{"id": "33432353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33432353", "title": "Al-Mardini", "text": "Al-Mardini\n\nAl-Mardini () denotes an origin from Mardin, Upper Mesopotamia.\n\nAl-Mardini may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "51769810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51769810", "title": "András Gáspár (general)", "text": "András Gáspár (general)\n\nAndrás Gáspár (23 November 1804 – 5 August 1884) was a Hungarian general who fought in the Hungarian War of Independence of 1848–1849.\n\nHe was born in a poor bourgeois family. His father was a bootmaker. He finished grammar school in his home town. From 1821 he is ranker, in 1847 is chief captain in the IXth Hussar regiment.\n\nFrom September 1848 he participated in the fights against Josip Jelačić. From 8 (16) October he was major, division commander in the regiments which joined the Hungarian side. From 26 November 1848 he was the commander of the IX. Hussar Regiment. From 5 January 1849 he was brigadier, from 18 February commander of a division in the Army of the Northern Danube led by Artúr Görgei. For his victory in the Battle of Hatvan, he received the title of general and the III. Class Hungarian Military Decoration. His decision to not to attack with his army corps the Austrians in the Battle of Isaszeg, was considered a big mistake, which could been bring the destruction of the united Habsburg forces in Hungary under the lead of Marshall Alfred I, Prince of Windisch-Grätz. He took an important role in the victory in the Battle of Nagysalló. But being against the Hungarian Declaration of Independence of 14 April 1849, he asked to go in permission, and never came back in the Hungarian army.\n\nAfter Hungary's Surrender at Világos in front of the Russian troops, and the end of the Hungarian War of Independence, he was sentenced to 10 years in prison by the Austrian authorities, but in 1850 he was pardoned. He became postmaster in Bihar. Between 1868–1875 he was a parliamentarian in the House of Representatives, than was elected as president of the Central Honvéd Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "395513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=395513", "title": "Annie Oakley", "text": "Annie Oakley\n\nAnnie Oakley (born Phoebe Ann Mosey; August 13, 1860 – November 3, 1926) was an American sharpshooter and exhibition shooter. Her amazing talent first came to light when at age 15 she won a shooting match against traveling-show marksman Frank E. Butler, whom she later married. The couple joined \"Buffalo Bill's Wild West\" show a few years later. Oakley became a renowned international star, performing before royalty and heads of state.\n\nOakley also was variously known as \"Miss Annie Oakley\", \"Little Sure Shot\", \"Little Miss Sure Shot\", \"Watanya Cicilla\", \"Phoebe Anne Oakley\", \"Mrs. Annie Oakley\", \"Mrs. Annie Butler\", and \"Mrs. Frank Butler\". Her death certificate gives her name as \"Annie Oakley Butler\".\n\nAnnie Oakley was born Phoebe Ann (Annie) Mosey on August 13, 1860, in a log cabin less than northwest of Woodland, now Willowdell, in Darke County, Ohio, a rural western border county of Ohio. Her birthplace is about five miles east of North Star. There is a stone-mounted plaque in the vicinity of the site, which was placed by the Annie Oakley Committee in 1981, 121 years after her birth.\n\nAnnie's parents were Quakers of English descent from Hollidaysburg, Blair County, Pennsylvania: Susan Wise, age 18, and Jacob Mosey, born 1799, age 49, married in 1848. They moved to a rented farm (later purchased with a mortgage) in Patterson Township, Darke County, Ohio, sometime around 1855.\n\nBorn in 1860, Annie was the sixth of Jacob and Susan's nine children, and the fifth of the seven surviving. Her siblings were Mary Jane (1851–1867), Lydia (1852–1882), Elizabeth (1855–1881), Sarah Ellen (1857–1939), Catherine (1859–1859), John (1861–1949), Hulda (1864–1934) and a stillborn infant brother in 1865. Annie's father, who had fought in the War of 1812, became an invalid from hypothermia during a blizzard in late 1865 and died of pneumonia in early 1866 at age 66. Her mother later married Daniel Brumbaugh, had one more child, Emily (1868–1937), and was widowed for a second time.\n\nBecause of poverty following the death of her father, Annie did not regularly attend school as a child, although she did attend later in childhood and in adulthood. On March 15, 1870, at age nine, she was admitted to the Darke County Infirmary along with her sister Sarah Ellen. According to her autobiography, she was put in the care of the infirmary's superintendent, Samuel Crawford Edington, and his wife Nancy, who taught her to sew and decorate. Beginning in the spring of 1870, she was \"bound out\" to a local family to help care for their infant son, on the false promise of fifty cents a week and an education. The couple had originally wanted someone who could pump water, cook, and who was bigger. She spent about two years in near slavery to them, enduring mental and physical abuse. One time, the wife put Annie out in the freezing cold without shoes, as a punishment because she had fallen asleep over some darning. Annie referred to them as \"the wolves\". Even in her autobiography, she never revealed the couple's real names.\n\nAccording to biographer Glenda Riley, \"the wolves\" could have been the Studabaker family, but the 1870 U.S. Census suggests they were the Abram Boose family of neighboring Preble County. Around the spring of 1872, Annie ran away from \"the wolves\". According to biographer Shirl Kasper, it was only at this point that Annie met and lived with the Edingtons, returning to her mother's home around the age of 15. Annie's mother married a third time, to Joseph Shaw, on October 25, 1874.\n\nAnnie began trapping before the age of seven, and shooting and hunting by age eight, to support her siblings and her widowed mother. She sold the hunted game to locals in Greenville, such as shopkeepers Charles and G. Anthony Katzenberger, who shipped it to hotels in Cincinnati and other cities. She also sold the game to restaurants and hotels in northern Ohio. Her skill paid off the mortgage on her mother's farm when Annie was 15.\n\nAnnie soon became well known throughout the region. On Thanksgiving Day 1875, the Baughman & Butler shooting act was being performed in Cincinnati. Traveling show marksman and former dog trainer Frank E. Butler (1847–1926), an Irish immigrant, placed a $100 bet per side () with Cincinnati hotel owner Jack Frost that Butler could beat any local fancy shooter. The hotelier arranged a shooting match between Butler and the 15-year-old Annie, saying, \"The last opponent Butler expected was a five-foot-tall 15-year-old girl named Annie.\" After missing on his 25th shot, Butler lost the match and the bet. Another account says that Butler hit on his last shot, but the bird fell dead about two feet beyond the boundary line. He soon began courting Annie and they married. They did not have children.\n\nAccording to a modern-day account in \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\", it is possible that the shooting match may have taken place in 1881 and not 1875. It appears the time of the event was never recorded. Biographer Shirl Kasper states the shooting match took place in the spring of 1881 near Greenville, possibly in North Star as mentioned by Butler during interviews in 1903 and 1924. Other sources seem to coincide with the North Fairmount location near Cincinnati if the event occurred in 1881. The Annie Oakley Center Foundation mentions Oakley visiting her married sister Lydia Stein at her home near Cincinnati in 1875. That information is incorrect as Lydia didn't marry Joseph C. Stein until March 19, 1877. Although speculation, it is most likely that Oakley and her mother visited Lydia in 1881 as she was seriously ill from tuberculosis. The Bevis House hotel was still being operated by Martin Bevis and W. H. Ridenour in 1875. It opened around 1860 after the building was previously used as a pork packaging facility. Jack Frost didn't obtain management of the hotel until 1879. The Baughman & Butler shooting act first appeared on the pages of \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\" in 1880. They signed with Sells Brothers Circus in 1881 and made an appearance at the Coliseum Opera House later that year.\n\nRegardless of the actual date of the shooting match, Oakley and Butler were married a year afterward. A certificate on file with the Archives of Ontario, Registration Number 49594, reports that Butler and Oakley were wed on June 20, 1882, in Windsor, Ontario. Many sources say the marriage took place on August 23, 1876, in Cincinnati, but no recorded certificate validates that date. A possible reason for the contradictory dates is that Butler's divorce from his first wife, Henrietta Saunders, was not yet final in 1876. An 1880 U.S. Federal Census record shows Saunders as married. Sources mentioning Butler's first wife as Elizabeth are inaccurate; Elizabeth was his granddaughter, her father being Edward F. Butler. Throughout Oakley's show-business career, the public was often led to believe that she was five to six years younger than she was. The later marriage date would have better supported her fictional age.\n\nAnnie and Frank Butler lived in Cincinnati for a time. Oakley, the stage name she adopted when she and Frank began performing together, is believed to have been taken from the city's neighborhood of Oakley, where they resided. Some people believe she took on the name because that was the name of the man who had paid her train fare when she was a child.\n\nThey joined \"Buffalo Bill's Wild West\" in 1885. At five feet tall, Oakley was given the nickname of \"Watanya Cicilla\" by fellow performer Sitting Bull, rendered \"Little Sure Shot\" in the public advertisements.\n\nDuring her first engagement with the Buffalo Bill show, Oakley experienced a tense professional rivalry with rifle sharpshooter Lillian Smith. Smith was eleven years younger than Oakley, age 15 at the time she joined the show in 1886, which may have been a primary reason for Oakley to alter her actual age in later years due to Smith's press coverage becoming as favorable as hers. Oakley temporarily left the Buffalo Bill show but returned two years later, after Smith departed, in time for the Paris Exposition of 1889. This three-year tour only cemented Oakley as America's first female star. She earned more than any other performer in the show, except for \"Buffalo Bill\" Cody himself. She also performed in many shows on the side for extra income.\n\nIn Europe, she performed for Queen Victoria of the United Kingdom, King Umberto I of Italy, President Marie François Sadi Carnot of France and other crowned heads of state. Oakley supposedly shot the ashes off a cigarette held by the newly crowned German Kaiser Wilhelm II at his request.\n\nFrom 1892 to 1904, Oakley and Butler made their home in Nutley, New Jersey.\n\nOakley promoted the service of women in combat operations for the United States armed forces. She wrote a letter to President William McKinley on April 5, 1898, \"offering the government the services of a company of 50 'lady sharpshooters' who would provide their own arms and ammunition should the U.S. go to war with Spain.\"\n\nThe Spanish–American War did occur, but Oakley's offer was not accepted. Theodore Roosevelt, did, however, name his volunteer cavalry the \"Rough Riders\" after the \"Buffalo Bill's Wild West and Congress of Rough Riders of the World\" where Oakley was a major star.\n\nThe same year that McKinley was fatally shot by an assassin, 1901, Oakley was also badly injured in a train accident, but recovered after temporary paralysis and five spinal operations. She left the Buffalo Bill show and in 1902 began a less taxing acting career in a stage play written especially for her, \"The Western Girl\". Oakley played the role of Nancy Berry who used a pistol, a rifle and rope to outsmart a group of outlaws.\n\nThroughout her career, it is believed that Oakley taught more than 15,000 women how to use a gun. Oakley believed strongly that it was crucial for women to learn how to use a gun, as not only a form of physical and mental exercise, but also to defend themselves. She said: \"I would like to see every woman know how to handle guns as naturally as they know how to handle babies.\"\n\nBuffalo Bill was friends with Thomas Edison, and Edison built the world's largest electrical power plant at the time for the \"Wild West Show\". Buffalo Bill and 15 of his show Indians appeared in two Kinetoscopes filmed September 24, 1894.\n\nIn 1894, Oakley and Butler performed in Edison's Kinetoscope film \"The \"Little Sure Shot of the Wild West,\" an exhibition of rifle shooting at glass balls, etc.\" which was filmed November 1, 1894 in Edison's Black Maria studio by William Heise. It was the eleventh film made after commercial showings began on April 14, 1894.\n\nBiographers, such as Shirl Kasper, repeat Oakley's own story about her very first shot at the age of eight. \"I saw a squirrel run down over the grass in front of the house, through the orchard and stop on a fence to get a hickory nut.\" Taking a rifle from the house, she fired at the squirrel, writing later that, \"It was a wonderful shot, going right through the head from side to side\".\nThe \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" notes that:Oakley never failed to delight her audiences, and her feats of marksmanship were truly incredible. At 30 paces she could split a playing card held edge-on, she hit dimes tossed into the air, she shot cigarettes from her husband's lips, and, a playing card being thrown into the air, she riddled it before it touched the ground.\nR. A. Koestler-Grack reports that, on March 19, 1884, she was being watched by Chief Sitting Bull when:Oakley playfully skipped on stage, lifted her rifle, and aimed the barrel at a burning candle. In one shot, she snuffed out the flame with a whizzing bullet. Sitting Bull watched her knock corks off of bottles and slice through a cigar Butler held in his teeth.\nIn 1904, sensational cocaine prohibition stories were selling well. Newspaper magnate William Randolph Hearst published a false story that Oakley had been arrested for stealing to support a cocaine habit. The woman actually arrested was a burlesque performer who told Chicago police that her name was Annie Oakley.\n\nMost of the newspapers that printed the story had relied on the Hearst article, and they immediately retracted it with apologies upon learning of the libelous error. Hearst, however, tried to avoid paying the anticipated court judgments of $20,000 (equivalent to $ in 2017) by sending an investigator to Darke County, Ohio with the intent of collecting reputation-smearing gossip from Oakley's past. The investigator found nothing.\n\nOakley spent much of the next six years winning 54 of 55 libel lawsuits against newspapers. She collected less in judgments than the total of her legal expenses.\n\nIn 1912, the Butlers built a brick ranch-style house in Cambridge, Maryland. It is known as the Annie Oakley House and was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1996. In 1917, they moved to North Carolina and returned to public life.\n\nShe continued to set records into her sixties, and also engaged in extensive philanthropy for women's rights and other causes, including the support of young women she knew. She embarked on a comeback and intended to star in a feature-length silent movie. She hit 100 clay targets in a row from at age 62 in a 1922 shooting contest in Pinehurst, North Carolina.\n\nIn late 1922, the couple were in a car accident that forced her to wear a steel brace on her right leg. She eventually performed again after more than a year of recovery, and she set records in 1924.\n\nHer health declined in 1925 and she died of pernicious anemia in Greenville, Ohio at the age of 66 on November 3, 1926. Her body was cremated in Cincinnati two days later and the ashes buried at Brock Cemetery, near Greenville.\n\nButler was so grieved by her death, according to B. Haugen, that he stopped eating and died 18 days later in Michigan, and his body was buried next to Oakley's ashes. Kasper reports that the death certificate said that Butler died of \"senility\". One rumor claims that Oakley's ashes were placed in one of her prized trophies and laid next to Butler's body in his coffin prior to burial. Both body and ashes were interred in the cemetery on Thanksgiving Day, November 25, 1926.\n\nAfter her death, her incomplete autobiography was given to stage comedian Fred Stone, and it was discovered that her entire fortune had been spent on her family and her charities.\n\nA vast collection of Oakley's personal possessions, performance memorabilia, and firearms are on permanent exhibit in the Garst Museum and the National Annie Oakley Center in Greenville, Ohio. She has been inducted into the Trapshooting Hall of Fame, the National Cowgirl Museum and Hall of Fame in Fort Worth, Texas, the National Women's Hall of Fame, the Ohio Women's Hall of Fame, and the New Jersey Hall of Fame.\n\nThere are a number of variations given for Oakley's family name, Mosey. Many biographers and other references give the name as \"Moses\". Although the 1860 U.S. Census shows the family name as \"Mauzy\", this is considered an error introduced by the census taker. Oakley's name appears as \"Ann Mosey\" in the 1870 U.S. Census and \"Mosey\" is engraved on her father's headstone and appears in his military record; \"Mosey\" is the official spelling by the Annie Oakley Foundation, maintained by her living relatives. The spelling \"Mosie\" has also appeared.\n\nAccording to Kasper, Oakley insisted that her family name be spelled \"Mozee\", leading to arguments with her brother John. Kasper speculates that Oakley may have considered \"Mozee\" to be a more phonetic spelling. There is also popular speculation that young Oakley had been teased about her name by other children.\n\nPrior to their double wedding in March 1884, both Oakley's brother John and one of her sisters, Hulda, changed their surnames to \"Moses\".\n\nDuring her lifetime, the theatre business began referring to complimentary tickets as \"Annie Oakleys\". Such tickets traditionally have holes punched into them (to prevent them from being resold), reminiscent of the playing cards Oakley shot through during her sharpshooting act.\n\n\nOakley's worldwide stardom as a sharpshooter enabled her to earn more money than most of the other performers in the Buffalo Bill show. She did not forget her roots after gaining financial and economic power. She and Butler together often donated to charitable organizations for orphans. Beyond her monetary influence, she proved to be a great influence on women.\n\nOakley urged that women serve in war, though President McKinley rejected her offer of woman sharpshooters for service in the Spanish–American War. Beyond this offer to the president, Oakley believed that women should learn to use a gun for the empowering image that it gave. Laura Browder discusses how Oakley's stardom gave hope to women and youth in \"Her Best Shot: Women and Guns In America\". Oakley pressed for women to be independent and educated. She was a key influence in the creation of the image of the American cowgirl. Through this image, she provided substantial evidence that women are as capable as men when offered the opportunity to prove themselves.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22826909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22826909", "title": "Anton Salonen incident", "text": "Anton Salonen incident\n\nAnton Salonen (, born 3 October 2003) is a child with Russian-Finnish dual citizenship involved in an international child custody dispute between his parents. The Finnish-born child was first abducted by his Estonian Russian mother in 2008 and taken to Russia. In turn the boy was abducted by his father in 2009 and smuggled back to Finland with the help of Finnish diplomats stationed at the Finnish consulate in Saint Petersburg. The incident has sparked a diplomatic row between Finland and Russia. The Finnish diplomat who helped to abduct the child was dismissed from the Finnish Consulate and Russia has declared him persona non grata.\n\nAnton's Finnish father and Russian Estonian mother met in Tallinn, Estonia in 1994 and married in 1997. The pair filed for legal divorce in 2002, which came into effect on 13 January 2003, but they continued to live together until 2005. Anton was born out of wedlock on 3 October 2003.\nAt birth Anton was legally entitled to Russian citizenship, but the citizenship was never registered. He was registered as a Finnish citizen after the Finnish father's paternity had been established. His mother gained Finnish citizenship via naturalisation after the birth. After the divorce the parents had joint custody.\n\nFrom a previous marriage of his mother, Anton has an older, 19-year-old brother, whom she left in Finland.\n\nAnton's mother left Finland with Anton without the consent of the father on 5 March 2008. The Russian Embassy in Finland assisted the mother with the Russian visa application. The signature of the father is presumed to have been forged on the application.\n\nThe 65-year-old father blames a religious organization near the Russian Orthodox Church in Finland for the abduction, calling the Memorial Society of Saint Seraphim of Sarov () a sect. The lower court in Tampere ordered that the mother be detained on suspicion of child abduction. The order is only effective inside the European Union. Russia is not a signatory of the Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction. The court also gave sole custody of the child to the father. In Russia Anton was granted Russian citizenship based on information provided by the mother. According to Uusi Suomi this sort of citizenship is normally granted in months, not in days.\n\nAfter locating the child and mother in Balakhna near Nizhny Novgorod the father initiated legal proceedings in Russia to regain custody and revoke the Russian citizenship. On 20 November 2008, the Balakhna City Court revoked Anton's Russian citizenship because his mother had presented false information for registration of citizenship. On 17 March 2009, the judicial board on civil cases of the Nizhny Novgorod regional court upheld the decision. After the decision, the father came to Russia to take Anton back to Finland.\n\nRussian online newspaper Grani.ru claimed that in April 2009 Anton was forcibly taken from his mother by his father outside her home on Ryazanova Street. The press service of Russia's Investigation Committee alleges that on 12 April 2009, the father, acting in conspiracy with persons unknown, attacked the mother and retrieved Anton. After allegedly being prevented from leaving Russia, the father and son took refuge at a vacant apartment of the Finnish Consulate-General in Saint Petersburg.\n\nThe Russian authorities allegedly ignored the earlier Russian court decision and Anton's Russian citizenship was expeditiously re-instated on May 7. One day later, on 8 May, Anton was smuggled to Finland in the closed trunk of a diplomatic car by the legal consul at the Saint Petersburg consulate, Simo Pietiläinen.\n\nThe story was revealed on May 14 by the Finnish scandal paper \"7 päivää\" causing a diplomatic incident. Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov called his Finnish counterpart Alexander Stubb to protest and to demand an explanation. This was followed by a formal complaint. The Russian Foreign Ministry accused Finland of a blatant violation of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, which states that diplomats should strictly observe the laws of the host country. The formal complaint was followed by a formal diplomatic note on May 20. Diplomat Pietiläinen, who helped take Anton out of Russia, was dismissed from the Finnish Consulate in St. Petersburg after the incident. Russia has declared Pietiläinen persona non grata.\n\nThe developments in St. Petersburg were closely followed by the Finnish government, including President Tarja Halonen, who condemned the behaviour of Simo Pietiläinen The actions of the Finnish diplomat involved were defended by Finnish Minister for Foreign Affairs Alexander Stubb, whilst Tarja Halonen has condemned them. President Halonen, Prime Minister Matti Vanhanen and foreign minister Stubb all denied having prior knowledge of the smuggling plan or the involvement of Finnish diplomats in it.\n\nThere is a conflict of law between Finland and Russia. It is a criminal offense under Finish law for the Russian mother to take her child to Russia. It is a criminal offense under Russian law for the Finnish diplomat to take the same child from Russia back to Finland. This is why the Finnish diplomat was declared persona non grata. This is why the Russian mother faces parental abduction criminal charges in Finland.\n\nThe incident has been widely covered in Finnish and Russian media in what some commentators have described as a media war. The Russian media have speculated that the incident will have a negative effect on Finland–Russia relations. The case has also been compared to that of Eliza André.\n\nThe Investigation Committee of the Russian Prosecutor's office has launched criminal proceedings against the father on suspicion of \"pre-meditated kidnapping of a person by an organized group\" under article 126 of the Russian Criminal Code.\n\nAnton's mother returned to Finland on 1 August 2009. She was arrested at the airport in the Tampere. A Finnish court considered the case of Anton's mother, and released her pending trial. However she was given a travel ban for the next 60 days. Through the Russian media, Johan Bäckman claimed that a Finnish police officer promised not to arrest Anton's mother, and furthermore the mother was allegedly arrested in Estonia's capital Tallinn. Bäckman was presented as one of the aides or lawyers of Rimma Salonen, while the trial lawyer is Heikki Lampela in Finland and Dmitry Glazov in Russia. Finnish media have reported some claims as a matter of inquiry.\n\nThe incident has been top television news in Russia. The main villains have been Anton's Finnish father and the Finnish diplomat Simo Pietiläinen. Johan Bäckman has had a central role as commentator about the incident in Russia and Finland. His comments and speculation have been published as such, without checkup, in many Russian media, such as Ria Novosti. Later Bäckman apologized his comments about the incident, but he has later recanted and is again arranging demonstrations against Paavo Salonen.\n\nThe Russian foreign ministry has made negative comments, and implied the negative effect of the incident to mutual relations between Russia and Finland.\n\nAccording to Finnish expert on Russia Ilmari Susiluoto, the case of Anton is part of the Kremlin public relations campaign. The Finns have too positive an image in Russia, and this does not fit the Kremlin's idea of the \"hostile outside world\".\n\nRimma Salonen was given a one to five year suspended sentence for kidnapping and child abduction on 13 October 2009 in käräjäoikeus (lower court). She also had to pay 20,000 euros for emotional distress to her son and almost 4,800 euros to Paavo Salonen. The next year, hovioikeus (the Finnish appeals court) upheld Salonen's suspended prison sentence. However, the court did lower the damages awarded Anton Salonen to 10,000 euros. The court also ordered her to pay 7,500 euros in legal fees for Anton and Paavo Salonen.\n\nIn May 2010, Russian Child Rights Ombudsman Pavel Astakhov accused the Finnish authorities of denying Anton the right to speak Russian. Astakhov also referred to statements of Johan Bäckman that Finnish authorities had also banned Anton from praying, being baptized, or wearing crosses. A Russian newspaper reported these claims and referred Anton's mother and Bäckman to the Finnish Anti-Fascist Committee.\n\nIn March 2011, Rimma Salonen announced she is a candidate for the 2011 Finnish parliamentary election for the Workers Party of Finland. She also represented the organization of Finnish Anti-Fascist Committee. Salonen got 16 votes.\n\nRussia joined the Hague Abduction Convention on 1 October 2011.\n\nIn April 2012 Rimma Salonen appealed to the Russian people and called for help because, according to her, Western authorities are stealing talented and unique Russian children to supplant Western children who are just robots and sex dolls.\n\nIn May 2013 Supreme Court of Finland decided not to give Rimma Salonen right to appeal for the ruling of Vaasa Hovrätt. This means Anton's father is his legal guardian as Vaasa Hovrätt ruled.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18235660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18235660", "title": "Bai Lichen", "text": "Bai Lichen\n\nBai Lichen (, Xiao'erjing: ; born January 1941) is a retired Chinese politician of Hui ethnicity, and the former chairman of Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region and the former president of All China Federation of Supply and Marketing Cooperatives. He was Vice Chairman of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) between 1998 and 2013.\n\nBorn in Lingyuan, Liaoning Province, Bai graduated from department of agricultural engineering of Shenyang Institute of Agriculture in 1964, majoring in agricultural mechanization. He joined the Communist Party of China in April 1971. From 1964 to 1968, he was a technician in the Institute of Agricultural Mechanization in Yingkou of Liaoning. He was then sent to work in rural areas. \n\nFrom 1972 to 1980, Bai was an official in the organization department of the Yingkou municipal party committee, and vice section chief of personnel bureau of Yingkou. In 1980, he was elevated to vice secretary and later, secretary of CPC committee in Suburbs District of Yingkou. In 1983, he became mayor and vice Party chief of Yingkou. In 1984, Bai was appointed as secretary of CPC Panjin municipal committee, and assistant to the Governor of Liaoning. In 1985, he was elevated to the Liaoning provincial party standing committee, and vice governor of Liaoning. In 1986, Bai was transferred to Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, and became Deputy Communist Party Secretary of Ningxia, and the acting chairman of Ningxia. He was confirmed as chairman of Ningxia in 1987, and served in this post for 10 years. \n\nIn 1997, Bai was appointed as the leader of the Party group of the All China Federation of Supply and Marketing Cooperatives. In 1998, he became the president of the Federation and was also elected as vice chairman of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference. \n\nBai was a member of 13th, 14th, 15th, 16th and 17th Central Committees of the Communist Party of China. He has also been the vice chairman of 9th to 11th CPPCC.\n"}
{"id": "14666638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14666638", "title": "Batman (The Dark Knight Returns)", "text": "Batman (The Dark Knight Returns)\n\nBatman (Bruce Wayne) is a fictional superhero and an alternative version of the DC Comics character of the same name. This version of Batman was created by Frank Miller and first appeared in \"The Dark Knight Returns\" #1 (February 1986). This satirical version of the character is regarded as an older, darker interpretation of the character who, after years of retirement, resumes his role as a vigilante and, eventually, a revolutionary freedom fighter.\n\nIn his introduction to \"The Dark Knight Returns\" #1, Frank Miller says that he got the idea for the character while going through a midlife crisis, while on the verge of turning 30. He later said that while he could tolerate the fact that his little brother was older than Spider-Man, the fact that he himself was getting older than Batman \"was something that needed to be stopped.\"\n\nAlthough \"All Star Batman and Robin the Boy Wonder\" is printed under the All Star DC Comics imprint, it takes place in its own continuity outside of Grant Morrison's \"All Star Superman\" canon. According to Miller, \"All Star Batman\" is the same version of his character set in the continuity of \"The Dark Knight Returns\" \"(DKR)\", \"\" \"(YO)\", \"The Dark Knight Strikes Again\" \"(DKSA)\", and \"\" and \"Dark Knight Returns: The Last Crusade\". The series has an abstract depiction of its historical setting, as the satirical nature of the books often requires the aesthetic setting to shift with modern times with each new title; \"The Dark Knight Returns\" retained its 1980s themes due to its commentary on Reagan-era politics, while the sequel more closely resembled Bush-era America and \"All Star Batman\" and \"The Master Race\" both resemble the nature of the contemporary \"digital age\". Out of all of the stories, \"Year One\" was the only one that also existed in the core DC continuity, until it was replaced by \"\".\n\nAt the end of the maxiseries \"52\", it is revealed that a new DC Multiverse of 52 different Earths now exists. The Dark Knight Universe \"(DKU)\" was formerly designated as \"Earth-31\", but it is not included amongst the current New 52 DC Multiverse and another alternate Earth has taken its place. It is unclear whether the Dark Knight Universe still occurs within the canonical New 52 DC multiverse, although the profiles of seven DC alternate Earths are still currently unknown according to the \"Multiversity\" handbook.\n\n\"Spawn/Batman\", which has Batman team up with Todd McFarlane's character Spawn, was released as a companion to \"The Dark Knight Returns\" and takes place in the same universe.\n\nThis version of Batman's character has varied throughout the course of his publication history. In \"\" and \"The Dark Knight Returns\", he is basically still the brooding, bitter vigilante from the mainstream comics, while in \"All Star Batman and Robin the Boy Wonder\" and \"The Dark Knight Strikes Again\", he has evolved into something of an antihero. In \"The Dark Knight Strikes Again\", his actions could at least be justified since he is fighting a high-stakes war against Lex Luthor and Brainiac's police-state regime, in which attempting to preserve life could be seen as a weakness. In \"All Star Batman and Robin the Boy Wonder\", however, he appears to brutalize criminals for the fun of it, and even goes as far as to berate and abuse the young Dick Grayson after kidnapping him after his parents died (though in this case, interior monologues show that he is in conflict with himself for these actions). At the end of \"The Dark Knight Strikes Again\", after Luthor and Brainiac have been defeated and the world now in the safe hands of Superman, Batman encounters Dick as the new \"Joker\" and kills him rather than try to rehabilitate him.\n\nMuch like the mainstream New Earth/Post-Crisis Batman, Miller's Batman begins his journey after his parents are murdered by Joe Chill. (However, in \"Dark Knight Returns\", it is hinted that he never found out who murdered his parents.) He travels the world in search of a means to fight crime, which include various forms of martial arts and forensic skills. After returning to Gotham City in his early twenties, Bruce takes up the mantle of the Batman. In his first few months, he exposes police corruption in the Gotham City Police Department, unsettles the empire of crime lord Carmine Falcone, and gains an ally in Lieutenant James Gordon. At some unspecified point, shortly after the events of \"Year One\", he stops The Joker from poisoning Gotham's water supply. Also around this time, he uses the Gotham sewers as his first Batcave to prove to himself that he doesn't need his wealth, and learns Catwoman's identity.\n\nIn the second year of his career, Batman takes on a protégé in young acrobat Dick Grayson, whose parents are killed by a hitman upon The Joker's orders. Batman accepts Dick into his inner circle, and he debuts as Robin. It is during this time that he meets Justice League of America (JLA) members Superman and Hal Jordan, to whom he shows complete disrespect. During this time, Bruce Wayne grows to love being Batman and constantly refers to himself as \"the Goddamn Batman\". His own inexperience makes him reckless and ruthless towards criminals, however, and he treats Dick with nothing short of abuse and contempt, forcing him to live uncomfortably in the Batcave and chastising Alfred Pennyworth for showing him kindness.\n\nFifteen years prior to the events of \"DKR\", Batman fires Dick (the reason is unknown, though Batman states it was for \"cowardice and incompetence\") and replaces him with Jason Todd. Some time later, Bruce is involved in riots, during which he modifies the Batmobile to its tank-like structure. Batman later becomes a member of the JLA and seems to develops a strong friendship with Hal Jordan (Green Lantern), similar to his friendship with Superman in the Mainstream DC Universe, twelve years before \"DKR\".\n\nBatman apprehends Two-Face one last time before his retirement. Two-Face's last crime is the kidnapping of Siamese twins, and the JLA is pressured into disbanding by political correctness groups. While most members of the JLA retire, Superman goes to work for the government, and Batman continues to fight crime in Gotham. Batman's best friend in the superhero community, Hal Jordan, retires to space, though Batman begs him to stay.\n\nArkham Asylum for the Criminally Insane becomes Arkham Home for the Emotionally Troubled, due to the wave of political correctness. Batman and Robin investigate a strange blackmail case involving Poison Ivy, during which Bruce becomes injured and Jason becomes increasingly violent and unpredictable. The Joker escapes Arkham soon after. Jason, upset that Batman is not pursuing the Joker after he escaped, goes to where the Joker is staying and tries to break in. He is killed by the Joker's henchmen, who were waiting outside the door before he entered. Ten years before \"DKR\", Batman retires over the burden of Jason's death. According to Superman, the other superheroes \"almost threw a party.\" The Joker enters a catatonic state for about ten years due to Batman's disappearance.\n\nSeven years before \"DKR\", Bruce crosses paths with Dick again, but it ends badly and they part ways on bad terms. Over the next decade, Bruce takes to drinking heavily and engaging in near-suicidal risk-taking. Despite maintaining his image as a playboy, he invests a considerable amount in the rehabilitation of Harvey Dent, the former Two-Face. Following an \"anniversary\" of Batman's last crusade with Jim Gordon, a 55-year-old Bruce is almost mugged by a group of street hoods. He defends himself, realizing that he cannot ignore the rising wave of crime.\n\nA new teenage gang called \"The Mutants\" begins to terrorize the police and citizens of Gotham. Bruce begins suffering night terrors and sleepwalking which ends in his waking in the Batcave. After watching \"The Mark of Zorro\" and reliving the murders of his parents (who had taken him to see the film on the night they were killed), he dons the cape and cowl once more. He manages to save Gotham from Two-Face and the Mutant gang, and takes on a new sidekick — Carrie Kelley, the new Robin. When the Joker reappears and kills hundreds of people, Batman fights him one last time, but the Joker kills himself and Batman is framed for his murder. Superman is sent by the government to stop Batman's increasingly violent style of vigilantism. Batman confronts the Man of Steel with a variety of weapons, including several missiles and a sonic gun. Batman fights Superman to what appears to be his own death, but not before beating Superman. It is later revealed that he was induced to catatonia but revived to lead an underground subversive movement alongside Carrie, Green Arrow and the Mutants (renamed as the Sons of Batman).\n\nIn the years after going underground, Bruce Wayne and Carrie (now known as Catgirl) train an army of \"Batboys\" to save the world from a \"police-state\" dictatorship led by Lex Luthor. In a series of raids on government facilities, Batman's soldiers release from captivity other superheroes including: the Atom (trapped for years in a petri dish), Flash (forced to run on a treadmill to provide America with free power), and Plastic Man (now insane and trapped in Arkham Asylum). Elongated Man is recruited from his job as a commercial spokesman and Green Arrow is working with Batman. Luthor responds by sending a genetically-superpowered man who resembles the Joker to kill as many superheroes as possible. Batman, with help from his allies, manages to take Luthor down, and Luthor is killed by the son of Hawkman, who had been killed earlier on by Luthor.\n\nAs he returns home, Batman receives a communication from Carrie, who is being attacked by the new Joker. Batman rushes to her aid and recognises the man as Dick, who has been genetically manipulated to possess a powerful healing factor, but has been driven insane. Batman shows nothing but contempt for his former sidekick and plans his death the moment they face each other. Batman hurls himself and Dick into a miles-deep crevasse filled with lava and blows up the entire cave, igniting an underground volcano and destroying everything. Dick falls into the lava and is killed, but Batman is saved by Superman at the last moment and brought to Carrie in the Batmobile.\n\n"}
{"id": "8533908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8533908", "title": "Bobby Clarke", "text": "Bobby Clarke\n\nRobert Earle Clarke (born August 13, 1949), also known as Bob Clarke (since retirement as a player) and Bobby Clarke (while active as a player), is a Canadian former professional ice hockey centre who played his entire 15-year National Hockey League (NHL) career with the Philadelphia Flyers and is currently an executive with the team. Clarke is widely acknowledged as being one of the greatest hockey players and captains of all time. He was captain of the Flyers from 1973 to 1979, winning the Stanley Cup with them in both 1974 and 1975. He was again captain of the Flyers from 1982 to 1984 before retiring. A 3-time Hart Trophy winner and 1987 Hockey Hall of Fame inductee, Clarke was rated number 24 on The Hockey News' list of \"The Top 100 NHL Players of All-Time\" in 1998. In 2017 Clarke was named one of the '100 Greatest NHL Players' in history.\n\nClarke had three 100-point seasons, twice leading the league in assists, and played in eight NHL All-Star Games. He also won the Frank J. Selke Trophy in 1983, as the league's best defensive forward.\n\nUpon retiring at the end of the 1983–84 season with 358 goals and 852 assists for a total of 1,210 points in 1,144 career games, he immediately became general manager of the Flyers. He spent 19 of the following 23 seasons as a general manager of the Flyers, also briefly serving as general manager of the Minnesota North Stars and Florida Panthers, and reached the Stanley Cup Finals three times with the Flyers and once with Minnesota. His time as an NHL general manager had its share of controversy, perhaps none greater than the rift between him and star player Eric Lindros during the late 1990s and early 2000s. He resigned from the general manager position less than a month into the 2006–07 season and is currently the Flyers' senior vice president.\n\nThe image of Clarke, with a toothless grin, embracing the Stanley Cup and winking following the Flyers' victory in the 1975 Stanley Cup Finals is considered one of the most iconic and famous photos in the history of the sport of hockey.\n\nBorn in the small northern Manitoban mining town of Flin Flon, Clarke began playing organized hockey when he was eight years old. Around the time he was 12 or 13 years old, he learned he had type 1 diabetes. Even though he progressed into a highly touted prospect playing for the Flin Flon Bombers, leading the league in which the Bombers played in scoring in each of his last three years of junior hockey, NHL teams feared Clarke would never be able to play in the NHL because of his diabetes. Bombers coach Pat Ginnell took Clarke to the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota following the 1967–68 season and the doctors concluded that as long as he took care of himself he could play professionally. Ginnell asked the doctors to write that statement down and when NHL scouts came to watch the Bombers play during the 1968–69 season, Ginnell showed them the doctor's verdict.\n\nEven with such assurances Clarke fell to the second round of the 1969 NHL Amateur Draft and was finally selected by the Philadelphia Flyers 17th overall. After Gerry Melnyk, a scout and administrative assistant with the Flyers, tried to convince general manager Bud Poile to draft Clarke with their first-round pick and failed — Poile drafted Bob Currier instead, a player who retired five years later and, ironically, never played a game in the NHL — Melnyk called a diabetes specialist in Philadelphia who said Clarke would be fine if he looked after his health. Melnyk then successfully convinced Poile to draft Clarke when the Flyers second-round pick came around. The Detroit Red Wings and Montreal Canadiens immediately offered the Flyers a deal for Clarke, Detroit offering two veteran players and Montreal offering a deal \"Flyers management could hardly refuse.\" The Flyers refused both offers and made it clear Clarke was not for sale.\n\nWearing #16, Clarke made his NHL debut on October 11, 1969, against the Minnesota North Stars. He recorded his first point on October 22 against the Toronto Maple Leafs, an assist on Lew Morrison's 3rd period goal, and he scored his first goal on October 30 against the New York Rangers, beating Rangers goaltender Ed Giacomin 16:36 into the 3rd period. Clarke played the entire 76-game schedule his rookie season and recorded 46 points (15 goals, 31 assists) while earning a trip to the NHL All-Star Game. He was also named NHL Rookie of the Year by The Sporting News, and finished fourth in voting for the Calder Memorial Trophy. Clarke led the Flyers in scoring during his sophomore season, 1970–71, with 27 goals and 36 assists for a total of 63 points in 77 games. His efforts helped the Flyers make the playoffs, but Clarke was held scoreless in his first playoff action and the Flyers lost in four games to the Chicago Black Hawks.\n\nA tooth abscess was the cause of a slow start to the 1971–72 season; 20 pounds underweight, Clarke only managed 5 goals and 11 assists 31 games into the season. He rebounded over the final 47 games, scoring 30 goals and 35 assists and bringing his totals to 35 goals and 46 assists. His dedication was rewarded when he became the first Flyer to win a major NHL award, the Bill Masterton Memorial Trophy, and the Flyers re-signed him to a five-year contract worth $100,000 per season, a raise of $75,000 per season.\n\nA few months following his strong play during the Summit Series for Team Canada, Clarke was named the Flyers' captain at age 23, the youngest to ever assume that role in NHL history at the time. As leader of the brawling Broad Street Bullies, Clarke became the first player from an expansion team to score more than 100 points in a season, 104 points (37 goals, 67 assists) total. Facing the Minnesota North Stars in the first round, the Flyers and Clarke received a scare, as he was hit in the eye with a stick which broke his contact lens and was rushed to the hospital. After removing parts of his broken contact from under the eye, Clarke returned to the lineup the next game despite having suffered a scratched cornea, and the Flyers won their first playoff series. The Flyers lost to the Montreal Canadiens during the next round, but Clarke was later awarded the Hart Memorial Trophy as the league's MVP and the Lester B. Pearson Award as the league's most outstanding player as voted by the league's players.\n\nClarke's production fell to 87 points in 77 games during the 1973–74 regular season, but his leadership and Bernie Parent's stellar goaltending led the Flyers to the second best record in the league and to the Stanley Cup Finals to play the team with the best record, the Boston Bruins. After losing Game 1, Clarke scored arguably the biggest goal of his career in overtime of Game 2, putting a rebound shot in over Bruins goaltender Gilles Gilbert. The Flyers won three of the next four games and became the first expansion team to win the Stanley Cup. Clarke played a key role in the Finals in countering Bruins' star players, winning 48 of the 66 face-offs against Phil Esposito, and neutralizing Bobby Orr by chasing him down. The Stanley Cup winning goal in game six was scored after a fight between Clarke and Orr that sent both players to the penalty box.\n\nClarke set the NHL record, at the time, for most assists by a centreman with 89 during the 1974–75 season on his way to a 116-point season. He finished second in the league in plus-minus rating with a plus 79, which illustrates his strong two-way play. The Flyers returned to the Stanley Cup Finals and defeated the Buffalo Sabres in six games, repeating as Stanley Cup champions. In addition to the second championship, Clarke was awarded the Hart Trophy for the second time, while being voted to the league's First All-Star Team.\n\n1975–76 was a record breaking season for Clarke. Playing on the LCB line with Reggie Leach and Bill Barber, the trio set a record for most goals by a line with 141. He also tied his mark of the previous season with 89 assists and set a personal best and franchise record for most points in a single season with 119 (later broken by Mark Recchi in 1992–93). He also led the league in plus-minus rating with a plus 83. The Flyers, without Parent and Rick MacLeish, made their third straight Finals appearance. However, Montreal coach Scotty Bowman's strategy successful prevented Clarke's line from scoring and the Flyers were swept in four straight games. Clarke was awarded his third Hart Trophy and named to the NHL First All-Star team. Clarke's production would drop off over the next few seasons; in fact, his point total fell six seasons in a row. But the Flyers remained contenders, reaching the semifinals and losing to Boston in 1976–77 and 1977–78.\n\nAfter a quarterfinal loss to the Rangers in 1978–79, Clarke was named an assistant coach. In order to become an assistant he had to give up the captaincy due to NHL rules, so Mel Bridgman was named the 4th captain in Flyers history. His first season as a playing assistant coach, 1979–80, saw the Flyers go on an undefeated streak of 35 games, not only the longest in NHL history, but the longest in North American professional sports history. The Flyers made it to the Stanley Cup Finals before losing to the New York Islanders in six games. During the playoffs, Clarke scored 8 goals and assisted on 12 others in 19 games, all 8 goals coming on the power play. Following the playoffs, Clarke was awarded the Lester Patrick Trophy along with Flyers owner Ed Snider and former Flyers coach Fred Shero.\n\nClarke wore the number 16 throughout his entire NHL career except for two games during the season. Prior to a road game on February 27, 1981, Clarke's jersey was stolen. Clarke wore the only other jersey available, number 36, in the next two games. A month later, Clarke hit a personal milestone in memorable fashion. On March 19 during a game against the Boston Bruins, a Reggie Leach slapshot struck Clarke. After leaving the ice, he re-appeared moments later stitched up and with his jersey covered in blood. 31 seconds into the third period Clarke beat Bruins goalie Marco Baron for his 19th goal of the season and his 1000th career point.\n\nDespite his diabetes and hard-nosed play, Clarke proved to be remarkably durable. A broken foot suffered during the 1981–82 season limited him to 62 games, the only time in his career he played fewer than 70 games in a season. No longer an assistant coach, Clarke reassumed the captaincy from Bill Barber during . He skated in his 1000th career game on October 23, 1982, against the Pittsburgh Penguins. Clarke had his best season since 1977–78, scoring 85 points in 80 games. He also won the Frank J. Selke Trophy, given annually to the league's best defensive forward. After the Flyers were eliminated from the playoffs in the first round for the third straight season in and the general manager position opened up after Bob McCammon resigned, Clarke retired on May 15, 1984, to become the general manager of the Flyers.\n\nOn January 14, 2017, Clarke played in the Flyers' 50th anniversary alumni game against the alumni of the Pittsburgh Penguins, where he combined with his longtime linemates, Bill Barber and Reggie Leach, which ended in a 3–3 tie before a sold out crowd of over 19,000 at the Wells Fargo Center. Prior to the game Clarke announced that it would be his last alumni game.\n\nClarke played for Team Canada three times during his career. He played a major role in defeating the Soviet Union during the Summit Series in 1972, captained the Canadian team to gold at the 1976 Canada Cup, and won a bronze medal at the 1982 World Championships. In addition, he led the Flyers to the only outright victory over the Soviet Union's best team, Soviet Red Army, during the 1976 Super Series, and took part in the 1979 Challenge Cup with the NHL All-Stars. After his playing career, he served as one of Canada's four general managers during the 1987 and 1991 Canada Cups and served as Canada's lone general manager during the 1998 Winter Olympics.\n\nComing off his third NHL season, Clarke was the last player Team Canada selected to play in the Summit Series. His line with Ron Ellis and Paul Henderson turned out to be Canada's best during the series, Clarke tallying two goals and four assists in the eight game series won by Canada as well as being awarded Team Canada MVP in game one of the series. Clarke's play earned the respect of many during the series, Henderson saying, \"The best thing that could have happened to Ronnie (Ellis) and me was to get this young kid making plays for us. He was terrific!\" Wayne Cashman would add, \"There were guys on Team Canada who took their game to new heights in that series. A perfect example would be Bobby Clarke.\" The Soviet team's assistant coach, Boris Kulagin, thought Clarke was Canada's best player. Clarke's strong play was largely attributed to the fact that, unlike many of the Canadian players, Clarke reported to training camp in top physical condition, as he had always followed a strict off-season training regimen. Though he earned much praise due to his play, he was also criticized for an incident during the sixth game which is often referred to as, \"The Slash.\"\n\nClarke's line played against the line of the Soviets' top player, Valeri Kharlamov, during the entire series. After being on the receiving end of some stick work from Kharlamov while going for the puck, Clarke caught up with Kharlamov and laid a two-handed slash across his ankle, breaking it in the process. Though Kharlamov finished the game, he missed the seventh game and was largely ineffective in the eighth. When asked about the slash years later, Clarke said, \"If I hadn't learned to lay on a two-hander once in a while, I'd never have left Flin Flon.\" 30 years after the series, Henderson criticized Clarke, calling the slash, \"the low point of the series.\" Clarke responded saying that he thought it was \"improper to criticize a teammate thirty years later,\" and that he did not \"understand why he would bring it up now.\" Henderson has since retracted his criticism. Kharlamov, prior to his death in 1981, said he thought Clarke was tasked with \"taking me out of the game.\" John Ferguson, Sr., an assistant coach with Team Canada in 1972, said, \"I called Clarke over to the bench, looked over at Kharlamov and said, 'I think he needs a tap on the ankle.' I didn't think twice about it. It was Us versus Them. And Kharlamov was killing us. I mean, somebody had to do it. And I sure wasn't going to ask Henderson.\" Clarke, however, does not recall Ferguson telling him this.\n\nNamed general manager of Team Canada on January 30, 1997, Clarke was tasked with picking which NHLers would compete for Canada at the 1998 Winter Olympics in Nagano, the first time NHLers would compete in the Olympics. A few of Clarke's choices were the source of some consternation, in particular omitting Mark Messier in favour of surprise selection Rob Zamuner and choosing 24-year-old Eric Lindros as the team's captain over the likes of Wayne Gretzky, Ray Bourque, and Steve Yzerman. Ranked number one going into the tournament, Team Canada played strongly until being stymied by Czech goaltender Dominik Hašek in the semifinals, losing in a shootout. They then lost 3–2 to Finland in the bronze medal match.\n\nFollowing his retirement, Clarke's first stint as Flyers general manager lasted six seasons and included two trips to the Stanley Cup Finals in 1985 and 1987. After making the playoffs in each of his first five seasons in the front office, the Flyers fell off during the 1989–90 season and missed the playoffs, resulting in his firing by Flyers President Jay Snider.\n\nClarke moved on to the Minnesota North Stars and spent two seasons as the North Stars general manager, one of which saw a surprise run to the Finals in 1991.\n\nLeaving Minnesota, Clarke returned to Philadelphia to assume the role of Senior Vice President during the 1992–93 season, and served as a mentor for young phenom Eric Lindros during his first season. Clarke moved on shortly after and took the general manager position with the expansion Florida Panthers, a team which set the expansion team record for wins and points during a season in 1993–94. He returned to the role of Flyers general manager prior to the 1994–95 season (Florida was compensated with cash and Philadelphia's second-round draft pick in the 1994 NHL Entry Draft), and he rebuilt the team into a Cup contender. During his second tenure as general manager of the Flyers, the team made the playoffs 11 seasons in a row but reached the Finals once (1997). Following a poor start to the 2006–07 season, Clarke resigned citing a possible burnout and a lack of desire. Clarke returned to the franchise on December 4, 2006, and was named Senior Vice President.\n\nClarke failed to win a Stanley Cup over the 22 seasons he was a general manager with Philadelphia, Minnesota, and Florida. During his 19 seasons as Flyers manager over two stints, the Flyers reached the Stanley Cup finals three times and amassed a regular season record of 714–443–199, but for one reason or another always came up short of a Cup title. Clarke's Flyers in 1985 and 1987 were considered underdogs to the powerhouse Edmonton Oilers, as were his North Stars to the Pittsburgh Penguins in 1991. In his second tenure as Flyers manager, the team lost in the postseason, frequently to lower-seeded teams. While goaltending was a strength during his first tenure with two Vezina Trophy winners between the pipes (Pelle Lindbergh and Ron Hextall), only Hextall in 1995, a combination of Hextall and Garth Snow in 1997, Brian Boucher in 2000, and Robert Esche in 2004 got the Flyers past the second round of the playoffs during his second stint. By contrast the New Jersey Devils, their Atlantic Division rivals, were stable in net with Martin Brodeur and beat the Flyers in the Conference Finals en route to Stanley Cups in 1995 and 2000.\n\nClarke received his harshest criticism after first round playoff exits, including a string of four in five years from 1998 to 2002, and several coaching changes. After Terry Murray was fired following the team's sweep in the 1997 Stanley Cup Finals (some suggested that Murray lost the players' respect by describing the 6-1 loss in game three as a \"choking situation\"), five more coaching changes were made in the next five years. Wayne Cashman, Murray's replacement, was replaced three-quarters of the way through the 1997–98, by Roger Neilson due to inconsistent team play. Some suggested Clarke's handling of Neilson, who took a medical leave in February 2000 to undergo cancer treatment and was replaced by Craig Ramsay, was disrespectful. Clarke explained \"The Neilson situation - Roger got cancer - that wasn't our fault. We didn't tell him to go get cancer. It's too bad that he did. We feel sorry for him, but then he went goofy on us.\" Ramsay guided the team to the Eastern Conference Finals in 2000, but he was fired after a subpar start in 2000-01, being replaced by Clarke's former linemate Bill Barber. Barber was named coach of the year for 2000-01, however under his watch the Flyers suffered two consecutive first round eliminations, as their 2001 playoffs ended with an 8-0 defeat to Buffalo in Game Six, and their offense was held to just two goals by Ottawa during the 2002 playoffs, and this led to calls for Clarke's dismissal after he fired Barber. Clarke hired Ken Hitchcock as head coach for the 2002-03 season and Hitchcock remained until Clarke's resignation four years later, guiding the team to the 2004 conference finals.\n\nFollowing the 2004–05 NHL lockout, Clarke signed 6'5\" defencemen Derian Hatcher and Mike Rathje to four-year and five-year contracts respectively. While the moves were initially praised and even led some to label the Flyers Cup favorites in 2005–06, some suggested Clarke could not compete in the new NHL after the team was eliminated in the first round of the playoffs by Buffalo, a smaller, quicker team that proved to be effective against such slower defencemen as Hatcher and Rathje. Such criticisms became louder after a poor start to the following season which led to his resignation.\n\nNothing was more controversial during Clarke's time as a general manager than his dispute with Eric Lindros and his parents, particularly his father Carl who was Eric's agent. The trouble started following the 1997–98 season while negotiating a new contract for Lindros. Clarke threatened to trade him, saying, \"If you want to be the highest-paid player in the game or close to it, you've got to play that way.\" While Lindros was not traded and he played well during the 1998–99 season, his season was cut short after sustaining a collapsed lung during a game on April 1 against the Nashville Predators. Lindros' parents criticized team trainer John Worley and claimed Clarke tried to kill their son by trying to put him on a plane back to Philadelphia, which would have been fatal given his condition.\n\nAfter Lindros criticized Worley in March 2000 for failing to diagnose a concussion (his second of the season), Clarke stripped Lindros of the role of team captain. A few weeks after suffering a third concussion during practice, Lindros returned to the Flyers lineup for Game 6 of the Eastern Conference Finals and sustained his fourth concussion of the season (his sixth in 27 months) during Game 7. Afterwards, Clarke said he did not dislike Eric, but he had a problem with his parents, saying, \"If he's going to come back, he can't have his dad calling us and telling us who to trade for and who he wants to play with Eric and who can't play with Eric.\" Lindros never played for the Flyers again, as he rejected the Flyers qualifying offer in the off-season and sat out the 2000–01 season. Lindros pushed for a trade to Toronto but that move fell apart at last minute when Clarke and Leafs manager Pat Quinn could not agree on terms. Clarke finally traded Lindros to the New York Rangers in August 2001. Following the trade, Clarke said, \"I don't give a crap whether he ever plays again or if I ever see him again. All he ever did was cause aggravation to our team.\"\n\nUpon Lindros' retirement in November 2007, Clarke stated that Lindros belonged in the Hockey Hall of Fame. \"Yes, based on his ability to play the game and based on his contributions as a player, I think you have to separate all the crap that went on. Particularly when he played for the Flyers, it was just outstanding, dominant hockey — the first of the huge, big men with small man's skill.\"\n\nLindros and Clarke both played for the Philadelphia Flyers Alumni during the 2012 Winter Classic Alumni Game on December 31, 2011. The opposing team was the New York Rangers Alumni. Both men acknowledged the game as an opportunity to mend fences.\n\n\"(T)his Alumni Game has provided an opportunity to rebuild ... once-burnt bridges. In recent years, Clarke has stated multiple times that he believes Lindros belongs in the Hall of Fame, and Lindros has acknowledged his many disagreements with Clarke and expressed a desire to move on.\"\n\nClarke and his family have been long-time residents of South Jersey. When first playing with the Flyers, Clarke lived in Cherry Hill, New Jersey, later moving to Moorestown and then Haddonfield.\n\nClarke and his wife, Sandy, have four children, sons Wade and Lucas and daughters Jody and Jakki. They live in Ocean City, New Jersey.\n\nOn November 15, 1984, Bobby Clarke Night was held at the Spectrum. The Flyers retired Clarke's #16 jersey and unveiled the Bobby Clarke Trophy which is awarded annually to the Flyers' Most Valuable Player. Three years later Clarke was a first ballot inductee into the Hockey Hall of Fame. The Flyers created a team Hall of Fame in 1988, and the first two inductees were Clarke and Bernie Parent. He also played in the 2012 Winter Classic Alumni Game at Citizens Bank Park against the New York Rangers alumni.\n\nIn addition to his NHL honors, Clarke was appointed an Officer of the Order of Canada (O.C.). The trophy he won in 1968 and 1969 with the Bombers, given annually to the Western Hockey League's top scorer, was renamed the Bob Clarke Trophy. He was inducted into three more halls of fame, the Philadelphia Sports Hall of Fame in 2003 as a charter member, Canada's Sports Hall of Fame in 2005, and the Manitoba Hockey Hall of Fame.\n\nClarke finished his career 4th all-time in assists and 11th all-time in points, but he has since fallen to and (). His career plus-minus of +506 is 5th all-time. His back-to-back 89 assist seasons in 1974–75 and 1975–76 is still the Flyers team record and he also owns several other Philadelphia Flyers records, including:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "561182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=561182", "title": "Buck Henry", "text": "Buck Henry\n\nHenry Zuckerman, credited as Buck Henry (born December 9, 1930), is an American actor, writer, film director, and television director. He has been nominated for an Academy Award twice, in 1968 for Best Adapted Screenplay for \"The Graduate\" and in 1979 for Best Director for \"Heaven Can Wait\".\n\nHenry was born to a Jewish family in New York City, the son of silent film actress and star of the original \"Gentlemen Prefer Blondes\", Ruth Taylor (January 13, 1905 – April 12, 1984) and Paul Steinberg Zuckerman (April 15, 1899 – 1965), a retired Air Force brigadier general and stockbroker.\n\nHenry attended The Choate School (now Choate Rosemary Hall) and Dartmouth College, where he met Bob Rafelson, and also worked on the \"Dartmouth Jack-O-Lantern\" humor magazine. From 1959 to 1962, as part of an elaborate hoax by comedian Alan Abel, he pretended to be G. Clifford Prout, the quietly outraged president of the Society for Indecency to Naked Animals, who presented his point of view on talk shows.\n\nHenry's dry humor attracted attention in the entertainment community. He became a cast member on TV programs such as \"The New Steve Allen Show\" (1961) and \"That Was The Week That Was\" (1964–65). He was a co-creator and writer for \"Get Smart\" (1965–70), with Mel Brooks. Two of his TV projects had short runs but are fondly remembered by fans: \"Captain Nice\" (1967) with William Daniels as a reluctant superhero, and \"Quark\" (1978), with Richard Benjamin in command of a garbage scow in outer space. He also played Dr. Victor Rudman, a fractal scientist who dated Murphy, on the \"My Dinner With Einstein\" episode (1989) of \"Murphy Brown\".\n\nHe appeared on the television show \"Will and Grace\" in 2005. In 2007, he made two guest appearances on \"The Daily Show\" as a contributor, billed as the show's \"Senior Senior Correspondent\". He has also appeared as Liz Lemon's father, Dick Lemon, in the \"30 Rock\" episodes \"Ludachristmas\" (December 13, 2007) and \"Gentleman's Intermission\" (November 4, 2010). In 2011, he appeared in a multi-episode arc of \"Hot in Cleveland\" as Elka's groom.\n\nHenry hosted NBC's \"Saturday Night Live\" 10 times between 1976 and 1980, making him the show’s most frequent host during its initial five year run, thus setting a record that held for nearly a decade. This figure does not include the show’s second-season Mardi Gras special, for which he was not in fact credited as host, but rather as one of several guest comedy and musical performers. Because he was featured more prominently than any of the other comedy performers who guested on the special episode (which was broadcast live from within the midst of Mardi Gras events in New Orleans), he is sometimes erroneously considered to have been the host of the program. (This role could be more accurately described as having been filled by musical performer Randy Newman).\nIt became a tradition during these years for Henry to host the final show of each season, beginning with the 1976-1977 season.\nHenry's frequent host record would be broken when Steve Martin made his 11th appearance as host of the show on the finale episode of the 1988-1989 season. During the October 30, 1976, episode, Buck Henry was injured in the forehead by John Belushi's katana in the samurai sketch. Henry's head began to bleed and he was forced to wear a large bandage on his forehead for the rest of the show. As a gag, the members of the \"SNL\" cast each wore a bandage on their foreheads as well.\n\n\n\nHenry has appeared in more than 40 films including \"The Graduate\", \"Candy\", \"Catch-22\", \"Taking Off\", \"The Man Who Fell to Earth\", \"Gloria\", \"Eating Raoul\", \"Aria\", \"Tune in Tomorrow\", \"Defending Your Life\", \"The Player\", \"Short Cuts\", and \"Grumpy Old Men\". He co-directed \"Heaven Can Wait\", the 1978 remake of \"Here Comes Mr. Jordan\", and appeared in the film as an officious angel, reprising the character originally played by Edward Everett Horton.\n\nHis many writing credits include \"The Graduate\", \"Candy\", \"The Owl and the Pussycat\", \"What's Up, Doc?\", \"Catch-22\", \"The Day of the Dolphin\", \"Protocol\", and \"To Die For\".\n\nHenry shared an Oscar nomination with Calder Willingham for their screenplay for \"The Graduate\" (1967). He received a second shared Oscar nomination, this time for Best Director of 1978’s \"Heaven Can Wait\", which he co-directed with the movie’s star Warren Beatty. In 1997, Henry was the recipient of the Austin Film Festival's Distinguished Screenwriter Award.\n\nHis Broadway credits include the 2002 revival of \"Morning's at Seven\". Off-Broadway in July 2009, he starred opposite Holland Taylor in \"Mother\", a play by Lisa Ebersole.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4608177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4608177", "title": "Chandramukhi Basu", "text": "Chandramukhi Basu\n\nChandramukhi Basu (; 1860–1944), a Bengali Christian from Dehradun, which was located in the (then known as) United Provinces of Agra and Oudh, was one of the first two female graduates of the British Empire. In 1882, along with Kadambini Ganguly, she passed the examination of the bachelor's degree in arts from University of Calcutta, India. Their formal degrees were handed during the convocation of the University in 1883.\n\nThe daughter of Bhuban Mohan Bose, she passed the First Arts examination from Dehradun Native Christian School in 1880. At that time Bethune School, to which shewanted to enter; did not admit non-Hindu girls, and as such she had to be admitted at the First Arts (F.A.) level in Reverend Alexander Duff's Free Church Institution (now the Scottish Church College). In 1876, because of the discriminatory official stances towards gender, she had to be given special permission to appear for the F.A. examination. As the only girl to appear for the examination that year, she had ranked first, but the university had to hold a series of meetings to decide whether her results could be published. Before Kadambini Ganguly, Chandramukhi Basu had already cleared her Entrance Examination in 1876, although the university refused to enlist her as a successful candidate. Only the university's changed resolution in 1878 allowed her to study further After she passed her F.A. examination, she moved to Bethune College for the degree course, along with Kadambini Ganguly. After her graduation, she was the only (and first) woman to pass MA from the University of Calcutta, and the British empire in 1884.\n\nShe started her career as a lecturer in Bethune College (it was still part of Bethune School) in 1886. The college was separated from the school in 1888. She became the principal, thus becoming the first female head of an undergraduate academic establishment in South Asia.\n\nShe retired in 1891 because of bad health and spent the rest of her life in Dehradun.\n\nTwo of her sisters, Bidhumukhi and Bindubasini, were also renowned. Bidhumukhi Bose and Virginia Mary Mitra (Nandi), graduating in 1890, were among the earliest women medical graduates from Calcutta Medical College. Thereafter, Bindubasini Bose graduated from Calcutta Medical College in 1891.\n\n"}
{"id": "37652659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37652659", "title": "Derrick Watson", "text": "Derrick Watson\n\nDerrick Kahala Watson (born September 9, 1966) is a United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the District of Hawaii.\n\nA native of Hawaii, he graduated from Harvard College and Harvard Law School before entering private practice in San Francisco. He served as a federal prosecutor for some years in California and then Hawaii, rising to become chief of the Civil Division of the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Hawaii. Appointed to the federal bench in 2012 and 2013 by President Barack Obama, he was unanimously confirmed by the United States Senate in 2013. Watson is the fourth Native Hawaiian federal judge in U.S. history, and the only one currently serving.\n\nDerrick Kahala Watson was born in 1966, in Honolulu, Hawaii, to a Honolulu police officer and a worker at a local bank. He graduated from the Kamehameha Schools in 1984 and received his Bachelor of Arts, \"cum laude\" from Harvard College in 1988. Watson was the first in his family to graduate college. Watson received his Juris Doctor from Harvard Law School in 1991, and was admitted to practice law in California the same year. Barack Obama and Neil M. Gorsuch were members of his graduating class.\n\nHe began his career as an associate at the law firm of Landels, Ripley & Diamond in San Francisco, California, where he worked from 1991 to 1995. He served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Northern District of California from 1995 to 2000, serving as Deputy Chief of the Civil Division from 1999 to 2000. In 2000, Watson returned to private practice, joining the law firm of Farella Braun + Martel LLP, where he worked on product liability, toxic tort, and environmental cost recovery litigation. Watson became a partner at the firm in 2003. While in private practice, Watson conducted substantial pro bono work on behalf of the San Francisco Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights, he also did pro bono work involving human trafficking and wage and hour claims. Watson served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the District of Hawaii from 2007 to 2013 and served as Chief of the Civil Division from 2009 to 2013. From 1998 to 2006, Watson served in the United States Army Reserve in the Judge Advocate General's Corps, with the rank of captain. He was honorably discharged.\n\nOn November 14, 2012, President Obama nominated Watson to serve as a United States District Judge for the United States District Court for the District of Hawaii, to the seat vacated by Judge David Alan Ezra, who took senior status on June 27, 2012. On January 2, 2013, his nomination was returned to the President, due to the \"sine die\" adjournment of the Senate. He was renominated to the same office the next day. Watson was rated \"well qualified\" by a substantial majority of the American Bar Association's Standing Committee on the Federal Judiciary. Watson encountered no opposition in the Senate Judiciary Committee, which reported his nomination to the Senate floor on February 14, 2013, by voice vote. Watson's appointment was confirmed by a vote of 94 ayes to 0 nays on April 18, 2013. He received his commission on April 23, 2013. Watson is the fourth Native Hawaiian to serve on the federal bench, and the only currently serving Native Hawaiian judge.\n\nOn March 15, 2017, Watson granted a temporary restraining order blocking President Trump's revised executive order banning entry of nationals of six majority-Muslim countries into the United States from going into effect. Watson held that the order would violate the First Amendment's Establishment Clause in that \"a reasonable, objective observer ... would conclude that the Executive Order was issued with a purpose to disfavor a particular religion.\" Watson justified his opinion by contending that because the intent of Trump's executive order disfavored foreign Muslims, it by extension disfavored domestic Muslims thus violating their First Amendment rights as well.\n\nOn March 29, Watson converted the temporary restraining order into a preliminary injunction. On June 12, 2017, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit upheld the majority of the injunction, unanimously determining that Trump had \"exceeded the scope of authority delegated to the president\" under the Immigration and Nationality Act. The United States Supreme Court granted Trump's request to hear the case, setting arguments for October 2017; in the meantime, the Court partially reinstated Trump's executive order for a travel ban on June 26, 2017; the Court \"prohibited the government from enforcing the ban against any 'foreign nationals who have a credible claim of a bona fide relationship with a person or entity in the United States,' but they allowed the government to enforce it against travelers who lack such a relationship.\"\n\nInitially, the Trump administration excluded grandparents, aunts, uncles, and other relations from the exceptions to the travel ban, arguing that they were not \"close\" relatives. The State of Hawaii filed an emergency motion to clarify the scope of \"close familial relationships\" under the terms of the injunction and Supreme Court decision narrowing it, asking the district court to rule \"that the federal government may not enforce the controversial bans against fiances, grandparents, grandchildren, brothers-in-law, sisters-in-law, aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews and cousins of people currently living in the United States.\" On July 6, Watson denied the motion, writing that \"[t]his Court will not upset the Supreme Court's careful balancing and equitable judgment\" and that the State should seek guidance from the Supreme Court. State Attorney General Doug Chin described Watson's action as \"procedural\" rather than a decision on the merits. Subsequently, the Ninth Circuit ruled that Watson \"had the authority to interpret the Supreme Court's order and block any violation of it\" and the issue returned to him. On July 13 Watson issued a ruling expanding the class of exemptions from the travel ban. He ordered that the definition of \"close family members\" be expanded to include grandparents, grandchildren, brothers-in-law, sisters-in-law, aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews, and cousins in the United States. Watson also ruled that refugees who have a formal promise of placement from a U.S. resettlement agency are exempt from the ban. The following day, U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson sent out a diplomatic cable to all U.S. diplomatic posts reflecting Watson's ruling; the cable \"reversed the State Department's previous, narrow definition of close family and stated that 'grandparents, grandchildren, brothers-in-law, sisters-in-law, aunts and uncles, nephews and nieces, and cousins' are eligible for visas.\"\n\nOn October 17, 2017, Watson again issued a temporary restraining order preventing a later revision of Trump's travel ban from going into effect. In his decision, Watson prevented the blocking of citizens of Iran, Libya, Syria, Yemen, Somalia, and Chad from traveling to the United States, while leaving intact the restrictions for North Korean citizens and some Venezuelan officials. He argued that the revised ban “suffers from precisely the same maladies as its predecessor”.\n\nOn June 26, 2018, in \"Trump v. Hawaii\" the Supreme Court reversed this decision in a 5–4 decision, ruling that plaintiffs did not have a \"likelihood of success on the merits\" on either their INA or their Establishment Clause claims. The court vacated the injunction and remanded the case to lower courts for further proceedings.\n\nWatson described himself to the \"Honolulu Star-Advertiser\" as a political independent.\n\n"}
{"id": "26822851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26822851", "title": "Disciples of Jesus in Islam", "text": "Disciples of Jesus in Islam\n\nThe Qur'anic account of the disciples ( \"al-ḥawāriyyūn\") of Jesus does not include their names, numbers, or any detailed accounts of their lives. Muslim exegesis, however, more-or-less agrees with the New Testament list and says that the disciples included Peter, Philip, Thomas, Bartholomew, Matthew, Andrew, James, Jude, John and Simon the Zealot. Scholars generally draw a parallel with the disciples of Jesus and the disciples of Muhammad, who followed Muhammad during his lifetime, 600 years later.\n\nThe following is a list of all the Qur'anic references to the disciples of Jesus:\n\nThe following are Hadith (narrations originating from the words of Muhammad), collected by Muslim ibn al-Hajjaj Nishapuri, which indirectly emphasize Islamic beliefs concerning the disciples of Jesus:\n\n"}
{"id": "54100293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54100293", "title": "Florence Terry Griswold", "text": "Florence Terry Griswold\n\nFlorence Terry Griswold (May 28, 1875–July 7, 1941) was an American cattlewoman and rancher from Texas. She was the first woman delegate of the Texas Cattle Raisers Association to attend the Trans-Mississippi Convention and for several years, the only woman delegate. A staunch supporter of women's equality, she worked as a suffragist, served as a Republican National Convention Delegate for many years and later fought for equal pay for women. She is most known as the founder of the Pan-American Round Tables in 1916, which has grown from a single club begun in San Antonio, Texas to an international NGO with over 1400 branches. \n\nFlorence T. Terry was born on May 28, 1875, on \"La Pendencia\", a ranch located between Eagle Pass and Carrizo Springs, Texas to Louisa James (née Lamkin) and Judge William Theodore Terry. Terry's grandfather, Constant Terry, was a prominent settler in south Texas and had urged his son, who had earned a law degree in New York to move west. The young couple settled on the ranch and Theodore worked in nearby Eagle Pass as a lawyer. He became one of the first federal judges in Southwest Texas and built his ranch to an extensive size. Louisa and Theodore had four children: Annie Louise, Alice, William Nathaniel and Florence, the youngest child. From an early age, she was bilingual.\n\nOn September 5, 1894, in Carrizo Springs, she married Felix Motlow Shaw, a rancher and cattleman. Felix was well known among fellow ranchers having been one of the two ranchers, who introduced shorthorn bulls to the area. Subsequently, the couple had four children: Ruth, Adele, Hazel and Felix Jr. Initially they made their home in Webb County, Texas. Later, they maintained a home in San Antonio at 323 Woodlawn Avenue as well as maintaining their ranch in Dimmit County. On July 10, 1908, Shaw's husband Felix became overheated and had a stroke, when working on his ranch. He was transported via train to Uvalde and then driven by car to his home in San Antonio. He died a week later on 18 July, 1908, leaving the widow and her four children his estate.\n\nUpon Felix's death, Shaw took over his business and operated as a cattlewoman and rancher. Because the life insurance company refused to pay, Shaw sued and was successful in her claim. Managing the ranch, she doubled the holdings her husband had left her and by 1910, had over 100,000 acres with 5,000 head of cattle on her ranches in Webb and Dimmit counties. She also managed a 500 acre farm in Dimmit county. Shaw was one of the 1909 delegates, and the only woman sent by the Texas Cattle Raisers Association to the 1909 Trans-Mississippi Convention in Denver. On 29 September 1910 at her home, Shaw married her second husband Spencer Patterson Brundage, a real estate partner in the firm of Hust and Brundage. The couple immediately left for an extended month long holiday in the east, but were back in Texas in time for her to attend the Trans-Mississippi Convention, where once again, she was the only woman delegate.\n\nAfter her second marriage, Brundage became more socially active, joining such organizations as the Reading Club and the San Antonio Woman's and Symphony Society. Her husband became vice president of the International Club, to promote the city and provide hospitality to tourists from Mexico. She also joined the women's suffrage movement, attending the State Convention for Equal Franchise in 1913, serving as the corresponding secretary for the San Antonio Equal Suffrage Society, and visiting with Congressmen throughout the state. By the end of 1913, the couple had divorced and Brundage resumed use of the name of Shaw. She married her third husband John Case Griswold, a real estate clerk at A. C. Dauchy Company, on June 8, 1914 and the two settled into her San Antonio home. Her marriage did not stop her campaign for women's rights, as she became a \"frequent, featured speaker\" on behalf of enfranchisement. She also began to hold informal meetings of women to improve international relationships with Latin American women.\n\nWith the end of the Mexican Revolution and the influx of women and children refugees, to whom she opened her home, Griswold formalized the international meetings. Believing that businessmen and politicians pursued self-serving interests, she was convinced that women could help create bridges by familiarizing themselves with other cultures and building networks. To that end, she called together a group of friends at the Menger Hotel on October 16, 1916 to create the Pan American Round Table, for which she served as first Director General. As the organization expanded to several branches in Texas, Griswold established the Pan American Round Tables of Texas in 1922 and became the first Director General of the state organization. \n\nIn 1924, Griswold was elected as Republican National Commiteewoman for Texas and served for eight years, striving to improve the rights for women. She was particularly in favor of pay equality for men and women performing equal work, as well as unpaid labor for domestic service being included as an essential part of the economy. She remained politically active in the national Republican Party events and served as a chair for the election campaign of Wendell Willkie.\n\nGriswold died on July 7, 1941 in San Antonio, Texas. The Pan American Round Tables has grown into an international organization with over 1400 branches located in each country of the Western Hemisphere. In 2016, the organization celebrated its centennial with a convention honoring its founder. The Florence Terry Griswold Scholarship is awarded annually by the Alliance of Pan American Round Tables to allow Latin American students to study in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "30861349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30861349", "title": "Fulcanelli", "text": "Fulcanelli\n\nFulcanelli (fl. 1920s) was the name used by a French alchemist and esoteric author, whose identity is still debated. The name Fulcanelli seems to be a play on words: Vulcan, the ancient Roman god of fire, plus El, a Canaanite name for God and so the Sacred Fire.\n\nThe appeal of Fulcanelli as a cultural phenomenon is due partly to the mystery of most aspects of his life and works; one of the anecdotes pertaining to his life retells, in particular, how his most devoted pupil Eugène Canseliet performed a successful transmutation of 100 grams of lead into gold in a laboratory of the gas works of Sarcelles at the Georgi company with the use of a small quantity of the \"Projection Powder\" given to him by his teacher, in the presence of Julien Champagne and Gaston Sauvage.\n\nFulcanelli was likely a Frenchman educated in the ways of alchemical lore, architecture, art, science and languages. Fulcanelli wrote two books that were published after his disappearance in 1926, having left his magnum opus, \"Le Mystère des Cathédrales\", with his only student, Eugène Canseliet. Its first edition consisted of 300 copies and was published by Jean Schemit at 52 Rue Laffitte, Paris.\n\nTheories about Fulcanelli speculate that he was one or another famous French occultist of the time: perhaps a member of the former Royal Family (the Valois), or another member of the \"Frères d'Heliopolis\" (\"Brothers of Heliopolis\", a society centred around Fulcanelli which included Eugène Canseliet, Jean-Julien Champagne, and Jules Boucher). Patrick Rivière, a student of Canseliet's, believed that Fulcanelli's true identity was Jules Violle, a famous French physicist. In a 1996 book, samples of writing by Jean-Julien Hubert Champagne (born January 23, 1877) and Fulcanelli are compared, and show considerable similarity. In any event, by 1916, Fulcanelli had accepted Canseliet, who was then only sixteen, as his first student. During 1921, he accepted the sons of Ferdinand de Lesseps as students and in 1922 two more students: Jules Boucher and Gaston Sauvage. In 1925, Fulcanelli relocated to 59 rue Rochechouart where he allegedly succeeded in transmuting base metals into gold.\n\nIn 1960, with the publication of the international bestseller \"The Morning of the Magicians\", Pauwels and Bergier popularized the mystery of the Master Alchemist.\n\nWithout neglecting the belief of some researchers that Canseliet himself could have been Fulcanelli, Canseliet himself believed Fulcanelli's Master was Basil Valentine, an alchemist of the 15th century; the theoretical Master at least, for Fulcanelli's initiator may have been his own wife. As Fulcanelli describes in a strange letter he kept as a talisman about the completion of the Great Work - by someone who is presumably Basil Valentine - he also mentions his own wife: \"...When my wife told me the good news\" and \"...my wife, with the inexplicable intuition of sensitives, had a really strange dream.\" As shown by this letter, when referring to something as important as the Great Work, he mentions his wife as someone important to the Magnum Opus.\n\nAccording to Louis Pauwels, Fulcanelli survived World War II and disappeared completely after the Liberation of Paris. Every attempt to find him failed. In August 1945, American G-2 (Army Intelligence) asked Jacques Bergier to contact a certain Army major who was in charge of the operation of searching for German research reports on atomic energy. The major, whose identity was apparently anonymous, or simply forgotten, wanted to know the whereabouts of Fulcanelli. Bergier could not say and the army major seemed satisfied Fulcanelli could not be found.\n\nWalter Lang reports that Fulcanelli communicated with Jacques Bergier to warn French atomic physicist André Helbronner of man's impending use of nuclear weapons. According to Fulcanelli, nuclear weapons had been used before, by and against humanity. Prof. Helbronner and Chevillon, among others, were assassinated by the Gestapo towards the end of World War II.\n\nThe meeting between Jacques Bergier and Fulcanelli reportedly occurred during June 1937 in a laboratory of the Gas Board in Paris. According to Neil Powell, the following is a translation of the original verbatim transcript of the rendezvous:\n\n\"You're on the brink of success, as indeed are several others of our scientists today. Please, allow me. Be very very careful. I warn you... The liberation of nuclear power is easier than you think and the radioactivity artificially produced can poison the atmosphere of our planet in a very short time: a few years. Moreover, atomic explosives can be produced from a few grains of metal powerful enough to destroy whole cities. I'm telling you this for a fact: the alchemists have known it for a very long time...\n\nI shall not attempt to prove to you what I'm now going to say but I ask you to repeat it to Mr. Helbronner: certain geometrical arrangements of highly purified materials are enough to release atomic forces without having recourse to either electricity or vacuum techniques... The secret of alchemy is this: there is a way of manipulating matter and energy so as to produce what modern scientists call 'a field of force'. The field acts on the observer and puts him in a privileged position vis-à-vis the universe. From this position he has access to the realities which are ordinarily hidden from us by time and space, matter and energy. This is what we call the Great Work.\" \n\nWhen Bergier asked Fulcanelli about the Philosopher's Stone, the alchemist answered: \"...the vital thing is not the transmutation of metals but that of the experimenter himself. It is an ancient secret that a few people rediscover each century. Unfortunately, only a handful are successful...\"\n\nIn December 1938, the German chemists Otto Hahn and Fritz Strassmann sent a manuscript to \"Naturwissenschaften\" reporting they had detected the element barium after bombarding uranium with neutrons. Lise Meitner and her nephew Otto Robert Frisch correctly interpreted these results as being nuclear fission.\n\nAccording to Canseliet, his last encounter with Fulcanelli happened in 1953 (years after his disappearance), when he went to Spain and there was taken to a castle high in the mountains for a rendez-vous with his former master. Canseliet had known Fulcanelli as an old man in his 80s but now the Master had grown younger and had physically changed in appearance: he was now an androgynous creature, a being Fulcanelli called The Divine Androgyne. The reunion was brief and Fulcanelli once again disappeared not leaving any trace of his whereabouts.\n\nAccording to Fulcanelli, the Phonetic Cabala (Fulcanelli's term for a special use of language, drawing on phonetic similarities and other symbolic techniques for expanding the expressive reach of words) is not the Hebrew Kabbalah; even the derivation is different: Cabala is derived from the Latin \"caballus\", a horse, as in the Horse of Troy in the Iliad. It is basically homophonic and symphonic rather than numerical; it is based on phonetic assonance and resonance to echo the Gay Science in the words of the Hellenic gods spoken in sacred Ancient Greek nomenclature. According to Walter Lang, who wrote an introduction to the English translation of Fulcanelli's \"Le Mystère des Cathédrales\", the basic principles of the Phonetic Cabala are restored in Fulcanelli's \"Magnum Opus\".\n\nThe two books by Fulcanelli are\nThe books are written in a cryptic and erudite manner, replete with Latin and Greek puns, alchemical symbolism, double entendres, and lectures on and in Argot and Cant, all of which serve to keep casual readers ignorant.\n\nA third book, \"Finis Gloriae Mundi\" (\"End of the World's Glory\"), was also reportedly being prepared for publication. The notes for the book were left for a time with his only student, Canseliet. Fulcanelli decided that the timing for publication of the book was not right and so it was never in fact published. A book by the same name, citing Fulcanelli as the author, was published much later, but has been shown to be a counterfeit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31912604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31912604", "title": "Geoffrey Pardoe", "text": "Geoffrey Pardoe\n\nDr Geoffrey Keith Charles Pardoe OBE FREng FRAeS FBIS (2 November 1928 – 3 January 1996) was the project manager for the Blue Streak ballistic missile programme. He was also an advocate for British advanced science and technology, and involvement in space exploration, deploring (repeated) government negligence and its aborted technology programmes.\n\nHe attended Wanstead County High School, a co-educational grammar school in Wanstead, east London. He attended and gained a BScEng from Loughborough of College of Technology (the college's degree was awarded by the University of London). He later gained a PhD in Astronautics from Loughborough University in 1984.\n\nFrom 1949-1951 he was senior aerodynamicist at Armstrong Whitworth Aircraft, then part of Hawker Siddeley. He worked on rocket design and the Sea Slug (missile) (Britain's first guided missile). From 1951-19566 he was chief aerodynamicist at the Guided Weapons division of de Havilland Propellers, working on the De Havilland Firestreak. He worked on aerodynamics and flight analysis.\n\nDe Havilland was given the Blue Streak ballistic missile project, and he was the project manager from 1956-60. In 1959 he proposed a scheme known as Black Prince whereby a Blue Streak would be the main first stage, with the second stage a Black Knight, with a third stage a military solid rocket on top. It was also considered to have a Black Arrow as the second stage or third stage.\n\nOn 13 April 1960 the Blue Streak project was abruptly cancelled. He argued in September 1959 that the space vehicle could be transformed into the first stage of a European rocket launcher. He spoke fluent French and German. He found it difficult to forgive the British government when it withdrew from the European Launcher Development Organisation (ELDO) in 1968, with funding finishing in 1971. The government was paying £9 million a year to ELDO, which he argued was less than a few miles of motorway, and that leaving ELDO would \"keep Britain out of spaceflight forever\", which was largely later proved correct (although work on satellites would continue). The French government would later massively support the Ariane project. By 1988 Ariane had around £2 billion worth of orders for flights. The earlier British rocket project was later referred to as the \"ill-fated\" Blue Streak, but it was only \"ill fated\" at the administrative level, not the technical.\n\nDe Havilland merged with Hawker Siddeley in 1960, and he was the chief engineer of Hawker Siddeley Dynamics Weapons and Space Research division from 1960 to 1963. From 1963 to 1969 he was chief project engineer of the company's Space Division. He was managing director from 1985 to 1987 and deputy chairman from 1987 to 1993 of Surrey Satellite Technology.\n\nFrom 1993 until his death in 1996, he was director of the International Academy of Science. In 1986 he became chairman of the Watt Committee on Energy. From 1984 to 1985 he was president of the Royal Aeronautical Society. The RAeS has honoured him with the Geoffrey Pardoe Space Award.\n\nIn 1960 the British Space Development Company, a consortium of thirteen large industrial companies was set up, to plan the world's first commercial communication satellite company, by Robert Renwick, 1st Baron Renwick. He became the Executive Director. With Blue Streak, Britain had the technology to make it possible.\n\nThe idea was flatly turned down by the British government on the grounds that such a system could not be envisaged in the next 20 years (1961–81). America then set up COMSAT in 1963, resulting in Intelsat, the world's largest fleet (52) of commercial satellites. The first of Intelsat's fleet, Intelsat I (\"Early Bird\") was launched in April 1965. Intelsat has been very commercially successful.\n\nPrivate finance would have been available for the project, but the project was scuppered by not receiving government approval. Later in the mid-1980s he campaigned for a British space agency, as Britain was the only main Western country not to have one, even though the Chairman of the European Space Agency, from 1984-7, was Britain's Dr (later Professor) Harry Atkinson. The BNSC was formed in 1985.\n\nHe founded the consultancy General Technology Systems in Brentford in 1973, with a colleague from the Blue Streak project, Bill Stephens. It was later based at the Brunel Science Park at Brunel University in 1988. In the late 1980s GTS was developing an 80-foot satellite launcher called LittLEO, to carry 700 kg payloads into orbit from the Andøya Rocket Range launch site in Norway. The cost would be around £10,000 per kg. The company LittLEO Ltd was established. A first launch was planned for 1992. It would have been multi-staged with a solid fuel propellant.\n\nDuring the Apollo 11 mission to the Moon in 1969, he was part of the television commentary team with Reg Turnill. He was chosen for this role as he was a good communicator.\n\nHe married Patricia Gutteridge in 1953. They had a son and a daughter. He died of a heart attack aged 67 on a business visit to attend meetings at the International Academy of Science in Kansas City, Missouri.\n\nHe was made OBE in 1988, a Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society in 1968, and of the Royal Academy of Engineering in 1988.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40183571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40183571", "title": "Grace Sherwood", "text": "Grace Sherwood\n\nGrace White Sherwood (1660–1740), called the Witch of Pungo, is the last person known to have been convicted of witchcraft in Virginia. A farmer, healer, and midwife, she was accused by her neighbors of transforming herself into a cat, damaging crops, and causing the death of livestock. She was charged with witchcraft several times; at her trial in 1706, Sherwood was accused of bewitching her neighbor, Elizabeth Hill, causing Hill to miscarry. The court ordered that Sherwood's guilt or innocence be determined by ducking her in water. If she sank, she was innocent; if she did not, she was guilty. Sherwood floated to the surface and may have spent almost eight years in jail before being released.\n\nSherwood lived in Pungo, Princess Anne County (today part of Virginia Beach), and married James Sherwood, a planter, in 1680. The couple had three sons: John, James, and Richard. Her first case was in 1697; she was accused of casting a spell on a bull, resulting in its death, but the matter was dismissed by the agreement of both parties. The following year she was accused of witchcraft by two neighbors; she supposedly bewitched the hogs and cotton crop of one of them. Sherwood sued for slander after each accusation, but her lawsuits were unsuccessful and her husband had to pay court costs. In 1706 she was convicted of witchcraft and was incarcerated. Freed from prison by 1714, she recovered her property from Princess Anne County (her husband had died in 1701). She did not remarry, and lived on her farm until her death in 1740 at the age of about 80.\n\nOn July 10, 2006, the 300th anniversary of Sherwood's conviction, Governor Tim Kaine granted an informal pardon to \"officially restore [her] good name\", recognizing that she was wrongfully convicted. A statue depicting her was erected near Sentara Independence on Independence Boulevard in Virginia Beach, close to the site of the colonial courthouse where she was tried. She is sculpted alongside a raccoon, representing her love of animals, and carrying a basket containing garlic and rosemary, in recognition of her knowledge of herbal healing.\n\nSherwood was born in 1660 to John and Susan White. John White was a carpenter and farmer of Scottish descent; it is uncertain whether he was born in America. Susan was English by birth; their daughter Grace was born in Virginia, probably in Pungo.\n\nIn April 1680 Grace White married a respected small-farm landowner, James Sherwood, in the Lynnhaven Parish Church. The couple had three sons: John, James, and Richard. John White gave the Sherwoods of land when they married, and on his death in 1681 left them the remainder of his farm. The Sherwood family was poor, and lived in an area inhabited by small landowners or those with no land at all. In addition to farming, Grace Sherwood grew her own herbs, which she used to heal both people and animals. She also acted as a midwife. When James died in 1701, Grace inherited his property. She did not remarry.\n\nNo drawings or paintings of Sherwood exist, but contemporary accounts describe her as attractive and tall and possessing a sense of humor. Sherwood wore trousers instead of a dress while working on her farm. This was unusual for the time, as was her herb growing. The combination of clothing and good looks was said to attract men and upset their wives. Sherwood biographer and advocate Belinda Nash suggests that Sherwood's neighbors may have been jealous of Sherwood, and that the witchcraft tales may have been conjured up in an effort to remove her from, and subsequently get, her property. Sherwood was a party to at least a dozen lawsuits, in which she had to defend against accusations of witchcraft, or in which she sued her accusers for slander.\n\nThe existence of witches and demonic forces was taken for granted by the American colonists—witchcraft was considered the work of the Devil. Colonists believed that witches could be identified by their strange behavior. As early as 1626, nineteen years after the founding of the Jamestown colony, a grand jury in Virginia sat to consider whether Goodwife Joan Wright was a witch—she had supposedly predicted the deaths of three women and had caused illness as revenge for not hiring her as midwife. No record of the outcome is extant. Nevertheless, Virginia did not experience events of mass hysteria such as the Salem, Massachusetts witch trials in 1692–1693, in which 19 people were executed on allegations of sorcery, some years before the first accusations against Sherwood. Ecclesiastical influence in the courtroom was much less a factor in Virginia, where the clergy rarely participated in witchcraft trials, than in New England, where ministers took an active part. People's fears of witchcraft in Virginia were not based on their religious beliefs as much as they were rooted in folklore, although the two often intermingled. New England's Puritans had settled in towns, and community pressure helped contribute to witchcraft convictions. There were few such towns in Virginia, where the population mostly lived on farms and plantations, connected by water transport and scattered over a large area.\n\nVirginia's lay and religious leaders were more interested in prosecuting offenses such as gossip, slander, and fornication, seeing them as threats to social stability. They wished to avoid witchcraft prosecutions, which were divisive. Virginia courts were reluctant to hear accusations of witchcraft and were even more reluctant to convict. Unlike the Salem witch trial courts, where the accused had to prove her innocence, in Virginia courts the accuser carried the burden of proof. Further, Virginia courts generally ignored evidence said to have been obtained by supernatural means, whereas the New England courts were known to convict people based solely on it. Virginia required proof of guilt through either searches for witch's marks or ducking. Judges and magistrates would dismiss unsubstantiated cases of witchcraft and allow the accusers, who found themselves \"under an ill tongue\", to be sued for slander. Frances Pollard of the Virginia Historical Society states: \"It was pretty clear that Virginia early on tried to discourage these charges being brought of witchcraft because they were so troublesome.\" The southeastern corner of Virginia, around present-day Norfolk and Virginia Beach (where Pungo is located), saw more accusations of witchcraft than other areas. According to Leslie M. Newman, this may have been due to local poverty as there was no cultural elite to restrain such prosecutions.\n\nAlthough few Virginia records survive from that era, 19 known witchcraft cases were brought in the colony during the 17th century, all but one of which ended in acquittal. The one conviction was a 1656 case of a man convicted of witchcraft and sentenced to 10 stripes and banishment from the county. There were no executions for witchcraft in Virginia. Nonetheless, as late as in 1736, Virginia's justices of the peace were reminded that witchcraft was still a crime, and that first offenders could expect to be pilloried and jailed for up to a year. In 1745, John Craig, a Presbyterian minister in Augusta County, made assertions of witchcraft after his child and several of his animals died, and was in response accused of using evil arts to divine who was responsible. Neither he nor those who accused him brought their claims to court to face \"unsympathetic magistrates\", though prosecution for witchcraft was still possible in Virginia. The last Virginia witchcraft trial took place in 1802 in Brooke County, which is now in West Virginia. In that case, a couple claimed that a woman was a witch, an accusation ruled slanderous.\n\nThe trial by ducking (immersing the accused, bound, in water, to see if she would float) appears to have been used only once in Virginia, to try Sherwood. It was believed that, as water was considered pure, it would reject witches, causing them to float, whereas the innocent would sink.\n\nThe first accusation against Sherwood came to court in early 1697. Richard Capps alleged that she had used a spell to cause the death of his bull. The court made no decision, and the Sherwoods filed a defamation suit against Capps that was resolved by a settlement. In 1698, Sherwood was accused by her neighbor John Gisburne of enchanting his pigs and cotton crop. No court action followed this accusation, and another suit for defamation by the Sherwoods failed. In the same year Elizabeth Barnes alleged that Sherwood had assumed the form of a black cat, entered Barnes' home, jumped over her bed, drove and whipped her, and left via the keyhole. Again the allegation was unresolved, and again the subsequent defamation action was lost. For each of the failed actions, Sherwood and her husband had to pay court-related costs.\n\nAccording to Richard Beale Davis in his journal article on witchcraft in Virginia, by this time \"Princess Anne County had obviously grown tired of Mrs. Sherwood as a general nuisance\". In 1705, Sherwood was involved in a fight with her neighbor, Elizabeth Hill. Sherwood sued Hill and her husband for assault and battery, and on December 7, 1705, was awarded damages of twenty shillings (one pound sterling). \n\nOn January 3, 1706, the Hills accused Grace Sherwood of witchcraft. She failed to answer the charge in court, and on February 7, 1706, the court ordered her to appear on a charge of having bewitched Elizabeth Hill, causing a miscarriage. In March 1706 the Princess Anne County justices sought to empanel two juries, both made up of women. The first was ordered to search Sherwood's home for waxen or baked figures that might indicate she was a witch. The second was ordered to look for \"demon suckling teats\" by examining her. In both instances, reluctance on the part of the local residents made it difficult to form a jury and both juries refused to carry out the searches. On March 7, 1706, Sherwood was examined by a jury of 12 \"ancient and knowing women\" appointed to look for markings on her body that might be brands of the Devil. They discovered two \"marks not like theirs or like those of any other woman\". The forewoman of this jury was the same Elizabeth Barnes who had previously accused Sherwood of witchcraft.\n\nNeither the colonial authorities in Williamsburg nor the local court in Princess Anne were willing to declare Sherwood a witch. Those in Williamsburg considered the charge overly vague, and on April 16 instructed the local court to examine the case more fully. For each court appearance, Sherwood had to travel from her farm in Pungo to where the court was sitting.\n\nOn May 2, 1706, the county justices noted that while no particular act of maleficium had been alleged against Sherwood, there was \"great cause of suspicion\". Consequently, the Sheriff of Princess Anne County took Sherwood into custody, though Sherwood could give bond for her appearance and good behavior. Maximilian Boush, a warden of Lynnhaven Parish Church, was the prosecutor in Sherwood's case. On July 5, 1706, the justices ordered a trial by ducking to take place, with Sherwood's consent, but heavy rains caused a postponement until July 10, as they feared the wet weather might harm her health. Sherwood was taken inside Lynnhaven Parish Church, placed on a stool and ordered to ask for forgiveness for her witchery. She replied, \"I be not a witch, I be a healer.\"\nAt about 10 a.m. on July 10, 1706, Sherwood was taken down a dirt lane now known as Witchduck Road, to a plantation near the mouth of the Lynnhaven River. News had spread, and the event attracted people from all over the colony, who began to shout \"Duck the witch!\" According to the principles of trial by water, if Sherwood floated she would be deemed guilty of witchcraft; if she did not, she would be innocent. It was not intended that Sherwood drown; the court had ordered that care be taken to preserve her life.\n\nFive women of Lynnhaven Parish Church examined Sherwood's naked body on the shoreline for any devices she might have to free herself, and then covered her with a sack. Six of the justices that had ordered the ducking rowed in one boat out in the river, and in another were the sheriff, the magistrate, and Sherwood. Just before she was pushed off the boat Sherwood is said to have stated, under clear skies, \"Before this day be through you will all get a worse ducking than I.\" Bound across the body—her right thumb to her left big toe and her left thumb to her right big toe – she was \"cast into the river\", and quickly floated to the surface. The sheriff then tied a Bible around her neck. This caused her to sink, but she untied herself, and returned to the surface, convincing many spectators she was a witch. As Sherwood was pulled out of the water a downpour reportedly started, drenching the onlookers. Several women who subsequently examined her for additional proof found \"two things like titts on her private parts of a black coller [color]\". She was jailed pending further proceedings.\n\nWhat happened to Sherwood after her ducking is unclear as many court records have been lost. She served an unknown time in the jail next to Lynnhaven Parish Church, perhaps as long as seven years and nine months. She was ordered to be detained \"to be brought to a future trial\", but no record of another trial exists, so it is possible the charge was dismissed at some point. On September 1, 1708, she was ordered to pay Christopher Cocke of tobacco for a reason not indicated in surviving records, but there is no mention of the payment. She appears to have been released some time in or before 1714, since in that year she paid back taxes on her property—which Virginia Lieutenant Governor Alexander Spotswood helped her to recover from Princess Anne County—on the banks of Muddy Creek off what is now Muddy Creek Road. She lived the remainder of her life quietly until her death in 1740, aged about 80. She is believed to have died in August or September 1740. Her will was proved on October 1, 1740; it noted that she was a widow. She left five shillings each to her sons James and Richard and everything else to her eldest son John.\n\nAccording to legend, Sherwood's sons put her body near the fireplace, and a wind came down the chimney. Her body disappeared amid the embers, with the only clue being a cloven hoofprint. Sherwood lies in an unmarked grave under some trees in a field near the intersection of Pungo Ferry Road and Princess Anne Road in Virginia Beach. Stories about the Devil taking her body, unnatural storms, and loitering black cats quickly arose after her death, and local men killed every feline they could find; this widespread killing of cats might have caused the infestation of rats and mice recorded in Princess Anne County in 1743. Her home on Muddy Creek stood for over 200 years. After being burned several times in the 20th century by vandals, all that was left in 2002 were the brick chimneys, which were bulldozed in November 2002. All that remains are a few bricks and part of the foundation, which is overgrown. The property is now owned by the Federal Government as part of Back Bay National Wildlife Refuge.\n\nGrace Sherwood's case was little known until Virginia Beach historian and author Louisa Venable Kyle wrote a children's book about her in 1973. Called \"The Witch of Pungo\", it is a collection of seven local folk tales written as fiction, although based on historical events. Sherwood's story was adapted for \"Cry Witch\", a courtroom drama at Colonial Williamsburg, the restored early capital of Virginia.\n\nA statue by California sculptor Robert Cunningham depicting Sherwood with a raccoon and a basket of rosemary was unveiled on April 21, 2007, on the site of the present-day Sentara Bayside Hospital, close to the sites of both the colonial courthouse and the ducking point. The raccoon represents Sherwood's love of animals and the rosemary her knowledge of herbal healing. A Virginia Department of Historic Resources marker (K-276) was erected in 2002, about from Sherwood's statue. The place of her watery test and the adjacent land are named Witch Duck Bay and Witch Duck Point. A portion of Virginia State Route 190 in Virginia Beach, a north–south thoroughfare on its western side which traverses Interstate 264 at exit numbers 14–16, has been named \"Witchduck Road\". Other commemorations in Virginia Beach include Sherwood Lane and Witch Point Trail. In 2014, a memorial marker was placed at a herb garden of the Old Donation Episcopal Church, Sherwood's former parish church, which is in Virginia Beach. A local legend in Virginia Beach states that all of the rosemary growing there came from a single plant Sherwood carried in an eggshell from England.\nBelinda Nash, in addition to writing a biography of Sherwood, worked tirelessly to get her pardoned. Governor Tim Kaine granted an informal pardon to \"officially restore the good name of Grace Sherwood\" on July 10, 2006, the 300th anniversary of her conviction. Annual reenactments of the ducking have taken place since 2006. No one is actually ducked in these events, which embark from a spot across from Ferry Plantation House along Cheswick Lane, which is very close to Witch Duck Bay. According to local residents, a strange moving light, said to be Sherwood's restless spirit, still appears each July over the spot in Witch Duck Bay where Sherwood was thrown into the water.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1994956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1994956", "title": "Hadji Murad", "text": "Hadji Murad\n\nHadji Murad (, ; late 1790s – April 23, N.S. May 5, 1852) was an important Avar leader during the resistance of the peoples of Dagestan and Chechnya in 1811–1864 against the incorporation of the region into the Russian Empire.\n\nHadji Murad was an Avar commander who lived in the Caucasus. He was foster-brother to Omar, Pakkou-Bekkhe, the Khanum of Khunzak's son. Hadji Murad was involved in the murder of Gamzat-bek during a Friday prayer in 1834, in revenge for Gamzat's murdering of the Khanum and her sons. Murad's brother, Osman, was slain in the fight with Gamzat-bek's Murids.\n\nHadji Murad supported the Russians for a while, to counter what he saw as the threat of Muridism. His rival, Akhmet Khan, set about undermining Russian confidence in Murad, until they ordered his arrest, which was carried out by Akhmet Khan. General Mikhail Semyonovich Vorontsov demanded that he be brought into general headquarters. Hadji Murad contrived to escape, by flinging himself over the ledge of a narrow mountain-pass. The Russians gave him up for dead. The snow, however, had broken his fall and he lay in hiding for the winter. Because of the Russian's bad faith, he decided to throw his lot in with Imam Shamil, who bestowed upon him the rank of naib. Many tribes followed Hadji Murad, defecting from the Russians.\n\nHis exploits and red dress earned him the nickname of the 'red devil' from the Russians. After an ineffectual raid on Russian headquarters at Temir-Khan-Shura, a rumour spread that he had slaughtered all the Russians in the hospital and cut them up into shashliks, which he left behind for the Russian troops to eat unawares. Though false, this rumour gained much credence among the Russians and vilified Hadji Murad's reputation.\n\nIn 1851, a feud broke out between him and Shamil, when Shamil proclaimed his son, Khazi Mohammed, as the successor. In a secret meeting, Shamil and his naibs decided that Hadji Murad should be killed. An unknown naib warned him and he managed to escape in time, but his family were held captive. Hadji Murad surrendered to the Russians, who lionised but mistrusted him. He repeatedly asked to be given men and guns to attack Shamil and rescue his family, but received no firm reply. He was allowed to move from Tbilisi to the small Muslim town of Noukkha (now Shaki, Azerbaijan) accompanied by a Cossack escort. Hadji Murad planned an escape, which he carried out on April 24 (Old style calendar), 1852, during one of his morning rides. The Cossack guards were ambushed and killed but the town's garrison, led by Colonel Karganov, tracked Hadji Murad down. The Russians were joined by many tribesmen, including Akhmet Khan's son and Hadji Murad was killed in the ensuing fight. The young Akhmet Khan cut off the head and sent it to Tbilisi, where it was embalmed and then sent to the Emperor. Tolstoy places Murad's death near the minaret of Belarjik (probably referring to the latterday town of Biləcik on the Shaki to Qax road) but a commemorative grave marker is further south near km76 on the Shaki-Zaqatala road. \n\nHadji Murad's severed head was finally sent to be kept at the Kunstkamera in St. Petersburg. In 2017, his descendants and activists in Dagestan petitioned to retrieve his skull from St. Petersburg and reunite it with the rest of his remains believed to be buried in modern Azerbaijan's Qakh District. The Russian government set up an interagency commission to consider the request.\n\nLeo Tolstoy's posthumously published novel \"Hadji Murad\" (1912) is a fictionalized account of Murad's struggle with the Russian Empire. His image also appears in \"My Dagestan\", a novel of the Avars writer Rasul Gamzatov.\n\n\"Agi Murad il diavolo bianco\" (1959) – in English, \"The White Warrior\" – is an Italian movie account of Murad's struggle with the Russian Empire. Murad is played by Steve Reeves.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "78388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78388", "title": "Harun al-Rashid", "text": "Harun al-Rashid\n\nHarun al-Rashid (; \"Hārūn Ar-Rašīd\"; \"Aaron the Orthodox\" or \"Aaron the Rightly-Guided,\" 17 March 763 or February 766 – 24 March 809 (148–193 Hijri)) was the fifth Abbasid Caliph. His birth date is debated, with various sources giving dates from 763 to 766. His epithet \"al-Rashid\" translates to \"the Orthodox,\" \"the Just,\" \"the Upright,\" or \"the Rightly-Guided.\" Al-Rashid ruled from 786 to 809, during the peak of the Islamic Golden Age. His time was marked by scientific, cultural, and religious prosperity. Islamic art and music also flourished significantly during his reign. He established the legendary library Bayt al-Hikma (\"House of Wisdom\") in Baghdad in present-day Iraq, and during his rule Baghdad began to flourish as a center of knowledge, culture and trade. During his rule, the family of Barmakids, which played a deciding role in establishing the Abbasid Caliphate, declined gradually. In 796, he moved his court and government to Raqqa in present-day Syria.\n\nA Frankish mission came to offer Harun friendship in 799. Harun sent various presents with the emissaries on their return to Charlemagne's court, including a clock that Charlemagne and his retinue deemed to be a conjuration because of the sounds it emanated and the tricks it displayed every time an hour ticked. The fictional \"The Book of One Thousand and One Nights\" is set in Harun's magnificent court and some of its stories involve Harun himself. Harun's life and court have been the subject of many other tales, both factual and fictitious.\n\nSome of the Twelver sect of Shia Muslims blame Harun for his supposed role in the murder of their 7th Imam (Musa ibn Ja'far).\n\nHārūn was born in Rey, then part of Jibal in the Abbasid Caliphate, in present-day Tehran Province, Iran. He was the son of al-Mahdi, the third Abbasid caliph (ruled 775 – 785), and al-Khayzuran, a former slave girl from Yemen, who was a woman of strong personality and who greatly influenced affairs of state in the reigns of her husband, mother and sons.\n\nBefore becoming caliph, in 780 and again in 782, Hārūn had already nominally led campaigns against the Caliphate's traditional enemy, the Eastern Roman Empire, which was under the rule of empress Irene of Athens. The latter expedition was a huge undertaking, and even reached the Asian suburbs of Constantinople.\n\nHārūn became caliph in 786 when he was in his early twenties. On the day of accession, his son al-Ma'mun was born, and al-Amin some little time later: the latter was the son of Zubaida, a granddaughter of al-Mansur (founder of the city of Baghdad); so he took precedence over the former, whose mother was a Persian. He began his reign by appointing very able ministers, who carried on the work of the government so well that they greatly improved the condition of the people.\n\nIt was under Hārūn ar-Rashīd that Baghdad flourished into the most splendid city of its period. Tribute was paid by many rulers to the caliph, and these funds were used on architecture, the arts and a luxurious life at court.\n\nIn 796, Hārūn decided to move his court and the government to Raqqa at the middle Euphrates. Here he spent 12 years, most of his reign. Only once did he return to Baghdad for a short visit. Several reasons might have influenced the decision to move to Raqqa. It was close to the Byzantine border. The communication lines via the Euphrates to Baghdad and via the Balikh river to the north and via Palmyra to Damascus were excellent. The agriculture was flourishing to support the new Imperial center. And from Raqqa any rebellion in Syria and the middle Euphrates area could be controlled. Abu al-Faraj al-Isfahani pictures in his anthology of poems the splendid life in his court. In Raqqa the Barmekids managed the fate of the empire, and there both heirs, al-Amin and al-Ma'mun grew up.\n\nFor the administration of the whole empire, he fell back on his mentor and longtime associate Yahya bin Khalid bin Barmak. Rashid appointed him as his vizier with full executive powers, and, for seventeen years, this man Yahya and his sons, served Rashid faithfully in whatever assignment he entrusted to them.\n\nHarun made pilgrimages to Mecca several times, e.g., 793, 795, 797, 802 and last in 803. Tabari concludes his account of Harun's reign with these words: \"It has been said that when Harun ar-Rashid died, there were nine hundred million odd (dirhams) in the state treasury.\"\n\nHārūn was influenced by the will of his mother in the governance of the empire until her death in 789. His vizier (chief minister) Yahya the Barmakid, Yahya's sons (especially Ja'far ibn Yahya), and other Barmakids generally controlled the administration. The position of Persians in the Abbasid caliphal court reached its peak during al-Rashid's reign.\n\nThe Barmakids were a Persian family (from Balkh) that dated back to the Barmak a hereditary Buddhist priest of Nava Vihara, who converted after the Islamic conquest of Balkh and became very powerful under al-Mahdi. Yahya had helped Hārūn in obtaining the caliphate, and he and his sons were in high favor until 798, when the caliph threw them in prison and confiscated their land. Muhammad ibn Jarir al-Tabari dates this in 803 and lists various accounts for the cause: Yahya's entering the Caliph's presence without permission; Yahya's opposition to Muhammad ibn al Layth, who later gained Harun's favour; and Ja'far's release of Yahya ibn Abdallah ibn Hasan, whom Harun had imprisoned.\n\nThe fall of the Barmakids is far more likely due to their behaving in a manner that Harun found disrespectful (such as entering his court unannounced) and making decisions in matters of state without first consulting him. Al-Fadl ibn al-Rabi succeeded Yahya the Barmakid as Harun's chief minister.\n\nBoth Einhard and Notker the Stammerer refer to envoys travelling between Harun's and Charlemagne's courts, amicable discussions concerning Christian access to the Holy Land and the exchange of gifts. Notker mentions Charlemagne sent Harun Spanish horses, colourful Frisian cloaks and impressive hunting dogs. In 802 Harun sent Charlemagne a present consisting of silks, brass candelabra, perfume, balsam, ivory chessmen, a colossal tent with many-colored curtains, an elephant named Abul-Abbas, and a water clock that marked the hours by dropping bronze balls into a bowl, as mechanical knights—one for each hour—emerged from little doors which shut behind them. The presents were unprecedented in Western Europe and may have influenced Carolingian art.\n\nWhen the Byzantine empress Irene was deposed in 802, Nikephoros I became emperor and refused to pay tribute to Harun, saying that Irene should have been receiving the tribute the whole time. News of this angered Harun, who wrote a message on the back of the Roman emperor's letter and said \"In the name of God the most merciful, From Amir al-Mu'minin Harun ar-Rashid, commander of the faithful, to Nikephoros, dog of the Romans. Thou shalt not hear, thou shalt behold my reply\". After campaigns in Asia Minor, Nikephoros was forced to conclude a treaty, with humiliating terms.\n\nAn alliance was established with the Chinese Tang dynasty by Ar-Rashid after he sent embassies to China. He was called \"A-lun\" in the Chinese Tang Annals. The alliance was aimed against the Tibetans.\n\nBecause of the \"Thousand and One Nights\" tales, Harun ar-Rashid turned into a legendary figure obscuring his true historic personality. In fact, his reign initiated the political disintegration of the Abbasid caliphate. Syria was inhabited by tribes with Umayyad sympathies and remained the bitter enemy of the Abbasids, while Egypt witnessed uprisings against Abbasids due to maladministration and arbitrary taxation. The Umayyads had been established in Spain in 755, the Idrisids in Morocco in 788, and the Aghlabids in Ifriqiya (modern Tunisia) in 800. Besides, unrest flared up in Yemen, and the Kharijites rose in rebellion in Daylam, Kerman, Fars and Sistan. Revolts also broke out in Khorasan, and ar-Rashid waged many campaigns against the Byzantines.\n\nAr-Rashid appointed Ali bin Isa bin Mahan as the governor of Khorasan, who tried to bring to heel the princes and chieftains of the region, and to reimpose the full authority of the central government on them. This new policy met with fierce resistance and provoked numerous uprisings in the region.\n\nA major revolt led by Rafi ibn al-Layth was started in Samarqand which forced Harun al-Rashid to move to Khorasan. He first removed and arrested Ali bin Isa bin Mahan but the revolt continued unchecked. Harun al-Rashid became ill and died very soon when he reached Sanabad village in Tus and was buried in Dar al-Imarah, the summer palace of Humayd ibn Qahtaba, the Abbasid governor of Khorasan. Due to this historical event, the Dar al-Imarah was known as the Mausoleum of Haruniyyeh. The location later became known as Mashhad (\"The Place of Martyrdom\") because of the martyrdom of Imam ar-Ridha in 818.\n\nAl-Rashid virtually dismembered the empire by apportioning it between his two sons al-Amin and al-Ma'mun (with his third son, al-Qasim, being belatedly added after them). Very soon it became clear that by dividing the empire, Rashid had actually helped to set the opposing parties against one another, and had provided them with sufficient resources to become independent of each other. After the death of Harun al-Rashid, civil war broke out in the empire between his two sons, al-Amin and al-Ma'mun, which spiralled into a prolonged period of turmoil and warfare throughout the Caliphate, ending only with Ma'mun's final triumph in 827.\n\nMany anecdotes attached themselves to the person of Harun al-Rashid in the centuries following his rule. Saadi of Shiraz inserted a number of them into his Gulistan, in one telling how Harun enjoined his son to forgiveness.\n\nAl-Masudi relates a number of interesting anecdotes in \"The Meadows of Gold\" illuminating the character of this caliph. For example, he recounts Harun's delight when his horse came in first, closely followed by al-Ma'mun's, at a race Harun held at Raqqa. Al-Masudi tells the story of Harun setting his poets a challenging task. When others failed to please him, Miskin of Medina succeeded superbly well. The poet then launched into a moving account of how much it had cost him to learn that song. Harun laughed saying he knew not which was more entertaining, the song or the story. He rewarded the poet.\n\nThere is also the tale of Harun asking Ishaq ibn Ibrahim to keep singing. The musician did until the caliph fell asleep. Then, strangely, a handsome young man appeared, snatched the musician's lute, sang a very moving piece (al-Masudi quotes it), and left. On awakening and being informed of this, Harun said Ishaq ibn Ibrahim had received a supernatural visitation.\n\nThere is a street in Cairo, Egypt named after his name, located in Masr El-Gdida.\n\nShortly before he died, Harun is said to have been reading some lines by Abu al-Atahiya about the transitory nature of the power and pleasures of this world, an anecdote related about other caliphs as well.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38880814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38880814", "title": "Heinrich Berutz", "text": "Heinrich Berutz\n\nHeinrich Berütz (12 August 1910 – 1985?) was a German-Polish Wehrmacht soldier, with rank of Gefreiter in years 1937–1942 and later a soldier in the SS with the rank of Scharführer, in 1942-1944, in Warsaw and Auschwitz. He was accused of abusing Jewish and Polish civilians in Warsaw. The accusations have never been confirmed.\n\nBerütz was born in Ochelhermsdorf in west Prussia. His parents emigrated from Poland. He grew up with Polish traditions speaking the Polish Language.\n\nAt age four his father Siegfried, (then major of Ochelhermsdorf) served as a field medic in World War I voluntarily. From 1928 to 1934 Berütz learned medicine from his father. In 1935 Berütz Joined NSDAP \n\nIn 1937 Berütz joined the German Army, thanks to his medical education, initially serving as a field medic. Berütz first fought in 1940, in Battle of the Netherlands. He was awarded an Iron cross and promoted to Gefreiter. When the Allied line of defense in Benelux was broken, Berütz take part in the Occupation of Paris. In 1942 Berütz's division was dissolved and he joined the SS and transferred to occupied Warsaw\n\nIn Warsaw, Heinrich Berütz achieved the rank of Scharführer. Together with his SS group, he took part in the deportation of Jews to Auschwitz. During this period Berütz tried to hide his Polish roots. Berütz experienced mental breakdown because of the cruelty of his own soldiers towards Polish citizens.\n"}
{"id": "44630549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44630549", "title": "International Bodo Festival", "text": "International Bodo Festival\n\nInternational Bodo Festival is a traditional festival of the Bodo-Kachari people. It helds on every year in the different parts of Northeast India. Many tribesman of the Bodo race performs at this festival. It includes Bagurumba dance of Bodo people, Wangala dance of the Garo people and Bohuwa dance of the Sonowals etc.\n"}
{"id": "9731588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9731588", "title": "Jeanne Eagels (film)", "text": "Jeanne Eagels (film)\n\nJeanne Eagels (also titled The Jeanne Eagels Story) is a 1957 American biographical film loosely based on the life of stage star Jeanne Eagels. Distributed by Columbia Pictures, the film was produced and directed by George Sidney from a screenplay by John Fante, Daniel Fuchs and Sonya Levien, based on a story by Fuchs.\n\nThe film stars Kim Novak in the title role. Jeff Chandler, Charles Drake, Agnes Moorehead, Larry Gates, Virginia Grey, Gene Lockhart and Murray Hamilton co-star.\n\nMany aspects of Eagels' real life were omitted or largely fictionalized. Eagels' family later sued Columbia Pictures over the way Eagels was depicted in the film.\n\nJeanne Eagels is a Kansas City waitress. After losing a carnival's beauty contest, she asks carny owner Sal Satori for a job. Her dancing in a skimpy costume is accused of being obscene. Sal decides to join his brother in New York and invites Jeanne to join them in an amusement park at Coney Island.\n\nTaking acting lessons instead, the ambitious Jeanne becomes the understudy in a Broadway show and a star when she gets a chance to play the part. A once successful actress named Elsie Desmond wants to make a comeback in a new play, but Jeanne betrays her and takes the play for herself, willing to do anything to get ahead. Elsie denounces her in the theater before the first performance, then commits suicide. Sal is disgusted by Jeanne's behavior as well. She accepts a proposal from a ne'er-do-well named John Donahue, but both descend into alcoholism. Jeanne misses performances and causes fellow actors to lose out on paychecks.\n\nHer situation deteriorates further when she's required to pay alimony to John after a divorce. A new play fails because Jeanne, drunk and on pills, collapses on stage. The actors' guild suspends her for 18 months. Unable to work, she returns to Sal's amusement park and is offered a job dancing. Another performer sexually assaults her in a dressing room. Jeanne, her life in ruins, continues to spiral downward and hallucinate. While trying to make it to a stage one night, she collapses on the staircase and dies.\n\nThe film was long planned as a vehicle for Kim Novak. Jeff Chandler had just finished a long term exclusive contract with Universal and played the male lead.\n\nNovak's dress caught on fire during filming and Chandler had to put it out.\n\n\nSony Pictures Home Entertainment released \"Jeanne Eagels\" on August 3, 2010, as part of its \"Kim Novak Collection.\" The box set also includes the films \"Picnic\" (1956); \"Bell, Book and Candle\" (1958); \"Middle of the Night\" (1959); and \"Pal Joey\" (1957).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11732617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11732617", "title": "Jimmy Allen", "text": "Jimmy Allen\n\nJames Allen (born March 6, 1952) is a former American football player who was drafted in the 4th round by the Pittsburgh Steelers in the 1974 NFL Draft. A 1970 graduate of Los Angeles High School, Allen played college football at Pierce College and UCLA. Allen was selected by the Pittsburgh Steelers in their celebrated 1974 draft. He played for the Steelers for four seasons, where he was a member of their Super Bowls IX & X teams. He was traded to the Detroit Lions in 1978. His nickname during his playing career was \"Spiderman.\" He was the lead singer on the Lions' 1980 recording of Another One Bites the Dust. \nBriefly homeless at one time, Allen currently lives in southern California. \nAllen was elected to the Pierce College Hall of Fame in 2012.\n"}
{"id": "20572820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20572820", "title": "John Carpenter filmography", "text": "John Carpenter filmography\n\nJohn Carpenter is an American film director, producer, writer and composer. He has contributed to many projects as either the producer, writer, director, actor, composer or a combination of the five.\n\nThis is a list of films directed by John Carpenter that grossed more than $10 million at the US box office according to Box Office Mojo. Carpenter's films have grossed domestically a total of more than $282 million, with an average of $18 million per film.\n\n"}
{"id": "13107291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13107291", "title": "John Lebar", "text": "John Lebar\n\nJohn Lebar is a British actor known for his giant stature; standing at .\n\nIn 2007 he starred as a plague doctor in \"The Sick House\".\n\nLebar portrays one of the Space Jockey aliens seen in Ridley Scott's 2012 science fiction film, \"Prometheus\".\n\n"}
{"id": "34273109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34273109", "title": "Joseph O. Hirschfelder", "text": "Joseph O. Hirschfelder\n\nJoseph Oakland Hirschfelder (May 27, 1911 – March 30, 1990) was an American physicist who participated in the Manhattan Project and in the creation of the nuclear bomb. Robert Oppenheimer assembled a team at the Los Alamos Laboratory to work on plutonium gun design Thin Man, that included senior engineer Edwin McMillan and senior physicists Charles Critchfield and Joseph Hirschfelder. Hirschfelder had been working on internal ballistics. Oppenheimer led the design effort himself until June 1943, when Navy Captain William Sterling Parsons arrived took over the Ordnance and Engineering Division and direct management of the \"Thin Man\" project.\nHirschfelder was a member of the National Academy of Sciences, a group leader in theoretical physics and ordnance at the Los Alamos Atomic Bomb Laboratory, chief phenomenologist at the nuclear bomb tests at Bikini, the founder of the Theoretical Chemistry Institute and the Homer Adkins professor emeritus of chemistry at the University of Wisconsin.\nHirschfelder was also a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He was awarded the National Medal of Science from President Gerald Ford “for his fundamental contributions to atomic and molecular quantum mechanics, the theory of the rates of chemical reactions, and the structure and properties of gases and liquids.”\n\nThe National Academies Press called him \"one of the leading figures in theoretical chemistry during the period 1935-90\".\" \nIn 1991 an award was established in his name by the University of Wisconsin's Theoretical Chemistry Institute - the annual Joseph O. Hirschfelder Prize in Theoretical Chemistry. He was an elected member of the International Academy of Quantum Molecular Science. His book \"Molecular theory of gases and liquids\" is an authoritative text on the kinetic theories of gases and liquids.\n\nHirschfelder completed his undergraduate studies at the University of Minnesota from 1927 to 1929 and at Yale University from 1929 to 1931. Hirschfelder received doctorates in physics and chemistry from Princeton University under the direction of Eugene Wigner, Henry Eyring and Hugh Stott Taylor. He worked as a Postdoctoral fellow with John von Neumann for a year after his PhD at the Institute for Advanced Study. In 1937, he moved to University of Wisconsin and stayed there until retirement in 1981, except during the world war II.\n\n\nJoseph O. Hirschfelder Prize is awarded annually by the Department of Chemistry at the University of Wisconsin in honor of Hirschfelder.\n"}
{"id": "321059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=321059", "title": "Lea Salonga", "text": "Lea Salonga\n\nMaria Lea Carmen Imutan Salonga, (; born February 22, 1971) is a Filipina singer and actress best known for her roles in musical theatre, for supplying the singing voices of two Disney Princesses, and as a recording artist and television performer.\n\nAt age 18, she originated the lead role of Kim in the musical \"Miss Saigon\", first in the West End and then on Broadway, winning the Olivier and Theatre World Awards, and becoming the first Asian woman to win a Tony Award. Salonga is the first Filipino artist to sign with an international record label (Atlantic Records in 1993). She is also the first Philippine-based artist to have received a major album release and distribution deal in the United States, and one of the best-selling Filipino artists of all time, having sold over 19 million copies of her albums worldwide.\n\nSalonga was the first actress of Asian descent to play the roles of Éponine and Fantine in the musical \"Les Misérables\" on Broadway. She also portrayed Éponine and Fantine, respectively, in the musical's 10th and concerts in London. She provided the singing voices of two official Disney Princesses: Jasmine in \"Aladdin\" (1992) and Fa Mulan in \"Mulan\" (1998). She was named a Disney Legend in 2011 for her work with The Walt Disney Company. Salonga starred as Mei-li in the 2002 Broadway version of \"Flower Drum Song\". She has played numerous other stage, film and TV roles in the US, the Philippines and elsewhere. She has toured widely in the title role of \"Cinderella\", among other roles, and as a concert artist. From 2015 to 2016, she returned to Broadway in \"Allegiance\", and from 2017 to 2018 she appeared in the Broadway revival of \"Once on This Island\".\n\nMaría Lea Carmen Imutan Salonga was born at Medical Center Manila in Ermita, Manila, to Feliciano Genuino Salonga, a naval Rear admiral and shipping company owner (1929–2016), and his wife, María Ligaya Alcantara, \"née\" Imutan. She spent the first six years of her childhood in Angeles City before moving to Manila. Her brother, Gerard Salonga, is a conductor.\n\nShe made her professional debut in 1978 at the age of seven in the musical \"The King and I\" with Repertory Philippines. She played the title role in \"Annie\" in 1980 and appeared in other productions such as \"Cat on a Hot Tin Roof\", \"Fiddler on the Roof\", \"The Sound of Music\", \"The Rose T\", \"The Goodbye Girl\" (1982), \"Paper Moon\" (1983) and \"The Fantasticks\" (1988). In 1981, she recorded her first album, \"Small Voice\", which was certified gold in the Philippines. In 1985, she and her brother took part in the eighth Metro Manila Popular Music Festival as the interpreters for the song entry titled \"Musika, Lata, Sipol at La La La\" which was composed by Tess Concepcion.\n\nDuring the 1980s, Salonga also had several television projects through GMA Radio Television Arts where she worked as a child actor and teen idol. After the success of her first album, from 1983 to 1985, she hosted her own musical television show, \"Love, Lea\", and was a member of the cast of German Moreno's teen variety show \"That's Entertainment\". She acted in films, which included the family-oriented \"Tropang Bulilit\", \"Like Father, Like Son\", \"Ninja Kids\", \"Captain Barbell\" and \"Pik Pak Boom\". As a young performer, Salonga received a Filipino Academy of Movie Arts and Sciences (FAMAS) award nomination for Best Child Actress, and three Aliw Awards for best child performer in 1980, 1981 and 1982. She released her second album, \"Lea\", in 1988.\n\nShe also opened for, and performed with, international acts such as Menudo and Stevie Wonder in their concerts in Manila in 1985 and in 1988, respectively.\n\nShe finished her secondary education in 1988 at the O. B. Montessori Center in Greenhills, San Juan, Metro Manila, where she was a Bergamo 1 Student and an active participant in school productions. She also attended the University of the Philippines College of Music's extension program aimed at training musically talented children in music and stage movement. A college freshman studying biology at the Ateneo de Manila University when she auditioned for \"Miss Saigon\", she intended to have a medical career. Later, in between jobs in New York, she took two courses at Fordham University's Lincoln Center.\n\nIn 1989 Salonga was selected to play Kim in the debut production of the musical \"Miss Saigon\" in London. Unable to find a strong enough East Asian actress/singer in the United Kingdom, the producers scoured many countries looking for the lead. For her audition, the then 17-year-old Salonga chose to sing Boublil and Claude-Michel Schönberg's \"On My Own\" from \"Les Misérables\" and was later asked to sing \"Sun and Moon\", impressing the audition panel. Salonga has sometimes credited \"On My Own\" as the starting point of her international career. She competed for the role with childhood friend and fellow Repertory Philippines performer Monique Wilson. Salonga won the lead role, while Wilson was named her understudy and given the role of the bar girl Mimi.\n\nFor her performance as Kim, Salonga won the 1990 Laurence Olivier Award for Best Performance by an Actress in a Musical. When \"Miss Saigon\" opened on Broadway in 1991, she again played the role of Kim, winning the Drama Desk, Outer Critics Circle and Theatre World Awards and becoming the first woman of Asian descent to win a Tony Award. In 1993 and 1996, she returned to play Kim on Broadway. In 1999, she was invited back to London to close the West End production, and in 2001, at the age of 29 and after finishing the Manila run of the musical, Salonga returned to Broadway to close that production.\n\nIn 1990, Salonga performed in a homecoming concert in Manila entitled \"A Miss Called Lea\". She also received a Presidential Award of Merit from President Corazon Aquino. In 1991, she was named as one of \"People\" magazine's 50 Most Beautiful People. In 1992, she performed the singing voice of Princess Jasmine in Disney's animated film \"Aladdin\".\n\nIn 1993, Salonga played the role of Éponine in the Broadway production of \"Les Misérables\". She performed the song \"A Whole New World\" from \"Aladdin\" with Brad Kane at the 65th Annual Academy Awards in Los Angeles, where the song won an Oscar, having already won a Golden Globe Award. That same year, she released her self-titled international debut album with Atlantic Records, which had modest sales in the US but went platinum in the Philippines and sold 3 million copies worldwide. In 1994, Salonga played in various musical theatre productions in the Philippines and Singapore, such as Sandy in \"Grease\", Eliza Doolittle in \"My Fair Lady\" and the Witch in \"Into the Woods\".\n\nBack in the US in 1995, Salonga played the role of Geri Riordan, an 18-year-old adopted Vietnamese American child in the Hallmark Hall of Fame TV movie \"Redwood Curtain\", which starred John Lithgow and Jeff Daniels. She then flew back to the Philippines to star with Filipino matinée idol Aga Muhlach in the critically acclaimed film \"Sana Maulit Muli\", which gave her a second Filipino Academy of Movie Arts and Sciences (FAMAS) award nomination, this time for Best Actress. She played the role of Éponine in the 10th anniversary production of \"Les Mis\" called \"\" at London's Royal Albert Hall.\n\nIn 1996, Salonga was in \"Les Misérables\" once again as Éponine in the London production of the musical, then continued on to perform the role in the musical's US national tour. In the Philippines in 1999, and again in 2000, she played Sonia Walsk in \"They're Playing Our Song\".\n\nFrom 1997 to 2000, Salonga did recordings and concerts in the Philippines and another engagement in London, in addition to a few returns to \"Miss Saigon\" in London and on Broadway. In 1997, she released \"I'd Like to Teach The World to Sing\" (recordings from her childhood days) to gold sales in the Philippines. That recording was followed by \"Lea... In Love\" in 1998 and \"By Heart\" in 2000, with both albums reaching multiple platinum status in the Philippines. In 1998, she again lent her voice to a major Disney animated film, singing the title character in \"Mulan\", also providing the character's singing voice in the 2004 sequel, \"Mulan II\". At the age of 28, Salonga moved to New York City, purchasing her own apartment (which she still owns up to at least 2013). She participated in the 1998 tribute concert to Sir Cameron Mackintosh in London called \"Hey Mr. Producer: The Musical World of Cameron MacKintosh\", where she did numbers from several of his musicals. She also performed in four concerts: \"The Homecoming Concert\", \"The Millennium Concert\", \"The Best of Manila\" and \"Songs from the Screen\" – the last two being benefit shows. Salonga returned to Manila in \"Miss Saigon\", staged at the Cultural Center of the Philippines at the end of 2000.\n\nAfter a last stint in \"Miss Saigon\" for its closing on Broadway in 2001, Salonga recreated the role of Lien Hughes originally played by Ming-Na Wen in the soap opera \"As the World Turns\". After completing her contract that year, she was asked to return to the role in 2003. She guested on Russell Watson's \"The Voice\" concert, narrated for the television special \"My America: A Poetry Atlas of the United States\", and appeared on the Christmas episode of the TV medical drama \"ER\", playing a patient with lymphoma.\n\nIn 2002, Salonga returned to Broadway to play the leading role of Mei-li, a Chinese immigrant in a reinterpretation of Rodgers and Hammerstein's \"Flower Drum Song\" opposite Jose Llana. This was after the reinvented musical had a run at the Mark Taper Forum in Los Angeles in 2001 with Salonga playing the role and in 2002 winning Lead Actress in a Musical from the Los Angeles theatre Ovation Awards. The Salonga-led Broadway revival cast album was nominated for a 2004 Grammy Award for Best Musical Show Album. Salonga's performance was received positively by theatre critics in New York, and she received a nomination for \"Distinguished Performance\" from the Drama League, among other honors. Between the 2001 Los Angeles and 2002 Broadway productions of \"Flower Drum Song\", she performed in a non-musical theatrical production for the first time, playing the role of Catherine in the stage play \"Proof\" in Manila. This was followed by a major concert, \"The Broadway Concert\", at the Philippine International Convention Center. She also sang at the 56th Tony Awards with Harry Connick, Jr., Peter Gallagher and Michele Lee in a number paying tribute to Richard Rodgers.\n\nIn 2003 to 2004, Salonga did her first \"all-Filipino\" concerts in Manila called \"Songs from Home\", which later won her an Aliw Award as \"Entertainer of the Year\". In 2003, she performed in several concerts at the Mohegan Sun hotel in Connecticut. This was followed by a Christmas concert in the Philippines, called \"Home for Christmas\", and performances at the Lenape Regional Performing Arts Center in Marlton, New Jersey, in 2004. Later in 2004, she played Lizzie in the Manila production of the musical \"Baby\", which earned her another nomination from the Aliw Awards.\n\nIn 2005, Salonga gave her first US concert tour. Later that year, she performed to a sold-out crowd at Carnegie Hall for the benefit of Diverse City Theater Company. The same year, she received the Golden Artist Award at the 53rd FAMAS Awards in honor of her international achievements, performed during the grand opening of Hong Kong's Disneyland and recorded two songs on Daniel Rodriguez's album \"In the Presence\". She also did voice work for Disney's English dub of Hayao Miyazaki's \"My Neighbor Totoro\" as Yasuko Kusakabe. Salonga wrote the foreword to Linda Marquart's \"The Right Way to Sing\" (2005). In 2006, at the 15th Asian Games in Doha, Qatar, Salonga concluded the closing ceremony with the song \"Triumph of the One\" before an audience of 50,000 people at the Khalifa Stadium.\n\nIn 2007, Salonga released her first studio album in seven years called \"Inspired\", which was certified platinum in the Philippines She received the \"Order of Lakandula\", with the rank of Commander (\"Komandante\"), from Philippine president Arroyo in recognition of using her talents to benefit Philippine society and foster cultural exchange. She has also received the Congressional Medal of Achievement from the House of Representatives of the Philippines. She returned to Broadway for another stint in the musical \"Les Misérables\", this time as Fantine. Her rejoining the show boosted the musical's ticket sales. President Arroyo watched Salonga in this role, together with Filipino Americans Adam Jacobs as Marius and Ali Ewoldt as Cosette. Salonga received rave reviews and made it again to the short list of Broadway.com's Audience Award favorites as Best Replacement. During her tenure on Broadway that season, she appeared in Broadway on Broadway 2007 and Stars in the Alley 2007, spoke at the Broadway Artists Alliance Summer Intensives, guested on the Broadway musical \"25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee\", and participated in Broadway Cares / Equity Fights AIDS' \"12th Annual Nothing Like a Dame\" event to benefit the women's health initiative of The Actors Fund. Right after doing \"Les Misérables\", she performed in two events: at the US Military Academy Band's concert in West Point where she sang four songs and an encore and in her own concert at the Tarrytown Music Hall in New York. She was then busy with other concerts and musical events, including a Christmas presentation in Manila. \n\nIn 2008, Salonga gave concerts in the Philippines California, Hawaii, Hong Kong and Guam, and she played the title role in Broadway Asia Entertainment's international tour of Rodgers & Hammerstein's \"Cinderella\".\n\nOn 3 July 2008, Salonga became a columnist in the \"Philippine Daily Inquirer\" with her column \"Backstory\" (Entertainment section), \"Introducing: Lea Salonga, writer\". Since then she has written numerous columns for the \"Inquirer\". She performed in \"Global Pop\" at the Music Center on July 11, 2008. It was presented by The Blue Ribbon a group founded by Dorothy Chandler in 1968. Salonga gave a concert on July 11 at Los Angeles' Walt Disney Concert Hall. That same year she received a special citation from Awit Awards, the Philippines' version of Grammys.\n\nFrom late July 2008 to mid-2009, Salonga played the title role in the 30-week Asian tour of Rodgers and Hammerstein's \"Cinderella\", which premiered in Manila. Salonga performed a series of concerts in North America in 2009 and was also asked to dance the Filipino novelty dances \"Ocho-ocho\" and \"Spaghetti\". The same year, Salonga advertised the Avon Products line of anti-aging skin care products Anew Rejuvenate in the Philippines. In June 2009, she sang at the 95th Anniversary Special of the Iglesia Ni Cristo. Salonga sang Patriotic song \"Bayan Ko\" at the Requiem Mass for former President Corazon Aquino at Manila Cathedral. Salonga celebrated 20 years of \"Miss Saigon\" by performing in concerts called \"Lea Salonga... Your Songs\", at the Philippine International Convention Center Plenary Hall on December 11 and 12, 2009. Her brother, Gerard, was musical director.\n\nFrom July to August 2010, Salonga played the role of Grizabella in the Manila run of the Asia-Pacific tour of Andrew Lloyd Webber's \"Cats\" at the Cultural Center of the Philippines. In October, she played Fantine during the , fifteen years after appearing in the 10th Anniversary as Eponine. The same year, she served as a celebrity judge for Avon Voices, Avon's first ever global, online singing talent search for women and songwriting competition for men and women.\n\nSalonga was honored as a Disney Legend on August 19, 2011. She was one of the judges in the 60th Miss Universe 2011 Beauty Pageant in São Paulo, Brazil on 12 September 2011. Salonga, along with Darren Criss, sang \"A Whole New World\" to its composer, Alan Menken, as Menken was named the winner of the 2011 Maestro Award at the Billboard/Hollywood Reporter Film & TV Music Conference on October 24, 2011.\n\nSalonga performed in a six-concert series titled \"The Magic of Broadway and Disney Favorites\" in 2012 with the Palm Beach Pops. She starred in the first production of \"Allegiance\", at the Old Globe Theatre in San Diego from September to October 2012. Salonga starred in the Philippine production of the comedy \"God of Carnage\" from July 2012 at the Carlos P. Romulo Auditorium, RCBC Plaza, Manila. She took on the same role at the DBS Arts Centre in Singapore, in November 2012. Salonga joined the Candlelight Processional at Epcot in Walt Disney World as narrator on December 14 to 16, retelling the Christmas story accompanied by a 50-piece orchestra and a mass choir.\n\nOn January 30, 2013, Salonga took part on the 2013 season of Lincoln Center's American Songbook concert series at the Allen Room. In the Philippines, Salonga provided the theme song for TV5's reality singing competition \"Kanta Pilipinas\" which premiered on February 8. On February 18, Salonga, Tyne Daly and Norm Lewis starred in a concert performance of \"Ragtime\" at Lincoln Center’s Avery Fisher Hall. Salonga played Mother. Salonga headlined a concert series, “4 Stars One World of Broadway Musicals,” in Tokyo from June 15–23, and in Osaka from June 27–30. She performed with, Ramin Karimloo, Sierra Boggess, and Yu Shirota.\n\nShe was one of the four coaches, together with apl.de.ap, Sarah Geronimo and Bamboo Manalac for the ABS-CBN program, \"The Voice of the Philippines\", which premiered on June 15, 2013. In December 2013, Salonga began a concert tour in the Philippines titled \"Lea Salonga: Playlist\" that celebrated her 35 years in show business. The concert series was extended to January 2014. Salonga wrote a book, \"Playlist: A Celebration of 35 Years\", which she used as a souvenir program for the concerts and sells on her website.\n\nIn 2014, she returned for the second season of \"The Voice of the Philippines\" and also joined the new Philippine version of \"The Voice Kids\", on which she has appeared for three seasons, as of 2016. Salonga recorded a song called \"Wished That I Could Call You\" that was included in the charity compilation album \"Children In Need\", released in March 2014. Also in 2014–15, she toured in Asia and North America with Il Divo. In mid-2015, she headlined her own concert series in Australasia. Salonga reprised her role as Kei Kimura in the 2015–16 Broadway production of \"Allegiance\". Charles Isherwood wrote in \"The New York Times\" of her performance: \"Her voice retains its plush beauty, and her culminating first act solo, \"Higher\" ... is perhaps the show’s musical highlight.\"\n\nSalonga guest-starred on the April 18, 2016 season finale of the American television series \"Crazy Ex-Girlfriend\". She played Helen Bechdel in the international premiere of \"Fun Home\" in November 2016 in Manila. A review in ABS-CBN News said that she \"delivers a finely tuned performance, utilizing her prodigious stage presence to provide the cold and dark shadings to erstwhile peppy scenes with her subtle stares and held back emotions. ... [In] \"Days by Days\" ... she finally lets go of all the resentment and repressed anger of a woman stuck in a marriage built on a lie. Yet there is dignity in her breakdown ... Salonga pulls it off with such clarity, both musically and emotionally, that it's difficult not to be moved.\n\nIn 2016 she won two more Aliw Awards, one for Best Major Concert in a Foreign Venue and her second Entertainer of the Year award. The following year, Salonga was one of the coaches on \"The Voice Teens\". Also in 2017, she released an album, \"Bahaghari: Lea Salonga Sings Traditional Songs of the Philippines\", with songs sung in several languages spoken in the Philippines. Salonga portrayed Erzulie in 2017–2018 in the Broadway revival of \"Once on This Island\" at Circle in the Square Theatre, where she received critical praise for her vocal performance.\n\nOn January 10, 2004, Salonga married Robert Charles Chien, a Chinese-Japanese managing director of an entertainment software company in Los Angeles, California, whom she met while doing \"Flower Drum Song\". They have a daughter, Nicole Beverly Chien, who was born in 2006, named after Salonga's late mother-in-law, Beverly. Nicole has performed alongside Salonga in the musical \"Matilda\". She is also an avid video game enthusiast, and has mentioned her love for the hobby in several of her print articles. She resides in the Philippines and the United States.\n\nOn October 15, 2010, Salonga was appointed Goodwill Ambassador for the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO).\n\nSalonga has a soprano range from D3 to C6. She has been praised for control over her powerful vocals which can evoke a wide array of emotion and soundscapes. In her popular music releases, Salonga has sung \"simple love songs\", which is common in traditional Original Pilipino Music. In both Disney princess singing roles, Salonga showcases her head tones which reach up to F5. Salonga's breakout role as Kim in \"Miss Saigon\" utilized her voice from the top to the bottom.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44004887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44004887", "title": "Leon Dubus", "text": "Leon Dubus\n\nLeon Dubus (18 February 1894 – 19 October 1981) was a French philatelist who was added to the Roll of Distinguished Philatelists in 1957.\n"}
{"id": "26586083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26586083", "title": "Lewis Carroll", "text": "Lewis Carroll\n\nCharles Lutwidge Dodgson (; 27 January 1832 – 14 January 1898), better known by his pen name Lewis Carroll, was an English writer of world-famous children's fiction, notably \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\" and its sequel \"Through the Looking-Glass\". He was noted for his facility at word play, logic and fantasy. The poems \"Jabberwocky\" and \"The Hunting of the Snark\" are classified in the genre of literary nonsense. He was also a mathematician, photographer and Anglican deacon.\n\nCarroll came from a family of high church Anglicans, and developed a long relationship with Christ Church, Oxford, where he lived for most of his life as a scholar and teacher. Alice Liddell, daughter of the Dean of Christ Church, Henry Liddell, is widely identified as the original for \"Alice in Wonderland\", though Carroll always denied this.\n\nDodgson's family was predominantly northern English (with Irish connections), conservative and high church Anglican. Most of Dodgson's male ancestors were army officers or Church of England clergy. His great-grandfather, also named Charles Dodgson, had risen through the ranks of the church to become the Bishop of Elphin. His paternal grandfather, another Charles, had been an army captain, killed in action in Ireland in 1803 when his two sons were hardly more than babies. The older of these sons – yet another Charles Dodgson – was Carroll's father. He went to Westminster School and then to Christ Church, Oxford. He reverted to the other family tradition and took holy orders. He was mathematically gifted and won a double first degree, which could have been the prelude to a brilliant academic career. Instead, he married his first cousin Frances Jane Lutwidge in 1830 and became a country parson.\nDodgson was born in the small parsonage at Daresbury in Cheshire near the towns of Warrington and Runcorn, the eldest boy but already the third child. Eight more children followed. When Charles was 11, his father was given the living of Croft-on-Tees in North Yorkshire, and the whole family moved to the spacious rectory. This remained their home for the next 25 years.\n\nCharles's father was an active and highly conservative cleric of the Church of England who later became the Archdeacon of Richmond and involved himself, sometimes influentially, in the intense religious disputes that were dividing the church. He was high church, inclining toward Anglo-Catholicism, an admirer of John Henry Newman and the Tractarian movement, and did his best to instil such views in his children. Young Charles was to develop an ambiguous relationship with his father's values and with the Church of England as a whole.\n\nDuring his early youth, Dodgson was educated at home. His \"reading lists\" preserved in the family archives testify to a precocious intellect: at the age of seven, he was reading books such as \"The Pilgrim's Progress\". He also suffered from a stammer – a condition shared by most of his siblings – that often influenced his social life throughout his years. At the age of twelve, he was sent to Richmond Grammar School (now part of Richmond School) at nearby Richmond.\n\nIn 1846, Dodgson entered Rugby School where he was evidently unhappy, as he wrote some years after leaving:\n\nDodgson did not claim he suffered from bullying but cited little boys as the main targets of older bullies at Rugby. Stewart Dodgson Collingwood, who was Dodgson's nephew, wrote that \"even though it is hard for those who have only known him as the gentle and retiring don to believe it, it is nevertheless true that long after he left school, his name was remembered as that of a boy who knew well how to use his fists in defense of a righteous cause\", which is the protection of the smaller boys.\n\nScholastically, though, he excelled with apparent ease. \"I have not had a more promising boy at his age since I came to Rugby\", observed mathematics master R. B. Mayor. Francis Walkingame's \"The Tutor's Assistant; Being a Compendium of Arithmetic\" – the mathematics textbook that the young Dodgson used – still survives and it contained an inscription in Latin, which translates to: \"This book belongs to Charles Lutwidge Dodgson: hands off!\" Some pages also included annotations such as the one found in p. 129, where he wrote \"Not a fair question in decimals\" next to a question.\n\nHe left Rugby at the end of 1849 and matriculated at the University of Oxford in May 1850 as a member of his father's old college, Christ Church. After waiting for rooms in college to become available, he went into residence in January 1851. He had been at Oxford only two days when he received a summons home. His mother had died of \"inflammation of the brain\" – perhaps meningitis or a stroke – at the age of 47.\n\nHis early academic career veered between high promise and irresistible distraction. He did not always work hard but was exceptionally gifted and achievement came easily to him. In 1852, he obtained first-class honours in Mathematics Moderations and was shortly thereafter nominated to a Studentship by his father's old friend Canon Edward Pusey. In 1854, he obtained first-class honours in the Final Honours School of Mathematics, standing first on the list, graduating Bachelor of Arts. He remained at Christ Church studying and teaching, but the next year he failed an important scholarship through his self-confessed inability to apply himself to study. Even so, his talent as a mathematician won him the Christ Church Mathematical Lectureship in 1855, which he continued to hold for the next 26 years. Despite early unhappiness, Dodgson was to remain at Christ Church, in various capacities, until his death, including that of Sub-Librarian of the Christ Church library, where his office was close to the Deanery, where Alice Liddell lived.\n\nThe young adult Charles Dodgson was about tall and slender, and he had curly brown hair and blue or grey eyes (depending on the account). He was described in later life as somewhat asymmetrical, and as carrying himself rather stiffly and awkwardly, although this might be on account of a knee injury sustained in middle age. As a very young child, he suffered a fever that left him deaf in one ear. At the age of 17, he suffered a severe attack of whooping cough, which was probably responsible for his chronically weak chest in later life. Another defect which he carried into adulthood was what he referred to as his \"hesitation\", a stammer that he acquired in early childhood and which plagued him throughout his life.\n\nThe stammer has always been a significant part of the image of Dodgson. It is said that he stammered only in adult company and was free and fluent with children, but there is no evidence to support this idea. Many children of his acquaintance remembered the stammer, while many adults failed to notice it. Dodgson himself seems to have been far more acutely aware of it than most people whom he met; it is said that he caricatured himself as the Dodo in \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\", referring to his difficulty in pronouncing his last name, but this is one of the many \"facts\" often repeated for which no first-hand evidence remains. He did indeed refer to himself as the dodo, but whether or not this reference was to his stammer is simply speculation.\n\nDodgson's stammer did trouble him, but it was never so debilitating that it prevented him from applying his other personal qualities to do well in society. He lived in a time when people commonly devised their own amusements and when singing and recitation were required social skills, and the young Dodgson was well equipped to be an engaging entertainer. He reportedly could sing tolerably well and was not afraid to do so before an audience. He was adept at mimicry and storytelling, and was reputedly quite good at charades.\n\nIn the interim between his early published writings and the success of the \"Alice\" books, Dodgson began to move in the pre-Raphaelite social circle. He first met John Ruskin in 1857 and became friendly with him. He developed a close relationship with Dante Gabriel Rossetti and his family, and also knew William Holman Hunt, John Everett Millais, and Arthur Hughes, among other artists. He knew fairy-tale author George MacDonald well – it was the enthusiastic reception of \"Alice\" by the young MacDonald children that persuaded him to submit the work for publication.\n\nIn broad terms, Dodgson has traditionally been regarded as politically, religiously, and personally conservative. Martin Gardner labels Dodgson as a Tory who was \"awed by lords and inclined to be snobbish towards inferiors.\" The Reverend W. Tuckwell, in his \"Reminiscences of Oxford\" (1900), regarded him as \"austere, shy, precise, absorbed in mathematical reverie, watchfully tenacious of his dignity, stiffly conservative in political, theological, social theory, his life mapped out in squares like Alice's landscape.\" Dodgson was ordained a deacon in the Church of England on 22 December 1861. In \"The Life and Letters of Lewis Carroll\", the editor states that \"his Diary is full of such modest depreciations of himself and his work, interspersed with earnest prayers (too sacred and private to be reproduced here) that God would forgive him the past, and help him to perform His holy will in the future.\" When a friend asked him about his religious views, Dodgson wrote in response that he was a member of the Church of England, but \"doubt[ed] if he was fully a 'High Churchman'\". He added:\nDodgson also expressed interest in other fields. He was an early member of the Society for Psychical Research, and one of his letters suggests that he accepted as real what was then called \"thought reading\". Dodgson wrote some studies of various philosophical arguments. In 1895, he developed a philosophical regressus-argument on deductive reasoning in his article \"What the Tortoise Said to Achilles\", which appeared in one of the early volumes of \"Mind\". The article was reprinted in the same journal a hundred years later in 1995, with a subsequent article by Simon Blackburn titled \"Practical Tortoise Raising\".\n\nFrom a young age, Dodgson wrote poetry and short stories, contributing heavily to the family magazine \"Mischmasch\" and later sending them to various magazines, enjoying moderate success. Between 1854 and 1856, his work appeared in the national publications \"The Comic Times\" and \"The Train\", as well as smaller magazines such as the \"Whitby Gazette\" and the \"Oxford Critic\". Most of this output was humorous, sometimes satirical, but his standards and ambitions were exacting. \"I do not think I have yet written anything worthy of real publication (in which I do not include the \"Whitby Gazette\" or the \"Oxonian Advertiser\"), but I do not despair of doing so some day,\" he wrote in July 1855. Sometime after 1850, he did write puppet plays for his siblings' entertainment, of which one has survived: \"La Guida di Bragia\".\n\nIn 1856, he published his first piece of work under the name that would make him famous. A romantic poem called \"Solitude\" appeared in \"The Train\" under the authorship of \"Lewis Carroll\". This pseudonym was a play on his real name: \"Lewis\" was the anglicised form of \"Ludovicus\", which was the Latin for \"Lutwidge\", and \"Carroll\" an Irish surname similar to the Latin name \"Carolus\", from which comes the name \"Charles\". The transition went as follows:\n\"Charles Lutwidge\" translated into Latin as \"Carolus Ludovicus\". This was then translated back into English as \"Carroll Lewis\" and then reversed to make \"Lewis Carroll\". This pseudonym was chosen by editor Edmund Yates from a list of four submitted by Dodgson, the others being Edgar Cuthwellis, Edgar U. C. Westhill, and Louis Carroll.\n\nIn 1856, Dean (i.e., head of the college) Henry Liddell arrived at Christ Church, bringing with him his young family, all of whom would figure largely in Dodgson's life over the following years, and would greatly influence his writing career. Dodgson became close friends with Liddell's wife Lorina and their children, particularly the three sisters Lorina, Edith, and Alice Liddell. He was widely assumed for many years to have derived his own \"Alice\" from Alice Liddell; the acrostic poem at the end of \"Through the Looking-Glass\" spells out her name in full, and there are also many superficial references to her hidden in the text of both books. It has been noted that Dodgson himself repeatedly denied in later life that his \"little heroine\" was based on any real child, and he frequently dedicated his works to girls of his acquaintance, adding their names in acrostic poems at the beginning of the text. Gertrude Chataway's name appears in this form at the beginning of \"The Hunting of the Snark\", and it is not suggested that this means that any of the characters in the narrative are based on her.\n\nInformation is scarce (Dodgson's diaries for the years 1858–1862 are missing), but it seems clear that his friendship with the Liddell family was an important part of his life in the late 1850s, and he grew into the habit of taking the children on rowing trips (first the boy Harry, and later the three girls) accompanied by an adult friend to nearby Nuneham Courtenay or Godstow.\n\nIt was on one such expedition on 4 July 1862 that Dodgson invented the outline of the story that eventually became his first and greatest commercial success. He told the story to Alice Liddell and she begged him to write it down, and Dodgson eventually (after much delay) presented her with a handwritten, illustrated manuscript entitled \"Alice's Adventures Under Ground\" in November 1864.\n\nBefore this, the family of friend and mentor George MacDonald read Dodgson's incomplete manuscript, and the enthusiasm of the MacDonald children encouraged Dodgson to seek publication. In 1863, he had taken the unfinished manuscript to Macmillan the publisher, who liked it immediately. After the possible alternative titles were rejected – \"Alice Among the Fairies\" and \"Alice's Golden Hour\" – the work was finally published as \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\" in 1865 under the Lewis Carroll pen-name, which Dodgson had first used some nine years earlier. The illustrations this time were by Sir John Tenniel; Dodgson evidently thought that a published book would need the skills of a professional artist. Annotated versions provide insights into many of the ideas and hidden meanings that are prevalent in these books. Critical literature has often proposed Freudian interpretations of the book as \"a descent into the dark world of the subconscious\", as well as seeing it as a satire upon contemporary mathematical advances.\n\nThe overwhelming commercial success of the first Alice book changed Dodgson's life in many ways. The fame of his alter ego \"Lewis Carroll\" soon spread around the world. He was inundated with fan mail and with sometimes unwanted attention. Indeed, according to one popular story, Queen Victoria herself enjoyed \"Alice in Wonderland\" so much that she commanded that he dedicate his next book to her, and was accordingly presented with his next work, a scholarly mathematical volume entitled \"An Elementary Treatise on Determinants\". Dodgson himself vehemently denied this story, commenting \"... It is utterly false in every particular: nothing even resembling it has occurred\"; and it is unlikely for other reasons. As T. B. Strong comments in a \"Times\" article, \"It would have been clean contrary to all his practice to identify [the] author of Alice with the author of his mathematical works\". He also began earning quite substantial sums of money but continued with his seemingly disliked post at Christ Church.\n\nLate in 1871, he published the sequel \"Through the Looking-Glass, and What Alice Found There\". (The title page of the first edition erroneously gives \"1872\" as the date of publication.) Its somewhat darker mood possibly reflects changes in Dodgson's life. His father's death in 1868 plunged him into a depression that lasted some years.\n\nIn 1876, Dodgson produced his next great work, \"The Hunting of the Snark\", a fantastical \"nonsense\" poem exploring the adventures of a bizarre crew of nine tradesmen and one beaver, who set off to find the snark. It received largely mixed reviews from Carroll's contemporary reviewers, but was enormously popular with the public, having been reprinted seventeen times between 1876 and 1908, and has seen various adaptations into musicals, opera, theatre, plays and music. Painter Dante Gabriel Rossetti reputedly became convinced that the poem was about him.\n\nIn 1895, 30 years after publication of his masterpieces, Carroll attempted a comeback, producing a two-volume tale of the fairy siblings Sylvie and Bruno. Carroll entwines two plots set in two alternative worlds, one set in rural England and the other in the fairytale kingdoms of Elfland, Outland, and others. The fairytale world satirizes English society, and more specifically the world of academia. \"Sylvie and Bruno\" came out in two volumes and is considered a lesser work, although it has remained in print for over a century.\n\nIn 1856, Dodgson took up the new art form of photography under the influence first of his uncle Skeffington Lutwidge, and later of his Oxford friend Reginald Southey. He soon excelled at the art and became a well-known gentleman-photographer, and he seems even to have toyed with the idea of making a living out of it in his very early years.\n\nA study by Roger Taylor and Edward Wakeling exhaustively lists every surviving print, and Taylor calculates that just over half of his surviving work depicts young girls, though about 60% of his original photographic portfolio is now missing. Dodgson also made many studies of men, women, boys, and landscapes; his subjects also include skeletons, dolls, dogs, statues, paintings, and trees. His pictures of children were taken with a parent in attendance and many of the pictures were taken in the Liddell garden because natural sunlight was required for good exposures.\n\nHe also found photography to be a useful entrée into higher social circles. During the most productive part of his career, he made portraits of notable sitters such as John Everett Millais, Ellen Terry, Dante Gabriel Rossetti, Julia Margaret Cameron, Michael Faraday, Lord Salisbury, and Alfred Tennyson.\n\nBy the time that Dodgson abruptly ceased photography (1880, over 24 years), he had established his own studio on the roof of Tom Quad, created around 3,000 images, and was an amateur master of the medium, though fewer than 1,000 images have survived time and deliberate destruction. He stopped taking photographs because keeping his studio working was too time-consuming. He used the wet collodion process; commercial photographers who started using the dry-plate process in the 1870s took pictures more quickly. Popular taste changed with the advent of Modernism, affecting the types of photographs that he produced.\n\nTo promote letter writing, Dodgson invented \"The Wonderland Postage-Stamp Case\" in 1889. This was a cloth-backed folder with twelve slots, two marked for inserting the most commonly used penny stamp, and one each for the other current denominations up to one shilling. The folder was then put into a slipcase decorated with a picture of Alice on the front and the Cheshire Cat on the back. It intended to organize stamps wherever one stored their writing utensils; Carroll expressly notes in \"Eight or Nine Wise Words About Letter-Writing\" it is not intended to be carried in a pocket or purse, as the most common individual stamps could easily be carried on their own. The pack included a copy of a pamphletted version of this lecture.\nAnother invention was a writing tablet called the nyctograph that allowed note-taking in the dark, thus eliminating the need to get out of bed and strike a light when one woke with an idea. The device consisted of a gridded card with sixteen squares and system of symbols representing an alphabet of Dodgson's design, using letter shapes similar to the Graffiti writing system on a Palm device.\n\nHe also devised a number of games, including an early version of what today is known as Scrabble. He appears to have invented – or at least certainly popularized – the \"doublet\" (see word ladder), a form of brain-teaser that is still popular today, changing one word into another by altering one letter at a time, each successive change always resulting in a genuine word. For instance, CAT is transformed into DOG by the following steps: CAT, COT, DOT, DOG. The games and puzzles of Lewis Carroll were the subject of Martin Gardner's March 1960 Mathematical Games column in Scientific American.\n\nOther items include a rule for finding the day of the week for any date; a means for justifying right margins on a typewriter; a steering device for a velociam (a type of tricycle); new systems of parliamentary representation; more fair elimination rules for tennis tournaments; a new sort of postal money order; rules for reckoning postage; rules for a win in betting; rules for dividing a number by various divisors; a cardboard scale for the Senior Common Room at Christ Church which, held next to a glass, ensured the right amount of liqueur for the price paid; a double-sided adhesive strip to fasten envelopes or mount things in books; a device for helping a bedridden invalid to read from a book placed sideways; and at least two ciphers for cryptography.\n\nWithin the academic discipline of mathematics, Dodgson worked primarily in the fields of geometry, linear and matrix algebra, mathematical logic, and recreational mathematics, producing nearly a dozen books under his real name. Dodgson also developed new ideas in linear algebra (e.g., the first printed proof of the Kronecker–Capelli theorem), probability, and the study of elections (e.g., Dodgson's method) and committees; some of this work was not published until well after his death. His occupation as Mathematical Lecturer at Christ Church gave him some financial security.\n\nHis mathematical work attracted renewed interest in the late 20th century. Martin Gardner's book on logic machines and diagrams and William Warren Bartley's posthumous publication of the second part of Carroll's symbolic logic book have sparked a reevaluation of Carroll's contributions to symbolic logic. Robbins' and Rumsey's investigation of Dodgson condensation, a method of evaluating determinants, led them to the Alternating Sign Matrix conjecture, now a theorem.\n\nThe algorithm known as Dodgson condensation is closely related to the Schur complement and the Desnanot-Jacobi identity.\n\nThe discovery in the 1990s of additional ciphers that Carroll had constructed, in addition to his \"Memoria Technica\", showed that he had employed sophisticated mathematical ideas in their creation.\n\nDodgson wrote and received as many as 98,721 letters, according to a special letter register which he devised. He documented his advice about how to write more satisfying letters in a missive entitled \"Eight or Nine Wise Words About Letter-Writing\".\n\nDodgson's existence remained little changed over the last twenty years of his life, despite his growing wealth and fame. He continued to teach at Christ Church until 1881 and remained in residence there until his death. The two volumes of his last novel, \"Sylvie and Bruno\", were published in 1889 and 1893, but the intricacy of this work was apparently not appreciated by contemporary readers; it achieved nothing like the success of the \"Alice\" books, with disappointing reviews and sales of only 13,000 copies.\n\nThe only known occasion on which he travelled abroad was a trip to Russia in 1867 as an ecclesiastic, together with the Reverend Henry Liddon. He recounts the travel in his \"Russian Journal\", which was first commercially published in 1935. On his way to Russia and back, he also saw different cities in Belgium, Germany, partitioned Poland, and France.\n\nHe died of pneumonia following influenza on 14 January 1898 at his sisters' home, \"The Chestnuts\", in Guildford. He was two weeks away from turning 66 years old. His funeral was held at the nearby St Mary's Church. He is buried in Guildford at the Mount Cemetery.\n\nSome late twentieth-century biographers have suggested that Dodgson's interest in children had an erotic element, including Morton N. Cohen in his \"Lewis Carroll: A Biography\" (1995), Donald Thomas in his \"Lewis Carroll: A Portrait with Background\" (1995), and Michael Bakewell in his \"Lewis Carroll: A Biography\" (1996).\nCohen, in particular, speculates that Dodgson's \"sexual energies sought unconventional outlets\", and further writes:\n\nCohen goes on to note that Dodgson \"apparently convinced many of his friends that his attachment to the nude female child form was free of any eroticism\", but adds that \"later generations look beneath the surface\" (p. 229). He argues that Dodgson may have wanted to marry the 11-year-old Alice Liddell, and that this was the cause of the unexplained \"break\" with the family in June 1863, an event for which other explanations are offered. Biographers Derek Hudson and Roger Lancelyn Green stop short of identifying Dodgson as a paedophile (Green also edited Dodgson's diaries and papers), but they concur that he had a passion for small female children and next to no interest in the adult world. Catherine Robson refers to Carroll as \"the Victorian era's most famous (or infamous) girl lover\".\n\nSeveral other writers and scholars have challenged the evidential basis for Cohen's and others' views about Dodgson's sexual interests. Lebailly has endeavoured to set Dodgson's child photography within the \"Victorian Child Cult\", which perceived child nudity as essentially an expression of innocence. Lebailly claims that studies of child nudes were mainstream and fashionable in Dodgson's time, and that most photographers made them as a matter of course, including Oscar Gustave Rejlander and Julia Margaret Cameron. Lebailly continues that child nudes even appeared on Victorian Christmas cards, implying a very different social and aesthetic assessment of such material. Lebailly concludes that it has been an error of Dodgson's biographers to view his child-photography with 20th- or 21st-century eyes, and to have presented it as some form of personal idiosyncrasy, when it was in fact a response to a prevalent aesthetic and philosophical movement of the time.\n\nKaroline Leach's reappraisal of Dodgson focused in particular on his controversial sexuality. She argues that the allegations of paedophilia rose initially from a misunderstanding of Victorian morals, as well as the mistaken idea – fostered by Dodgson's various biographers – that he had no interest in adult women. She termed the traditional image of Dodgson \"the Carroll Myth\". She drew attention to the large amounts of evidence in his diaries and letters that he was also keenly interested in adult women, married and single, and enjoyed several relationships with them that would have been considered scandalous by the social standards of his time. She also pointed to the fact that many of those whom he described as \"child-friends\" were girls in their late teens and even twenties. She argues that suggestions of paedophilia emerged only many years after his death, when his well-meaning family had suppressed all evidence of his relationships with women in an effort to preserve his reputation, thus giving a false impression of a man interested only in little girls. Similarly, Leach points to a 1932 biography by Langford Reed as the source of the dubious claim that many of Carroll's female friendships ended when the girls reached the age of 14.\n\nIn addition to the biographical works that have discussed Dodgson's sexuality, there are modern artistic interpretations of his life and work that do so as well — in particular, Dennis Potter in his play \"Alice\" and his screenplay for the motion picture \"Dreamchild\", and Robert Wilson in his film \"Alice\".\n\nDodgson had been groomed for the ordained ministry in the Church of England from a very early age and was expected to be ordained within four years of obtaining his master's degree, as a condition of his residency at Christ Church. He delayed the process for some time but was eventually ordained as a deacon on 22 December 1861. But when the time came a year later to be ordained as a priest, Dodgson appealed to the dean for permission not to proceed. This was against college rules and, initially, Dean Liddell told him that he would have to consult the college ruling body, which would almost certainly have resulted in his being expelled. For unknown reasons, Liddell changed his mind overnight and permitted Dodgson to remain at the college in defiance of the rules. Dodgson never became a priest, unique amongst senior students of his time.\n\nThere is currently no conclusive evidence about why Dodgson rejected the priesthood. Some have suggested that his stammer made him reluctant to take the step, because he was afraid of having to preach. Wilson quotes letters by Dodgson describing difficulty in reading lessons and prayers rather than preaching in his own words. But Dodgson did indeed preach in later life, even though not in priest's orders, so it seems unlikely that his impediment was a major factor affecting his choice. Wilson also points out that the Bishop of Oxford, Samuel Wilberforce, who ordained Dodgson, had strong views against clergy going to the theatre, one of Dodgson's great interests. He was interested in minority forms of Christianity (he was an admirer of F. D. Maurice) and \"alternative\" religions (theosophy). Dodgson became deeply troubled by an unexplained sense of sin and guilt at this time (the early 1860s) and frequently expressed the view in his diaries that he was a \"vile and worthless\" sinner, unworthy of the priesthood and this sense of sin and unworthiness may well have affected his decision to abandon being ordained to the priesthood.\n\nAt least four complete volumes and around seven pages of text are missing from Dodgson's 13 diaries. The loss of the volumes remains unexplained; the pages have been removed by an unknown hand. Most scholars assume that the diary material was removed by family members in the interests of preserving the family name, but this has not been proven. Except for one page, material is missing from his diaries for the period between 1853 and 1863 (when Dodgson was 21–31 years old). This was a period when Dodgson began suffering great mental and spiritual anguish and confessing to an overwhelming sense of his own sin. This was also the period of time when he composed his extensive love poetry, leading to speculation that the poems may have been autobiographical.\n\nMany theories have been put forward to explain the missing material. A popular explanation for one missing page (27 June 1863) is that it might have been torn out to conceal a proposal of marriage on that day by Dodgson to the 11-year-old Alice Liddell. However, there has never been any evidence to suggest that this was so, and a paper offers some evidence to the contrary which was discovered by Karoline Leach in the Dodgson family archive in 1996.\nThis paper is known as the \"cut pages in diary document\", and was compiled by various members of Carroll's family after his death. Part of it may have been written at the time when the pages were destroyed, though this is unclear. The document offers a brief summary of two diary pages that are missing, including the one for 27 June 1863. The summary for this page states that Mrs. Liddell told Dodgson that there was gossip circulating about him and the Liddell family's governess, as well as about his relationship with \"Ina\", presumably Alice's older sister Lorina Liddell. The \"break\" with the Liddell family that occurred soon after was presumably in response to this gossip. An alternative interpretation has been made regarding Carroll's rumoured involvement with \"Ina\": Lorina was also the name of Alice Liddell's mother. What is deemed most crucial and surprising is that the document seems to imply that Dodgson's break with the family was not connected with Alice at all; until a primary source is discovered, the events of 27 June 1863 will remain in doubt.\n\nIn his diary for 1880, Dodgson recorded experiencing his first episode of migraine with aura, describing very accurately the process of \"moving fortifications\" that are a manifestation of the aura stage of the syndrome. Unfortunately, there is no clear evidence to show whether this was his first experience of migraine \"per se\", or if he may have previously suffered the far more common form of migraine without aura, although the latter seems most likely, given the fact that migraine most commonly develops in the teens or early adulthood. Another form of migraine aura called Alice in Wonderland syndrome has been named after Dodgson's little heroine because its manifestation can resemble the sudden size-changes in the book. It is also known as micropsia and macropsia, a brain condition affecting the way that objects are perceived by the mind. For example, an afflicted person may look at a larger object such as a basketball and perceive it as if it were the size of a golf ball. Some authors have suggested that Dodgson may have suffered from this type of aura and used it as an inspiration in his work, but there is no evidence that he did.\n\nDodgson also suffered two attacks in which he lost consciousness. He was diagnosed by a Dr. Morshead, Dr. Brooks, and Dr. Stedman, and they believed the attack and a consequent attack to be an \"epileptiform\" seizure (initially thought to be fainting, but Brooks changed his mind). Some have concluded from this that he was a lifetime sufferer of this condition, but there is no evidence of this in his diaries beyond the diagnosis of the two attacks already mentioned. Some authors, Sadi Ranson in particular, have suggested that Carroll may have suffered from temporal lobe epilepsy in which consciousness is not always completely lost but altered, and in which the symptoms mimic many of the same experiences as Alice in Wonderland. Carroll had at least one incident in which he suffered full loss of consciousness and awoke with a bloody nose, which he recorded in his diary and noted that the episode left him not feeling himself for \"quite sometime afterward\". This attack was diagnosed as possibly \"epileptiform\" and Carroll himself later wrote of his \"seizures\" in the same diary.\n\nMost of the standard diagnostic tests of today were not available in the nineteenth century. Yvonne Hart, consultant neurologist at the John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, considered Dodgson's symptoms. Her conclusion, quoted in Jenny Woolf's 2010 \"The Mystery of Lewis Carroll\", is that Dodgson very likely had migraine, and may have had epilepsy, but she emphasises that she would have considerable doubt about making a diagnosis of epilepsy without further information.\n\nThere are societies in many parts of the world dedicated to the enjoyment and promotion of his works and the investigation of his life.\n\nOn Copenhagen Street in Islington is the Lewis Carroll Children's Library.\n\nIn 1982, his great-nephew unveiled a memorial stone to him in Poets' Corner, Westminster Abbey.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12917346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12917346", "title": "Li Tiejun", "text": "Li Tiejun\n\nLi Tiejun (; 1904–9 June 2002) was a Kuomintang general from Mei County, Guangdong. He served as commanding officer (CO) of the 3rd and 29th army groups as well as CO of other smaller units during the war.\n\nAfter the Chinese Civil War in 1949, he moved to Taiwan where he became an official in the Ministry of National Defense. He later moved to the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "375845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375845", "title": "List of most popular given names", "text": "List of most popular given names\n\nThe most popular given names vary nationally, regionally, and culturally. Lists of widely used given names can consist of those most often bestowed upon infants born within the last year, thus reflecting the current naming trends, or else be composed of the personal names occurring most within the total population.\n\nThe names listed in the following tables, unless otherwise noted, represent the most current top 10 breakdowns of what newborn children are commonly being named in the various regions of the world.\n\n\n\nAustralia\nCanada\nUnited States\n"}
{"id": "24436260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24436260", "title": "Liu Xijun", "text": "Liu Xijun\n\nSara Liu Xijun (), is a Chinese pop singer who rose to fame through televised singing competitions. Born April 30, 1988 in Shenzhen, Guangdong of Hakka Meixian ancestry, she began as a singer by ranking fifth in the fourth season (2009) of a singing contest in China, \"Super Girls\" (Chinese: 快乐女声), or Happy Girl.\n\n\nUnfortunately, Liu Xijun lost her challenge to Yu Kewei with her song \"I Only Care for You\". Even with her defeat, Liu left the stage gracefully with a smile on her beautiful face.\n\nLiu Xijun has high personal music recognition accuracy in terms of her voice, therefore, people can easily distinguish her voice by listening to her songs. Liu Xijun’s musical style could be categorized as classical pop music, such as Deng Lijun, she owned nearly all the characters which Chinese traditional singers have had. Even though her songs still have her own features, taking \"Love Garden\" for instance, this song is standard pop music, depicting a tale of a girl’s first love. Having experienced Super Girl 2009 as her precious fortune, Liu Xijun improved her singing skills greatly when she signed with EEMEDIA after \"Super Girl\", and started her new music career.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "548715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=548715", "title": "Manjushri", "text": "Manjushri\n\nMañjuśrī is a bodhisattva associated with prajñā (insight) in Mahayana Buddhism. In Tibetan Buddhism, he is also a yidam. His name means \"Gentle Glory\"（Chinese：妙吉祥, 妙乐） in Sanskrit. Mañjuśrī is also known by the fuller name of Mañjuśrīkumārabhūta, literally \"Mañjuśrī, Still a Youth\" or, less literally, \"Prince Mañjuśrī\".\n\nScholars have identified Mañjuśrī as the oldest and most significant bodhisattva in Mahāyāna literature. Mañjuśrī is first referred to in early Mahayana sutras such as the Prajnaparamita sutras and through this association, very early in the tradition he came to symbolize the embodiment of \"prajñā\" (transcendent wisdom). The \"Lotus Sutra\" assigns him a pure land called \"Vimala\", which according to the \"Avatamsaka Sutra\" is located in the East. His pure land is predicted to be one of the two best pure lands in all of existence in all the past, present, and future. When he attains buddhahood his name will be Universal Sight. In the Lotus Sūtra, Mañjuśrī also leads the Nagaraja's daughter to enlightenment. He also figures in the \"Vimalakirti Sutra\" in a debate with Vimalakirti where he is presented as an Arhat who represents the wisdom of the Hinayana.\n\nAn example of a wisdom teaching of Mañjuśrī can be found in the \"Saptaśatikā Prajñāpāramitā Sūtra\" (Taishō Tripiṭaka 232). This sūtra contains a dialogue between Mañjuśrī and the Buddha on the One Samadhi (Skt. \"Ekavyūha Samādhi\"). Sheng-yen renders the following teaching of Mañjuśrī, for entering samādhi naturally through transcendent wisdom:\n\nWithin Vajrayana Buddhism, Mañjuśrī is a meditational deity and considered a fully enlightened Buddha. In Shingon Buddhism, he is one of the Thirteen Buddhas to whom disciples devote themselves. He figures extensively in many esoteric texts such as the \"Mañjuśrī-mūla-kalpa\" and the \"Mañjuśrīnāmasamgīti\". His consort in some traditions is Saraswati.\n\nThe Mañjusrimulakalpa, which later came to classified under Kriyatantra, states that mantras taught in the Saiva, Garuda and Vaisnava tantras will be effective if applied by Buddhists since they were all taught originally by Manjushri.\n\nMañjuśrī is depicted as a male bodhisattva wielding a flaming sword in his right hand, representing the realization of transcendent wisdom which cuts down ignorance and duality. The scripture supported by the padma (lotus) held in his left hand is a \"Prajñāpāramitā sūtra\", representing his attainment of ultimate realization from the blossoming of wisdom. Mañjuśrī is often depicted as riding on a blue lion or sitting on the skin of a lion. This represents the use of wisdom to tame the mind, which is compared to riding or subduing a ferocious lion.\n\nIn Chinese and Japanese Buddhist art, Mañjuśrī's sword is sometimes replaced with a \"ruyi\" scepter, especially in representations of his \"Vimalakirti Sutra\" discussion with the layman Vimalakirti. According to Berthold Laufer, the first Chinese representation of a \"ruyi\" was in an 8th-century Mañjuśrī painting by Wu Daozi, showing it held in his right hand taking the place of the usual sword. In subsequent Chinese and Japanese paintings of Buddhas, a \"ruyi\" was occasionally represented as a Padma with a long stem curved like a \"ruyi\". \n\nHe is one of the Four Great Bodhisattvas of Chinese Buddhism, the other three being Kṣitigarbha, Avalokiteśvara, and Samantabhadra. In China, he is often paired with Samantabhadra.\n\nIn Tibetan Buddhism, Mañjuśrī is sometimes depicted in a trinity with Avalokiteśvara and Vajrapāṇi.\n\nA mantra commonly associated with Mañjuśrī is the following:\n\nThe Arapacana is a syllabary consisting of forty-two letters, and is named after the first five letters: \"a, ra, pa, ca, na\". This syllabary was most widely used for the Gāndhārī language with the Kharoṣṭhī script but also appears in some Sanskrit texts. The syllabary features in Mahāyāna texts such as the longer \"Prajñāpāramitā\" texts, the \"Gaṇḍavyūha Sūtra\", the \"Lalitavistara Sūtra\", the \"Avataṃsaka Sūtra\", the \"Dharmaguptaka Vinaya\", and the \"Mūlasarvāstivāda Vinaya\". In some of these texts, the Arapacana syllabary serves as a mnemonic for important Mahāyāna concepts. Due to its association with him, \"Arapacana\" may even serve as an alternate name for Mañjuśrī.\n\nThe \"Sutra on Perfect Wisdom\" (Conze 1975) defines the significance of each syllable thus:\n\n\nTibetan pronunciation is slightly different and so the Tibetan characters read: \" (). In Tibetan tradition, this mantra is believed to enhance wisdom and improve one's skills in debating, memory, writing, and other literary abilities. \" is the seed syllable of the mantra and is chanted with greater emphasis and also repeated a number of times as a decrescendo.\n\nMañjuśrī is known in China as \"Wenshu\" (). Mount Wutai in Shanxi, one of the four Sacred Mountains of China, is considered by Chinese Buddhists to be his bodhimaṇḍa. He was said to bestow spectacular visionary experiences to those on selected mountain peaks and caves there. In Mount Wutai's Foguang Temple, the Manjusri Hall to the right of its main hall was recognized to have been built in 1137 during the Jin dynasty. The hall was thoroughly studied, mapped and first photographed by early twentieth-century Chinese architects Liang Sicheng and Lin Huiyin. These made it a popular place of pilgrimage, but patriarchs including Linji Yixuan and Yunmen Wenyan declared the mountain off limits.\n\nMount Wutai was also associated with the East Mountain Teaching. Mañjuśrī has been associated with Mount Wutai since ancient times. Paul Williams writes:\n\nAccording to official histories from the Qing dynasty, Nurhaci, a military leader of the Jurchens of Northeast China and founder of what became the Qing dynasty, named his tribe after Mañjuśrī as the Manchus. The true origin of the name Manchu is disputed.\n\nMonk Hanshan (寒山) is widely considered to be a metaphorical manifestation of Mañjuśrī. He is known for having co-written the following famous poem about reincarnation with monk Shide:\n\nDrumming your grandpa in the shrine,<br>\nCooking your aunts in the pot,<br>\nMarrying your grandma in the past,<br>\nShould I laugh or not?<br>\n\n堂上打鼓打公皮，<br>\n鍋內煎煮是姑娘，<br>\n三世祖母娶為婦，<br>\n我今不笑等何時。\n\nIn Tibetan Buddhism, Mañjuśrī manifests in a number of different Tantric forms. Yamāntaka (meaning 'terminator of Yama i.e. Death') is the wrathful manifestation of Mañjuśrī, popular within the Gelug school of Tibetan Buddhism. Other variations upon his traditional form as Mañjuśrī include Namasangiti, Arapacana Manjushri, etc. \n\nMahasiddha Virupa, Mahsiddha Naropa, Emperor Trisong Detsen, Translator Lotsawa Loden Sherab, Father of the Tibetan Language-Thonmi Sambhuta, Yogi Ra Lotsawa, Scholar Sakya Pandita, Buton Rinchen Drub, Panchen Sonam Srkpa, Lama Tsongkhapa, Duldzin Drakpa Gyaltsen, Tulku Drakpa Gyaltsen, and other great realised masters are believed to be human manifestations of Manjushri.\n\nAccording to Swayambhu Purana, the Kathmandu Valley was once a lake. It is believed that Mañjuśrī came on a pilgrimage from his earthly abode-Wutaishan(five-peaked mountain) in China. He saw a lotus flower in the center of the lake, which emitted brilliant radiance. He cut a gorge at Chovar with his flaming sword to allow the lake to drain. The place where the lotus flower settled became the great Swayambhunath Stupa and the valley thus became habitable.\n\nIn eighth century Java during the Medang Kingdom, Mañjuśrī was a prominent deity revered by the Sailendra dynasty, patrons of Mahayana Buddhism. The Kelurak inscription (782) and Manjusrigrha inscription (792) mentioned about the construction of a grand Prasada named \"Vajrāsana Mañjuśrīgṛha\" (Vajra House of Mañjuśrī) identified today as Sewu temple, located just 800 meters north of the Prambanan. Sewu is the second largest Buddhist temple in Central Java after Borobudur. The depiction of Mañjuśrī in Sailendra art is similar to those of the Pala Empire style of Nalanda, Bihar. Mañjuśrī was portrayed as a youthful handsome man with the palm of his hands tattooed with the image of a flower. His right hand is facing down with an open palm while his left-hand holds an \"utpala\" (blue lotus). He also uses the necklace made of tiger canine teeth.\n\nHarrison, Paul M. (2000). Mañjuśrī and the Cult of the Celestial Bodhisattvas, Chung-Hwa Buddhist Journal 13, 157-193\n\n"}
{"id": "28742611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28742611", "title": "Mary Ewing-Mulligan", "text": "Mary Ewing-Mulligan\n\nMary Ewing-Mulligan is an American author, wine educator and Master of Wine, the first American woman to achieve this accreditation. She has been the director of the school International Wine Center since 1984, and is executive director of the U.S. programs for the Wine & Spirit Education Trust. She is also a freelance journalist of wine articles to various publications, and the co-author of several wine books in the \"For Dummies\" series.\n\nEwing-Mulligan graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1971 with an English major, followed by various positions with the Italian Trade Commission in Philadelphia and later in Manhattan. In 1984 she joined the International Wine Center, a school founded by Albert L. Hotchkin Jr. in 1982. In 1988, Ewing-Mulligan began the preparatory Master of Wine program. She passed the theoretical exam in 1990 on the second attempt, and the blind-tasting exam on the fifth attempt in 1993. In 1997, Ewing-Mulligan bought Hotchkin's shares in the International Wine Center. The IWC is esteemed among the U.S. leading wine schools.\n\nEwing-Mulligan is a columnist for \"Wine Review Online\" and has previously served as wine columnist for \"The New York Daily News\" and wine correspondent on the radio program \"The Splendid Table\". She has also contributed articles to publications such as \"Los Angeles Times\", \"Food & Wine\", \"The New York Times\", \"Gourmet\", \"Wine Spectator\", \"Wine Enthusiast Magazine\" and \"Wine & Spirit\".\n\nHer books, co-authored with her husband Ed McCarthy, include \"Wine Style: Using Your Senses to Explore and Enjoy Wine\" and several publications in the \"For Dummies\" series, including \"Wine For Dummies\", \"Red Wine For Dummies\", \"White Wine For Dummies\", \"French Wine For Dummies\", \"Italian Wine For Dummies\" and \"California Wine For Dummies\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1206602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1206602", "title": "Matthew Coon Come", "text": "Matthew Coon Come\n\nMatthew Coon Come (born 1956) is a Canadian politician and activist of Cree descent. He was National Chief of the Assembly of First Nations from 2000 to 2003.\n\nBorn near Mistissini, Quebec, Coon Come was first educated at LaTuque Indian Residential School, in LaTuque, Quebec, part of the residential school system. He later studied political science at Trent University, and law at McGill University.\n\nCoon Come was first elected as grand chief and chairman of Quebec's Grand Council of the Crees in 1987. He became known internationally for his efforts to defend the fundamental rights of First Nations peoples, notably in the campaign against the Quebec government's James Bay hydroelectric project.\n\nCoon Come was awarded with a National Aboriginal Achievement Award, now the Indspire Awards, in 1995. He has also received 2 honorary degrees, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "1579765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1579765", "title": "Mediaset", "text": "Mediaset\n\nMediaset S.p.A., also known as Gruppo Mediaset in Italian, is an Italian-based mass media company which is the largest commercial broadcaster in the country. Founded in 1987 by former Italian prime minister Silvio Berlusconi and still controlled today with a 38.6% stake by his family's holding company Fininvest, the group competes primarily against the public broadcaster RAI, the privately owned La7 and Sky plc's Sky Italia.\n\nMediaset's headquarters are in Milan, Lombardy. Many of its studios are located in the Milano 2 area of Segrate, a municipality bordering Milan, where broadcasts of local station TeleMilano (now airing nationally as Mediaset's Canale 5) began in 1978. After merging with various local broadcaster to form the Canale 5 syndication, much production was moved to Cologno Monzese, where the infrastructure of the former Telealtomilanese was present. The company currently has three main television production centres, in Milan (Segrate, Cologno Monzese) and Rome.\n\nDue to their proximity to Italy, Albania, Croatia, Switzerland, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, San Marino, the Vatican City and Slovenia also receive Mediaset broadcasts.\n\nIn addition to its domestic television interests, Mediaset also operates a series of news, entertainment and sport websites; holds 50.1% of the Spanish broadcasting firm Mediaset España Comunicación; owns the film production company Medusa Film.\n\nMediaset's story began in 1978, with Telemilano, a local Milan-based broadcaster that became Canale 5 two years later and began broadcasting nationally. Canale 5 was subsequently joined by Italia 1 (bought from the publishing group Rusconi in 1982) and Rete 4 (acquired from Arnoldo Mondadori Editore in 1984). Television area was called RTI and became established with three national analogue networks, supported by an advertising sales company, Publitalia '80, that exclusively collects advertising for all three channels, and two other companies, Videotime, that manages TV technology and production activities, and Elettronica Industriale that guarantees signal distribution through the management of the broadcasting infrastructure.\n\nIn 1996 RTI, Videotime, Publitalia and Elettronica Industriale were brought together in a single group, Mediaset, which was then listed on the Milan stock exchange, opening up the company to both important institutional investors and private investors (around 300,000). In 1997, Mediaset expands outside Italy with the acquisition of a 25% stake in the Spanish broadcaster, Telecinco. In 1999, Mediaset Group expands its web-based activities with a television portal dedicated to Canale 5, Italia 1 and Retequattro and a daily online news service, is accessible from a range of media (internet, TV, radio, Mediavideo teletext and mobile phones).\n\nIn 2003, Mediaset increases its stake in Telecinco and becomes the major shareholder with 50.1% of the shares. The following year the Spanish TV company was listed on the Madrid stock exchange. In 2004, with the debut in Italy of digital terrestrial television, an innovative signal broadcasting system that uses standard aerials and a small set-top box. Mediaset launches Mediashopping, a shopping channel.\n\nIn 2005, the group launched Mediaset Premium, a pay digital terrestrial television service which offered live Serie A football, with a pre-paid card and without a subscription. Mediaset Premium also had a pay-per-view offer including films (including first TV-screenings), theatre and live events. In 2006, Mediaset launched Europe's first digital terrestrial Mobile TV network using DVB-H (Digital Video Broadcast Handheld) technology.\n\nIn 2007, Mediaset became a major network due to its international expansion and new acquisitions. In a consortium with Cyrte Fund and Goldman Sachs, they acquired from Telefonica a controlling interest in Endemol. The Dutch production company buys Medusa, Italy's leading film production and distribution company. In 2008, they reached an agreement regarding the acquisition of Taodue.\n\nMediaset decides to enter the Chinese market by obtaining the licence to sell advertisements for China Global Media which in October launched the sports channel China Sport Network, a consortium of seven regional broadcasters with an audience reach of 400 million viewers. Publieurope which sells international advertising for the channel; launching a new free Italian digital terrestrial channel, Iris, featuring auteur cinema, music, literature and theatre.\n\nIn 2008, creation of Premium Gallery, a new digital terrestrial premium content offer available with a pre-paid card. Three new channels, Joi, Mya, Steel, where viewers can see exclusive previews of the best TV series and films from Time Warner and NBC-Universal. On July, the Gallery family is joined by the Disney Channel and Premium Calcio 24 kicks off. At 2008 end, the Premium Gallery offering further improved with the launch of Premium Fantasy, including four proposals dedicated to children and teenagers. In addition to Disney Channel and Disney Channel +1, the expanded offering includes: Playhouse Disney, Cartoon Network, Hiro.\n\nIn the same year, Telecinco enters the North American market with the acquisition of a 29.2% stake in Caribevision - a US broadcaster for the country's Spanish-speaking population - while a joint venture was established between Medusa Film and Taodue, leader in the production of quality TV dramas. The union of these two companies will lead to the creation of an Italian production unit which will compete with the main international majors.\n\nIn 2009, Mediaset sees the launch of new website.\n\nMediaset Premium will double its offer of cinema with the launch of Premium Cinema and the much anticipated re-launch of Studio Universal. On 20 November Mediaset Premium will launch a new feature: Premium-On-Demand, a digital library with 50 films, updated daily, and American TV series. Also 20 November Premium will also launch two features dedicated to the cinema: Premium Cinema Emotion and Premium Cinema Energy.\n\nPublitalia'80 and Mondadori Pubblicità, stipulated an agreement for the realisation of a joint initiative aiming at gathering advertising on line. On the basis of this agreement, a new company was founded on 30 July owned jointly by Mediamond.\n\nOn 31 July Mediaset sees the launch of Tivù Sat, Italy's first free digital satellite platform, built by a company jointly owned by RAI (48.25%), Mediaset (48.25%) and Telecom Italia Media (3.5%). TivùSat is a complementary platform to the existing digital terrestrial platform, and is able to reach areas of the country not covered by the terrestrial networks.\n\nOn 18 December 2009 Mediaset S.p.A., the subsidiary Telecinco and Gruppo Prisa approved and signed an agreement that foresees, conditional upon determined conditions being met, the acquisition by Telecinco of a newly founded company which will include the company part of Cuatro and its shareholding of 22% in Digital Plus.\n\nIn 2010, the title News Mediaset is operational: an internal press agency that will provide images, news and services for all of Mediaset's news structures. Two free-to-air channels were launched: La5, dedicated to a mainly female audience; Mediaset Extra, dedicated to Mediaset channels' entertainment programmes from yesterday and today.\n\nMediaset Premium see the launch of Premium Cinema HD: previews of films in HD. From October, Premium will broadcast, using the on demand system films in 3D. To watch the films viewers will need a 3D TV and a normal Premium On Demand HD decoder which, as well as providing a high definition signal, is also equipped to carry 3D.\n\nThe Commision Nacional de la Competencia (the Spanish antitrust commission), with a resolution dated 28 October 2010, authorised the acquisition by Gestevision Telecinco S.A. of exclusive control of Sociedad General De Television Cuatro S.A.U. through the purchase of 100% of its share capital, subordinate to certain conditions. Telecinco, having met the suspension conditions to which it was subjected, today acquired a 22% stake in \"DTS Distribuidora de Televisión Digital SA\" (\"Digital+\") and 100% of the share capital of \"Four Television SAU\" (\"Sogecuatro\"), holder, among other things, of the free-to-air channel \"Cuatro\". This operation resulted in the Mediaset Group becoming Spain?s biggest television operator.\n\nMediaset launched a new service called Premium Net TV, a new non-linear \"over-the-top\" TV system that offers films, TV series, cartoons, documentaries, football; in addition to all of the Mediaset channels' programmes of the last seven days and the entire offer can be seen also on a PC with the same quality as on TV. Premium Net TV is a completely open, independent network system, viewable with any Gold Stamp digital decoder and a broadband connection from any telephone carrier and it is included in the standard Mediaset Premium subscription, without any additional cost.\n\nMediaset launched four new channels on its digital terrestrial platform: BBC Knowledge and Discovery World that broadcast documentaries; while Premium Crime dedicated to enthusiasts of thrillers and detective stories and Premium Cinema Comedy to those who love both Italian and American light comedy.\n\nMediaset launched new three free-to-air channels: Me, in which Mediaset will reinforce its presence in the mail order sales sector with a new brand and a new approach; TgCom24, a new, live, free-to-air, all news channel, also available online in live streaming on the TgCom24 website, and on smartphones and tablets.\n\nIn November, Italian viewers can access Premium Play, a new TV service.\n\nMediaset launched a new service called Infinity, a new non-linear \"over-the-top\" TV system that offers films, TV series, cartoons, anime; in addition to all of the Mediaset channels' programmes.\n\nMediaset launched a new free-to-air channel: Top Crime.\n\nMediaset launched a two new free-to-air channel: 20 and Focus. Mediaset removed Mediaset HD Premium channels on 1 June 2018.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMilan\n\nRome\n\nIn January 2008, the European Court of Justice ruled that the TV frequencies used by Mediaset to broadcast Rete 4 were shared out unfairly. They should have been given to Europa 7, a competitor channel, the judges maintain, and Rete 4 should be broadcast via satellite instead. Although the Italian Council of State, the highest court on administrative matters, has confirmed that the Italian government should abide by this European ruling, Rete 4 continues its operation on analog frequencies and on DVB-T.\n\nOn 30 July 2008, Mediaset filed a lawsuit against Google for €500 million (US$779 million) charging copyright infringement. The company stated that 325 hours worth of material was uploaded to YouTube and the result was the loss of 315,672 viewing days and ad revenue.\n\nOn September 16, 2009, SKY Italia (fully owned by News Corporation) filed a lawsuit to the Court of Milan, Italy, against Reti Televisive Italiane and Publitalia '80 for a violation of Article 82 of European Treaty that regulates free economic competition between companies, in particular for refusing to allow SKY Italia to purchase advertising on the three main Mediaset television channels (Canale 5, Italia 1 and\nRete 4), exercising Article 700 of the Italian Civil Procedural Code who permit to require an urgent action.\nMediaset has rejected the charge of antitrust violations, stating that in 2009 it had broadcast SKY Italia commercials 3107 times on its channels, whereas SKY Italia has always refused to broadcast Mediaset commercials.\n\n"}
{"id": "35999753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35999753", "title": "Milton Johnson", "text": "Milton Johnson\n\n\"For the chairman and CEO of Hospital Corporation of America, see R. Milton Johnson.\"\n\nMilton Johnson (born May 15, 1950) is an American serial killer who committed up to ten known murders in Will County, Illinois. An abundance of evidence linked him to the crimes, including the murder of two police officers.\n\nOn Saturday July 16, 1983, at approximately 3:25 a.m. at 143rd and State, Will County Auxiliary Sergeant Denis Foley and Auxiliary Deputy Stephen Mayer were mortally wounded in an ambush slaying.\n\nThe deputies had been shot in what they thought was going to be a routine stop to help a motorist. They stopped to assist the driver of a pickup truck. The rear of the truck was blocking part of the road, while its front bumper was up against a red car parked in a rutted turn-around area. As the officers approached, their assailant said, \"We need a jump.\"\n\nWhen the officers exited their vehicle, the gunman suddenly shot both of them. Mayer died shortly after being shot; Foley was seriously wounded in the throat. A few minutes later another car came around the curve and slowed down. The gunman opened up on them. The driver was killed; a female passenger was shot six times. The car rolled on down the road and into a bean field. Wounded and frightened, the female went looking for help.\nThe deputies were in trouble but they couldn't be found and other officers were frantically searching in the darkness of rural Homer Township. Between 3:25 a.m. and 3:40 a.m., county police officers searched for Foley and Mayer.\n\nSergeant Foley, badly injured from one bullet that had shattered his mouth and teeth, attempted to speak over the police radio microphone. Most of his words were garbled. He couldn't give his location. He was instructed to turn on his siren and shine his spotlight in the air. Meanwhile, a farmer who lived in the area called county police to say he could hear racket behind his buildings, including a siren. Officers met the citizen and less than a minute later, the site of the ambush was located.\n\nAfter finding the two auxiliary deputies, responding units located the bodies of a 25-year-old female, and a 32-year-old male who had been in the car parked in front of the pickup truck. \n\nThe auxiliary officers' guns and wallets were missing. Mayer's body had been dragged across the gravel road and left in a ditch. In a reconstruction of the crime scene, it was determined that before he died, Mayer, as he leaned on 301A, had attempted to flag down the last car that was also ambushed. \"Stop! Stop!\" he had called out. As he was calling for help, the gunman had zigzagged between the front of the pickup truck and the squad car firing shots at the car. The female survivor saw a man in a uniform shirt shouting at them. She thought the officer was shooting at them.\n\nOn July 16, 1983, Patricia Payne and her boyfriend, Anthony Hackett, drove from their hometown of Emden, Illinois, and spent the day at Six Flags Great America Amusement Park in Gurnee, Illinois. That day, Hackett bought a stuffed doll depicting the popular Tasmanian Devil character; he placed the receipt for the doll in his wallet. Around 10 p.m., Payne and Hackett left the park and, on the way home, they stopped Hackett's car along Interstate 55 in Will County to sleep. Hackett slept in the front seat; Payne slept in the back. \n\nAround 1:30 a.m. on July 17, Payne awoke to tapping on the passenger-side window followed by gunshots which struck and killed Hackett. The assailant opened the passenger-side door and ordered Payne to give him Hackett's wallet and her purse. He then ordered Payne to crawl from the car and into a pickup truck parked nearby. The assailant climbed into the truck and drove down the interstate. While driving, the assailant sexually assaulted Payne; after exiting the interstate and stopping the truck, he raped her. \n\nThe assailant again started to drive, but pulled the truck onto the shoulder of the road 10 minutes later. The assailant then stabbed Payne in the chest and dumped her from the truck. Payne was found on the grassy median an hour later at 5:30 a.m. by a passing motorist. She had no pulse or blood pressure, and she was rushed to a Joliet hospital, where doctors performed emergency surgery. Payne survived.\n\nLater that morning, Special Agent John Meduga of the Illinois Department of Law Enforcement (now known as the Illinois State Police) spoke with Payne. Payne indicated to Meduga that her assailant was an African American man with no observable facial hair. Eight days later, Payne looked through approximately 1,500 mugshots and selected 42 photographs of persons with facial characteristics similar to her assailant, 34 of whom had facial hair. The record does not reveal whether the defendant's photograph was chosen by Payne. More than a month later, Payne looked through 137 mugshots, including one of the defendant, and selected four photographs of persons with facial hair and facial characteristics similar to her assailant. Payne did not choose the defendant's photograph.\n\nThe police investigation of these crimes stalled until information that Ann Shoemaker telephoned the Will County sheriff's office in August 1983 was turned over to the State Police in February 1984. Shoemaker described an incident in which a dark pickup truck had played cat and mouse game with her while she was driving one night in July 1983. She and a friend followed the truck and recorded its license plate number. After seeing the driver was not someone they knew, tried to get away. On March 6, 1984, she gave this number to the police, who traced it to a truck owned by Sam Myers, Johnson's stepfather. \n\nAfter Myers signed a consent form, the police searched the truck and found Caucasian head hairs similar to Payne's hair, bloodstains, a steak knife, reddish brown fibers, and a sales receipt for a Tasmanian Devil stuffed doll. Based on these items, the police obtained a search warrant for Myers' residence, where the defendant lived. The police seized three .357 Magnum cartridges from a dresser in Myers' bedroom.\n\nAlso on March 6, 1984, Payne looked at five mugshots. Johnson's photograph was the only one among the five which Payne had seen on September 6, 1983. After several minutes, Payne tentatively identified the defendant as her assailant. On March 9, Payne viewed a six-person lineup. After each person in the lineup repeated commands that the assailant had given Payne on the night of her ordeal, Payne unmistakably identified the defendant as her assailant.\n\nInitially, the Will County public defender was appointed to represent the defendant. On June 1, 1984, the day before the scheduled trial date, William Swano entered his appearance as the defendant's retained attorney. The trial court granted Swano three continuances, totaling 55 days, and set the trial date for July 26, 1984. \n\nThe defendant moved for a change of venue, citing negative pretrial publicity in Will County, and the trial court transferred the case to Iroquois County. Following a jury trial, the defendant was convicted of the first degree murder of Hackett, as well as the aggravated kidnapping, deviate sexual assault, rape, and attempted murder of Payne. The defendant waived his right to a sentencing jury, and the trial court found the defendant eligible for the death penalty. \n\nThe trial court further found no mitigating circumstances sufficient to preclude the death penalty and sentenced the defendant to death for Hackett's murder and to concurrent terms of 40 years' imprisonment for deviate sexual assault, rape, and attempted murder. On direct appeal, this court affirmed the defendant's convictions and sentences. See People v. Johnson, 114 Ill. 2d 170 (1986).\n\nJohnson then filed a pro se post-conviction petition in the Will County circuit court, alleging that he received ineffective assistance of counsel on direct appeal and in post-conviction proceedings. The trial court granted the state's motion to dismiss the petition. On appeal, they affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded. The court held that the trial court properly dismissed Johnson's claim of ineffective assistance of appellate counsel, but that the trial court improperly dismissed Johnson's claim relating to his post-conviction attorney's performance. See People v. Johnson, 154 Ill. 2d 227 (1993).\n\nJohnson is serving his sentence in Menard Correctional Center.\n"}
{"id": "52710841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52710841", "title": "Miquel Hudin", "text": "Miquel Hudin\n\nMiquel Hudin is an American-Croatian wine writer based in Catalonia, Spain.\n\nAs a technology entrepreneur, he co-founded The Tender, a local news website for San Francisco's Tenderloin. as well as Maneno, a non-profit startup focused on creating a platform for news and blogging in Africa, in local languages.\n\nBeing a wine lover for years, he saw a lack of approachable, practical wine books, and in response, created a new series called, Vinologue upon which he currently focuses.\n\nOriginally from the interior of Northern California, Miquel moved to San Francisco for university and while there, started working for the Inglenook winery in Napa Valley in 1999. He worked in various other wine trade capacities including an importer of Central European wines which lead to a growing interest in wine. During this time, he was also involved with the Maneno (2008-2010) and The Tender (2009-2011) citizen journalism projects.\n\nAfter traveling extensively around the Former Yugoslavia, he founded the Vinologue series in 2008. The premise of the books was to bridge the gap between traditional travel guidebooks and large, glossy wine books to make various wine regions as approachable as possible to wine drinkers of any level. One of the most recent books in the series he wrote for the Priorat region in Catalonia received a Gourmand Award in 2014. He is personally active in promoting the quality wines of boutique cellars from both DOQ Priorat as well as DO Montsant.\n\nSince moving to Catalonia, Spain in 2012, he has been a regular contributor to Decanter, The World of Fine Wine, Harpers Wine & Spirit, Guild of Sommeliers, JancisRobinson.com, and the Catalan language publication, Vadevi. He also regularly judges in international wine competitions and leads wine courses.\n\nHe holds the Certified Sommelier title from the Court of Master Sommeliers as well as the Certified Sherry Educator. His wine blog, \"Wine on VI\" was a Finalist for the 2016 Millésima blog awards and in June 2016, he was selected as the recipient of the Geoffrey Roberts Award for a forthcoming book on the wines for the Republic of Georgia. He was also named \"Best Drink Writer of the Year\" in the annual Fortnum & Mason Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "17947226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17947226", "title": "Nikolay Karlovich Krabbe", "text": "Nikolay Karlovich Krabbe\n\nNikolay Karlovich Krabbe () (September 19, 1814 – January 3, 1876) was an admiral of the Russian Imperial Navy.\n\nAfter graduating from naval academy joined the corps of navy cadets () and in 1832 was promoted midshipman in the Baltic Fleet serving on the frigates \"Belton\", \"Kulm\" and \"Oranienbaum\". In 1836-1837 he was sent to the Caspian Sea, participating in the naval operations during the Caucasian War. His bravery during the war earned him the rank of lieutenant. In 1838 Krabbe was appointed the General Staff of the Imperial Navy, as aide-de-camp to prince L.S. Menshikov.\n\nIn 1839 he was sent to the Azov Sea to organize a naval expedition along the northern coast of the Black Sea, being in command of a squadron under admiral Mikhail Petrovich Lazarev at that time in head of the Black Sea Fleet. Promoted captain lieutenant in 1842, he was part of the Russian mission led by admiral Yevfimy Vasilievich Putyatin to Iran. Thereafter, in 1847, he was in charge of a naval expedition exploring the delta of the Syr Darya. He returned to the Black Sea Fleet in 1853, being in command of a squadron under viceadmiral Lazar Markovich Serebryakov.\n\nThe same year he was promoted imperial aide-de-camp and appointed deputy director of the Ministry of Navy's Inspection Department. Two years later he became director of the department. He returned to active duty during the Crimean War, returning to the Ministry after the war. While working at the Inspection Department he was actively involved in the equipment of the vessels to be stationed in the delta of the Amur River, creating the first Russian naval base in the Far East, on the Pacific Ocean.\n\nHis career continued rapidly: Nikolay Krabbe was promoted counter admiral în 1856, viceadmiral in 1862 and admiral in 1869. În 1860 he was appointed Minister of the Navy, holding his position for 14 years. His main concern was the modernization of the Russian navy. His main concern was the naval artillery and he was instrumental in the building of the Obukhovsky Steel Foundry (now Obukhov State Plant) for the production of naval guns. He also started modernizing the fleet from wooden vessels to metal plated ships and from sailing ships to ships equipped with steam engines. He also made the arrangement for Grand Duke Alexei Alexandrovich's visit the United States.\n\nIn 1874 he was relieved of his duties as Minister of the Navy and appointed vice General Admiral of the Russian Imperial Navy. Nikolay Krabbe died on January 3, 1876 \n"}
{"id": "3190123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3190123", "title": "Paco Rabanne", "text": "Paco Rabanne\n\nFrancisco \"Paco\" Rabaneda Cuervo (born 18 February 1934), more commonly known under the pseudonym of Paco Rabanne (; ), is a Spanish fashion designer of Basque origin who became known as \"l'enfant terrible\" (unruly child) of the 1960s French fashion world.\n\nRabanne was born 18 February 1934 in the Basque town of Pasajes, Gipuzkoa province. His father, a Republican Colonel, was executed by Francoist troops during the Spanish Civil War. He fled Spain for France with his mother after the Francoists won the war, in 1939. His education was originally in architecture.\n\nHe started his career in fashion by creating jewelry for Givenchy, Dior, and Balenciaga and founded his own fashion house in 1966. He used unconventional material such as metal, paper, and plastic for his Metal Couture and outlandish and flamboyant designs.\n\nRabanne is known for the green costume worn by Jane Fonda in the 1968 science-fiction film \"Barbarella\". Françoise Hardy was a big fan of Rabanne's designs. The popular French singer Mylène Farmer continues to bring the extravagance of Paco Rabanne to her live concerts.\n\nIn 1968, he began collaborating with fragrance company Puig, which resulted in the company marketing Rabanne's perfumes. In 1976, the company built a perfume factory in Chartres, France. In the 1980s, in Brazil, his men's perfume brand registration was forfeited due to a court judgement that the brand was never officially present in Brazil despite heavy advertising and a strong local awareness. The court reasoned that because the Puig's local distributor was smuggling perfume into Brazil, the company could not show proof of payment of import duties. It took six or seven years to recover his brand name in Brazil.\n\nIn 2005, Rabanne opened in Moscow, Russia, the first exhibition of his drawings. His reasoning for showing the drawings then was, \"I am 72 years old and I wanted to present my drawings this year before disappearing from this planet. I have not shown them to anyone except Salvador Dalí 30 years ago who told me to keep going.\" One of the black-and-white sketches depicts a child letting go of a dove and a white balloon into the sky, which he said was inspired by the commemoration ceremony for the 2004 Beslan attack in Beslan, North Ossetia, in which 319 hostages were killed, including 186 children, 12 servicemen, and 31 hostage-takers. Rabanne wanted the money that the drawing sold for to go to the women of Beslan.\n\nIn 2006, Rabanne visited Kiev, Ukraine. He summed up the changes since the Orange Revolution: \"Ukraine reminds me of a flower unfolding its petals before my very eyes.\"\n\nRabanne has religious or at least spiritual interests, and once wrote a book called \"Has the Countdown Begun? Through Darkness to Enlightenment\".\n\n"}
{"id": "17856890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17856890", "title": "Peng Chong", "text": "Peng Chong\n\nPeng Chong (; March 1915 – October 18, 2010 ), born Xu Tieru (), was a member of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) Central Committee (1969–87) and its politburo (1977–82); and Secretary General of the National People’s Congress between 1988 and 1992.\n\nPeng Chong, originally named Xu Tieru (許鐵如), was born in Zhangzhou, Fujian in 1915. Unlike most CCP leaders of his generation, he graduated from middle school, and by the age of 15 was active in underground communist activities in his home county. As leader of the local student movement, he joined the Communist Youth League in 1933, and the Party a year later, eventually rising to the post of local Organization Department Director.\nIn 1938, Peng was a regimental political officer in the central Jiangsu New Fourth Army, a district administrator (1938–39) in Wuxian, and back to being a regimental cadre in 1940-42 in the 52nd Regiment of the 18th Brigade, 6th Division, under Tan Zhenlin and Rao Shoukun. At the close of the war, Peng was county CCP Secretary in Taizhou (1945).\n\nDuring the post-war reorganization, the New Fourth Army was merged into the East China Field Army and, later, the Third Field Army. In 1947-49, Peng served as deputy political commissar for the 6th Division, under Rao Shushi.\n\nPeng Chong emerged from the civil war as provincial government deputy secretary general, and Director of the Fujian Province CCP United Front Department (UFD), and deputy head of the East China’s Bureau UFD. The latter work put him in close contact with overseas Chinese groups, Hong Kong and Taiwanese communities outside Taiwan. Peng’s work in Fujian put him in close contact with future leaders such as Ye Fei, Fang Yi and Xu Jiatun.\n\nAfter working in Fujian reconstruction for several years, Peng served briefly in the party’s East China Bureau in 1954, and then was named Mayor and CCP Deputy Secretary of Nanjing, in the summer of 1955. In 1956, he took over as 1st Secretary from Xu Jiatun. He appears to have warmly embraced the \"Hundred Flowers\" liberalization movement, and equally enthusiastically crushed it when the time came. His response to the Great Leap Forward was similar: in March 1958, Mao Zedong singled out Nanjing and Tianjin as laggards, after which Peng modestly increased his official enthusiasm. In January 1959, he was elevated to the provincial CCP Standing Committee, and some months later gave up his position as mayor of Nanjing.\n\nIn 1960, Peng moved into provincial-level work full-time, and relinquished his position as head of the Nanjing party apparatus, a promotion that enabled him to visit the USSR in 1962. However, sometime between December 1962 and January 1964 (reports differ), Peng once again was identified as Nanjing 1st Secretary, yet retained his provincial culture and media posts. At the end of 1965, he was elevated to the post of Secretary of the provincial CCP Secretariat, a role in charge of day-to-day party affairs.\n\nThe Jiangsu provincial leadership was broadly targeted for \"struggle\" in the Cultural Revolution, and responded with the typical effort to control the Red Guard, battle radicals with outside workers and, inevitably, violence. While the more forceful responses would have been the responsibility of more senior people such as Nanjing Military Region Commander Xu Shiyou, Peng’s involvement in the first phases is clear.\n\nPeng was denounced by the Red Guard in 1967 for his official visit to the USSR and his post-trip comment that China might learn something from Soviet art. Nevertheless, he was named the sole civilian provincial Revolutionary Committee Vice Chair in March 1968. Aligning his star with the armed forces led to Alternate Membership of the 9th National People’s Congress Central Committee a year later. When order, and the provincial party committee were restored in 1970, Peng was made a Deputy Secretary, again as the sole civilian.\n\nXu Shiyou’s 1974 transfer to Guangzhou opened up space for Peng Chong to become 1st CCP Secretary and Chairman of the Jiangsu Revolutionary Committee. This brief role positioned him to play a more pivotal role in neutralizing the Gang of Four’s supporters in Shanghai following the October 1976 coup d’état. Peng, General Su Zhenhua and labor politico Ni Zhifu were sent to Shanghai to take power from the radical left, while long-time ally Xu Jiatun remained behind as Jiangsu secretary.\n\nAlthough Peng was nominally 3rd CCP Secretary of Shanghai, his two nominal superiors’ national-level responsibilities left him as de facto boss. As a reward for his loyalty and efficiency in purging Shanghai, he was elevated to the politburo in August 1977. Peng added a National People's Congress (NPC) Vice Chairmanship to his titles (1978–87), and was formally named Shanghai 1st Secretary in early 1979, due to Su Zhenhua’s death, and mayor at the end of the year. He remained affiliated with Shanghai until 1981, when he was succeeded in the party and state roles by Chen Guodong and Wang Daohan, respectively. Among his top priorities was establishing a merit-based education system.\n\nIn 1980, Peng was promoted to work directly for Hu Yaobang in the CCP Central Committee Secretariat, his first move out of provincial politics. However, in September 1982, at the 12th National Party Congress, Peng Chong lost his politburo seat and that on the Secretariat. His last posts were as Vice Chairman and Secretary-General (1988–93) of the National People’s Congress.\n"}
{"id": "12938012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12938012", "title": "Ponç de la Guàrdia", "text": "Ponç de la Guàrdia\n\nPonç de la Guàrdia (or Pons de la Guardia; fl. 1154–1188) was a Catalan knight of the family of Saguàrdia, lords of the castle of Ripoll. He was not a professional jongleur, but a troubadour who wrote songs for amusement which were much celebrated, so we are told, by Occitan women.\n\nPonç participated in the Siege of Conca (1177) on the side of Alfonso II of Aragon and a little later in the campaign to bring Raymond V of Toulouse to heel.\n\nHe wrote four amorous compositions which form a small cycle dedicated to an anonymous lady called \"On-tot-mi-platz\". It has been suggested by one editor of his works, that nine of his songs form a cycle with the plot of a \"roman d'amour\", but the ordering of these cycles is not the same in the different manuscripts, one of which considers them anonymous. Ponç is one of the few troubadours suspected of anthologising his own works. Though his work is all in Occitan, some Catalan words make appearances.\n\n"}
{"id": "230337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230337", "title": "Robert Morris (financier)", "text": "Robert Morris (financier)\n\nRobert Morris, Jr. (January 20, 1734 – May 8, 1806), a Founding Father of the United States, was an English-born American merchant who financed the American Revolution, oversaw the striking of the first coins of the United States, and signed the Declaration of Independence, the Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union, and the United States Constitution. Along with Alexander Hamilton and Albert Gallatin, he is widely regarded as one of the founders of the financial system of the United States.\n\nBorn in Liverpool, Morris migrated to the United States in his teens, quickly becoming a successful businessman. In the aftermath of the French and Indian War (1754–1763), Morris became a prominent opponent of unpopular British policies like the Stamp Act in 1765. He was elected to the Pennsylvania Assembly, became the chairman of the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety, and was chosen as a delegate to the Second Continental Congress. He served as chairman of the \"Secret Committee of Trade\" and as a member of the Committee of Correspondence. Though reluctant to break with Britain, he ultimately came to support the independence movement and emerged as an important financier of the American Revolutionary War (1775–1783).\n\nFrom 1781 to 1784, he served as the Superintendent of Finance of the United States, a forerunner to the position of U.S. Secretary of the Treasury. As the central civilian in the government, Morris was, next to General George Washington, \"the most powerful man in America\". His successful administration led to the sobriquet, \"Financier of the Revolution\". At the same time he was Agent of Marine, a position he took without pay, and from which he controlled the Continental Navy. He successfully proposed numerous policies including the creation of a national bank, but many of his ideas were not enacted. In 1783, Morris oversaw the creation of the first US coins, the Nova Constellatio patterns, which illustrated his plan for a national decimal coinage; although the plan was not adopted, his coins were examined by both Alexander Hamilton and Thomas Jefferson, influencing both men in their creation of the decimal monetary system that is used by the United States today. In 1787, he was elected as a delegate to the Philadelphia Convention, which created a more powerful federal government.\n\nMorris declined Washington's offer to serve as the nation's first Treasury Secretary, instead suggesting that Washington appoint Hamilton to the position. Morris represented Pennsylvania in the Senate from 1789 to 1795, during which time he aligned with the Federalist Party and supported Hamilton's economic policies. Morris invested a considerable portion of his fortune in land shortly before the Panic of 1796–1797, which led to his bankruptcy in 1798, and he spent several years in debtors' prison, until the United States Congress passed a bankruptcy act to release him. After he left prison in 1801, he lived a quiet, private life in a modest home in Philadelphia until his death in 1806.\n\nMorris was born to Robert Morris, Sr. and Elizabeth Murphet in Toxteth, Liverpool, Lancashire, England, on January 20, 1734. At the age of 13, Morris immigrated to Oxford, Maryland, to live with his father, who was a tobacco factor. As a youth, Morris was provided a tutor and was a quick learner.\n\nHis father sent him to Philadelphia to study where he stayed with Charles Greenway, a family friend. Greenway arranged for young Robert to become an apprentice at the shipping and banking firm of the Philadelphia merchant (and then mayor) Charles Willing. A year later, Robert's father died after being wounded in an accident when hit by the wadding of a ship's gun that was fired in his honor.\n\nWhen Charles Willing died in 1754, his son Thomas Willing made Morris his partner at age 24. They established the prominent shipping-banking firm of Willing, Morris & Co. on May 1, 1757. The partnership lasted until about 1779.\n\nOn March 2, 1769, at age 35, Morris married 20-year-old Mary White. White was the daughter of a wealthy and prestigious Maryland landholder, but was residing in Philadelphia. Together they had five sons and two daughters. White came from a prominent family in Maryland; her brother was the well-known Episcopal Bishop William White.\n\nMorris worshipped in Philadelphia at St. Peter's Church on Pine Street and Christ Church on 2nd Street, both of which were run by his brother-in-law, William White. Morris remained a constant worshipper and supporter of these congregations for his entire life. Both Morris and White are buried in the churchyard located at 2nd and Market Sts. Because of the locations and reputations of Christ Church and St. Peter’s Church in Philadelphia, they served as places of worship for a number of the notable members of the Continental Congress, sometimes including George Washington.\n\nIn 1757, Morris became a business partner with Thomas Willing. Their partnership was a merchant firm with interests in shipping, real estate, and other lines of business. The partnership was forged just after the Seven Years' War began (1754–1763), which hindered attracting the usual supply of new indentured servants to the colony. Potential immigrants were conscripted in England to fight in Europe, and the contracts for those already in the colonies in America were expiring. Indentured servants could legally break their contracts to join the British forces to fight against the French and their Indian allies.\n\nAt the same time, the British Crown wanted to encourage the slave trade which was profitable for the King's political allies in the African Company of Merchants. While Morris was a junior partner and Willing was pursuing a political career, the company Willing, Morris & Co. co-signed a petition calling for the repeal of Pennsylvania's tariff on imported slaves. (About 200 slaves were imported into Philadelphia in 1762, the height of the trade; most were brought in by the Rhode Islanders D'Wolf, Aaron Lopez, and Jacob Rivera.)\n\nWilling, Morris & Co funded its own slave-trading voyage. The ship did not carry enough to be profitable and, during a second trip, was captured by French privateers. The firm handled two slave auctions for other importers, offering a total of 23 slaves. In 1762, the firm advertised an agency sale in Wilmington, Delaware for over 100 Gold Coast slaves. The ship had docked in Wilmington to avoid the tariff. In 1765, on their last reported agency deal (out of a total of eight), the firm advertised 17 slaves who were brought in from Africa on the ship \"Marquis de Granby\". The slaves were not sold in Philadelphia, as the owner took the ship and all the slaves to Jamaica.\n\nBoth partners authored the non-importation agreements that marked the end of all trade with Britain, including the importation of slaves. Robert Morris led to the abolition of the slave trade in the north not due to a moral obligation but to remove request for his daily life from those in the north. They became advocates for free trade, which would end the kind of trade restrictions that gave rise to the business. As a government official, Morris tried to tax the domestic slave trade, and to lay a head tax on the slaves payable by the owner. His efforts were resisted by the Southerners who fought all his measures. Pennsylvania passed a law for gradual abolition of slavery in 1780 at his lead. Philadelphia County at the time had no slave registrations making it impossible to determine who in Philadelphia owned slaves in 1780. Western farmers petitioned the Assembly for relief from the abolition law, but Morris's allies in the state government resisted these attempts. Morris commented that slave trading was not profitable and would prefer blankets and the speed of trips to England over slave trade to Africa and virtually eliminated the slave trade to the northern colonies. Morris's efforts led to the virtual end of slavery in the north before the revolutionary war.\n\nWilling, Morris & Co. ships traded with India, the Levant, the West Indies, Spanish Cuba, Spain, and Italy. The firm's business of import, export, and general agency made it one of the most prosperous in Pennsylvania. In 1784, Morris, with other investors, underwrote the voyage of the ship \"Empress of China\", the first American vessel to visit the Chinese mainland. Among the investors were Samuel Miles, who built a sugar refinery in Philadelphia; John Holker, French Agent; and Daniel Parker, merchant. The ship embarked from New York harbor for China on Washington's birthday, February 22, 1784.\n\nIn 1786 Washington wrote to Morris discussing his hopes for the democratic process bringing an end to slavery. His reference to how escaped slaves made their way to the North is taken as the first reference and led to Robert Morris funding the initial aspects of this enterprise Underground Railroad. The 1790 census is the first in Philadelphia County that lists slaveholders by name.\n\nThe Stamp Act of 1765–1766 was a tax on all legal documents. The merchants banded together to end what they saw as an unconstitutional tax. Morris began his public career in 1765 by serving on a local committee of merchants organized to protest the Stamp Act. He mediated between a mass meeting of protesters and the Stamp Tax collector, whose house they threatened to pull down \"brick by brick\" unless the collector did not carry out his job. Morris remained loyal to Britain, but he believed that the new laws constituted taxation without representation and violated the colonists' rights as British citizens. In the end, Britain lifted the stamp tax.\n\nAfter Britain passed the Tea Tax, the tea ship \"Polly\" reached the lower Delaware Bay. Philadelphia ordered the bay pilots not to bring it to port. Morris was a warden of the port at that time. Captain Ayers brought the \"Polly\" into port by following another ship up the bay which set off a protest. At least 20 percent of the population filled the street as Ayers was escorted to the State House. A meeting with Ayers and the port wardens, including Morris, was held. Ayers agreed to leave Philadelphia without delivering any taxed tea.\n\nMorris was elected to the Pennsylvania Council of Safety (1775–1776), the Committee of Correspondence, the Provincial Assembly (1775–1776), and the Pennsylvania legislature (1776–1778). He was also elected to represent Pennsylvania in the Second Continental Congress from 1775 to 1778.\n\nIn 1775 the Continental Congress contracted with Morris's company to work with the Secret Committee of Trade after March 14, 1776. He devised a system to smuggle war supplies from France a year before independence was declared. He handled much of the financial transactions, contracting with merchants and business firms to obtain needed war material and purchasing commodities for export to pay for it.\n\nHe served with John Adams on the committee that wrote the Model Treaty. The Model Treaty incorporated his long held belief in free trade. It was an outgrowth of his trading system, and acted as the basis for the 1778 Treaty with France.\n\nHe served on the Marine and Maritime Committees and gave his best ship, \"The Black Prince,\" to the Continental Congress along with over 1900 other ships from his personal navy. It was renamed as the USS \"Alfred\", the first ship in the Mid-Atlantic area Second Squadron of ships Continental Navy. John Barry, a captain who sailed for his company, became the captain of the \"Alfred.\" The first Continental Navy ship, the Hannah, was commissioned on September 2, 1775 in Marblehead, Massachusetts, and was one of the seven \"Washington Cruisers\" commissioned by Commander in Chief George Washington to attack British supply ships at sea headed for Boston. The Hannah was named for the wife of Colonel, later General, John Glover, its owner, who was key in the evacuation of the Continental Army at Brooklyn Heights in August 1776, and in Crossing the Delaware to attack Trenton on the morning of December 26, 1776.\n\nMorris used his extensive international trading network as a spy network and gathered intelligence on British troop movements. One of his spies sent the information that allowed the Americans to defend Fort Moultrie near Charleston, South Carolina.\n\nOn July 1, 1776, Morris voted against the Congressional motion for independence. The Pennsylvania delegation, which was split 4–3, cast its vote in the negative. The following day, Morris and John Dickinson agreed to abstain, allowing the other Pennsylvania delegates to vote for independence. Robert Morris vote of abstention is considered the most pivotal in the process as he was a needed entity for the revolution. The final vote was 12 states in favor and no states opposed. (New York's delegates voted later.) On August 2, Morris signed the Declaration of Independence saying, \"I am not one of those politicians that run testy when my own plans are not adopted. I think it is the duty of a good citizen to follow when he cannot lead.\" and \"While I do not wish to see my countrymen die on the field of battle nor do I wish to see them live in tyranny\".\n\nMorris personally paid £100,000,000 (about £4,500,000,000 today) to pay the Continental troops under Washington. During the war the combined expenditures of Robert Morris towards the American Revolution and subsequent events would be in excess of $300,000,000 (about $15,575,000,000 today) not including materials and ships and the balance of the colonist would contribute $800,000 (about $36,000,000 today). He helped to keep the Army together just before the Battle of Princeton. He subsequently paid from his own funds the troops via \"Morris Notes\" to continue Washington's ability to wage war as the US currency had no value.\n\nIn March 1778, Morris signed the Articles of Confederation as a representative of Pennsylvania.\n\nDuring the war, privateers seized the cargo of English ships. Morris owned an interest in many of the privateers and his firm helped sell the English spoils as they came into port. In addition to owning ships that carried cargo to Cuba, France, and Spain, he was accused of profiteering, but these accusations were proven to be false. John Jay, the president of Congress, even wrote him an apology. Morris wrote a friend that his firm had had over 1000 ships during the war and so came out \"about even\". He had lost one of the largest private navies in the world during the War, but he never asked for reimbursement from the new government. Morris also personally supplied the funding for 90 percent of all bullets fired during the war and almost 95 percent of all other expenses for the fledgling government, though he also never asked to be reimbursed for these expenses. He used his remaining money to buy shares in a variety of ships that waged an economic war on Britain. During this period he acted as a commercial agent for John Holker, a French national who was one of many military contractors who dealt with the French and American forces.\n\nWhile many in popular culture often make reference to the size of John Hancock's signature on the Declaration of Independence, it was the Rob Morris that led the King to refer to as the \"most damming name of all\".\n\nDuring this time Thomas Paine, Henry Laurens, and others criticized him and his firm for alleged war profiteering. In 1779, a congressional committee acquitted Morris and his firm on charges of engaging in improper financial transactions, but his reputation was damaged after this incident. Robert Morris told the committee \"I lost over 1000 ships and gained some beaver pelts... .\"\n\nImmediately after serving in the Congress, Morris served two more terms in the state legislature, from 1778 to 1781. While he was in the Pennsylvania Assembly, Morris worked on the constitution and legislation to restore checks and balances, and to overturn the religious test laws. These had excluded from voting 40 percent of the state's citizens, including Quakers, Jews, and Mennonites.\n\nOn October 4, 1779, an angry mob, who supported the \"Constitutionalist\" faction in opposition to Morris and his allies, tried to chase James Wilson from his home in Philadelphia. The mob was in the process of aiming a cannon at Wilson's home when the First City Troop came to his rescue. Five men were killed in the battle of \"Fort Wilson\". Constitutionalists in Pennsylvania ran off their political opposites and confiscated their property. James Wilson went on to argue against slavery, defend Haym Salomon from fraud, sign the Constitution, and become a Supreme Court justice.\nMorris supplied the majority of war materials to the troops when the state failed to act. Pennsylvania went bankrupt in 1780 due to Constitutionalist policies which mandated state-controlled markets and self-imposed embargoes. Ultimately the state called on Morris to restore the economy. He did so by opening the ports to trade, and allowing the market to set the value of goods and the currency.\n\nIn 1781, the US was in a crisis. The British controlled the coast line from the sea, two major cities, and the western frontier. The treasury was in debt by $25 million (about $ today) and public credit had collapsed, of which he again paid this debt from his personal funds. With the failure of their own policies, Congress changed from the committee systems they had used for years and created the first executive offices in American history. Morris held the offices of Finance and Marine. His detractors worried he was gaining \"dictatorial powers\". In a unanimous vote, Congress appointed Morris to be Superintendent of Finance of the United States from 1781 to 1784. In defending himself from would-be critics, Morris insisted Congress allow him to continue his private endeavors while serving in a related public office. He was not active in private business during this term but remained a silent partner in various companies.\n\nThree days after becoming Superintendent of Finance, Morris proposed to establish a national bank, as urged by Alexander Hamilton. The first financial institution chartered by the United States, the Bank of North America, was founded in 1782. The bank was funded in part by a significant loan Morris had obtained from France in 1781. The initial role of the bank was to finance the war against Britain.\n\nAs Superintendent of Finance, Morris instituted several reforms, including reducing the civil list, significantly cutting government spending by using competitive bidding for contracts, tightening accounting procedures, and demanding the federal government's full share of support (money and supplies) from the States. Morris obtained supplies for the army of Nathanael Greene in 1779, and from 1781–1783.\n\nHe took an active role in helping move Washington and his army from New York State to Yorktown, Virginia. He was in Washington's camp the day the move was initiated. He acted as quartermaster for the trip and supplied over $114 million (about $ today) in his own credit to supply the Army. He was also Agent of Marine and coordinated with the French Navy to get Washington's Army to the Battle of Yorktown (1781). After Yorktown, Morris noted the war had changed from a war of bullets to a war of finances.\n\nDuring his tenure as Superintendent, Morris was assisted by his friend and assistant Gouverneur Morris (no relation). He proposed a national economic system in a document called \"On Public Credit\". This was the basis for Hamilton's plan of the same name submitted much later to Congress. The Morrises proposed to make the American currency a decimal currency, a progressive idea at the time.\n\nOn January 15, 1782 Morris drafted a proposal that he later presented to the Continental Congress to recommend the establishment of a national mint and decimal coinage. However, the United States Mint was not established until 1792, after further proposals by Hamilton and Jefferson.\n\nAs of January 1, 1783 the public debt was $42 million of which 18.77 percent was foreign debt and 81.23 percent was owned at home.<br>In a report to the President of Congress Morris wrote:\nof which\nThe rest being unliquidated debts, etc., interest.\n\nIn 1783, Morris was believed to be one of the main conspirators in the Newburgh Conspiracy. Morris's lifelong enemy Arthur Lee spread rumors about his participation. The author of the Newburgh letter was Major Armstrong, a partisan for the faction that opposed Morris's policies in the Pennsylvania state house. Its members were often allied with Lee. After Morris's resignation in 1784, a treasury board was set up including Arthur Lee; in either 1794 or 1795 those old Commercial Committee accounts were brought to a settlement—a June 1796 entry in the Treasury debt against Morris for $9,312.63. Morris would explain in 1800 in debtors' prison that in fact the debt was due not just to himself but also his partners John Ross and Thomas Willing.\n\n In 1781, Robert Morris purchased a house at 190 High Street in Philadelphia from John Holker. He rebuilt and lived there while he was Superintendent of Finance, and Agent of Marine. When the Federal Government moved from New York, he offered his home to his friend George Washington. Washington was familiar with the place, since he had stayed there with Morris during the Constitutional Convention. John Adams occupied it in turn. Morris initially offered his city home to Washington for free, but to avoid the appearance of improper influence, he rented the house for $1 a year to the city of Philadelphia to be used as the presidential residence. Philadelphia was the temporary US capital from 1790–1800 during the construction of Washington, D.C. Morris moved next door, into another house he owned on the corner of 6th and High (Market) Sts.\n\nThe last remaining wall of President's House was taken down for redevelopment when Independence Mall was created. In the late 20th century, the foundations of the President's House were rediscovered during archeological work related to construction of the Liberty Center. The site, a few steps away from the Liberty Bell, has been designated a national memorial. It is commemorated with an outline of the house indicated above ground and exhibits about the early federal period. Its interpretation focuses on the first two Presidents, their families, and the nine enslaved Africans who worked in Washington's presidential household.\n\nIn 1787, Morris was elected to the Constitutional Convention. He arranged to have Gouverneur Morris appointed to the Pennsylvania delegation. Although Robert Morris said little at the Convention, Gouverneur and his lawyer, James Wilson, were two of the three most talkative men there. Both opposed slavery during the Convention. Gouverneur Morris wrote the polished draft of the Constitution. While it was widely known at the time that Morris was active behind the scenes, his only significant public role of record during the Convention was to nominate his friend George Washington as its president. His nomination of Washington was done to end any questions as he was the only other person considered for that role by the leaders of the new country.\n\nWashington wanted to appoint Morris as the first Secretary of the Treasury in 1789, but Morris declined and suggested Alexander Hamilton for the position, who supported his policies. Morris was elected by the Pennsylvania legislature to serve as a United States Senator from 1789 to 1795. Morris was on 41 Senatorial committees and reported for many of them. He supported the Federalist economic program, which included internal improvements such as canals and lighthouses to aid commerce. As senator he generally supported the Federalist party and backed Hamilton's economic proposals. Hamilton used principles similar to those in Morris's report \"On Public Credit\", submitted some 10 years earlier.\n\nPennsylvania State assemblyman Hugh Henry Brackenridge lost a bid for re-election because he opposed popular sentiment against the Bank of North America. At a dinner a guest accused Morris of using the bank to enrich himself personally. Brackenridge retorted, \"the people are fools; if they would let Mr. Morris alone, he would make Pennsylvania a great people, but they will not suffer him to do it.\" Another legislator at the party, William Findley publicized the remark and the subsequent controversy led to Brackenridge's electoral defeat.\n\nIn 1784 Morris was part of a syndicate that backed the sailing of the Empress of China (1783) for the China trade. On March 7, 1791, Morris obtained title to a lot from John Dickinson and wife; on March 9, 1793, the site was surveyed; it wasn't until 1794 he began construction of a mansion on Chestnut Street in Philadelphia designed by Pierre Charles L'Enfant. The structure was of red brick and marble lining; the last credit for the house was July 2, 1801 and the last charge for it was made July 9, 1801; L'Enfant was paid $9,037.13 between December 1795 and January 1799. Despite the spent amount of £6138 5s 10d the structure was never completed. The unfinished mansion became known as \"Morris's folly\", and the land eventually became Sansom Street. Marble from this house was purchased by Latrobe; he used it to adorn buildings and monuments from Rhode Island to Charlestown, South Carolina.\n\nOn March 12, 1791, he contracted with Massachusetts to purchase a portion of Western New York west of the Genesee River for $666,666.66. The land, which had been a substantial portion of the Phelps and Gorham Purchase after Phelps and Gorham failed to extinguish Indian title to this tract and had defaulted on payment in 1790, was conveyed to Morris in five deeds on May 11, 1791 except for the Mill Yard Tract, which Phelps and Gorham retained, along with their other lands \"east\" of the Genesee. Morris paid Massachusetts $333,333.34 (about $ today). A partner of Morris in the Phelps and Gorham Purchase was land speculator James Greenleaf. Morris' purchase from Massachusetts was for some . Morris almost immediately resold through his London agent William Temple Franklin to the Pulteney Associates, led by Sir William Pulteney. He sold at more than double the price he had paid. Sir William Pulteney bought 9/12ths interest, William Hornby 2/12ths, and Patrick Colquhoun 1/12th interest. At the time non-citizens could not legally hold title to land. The buyers sent Charles Williamson from Scotland, and he was naturalized on January 9, 1792, in order to permit him to hold the land in trust for the owners. He relocated to the United States in February 1792 and settled on the tract. Morris conveyed the deed to Williamson on April 11, 1792 and was paid $333,333 (£75,000). The U.S. Congress had passed The Coinage Act which established the U.S. Mint and the dollar as its official currency only a week before. Morris made a profit of over $160,000 on the transaction. Morris kept back some for himself in a tract wide and running the breadth of Western New York from Lake Ontario to the Pennsylvania. This tract was known as the Morris Reserve. At the north end of the Morris Reserve, Morris sold a triangular-shaped tract to Herman Leroy, William Bayard, and John McEvers. This was nicknamed the Triangle Tract. A tract due west of the Triangle Tract was sold to the State of Connecticut.\n\nHis son Thomas settled the peace with the Six Nations of the Iroquois Confederacy, four of whom had sided with the British during the Revolution. Then Morris sold most of the vast tract of property to the Holland Land Company in 1792–1793 for redevelopment in parcels; another source identifies the sale date as being approximately five years later, in 1797–1798.\n\nBesides Land Speculation, Morris founded several canal companies: [Similar to the Potomac Company], two Pennsylvania canal companies were set up to try to link the produce of the western lands with the eastern markets; they were the Schuylkill and Susquehanna Navigation Company chartered September 29, 1791 and the Delaware and Schuylkill Canal Company chartered April 10, 1792, Morris was president of both companies; he was also involved with a steam engine company, and launched a hot air balloon from his garden on Market Street. He had the first iron rolling mill in America. His icehouse was the model for one Washington installed at Mount Vernon. He backed the new Chestnut Street Theater, and had a greenhouse where his staff cultivated lemon trees.\n\nAs part of the effort to repay France for loans that financed the war, Morris contracted to supply 20,000 hogsheads of tobacco annually to France beginning in 1785. Shortly after these contracts were signed, Ambassador Thomas Jefferson took it upon himself to interfere with these arrangements and that brought about the collapse of the tobacco market. This not only harmed Morris, but it forced the French Crown to look elsewhere for tax revenue, and that was the genesis for the French revolution.\nIn 1787, Morris was sued in Virginia by Carter Braxton for £28,257; the lawsuit continued for eight years before commissioners were appointed, then Morris appealed. Finally Virginia's Court of Appeals led by Edmund Pendleton decided mostly in favor of Braxton before Morris was forced into bankruptcy by his own continued land speculations (although Morris as late as 1800 believed he should have won £20,000). By Morris's own admission the beginning of his bankruptcy began with the failure of John Warder & Co. of Dublin and Donald and Burton of London in the spring of 1793. Morris was deeply involved in land speculation, especially after the Revolutionary War;(See Phelps and Gorham Purchase of 1791 above); on April 22, 1794 Morris entered into an association called the Asylum Company with , [who had served as Comptroller-General of the state of Pennsylvania from 1782 to 1794] to purchase 1,000,000 acres of Pennsylvania land besides land they already had title to in Luzerne County; Northumberland County and Northampton County. [This was not the first partnership Morris and Nicholson were involved in; in 1792, Nicholson had negotiated the purchase from the federal government of the tract known as the Erie Triangle. Along with an agent of the Holland Land Company, Aaron Burr, Robert Morris, and other individual and institutional investors, he formed the Pennsylvania Population Company. This front organization purchased all 390 parcels of land in the Erie Triangle. Nicholson was impeached in 1794 for his role in the company.] However, Morris severely overextended himself financially. He had borrowed to speculate in real estate in the new national capital, District of Columbia, but signed a contract with a syndicate of Philadelphia investors to take over his obligations there. After that, he took the options to purchase over in the rural south. Unfortunately for Morris, that syndicate reneged on their commitment, leaving him once again liable, but this time with more exposure. In 1795, Morris and two of his partners, Greenleaf and Nicholson, pooled their land and formed a land company called the North American Land Company. The purpose of this company was to raise money by selling stock secured by the real estate [i.e. to finance their land speculation business]. According to one historian of American land speculation, the NALC was \"largest land trust ever known in America\". The three partners turned over to the company land throughout the United States totaling more than , most of it valued at about 50 cents an acre. In addition to land in the District of Columbia, there were in Georgia, in Kentucky, in North Carolina, in Pennsylvania, in South Carolina, and in Virginia. NALC was authorized to issue 30,000 shares, each worth $100.\n\nTo encourage investors to purchase shares, the three partners guaranteed that a 6 percent dividend would be paid every year. To ensure that there was enough money to pay this divided, each partner agreed to put 3,000 of their own NALC shares in escrow. Greenleaf, Morris, and Nicholson were entitled to receive a 2.5 percent commission on any land the company sold. Greenleaf was named secretary of the new company. One Georgia land deal that Morris was involved in was the Yazoo Land Company\n\nWhen England and the Dutch declared war on Revolutionary France, an expected loan from Holland never materialized. The subsequent Napoleonic Wars ruined the market for American land and Morris's highly leveraged company collapsed. Lastly, the financial markets of England, the United States, and the Caribbean suffered from deflation related with the Panic of 1797. Morris was left \"land rich and cash poor\". He \"owned\" more land than any other American at any time, but didn't have enough liquid capital to pay his creditors. Among his creditors was his son-in-law James Marshall for £20,000 sterling; likewise his brother-in-law Bishop White was also a creditor to Morris for $3,000.\n\nThe NALC encountered financial difficulty almost immediately. Only of land was turned over to the NALC, which meant it could issue only 22,365 shares. This meant only 7,455 shares were put into escrow (instead of the required 9,000). Rather than paying creditors with cash, the NALC paid them with shares (8,477 shares in 1795 and 1796). On May 15, 1795, the D.C. commissioners demanded their first payment from Greenleaf, Morris, and Nicholson, for the 6,000 lots purchased in 1793. But Greenleaf had misappropriated some of the company's income to pay his own debts. Without the Dutch mortgage income and missing funds, there was no money to make the payment to the commissioners. Furthermore, Greenleaf had co-signed for loans taken out by Morris and Nicholson. When these men defaulted, creditors sought out Greenleaf to make good on the debts—which he could not. Moris and his partners had failed to both pay the instalments on the Washington D.C. building lots and finished building twenty houses (they had contracted ten houses annually for seven years on said lots); On July 10, 1795, Morris and Nicholson bought out Greenleaf's interest in the December 24, 1793, agreement. The commissioners began legal proceedings to regain title to the 6,000 lots owned by NALC and the 1,115.25 lots owned by Greenleaf personally. The worsening financial problems of Greenleaf, Morris, and Nicholson led to increasingly poor personal relations among the three men. Nicholson, particularly bitter, began making public accusations against Greenleaf in print. Morris attempted to mediate between the two men, but his efforts failed. In an attempt to resolve his financial problems, Greenleaf sold his shares in the NALC to Nicholson and Morris on May 28, 1796, for $1.5 million. Unfortunately, Morris and Nicholson funded their purchase by giving Greenleaf personal notes. Furthermore, they endorsed one another's notes. Morris and Nicholson, themselves nearly bankrupt, agreed to pay one-quarter of the purchase price every year for the next for years. Greenleaf's shares were not to be transferred to Morris and Nicholson until the fourth payment was received. On September 30, 1796, James Greenleaf put 7,455 of his NALC shares in a trust (known as the \"391 trust\" because it was recorded on page 391 of the firm's accounting book). The \"391 trust\" was created to generate income (from the 6 percent dividend) to pay a loan given to Greenleaf by Edward Fox. A trustee was assigned to hold on to the shares. The same day, Greenleaf put 2,545 shares into another trust (the \"381 trust\"), as a guarantee against nonpayment of the dividend by Morris and Nicholson. Morris and Nicholson's made the first payment to Greenleaf for the one-third interest in the NALC by turning over title to several hundred lots in Washington, D.C. On March 8, 1797, Greenleaf executed the 381 trust. When the NALC did not issue its 6 percent dividend, Greenleaf transferred one-third of the shares in the \"391 trust\" to the trustees. The total number of shares transferred to the \"381 trust\" trustees was now 6,119. On June 24, 1797 Morris, Greenleaf and Nicholson had conveyed their Washington D.C. Lots in trust to Henry Pratt and others in payments of their debts.\n\nThe Washington DC Lots were not the only land problums for Morris; he began losing everything for nonpayment on interest on loans and taxes: In May 1796, John Barker Church accepted a mortgage on another 100,000 acres of the Morris Reserve in present-day Allegany County and Genesee County, against a debt owed to him by Morris. After Morris failed to pay the mortgage, Church foreclosed, and Church's son Philip Schuyler Church acquired the land in May 1800. Philip began the settlement of Allegany and Genesee counties by founding the village of Angelica, New York. In a letter of September 1797 to his partner Nicholson, Morris begged to be able to find $500.00 to pay two years wages to his servant Mr. Richard; in a subsequent letter October 25, 1797 to Nicholson, Morris moaned that 200,000 acres of North Carolina land which had cost him $27,000.00 had been sold for one year's taxes. The bank of Pennsylvania brought suit against him and a judgement made against him for $20,997.40; an execution against his unfinished Chestnut Street \"Morris Folly\" mansion was issued in September 1797 to Philadelphia Sherriff Baker; Sherriff Penrose on December 11, 1797 made deed-poll to William Sansom for the building and the lot sold for $25,600 subject to a £7,000 in specie mortgage payable to Messrs Willink of Amsterdam. The two canal companies had also failed as well: for example after its incorporation the Schuylkill and Susquehanna was subscribed for 40,000 shares—but only 1000 shares were sold; the Delaware and Schuylkill company was to have been 2000 shares at $200.00 a share. Operations were suspended because \"..Either on account of errors in plans adopted, failure to procure the necessary means, financial convulsions, or a combination of all these difficulties, they were compelled to suspend their operations after an outlay of $440,000, which was an immense sum in those days..\".\n\nPoor business practices were now dragging down NALC. For years, Morris and Nicholson had acted as personal guarantors for one another's notes. Now many of these notes were coming due, and neither man could pay them. Creditors began selling the notes publicly, often at heavy discounts. By 1798, Morris and Nicholson's $10 million in personal notes were trading at one-eighth their face value. NALC also discovered that some of titles to the of land it owned were not clear, and thus the land could not be used for security. In other cases, NALC found it had been swindled, and the rich land it thought it owned turned out to be barren and worthless. Morris and Nicholson honestly believed that, if their cash flow problems were fixed, they could make payments on the property they owned and their shares would be returned to them. This proved incorrect. On October 23, 1807, all stock in the company was sold at 7 cents on the dollar to the accountants managing the Aggregate Fund. In 1856, the Trustees of the North American Land Company held $92,071.87. Morris and Nicholson's heirs sued to recover the stock and gain access to the income. The North American Land Company stayed in existence until 1872. An 1880 auditors report called the litigation \"phenomenal ... the counsel for Morris and Nickerson pursued the fund for twenty-five years, seeking to obtain it from the trustees of the North American Company and the trusts which had been created from it, and also defending the money from the State in a attempt to sequestrate it. After all counsel fees and expenses, the amount available for division to the Morris interest was $9,692.49.\" \n\nMorris attempted to avoid creditors by staying outside the city at his country estate \"The Hills\", located on the Schuylkill River, but his creditors literally pursued him to his gate. Morris was sued by a former partner, James Greenleaf, who had been imprisoned for fraud and was serving time in debtors' prison. Unable to dodge his creditors and their lawyers, Morris was finally arrested. He was imprisoned for debt in Prune Street prison in Philadelphia from February 1798 to August 1801. 43 of the 100 acres of his estate \"The Hills\" was purchased in March 1799 by Henry Pratt for $14,654.00 for his country house Lemon Hill after the tearing down of Morris's old mansion; in turn the \"Lemon Hill\" estate became part of the foundation for Fairmount Park Philadelphia; one part of Morris property which had also been purchased in 1799 by William Cannard became part of the Sedgeley mansion-which in turn ironically became part of Fairmont Park. In January 1799 Morris lamented to Nicholson of how a London firm had refused to accept his bill of lading £389 sterling \"..because the money in the hands of the party upon whom the bill was drawn had been attached by the owner of a bond given for payment of some lands in Georgia..\". Of his partners Geenleaf was released after being declared bankrupt in 1798; Nicholson died in prison in 1800.\n\nMorris's economic failure reduced the fortunes of many other prominent Federalists who had invested in his ventures (e.g., Henry Lee). Morris's political adversaries used his bankruptcy to gain political power in Pennsylvania. A Democratic-Republican Governor Thomas McKean was elected and refined the art of political patronage in America. McKean's party picked the Pennsylvania members of the electoral college for the election of 1800, which contributed to votes for Thomas Jefferson as president.\n\nThe US Congress passed its first bankruptcy legislation, the temporary Bankruptcy Act of 1800, in part to get Morris out of prison. At the time of his release, three commissioners found that he had debts of $2,948,711.11; the proceedings were certified October 15, 1801 after 2/3 of his creditors agreed to the discharge of Morris; on December 4, 1801 a certificate of bankruptcy was confirmed. In January 1830, Morris's son Henry petitioned the district Court of Philadelphia that the commission should be vacated and superseded as nothing had been done by either the assignees or the creditors; the petition was granted.\n\nAfter his release, Morris continued to suffer poor health and spent the rest of his life in retirement. He was assisted by his wife who had supported him throughout his misfortune. Their only source of income was a $1,500.00 annuity for Mrs. Morris which had been set up for her from the Holland Land Company by Gouverneur Morris. Ironically one of the few assets Morris had left to him was his father's old worn out watch which he had inherited at the start of his career; Morris managed to leave this timepiece to his son Robert Jr. Morris died on May 8, 1806 in Philadelphia. He is buried in the family vault of Bishop William White, his brother-in-law, at Christ Church. A plaque installed later reads: \"ROBERT MORRIS signer of the Constitution of the United States of America. Deputy from Pennsylvania to Federal Constitutional Convention May 25, 1787 – September 17, 1787 Erected by the Pennsylvania Constitution Commemorative Committee\".\n\n\nInstitutions named in honor of Morris include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53515787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53515787", "title": "Robin Cavendish", "text": "Robin Cavendish\n\nRobin Francis Cavendish, MBE (12 March 1930 – 8 August 1994), was a British advocate for disabled people, medical aid developer, and one of the longest-lived \"responauts\" in Britain. Born in Middleton, Derbyshire, Cavendish was affected by polio at the age of 28. Despite being initially given only three months to live, Cavendish, paralysed from the neck down and able to breathe only with the use of a mechanical ventilator, became a tireless advocate for disabled people, instrumental in organising the first records of the number of responauts in Britain and helping to develop numerous devices to provide independence to paralysed people.\n\nRobin Francis Cavendish was born 12 March 1930 in Middleton, Derbyshire, England. He attended Winchester College. He attended Royal Military Academy Sandhurst and was commissioned into the 60th Rifles, of the King’s Royal Rifle Corps, spending seven years in the Army, eventually attaining the rank of Captain. He left the Army to join Thompson Smithett in starting up a tea-broking business in Africa. In 1957, he married Diana Blacker and returned to Kenya. They had one son, Jonathan Cavendish.\n\nIn December 1958, while in Kenya, Cavendish became ill with polio. Because he was paralyzed from the neck down, a Nairobi doctor put him on a mechanical respirator that Cavendish needed to breathe, making him a \"responaut\". Cavendish flew back to England. He was initially given only three months, and then one year, to live. According to Jonathan Cavendish, his father's first thought after being struck down by polio was to \"turn off the machine\", reasoning that Diana was only 25, and telling her, \"You can start again.\" But, as Jonathan states, \"she wasn't having any of it.\" Against the advice of his doctors, he left the hospital after a year.\n\nFor the remainder of his life, Cavendish and his wife worked not only to improve the quality of his life, but the lives of other paralysed people, travelling the world to inspire others as campaigners for disabled people. Cavendish would often serve as the expert who explained his condition to consultants and nurses. In the 1960s he tracked down and listed the circumstances of all the responauts in Britain, compiling the first record of how many people were confined to iron lungs.\n\nIn 1962, Cavendish and his friend Teddy Hall, the Oxford University professor, developed a wheelchair with a built-in respirator that freed Cavendish from confinement to his bed, which became the model for future devices of its type, with Cavendish eventually using a total of 10 different chairs. Determined that mobility should be available to other polio survivors, Cavendish raised money from the Ernest Kleinwort Charitable Trust for the first dozen chairs, and eventually persuaded the then British Department of Health to fund a series of chairs, which were manufactured by Teddy Hall's company, Littlemore Scientific Engineering. After testing them on himself, Cavendish helped to market pieces of equipment that improve the quality of life of disabled people. Most notable among these was the Possum, which Cavendish developed with scientists at Stoke Mandeville Hospital, and which allowed users to use the telephone, turn on a television or adjust a home's central heating with only a left-or-right movement of their head. Others included a lightweight ventilator that ran on batteries, and a modified aircraft seat fitted with electronic aids. Littlemore received government funding to make another forty chair-and-ventilator sets.\n\nMoved by the plight of families who could never go on holiday together, Cavendish and others, in particular polio specialist Dr. G.T. Spencer, the consultant in charge of the Lane-Fox Unit at St Thomas's Hospital in London, co-founded the charity Refresh in 1970 to raise the money toward the construction of Netley Waterside House, a holiday complex overlooking Southampton Water on the South Coast whose facilities provided for the care of severely disabled responauts as they and their families enjoyed the attractive surroundings. The facility opened in 1977.\n\nCavendish was made an MBE in 1974.\n\nCavendish was an atheist. Among his pastimes was reading newspapers. Cavendish and Diana refused to accept Cavendish's condition as a major restriction, travelling widely until a short time before his death. They often drove from Oxford to London in their specially adapted van, returning home late at night. They also travelled abroad to visit places such as the battlefields of northern France, and they enjoyed receiving visiting friends in their home. According to Alice and Tim Renton of \"The Independent\", \"Young people found him an irresistible ear to pour confidences into and his stimulating and down-to-earth attitude to problems helped many. His contemporaries would drive across country to ask his advice and enjoy his company. It was as if his sedentary life gave him a broader viewpoint and a sharper vision than the rest of us, and his capacity for laughing at, as well as with, his friends was healthily deflating.\"\n\nCavendish was described by the Rentons as \"naturally unsentimental\" whose love for Diana, Jonathan and daughter-in-law, Leslie Ann Rogers was both \"well-concealed and totally evident\". According to the Rentons, Cavendish \"questioned mercilessly and passed on gossip as happily as he received it, but somehow the malice disappeared as it went through him. He had a natural graciousness: his lack of evident resentment at his own condition made helping him a positive pleasure.\"\n\nCavendish died on 8 August 1994 at Drayton St Leonard, Oxfordshire, England at the age of 64, becoming a medical phenomenon as one of the longest-living polio survivors in Great Britain. In their obituary of him, the Rentons stated, \"To know Robin Cavendish was to know the personification of courage. Many people achieve moments of great courage, few are called on to show it continuously for 36 years.\"\n\nOn 27 November 1995, the Robin Cavendish Memorial Fund was created, with Diana, Jonathan and Leslie Cavendish among its trustees. Its purpose was to provide grants to individuals and organisations for the purpose of advancing the health and saving the lives of people with disabilities. In 2014, it was merged with the charity that Robin and Diana Cavendish had previously founded, Refresh, into the Cavendish Spencer Trust, which provides holiday and respite breaks for people with severe disability due to neurological or neuromuscular disorders. The Trust is named for Cavendish and his close friend Geoffrey Spencer, who aided Cavendish in his advocacy for disabled people.\n\nIn November 2017 Cavendish and Diana were awarded the Patient Innovation Lifetime Achievement Award for their work in developing innovations and advocating for people with disabilities. The award was announced by Nobel Laureate Sir Richard J. Roberts, a member of the Advisory Board of Patient Innovation and of the Jury of the Awards, addressed the audience in the Awards Ceremony at the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation in Lisbon. \n\nCavendish's son, Jonathan Cavendish, a film producer who runs the production company The Imaginarium Studios with actor/director Andy Serkis, commissioned writer William Nicholson to write a screenplay on his father's life and work. The film, \"Breathe\", is directed by Serkis, and opened in October 2017. In the film, Cavendish is portrayed by Andrew Garfield.\n\n"}
{"id": "50608235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50608235", "title": "Stephen Jackley", "text": "Stephen Jackley\n\nStephen Jackley is a convicted British robber and author. He served time in American and British prisons from 2008 to 2015. He has Asperger's Syndrome, and his book, \"Just Sky\", explores the impact of this condition on his life. Jackley has been followed by the press, both in the United States and the United Kingdom, due to the unusual nature of his crimes.\n\nJackley was born in Exeter, Devon.\n\nIn 2008, Jackley was arrested in the United States, after getting caught in Vermont using a fake ID to buy a firearm. A year later, he was returned to the United Kingdom where he was convicted of a series of armed robbery related offences on banks, building societies and bookmakers. Jackley's offences stood out due to his use of \"calling cards\" and statements that he believed himself a \"modern day Robin Hood\", who allegedly gave some of his loot to charities and homeless people. What made his offences more unusual was that he was then a student at Worcester University, studying sociology and geography.\nHe went on to appeal his sentence, which the Court of Appeal reduced from 13 to 12 years on the basis of his condition, Asperger's Syndrome, making prison life harder than for other offenders. Whilst in custody he took up a string of court cases, involving prisoners access to IT equipment for legal representation, and a 'home detention curfew' policy.\n\nJackley was released in May 2015. It has been reported that he is a trustee and national coordinator of the UK prison-reform organisation, Justice in Prisons. He is actively involved in penal issues and prisoner rehabilitation. He also started a consultancy social enterprise called StarUp CIC in 2016, of which he is named as a director.\n\nJackley has published books including \"Just Sky\" (an autobiography) and \"Good Intentions\" (a crime thriller), and anthologies of short stories/essays. In early 2015, he helped found the publishing enterprise, Arkbound Ltd, where he is managing editor of the Bristol magazine \"Boundless\".\n\n"}
{"id": "75849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=75849", "title": "The Five (composers)", "text": "The Five (composers)\n\nThe Five, also known as the Mighty Handful and the New Russian School, were five prominent 19th-century Russian composers who worked together to create distinct Russian classical music. Mily Balakirev (the leader), César Cui, Modest Mussorgsky, Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov and Alexander Borodin all lived in Saint Petersburg, and collaborated from 1856 to 1870.\n\nIn May 1867 the critic Vladimir Stasov wrote an article, titled \"Mr. Balakirev's Slavic Concert\", covering a concert that had been performed for visiting Slav delegations at the \"All-Russian Ethnographical Exhibition\" in Moscow. The four Russian composers whose works were played at the concert were Mikhail Glinka, Alexander Dargomyzhsky, Mily Balakirev, and Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov. The article ended with the following statement:\n\nThe expression \"mighty handful\" (, \"Moguchaya kuchka\", \"Mighty Bunch\") was mocked by enemies of Balakirev and Stasov: Aleksandr Serov, academic circles of the conservatory, the Russian Musical Society, and their press supporters. The group ignored critics and continued operating under the moniker. This loose collection of composers gathered around Balakirev now included Cui, Mussorgsky, Rimsky-Korsakov, and Borodin — the five who have come to be associated with the name \"Mighty Handful\", or sometimes \"The Five\". Gerald Abraham stated flatly in the \"Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians\" that \"they never called themselves, nor were they ever called in Russia, 'The Five'\" (although today the Russian equivalent \"Пятёрка\" (\"Pyatyorka\") is occasionally used to refer to this group). In his memoirs, Rimsky-Korsakov routinely refers to the group as \"Balakirev's circle\", and occasionally uses \"The Mighty Handful\", usually with an ironic tone. He also makes the following reference to \"The Five\":\n\nThe Russian word \"kuchka\" also spawned the terms \"kuchkism\" and \"kuchkist\", which may be applied to artistic aims or works in tune with the sensibilities of the Mighty Handful.\n\nThe name of Les Six, an even looser collection of French-speaking composers, emulates that of \"The Five\".\n\nThe formation of the group began in 1856, with the first meeting of Balakirev and César Cui. Modest Mussorgsky joined them in 1857, Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov in 1861, and Alexander Borodin in 1862. All the composers in The Five were young men in 1862. Balakirev was 25, Cui 27, Mussorgsky 23, Borodin the eldest at 28, and Rimsky-Korsakov just 18. They were all self-trained amateurs. Borodin combined composing with a career in chemistry. Rimsky-Korsakov was a naval officer (he wrote his First Symphony on a three-year naval voyage circumnavigating the globe). Mussorgsky had been in the prestigious Preobrazhensky Regiment of the Imperial Guard, and then in the civil service before taking up music; even at the height of his career in the 1870s he was forced by the expense of his drinking habit to hold down a full-time job in the State Forestry Department.\n\nIn contrast to the élite status and court connections of Conservatory composers such as Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky, The Five were mainly from the minor gentry of the provinces. To some degree their \"esprit de corps\" depended on the myth, which they themselves created, of a movement that was more \"authentically Russian,\" in the sense that it was closer to the native soil, than the classic academy.\n\nBefore them, Mikhail Glinka and Alexander Dargomyzhsky had gone some way towards producing a distinctly Russian kind of music, writing operas on Russian subjects, but the Mighty Handful represented the first concentrated attempt to develop such a music, with Stasov as their artistic adviser and Dargomyzhsky as an elder statesman to the group, so to speak. The circle began to fall apart during the 1870s, no doubt partially due to the fact that Balakirev withdrew from musical life early in the decade for a period of time. All of \"The Five\" are buried in Tikhvin Cemetery in Saint Petersburg.\n\nThe musical language The Five developed set them far apart from the Conservatoire. This self-conscious Russian styling was based on two elements:\n\n\nOne hallmark of \"The Five\" was its reliance on orientalism. Many quintessentially \"Russian\" works were composed in orientalist style, such as Balakirev's \"Islamey\", Borodin's \"Prince Igor\" and Rimsky-Korsakov's \"Scheherazade\". Orientalism, in fact, became widely considered in the West both one of the best-known aspects of Russian music and a trait of Russian national character. As leader of \"The Five,\" Balakirev encouraged the use of eastern themes and harmonies to set their \"Russian\" music apart from the German symphonism of Anton Rubinstein and other Western-oriented composers. Because Rimsky-Korsakov used Russian folk and oriental melodies in his First Symphony, Stasov and the other nationalists dubbed it the \"First Russian Symphony,\" even though Rubinstein had written his \"Ocean\" Symphony a dozen years before it. These were themes Balakirev had transcribed in the Caucasus. \"The symphony is good,\" Cui wrote to Rimsky-Korsakov in 1863, while the latter was out on naval deployment. \"We played it a few days ago at Balakirev's—to the great pleasure of Stassov. It is really Russian. Only a Russian could have composed it, because it lacks the slightest trace of any stagnant Germanness.\"\n\nOrientalism was not confined to using authentic Eastern melodies. What became more important than the melodies themselves were the musical conventions added to them. These conventions allowed orientalism to become an avenue for writing music on subjects considered unmentionable otherwise, such as political themes and erotic fantasies. It also became a means of expressing Russian supremacy as the empire expanded under Alexander II. This was often reinforced through misogynist symbolism—the rational, active and moral Western man versus the irrational, passive and immoral Eastern woman.\n\nTwo major works entirely dominated by orientalism are Rimsky-Korsakov's symphonic suite \"Antar\" and Balakirev's symphonic poem \"Tamara\". \"Antar\", set in Arabia, uses two different styles of music, Western (Russian) and Eastern (Arabian). The first theme, Antar's, is masculine and Russian in character. The second theme, feminine and oriental in melodic contour, belongs to the queen, Gul Nazar. Rimsky-Korsakov was able to soften the implicit misogyny to some extent. However, female sensuality does exert a paralyzing, ultimately destructive influence. With Gul Nazar extinguishing Antar's life in a final embrace, the woman overcomes the man.\n\nBalakirev gives a more overtly misogynistic view of oriental women in \"Tamara\". He had originally planned to write a Caucasan dance called a \"lezginka\", modeled on Glinka, for this work. However, he discovered a poem by Mikhail Lermontov about the beautiful Tamara, who lived in a tower alongside the gorge of Daryal. She lured travelers and allowed them to enjoy a night of sensual delights, only to kill them and throw their bodies into the River Terek. Balakirev uses two specific codes endemic to orientalism in writing \"Tamara\". The first code, based on obsessive rhythms, note repetitions, climactic effects and accelerated tempi, represents Dionysian intoxication. The second code, consisting of unpredictable rhythms, irregular phrasing and based on long passages with many repeat notes, augmented and diminished intervals and extended melismas, depict sensual longing. Not only did Balakirev use these codes extensively, but he also attempted to supercharge them further when he revised the orchestration of \"Tamara\" in 1898.\n\nA direct result of such orientalism was the big influence that this circle left on the formation of classical traditions in other nations of the east and south of Russia. For instance, one of Rimsky-Korsakov's famous students, Alexander Spendiaryan went on to become the founder of Armenian classical music, carrying on the traditions and aesthetics of the Mighty Handful to the Caucasus.\n\nRimsky-Korsakov provides the following picture of \"The Mighty Handful\" in his memoirs, \"Chronicle of My Musical Life\" (translated by J. A. Joffe):\n\nExcept perhaps for Cui, the members of this group influenced or taught many of the great Russian composers who were to follow, including Alexander Glazunov, Mikhail Ippolitov-Ivanov, Sergei Prokofiev, Igor Stravinsky, and Dmitri Shostakovich. They also influenced the two French symbolist composers Maurice Ravel and Claude Debussy through their radical tonal language.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54203150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54203150", "title": "Thomas Walther (lawyer)", "text": "Thomas Walther (lawyer)\n\nJustice Thomas Walther (born 1943) is a lawyer based in Kempten, in the province of Bavaria in Germany. He is a former judge and German federal prosecutor for the Central Office of the State Justice Administrations for the Investigation of National Socialist Crimes. He is known as the \"last of the Nazi hunters\" for his work in setting legal precedent in seeking punishment for former SS officers and guards who were involved in the Holocaust, whether directly responsible for deaths or not.\n\nHis father Rudolph saved two Jewish families during the Kristallnacht anti-Jewish riots of 1938. \"My father had quite a lot of Jewish friends in the '30s and he had hidden two families in our big garden during the Night of Broken Glass and they stayed there for some weeks until they had organized their escape to Australia and Paraguay.\"\n\nAfter 23 years, he retired as a judge in 2006, joining the Central Office for the Investigation of Nazi Crimes, setting out to change the precedent on prosecuting Nazi guards. After the war, it is estimated that between 7,000 to 8,000 SS guards served at Auschwitz. Before Walther became a Nazi hunter, only 48 were convicted.\nIn 2011, after standing trial for two years, German courts decided to convict John Demjanjuk without any direct evidence of murder –simply by being a guard who watched thousands march to their death made him complicit in the murder of 27,900 Dutch Jews at Sobibor. Demjanjuk, 91, was found guilty in May 2011 of helping to murder more than 28,000 Jews at Sobibor and sentenced to five years in prison. He was released pending an appeal and was moved to a nursing home.\nThe two major contributions Walther helped bring into law were that a Nazi did not have to be directly involved to be guilty of aiding and abetting a murder during the Holocaust; and a Holocaust survivor who testifies in a German court does not have to directly identify the defendant.\nWalther took this opportunity to help find any remaining German citizens who were former Nazi SS guards. Given that his hunt for Nazis started almost 70 years after the Holocaust ended, many had passed away. He eventually located four former Nazi guards: Oskar Gröning, Reinhold Hanning, Hubert Zafke and Ernst Tremmel.\nIn April, Tremmel died just days before he was to go to trial at the age of 93, and Zafke's trial has been postponed indefinitely – he's been deemed unfit to stand trial due to his ill health. On June 15, 2015, Gröning, known as the \"Bookkeeper of Auschwitz,\" became the 50th Nazi guard to be convicted since the war ended.\nThe New York Times wrote, \"Thomas Walther, a German lawyer who was the driving force behind the trial of Mr. Demjanjuk, represented Holocaust survivors as co-plaintiffs in the trials of Mr. Hanning and Mr. Gröning. He expressed frustration that Mr. Hanning never responded to his clients' pleas to recount his experience at Auschwitz so that present and future generations would know of it. But in a telephone interview on Thursday, Mr. Walther said that the clients he had contacted on hearing of Mr. Hanning's death insisted that the most important thing was that Mr. Hanning was brought to justice and that his deeds were recounted in court.\"\nJune 17, 2016 Hanning was convicted for the crimes he committed at Auschwitz, and Walther helped bring the 51st Nazi guard to justice following the war. Hanning's trial has been dubbed by many as the \"Last of the Nazi trials.\"\n\nGröning worked as an accountant at Auschwitz in Nazi-occupied Poland, sorting and counting the money taken from those killed or used as slave labour, and sending it back to his Nazi superiors in Berlin.\nThe court in the northern city of Lüneburg acknowledged that he had only been a \"cog in the wheel\" at the camp but that it had taken thousands of such people to keep running \"a machinery designed entirely for the killing\" of human beings.\nPresiding judge Franz Kompisch called it \"scandalous\" that it had taken so long for the German justice system to prosecute such cases.\n\nRafi Yablonsky of Jewish National Fund Toronto said: \"When we write these final chapters on the Holocaust, Thomas Walther, the last of the Nazi hunters, should not just be included – he should be recognized as a post-Holocaust member of the \"Righteous Among the Nations.\"\n\nAt the 2017 March of the Living ceremony, Walther said, \"Shalom. I have worked for quite a long time to change the law practice in Germany [regarding] accessory to murder in places just like Auschwitz… I did it for the survivors, I did it for the victims and I did it for the children of the victims. And I did it as well for the future… And the future is with me here, the young generation….They are my hope - they are also my future and your future, and your hope. To life!\"\n"}
{"id": "19332809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19332809", "title": "Tom and Mary Bierbaum", "text": "Tom and Mary Bierbaum\n\nTom and Mary Bierbaum are an American husband-and-wife writing team, known for their work on the DC comic book \"Legion of Super-Heroes\".\n\nThe Bierbaums entered the world of professional comic book writing through Legion fandom. Tom Bierbaum grew up as a Legion fan, first becoming exposed to the characters via \"Adventure Comics\" #310 (July 1963). Meanwhile, Mary Gilmore became a serious Legion fan in the late 1970s.\n\nTom joined the Legion fan club The Legion Outpost, and then the Legion amateur press association Interlac, where he met fellow member Gilmore, who had joined the APA around the same time. Through Interlac, the two struck up a relationship. Gilmore lived in California, and as Bierbaum had designs on getting into the entertainment industry, he moved out West, and the two began living together, eventually getting married. \n\nEarly on in their relationship, the Bierbaums wrote stories together, their first published piece being a Halloween-themed short story for a local newspaper. (The story was actually a thinly veiled Legion of Super-Heroes story with the characters' names and situations changed.) They also submitted and published articles and stories in Interlac, which attracted the attention of veteran \"Legion\" artist Keith Giffen and future \"Legion\" editor Mark Waid (both of whom were also Interlac members).\n\nRecognizing the Bierbaum's devotion to the Legion, Giffen contacted them, at first using them as a sounding board for his ideas about the Legion. Giffen also utilized a new costume idea for Element Lad that Tom suggested.\n\nIn 1984, when Giffen was looking for a scripter for his \"Lightning\" stories in Deluxe Comics' \"Wally Wood's T.H.U.N.D.E.R. Agents\", he recruited the husband and wife writing team for the job. That, along with their work for DC's \"New Talent Showcase\" editor Sal Amendola, convinced the editors at DC (specifically Dick Giordano) that they were ready to become \"Legion\" scripters.\n\nThe Bierbaums wrote the first fifty issues of \"Legion of Super-Heroes\" vol. 4, from 1989–1993. Working under editor Waid and alongside Giffen and Al Gordon (who was a co-writer and inker on the book) for the first 36 issues, the Bierbaums dialogued the \"Five Years Later\" storyline. The revival of the title was controversial with many longtime Legion fans, as it incorporated several major \"retcons,\" including the editorially-mandated excision of Superboy from Legion history; the housing of Proty's consciousness in Lightning Lad's body; and the revelation that former Science Police liaison Shvaughn Erin was actually a formerly male transsexual who used drugs to maintain her female identity, while her longtime beau Element Lad was of ambiguous sexuality and would not have required her to be female. \n\nAfter Giffen's departure, the Bierbaums continued on the title for another year, overseeing the return of several classic characters, until leaving for \"Legionnaires\" (a spin-off title) after \"Legion\" issue #50 (November 1993). They wrote \"Legionnaires\" for its first 15 issues, until 1994.\n\nThe Bierbaums and Giffen also worked together on DC's short-lived offbeat title \"The Heckler\" in 1992–1993.\n\nAfter their DC work, the Bierbaums went on to write various titles for Image Comics, including \"Supreme\", \"SuperPatriot\", \"Youngblood: Strikefile\", and \"Star\", as well as \"\" and \"Jurassic Park\" for Topps Comics. Most recently, they worked on \"Wonderlanders\" for Oktomica and \"StormQuest\" for Caliber Comics.\n\nNever full-time comics writers, the couple live in Erie, Pennsylvania, with their two children. Mary retired from being a nurse in 1991; Tom used to freelance for \"Variety\" before becoming a staffer at the short-lived entertainment/business website Inside.com. In 2001, he began work at NBC as a ratings analyst.\n\nAs writing partners, the Bierbaums evolved a unique collaborating style. Generally, they work together in the conceptual stage, and then Tom writes the first draft. Mary works closely with Tom on the plotting, while Tom mainly writes the dialogue, with Mary acting as a sounding board for overall \"feel and direction.\n\n"}
{"id": "22089515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22089515", "title": "Txillardegi", "text": "Txillardegi\n\nJosé Luis Álvarez Enparantza (27 September 1929 – 14 January 2012), better known by his pseudonym Txillardegi, was a Basque linguist, politician and writer from Spain. Born in San Sebastián (Basque Country, Spain), he did not learn the Basque language until the age of 17, but came to be considered one of the most influential figures in Basque nationalism and culture in the second half of the 20th century.\n\nÁlvarez Enparantza (the maternal surname was sometimes hispanicised as Emparanza) studied engineering in Bilbao, and linguistics in Paris. In 1957, he became a corresponding member of the Euskaltzaindia (\"Academia de la Lengua Vasca\", Academy of the Basque Language), which adopted most of his proposals on the orthography and morphology of Standard Basque. In 1993 he became a member of its Commission on Pronunciation. His name was put forward twice to become a full member of the Euskaltzaindia but he was turned down for political reasons. When he was going to be proposed for a third time, he himself turned down the proposal.\n\nHe was a major contributor to the standardisation of Basque. His philosophy was based on the following points: \n\nHe was also a well-known writer and linguist under the pseudonyms \"Larresoro\", \"Igara\" and \"Usako\". He was a writer influenced by existentialism of Kierkegaard, Unamuno and Sartre, and also by the writer Bertrand Russell. He has had many books published, mostly to do with the Basque language and its grammar. He has also written novels and political essays. His work \"Leturiaren egunkari ezkutua\" (1957) is considered the first modern novel written in Basque and makes a clear dividing line in Basque literature. Other work included the novels \"Haizeaz bestaldetik\" (1979) and \"Putzu\" (1999); the influential essays \"Huntaz eta hartaz\" (1965), \"Hizkuntza eta pentsakera\" (1972) and \"Euskal Herria helburu\" (1994), and the academic works \"Euskal fonologia\" (1980), \"Euskal azentuaz\" (1984) and \"Elebidun gizartearen azterketa matematikoa\" (1984).\n\nIn 1968 he won the Txomin Agirre award for his novel \"Elsa Scheelen\". He also won the Andima award in Caracas in 1969 for books on teaching mathematics. He won the \"Silver Lauburu\" for his book \"Euskal Gramatika\" in Bilbo in 1980.\n\nIn the 1970s Txillardegi co-founded the \"Euskal Herrian Euskaraz\" Basque language movement. In 1982 he began lecturing in the University of the Basque Country, of which he later became a professor emeritus.\n\nThe database of the Basque scientific-intellectual community shows references to 122 products (paper, books, talks etc.) created by Txillardegi.\n\nA member of the Basque Nationalist Party (PNV) in his youth, he promoted the defence and study of the Basque language as the basis of Basque identity.\n\nAfter becoming disillusioned with the PNV, Txillardegi was one of the founders of ETA in 1959, together with a group of young nationalists and was the visible leader of the cultural branch of the movement. In 1961 he fled into exile, in Paris and Brussels, returning in 1967. In 1976 he and Iñaki Aldekoa formed a political party, the \"Euskal Sozialista Biltzarrea\" (ESB: \"Congreso de Socialistas Vascos\", Basque Socialist Congress).\n\nTxillardegi participated in the foundation in 1977 of Herri Batasuna and was elected senator for the abertzale coalition in the first elections.\n\nComing to believe that the armed struggle was unviable, for a time he was active in Aralar. In the general elections of 2008, he announced his Senate candidacy for the Eusko Abertzale Ekintza party (\"Acción Nacionalista Vasca\", Basque Nationalist Action) for the precinct of Guipúzcoa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1478979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1478979", "title": "William Stoughton (judge)", "text": "William Stoughton (judge)\n\nWilliam Stoughton (1631 – July 7, 1701) was a colonial magistrate and administrator in the Province of Massachusetts Bay. He was in charge of what have come to be known as the Salem Witch Trials, first as the Chief Justice of the Special Court of Oyer and Terminer in 1692, and then as the Chief Justice of the Superior Court of Judicature in 1693. In these trials he controversially accepted spectral evidence (based on supposed demonic visions). Unlike some of the other magistrates, he never admitted to the possibility that his acceptance of such evidence was in error.\n\nAfter graduating from Harvard College in 1650, he continued religious studies in England, where he also preached. Returning to Massachusetts in 1662, he chose to enter politics instead of the ministry. An adept politician, he served in virtually every government through the period of turmoil in Massachusetts that encompassed the revocation of its first charter in 1684 and the introduction of its second charter in 1692, including the unpopular rule of Sir Edmund Andros in the late 1680s. He served as lieutenant governor of the province from 1692 until his death in 1701, acting as governor (in the absence of an appointed governor) for about six years. He was one of the province's major landowners, partnering with Joseph Dudley and other powerful figures in land purchases, and it was for him that the town of Stoughton, Massachusetts was named.\n\nWilliam Stoughton was born in 1631 to Israel Stoughton and Elizabeth Knight Stoughton. The exact location of his birth is uncertain, because there is no known birth or baptismal record for him, and the date when his parents migrated from England to the Massachusetts Bay Colony is not known with precision. What is known is that by 1632 the Stoughtons were in the colony, where they were early settlers of Dorchester, Massachusetts.\n\nStoughton graduated from Harvard College in 1650 with a degree in theology. He intended to become a Puritan minister and traveled to England, where he continued his studies in New College, Oxford. He graduated with an M.A. in theology in 1653. Stoughton was a pious preacher who believed in the \"Lord's promise and expectations of great things.\" England was at the time under Puritan Commonwealth Rule, although 1653 was the year Oliver Cromwell dissolved Parliament, beginning The Protectorate. Stoughton preached in Sussex, and after Charles II was restored to the throne in 1660, Stoughton lost his position in the crackdown on religious dissenters that followed.\n\nWith little prospect for another position in England, Stoughton returned to Massachusetts in 1662. He preached on several occasions at Dorchester and Cambridge, but refused offers of permanent ministerial posts. He instead became involved in politics and land development. He served on the colony's council of assistants (a precursor to the idea of a governor's council) almost every year from 1671 to 1686, and represented the colony in the New England Confederation from 1673 to 1677 and 1680 to 1686. In the 1684 election, Joseph Dudley, who had been labelled as an enemy of the colony (along with Stoughton, Bulkley, and others) for his moderate position on colonial charter issues, failed to win reelection to the council. Stoughton, who was reelected by a small majority and was a friend and business partner of Dudley, refused to serve in protest.\nIn 1676 he was chosen, along with Peter Bulkley, to be an agent representing colonial interests in England. Their instructions were narrowly tailored. They were authorized to acquire land claims from the heirs of Sir Ferdinando Gorges and John Mason that conflicted with some Massachusetts land claims in present-day Maine. These they acquired for £1,200, incurring the anger of Charles II, who had intended to acquire those claims for the Duke of York. They were unsuccessful in maintaining broader claims made by Massachusetts against other territories of Maine and the Province of New Hampshire. Their limited authority upset the Lords of Trade, who sought to have the colonial laws modified to conform to their policies. The mission of Stoughton and Bulkley did little more than antagonize colonial officials in London because of their hardline stance.\n\nFor many years Stoughton and Joseph Dudley were friends, as well as political and business partners. The two worked closely together politically, and engaged in land development together. In the 1680s Stoughton acquired significant amounts of land from the Nipmuc tribe in what is now Worcester County in partnership with Dudley. The partnership included a venture that established Oxford as a place to settle refugee Huguenots.\n\nDudley and Stoughton used their political positions to ensure that the titles to lands they were interested in were judicially cleared, a practice that also benefited their friends, relatives, and other business partners. Concerning this practice, Crown agent Edward Randolph wrote that it was \"impossible to bring titles of land to trial before them where his Majesties's rights are concerned, the Judges also being parties.\" This was particularly obvious when Stoughton and Dudley were part of a venture to acquire of land in the Merrimack River valley. Dudley's council, on which Stoughton and other investors sat, formally cleared that land's title in May 1686.\n\nWhen Dudley was commissioned in 1686 to temporarily head the Dominion of New England, Stoughton was appointed to his council, and he was then elected by the council as the deputy president. During the administration of Sir Edmund Andros he served as a magistrate and on the council. As a magistrate he was particularly harsh on the town leaders of Ipswich, who had organized tax protests against the dominion government, based on the claim that dominion rule without representation violated the Rights of Englishmen. When Andros was arrested in April 1689 in a bloodless uprising inspired by the 1688 Glorious Revolution in England, Stoughton was one of the signatories to the declaration of the revolt's ringleaders. Despite this statement of support for the popular cause, he was sufficiently unpopular due to his association with Andros that he was denied elective offices. He appealed to the politically powerful Mather family, with whom he still had positive relations. In 1692, when Increase Mather and Sir William Phips arrived from England carrying the charter for the new Province of Massachusetts Bay and a royal commission for Phips as governor, they also brought one for Stoughton as lieutenant governor.\n\nWhen Phips arrived, rumors of witchcraft were running rampant, especially in Salem. Phips immediately appointed Stoughton to head a special tribunal to deal with accusations of witchcraft, and in June appointed him chief justice of the colonial courts, a post he would hold for the rest of his life.\n\nIn the now-notorious Salem Witch Trials, Stoughton acted as both chief judge and prosecutor. He was particularly harsh on some of the defendants, sending the jury deliberating in the case of Rebecca Nurse back to reconsider its not guilty verdict; after doing so, she was convicted. Many convictions were made because Stoughton permitted the use of spectral evidence, the idea that a demonic vision could only take on the shape or appearance of someone who had made some sort of devilish pact or engaged in witchcraft. Although Cotton Mather argued that this type of evidence was acceptable when making accusations, some judges expressed reservations about its use in judicial proceedings. Stoughton, however, was convinced of its acceptability, and may have influenced other judges to this view. The special court stopped sitting in September 1692.\n\nIn November and December 1692 Governor Phips oversaw a reorganization of the colony's courts to bring them into conformance with English practice. The new courts, with Stoughton still sitting as chief justice, began to handle the witchcraft cases in 1693, but were under specific instructions from Phips to disregard spectral evidence. As a result, a significant number of cases were dismissed due to a lack of evidence, and Phips vacated the few convictions that were made. On 3 January 1693 Stoughton ordered the execution of all suspected witches who had been exempted by their pregnancy. Phips denied enforcement of the order. This turn of events angered Stoughton, and he briefly left the bench in protest.\n\nHistorian Cedric Cowing suggests that Stoughton's acceptance of spectral evidence was based partly in a need he saw to reassert Puritan authority in the province. Unlike his colleague Samuel Sewall, who later expressed regret for his actions on the bench in the trials, Stoughton never admitted that his actions and beliefs with respect to spectral evidence and the trials were in error.\n\nStoughton was also involved in overseeing the colonial response to King William's War, which had broken out in 1689. Massachusetts Bay (which included the area now known as Maine) was in the forefront of the war with New France, and its northern frontier communities suffered significantly from French and Indian raids. Governor Phips was frequently in Maine overseeing the construction of defenses there, leaving Stoughton to oversee affairs in Boston. During one such absence, for example, Stoughton was responsible for raising a small force of militia intended to help protect neighboring New Hampshire, which was similarly being devastated by raids. In early 1694 Phips was recalled to London, to answer charges of misconduct. He delayed his departure until November, at which time Stoughton took over as acting governor. Phips died in London in early 1695, before the charges against him were heard.\nStoughton viewed himself as a caretaker, holding the government until the crown appointed a new governor. As a consequence, he gave the provincial assembly a significant degree of autonomy, which, once established, complicated the relationship the assembly had with later governors. He also took relatively few active steps to implement colonial policies, and only did the minimum needed to follow instructions from London. A commentator in the colonial office observed that he was a \"good scholar\", but that he was \"not suited to enforce the Navigation Act\".\n\nIn 1695 Stoughton protested the actions of French privateers operating from Acadia, who were wreaking havoc in the New England fishing and merchant fleets. In an attempt to counter this activity, he authorized Benjamin Church to organize a raid against Acadia. While Church was recruiting men for the expedition, New France's governor, the comte de Frontenac, organized an expedition to target the English fort at Pemaquid, Maine. Church had still not departed in August 1696 when he learned that the fort had been taken and destroyed. The instructions Stoughton issued to Church were somewhat vague, and he did little more than raid Beaubassin at the top of the Bay of Fundy before returning to Boston. Before Church's return Stoughton organized a second, smaller expedition that unsuccessfully besieged Fort Nashwaak on the Saint John River. The failure of these expeditions highlighted the inadequacies of the provincial forces, and the Massachusetts assembly appealed to London for aid.\n\nPeace between France and England was achieved with the Treaty of Ryswick in 1697, but it did not resolve any issues concerning the Abenakis to the north. As a result, there continued to be tension on the frontier, and disputes over fishing grounds and the use of Acadian territory by New Englanders for drying fish continued. Stoughton and Acadian Governor Joseph Robineau de Villebon exchanged complaints and threats in 1698 over the issue, with Villebon issuing largely empty threats (he lacked the needed resources to execute them) to seize Massachusetts ships and property left in Acadian territory. Stoughton appealed to London for diplomatic assistance, which had some success in reducing tensions.\n\nStoughton served as acting governor until 1699, while still also serving as chief justice. He remained lieutenant governor during the brief tenure of the Earl of Bellomont as governor, and again became acting governor on the latter's departure in 1700. He was by then in poor health, and accomplished little of note in his final year.\n\nThe corporate existence of Harvard College had been thrown into turmoil by the recission of the colonial charter in 1684, upon which the Harvard charter depended. In 1692 the provincial assembly passed a law enacting a new charter for the college, but the Board of Trade vetoed this law in 1696, again throwing the college's existence into jeopardy. Stoughton, then acting governor, made temporary arrangements for the college's governance while the assembly worked to craft a new charter. Ultimately, Harvard's charter problems would not be solved until 1707, when its 1650 charter was revived.\n\nReligious and political differences between factions of directors at Harvard boiled into the open during the late 1690s. Increase Mather, then the president of Harvard, was theologically conservative, while a number of the directors had adopted moderate views, and in these years they began a struggle for control of the college. This split eventually led to the founding in 1698 of Boston's Brattle Street Church, which issued a manifesto explicitly distancing itself from some of the more extreme Puritan practices advocated by Mather and his son, Cotton. Stoughton and a number of other high-profile religious and political figures in the colony stepped in to resolve the dispute. The peace was so successfully brokered that the elder Mather took part in the new church's dedicatory services.\n\nHe died at home in Dorchester in 1701, while serving as acting governor, and was buried in the cemetery now known as the Dorchester North Burying Ground. He was a bachelor, and willed a portion of his estate and his mansion to William Tailer, the son of his sister Rebeccah. Tailer, who was twice lieutenant governor and briefly served as acting governor, was buried alongside Stoughton.\n\nThe only sermon of Stoughton's to be published was entitled \"New-Englands True Interest\". The sermon was originally delivered at the election of 1668, and was published in 1670. In it he harkened back to the founding of the colony, saying \"God sifted a whole Nation that he might send choice Grain over into this Wilderness\", but also lamented what he saw as a decline in Massachusetts society, and urged the lay members of society to defer judgment to their clerical elders.\n\nThe town of Stoughton, Massachusetts is named in his honor, as is one of the Harvard College dormitories in Harvard Yard. Construction of the first Stoughton Hall, in 1698, was made possible by his £1,000 gift.\n\n\n"}
