{"id": "1025423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1025423", "title": "Adam Strange", "text": "Adam Strange\n\nAdam Strange is a science fiction superhero appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. Created by editor Julius Schwartz with a costume designed by Murphy Anderson, he first appeared in \"Showcase\" #17 (November 1958).\n\nIn 1957, DC Comics editorial director Irwin Donenfeld held a meeting with editors Jack Schiff and Julius Schwartz in his office, asking them each to create a new science fiction hero: one from the present, and one from the future. Given first pick, Schiff chose to create one from the future (Space Ranger). However, Schwartz was unhappy with the pick, feeling that readers would more readily identify with a hero from the present. He conceived the idea of an Earth man repeatedly traveling to a planet in the Alpha Centauri star system using a fictional Zeta-beam altered by space radiation, and named his character Adam after the first man on Earth according to the Abrahamic faiths, since Adam Strange was the first Earthman on another planet.\n\nAdam Strange debuted in issues #17–19 of the tryout series \"Showcase\", published November 1958 – March 1959. The first artwork of the character was a cover for \"Showcase\" #17 by Murphy Anderson; though Schwartz rejected the drawing and commissioned a new one by Gil Kane, Anderson's costume design was retained. Schwartz then assigned the scribing of the stories to Gardner Fox and the penciling to Mike Sekowsky. Schwartz and Fox devised the plots for the stories in Schwartz's office, and Fox would write the scripts at home. A science major, Schwartz specialized in giving Fox scientific pointers that gave the Adam Strange tales a plausibility that made them stand out from most science fiction of the time.\n\nSales on the three-issue \"Showcase\" tryout were enough to justify giving Adam Strange a slot in \"Mystery in Space\", which ran in issues #53–100 and 102. Though Schwartz and Fox continued their work on the character, Schwartz gave the penciler assignment to Carmine Infantino instead of Sekowsky. Most issues were inked by Murphy Anderson (although Bernard Sachs, Joe Giella and Sid Greene did a few issues each). In the \"Justice League of America\" comic book, the Flash mentioned Adam Strange as a possible new member for the Justice League. When a letter to the editor pointed out the group had not met Adam Strange and could not have heard of him, as all his heroics took place on Rann, Schwartz and Fox wrote a story showing how the Justice League came to Rann and how Adam Strange saved them from Kanjar Ro. The story was published in \"Mystery in Space\" #75 and won the Alley Award for the \"Best Book-Length Story\" of 1962.\n\nAs of #92, Jack Schiff replaced Schwartz as editor of \"Mystery in Space\" and Lee Elias became the artist for Adam Strange. Following the discontinuation of the Adam Strange stories, reprints were presented in \"Strange Adventures\" #217 through 244 (except for #222, which instead has a new story with Strange, written by Denny O'Neil, while #226 has a new Strange text story, by Fox, with illustrations by Anderson).\n\nThrough the 1970s, the character was a regular presence in the DC Universe despite having no series of his own. In the 1980s, Alan Moore wrote a retcon of Adam Strange's reason for his visits to Rann. In this retcon, the population of the planet, the majority of whom view the Terran with contempt, is sterile, and Adam Strange is there to be a breeding stud. In a 1990 limited series, \"The Man of Two Worlds\", Adam learns of the population's opinion of him and Alanna dies giving birth to their daughter Aleea. In \"JLA\" #20 (July 1998), Alanna is revealed to be alive and is briefly reunited with her husband and daughter before Adam is transported back to Earth.\n\nIn 2013, Jeff Lemire said he intended to introduce a New 52 incarnation of Adam Strange at some point in \"Justice League Canada\", a series scheduled to launch in Spring 2014. In January 2014 Lemire announced that the series would instead be titled \"Justice League United\", and that it would feature Alanna as well as Adam.\n\nStrange is an archeologist suddenly teleported from Peru, Earth, to the planet Rann through a \"Zeta-Beam\". Upon his arrival, he is attacked by one of the planet's predators and rescued by a dark-haired woman called Alanna. She takes him to her father Sardath, who explains that the Zeta-Beam was transmitted to Earth in the hopes that whatever form of intelligent life lived there would trace it back to Rann, and he also theorizes that in the 4.3 years it took the Zeta-Beam to reach Earth, it was altered by space radiation into a transportation beam. Called on to protect the planet from extraterrestrial threats using Rann's technology, Strange grew to care for the planet and its inhabitants, especially Alanna. Eventually, the effects of the beam's transportation wore off, automatically returning Strange to Earth at the exact point of departure -- but not before Sardath had given him a schedule of beam firings, allowing him to periodically return to the planet. Using mathematical calculations, he was able to determine the exact time and the precise locations at which the Zeta-Beams would arrive. He travels the world and intercepts them, to defend Rann and be with Alanna.\n\nIn 1997, Grant Morrison revived the Justice League of America in the \"JLA\" series. During this period, Mark Waid featured Adam Strange when he filled in for Morrison. Adam Strange kidnapped the entirety of the Justice League and put them to forced labor to reconstruct Rann, as part of a ruse to rescue Alanna and her father. Strange returned to Rann in \"JLA: Heaven's Ladder\" (2000) and presumably reunited with his family shortly after.\n\n\"Planet Heist\", a 2004 eight-issue limited series, written by Andy Diggle, penciled by Pasqual Ferry and colored by Dave McCaig, replaced Adam Strange's costume with a spacesuit that allows for interstellar travel. Adam was prepared to relocate to Rann permanently when he was informed that the planet was destroyed and that he was blamed for its destruction. In fact, Sardath transported Rann to another dimension to save the planet from the cosmic being Starbreaker. Adam, with the help of the Omega Men and the Darkstars, among others, saved Rann and defeated the evil being.\n\nWhen Rann was moved, its orbit was believed to have pushed the planet Thanagar closer to its sun, destroying much of the surface (it was later discovered that the actions of Superboy-Prime moved Thanagar). Many Thanagarians were relocated to Rann, but enmity between the two races resulted in a war, depicted in \"Rann-Thanagar War\". Strange, working with Hawkman, Hawkwoman, Kyle Rayner and Kilowog, tried to end the conflict, a six-issue precursor to DC's 2005 to 2006 limited series and DC crossover event, \"Infinite Crisis\". Strange was eventually able to end the war when he discovered evidence of Superboy-Prime's role in Thanagar's relocation.\n\nAdam was stranded on a paradise-like planet with Animal Man and Starfire. As a result of a teleportation accident involving the Zeta-Beam, he lost both of his eyes but in spite of his injuries, he tried to fix a damaged spaceship so that the trio might return home. After being attacked by Devilance the Pursuer, they eventually escaped having realized that the entire planet was a trap.\n\nThis ragtag team made a stand against the villainess Lady Styx, whose undead legions were ravaging planets across the galaxy. With Styx presumably defeated and Animal Man seemingly killed, Strange and Starfire continued their journey back to Earth and Rann, still pursued by angry Lady Styx followers. With Starfire wounded in one such battle, and their ship breaking apart and malfunctioning, Adam was saved by Mogo and a rookie Green Lantern. Brought to Rann, Strange was equipped with new eyes, cloned by Aleea and genetically engineered to grant him vision of the entire electromagnetic spectrum. He was briefly questioned by the Green Lantern Corps about the secret of 52 but, when an emergency arose during the interrogation, the Lanterns offered to respond in Strange's stead so he could return to his wife.\n\nAdam Strange joined Animal Man and Starfire in the series \"Countdown to Adventure\" written by Adam Beechen in August 2007.\n\nIn issue #1, Adam finds himself replaced as Rann's protector by Champ Hazard, a former actor from Earth. However, Hazard has no regard for any life and is responsible for ending his battles in a horrifically bloody way. It appears Champ was infected by a madness plague created by Lady Styx before leaving Earth, and has infected one third of the people on Rann, causing them to riot and say \"Believe in Her.\" Adam and his family escape to Earth, where he enlists the aid of Animal Man and Starfire, eventually discovering a way to cure the plague and restore the infectees to normal.\n\nAdam Strange, along with many of the DC space heroes including Hawkman, Starfire, The Weird, and the Prince Gavyn Starman, battles Synnar the Demiurge. Adam Strange's actions in this story result in the depopulation of Prince Gavyn's Throneworld at the hands of Lady Styx. Later, to defeat Synnar and Lady Styx, Rann's atmosphere was explosively discharged into outer space with Rann's entire population Zeta-beamed to Throneworld. Strange also discovers in this story that he is a member of the so-called Aberrant Six.\n\nWith Throneworld renamed New Rann, Adam Strange once more teams up with the DC space heroes to investigate why some of the galaxy's stars are disappearing. It is discovered from the future spirit of Synnar that he is destined to be one of 'The Aberrant Six', a group critical to preventing the Synnar of today (trapped in The Weird's body) from destroying the universe. Ultimately the Aberrant Six did not form and the future Synnar was forced to leave, but not before Captain Comet's mercenary friend Eye was killed by Synnar's supreme god-enemy to prevent the forming of the Six. Comet was entrusted with Eye's robot companion Orb until she returns, told by Synnar that when that happens he will \"continue his negotiations – All has changed, but remains as it was\". Adam Strange realizes that one day Synnar will return and force him to join his Aberrant Six.\n\nAdam Strange then found himself joining up with Vril Dox as part of his R.E.B.E.L.S.. Adam Strange helped to save the Vega system and several galaxies by defeating Starro the Conqueror. It was also around this time that Adam Strange visited New Krypton to protest the accord that their Council reached with the Thanagarians. Explaining that the Rannians have recently been on the losing end in a war with the Thanagarians, Adam questions the judgment of the Council in reaching this accord. Whilst there he aided Superman who was investigating a murder.\n\nThe plight of Rann's people was soon resolved by Vril Dox, seeking to restore his reputation after Starro the Conqueror stole L.E.G.I.O.N. from him and used it to enslave its client worlds. Dox Zeta-beamed Rann into the Vega system, in the orbit previously held by the now destroyed planet Tamaran, and proceeded to terraform Rann and make it suitable to sustain life again.\n\nThe restoration of the planet Rann wasn't Dox's only reason for relocating it into the Vega system. First, by putting Rann into Tamaran's orbit, it restored the gravitational balance to the Vega system, which had been thrown off by Tamaran's destruction. Secondly, in exchange for restoring their planet, the people of Rann agreed to let Dox rebuild L.E.G.I.O.N. headquarters on Rann.\n\nTamaranian refugees, led by Blackfire, attacked Rann believing that since the planet was in Tamaran's orbit they had claim to it. The violence was ended when Vril Dox, who was off-world at the start of the conflict, arrived with Thanagarian warships and stopped the fighting without bloodshed on either side. As it turned out, Dox was off-world negotiating an official end to the Rann-Thanagar War, using Rann's new-found distance from Thanagar and change in leadership on both sides as leverage.\n\nDox then went on to mediate the tension between the Rannians and the Tamaranians by proposing that the Tamaranians live on Rann's uninhabited southern continent.\n\nAdam Strange, as well as protector of Rann, would also become a senior commander of L.E.G.I.O.N. ensuring peace with the Green Lantern Corps. He also helped create an alliance between Rannians, Tamaranians and L.E.G.I.O.N. after defeating Starro the Conqueror, ensuring security for Rann, the Vega System and the galaxy.\n\nAdam Strange lacks any real superhuman attributes, choosing to rely more on quick thinking and ingenuity. Before coming to Rann, Strange was an accomplished explorer and archaeologist who specialized in gathering and studying lost artifacts found in the remains of ancient civilizations. Applying these qualities to his new life on Rann, he would venture out with his new family into the wilds of their homeworld to study and rediscover its ancient history. Eventually his experiences accumulated on his adventures through the study and understanding of both Rannian culture and its vast technologies as well as its vested history, enabled Adam to pick up a host of vaunted combat techniques and scientific knowledge. Giving him the edge needed to match and defeat physically or innumerably more imposing opponents over the many years. Having battled and bested adversaries both native and extraterrestrial in nature; such as Thanagarians, Durlans, Qwardians, En'Tarans, Meta-Humans, etc. This along with his many decades of thriving in the harsh environments of Rann, earth and other galaxian territories has made Adam an accomplished survivalist, having spent just as long traversing the rural areas as treacherous as the Amazon rainforest back on Earth. \n\nStrange has a tactical intellect on par with - or exceeding - the likes of Bruce Wayne and Lex Luthor, and complements this with the learning that he has gained in his many years of study on Rann. He is able to reverse engineer functional technological wonders even from the damaged remains of an alien ship with ease. He is also an accomplished mathematician, who can expertly deduce the exact time and place when and where Sardeth's Zeta Beam will hit on his home planet of Earth. Grant Morrison showcases his intellect in his run on \"JLA\". After Rann is conquered by a telepathic race called En'Tarans, Strange defeats them by secretly converting the planet into a giant Zeta Beam gun, powered by the latent Mega Zeta Radiation in his body. With the aid of the JLA, Strange successfully transports the En'Taran fleet to another part of the galaxy. In the aftermath of the Infinite Crisis event, Adam Strange loses his eyes in a freak Zeta Beam accident. Sardeth is able to clone a new set of eyes from his granddaughter, Aleea Strange, and transplant them into Adam. These new eyes enable Adam to see the entire electromagnetic spectrum.\n\n\"Rannian Technology\"\nAs the protector of Rann, Adam is well connected with Sardeth and his science council. Adam uses of a colorful variety of technologies both as a hero and spacefarer, the resources pertaining to Rann's wonders of science available to him are numerous. Having studied, taken apart and rebuilt much of his own equipment; mainly consisting of high-tech munitions, armor, gadget's & utensils or cutting edge genetics engineering. Strange is also well versed in their mechanical function as well as practical use in his heroic endeavors. \n\nStrange is an adept aerial combatant, often making use of a fireproof, thermal insulated and environmentally adapted suit with which to traverse the terrains of foreign worlds or in the cold depths of space. With further upgrades, Stranges costume boasts a built-in Zeta Beamer with which to warp lightyears across the universe in an instant. \n\nThe helmet is equipped with a life support system that protects Adam from harmful atmospheric conditions, while the suit itself pulls up a Holographic HUD (Heads Up Display) system with which to control his equipment via thought & voice command. Technology of which is slaved to his handheld blaster, sporting real-time threat assessment and targeting priority reticles to better combat adversaries. \n\nThe jetpack is a twin-engine propulsion system attached to a harness adorning his back capable of aerial aviation for an undisclosed amount of time. Strange is also versed in other kinds of rocket propulsion equipment like a booster system with hidden back up blasters, with his equipment Strange can also make escape velocity in order to break planetary orbit. \n\nPrimary weapon of choice is a Rannian laser pistol among other assorted weapons and munitions picked up from across the galaxy. Adam Strange is a crack marksman with just about any ranged weapon on hand at the time, the gun comes with a targeting system conductor when worked in tandem with his costume and has a stun setting for non-lethal application. \n\nOther munitions in his arsenal include Holo-Blasters, which are Hard-Light Energy arms that Strange can use to conjure any number of ordinance or enhanced protective shielding with while in a firefight. The effectiveness of these armaments makes them potent enough in dispatching Smite, one of Starro's lieutenants boasting physical capabilities rivaling Superman or Lobo. When properly calibrated by outside forces, these energy weapons can also channel the light of a Power Ring or a facsimile of its corresponding emotion that can dispatch a small enclave of Black Lantern's. \n\nOne of Strange's as well as the planet of Rann's greatest resource is the Zeta Beam technology developed by Sardeth. Initially designed as a means of communications with intelligent life from across the universe, it was accidentally discovered to be an instantaneous means of intergalactic transport that rode along a cosmic radiation called Zeta Rays. The effects of the ray were always short lived, and their dissipation meant Adam would return to where he first intercepted the ray. This would be a running staple for years until later Zeta designs made its effects permanent, albeit at the cost debilitating mental sickness for its user. Eventual innovations in Rannian transport technology would produce a more streamlined device called the Zeta Beamer module, an A.I. commanded mobile drone in the form of a floating sphere that could be used to track Zeta Rays across galaxies and even into alternate universes. Like the Mega Zeta Beam, transport was also permanent, without the danger of Zeta Ray sickness. Further modifications integrated the transport device into Adam's space suit.\n\nAdam Strange has a descendant, also named Adam Strange, in the future of the Space Ranger, as seen in \"Mystery in Space\" #94 (September 1964).\n\nIn \"The New 52, a 2011 reboot of the DC Comics universe, a new Adam Strange is a Canadian archaeologist who has a relationship with Alanna (now Alanna Lewis, a former student of his) and a member of Justice League United.\n\nAdam Strange had a crossover with Jonny Quest in \"Adam Strange / Future Quest Annual\" # 1 on March 29, 2017. \n\n\n\n\n\nThe character and series of the same name have received several awards over the years, including the 1967 and 1968 Alley Awards for Strip Most Desired for Revival. IGN ranked Adam Strange as the 97th greatest comic book hero of all time stating thatIf by fluke we were given the chance to ride a Zeta Beam[sic] into space, meet a sexy alien princess[sic] on the planet Rann, and fight extraterrestrial threats with high-tech weaponry, I[sic] wouldn’t want to go back to mundane Earth-life either. That makes us completely sympathetic to Adam Strange’s plight.\n\n"}
{"id": "50399097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50399097", "title": "Al-Yahudu Tablets", "text": "Al-Yahudu Tablets\n\nThe Al-Yahudu tablets are a collection of about 200 clay tablets from the sixth and fifth centuries BCE on the exiled Judean community in Babylonia following the destruction of the First Temple. They contain information on the physical condition of the exiles from Israel and their financial condition in Babylon. The tablets are named after the central settlement mentioned in the documents, al-Yahudu (Akkadian: The city of Judah).\n\nThe earliest document in the collection dates back to 572 BCE, about 15 years after the destruction of the Temple, during the reign of Nebuchadnezzar II. The most recent tablet dates back to 477 BCE, during the reign of Xerxes I, about 60 years after the Return to Zion began and about 20 years before the rise of Ezra the Scribe.\n\nThe public records do not contain information on the location and date of the discovery of the documents in Iraq, and it seems that they were not found in an archaeological excavation. The first time the public was exposed to the documents and the settlement of al-Yahudu was in an article by two French researchers in 1999, which dealt with three legal documents of Jews in Babylon, including the city of al-Yahudu itself. These three certificates were part of a small collection of six documents in the possession of Israeli antiquities collector Shlomo Moussaieff.\n\nAt the beginning of the 21st century, it turned out that this was not a small collection, but a collection of more than 200 documents, most of which were in two other private collections. Some of the documents were presented in 2004 at Beth Hatefutsoth in Tel Aviv and were investigated in part by Kathleen Abraham of Bar-Ilan University. Since then, the entire collection has been investigated mainly by two researchers - Cornelia Wunsch of Germany and Laurie Pearce of the United States. After a series of papers on documentary issues, Wensh and Pierce published in early 2015 the first full translations and analysis of the collection in the author's book.\n\nAlthough no information was given on the circumstances of the discovery of the documents, the plan provides clues as to the location of the communities mentioned in the Jewish exiles. The assessment is based on two main components:\n\n\nBased off this, researchers estimate that al-Yahudu and the other communities mentioned in the documents are located in the area southeast of the city of Nippur.\n\nBeyond the settlement of al-Yahudu, other settlements were mentioned where Jews were living or working. Some of them are well-known cities and some were apparently satellite settlements of al-Yahudu. The main localities mentioned in the documents are:\n\n\nThe collection also contains documents from the cities of Babylon, Nippur, Borsippa, and even a document signed on the banks of the Kebar River, known in the bible as the site of the Exile and known from the Babylonian records as an irrigation canal which was also used as a transportation channel for commerce and movement of people. The collection contained no references to other biblical-known cities in which the Babylonian exiles resided.\n\nThe al-Yahudu tablets cover a period of 100 years under Babylonian rule, especially Persian. In general, the documents show a similarity between the life of the Jews and other exiles in the kingdom at the time. In principle, it can be said that the documents attest to the tension between the preservation of Jewish identity, language, culture and religion and the need, and sometimes the will, to integrate into life in Babylon. In this respect, life in Babylon corresponds to the instruction of the prophet Jeremiah in a letter he sent from Judah to the Babylonian exiles following the exile of Jeconiah in 577 BCE.\n\nAccording to the documents, the Jews were defined as \"Shushanu.\" This status is also known from other documents from the period and relates to foreign exiles who were exiled to Babylon, mainly in order to rehabilitate cities and areas devastated by past wars. These exiles received land lease for their livelihood in the form of service in exchange for land. Although they can be compared to the status of land-bound tenants, they seem to have enjoyed freedom of movement, they were defined as independent entities before the Babylonian and Persian law and enjoyed the possibilities of social and economic integration.\n\nThe type of service required of the exiles is mentioned in the documents, both in the context of the designation of the leasehold lands and directly in the jobs that the exiles were required to perform as part of the payment of taxes. Based on other documents dealing with payment of tax and service to the kingdom after their settlement, it seems that other exiles were employed in physical labor. These included construction work, excavation and maintenance of irrigation channels. It is possible that among these were many of the \"plow and locksmith,\" mentioned in connection with the exile of Jeconiah in 597 BCE. The nature of the service described also appears to indicate a restriction imposed on them in their movement, and to a certain extent may have been in this period a status similar to that of a slave. This period maybe reflected in the famous lines from Psalms 137 on the exile.\n\nMost of the Jews on the certificates made their living from agriculture. Most of the land they leased grew dates and barley, but wheat, spices and linen were also mentioned in the documents. Analysis of the money amounts in the transactions appearing in the certificates shows that they had a low economic status relative to the kingdom. A comparison of the economic agreements from other collections in Babylon indicates the integration of the Jews into the economic life of Babylon, and it seems that they operated on the daily economic level, like other Babylonians, and not necessarily according to the laws of the Torah.\n\nAmong the exiles, there are documents of a number of Jews of strong economic standing. Some (such as Raphaiah Ben Smachiho and his son) acted as intermediaries and credit providers to the Jewish population and managed to accumulate substantial capital. These intermediaries provided pure silver coins to concentrate tax payments of various Jews and provided farmers with means of production, such as plowing animals and grain.\n\nDue to the nature of the documents, this subject appears only implicitly. The preservation of Jewish identity can be seen in the sequence of names given to family members for at least four generations, the fact that no documents were found on Jewish holidays, and that dates were not signed on Shabbat.\n\nThe documents do not show signs of people leaving for Judea, but at least two Jews have been found who had a desire to return to Zion:\n\n"}
{"id": "3202276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3202276", "title": "Albín Brunovský", "text": "Albín Brunovský\n\nAlbín Brunovský (25 December 1935, Zohor, Czechoslovakia – 20 January 1997, Bratislava, Slovakia) was a Slovak painter, graphic artist, lithographer, illustrator and pedagogue, considered one of the greatest Slovak painters of the 20th century.\n\nAlbín Brunovský was born in Zohor, Czechoslovakia on Christmas Day, 25 December 1935. Brunovský started his early career in art by working on stage set and poster design. He studied at the Academy of Fine Arts in Bratislava under Prof. Vincent Hložník from 1955 to 1961. The Hloznik School was well known for its high artistic and technical preparation in graphic arts and its humanist perspective. For the founder, as for many of his students, Goya’s great graphic cycle \"The Horrors of War\" served as a pattern or model. Brunovský himself lectured at that Academy from 1966 to 1990. In 1981 he was appointed a professor, creating his own engraving school several years later. Brunovský's work often mirrored that of the modern movement, \"citation art\". Brunovský was also the designer of the last series of Czechoslovak banknotes. His illustrations were primarily for children's books.\n\nOver the course of his career, Brunovsky experimented with various graphic techniques and was highly influenced in his subject matter by poetry and literature, as well, of course, as by other artists. While at school he used the techniques of woodcuts and linocuts. Soon after, however, he began experimenting with \"scraper\" and chalk lithography. Etching were the characteristic mode of his graphic art work during the mid-1960s. He was, however, a painter too. Many of his illustrations were done in watercolor and he eventually began to paint major works.\n\nAs his mastery of various techniques evolved over time, so too did his vision as an artist. When he was young, Brunovsky exhibited surrealistic tendencies—defined as a tendency to individualism and absurdity and the unchecked play of the subconscious. Later his work became more evaluative and critical of Man in relation to himself and society.\n\n\"I have such a creative program that pushes me to work. My pictures are simply doing with me what they want. Sometimes I don't feel like working. But when I come to my studio and I notice, that one work is not ready and the other one hopeless, I go and sit next to them for a while and suddenly I realise that there is evening. And in this way every morning I let myself to be pleasantly abused by my paintings that allow me to dream.\" (Albín Brunovský)\n\n[Slovak talent of the communist era] \"grew in the vegetables\" (Albín Brunovský)\n[\"he uses] \"nature and its elements to depict the reality of dreams\" (Albín Brunovský)\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2471497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2471497", "title": "Après Match", "text": "Après Match\n\nAprès Match is an Irish comedy show normally screened after competitive Irish soccer matches on RTÉ. It is performed by Barry Murphy, Risteárd Cooper and Gary Cooke. It grew out of Barry Murphy and Risteárd Cooper's \"Frank's Euro Ting\" sketches which first enlivened RTÉ's coverage of Euro '96 for which Rep. of Ireland had failed to qualify. Barry Murphy had performed similar football-related sketches on RTÉ in 1994.\n\n\"Après Match\" proper was born when Gary Cooke joined the duo and soon became a fixture following each of Ireland's qualifying games for the 1998 World Cup.\n\nThe show mocks famous, mostly Irish, soccer stars and pundits including Bill O'Herlihy, Eamon Dunphy, Johnny Giles, Liam Brady, Frank Stapleton, Colm Murray, Graeme Souness, Jackie Fullerton and Pat Jennings as well as pundits from the British channels, including Richard Keys, Andy Gray, Jamie Redknapp, Gary Lineker, Alan Hansen, Des Lynam, Jimmy Hill, Gordon Strachan, Terry Venables, Ian St John, Jimmy Greaves, Trevor Brooking, Brian Clough, Kevin Keegan, Barry Davies, David Coleman, Brian Moore and Gabby Logan. They also mock Irish television and radio personalities such as Marian Finucane, Miriam O'Callaghan, Vincent Browne, Tom McGurk, David McWilliams, Brent Pope, George Hook, Joe Duffy, Pat Kenny and Gerry Ryan. As of 2010, they have added politicians such as Brian Cowen, Brian Lenihan and Joan Burton to their repertoire. The \"Après Match\" team have sold out venues all over Ireland including Vicar Street, the Olympia Theatre and the Gaiety Theatre.\n\n\"Après Match\" performed sketches on RTÉ Two after many of the matches of the 2006 FIFA World Cup. As well as mocking the usual broadcasters, the team interviewed football fans in Germany. There were also a number of sketches following a mock attempt at a takeover by the Gaelic Athletic Association Head Assimilator of Foreign Games of the Match of the Day studios at BBC Television Centre in London and a Father Ted parody of FAI officials and Irish manager Steve Staunton. For the third place play-off match between Germany and Portugal, the team took over full studio coverage, as well as half-time and full-time analysis, as they had done for the corresponding match of the 2002 World Cup.\n\nA Christmas special was broadcast on RTÉ Two on St. Stephen's Day 2006. This edition featured highlights of Après Match sketches from 2006, including sequences from the previous summer's World Cup. The stars of the show interviewed the real RTÉ analysts including Ray Houghton, RTÉ commentator George Hamilton and Sky Sports' Chris Kamara. TV3 sports broadcaster Trevor Welch was lampooned, including having his vowels drawn out as he was interviewing fans from participating countries such as Costa Rica and Germany. The broadcast also featured extended highlights of the stars covering the third place play-off of the World Cup between Germany and Portugal.\n\nThe trio marked their tenth anniversary with three weeks of sketches during UEFA Euro 2008. The tournament marked their biggest contribution yet to RTÉ's coverage of a major tournament. For the first time, Après Match had its own producer, Gráinne O'Carroll, and production team. The real O'Herlihy said that Après Match has played a significant part in what have been impressive viewing figures for a tournament that, in the absence of Ireland and England, he thought might not have generated much interest. He said: \n\nFor O'Herlihy keeping his composure proved difficult and he was finally sent over the edge by the \"Frankly Speaking\" interview with Fernando Torres, when Frank Stapleton asked the player if it was difficult for him having the hopes of all of Spain resting on his shoulders \"seeing as they're quite slopey\". The rest of the panel had difficulty keeping their composure too, with the parodies on Andy Gray and Richard Keys of Sky Sports \"often rendering a tearful Graeme Souness speechless\". The highlights were released on DVD and broadcast as a TV Christmas special the following December.\n\nThe team returned to RTÉ Two with brand new sketches and material for the duration of the 2010 FIFA World Cup. Footballer Andy Reid made a guest appearance in two sketches. Sunderland A.F.C.'s Stadium of Light was used in one sketch. Dietmar Hamann and Osvaldo Ardiles, the newest pundits in RTÉ's World Cup team, also made appearances in the Après Match line up. For the 3rd place play-off match between Germany and Uruguay, the whole show (Preview, half-time and full-time analysis) was Après Match, and was followed by a \"special edition\" of Après Match in which the real RTÉ panel discussed Après Match.\n\nThe team returned for a new round of sketches for the Euro 2012 tournament. They got off to a start with the sketch of the Irish showband Crystal Swing. Nearly all sketches after that featured Bill, Eamonn, John and Liam. During the tournament it featured more \"Best of Apres Match\" than new material.\n\nThe team returned with brand new sketches for Euro 2016. They started off with a sketch that included the match between Ireland and England at Euro '88 when Ray Houghton scored the winning goal. After the Ireland-Sweden match, they returned once again with a sketch that included the football analysts in the RTÉ studio, Liam Brady and Eamon Dunphy, as well as presenter Darragh Maloney. After the Irish victory over Italy, the crew created a satirical sketch which was a parody of the TV3 studio, who are RTÉ's main competitor.\n\nIn addition to their football sketches, the trio also parodied the Irish political situation in 1982 when two general elections happened in a programme called \"Après Match Presents Election '82\", which aired on RTÉ One on 24 February 2016. The trio also spoofed classic Ireland soccer matches in a series entitled \"Après Match of The Day\". A second series of \"Apres Match of The Day\" began on Monday 6 March 2017 in which the trio introduced their own version of the 1979 All-Ireland Senior Football Championship Final between Dublin and Kerry and the mass that took place during the visit to Ireland made by Pope John Paul II at Ballybrit Racecourse.\n\nThere are clips of some classic footage, news, events, weather, programmes and RTE advert breaks since the 1970s featured in it. Every Aprés Match programme will be on YouTube in future in full and clips.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23850523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23850523", "title": "Aqua drama", "text": "Aqua drama\n\nThe of aqua drama that was popular in 19th century France, England, and the United States involved flooding the arenas of circuses for recreations of major naval conflicts and similar aquatic events; some venues participated to such a great extent in this once-popular form as to install permanent water-tanks on stage. Water-based spectacles, especially those portraying great naval battles, had been popular in Roman times, when they were known as \"naumachia\", and the custom was resurrected at various times during the Middle Ages.\n\nAt the start of the 19th century, the already established Sadler's Wells Theatre came under the management of Charles Dibdin, Jr., a man who had big plans for the theatre's future. In 1804, he installed a large 90x24x3ft water tank that covered the entire stage. The water used to fill the tank was pumped in from the New River, which was adjacent to the theatre, by an Archimedes wheel. This process took twelve men twelve hours: four men would work in four hour shifts and then rotate until the entire tank was full. Even though the tanks were drained and refilled every three weeks they would become filthy. The water would become dirty not only from the shows, but the actors would bathe in the tank, along with rowdy audience members jumping in to see if the water was real. The Aquatic Drama was popular in the early 19th century, and with Sadler's Wells on the outskirts of London, the audiences, especially in the pit were unruly, loud, and most likely drunk. The large water tank that these disruptive audience members would jump into was not the only tank in the theatre, Dibdin Jr. had a second 5x5x5 ft tank above the theatre that was used to simulate waterfalls.\n\nThe first show Dibdin, Jr. and his crew put on was \"The Siege of Gibralter.\" It opened in 1804, and it was a play that depicted the naval battle between the English Navy and the Spanish Armada. A playbill from this performance describes the battle in the show:\n\n\"the conflagration of the town in various places, the defense of the garrison, and attack by the floating batteries, [which] is so faithfully and naturally represented, that when the floating batteries take fire, some blowing up with a dreadful explosion, and others, after burning to the water’s edge, sink to the bottom; while the gallant Sir Roger Curtis appears in his boat to save the drowning Spaniards, the British tars for that purpose plunging into the water, the effect is such as to produce an unprecedented climax of astonishment and applause.\"\n\nThere were 177 ships on the liquid stage, all equipped with live guns and ready for battle. Over a hundred real scale sized naval ships would not have been able to fit in Sadler's Wells tanks, so Dibdin hired men who worked at the Woolwich Dockyards to build him smaller ships built at a one-inch per foot scale, with exact detailed imitation down to the rigging. Children were cast as some of the Spanish naval officers manning the tiny ships, and were seen “drowning” after the Spanish had been defeated. The climactic battle of the show was when the English and Spanish went head on, full force, with guns blazing, and the audience members saw incredible spectacle as the English triumphantly destroyed the Spanish Armada.\n\nIn 1823 Sadler's Wells presented the aqua drama entitled \"The Island or Christian and His Comrades\" which dramatized the main events of the Mutiny on board HMS \"Bounty\". In order to alleviate a twenty-minute delay between a dry land scene and an aquatic scene, the stage was made to ascend to near the roof of the theatre, in full view of the audience.\n\nEventually the aqua drama slash began to ripple then calm as audience members were no longer pleased with what was being performed at Sadler's Wells. This could have been due to the fact that Dibdin, Jr. tried to reuse many of his 177 ships from the \"Siege of Gibraltar,\" and they were no longer new and exciting to the audiences, but also the Napoleonic wars could have contributed. According to Dan Cuickshank at BBC News, the Napoleonic wars were raging on during the early 1800s and England dipped its toes in the war waters in 1793 with the new Revolutionary France. After a decade of fighting the two countries finally signed at the Treaty of Amiens, which only lasted a month until in May 1803 war broke out between the two countries again. The initial declaration of war could have sparked a rise in nationalism with in England, being a contributing factor into the Dibden, Jr. and his aquatic drama's success. Britain was known for having a large and powerful navy, and they didn't mind flexing their muscles as they asserted themselves as the most powerful navy in Europe at the 1815 after their victory at Waterloo. The citizens of England would have known how powerful their countries navy was. Seeing shows, such as the ones being put at Sadler's Wells, reminded the English people of how strong their military was, making them feel proud and safe initially. Yet, after a few years into the war the citizens began to realize the horrors of war. According to Mather, they were exposed not only to the death of friends and family along with the fear of invasion, but also the raising of taxes to fund the military. A staggering 11.6 million, which is around 570 million pounds in today's market, was spent on forts alone, most of which were protecting dock yards. The British people became fed up with war, especially naval combat and eventually the tanks were taken out of the theatre. Removal of the tanks due to lack of popularity reflects the English nation's view of war.\n\nEven though the tanks were removed in 1824, aqua drama was a part of a long lasting theatre's history. The legacy left behind of aquatic theatre is only a few pages in books and websites, and a painting or two, but Sadler's Wells legacy has been alive and well since Richard Sadler first opened his music house in 1683. Since then the theatre has seen many triumphs and tragedies. After Charles Dibdin, Jr. resigned there was a false fire alarm during one of the shows which lead to 18 people being stampeded to death.\n\nIn 1843 the theater was once again successful, as the actor manager Samuel Philips put on Shakespeare's plays. Sadly, in 1915 the doors to Sadler's Wells were closed. Lilian Baylis, who wanted everyone in London to have the privilege to see the mesmerizing art of theatre, raised the money to reopen Sadler's Wells. The Sadler's Wells legacy continued as it was once again able to share theatre's magic with the people of northern London in 1931. After many years of putting on progressive theatre that entertained northern London, the play aspect of Sadler's Wells eventually faded out, opera and dance became prominent. Around 1945 Sadler's Wells started to become a strictly dance performance hall. The theatre legacy was replaced over the next half century as the once music hall become an outstanding, well respected dance hall. Sadler's Wells still stands today, not in the same building, but with the murky water of Charles Dibdin, Jr.’s aquatic theatre running in its historic veins.\n\nNew York City's Lafayette Circus (1826-1829) boasted equipment for both equestrian, or \"Hippodrama\", and aquatic dramas.\n\nOn July 4, 1840, The Bowery Theatre in New York City produced \"The Pirates Signal\". An immense stage was entirely covered by water upon which a full-rigged ship maneuvered. The scene took place upon the decks of the ship itself.\n\n"}
{"id": "30405122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30405122", "title": "Bartholomaeus of Neocastro", "text": "Bartholomaeus of Neocastro\n\nBartholomaeus of Neocastro ( 1240 – after 1293) was an Italian jurist, and author of a chronicle called the \"Historia Sicula\", which covers the years from 1250 to 1293.\n"}
{"id": "907819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=907819", "title": "Basic norm", "text": "Basic norm\n\nBasic norm () is a concept in the \"Pure Theory of Law\" created by Hans Kelsen, a jurist and legal philosopher. Kelsen used this word to denote the basic norm, order, or rule that forms an underlying basis for a legal system. The theory is based on a need to find a point of origin for all law, on which basic law and the constitution can gain their legitimacy (akin to the concept of first principles). This \"basic norm\", however, is often ascribed as hypothetical. The reception of the term has fallen into three broad areas of discernment including (i) Kelsen's original introduction of the term, (ii) the Neo-Kantian reception of the term by Kelsen's critics and followers, and (iii) the hypothetical and symbolic use of the term through the history of its application.\n\nRegarding Kelsen's original use of the term, its closest antecedent appears in writings of his colleague Adolf Merkl at the University of Vienna. Merkl was developing a structural research approach for the understanding of law as a matter of the hierarchical relationship of norms, largely on the basis of their being either superior, the one to the other, or inferior with respect to each other. Kelsen adapted and assimilated much of Merkl's approach into his own presentation of the \"Pure Theory of Law\" in both its original version and its revised version. For Kelsen, the importance of the Basic Norm was in large measure two-fold since it importantly indicated the logical recursion of superior relationships between norms as they led to the norm which ultimately would have no other norm to which it was inferior. Its second feature was that it represented the importance which Kelsen associated with the concept of a fully centralized legal order in contrast to the existence of decentralized forms of government and representing legal orders.\n\nThe second form of the reception of the term originated from the fairly extended attempt to read Kelsen as a Neo-Kantian following his early exchange with Hermann Cohen in 1913 concerning the publication of his Habilitation dissertation in 1911 on Public Law. Cohen was a leading Neo-Kantian of the time and Kelsen was, in his own way, receptive to many of the ideas which Cohen had expressed in his published book review of Kelsen's writing. Kelsen had insisted that he had never used this material in the actual writing of his own book, though Cohen's ideas were attractive to him in their own right. This has resulted in one of the longest-running debates within the general Kelsen community as to whether Kelsen became a Neo-Kantian himself after the encounter with Cohen, or if he managed to keep his own non-Neo-Kantian position intact which he claimed was the prevailing circumstance when he first wrote his book in 1911.\n\nThe Neo-Kantians, when pressing the issue, would lead Kelsen into discussions concerning whether the existence of such a \"Grundnorm\" was strictly symbolic or whether it had a concrete foundation. This has led to the further division within this debate concerning the currency of the term \"Grundnorm\" as to whether it should be read, on the one hand, as part and parcel of Hans Vaihinger's \"as-if\" hypothetical construction. On the other hand, to those seeking a practical reading, the \"Grundnorm\" corresponded to something directly and concretely comparable to a sovereign nation's federal constitution, under which would be organized all or its regional and local laws, and no law would be recognized as being superior to it.\n\nIn different contexts, Kelsen would indicate his preferences in different ways, with some Neo-Kantians asserting that late in life Kelsen would largely abide by the symbolic reading of the term when used in the Neo-Kantian context, and as he has documented. The Neo-Kantian reading of Kelsen can further be subdivided into three subgroups, with each representing their own preferred reading of the meaning of the 'Grundnorm,' which were identifiable as (a) the Marburg Neo-Kantians, (b) the Baden-Baden Neo-Kantians, and (c) his own Kelsenian reading of the Neo-Kantian school with which his writings on this subject are often associated, as found in his response to the Cohen exchange circa 1911-1914.\n\nThis has led to criticism from noted authors such as H. L. A. Hart, who refers to the theory as a `needless duplication' of the `living reality' of the courts and officials actually identifying the law in accordance with the constitution's rules. It is mystifying to posit a rule beyond these rules, which adds, superfluously in Hart's view, that the constitution is to be obeyed.\n\nKelsen also attempted to explain International Law by applying the concept of there being a Grundnorm superior to all the Grundnorms of the state. This theory has been severely criticised by theorists like Hart and Lord Lloyd, though others, such as followers of various schools of the future development of the United Nations, including Grenville Clark and Louis B. Sohn of Harvard, who have strongly endorsed it.\n\nNorm (social)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48491141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48491141", "title": "British Archaeological Reports", "text": "British Archaeological Reports\n\nThe British Archaeological Reports Series contains over 3500 books of academic archaeological research, including monographs, excavation reports, revised theses and conference proceedings. Founded in 1974, the BAR series is the largest series of academic archaeology in the world, covering all major aspects of academic archaeology worldwide.\n\nThe company that publishes the series, BAR Publishing (trading name of British Archaeological Reports (Oxford) Ltd), is an independent publisher that, from the outset, has been dedicated to academic archaeology and to publishing original work.\n\nThe BAR Series consists of the International series and the British series.\n\nThe founders, Anthony Hands and David Walker, started the publishing business when, in the late 1960s, they were unable to publish the site reports of their own archaeological dig, Shakenoak Roman Villla in Oxfordshire. The prohibitive cost of printing in Britain at that time, and the lack of specialist publishers willing to publish archaeological site reports, meant that Hands, Walker and their colleague Conant Brodribb ended up self publishing. This involved buying a commercial printing machine and undertaking the full production of their own books. Indeed, up until 1989 all BARs were printed by Hands and Walker on their own printer, and collated, stapled and guillotined in-house.\n\nHands and Walker wanted to include in the BAR series archaeology from areas of the world which had previously been unable to get their research out to an international audience. It was not an easy task to reach the key archaeologists in countries such as Russia, the far eastern USSR, the communist countries of eastern Europe, Spain under Franco, and involved long slow postal communications in a wide variety of languages. However, the results were effective and for the first time the archaeology of these countries became easily available in the west. The archaeology of the rest of Europe, the Americas, Australia, Asia etc. was also included.\n\nThe BAR series has always been published in English, French, German, Italian and Spanish, the main languages of archaeology. The books are also on occasion published in other languages, with a full English translation.\n\nFrom 1991, the BAR series was published jointly by Tempvs Reparatvm with British Archaeological Reports (Oxford) Ltd and Hadrian Books. Archaeopress and the archaeologists John and Erica Hedges later took over publication of BAR until 2015, when publication reverted to BAR.\n\nSebastian Rahtz, writing in 1994, states that \"BAR made an important contribution to archaeological computing in the UK\", through publishing the \"Computer Applications in Archaeology\" conferences. He also notes that BAR at this period struggled to cover developing countries, \"pioneered uncritical publication of 'data'\" and did not resolve the \"intractable\" problem of the speed of publication.\n\n"}
{"id": "34733272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34733272", "title": "Burning Down the Bayit", "text": "Burning Down the Bayit\n\n\"Burning Down the Bayit\" is the fifteenth episode of the tenth season of the animated comedy series \"Family Guy\". The episode originally aired on Fox in the United States on March 4, 2012 and was first in its timeslot. Overwhelmed with financial troubles, Mort asks Peter and Quagmire to help him save his pharmacy. However, things take a turn for the worse when the trio decides to burn it down to collect insurance money.\n\nThe episode title is a reference to the song \"Burning Down the House\", with \"house\" replaced by the Hebrew word \"bayit\" (בית).\n\nThis episode was written by Chris Sheridan and directed by Jerry Langford. Scott Bakula guest-starred as himself in a live-action cutaway.\n\nAfter Peter hurts Quagmire when he runs over one of Brian's bones with his new riding lawnmower, they stop by Mort's pharmacy to get some antibiotics. There they find out that Mort is overwhelmed with financial troubles since Muriel died as she was able to cheat the customers successfully. They try to help out, at first Peter repeatedly opens and closes the cash register, but that doesn't get any customer. They then suggest that he do a \"buy one get one free\" sale (as a typical stereotyping of Jewish people, Mort does not understand the words \"get one free\" if it's referring to him, but does when it refers to some other business).\n\nThe three then work on the pill section where they have to put pills in specific containers, until the converter belt goes too fast. In response, they begin to eat the pills which results in Quagmire passing out and Peter bleeding from his nose and having a large erection. Next, they try a flying banner advertisement, only for it to break from Quagmire's plane and fall onto a bus, killing a bunch of teenagers. Desperate, Mort tells of how his cousin's place burned down leaving him with a large settlement. Peter and Quagmire have recollections on how insurance companies have screwed them over in the past. Although Quagmire has reservations about the plan, they agree to it and burn down the pharmacy, taking the opportunity to do it while Joe is away at a paraplegic Cher impersonator concert.\n\nAfter they successfully collect, Quagmire continues to worry and Joe seems to hang around more than they expect to discover the real reason behind the fire, which is his way of helping Mort (not realizing that they started the incident). When Joe starts to discover that things are amiss at the fire, the guys try to distract him. As Quagmire is about to crack at the Drunken Clam, Joe arrives after finding a voice mail of Peter talking about the crime after accidentally dialing Joe with his phone in his pocket and places the group under arrest. Mort threatens to run, but refuses after seeing his old gym teacher that has been stalking him since junior high school ready to laugh at him.\n\nAt the station, Joe interrogates the guys with varying degrees of success. When he points out they are going away for the crime, they question whether or not he had ever been screwed over by an insurance company. Joe recalls that after his paralyzing accident, the insurance company refused to pay for a $200,000 procedure that would have saved his legs; instead, they paid for the $60 wheelchair Joe is currently sitting on. While Joe still feels that the guys committed a crime, he erases the evidence and frees the guys. After Peter wraps things up with his family, Peter leaves to go wrap things up with his \"basement family\" (primitive, animal-skin-wearing equivalents of his \"regular family\" where he asks if they had learned their lesson about eating an uncooked antelope. Primitive-Stewie is depicted as being much like Gollum from the Peter Jackson movie version of the \"Lord of the Rings\" saga.\n\nThe episode received a 2.8 rating and was watched by a total of 5.33 million people, this made it the most watched show on Animation Domination that night, beating \"The Cleveland Show\", \"Napoleon Dynamite\", \"American Dad!\" and \"The Simpsons\" with 5.09 million. Kevin McFarland on \"The A.V. Club\" gave a C, saying \"When \"Family Guy\" tries to grandstand on a particularly skewed opinion, at least it carries some perspective. More often the show chooses to give on-the-nose positions to Brian instead of Peter and his friends, as was the case tonight. Regardless of whether anyone agrees with what Seth MacFarlane and his writing staff uses their soapbox to say, they usually project an unreliably informed opinion with such blind vigor that it merits a reaction. But lately \"Family Guy\" has been incapable of even drawing out that response, devoid of a clear point of view. I enjoyed the cutaways quite a bit tonight, but I think that was simply because the only plotline of the episode was so lacking in direction that cutting away from the story into an out of context clip was the only way to get laughs.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2494871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2494871", "title": "Chicken Little", "text": "Chicken Little\n\nChicken Little, also known as Henny Penny and sometimes as Chicken Licken, is a European folk tale with a moral in the form of a cumulative tale about a chicken who believes the world is coming to an end. The phrase featured prominently in the story, and has passed into the English language as a common idiom indicating a hysterical or mistaken belief that disaster is imminent. Versions of the story go back more than 25 centuries; it continues to be referred to in a variety of media.\n\nThe story is listed as Aarne-Thompson-Uther type 20C, which includes international examples of folktales that make light of paranoia and mass hysteria. \nThere are several Western versions of the story, of which the best-known concerns a chick that believes the sky is falling when an acorn falls on its head. The chick decides to tell the King and on its journey meets other animals (mostly other fowl) which join it in the quest. After this point, there are many endings. In the most familiar, a fox invites them to its lair and then eats them all. Alternatively, the last one, usually Cocky Lockey, survives long enough to warn the chick, who escapes. In others all are rescued and finally speak to the King.\n\nIn most retellings, the animals have rhyming names, commonly Chicken Licken or Chicken Little, Henny Penny or Hen-Len, Cocky Locky, Ducky Lucky or Ducky Daddles, Drakey Lakey, Goosey Loosey or Goosey Poosey, Gander Lander, Turkey Lurkey and Foxy Loxy or Foxy Woxy.\n\nThe moral to be drawn changes, depending on the version. Where there is a \"happy ending\", the moral is not to be a \"Chicken\" but to have courage. In other versions where the birds are eaten by the fox, the fable is interpreted as a warning not to believe everything one is told.\n\nIn the United States, the most common name for the story is \"Chicken Little\", as attested by illustrated books for children dating from the early 19th century. In Britain and its other former colonies, it is best known as \"Henny Penny\" and \"Chicken Licken\", titles by which it also went in the United States.\n\nThe story was part of the oral folk tradition and only began to appear in print after the Brothers Grimm had set a European example with their collection of German tales in the early years of the 19th century. One of the earliest to collect tales from Scandinavian sources was Just Mathias Thiele, who in 1823 published an early version of the Henny Penny story in the Danish language. The names of the characters there are Kylling Kluk, Høne Pøne, Hane Pane, And Svand, Gaase Paase, and Ræv Skræv. In Thiele's untitled account, a nut falls on Kylling Kluk's back and knocks him over. He then goes to each of the other characters, proclaiming that \"I think all the world is falling\" and setting them all running. The fox Ræv Skræv joins in the flight and, when they reach the wood, counts them over from behind and eats them one by one. Eventually the tale was translated into English by Benjamin Thorpe after several other versions had appeared.\n\nOnce the story began to appear in the English language, the titles by which they went varied considerably and have continued to do so. John Greene Chandler (1815-1879), an illustrator and wood engraver from Petersham, Massachusetts, published an illustrated children's book titled \"The Remarkable Story of Chicken Little\" in 1840. In this American version of the story, the characters' names are Chicken Little, Hen-Pen, Duck-Luck, Goose-Loose, and Fox-Lox; Chicken Little is frightened by a leaf falling on her tail.\nA Scots version of the tale is found in Robert Chambers's \"Popular Rhymes, Fireside Stories, and Amusements of Scotland\" of 1842. It appeared among the \"Fireside Nursery Stories\" and was titled \"The hen and her fellow travellers\". The characters included Henny Penny, Cocky Locky, Ducky Daddles, Goosie Poosie, and an unnamed \"tod\" (fox). Henny Penny became convinced that \"the lifts were faun\" (the heavens were falling) when a pea fell on her head.\n\nIn 1849, a \"very different\" English version was published under the title \"The Story of Chicken-Licken\" by Joseph Orchard Halliwell. In this Chicken-licken was startled when \"an acorn fell on her bald pate\" and encounters the characters Hen-len, Cock-lock, Duck-luck, Drake-lake, Goose-loose, Gander-lander, Turkey-lurkey and Fox-lox.\n\nIt was followed in 1850 by \"The wonderful story of Henny Penny\" in Joseph Cundall's compilation, \"The Treasury of pleasure books for young children\". Each story there is presented as if it were a separate book, and in this case had two illustrations by Harrison Weir. In reality the story is a repetition of the Chambers narration in standard English, except that the dialect phrase \"so she gaed, and she gaed, and she gaed\" is retained and the cause of panic is mistranslated as \"the clouds are falling\".\n\nBenjamin Thorpe's translation of Thiele's Danish story was published in 1853 and given the title \"The Little Chicken Kluk and his companions\" Thorpe describes the tale there as \"a pendant to the Scottish story…printed in Chambers\" (see above) and gives the characters approximately the same names as in Chambers.\n\nComparing the different versions, we find that in the Scots and English stories the animals want \"to tell the king\" that the skies are falling; while in the American story, as in the Danish, they are not given any specific motivation. In all versions they are eaten by the fox, although in different circumstances.\n\nThe name \"Chicken Little\" — and the fable's central phrase, \"The sky is falling!\" — have been applied to people accused of being unreasonably afraid, or those trying to incite an unreasonable fear in those around them.\n\nThe first use of the name \"Chicken Little\" to \"one who warns of or predicts calamity, especially without justification\" recorded by the Merriam-Webster Dictionary is in 1895, but idiomatic use of the name significantly predates that attestation. In fact, this usage is recorded in the United States very soon after the publication of Chandler's illustrated children's book in 1840. Already, in 1842, a journal article about the Government of Haiti referred to \"Chicken Little\" in an offhand manner. An \"oration\" delivered to the city of Boston on July 4, 1844, contains the passage: \n\nFear mongering — whether justified or not — can sometimes elicit a societal response called \"Chicken Little syndrome\", described as \"inferring catastrophic conclusions possibly resulting in paralysis\". It has also been defined as \"a sense of despair or passivity which blocks the audience from actions\". The term began appearing in the 1950s and the phenomenon has been noted in many different societal contexts.\n\nWalt Disney Pictures has made two animated versions of the story. The first was \"Chicken Little\", a 1943 animated short released during World War II as one of a series produced at the request of the U.S. government for the purpose of discrediting Nazism. It tells a variant of the parable in which Foxy Loxy takes the advice of a book on psychology (on the original 1943 cut, it is \"Mein Kampf\") by striking the least intelligent first. Dim-witted Chicken Little is convinced by him that the sky is falling and whips the farmyard into mass hysteria, which the unscrupulous fox manipulates for his own benefit. The dark comedy is used as an allegory for the idea that fear-mongering weakens the war effort and costs lives. It is also one of the versions of the story in which Chicken Little appears as a character distinct from Henny Penny.\n\nThe second Disney film was the very loosely adapted \"Chicken Little\", released in 2005 as a 3D computer-animated feature. It is an updated science fiction sequel to the original fable in which Chicken Little is partly justified in his fears. In this version, Foxy Loxy is changed from a male to a female, and from the main antagonist to a local bully. Another film adaptation was the animated TV episode \"Henny Penny\" (1999), which was part of the series \"\". In this modern update, the story is given a satirical and political interpretation. \n\nThere have also been a number of musical settings. American composer Vincent Persichetti used the fable as the plot of his only opera \"The Sibyl: A Parable of Chicken Little\" (Parable XX), op. 135 (1976), which premiered in 1985. On the sitcom \"The Golden Girls\", there was a 1991 episode in which the characters perform a short musical based on the fable (here titled \"Henny Penny\") at a school recital. In 1998, there was Joy Chaitin and Sarah Stevens-Estabrook's equally light-hearted musical version of the fable, \"Henny Penny\". Designed for between six and a hundred junior actors, it has additional characters as optional extras: Funky Monkey, Sheepy Weepy, Mama Llama, Pandy Handy and Giraffy Laughy (plus an aggressive oak-tree).\n\nIn Singapore, a more involved musical was performed in 2005. This was Brian Seward's \" The Acorn - the true story of Chicken Licken\". It is a tale of mixed motivations as certain creatures (including some among the 'good guys') take advantage of the panic caused by Chicken Licken. In 2007 American singer and composer Gary Bachlund set the text of Margaret Free's reading version of \"Chicken Little\" (\"The Primer\", 1910) for high voice and piano. In his note to the score Bachlund makes it clear that he intends a reference to alarmism and its tragic consequences.\n\nThere are many novels, films, CDs and songs titled \"The Sky is Falling\", but the majority refer to the idiomatic use of the phrase rather than to the fable from which it derives. The following are some lyrics which genuinely refer or allude to the story:\n\n\nA very early example containing the basic motif and many of the elements of the tale is some 25 centuries old and appears in the Buddhist scriptures as the \"Daddabha Jataka\" (J 322). In it, the Buddha, on hearing about some particular religious practices, comments that there is no special merit in them, but rather that they are \"like the noise the hare heard.\" He then tells the story of a hare disturbed by a falling fruit who believes that the earth is coming to an end. The hare starts a stampede among the other animals until a lion halts them, investigates the cause of the panic and restores calm. The fable teaches the necessity for deductive reasoning and subsequent investigation.\n\nThe Tibetan version of the Jataka tale has been told in rhyme by Australian author Ursula Dubosarsky in her book \"The Terrible Plop\" (2009), which has since been dramatised, using the original title \"Plop!\". In this, the animal stampede is halted by a bear, rather than a lion. The ending has been changed from the Tibetan original as well.\n\nThere also exists a Br'er Rabbit story that is closer to the Eastern versions. In this story, Br'er Rabbit initiates the panic but does not take part in the mass flight, although Br'er Fox does. In this case it is Br'er Terrapin that leads the animals back to question Br'er Rabbit.\n\n"}
{"id": "21909149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21909149", "title": "Christopher N. L. Brooke", "text": "Christopher N. L. Brooke\n\nChristopher Nugent Lawrence Brooke (23 June 1927 – 27 December 2015) was a British medieval historian. From 1974 to 1994 he was Dixie Professor of Ecclesiastical History at the University of Cambridge.\n\nBrooke was the son of Zachary Nugent Brooke (1883–1946) and his wife Rosa Grace Brooke (1888–1964). Following schooling at Winchester College, Brooke undertook his undergraduate work at Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge, where he studied with David Knowles.\n\nBrooke taught at Caius from 1977 to 1994, where he remained a life fellow. He held the position of Dixie Professor of Ecclesiastical History at Cambridge and before becoming a professor emeritus.\n\nBrooke died on 27 December 2015 at the age of 88.\n\nIt was at Cambridge that Brooke met his future wife, fellow medievalist Rosalind Brooke (née Clark) in 1951. She died in 2014.\n\nAmong Brooke's publications are:\n"}
{"id": "1873480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1873480", "title": "Communist Party of Malaya/Revolutionary Faction", "text": "Communist Party of Malaya/Revolutionary Faction\n\nThe Communist Party of Malaya/Revolutionary Faction was a splinter group of the Communist Party of Malaya. The CPM/RF was engaged in armed struggle. It was founded in September 1970, when the 8th regiment at Sadao Camp broke off from the Communist Party of Malaya, under leadership of Huang Yijiang. In 1983, merged with the Communist Party of Malaya/Marxist–Leninist to form the Malaysian Communist Party in 1983.\n\n"}
{"id": "7717693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7717693", "title": "Dale Carpenter", "text": "Dale Carpenter\n\nDale Carpenter (born December 27, 1966) is an American legal commentator and Professor of Law at the SMU Dedman School of Law. He formerly served as the Earl R. Larson Professor of Civil Rights and Civil Liberties Law at the University of Minnesota Law School for sixteen years. As a professor, Carpenter specializes in constitutional law, the First Amendment, Due Process and Equal Protection clauses, sexual orientation and the law, and commercial law.\n\nCarpenter is a frequent speaker on issues surrounding same-sex marriage. Outside of traditional legal academic circles, he also wrote a regular column, \"OutRight\", for several gay publications across the United States. He is a regular contributor to the Independent Gay Forum as well as the weblog \"The Volokh Conspiracy\" and is regularly cited in the American media.\n\nCarpenter teaches and writes in the areas of constitutional law, the First Amendment, and sexual orientation and the law. In 2007, he was appointed the Earl R. Larson Professor of Civil Rights and Civil Liberties Law. He was the Julius E. Davis Professor of Law for 2006-07 and the Vance K. Opperman Research Scholar for 2003-04. Professor Carpenter was chosen the Stanley V. Kinyon Teacher of the Year for 2003-04 and 2005–06 and was the Tenured Teacher of the Year for 2006-07. Since 2004, he has served as an editor of \"Constitutional Commentary\".\n\nCarpenter received his B.A. degree in history, \"magna cum laude\", from Yale College in 1989. He received his Juris Doctor, with honors, from the University of Chicago Law School in 1992. At the University of Chicago he was Editor-in-Chief of the \"University of Chicago Law Review\". He received both the D. Francis Bustin Prize for excellence in legal scholarship and the John M. Olin Foundation Scholarship for Law & Economics. Carpenter clerked for The Honorable Edith H. Jones of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit from 1992 to 1993. After his clerkship, he practiced at Vinson & Elkins in Houston and at Howard, Rice, Nemerovski, Canady, Falk & Rabkin in San Francisco. He is a member of the state bars of Texas and California.\n\nHe is a frequent television, radio, and print commentator on constitutional law, the First Amendment, and sexual orientation and the law.\n\nCarpenter considers himself a libertarian-leaning conservative. He is noted for his scholarship on same-sex rights in the United States. He co-authored an \"Amicus\" brief for \"Lawrence v. Texas\" (2003) on behalf of the Republican Unity Coalition, a gay-straight Republican organization.\n\nHe won a Lambda Literary Award in 2013 for \"Flagrant Conduct: The Story of Lawrence v. Texas\", in the category of LGBT Non-Fiction.\n\nIn July, 2016, Professor Carpenter joined nearly two-dozen other academics and politicians signing a letter urging Donald Trump supporters to reconsider their likely votes in the November 2016 election. Other signatories to the letter included David Blankenhorn, founder of the Institute for American Values, Professor John J. DiIulio, Jr. of the University of Pennsylvania, and former Republican congressman Mickey Edwards.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22443992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22443992", "title": "Feminism in the United States", "text": "Feminism in the United States\n\nFeminism in the United States refers to the collection of movements and ideologies aimed at defining, establishing, and defending a state of equal political, economic, cultural, and social rights for women in the United States. Feminism has had a massive influence on American politics. Feminism in the United States is often divided chronologically into first-wave, second-wave, third-wave, and fourth-wave feminism.\n\nAs of the most recent Gender Gap Index measurement of countries by the World Economic Forum in 2017, the United States is ranked 49th on gender equality.\n\nThe first wave of feminism in the United States began with the Seneca Falls Convention, the first women's rights convention, held at the Wesleyan Chapel in Seneca Falls, New York, on July 19 and 20, 1848.\n\nThis Convention was inspired by the fact that in 1840, when Elizabeth Cady Stanton met Lucretia Mott at the World Anti-Slavery Convention in London, the conference refused to seat Mott and other women delegates from America because of their gender. Stanton, the young bride of an antislavery agent, and Mott, a Quaker preacher and veteran of reform, talked then of calling a convention to address the condition of women.\n\nAn estimated three hundred people attended the convention, including notables Lucretia Mott and Frederick Douglass. At the conclusion, 68 women and 32 men signed the Declaration of Sentiments, which was written by Elizabeth Cady Stanton and the M'Clintock family.\n\nThe style and format of the Declaration of Sentiments was that of the Declaration of Independence. For example, the Declaration of Sentiments stated, \"We hold these truths to be self evident, that all men and women are created equal and endowed by their creator with certain inalienable rights.\" The Declaration further stated, \"The history of mankind is a history of repeated injuries and usurpations on the part of man towards woman.\"\n\nThe declaration went on to specify female grievances in regard to the laws denying married women ownership of wages, money, and property (all of which they were required to turn over to their husbands; laws requiring this, in effect throughout America, were called coverture laws), women's lack of access to education and professional careers, and the lowly status accorded women in most churches. Furthermore, the Declaration declared that women should have the right to vote.\n\nSome of the participants at Seneca Falls organized the Rochester Women's Rights Convention two weeks later on August 2 in Rochester, New York. It was followed by other state and local conventions in Ohio, Pennsylvania, and New York. The first National Woman's Rights Convention was held in Worcester, Massachusetts in 1850. Women's rights conventions were held regularly from 1850 until the start of the Civil War.\n\nThe women's suffrage movement began with the 1848 Seneca Falls Convention; many of the activists became politically aware during the abolitionist movement. The movement reorganized after the Civil War, gaining experienced campaigners, many of whom had worked for prohibition in the Women's Christian Temperance Union. By the end of the 19th century only a few western states had granted women full voting rights, though women had made significant legal victories, gaining rights in areas such as property and child custody.\n\nIn 1866, Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony formed the American Equal Rights Association, an organization for white and black women and men dedicated to the goal of suffrage for all. In 1868 the Fourteenth Amendment was passed, this was the first Amendment to ever specify the voting population as \"male\". In 1869 the women's rights movement split into two factions as a result of disagreements over the Fourteenth and soon-to-be-passed Fifteenth Amendments, with the two factions not reuniting until 1890. Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony formed the more radical, New York-based National Woman Suffrage Association (NWSA). Lucy Stone, Henry Blackwell, and Julia Ward Howe organized the more conservative American Woman Suffrage Association (AWSA), which was centered in Boston. In 1870 the Fifteenth Amendment enfranchised black men. NWSA refused to work for its ratification, arguing, instead, that it be \"scrapped\" in favor of a Sixteenth Amendment providing universal suffrage. Frederick Douglass broke with Stanton and Anthony over NWSA's position.\n\nIn 1869 Wyoming became the first territory or state in America to grant women suffrage. In 1870 Louisa Ann Swain became the first woman in the United States to vote in a general election. She cast her ballot on September 6, 1870, in Laramie, Wyoming.\n\nFrom 1870 to 1875 several women, including Virginia Louisa Minor, Victoria Woodhull, and Myra Bradwell, attempted to use the Fourteenth Amendment in the courts to secure the vote (Minor and Woodhull) or the right to practice law (Bradwell), and they were all unsuccessful. In 1872 Susan B. Anthony was arrested and brought to trial in Rochester, New York, for attempting to vote for Ulysses S. Grant in the presidential election; she was convicted and fined $100 and the costs of her prosecution but refused to pay. At the same time, Sojourner Truth appeared at a polling booth in Battle Creek, Michigan, demanding a ballot; she was turned away. Also in 1872, Victoria Woodhull became the first woman to run for president, although she could not vote and only received a few votes, losing to Ulysses S. Grant. She was nominated to run by the Equal Rights Party, and advocated the 8-hour work day, graduated income tax, social welfare programs, and profit sharing, among other positions. In 1874 the Woman's Christian Temperance Union (WCTU) was founded by Annie Wittenmyer to work for the prohibition of alcohol; with Frances Willard at its head (starting in 1876), the WCTU also became an important force in the fight for women's suffrage. In 1878 a woman suffrage amendment was first introduced in the United States Congress, but it did not pass. In 1920, the Nineteenth Amendment was ratified, giving white women the right to vote; the first wave of feminism is considered to have ended with that victory.\n\nMargaret Higgins Sanger, was one of the first American birth control activists. She was also a sex educator, writer, and nurse. She popularized the term \"birth control\", opened the first birth control clinic in the United States in 1916, and established organizations that evolved into the Planned Parenthood Federation of America.\n\nSecond-wave feminism in the United States began in the early 1960s. In 1963 Betty Friedan, influenced by \"The Second Sex\", wrote the bestselling book \"The Feminine Mystique\" in which she explicitly objected to the mainstream media image of women, stating that placing women at home limited their possibilities, and wasted talent and potential. The perfect nuclear family image depicted and strongly marketed at the time, she wrote, did not reflect happiness and was rather degrading for women. This book is widely credited with having begun second-wave feminism in the United States.\n\nAlso in 1963, freelance journalist Gloria Steinem gained widespread popularity among feminists after a diary she authored while working undercover as a Playboy Bunny waitress at the Playboy Club was published as a two-part feature in the May and June issues of \"Show\". The feature was \"A Bunny's Tale\" (Part I and Part II.) Steinem alleged the club was mistreating its waitresses in order to gain male customers and exploited the Playboy Bunnies as symbols of male chauvinism, noting that the club's manual instructed the Bunnies that \"there are many pleasing ways they can employ to stimulate the club's liquor volume.\" By 1968, Steinem had become arguably the most influential figure in the movement and support for legalized abortion and free daycares had become the two leading objectives for feminists.\n\nThe movement grew with legal victories such as the Equal Pay Act of 1963, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (which banned sex discrimination in employment), and the \"Griswold v. Connecticut\" Supreme Court ruling of 1965 (which legalized birth control for married couples). In 1966 Betty Friedan joined other women and men to found the National Organization for Women (NOW); Friedan would be named as the organization's first president. Amongst the most significant legal victories of the movement in the late 1960s after the formation of NOW in 1966 were a 1967 Executive Order extending full affirmative action rights to women, \"Eisenstadt v. Baird\" (1972), in which the Supreme Court ruled that unmarried people had the same right to birth control as married people, and the legalization of no-fault divorce (although not legalized in all states until 2010).\n\nThe movement picked up more victories in the 1970s. The Title X Family Planning Program, officially known as Public Law 91-572 or \"Population Research and Voluntary Family Planning Programs\" was enacted under President Richard Nixon in 1970 as part of the Public Health Service Act; it is the only federal grant program dedicated solely to providing individuals with comprehensive family planning and related preventive health services. The Supreme Court case \"Reed v. Reed\" (1971), was the case in which the Supreme Court for the first time applied the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to strike down a law that discriminated against women. Also, while the Equal Pay Act of 1963 did not originally cover executives, administrators, outside salespeople, and professionals, the Education Amendments of 1972 amended it so that it does. Also in 1972, the Supreme Court case \"Eisenstadt v Baird\" legalized birth control for unmarried people. Also that year Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 illegalized sex discrimination in public schools and public colleges. In 1973 the \"Roe v Wade\" Supreme Court case legalized abortion. In 1974 the Equal Credit Opportunity Act illegalized sex discrimination by creditors against credit applicants. Also in 1974 sex was added as a protected class under the Fair Housing Act, thus illegalizing sex discrimination in housing. Also in 1974 the Women's Educational Equity Act was enacted. The criminalization of marital rape in the United States started in the mid-1970s and by 1993 marital rape became a crime in all 50 states, under at least one section of the sexual offense codes. In 1978 the Pregnancy Discrimination Act was enacted; it is a United States federal statute which amended Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to \"prohibit sex discrimination on the basis of pregnancy.\"\n\nA major disappointment of the second-wave feminist movement in the United States was President Nixon's 1972 veto of the Comprehensive Child Development Bill of 1972, which would have provided a multibillion-dollar national day care system.\n\nThe feminist movement in the late 1970s, led by NOW, briefly attempted a program to help older divorced and widowed women. Many widows were ineligible for Social Security benefits, few divorcees actually received any alimony, and after a career as a housewife, few had skills to enter the labor force. The program, however, encountered sharp criticism from young activists who gave priority to poor minority women rather than the middle class. By 1980, NOW downplayed the program as it focused almost exclusively on the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA). Phyllis Schlafly, the conservative leader, moved into the vacuum. She denounced the feminists for abandoning older middle-class widows and divorcees in need, and warned that ERA would equalize the laws for the benefit of men, stripping protections that older women urgently needed.\n\nThe main disappointment of the second wave feminist movement in the United States was the failure to ratify the federal Equal Rights Amendment. It states, \"Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex.\" The deadline for ratification of the Equal Rights Amendment expired in 1982.\n\nAs well, though the United States signed the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women in 1980, it has never ratified it.\n\nMany historians view the second wave feminist era in America as ending in the early 1980s with the Feminist Sex Wars, a split within the movement over issues such as sexuality and pornography. These disputes ushered in the era of third-wave feminism in the early 1990s.\n\nThird-wave feminism in the United States began in the early 1990s. In 1991, Anita Hill accused Clarence Thomas, a man nominated to the United States Supreme Court, of sexual harassment. Thomas denied the accusations and, after extensive debate, the United States Senate voted 52–48 in favor of Thomas. In 1992, in response to the Anita Hill sexual harassment case, American feminist Rebecca Walker published an article in Ms. Magazine entitled \"Becoming the Third Wave\" in which she stated, \"I am not a post-feminism feminist. I am the third-wave,\" which coined the term \"third wave\". Also in 1992 Third Wave Direct Action Corporation was founded by the American feminists Rebecca Walker and Shannon Liss as a multiracial, multicultural, multi-issue organization to support young activists. The organization's initial mission was to fill a void in young women's leadership and to mobilize young people to become more involved socially and politically in their communities.\n\nAlso in the early 1990s, the riot grrrl movement began in Olympia, Washington and Washington, D.C.; it sought to give women the power to control their voices and artistic expressions. However, Riot grrrl's emphasis on universal female identity and separatism often appears more closely allied with second-wave feminism than with the third wave. Third-wave feminists sought to question, reclaim, and redefine the ideas, words, and media that have transmitted ideas about gender, gender roles, womanhood, beauty, and sexuality, among other things. Third-wave feminism saw many new feminist icons such as Madonna, Queen Latifah, Angelina Jolie, Emma Watson, Beyoncé, and Lady Gaga, as well as fictional characters such as Buffy and Mulan. Third-wave feminists also used the Internet and other modern technology to enhance their movement, which allowed for information and organization to reach a larger audience. This larger audience also expanded to many male celebrities such as Aziz Ansari and Leonardo DiCaprio.\n\nThrough the 1980s and 1990s, this trend continued as musicologists like Susan McClary, Marcia Citron and Ruth Solie began to consider the cultural reasons for the marginalizing of women from the received body of work. Concepts such as music as gendered discourse; professionalism; reception of women's music; examination of the sites of music production; relative wealth and education of women; popular music studies in relation to women's identity; patriarchal ideas in music analysis; and notions of gender and difference are among the themes examined during this time.[160]\n\nFourth-wave feminism refers to a resurgence of interest in feminism that began around 2012 and is associated with the use of social media. According to feminist scholar Prudence Chamberlain, the focus of the fourth wave is justice for women and opposition to sexual harassment and violence against women. Its essence, she writes, is \"incredulity that certain attitudes can still exist\".\n\nFourth-wave feminism is \"defined by technology\", according to Kira Cochrane, and is characterized particularly by the use of Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, YouTube, Tumblr, and blogs such as Feministing to challenge misogyny and further gender equality.\n\nIssues that fourth-wave feminists focus on include street and workplace harassment, campus sexual assault and rape culture. Scandals involving the harassment, abuse, and murder of women and girls have galvanized the movement. In the United States, these have included the Bill Cosby allegations, the 2014 Isla Vista killings, and the 2017 Harvey Weinstein allegations.\n\nExamples of fourth-wave feminist campaigns in the United States include \"Mattress Performance\" and \"10 Hours of Walking in NYC as a Woman\".\n\nCritics of mainstream feminist discourse point to the white-washed historical narrative that omits and/or minimizes the roles played by women of color within and without the feminist movement, as well as the differing obstacles faced by women of color. Audre Lorde, Caribbean-American feminist and essayist, stated: \"What woman here is so enamored of her own oppression that she cannot see her heel print upon another woman's face? What woman's terms of oppression have become precious and necessary to her as a ticket into the fold of the righteous, away from the cold winds of self-scrutiny? ... We welcome all women who can meet us, face to face, beyond objectification and beyond guilt.\"\n\nThese historical omissions are particularly evident in accounts on First-Wave feminism which often ignores the roles played by fundamental activists such as Ida Bell Wells-Barnett. Wells-Barnett was a key figure in the early feminist movement, her form of radical protest politics \"recognized the limits of racial uplift and acknowledged the power of political action in the form of direct protest.\" For most of her career, Wells-Barnett faced opposition from white feminist leaders such as Rebecca Latimer Felton and Frances Willard, the first woman to serve in the United States Senate and a former president of the Woman's Christian Temperance Union respectively, who saw the feminist movement as an Anglo Saxon pursuit and built their rhetoric on the ideology of white supremacy: \"The Anglo-Saxon race,\" Willard wrote, \"will never submit to be dominated by the Negro so long as his altitude reaches no higher than the personal liberty of the saloon.\" Wells-Barnett's radical activist tactics were later adopted by women's organizations and feminist movements of the early period who recognized the utility of radicalism in achieving legislative change. However, Wells-Barnett's achievements and influences on the First-Wave of the feminist movement are absent in mainstream discussions.\n\nThese criticisms stretch into second- and third-wave feminism, which is dominated by narratives minimizing the role of women of color while celebrating achievements as a whole through the gaze of white female leaders. Consequently, by the 1970s and 1980s, African-American women, such as bell hooks, developed a social consciousness by publicly voicing dissatisfaction with black women's representation in feminist discourse.\n\nIn 1989, Kimberlé Williams Crenshaw, a Black scholar, wrote the essay \"Demarginalizing the Intersection of Race and Sex: A Black Feminist Critique of Antidiscrimination Doctrine, Feminist Theory and Antiracist Politics\" and from there she came up with the term Intersectionality. Intersectionality is the interconnected nature of social categorizations such as race, class, and gender as they apply to a given individual or group, regarded as creating overlapping and interdependent systems of discrimination and disadvantages. Crenshaw argued that Black women are discriminated against in ways that don't often fit in the legal category of either \"racism\" or \"sexism\" because it's a combination of the two categories. Intersectionality was created when Crenshaw realized several employment discrimination-based lawsuits and wanted Black women and women of color to have a way to fight back. One such case was DeGraffenreid v. General Motors who was filed by five Black women in 1976. The General Motors Corporation had never hired a Black woman for its workforce until 1964 because this was the year of the Civil rights Act was passed through Congress. Black women who were hired after 1970 lost their jobs quickly because of the 1973-1975 recession, black women who filed the lawsuit argued that they were last to get hired and the first to get fired. The court refused to allow these women to combine their sex-based discrimination and their race-based discrimination. Crenshaw observed the verdict from this ruling and noticed that black women had to choose if their discrimination was either based on gender or race, but not both. She argued that Black women are discriminated against in ways that don't fit into society's standards of oppression of either \"racism\" or \"sexism,\" and that's why intersectionality was needed to identify this form of oppression. Crenshaw stated: \"The goal of this activity should be to facilitate the inclusion of marginalized groups for whom it can be said: \"When they enter, we all enter.\" Intersectionality allowed Black women and women of color the platform they need to bring awareness to their issues in an effort for equality.\n\nThere are some people who do support the concept of intersectionality, claiming that it causes more harm for Black women and women of color to fight for equality. People like James Bliss stated: \"intersectionality appears as a victim of its own success, which is to say its success is the very mechanism of its victimization.\" Bliss claims that Black women who support intersectionality are only subjecting themselves to a more oppressed image and because of this, are having to fight for both the rights as women and the rights African Americans simultaneously.He also stated: \"Intersectionality has largely been rendered as a crude topographical instrument, a method for locating oneself at the intersection of multiple discrete identities or more of oppression.\" He compares how Black women in Back feminism only fought back against white-washed feminism, but women in Intersectionality are fighting for multiple causes simultaneously and the cause gets lost in the process. His main argument is that fighting for the rights of multiple identities at the same time is not an easy goal to accomplish.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15188422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15188422", "title": "Fourth Way enneagram", "text": "Fourth Way enneagram\n\nThe Fourth Way enneagram is a figure published in 1949 in \"In Search of the Miraculous\" by P.D. Ouspensky, and an integral part of the Fourth Way esoteric system associated with George Gurdjieff. The term \"enneagram\" derives from two Greek words, \"ennea\" (nine) and \"gramma\" (something written or drawn).\n\nThe enneagram is a nine-pointed figure usually inscribed within a circle. Within the circle is a triangle connecting points 9, 3 and 6. The inscribed figure resembling a web connects the other six points in a cyclic figure 1-4-2-8-5-7. This number is derived from or corresponds to the recurring decimal .142857 = 1/7. These six points together with the point numbered 9 are said to represent the main stages of any complete process, and can be related to the notes of a musical octave, 9 being equivalent to \"Doh\" and 1 to \"Re\" etc. The points numbered 3 and 6 are said to represent \"shock points\" which affect the way a process develops. The internal lines between the points; that is, the three-point figure and the six-point figure, are said to show certain non-obvious connections, although here very little elucidation is offered.\n\nAs reported by P. D. Ouspensky the enneagram was introduced by George Gurdjieff to his study groups in Saint Petersburg and Moscow in 1916. Ouspensky records this original explication in his book of Gurdjieff's teaching In Search of the Miraculous where the enneagram appears as Figure 44 and in further diagrams. It was presented as an ancient secret being released for the first time, the truth behind for example the philosopher's stone. Ouspensky quotes Gurdjieff as saying; \"The knowledge of the enneagram has for a very long time been preserved in secret and if it now is, so to speak, made available to all, it is only in an incomplete and theoretical form without instruction from a man who knows\". Gurdjieff also remarked \"In order to understand the enneagram it must be thought of as in motion, as moving. A motionless enneagram is a dead symbol, the living symbol is in motion\"\nAlthough no earlier record of the Fourth Way version of the enneagram can be cited, it has been proposed that it may derive from, or be cognate to the reversed Kabbalistic Tree of Life as used in “Etude sur les origines de la nature du Zohar”, by S. Karppe, Paris, 1901, pp. 387, the Great Magical Arcanum of Eliphas Levi which is also composed of a circle triangle and hexad, the Magical Acanum of Helena Blavatsky in \"Isis Unveiled\" (1877), and Leonhard Euler's nine-point circle. There has also been speculation that it may be related to the Pythagorean Tetractys, which also combines the numbers 3 and 7. Renaissance Hermeticism (which used an enneagram of three interlocking triangles, also called a nonagram) or a nine-pointed figure used by the Christian medieval philosopher Ramon Llull.\n\nIdries Shah, a populariser of Sufism, has claimed that the enneagram has a Sufi provenance and that it has also been long known in coded form disguised as an octagram. Another claim to a Sufi provenance is offered by the Sufi Enneagram website. The archives of the Naqshbandi Sufi order of Daghestan have been claimed to provide an account of a meeting between Gurdjieff and Shaykh Sharafuddin Daghestani in which the secret of the nine points was transmitted to Gurdjieff.\n\nRobin Amis claims an Orthodox Christian origin, claiming that both Gurdijeff and Ouspensky developed their teaching with insights gained from visits to Mount Athos.\n\nAnother proposal suggests the diagram is a map of the chakras from yogic schools.\n\nThe enneagram according to Gurdjieff shows the \"Law of Seven\" and the \"Law of Three\" united and so some explanation of these laws is necessary here.\n\nThe Law of Seven or law of octaves, according to which phenomena evolves in seven steps; and the Law of Three, according to which phenomena are produced by three forces, are presented by Gurdjieff as global laws appearing on all scales and essential to his cosmology. This cosmology offers a view of how the world operates said to derive from alchemy and more ancient sources, and to complement or complete modern experimental science rather than to contradict it. According to this cosmology everything is material, including consciousness and spirit, and all matter can be assigned a \"density\"; consciousness and spirit for example having lower \"densities\" (and therefore higher \"vibrations\") than,for example, water while, for example, rock has a higher \"density\" and lower \"vibration\" than water, and so on.\n\nThe diatonic scale in music is said to be an ancient application of the Law of Seven and a convenient way to study it. The major musical scale is used with short intervals at mi-fa and ti-do (Ouspensky refers to Ti as \"Si\" and So as \"Sol\" and the diagrams on this page reflect his usage). In other words if one thinks of a standard musical keyboard and takes for example middle C as Do then the following six white keys, DEFGAB will represent the rest of the octave, and the next white key will be the higher C. There will be black keys between each of the white keys, except between E and F (the mi-fa interval) and between B and the higher C (the si-do interval)\n\nIn any process described in terms of the Law of Seven, the Mi-Fa interval and the Ti-Do interval are said to be shock points where outside help is needed if the octave is to continue to develop as intended. A failure to recognize this in terms of human projects is said to be a major reason why things go wrong in general. The octave of electromagnetic radiation that appears as visible light, and the periodic table are said to be examples of physical phenomena where the underlying Law of Seven can be detected (although no detail is offered here). It should be noted that the musical scale Gurdjieff is quoted as using is not the modern standard musical scale but Ptolemy's intense diatonic scale, a just intonation scale associated with the Renaissance composer and musical theorist Gioseffo Zarlino.\n\nThe Law of Three holds that three forces act on any event, which can be called Active, Passive, and Neutralizing forces, or simply First, Second, and Third forces respectively. These three forces can appear in any order, 123 for example or 312, giving 6 possible \"triads\" of forces describing 6 very broad types of event. Humanity is said to be \"third force blind\", to have difficulty recognizing the third force, which may appear to us in the guise of a result or of a background environment.\"People cannot perceive the third force directly any more than they can spatially perceive the 'fourth dimension'\" Gurdjieff is quoted as saying. In terms of the Law of Seven one of the three forces appears as the \"do\" of the octave and the other two appear as the \"shocks\" (which also function as the do of new octaves) The explanation of these laws in In Search of the Miraculous is largely in abstract terms, with some detail given for the so-called \"food diagram\" described below and the cosmic octave, the Ray of Creation.\n\nThe enneagram shows the Law of Seven and the Law of Three in a single symbol with the three forces joined in a triangle at the 3,6 and 9 points, and in addition six inner lines (hexad) following the 1,4,2,8,5,7,1... sequence. The meaning of these six inner lines is not, by Ouspensky's account, made clear by Gurdjieff. One shock point is shown on the enneagram at point 3, which is the Mi-Fa interval where it might be expected. However the other is at point 6, at the So-La interval. It might have been expected to be at the Ti-Do interval, and Gurdjieff is presented as offering this apparent mistake as a mystery to be solved. Ouspensky offers the solution that the shock at point 3 itself develops as an octave to point 6, where its own Mi-Fa interval occurs. This second octave cannot develop unless it has a shock at its own Mi-Fa, and this is the shock which in fact occurs at point 6. The example of the \"food diagram\" enneagram summarized below might clarify this.\n\nAs the enneagram figure is a symbol said to represent the \"law of seven\" and the \"law of three\" in unity, therefore, according to this view, the figure can be used to describe any natural whole phenomenon, cosmos, process in life or any other piece of knowledge. The figure is the central organizing glyph of the Fourth Way's view of the material world which Gurdjieff is quoted by Ouspensky as relating to alchemy.\n\nThe most detailed example of how this is said to work, given in \"In Search of the Miraculous\", is an explanation of how Gurdjieff believed inputs to the human body (\"food\", \"air\" and \"impressions\", collectively regarded as types of food) are processed into the so-called \"higher substances\" necessary for higher consciousness to function. In Gurdjieff's view \"everything is material\"; consciousness and spirit are to be regarded as aspects of matter, although more refined or of a \"higher vibration\" than perceptible aspects. This proposition is an essential basis for Gurdjieff's view of the evolution of food into the \"higher substances\" necessary for higher consciousness; briefly summarized below from the account in \"In Search of the Miraculous\". The Fourth Way, a later collection of Ouspensky's talks, is a supplementary source for the same material.\n\nAt point 9 ordinary food (beginning as Do) is eaten and enters the body and digestion begins. The \"density\" of human food is assigned a number, 768.\n\nAt point 1 it is said to be processed in the gut as Re and is refined to a \"density\" of 384 the same \"density\" as water.\n\nAt point 2 the food is further refined to Mi and assigned a density of 192, the same density as air. It is ready to enter the blood stream.\n\nAt point 3, Mi-Fa, occurs a \"shock\". Air can provide this shock because it also is of density 192, and furthermore this air enters as a new Do\n\nAt point 4 the original food octave is at \"Fa\" but the new air octave is at Re. They are both in the bloodstream at \"density\" 96, the \"density\" of hormones and vitamins and rarefied gases and animal magnetism \"and so on\". At this point we reach the end of \"what is regarded as matter by our physics and chemistry\" It should be remembered that Gurdjieff is here speaking in 1916.\n\nThe substances or energies at point 5 are assigned a \"density\" of 48 and used in thought. These are the So or \"Sol\" part of the original food octave and the Mi part of the air octave.\n\nPoint 6 being where \"impressions\", regarded as a type of food, are said to enter the body. \"Impressions\" are said to also have a \"density\" of 48, and can serve as a shock if they are intensified by some such means as the exercise of \"self-remembering\" taught by Gurdjieff, thus allowing the air and impressions octaves to proceed. Otherwise only the ordinary food octave, shown in black in the diagram, proceeds.\n\nPoint 7 represents emotional and other energies, of a \"density\" of 24. If \"self-remembering\" occurs this will be the Fa point for the air octave and the Re point for the impressions octave. Otherwise it will just be the La point for the original food octave.\n\nAt point 8, the \"Si\" or Ti at the end of the first \"ordinary food\" octave represents the sexual energies, of \"density\" 12; which are the \"highest substance\" according to Gurdjieff which the body produces naturally without conscious intervention. A desire to conserve this \"higher substances\" for esoteric use is said to be the original reason for religious celibacy. With the conscious intervention at point 6 of \"self remembering\" further and more useful \"higher substances\" are created, represented by the air octave's So or \"Sol\" at point 8 and the impression octave's Mi at point 8. This Mi of \"density\" 12 is the \"higher substance\" primarily necessary for Gurdjieff's esoteric method.(Ouspensky makes some further remarks on the nature of this Mi 12 and Sol 12 in his book \"Fourth Way\".) A further conscious shock, requiring \"a special type of control over the emotions\" at point 9 would enable a new \"higher\" or spiritual body to begin to grow, this is represented by Gurdjieff as the aim of his and other esoteric traditions. Although not shown in the diagram on this page, the Air octave, if it has a shock at Point 6 in fact may proceed to La with a \"density\" of 6.\n\nOuspensky related the inner six-line figure of the Food Diagram enneagram to the circulation of the blood. Point 1, he wrote, represented the digestive system, point 2 the blood stream, point 4 the breathing system, point 5 the brain, point 7 the spinal cord and point 8 the sympathetic nervous system and sex organs, and the lines \"showed the direction of the flow or distribution of arterial blood in the organism and then its return in the form of venous blood\" \n\nOther applications of the enneagram to describing processes can be found in writings influenced by those of Gurdjieff, notably in the writings of J.G. Bennett. In his book \"Gurdjieff: Making a New World\" Bennett describes the workings of a community kitchen in terms of the enneagram and offers some explanation of the meaning of the internal lines. Another of his books, \"Enneagram Studies\", is devoted to the subject, offering nine examples of enneagrams in various applications. Rodney Collin in his book \"The Theory of Celestial Influence\" relates the enneagram to the planets of the solar system, and the yearly cycle, and also offers some explanation of the inner lines.\n\nThe Enneagram of Personality originates from the mapping of nine \"ego fixations\" on the enneagram by Oscar Ichazo. A book published in 2017, \"The Enneagram: Living and Dead\" by Plavan N. Go, attempts to verify it from the viewpoint of Gurdjieff's theories, showing the relevance of the nine personality types and their mapping on the enneagram based on the interpretation of the enneagram according to the Law of Three, the logic of three into four (O+C+N > H), and the Law of Seven.\n\n"}
{"id": "2613460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2613460", "title": "Francis Pryor", "text": "Francis Pryor\n\nFrancis Manning Marlborough Pryor, MBE, FSA (born 13 January 1945) is an English archaeologist specialising in the study of the Bronze and Iron Ages in Britain. He is best known for his discovery and excavation of Flag Fen, a Bronze Age archaeological site near Peterborough, as well as for his frequent appearances on the Channel 4 television series \"Time Team\".\n\nBorn to a Burke's Landed Gentry family, Pryor studied at Eton College before going on to study archaeology at Trinity College, Cambridge. With his first wife, he moved to Canada, where he worked as a technician at the Royal Ontario Museum for a year before returning to Britain.\n\nHe has now retired from full-time field archaeology, but still appears on television and writes books as well as being a working sheep farmer.\n\nPryor is the son of Barbara Helen Robertson and Robert Matthew Marlborough Pryor MBE TD (known as Matthew), as well as being the grandson of Walter Marlborough Pryor DSO DL JP; both his grandfather and father had been British Army officers, serving in the First and Second World Wars respectively. He was educated at Temple Grove School in East Sussex, then at Eton College alongside his first cousin William Pryor, before studying archaeology at Trinity College, Cambridge, gaining a PhD in 1985.\n\nHe married Sylvia in 1969, and migrated with her to Toronto, Ontario, Canada, on a landed immigrant scheme. There he started working at the Royal Ontario Museum as technician, working for Doug Tushingham who helped fund Pryor's first project in the United Kingdom. This was at North Elmham and the excavation was directed by Peter Wade-Martins who exposed Pryor to the benefit of opening large area excavations.\n\nPryor returned to the UK in 1970, where the construction of the new town at Peterborough offered the opportunity to do large scale archaeology ahead of the planned development work. Between 1970 and 1978, he alternated between digs in the UK and writing up the excavation reports and giving presentations on his work in Canada. Pryor and his first wife were divorced in 1977, and during the course of these projects, he met his second wife, Maisie Taylor, an expert in prehistoric wood; they worked together on the series of projects in the Peterborough area, the most famous of which is Flag Fen. He has a daughter, Amy, from his first marriage. He was a founding member of the Institute of Field Archaeologists in 1982.\n\nIn 1991 he published his first book about Flag Fen, entitled \"Flag Fen: Prehistoric Fenland Centre\", for a series co-produced by English Heritage and B.T. Batsford. The final monograph on the site – entitled \"The Flag Fen Basin: Archaeology and environment of a Fenland Landscape\" – was published in 2001 as an English Heritage Archaeological Report. Pryor followed this with a third book on the site, published by Tempus in 2005; entitled \"Flag Fen: Life and Death of a Prehistoric Landscape\", it represented what he considered to be a \"major revision\" of his 1991 work, for instance rejecting the earlier \"lake village\" concept.\nPryor was awarded an MBE \"for services to tourism\" in the 1999 Queen's Birthday Honours.\n\nAfter his retirement from archaeology, Pryor would devote his time to sheep farming, being the owner of 40 acres of fenland pasture in Lincolnshire. In an interview with the \"Financial Times\", he asserted that through this vocation, he felt a connection with the people of Bronze Age Britain, who also lived off this form of subsistence, before also expressing his opinion that human overpopulation represented a significant threat to the human species, urging people to have fewer children and eat less meat.\n\nBritain AD - Three part Channel 4 series. 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "3708969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3708969", "title": "Gardner's Art Through the Ages", "text": "Gardner's Art Through the Ages\n\nGardner's Art Through the Ages is an American textbook on the history of art, with the 2004 edition by Fred S. Kleiner and Christin J. Mamiya. The 2001 edition was awarded both a McGuffey award for longevity and the \"Texty\" Award for current editions by the Text and Academic Authors Association. No other book has received both awards in the same year.\n\nThe first edition published in 1926 was written by Helen Gardner. It, like all following editions, was organized chronologically beginning with \"The Birth of Art\" in the Upper Paleolithic and progressing in a mainly chronological sequence to the contemporary period.\n\nGardner's initial edition was ahead of its time in that along with the Western canon of European art, it examined the art of other cultures. This broader view has influenced artists like Roy Lichtenstein as a student with its coverage not only of China, Japan, and Africa, but The Americas and the South Pacific as well. It continues to be a required text for introductory classes in art history for American students to this day.\n\nThe book is now published in a number of different formats, with a \"concise\" version, and the Western and non-Western sections available separately. There are also \"enhanced\" editions with additional multimedia material, and versions in one to four volumes. According to the US publisher, Cengage, the following were available in 2010:\n\n"}
{"id": "430144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=430144", "title": "Gene Wilder", "text": "Gene Wilder\n\nJerome Silberman (June 11, 1933 – August 29, 2016), known professionally as Gene Wilder, was an American actor, screenwriter, director, producer, singer-songwriter and author.\n\nWilder began his career on stage, and made his screen debut in an episode of the TV series \"The Play of the Week\" in 1961. Although his first film role was portraying a hostage in the 1967 motion picture \"Bonnie and Clyde\", Wilder's first major role was as Leopold Bloom in the 1967 film \"The Producers\" for which he was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor. This was the first in a series of collaborations with writer/director Mel Brooks, including 1974's \"Blazing Saddles\" and \"Young Frankenstein\", which Wilder co-wrote, garnering the pair an Academy Award nomination for Best Adapted Screenplay. Wilder is known for his portrayal of Willy Wonka in \"Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory\" (1971) and for his four films with Richard Pryor: \"Silver Streak\" (1976), \"Stir Crazy\" (1980), \"See No Evil, Hear No Evil\" (1989), and \"Another You\" (1991). Wilder directed and wrote several of his own films, including \"The Woman in Red\" (1984).\n\nWith his third wife, Gilda Radner, he starred in three films, the last two of which he also directed. Her 1989 death from ovarian cancer led to his active involvement in promoting cancer awareness and treatment, helping found the Gilda Radner Ovarian Cancer Detection Center in Los Angeles and co-founding Gilda's Club.\n\nAfter his last acting performance in 2003 – a guest role on \"Will & Grace\" for which he received an Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actor – Wilder turned his attention to writing. He produced a memoir in 2005, \"Kiss Me Like a Stranger: My Search for Love and Art\"; a collection of stories, \"What Is This Thing Called Love?\" (2010); and the novels \"My French Whore\" (2007), \"The Woman Who Wouldn't\" (2008) and \"Something to Remember You By\" (2013).\n\nWilder was born Jerome Silberman on June 11, 1933, in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, the son of Jeanne (Baer) and William J. Silberman, a manufacturer and salesman of novelty items. His father was a Russian Jewish immigrant, as were his maternal grandparents. Wilder first became interested in acting at age 8, when his mother was diagnosed with rheumatic fever and the doctor told him to \"try and make her laugh.\"\n\nAt the age of 11, he saw his sister, who was studying acting, performing onstage, and he was enthralled by the experience. He asked her teacher if he could become his student, and the teacher said that if he were still interested at age 13, he would take Wilder on as a student. The day after Wilder turned 13, he called the teacher, who accepted him; Wilder studied with him for two years.\n\nWhen Jeanne Silberman felt that her son's potential was not being fully realized in Wisconsin, she sent him to Black-Foxe, a military institute in Hollywood, where he was bullied and sexually assaulted, primarily because he was the only Jewish boy in the school, according to his own account. After an unsuccessful short stay at Black-Foxe, Wilder returned home and became increasingly involved with the local theatre community. He performed for the first time in front of a paying audience at age 15, as Balthasar (Romeo's servant) in a production of Shakespeare's \"Romeo and Juliet\".\nGene Wilder graduated from Washington High School in Milwaukee in 1951.\n\nWilder was raised Jewish, but he held only the Golden Rule as his philosophy. In a book published in 2005, he stated, \"I have no other religion. I feel very Jewish and I feel very grateful to be Jewish. But I don't believe in God or anything to do with the Jewish religion\".\n\nWilder studied Communication and Theatre Arts at the University of Iowa, where he was a member of the Alpha Epsilon Pi fraternity.\n\nFollowing his 1955 graduation from Iowa, he was accepted at the Bristol Old Vic Theatre School in Bristol, England. After six months of studying fencing, Wilder became the first freshman to win the All-School Fencing Championship. Desiring to study Stanislavski's system, he returned to the U.S., living with his sister and her family in Queens. Wilder enrolled at the HB Studio.\n\nWilder was drafted into the Army on September 10, 1956. At the end of recruit training, he was assigned to the medical corps and sent to Fort Sam Houston for training. He was then given the opportunity to choose any post that was open, and wanting to stay near New York City to attend acting classes at the HB Studio, he chose to serve as paramedic in the Department of Psychiatry and Neurology at Valley Forge Army Hospital, in Phoenixville, Pennsylvania. In November 1957, his mother died from ovarian cancer. He was discharged from the army a year later and returned to New York. A scholarship to the HB Studio allowed him to become a full-time student. At first living on unemployment insurance and some savings, he later supported himself with odd jobs such as a limousine driver and fencing instructor.\n\nWilder's first professional acting job was in Cambridge, Massachusetts, where he played the Second Officer in Herbert Berghof's production of \"Twelfth Night\". He also served as a fencing choreographer.\n\nAfter three years of study with Berghof and Uta Hagen at the HB Studio, Charles Grodin told Wilder about Lee Strasberg's method acting. Grodin persuaded him to leave the studio and begin studying with Strasberg in his private class. Several months later, Wilder was accepted into the Actors Studio. Feeling that \"Jerry Silberman in \"Macbeth\"\" did not have the right ring to it, he adopted a stage name. He chose \"Wilder\" because it reminded him of \"Our Town\" author Thornton Wilder, while \"Gene\" came from the character Eugene Gant in Thomas Wolfe's first novel, \"Look Homeward, Angel\". He also liked \"Gene\" because as a boy, he was impressed by a distant relative, a World War II bomber navigator who was \"handsome and looked great in his leather flight jacket.\" He later said that he could not see Gene Wilder playing \"Macbeth\", either.\n\nAfter joining the Actors Studio, he slowly began to be noticed in the off-Broadway scene, thanks to performances in Sir Arnold Wesker's \"Roots\" and in Graham Greene's \"The Complaisant Lover\", for which Wilder received the Clarence Derwent Award for \"Best Performance by an Actor in a Nonfeatured Role.\" One of Wilder's early stage credits was playing the socially awkward mental patient Billy Bibbit in the original 1963-64 Broadway adaptation of Ken Kesey's novel \"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest\" opposite star Kirk Douglas.\n\nIn 1963, Wilder was cast in a leading role in \"Mother Courage and Her Children\", a production starring Anne Bancroft, who introduced Wilder to her boyfriend (and later husband) Mel Brooks. A few months later, Brooks mentioned that he was working on a screenplay called \"Springtime for Hitler\", for which he thought Wilder would be perfect in the role of Leo Bloom. Brooks elicited a promise from Wilder that he would check with him before making any long-term commitments. Months went by, and Wilder toured the country with different theatre productions, participated in a televised CBS presentation of \"Death of a Salesman\", and was cast for his first role in a film—a minor role in Arthur Penn's 1967 \"Bonnie and Clyde\". After three years of not hearing from Brooks, Wilder was called for a reading with Zero Mostel, who was to be the star of \"Springtime for Hitler\" and had approval of his co-star. Mostel approved, and Wilder was cast for his first leading role in a feature film, 1967's \"The Producers\".\n\n\"The Producers\" eventually became a cult comedy classic, with Mel Brooks winning an Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay and Wilder being nominated for an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor. Nevertheless, Brooks' first directorial effort did not do well at the box office and was not well received by all critics; \"New York Times\" critic Renata Adler reviewed the film and described it as \"black college humor\".\n\nIn 1969, Wilder relocated to Paris, accepting a leading role in Bud Yorkin's \"Start the Revolution Without Me\", a comedy that took place during the French Revolution. After shooting ended, Wilder returned to New York, where he read the script for \"Quackser Fortune Has a Cousin in the Bronx\" and immediately called Sidney Glazier, who produced \"The Producers\". Both men began searching for the perfect director for the film. Jean Renoir was the first candidate, but he would not be able to do the film for at least a year, so British-Indian director Waris Hussein was hired. With Margot Kidder co-starring with Wilder, it was filmed on location in Dublin, and at the nearby Ardmore Studios, in August and September 1969.\n\nIn 1971, Wilder auditioned to play Willy Wonka in Mel Stuart's film adaptation of Roald Dahl's \"Charlie and the Chocolate Factory\". After reciting some lines, director Mel Stuart immediately offered him the role. Before Wilder was officially cast for the role, Fred Astaire, Joel Grey, Ron Moody and Jon Pertwee were all considered.\n\nThe film was not a big success on its opening weekend, although it received positive reviews from critics such as Roger Ebert, who compared it to \"The Wizard of Oz\". The film currently holds an 89% \"Fresh\" rating on Rotten Tomatoes with the critical consensus stating \"\"Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory\" is strange yet comforting, full of narrative detours that don't always work but express the film's uniqueness\".\n\nThe three films Wilder appeared in following \"The Producers\" were box office failures: \"Start the Revolution\" and \"Quackser\" seemed to audiences poor copies of Mel Brooks films, while \"Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory\" was not a commercial success, although it later gained a cult following and an Oscar nomination for Best Score, as well as a Golden Globe award nomination for Wilder.\n\nWhen Woody Allen offered him a role in one segment of \"Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex* (*But Were Afraid to Ask)\", Wilder accepted, hoping this would be the hit to put an end to his series of flops. \"Everything ... \" was a hit, grossing over $18 million in the United States alone against a $2-million budget.\n\nAfter \"Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex* (*But Were Afraid to Ask)\", Wilder began working on a script he called \"Young Frankenstein\". After he wrote a two-page scenario, he called Mel Brooks, who told him that it seemed like a \"cute\" idea, but showed little interest. A few months later, Wilder received a call from his agent, Mike Medavoy, who asked if he had anything where he could include Peter Boyle and Marty Feldman, his two new clients. Having just seen Feldman on television, Wilder was inspired to write a scene that takes place at Transylvania Station, where Igor and Frederick meet for the first time. The scene was later included in the film almost verbatim. Medavoy liked the idea and called Brooks, asking him to direct. Brooks was not convinced, but having spent four years working on two box-office failures, he decided to accept. While working on the \"Young Frankenstein\" script, Wilder was offered the part of the Fox in the musical film adaptation of Saint Exupéry's classic book, \"The Little Prince\". When filming was about to begin in London, Wilder received an urgent call from Brooks, who was filming \"Blazing Saddles\", offering Wilder the role of the \"Waco Kid\" after Dan Dailey dropped out at the last minute, while Gig Young became too ill to continue. Wilder shot his scenes for \"Blazing Saddles\" and immediately afterwards filmed \"The Little Prince\".\n\nAfter \"Young Frankenstein\" was written, the rights were to be sold to Columbia Pictures, but after having trouble agreeing on the budget, Wilder, Brooks, and producer Michael Gruskoff went with 20th Century Fox, where both Brooks and Wilder had to sign five-year contracts. \"Young Frankenstein\" was a commercial success, with Wilder and Brooks receiving Best Adapted Screenplay nominations at the 1975 Oscars, losing to Francis Coppola and Mario Puzo for their adaptation of \"The Godfather Part II\". While filming \"Young Frankenstein\", Wilder had an idea for a romantic musical comedy about a brother of Sherlock Holmes. Marty Feldman and Madeline Kahn agreed to participate in the project, and Wilder began writing what became his directorial début, 1975's \"The Adventure of Sherlock Holmes' Smarter Brother\".\n\nIn 1975, Wilder's agent sent him a script for a film called \"Super Chief\". Wilder accepted, but told the film's producers that he thought the only person who could keep the film from being offensive was Richard Pryor. Pryor accepted the role in the film, which had been renamed \"Silver Streak\", the first film to team Wilder and Pryor. They became Hollywood's first successful interracial movie comedy duo.\n\nWhile filming \"Silver Streak\", Wilder began working on a script for \"The World's Greatest Lover\", inspired by Fellini's \"The White Sheik\". Wilder wrote, produced, and directed \"The World's Greatest Lover\", which premièred in 1977, but was a critical failure. \"The Frisco Kid\" (1979) was Wilder's next project. The film was to star John Wayne, but he dropped out and was replaced by Harrison Ford, then an up-and-coming actor.\n\nIn 1980 Wilder teamed up again with Richard Pryor in \"Stir Crazy\", directed by Sidney Poitier. Pryor was struggling with a severe cocaine addiction, and filming became difficult, but once the film premiered, it became an international success. \"New York\" magazine listed \"Skip Donahue\" (Wilder) and \"Harry Monroe\" (Pryor) as number nine on their 2007 list of \"The Fifteen Most Dynamic Duos in Pop Culture History\", and the film has often appeared in \"best comedy\" lists and rankings.\n\nPoitier and Wilder became friends, with the pair working together on a script called \"Traces\"—which became 1982's \"Hanky Panky\", the film where Wilder met comedian Gilda Radner. Through the remainder of the decade, Wilder and Radner worked on several projects together. After \"Hanky Panky\", Wilder directed his third film, 1984's \"The Woman in Red\", which starred Wilder, Radner, and Kelly Le Brock. \"The Woman in Red\" was not well received by the critics, nor was their next project, 1986's \"Haunted Honeymoon\", which failed to attract audiences. \"The Woman in Red\" did win an Academy Award for Best Original Song for Stevie Wonder's song \"I Just Called to Say I Love You\".\n\nTriStar Pictures wanted to produce another film starring Wilder and Pryor, and Wilder agreed to do \"See No Evil, Hear No Evil\" only if he were allowed to rewrite the script. The studio agreed, and \"See No Evil, Hear No Evil\" premiered on May 1989 to mostly negative reviews. Many critics praised Wilder and Pryor, as well as Kevin Spacey's performance, but they mostly agreed that the script was terrible. Roger Ebert called it \"a real dud\"; the \"Deseret Morning News\" described the film as \"stupid\", with an \"idiotic script\" that had a \"contrived story\" and too many \"juvenile gags\", while Vincent Canby called it \"by far the most successful co-starring vehicle for Mr. Pryor and Mr. Wilder\", also acknowledging that \"this is not elegant movie making, and not all of the gags are equally clever\".\n\nAfter starring as a political cartoonist who falls in love in the 1990 film \"Funny About Love\", Wilder performed in one final movie with Pryor, the 1991 feature \"Another You\", in which Pryor's physical deterioration from multiple sclerosis was clearly noticeable. It was Pryor's last starring role in a film (he appeared in a few cameos before he died in 2005) and also marked Wilder's last appearance in a feature film. His last two movies were not financially successful. Wilder's remaining work consisted of television movies and guest appearances in TV shows.\n\nWilder was inducted into the Wisconsin Performing Arts Hall of Fame, at the Marcus Center for the Performing Arts, Milwaukee, Wisconsin on Tuesday April 9, 1991.\n\nIn 1994, Wilder starred in the NBC sitcom \"Something Wilder\". The show received poor reviews and lasted only one season. He went back to the small screen in 1999, appearing in three television movies, one of which was the NBC adaptation of \"Alice in Wonderland\". The other two, \"Murder in a Small Town\" and \"The Lady in Question\", were mystery movies for A&E TV that were cowritten by Wilder, in which he played a theatre director turned amateur detective.\n\nThree years later, Wilder guest-starred on two episodes of NBC's \"Will & Grace\", winning a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actor on a Comedy Series for his role as Mr. Stein, Will Truman's boss. This ended Wilder's screen career; from 2003 forward, Wilder focused his creative energies on writing novels and stories, as well as painting.\n\nWilder met his first wife, Mary Mercier, while studying at the HB Studio in New York. Although the couple had not been together long, they married on July 22, 1960. They spent long periods of time apart, eventually divorcing in 1965. A few months later, Wilder began dating Mary Joan Schutz, a friend of his sister. Schutz had a daughter, Katharine, from a previous marriage. When Katharine started calling Wilder \"Dad\", he decided to do what he felt was \"the right thing to do\", marrying Schutz on October 27, 1967, and adopting Katharine that same year. Schutz and Wilder separated after seven years of marriage, with Katharine suspecting that Wilder was having an affair with his \"Young Frankenstein\" co-star, Madeline Kahn. After the divorce, he briefly dated his other \"Frankenstein\" co-star, Teri Garr. Wilder eventually became estranged from Katharine.\n\nWilder met \"Saturday Night Live\" actress Gilda Radner on August 13, 1981, while filming Sidney Poitier's \"Hanky Panky\". Radner was married to guitarist G. E. Smith at the time, but Wilder and she became inseparable friends. When the filming of \"Hanky Panky\" ended, Wilder found himself missing Radner, so he called her. The relationship grew, and Radner eventually divorced Smith in 1982. She moved in with Wilder, and the couple married on September 14, 1984, in the south of France. The couple wanted to have children, but Radner suffered miscarriages, and doctors could not determine the problem. After experiencing severe fatigue and suffering from pain in her upper legs on the set of \"Haunted Honeymoon\", Radner sought medical treatment. Following a number of false diagnoses, she was found to have ovarian cancer in October 1986. Over the next year and a half, Radner battled the disease, receiving chemotherapy and radiotherapy treatments. The disease finally went into remission, giving the couple a respite, during which time Wilder filmed \"See No Evil, Hear No Evil\". By May 1989, the cancer returned and had metastasized. Radner died on May 20, 1989. Wilder later stated, \"I always thought she'd pull through.\"\n\nFollowing Radner's death, Wilder became active in promoting cancer awareness and treatment, helping found the Gilda Radner Ovarian Cancer Detection Center in Los Angeles and co-founding Gilda's Club, a support group to raise awareness of cancer that began in New York City and now has branches throughout the country.\n\nWhile preparing for his role as a deaf man in \"See No Evil, Hear No Evil\", Wilder met Karen Webb (née Boyer), who was a clinical supervisor for the New York League for the Hard of Hearing. Webb coached him in lip reading. Following Gilda Radner's death, Wilder and Webb reconnected, and on September 8, 1991, they married. The two lived in Stamford, Connecticut, in the 1734 Colonial home that he had shared with Radner.\n\nIn 2007, Wilder stated, \"I'm quietly political. I don't like advertising. Giving money to someone or support, but not getting on a bandstand. I don't want to run for president in 2008. I will write another book instead.\" Wilder donated to Barack Obama's 2008 presidential campaign.\n\nThe Wilders spent most of their time painting watercolors, writing, and participating in charitable efforts.\nIn 1998, Wilder collaborated on the book \"Gilda's Disease\" with oncologist Steven Piver, sharing personal experiences of Radner's struggle with ovarian cancer. Wilder himself was hospitalized with non-Hodgkin lymphoma in 1999, but confirmed in March 2005 that the cancer was in complete remission following chemotherapy and a stem cell transplant.\n\nIn October 2001, he read from \"Charlie and the Chocolate Factory\" as part of a special benefit performance held at the Westport Country Playhouse to aid families affected by the September 11 attacks. Also in 2001, Wilder donated a collection of scripts, correspondences, documents, photographs, and clipped images to the University of Iowa Libraries.\n\nOn March 1, 2005, Wilder released his highly personal memoir, \"Kiss Me Like a Stranger: My Search for Love and Art\", an account of his life covering everything from his childhood up to Radner's death. Two years later, in March 2007, Wilder released his first novel, \"My French Whore\", which is set during World War I. His second novel, \"The Woman Who Wouldn't\", was released in March 2008.\n\nIn a 2008 Turner Classic Movies special, \"Role Model: Gene Wilder\", where Alec Baldwin interviewed Wilder about his career, Wilder said that he was basically retired from acting for good. \"I don't like show business, I realized,\" he explained. \"I like show, but I don't like the business.\"\n\nIn 2010, Wilder released a collection of stories called \"What Is This Thing Called Love?\". His third novel, \"Something to Remember You By: A Perilous Romance\", was released in April 2013.\n\nWhen asked in a 2013 \"Time Out New York\" magazine interview whether he would act again if a suitable film project came his way, Wilder responded, \"I'm tired of watching the bombing, shooting, killing, swearing and 3-D. I get 52 movies a year sent to me, and maybe there are three good [ones]. That's why I went into writing. It's not that I wouldn't act again. I'd say, 'Give me the script. If it's something wonderful, I'll do it.' But I don't get anything like that.\"\n\nWilder died at the age of 83 on August 29, 2016, at home in Stamford, Connecticut, from complications of Alzheimer's disease. He had kept knowledge of his condition private, but had been diagnosed three years prior to his death. Wilder's nephew, Jordan Walker-Pearlman, said that this was so as not to sadden fans of \"Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory\", stating:\n\nAccording to his family, Wilder died while listening to one of his favorite songs, a rendition of \"Over the Rainbow\" sung by Ella Fitzgerald.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2201453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2201453", "title": "Genitive absolute", "text": "Genitive absolute\n\nIn Ancient Greek grammar, the genitive absolute (Latin: genitivus absolutus) is a grammatical construction consisting of a participle and often a noun both in the genitive case, which is very similar to the ablative absolute in Latin. A genitive absolute construction serves as a dependent clause, usually at the beginning of a sentence, in which the genitive noun is the subject of the dependent clause and the participle takes on the role of predicate.\n\nThe term \"absolute\" comes from the Latin \"absolutus\", literally meaning \"made loose\". That comes from the general truth that the genitive absolute usually does not refer to anything in the independent clause; however, there are many exceptions, notably in the New Testament and in Koine.\n\nAll four participle tenses are used in forming a genitive absolute. The different tenses indicate different relations in time between the independent and the dependent clause. \"Present participles\" are used when the action in the dependent clause happens simultaneously with that of the independent clause, and are therefore translated as such. Such a translated genitive absolute begins with, for example, \"while\" or \"as\", or a phrase with \"with\" or \"without\" can be used.\n\n\"Aorist participles\" are used when the dependent clause takes place before the independent clause. Consequently instead of \"while\" and \"as\", \"after\" and \"when\" are the conjunctions usually used in translations, or an English perfect participle (\"having...\") is used rather than a present one. \"Future participles\", which are less common than their present and aorist counterparts, give information about what \"will\" or \"might\" be.\n\nA \"perfect participle\" describes the circumstances obtaining at the time of the main verb as a result of an earlier event.\n\nApart from translations with these conjunctions, others are also frequently used while translating a genitive absolute, such as \"because\", \"however\", or \"although\".\n\nAbsolute constructions occur with other grammatical cases in Indo-European languages, such as accusative absolute, ablative absolute in Latin, dative absolute in Gothic and Old Church Slavonic, and locative absolute in Vedic Sanskrit. Compare also nominative absolute in English. An actual genitive absolute exists in German, such as \"klopfenden Herzens\" \"(with) his/her heart beating\", although its use is much less prominent compared to Greek (or to Latin's ablative or English's nominative in such constructions).\n\nBelow are two examples of the genitive absolute, in different tenses.\nThis first example shows how a genitive absolute with a present participle is used with simultaneous actions. The independent clause is \"\" (\"...the women are at home by themselves\"). The dependent clause and genitive absolute in this example is \"\" (\"While the men are waging war\"). It explains to the reader why the women are home alone and yet is additional and not required information. Note the usage of the conjunction \"while\", indicating the two facts occurring at the same time.\n\nWhen translating into English, failure to render the Greek participle into a finite clause often yields a stilted or even ungrammatical result: \"The men waging war, the women are at home...\" is hardly acceptable.\nThis example shows a genitive absolute with an aorist participle. The independent clause in this sentence, \"\", explains what happens (\"...the slaves began to work.\"). The genitive absolute, being \"\", provides the reader with additional information (\"After the/their master had ordered (it)...\"). Here, note the conjunction \"after\", which indicates the two facts do \"not\" happen simultaneously, as they do with the present genitive absolute.\n\nIn this case, a more direct rendition, with 'having' as an overt indicator of temporal sequence, is possible if somewhat stilted: \"The master having ordered it, the slaves began to work.\"\n\nThe perfect participle describes a situation which was already in existence at the time of the action of the main verb, for example:\nThe future is less often used in a genitive absolute. It is generally found after the particle () \"in view of the fact that\" or \"on the grounds that\", for example:\n"}
{"id": "4375576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4375576", "title": "Grammar induction", "text": "Grammar induction\n\nGrammar induction (or grammatical inference) is the process in machine learning of learning a formal grammar (usually as a collection of \"re-write rules\" or \"productions\" or alternatively as a finite state machine or automaton of some kind) from a set of observations, thus constructing a model which accounts for the characteristics of the observed objects. More generally, grammatical inference is that branch of machine learning where the instance space consists of discrete combinatorial objects such as strings, trees and graphs.\n\nGrammatical inference has often been very focused on the problem of learning finite state machines of various types (see the article Induction of regular languages for details on these approaches), since there have been efficient algorithms for this problem since the 1980s.\n\nSince the beginning of the century, these approaches have been extended to the problem of inference of context-free grammars and richer formalisms, such as multiple context-free grammars and parallel multiple context-free grammars.\nOther classes of grammars for which grammatical inference has been studied are contextual grammars and pattern languages.\n\nThe simplest form of learning is where the learning algorithm merely receives a set of examples drawn from the language in question: the aim is to learn the language from examples of it (and, rarely, from counter-examples, that is, example that do not belong to the language).\nHowever, other learning models have been studied. One frequently studied alternative is the case where the learner can ask membership queries as in the exact query learning model or minimally adequate teacher model introduced by Angluin.\n\nThere is a wide variety of methods for grammatical inference. Two of the classic sources are and . also devote a brief section to the problem, and cite a number of references. The basic trial-and-error method they present is discussed below. For approaches to infer subclasses of regular languages in particular, see \"Induction of regular languages\". A more recent textbook is de la Higuera (2010), which covers the theory of grammatical inference of regular languages and finite state automata. D'Ulizia, Ferri and Grifoni provide a survey that explores grammatical inference methods for natural languages.\n\nThe method proposed in Section 8.7 of suggests successively guessing grammar rules (productions) and testing them against positive and negative observations. The rule set is expanded so as to be able to generate each positive example, but if a given rule set also generates a negative example, it must be discarded. This particular approach can be characterized as \"hypothesis testing\" and bears some similarity to Mitchel's version space algorithm. The text provide a simple example which nicely illustrates the process, but the feasibility of such an unguided trial-and-error approach for more substantial problems is dubious.\n\nGrammatical induction using evolutionary algorithms is the process of evolving a representation of the grammar of a target language through some evolutionary process. Formal grammars can easily be represented as tree structures of production rules that can be subjected to evolutionary operators. Algorithms of this sort stem from the genetic programming paradigm pioneered by John Koza. Other early work on simple formal languages used the binary string representation of genetic algorithms, but the inherently hierarchical structure of grammars couched in the EBNF language made trees a more flexible approach.\n\nKoza represented Lisp programs as trees. He was able to find analogues to the genetic operators within the standard set of tree operators. For example, swapping sub-trees is equivalent to the corresponding process of genetic crossover, where sub-strings of a genetic code are transplanted into an individual of the next generation. Fitness is measured by scoring the output from the functions of the Lisp code. Similar analogues between the tree structured lisp representation and the representation of grammars as trees, made the application of genetic programming techniques possible for grammar induction.\n\nIn the case of grammar induction, the transplantation of sub-trees corresponds to the swapping of production rules that enable the parsing of phrases from some language. The fitness operator for the grammar is based upon some measure of how well it performed in parsing some group of sentences from the target language. In a tree representation of a grammar, a terminal symbol of a production rule corresponds to a leaf node of the tree. Its parent nodes corresponds to a non-terminal symbol (e.g. a noun phrase or a verb phrase) in the rule set. Ultimately, the root node might correspond to a sentence non-terminal.\n\nLike all greedy algorithms, greedy grammar inference algorithms make, in iterative manner, decisions that seem to be the best at that stage.\nThe decisions made usually deal with things like the creation of new rules, the removal of existing rules, the choice of a rule to be applied or the merging of some existing rules.\nBecause there are several ways to define 'the stage' and 'the best', there are also several greedy grammar inference algorithms.\n\nThese context-free grammar generating algorithms make the decision after every read symbol:\n\nThese context-free grammar generating algorithms first read the whole given symbol-sequence and then start to make decisions:\n\nA more recent approach is based on distributional learning. Algorithms using these approaches have been applied to learning context-free grammars and mildly context-sensitive languages and have been proven to be correct and efficient for large subclasses of these grammars.\n\nAngluin defines a \"pattern\" to be \"a string of constant symbols from Σ and variable symbols from a disjoint set\".\nThe language of such a pattern is the set of all its nonempty ground instances i.e. all strings resulting from consistent replacement of its variable symbols by nonempty strings of constant symbols.\nA pattern is called descriptive for a finite input set of strings if its language is minimal (with respect to set inclusion) among all pattern languages subsuming the input set.\n\nAngluin gives a polynomial algorithm to compute, for a given input string set, all descriptive patterns in one variable \"x\".\nTo this end, she builds an automaton representing all possibly relevant patterns; using sophisticated arguments about word lengths, which rely on \"x\" being the only variable, the state count can be drastically reduced.\n\nErlebach et al. give a more efficient version of Angluin's pattern learning algorithm, as well as a parallelized version.\n\nArimura et al. show that a language class obtained from limited unions of patterns can be learned in polynomial time.\n\nPattern theory, formulated by Ulf Grenander, is a mathematical formalism to describe knowledge of the world as patterns. It differs from other approaches to artificial intelligence in that it does not begin by prescribing algorithms and machinery to recognize and classify patterns; rather, it prescribes a vocabulary to articulate and recast the pattern concepts in precise language.\n\nIn addition to the new algebraic vocabulary, its statistical approach was novel in its aim to:\nBroad in its mathematical coverage, pattern theory spans algebra and statistics, as well as local topological and global entropic properties.\n\nThe principle of grammar induction has been applied to other aspects of natural language processing, and has been applied (among many other problems) to semantic parsing, natural language understanding, example-based translation, morpheme analysis, and place name derivations. Grammar induction has also been used for lossless data compression and statistical inference via minimum message length (MML) and minimum description length (MDL) principles. Grammar induction has also been used in some probabilistic models of language acquisition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "350815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=350815", "title": "Hans Reiser", "text": "Hans Reiser\n\nHans Thomas Reiser (born December 19, 1963) is an American computer programmer, entrepreneur, and convicted murderer. In April 2008, Reiser was convicted of the first-degree murder of his wife, Nina Reiser, who disappeared in September 2006. He subsequently pleaded guilty to a reduced charge of second-degree murder, as part of a settlement agreement that included disclosing the location of his wife's body, which he revealed to be in a shallow grave near the couple's home.\n\nPrior to his incarceration, Reiser created the ReiserFS computer file system, which is contained within the Linux kernel, as well as its attempted successor, Reiser4. In 2004, he founded Namesys, a corporation meant to coordinate the development of both file systems.\n\nHans Reiser was born in Oakland, California to Ramon\nand Beverly (née Kleiber) Reiser and grew up in the same city. He dropped out of junior high school when he was 13 because of his disdain for what he considered an overly rigid, conventional schooling system, and for constantly being ridiculed and bullied by his peers. Reiser has stated in interviews that at the age of 15, he was accepted at the University of California, Berkeley. Reiser attended the university off and on until he received a BS in computer science in 1992 at the age of 28. Although Reiser preferred higher education, he did not pursue a Ph.D. for the same educational reasons for dropping out of junior high school. He worked part- to full-time in the computer field while founding the California-based software company Namesys Inc. Before Namesys, Reiser was employed at Synopsys, IBM Research, Premenos Corp., and Accurate Information Systems.\n\nReiser and his company Namesys developed the journaled computer file systems ReiserFS and Reiser4. ReiserFS has been available in the Linux operating system since version 2.4.1 and has at times been the default filesystem on several Linux distributions including, until 2006, Novell's SUSE Linux Enterprise.\n\nFollowing Reiser's 2006 arrest on suspicion of murder, people in the free software community expressed concern over the future of Reiser's filesystem (Reiser4). Jonathan Corbet, editor of LWN.net, argued that the immaturity of Reiser4's feature set and Reiser's extensive combative relationship with the community meant the filesystem's future had been limited in any event.\n\nShortly after Reiser's arrest, the employees of Namesys stated they would continue to work, that the arrest had no immediate effect on the rate of the software's development, and if the case expanded over a longer time, they would seek solutions to ensure the long-term future of the company. On December 21, 2006, Reiser announced that he was selling the company to raise money for his increasing legal fees. According to an interview with Namesys employee Edward Shishkin, as of January 2008, the commercial activity of the company ceased but it had not been sold.\n\nIn 1998, while working in Saint Petersburg, Russia, Hans Reiser reportedly selected a Russian woman from a mail-order bride catalogue and arranged to meet her. He subsequently married Nina Sharanova () who had joined the other woman on the date with Reiser as a translator. Nina was a Russian-born and trained obstetrician and gynecologist who was studying to become an American licensed OB/GYN. They had two children. Hans' father, Ramon, became suspicious of his new daughter-in-law, when she took the title of CFO at Namesys at that time. Ramon was trained in military interviewing techniques and claimed that Nina lied to him when he confronted her about inexplicably fast shrinking reserves of Namesys. The Reisers separated in May 2004. Nina Reiser filed for divorce three months later, citing irreconcilable differences and alleging that their children \"hardly know their father\" because he was out of the country on business for most of the year, according to court records. She was granted sole legal custody of the children and shared physical custody of them with her husband. The divorce was never finalized.\n\nNina Reiser obtained a temporary restraining order against Hans in December 2004 after he pushed her, at the height of the divorce proceedings. She dropped the temporary restraining order in late 2005 because the heat of the divorce had chilled over time. In exchange, Reiser agreed to be bound by a one-year civil restraining order which prohibited him from \"contacting, harassing or disturbing the peace\" of Nina Reiser at her home or place of work and ordered him to stay at least away from her. In May, Nina Reiser alleged in court filings that her husband had failed to pay 50 percent medical expenses and childcare expenses as ordered by a judge and was in arrears for more than $12,000.\n\nNina Reiser was reported missing on September 5, 2006. She had last been seen on September 3, when she dropped the couple's two children off with Hans, at his mother's house where he was living at the time. She also failed to meet her best friend at her house later that evening.\n\nNina Reiser's 2001 Honda Odyssey minivan, with groceries inside, was found on September 9 on Fernwood Drive in Oakland's Montclair district, just east of the SR 13 Warren Freeway. It was reported by police that neighbors first spotted the parked minivan on September 5, the day she was supposed to pick up her children at school.\n\nHans Reiser's neighbors said that they saw him spraying water off something in the driveway for half an hour shortly after Nina went missing and said that his car — a 1988 Honda CR-X Si hatchback — disappeared shortly after, and his mother rented a car so Hans could drive hers. Police brought cadaver dogs in to search his property, but no human remains were found.\n\nFollowing Nina Reiser's disappearance, which resulted in the removal of the Reiser children from the Reiser family, Hans Reiser attempted to obtain custody but was unsuccessful. Oakland police testified against Hans Reiser at the custody hearing, though they did not reveal the evidence on which they based their concerns.\n\nLater that month, Oakland police briefly detained Hans Reiser, served him with a search warrant on his person, and obtained a DNA sample. On October 10, 2006, following the second search of his home, Oakland police and Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) investigators removed a number of items. HSI had been investigating Reiser for money laundering. Police announced that they were now treating the disappearance as a homicide case, and Reiser was arrested for the murder of Nina Reiser and subsequently charged.\n\nOn October 11, 2006, law enforcement officials said that blood spatter had been found in Hans Reiser's house and car. Forensic testing (including DNA analysis) could neither confirm nor rule out Nina Reiser as the source of the blood. Officials had not located the missing passenger seat of his car. They also indicated that they had found in the car two books on homicide investigation purchased by Reiser on September 8 — five days after his wife's disappearance: \"\", by David Simon, and \"Masterpieces of Murder\", by Jonathan Goodman. Daniel Horowitz, a high-profile defense attorney, joined the defense team but dropped the case on November 28, citing Reiser's inability to pay for his services. Namesys's employees stated that Reiser felt the police would suspect him from the start. Reiser was arraigned on Thursday, October 12, where he delayed entering a plea until his next court appearance on November 28. He was held without bail. On November 28, Reiser entered a not guilty plea and invoked his right to a speedy trial, forcing the state to schedule a preliminary hearing for December 11.\n\nOn December 2, at the request of the Oakland police, search and rescue teams combed an area less than from Hans Reiser's house, but no new major findings were immediately announced.\n\nThe preliminary hearing opened on December 11, 2006, with Reiser being represented by attorney William Du Bois. At the hearing, a forensic technician testified that blood matching Nina Reiser's DNA had been found on a bag in Hans Reiser's car, and on a pillar in his mother's (Beverly Palmer's) house, where he had been living since the separation. It later emerged that a mistake had been made when the police analysed the blood on the pillar, rendering the evidence inconclusive. Police also testified that they had found a 40-piece socket set which may have been used to remove the passenger seat, a receipt for the purchase of the socket set from Kragen Auto Parts, four seat bolts, and a ratchet wrench with a socket on it, suggesting that the seat may have been removed recently. A traffic officer who had pulled Reiser over nine days after Reiser's wife went missing testified later in the trial that the passenger seat had been present at the time, and that he had not seen any blood.\n\nDuring the third day of the preliminary hearing, on December 16, 2006, Officer Gino Guerrero stated that Reiser had engaged in a lengthy cat-and-mouse game with surveillance officers who were trailing him on the evening of September 18, 2006. When Reiser left family court in Oakland in the afternoon of September 18, he was trailed by police officers using both cars and an airplane. According to a probable cause statement, Reiser and a male friend \"appeared to be conducting countersurveillance\" to avoid police by driving at varying speeds, turning down small residential streets and making abrupt stops.\n\nReiser and his friend eventually dined at Fonda restaurant in Albany and afterwards the friend dropped Reiser at the corner of San Pablo and Ashby avenues in Berkeley. Guerrero said that Reiser walked around the area furtively, stopping occasionally to look in all directions, and eventually got into a 1988 Honda CRX which was parked on Acton Street near Carleton Street. Guerrero said police then followed Reiser as he drove the car to 2425 Monterey Road in Oakland, less than away from where Reiser was living with his mother.\n\nReiser's mother, Beverly Palmer, testified that she had been out of town the weekend Nina Reiser disappeared and was surprised to learn that her son was driving her car, a 2003 Honda Hybrid, and that his Honda CRX was not at the house. Palmer said that when she asked her son where the CRX was, he said it was not working and \"he'd take care of it and I should never mind\".\n\nDespite having already testified in December 2006, the Reisers' seven-year-old-son, Rory, was called back to clarify his testimony on January 17, 2007. By the time this order was issued, the Reiser children had been taken to Russia by their maternal grandmother. The grandmother did not act on Judge Julie Conger's request to have the boy return to the hearing.\n\nProsecutor Greg Dolge stated that Rory did not appear because he was under the care of a therapist in Russia who wanted him to stay in Russia for further treatment. Additionally, the grandmother was occupied with Russian court custody proceedings at the time.\n\nBefore her disappearance, Nina Reiser had obtained Russian citizenship for her daughter and son in 2005 and 2006 respectively. William Du Bois proposed an alternate theory of the crime upon learning this and stated that Nina could be alive in Russia.\n\nInitially, Judge Julie Conger said that on February 23, she would hold closing arguments and rule on whether there was enough evidence to order Hans Reiser to stand trial. On February 22, 2007, the closing arguments were postponed until March 9 as Reiser's attorney was involved with an unrelated trial that was running longer than expected.\n\nOn March 9, the judge ruled that Reiser would stand trial and set Reiser's arraignment for March 23.\n\nOn March 23, 2007, Reiser pleaded not guilty before Judge C. Don Clay. Shortly after, the court learned of a complication in the trial regarding a former friend of Hans Reiser named Sean Sturgeon. Sturgeon, who had previously dated Nina Reiser, was claiming to be responsible for eight murders and possibly a ninth. In an interview with Wired News, Sturgeon vigorously denied that Nina Reiser was one of them. With the police doubting that the alleged murders ever took place, Don Clay issued a gag order against discussing Sturgeon at the trial.\n\nOn June 11, Reiser's trial was assigned to Alameda County Superior Court Judge Larry Goodman, who had presided over a number of murder and death penalty cases.\n\nOn July 23, 2007, hearings on pretrial motions began. Potential jurors were to be brought to court on August 29, 30, and September 4, to fill out questionnaires, but face-to-face questioning of prospective jurors was not planned to begin until September 19, 2007. Opening statements were expected to begin on October 29, 2007; however, they were postponed, and rescheduled for November 5, 2007. The defense stated that the delay was due to possible prejudicial information in a television segment about the case to be aired on November 2. The prosecutor stated the delay was necessary as more time was needed for additional pretrial motions.\n\nHans Reiser's murder trial began on November 6, 2007 with opening statements from prosecutor Paul Hora. Reiser vigorously denied responsibility for the murder throughout the trial. When Reiser testified in his own defense, his implausible claims and erratic behavior in the courtroom largely undermined his claim of innocence. Psychiatrist Beverly Parr testified that he \"possibly\" exhibited symptoms of Asperger syndrome but did not make a diagnosis.\n\nOn November 13, 2007, Reiser's eight-year-old son, Rory, who had made one out of two planned appearances in the pretrial hearing, arrived from Russia to testify for the prosecution. Both of his grandmothers were ordered out of the courtroom before he took the stand. The prosecution and defense teams both considered the testimony inconsistent and Du Bois complained that the boy had been coached.\n\nAfter three days of trial, the prosecutor concluded his closing argument urging jurors to convict Hans Reiser for murdering his wife. In his closing argument, Reiser's attorney, William Du Bois, urged the jury to consider a sentence of voluntary manslaughter if they believed that Nina was dead and that Hans Reiser killed her in a moment of passion.\n\nOn Monday, April 28, 2008, Hans Reiser was found guilty of first degree murder.\n\nProsecutors agreed to a deal whereby Reiser would reveal the location of his wife's body in exchange for pleading guilty to second-degree murder. The deal was made with the agreement of Nina's family, but it was subject to final approval by Judge Goodman. On Monday, July 7, 2008, Reiser led police to Nina's shallow grave in the Oakland Hills. Reiser's attorney, William Du Bois, who was handcuffed to Reiser and accompanied by a heavy police guard to the site, said that the remains were found buried on the side of a hill between Redwood Regional Park and the Huckleberry Botanic Regional Preserve, less than from the home on Exeter Drive where Reiser lived with his mother, and where Nina Reiser was last seen alive on September 3, 2006. Oakland homicide detective Lt. Ersie Joyner recalled that Reiser led them directly to the exact site, without any hesitation or confusion. On July 8, the coroner positively identified the skeletal remains as those of Nina Reiser.\n\nOn August 29, 2008, Reiser was sentenced to 15 years to life, the maximum sentence for second-degree murder. As a result of his plea bargain, Reiser cannot appeal his conviction or sentence.\n\nOn September 5, 2008, Hans Reiser arrived at San Quentin State Prison to begin serving his sentence. Reiser tried to appeal his second-degree murder conviction on October 30, 2008. The request was denied by Judge Larry Goodman on November 13, 2008. On January 10, 2009, it was reported that Reiser was recovering after having been beaten by several prisoners. On January 28, 2009, he was transferred to Mule Creek State Prison. In February 2011, he was transferred to Pleasant Valley State Prison. Reiser is housed at the Correctional Training Facility near Soledad, California, with a tentative parole eligibility date of July 2020.\n\nIn September 2011, Hans Reiser filed a civil lawsuit. In his complaint he named more than 70 defendants, including trial judges and his attorney, William H. Du Bois. He claimed, among other things, that his attorney conspired with the judge to file motions against him, which were impossible to appeal, and that his attorney had forced him to take the stand against his will. After several rounds of amendments and additional complaints, the lawsuit was dismissed with prejudice, which means that Reiser can no longer file civil lawsuits regarding his current convictions. The judges voiced several errors before the dismissal. According to the judges, Reiser's complaint was too long (more than 300 pages in its original form); he had too many defendants; and the defendants included judges, who are immune to lawsuits regarding their official conduct. Finally, the judges could not decide whether there was a cause of action (any illegal deed or event, which could be prosecuted) to accept the plea. Reiser argued that he had not had access to the prison law library and that he had been denied the appointment of an attorney to help him formulate his complaint.\n\nIn July 2012, a jury awarded Reiser's children $60 million against their father for the death of Nina Reiser. Reiser acted as his own attorney during the trial and tried to argue that he killed his wife to protect their children.\n\nThe Hans Reiser murder case has been covered on a number of true crime television series:\n\n\nStephen Elliott's 2009 memoir \"The Adderall Diaries\" covers, in part, Elliott's investigation of the Reiser case. The book was adapted as the 2016 film \"The Adderall Diaries\", in which Reiser is portrayed by Christian Slater.\n\n"}
{"id": "5477444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5477444", "title": "Henry R. Gibson", "text": "Henry R. Gibson\n\nHenry Richard Gibson (December 24, 1837 – May 25, 1938) was an American attorney and politician who represented Tennessee's 2nd district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1895 to 1905. He also served as a state chancery court judge, and was a delegate to Tennessee's 1870 constitutional convention. Outside politics he wrote and edited several books on federal and state law.\n\nGibson was born on Kent Island, Maryland, in Queen Anne's County, son of Woolman and Catherine (Carter) Gibson. He attended the common schools at Kent Island and at Bladensburg, Maryland. He graduated from Decker's Academy at Bladensburg in 1858 and from Hobart College at Geneva, New York, in 1862.\n\nGibson served in the commissary department of the Union Army from March 1863 to July 1865. He entered Albany Law School in New York in September 1865. He was admitted to the bar in December 1865 and commenced practice in Knoxville, Tennessee, in January 1866. He moved to Jacksboro, Tennessee, in Campbell County in October 1866, and was appointed commissioner of claims by Governor William G. Brownlow in 1868. He eventually formed a law partnership with Leonidas C. Houk.\n\nIn 1870, Gibson represented Anderson and Campbell counties at the state convention which created the present Tennessee State Constitution. He served on the convention's legislative committee. At the convention, he proposed a resolution calling on the state to ratify the 15th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, but the resolution failed (Tennessee wouldn't ratify the amendment until 1997). He also presented a memorial calling for the creation of Loudon County.\n\nGibson was a member of the Tennessee Senate from 1871 to 1873, representing the fourth district (Claiborne, Grainger, Anderson and Campbell). He was a member of the Tennessee House of Representatives from 1875 to 1877, representing Union, Campbell and Scott counties.\n\nGibson returned to Knoxville in 1876, and founded the \"Knoxville Republican\", a campaign newspaper, three years later. In 1882, he and a group of investors purchased the \"Knoxville Daily Chronicle\" from William Rule, and merged it with the \"Republican\" under the new name, \"Knoxville Republican-Chronicle\" (Rule would re-purchase this paper within a few years, however). Gibson served as a United States pension agent at Knoxville from June 22, 1883, until June 9, 1885. From 1886 to 1894, he was chancellor of the second chancery division of Tennessee. In 1891, he published a legal text, \"Gibson’s Suits in Chancery\". Gibson worked as a professor of medical jurisprudence at the Tennessee Medical College from 1889 to 1906.\n\nGibson's law partner, Leonidas Houk, was elected to the 2nd district seat in the U.S. House of Representatives in 1878, and served throughout the 1880s. During this period, Houk developed a political machine that largely controlled the state Republican Party, and established Republican dominance in the 1st and 2nd districts. Gibson, who remained a close confidant of Houk, was influential within the Houk machine, and was considered by many Houk's rightful successor following the congressman's sudden death in 1891. He lacked the organization to mount a campaign, however, and Houk's son, John Chiles Houk, was elected to the congressional seat.\n\nIn 1893, Gibson launched his campaign for the 2nd district seat. The younger Houk's popularity had declined when evidence surfaced that he had helped ensure the defeat of Houk machine rival Henry Clay Evans in the 3rd district. Historian Gordon McKinney described the contest between Gibson and Houk for the Republican nomination as \"one of the dirtiest in East Tennessee history.\" Houk assailed Gibson's war record, and managed to have Gibson expelled from the Grand Army of the Republic (the GAR determined Gibson had been a civilian employee, not a soldier). Gibson accused Houk of frequently missing votes, including a key vote on a veterans' pensions bill, and argued that the silence of politicians like Houk on the tariff issue was to blame for the Panic of 1893. In the March primary, Gibson edged Houk, 14,072 votes to 13,119. Houk refused to drop out, and opposed Gibson as an independent in the general election, but again was defeated, 16,215 votes to 13,191 (the Democrats did not field a candidate).\n\nGibson supported protectionist measures, such as tariffs on imports, and generally supported prohibition. In January 1896, he introduced a bill that would have provided pensions for survivors of the steamboat \"Sultana\" disaster, though the bill was never passed. He voted for the declaration of war with Spain in April 1898. On June 14, 1898, he delivered a speech on the House floor calling for the annexation of Hawaii and the construction of the Nicaragua Canal.\n\nDuring the intraparty fighting between Walter P. Brownlow and Henry Clay Evans for control of the state Republican Party, Gibson aligned himself with Brownlow. In 1902, Nathan W. Hale, who was supported by the Evans faction, challenged Gibson for the 2nd district's Republican nomination, but was defeated in the primary. Gibson did not seek reelection in 1904.\n\nAfter his service as United States Representative, Gibson retired from public life and resided in Washington, D.C.. He was engaged as a writer, as an author, and as a consulting editor of the \"American and English Encyclopedia of Law and Practice\". In 1907, he published a 368-page epic poem, \"The Maid of Redenfayn\". He published an expanded version of this poem in 1912 under the title, \"The Ban of Baldurbane\". He was an associate reviser in 1918 of the \"Code of Tennessee\", having helped edit the 1896 volume.\n\nGibson died on May 25, 1938 at the age of 100 in Washington. His remains were cremated and the ashes were spread around his hometown in Maryland, though a monument at Old Gray Cemetery in Knoxville bears his name.\n\nAt the time of his death, he was the last living person known to have been born in 1837, as the last Union general Aaron Daggett died 11 days prior. \n\nGibson married Frances Reed on November 12, 1863. They had two daughters. Following her death in 1919, he married Lizzie (Beckerdite) Clark in 1920.\n\n"}
{"id": "2965877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2965877", "title": "Inside/outside", "text": "Inside/outside\n\nThe inside/outside model of political reform is the organizing method/philosophy being used by the Progressive Democrats of America in its efforts to change the Democratic Party but also to foster a broad grass-roots progressive social and political movement. \n"}
{"id": "35099650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35099650", "title": "Jorunn Økland", "text": "Jorunn Økland\n\nJorunn Økland (born 1964) is a Norwegian gender studies expert and biblical scholar with a background in Classics. She is currently Director at the Norwegian Institute at Athens (from 2016) and Professor of Gender Studies in the Humanities at the University of Oslo (from 2007), and former Director of its Centre for Gender Research (2010-2013). Her fields of expertise are ancient mediterranean material culture, feminist critique of religion, gender and sacred texts, translation, and cultural/secular uses of the Bible.\n\nIn the period 2000-2009 she was Lecturer and Senior Lecturer at the Department of Biblical Studies, University of Sheffield.\n\nShe has led several research projects, and was the first managing editor of the \"Journal of the Bible and Its Reception\" (de Gruyter 2014-). She was President of the European Association of Biblical Studies (2009–12) and chair of the Council for Gender Studies in Norway (2010-2011). She has also held further positions of trust in international research associations. She has worked as a researcher at the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters Centre for Advanced Study.\n\n"}
{"id": "2907349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2907349", "title": "Laurence Nowell", "text": "Laurence Nowell\n\nLaurence (or Lawrence) Nowell (c. 1515 – c. 1571) was an English antiquarian, cartographer and pioneering scholar of Anglo-Saxon language and literature.\n\nLaurence Nowell was born around 1530 in Whalley, Lancashire, the second son of Alexander Nowell of Read Hall and Grace Catterall of Great Mitton, Lancashire. He may have started school at Whalley Abbey and sometime later may have attended Westminster School, where his cousin Alexander Nowell was a master from 1543 on, until in 1549 he attended Christ Church, Oxford, where he received an M.A. in 1552. He travelled to Paris, in 1553, then to Rouen, Antwerp, Louvain, Geneva, Venice, Padua and Rome by 1557/58. Another round of extensive travelling ensued, this time around England, Ireland and perhaps Wales, in the company of William Lambarde, during and/or after which he gathered information on Anglo-Saxon manuscripts and English place-names.\n\nBy 1563, he was living in the London house of his patron, Sir William Cecil. Nowell had been made the tutor of Cecil's ward, Edward de Vere, the seventeenth Earl of Oxford.\n\nNowell devoted much effort in the 1560s to a large-scale atlas of Anglo-Saxon Britain, though he never completed the work. For Cecil, he made the first accurate cartographic survey of the east coast of Ireland, as well as presenting him, in 1563/64, with a small, accurate pocket-sized map of Britain, entitled \"A general description of England and Ireland with the costes adioyning\" which Cecil supposedly always carried with him.\n\nNowell also collected and transcribed Anglo-Saxon documents and compiled the first Anglo-Saxon dictionary, the \"Vocabularium Saxonicum\". In 1563, he came into possession of the only extant manuscript of \"Beowulf\". The manuscript is bound in what is still known as the Nowell Codex (Cotton Vitellius A. xv). He also studied the Exeter Book, annotating folios 9r and 10r amongst others.\n\nIn 1568 Lambarde, with Nowell's encouragement, published a collection of Anglo-Saxon laws, \"Archaionomia\", which was printed by John Day. In the introduction he acknowledges Nowell's contribution. This publication included a woodcut map depicting the seven kingdoms of Anglo-Saxon England, which is thought to be the first map of any sort (\"Lambardes map\") to have been designed, printed and published in England, and which is very likely to have been the work of Laurence Nowell.\n\nNowell, probably realising that he was not going to be given the preferment he sought from Cecil, decided to visit the Continent to study (and possibly to become a diplomat) in 1568, and died there between 1570 and 1572. His books and manuscripts passed into the possession of William Lambarde.\n\nShannon makes the claim that Nowell had \"a butterfly mind\", and fell into the scholar's trap of rarely finishing a project or publishing anything. Despite this, he also makes the claim that \" Nowell was a pioneer in the Anglo-Saxon language, in place-name studies, and in map-making, and that he can be claimed with justification to have single-handedly invented the idea of historical cartography.\"\n\nTwo 16th-century English cousins, one an antiquarian and the other a churchman, were named Laurence Nowell. Their biographies were confused from the 17th century. Both William Dugdale and Anthony Wood made the mistake, and it persisted through the \"Dictionary of National Biography\" and into the twentieth century. In the 1970s, however, Retha Warnicke's analysis of a 1571 court case made it clear that there were two different Laurence Nowells, and their biographies have since been disentangled.\n\n"}
{"id": "43545521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43545521", "title": "Lions at the Dvortsovaya pier", "text": "Lions at the Dvortsovaya pier\n\nThe Lions at the Dvortsovaya pier are two lion sculptures in bronze placed at the Admiralty embankment in Saint Petersburg since 1832. The lions are copies of the late 16th century Italian Medici lions in Florence.\n\nThe lions are the best known among several Medici lions and other lion sculptures in Saint Petersburg. The sculptures were created by the German craftsman, Johan Gottlieb Prang to designs by sculptor Ivan Prokofiev.\n\n"}
{"id": "327800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=327800", "title": "Lipstick lesbian", "text": "Lipstick lesbian\n\nA lipstick lesbian is slang for a lesbian who exhibits a greater amount of feminine gender attributes relative to other gender expressions, such as wearing make-up (thus, \"lipstick\"), wearing dresses or skirts and having other characteristics associated with feminine women. In popular usage, the term \"lipstick lesbian\" is also used to characterize the feminine gender expression of bisexual women who are romantically or sexually interested in other women, or to the broader topic of female-female sexual activity among feminine women.\n\nThe term \"lipstick lesbian\" was used in San Francisco at least as far back as the 1980s. In 1982, Priscilla Rhoades, a journalist with the gay newspaper \"The Sentinel\", wrote a feature story on \"Lesbians for Lipstick\". In 1990, the gay newspaper \"OutWeek\" covered the Lesbian Ladies Society, a Washington, D.C.–based social group of \"feminine lesbians\" that required women to wear a dress or skirt to its functions. The term is thought to have emerged in wide usage during the early 1990s. A 1997 episode of the television show \"Ellen\" widely publicized the phrase. In the show, Ellen DeGeneres's character, asked by her parents whether a certain woman is a \"dipstick lesbian\", explains that the term is \"lipstick lesbian\", and comments that \"I would be a chapstick lesbian.\" An alternate term for \"lipstick lesbian\" is \"doily dyke\".\n\nSome authors have commented that the term \"lipstick lesbian\" is commonly used broadly to refer feminine bisexual women or to heterosexual women who temporarily show romantic or sexual interest in other women to impress men; for example, Jodie Brian, in the 2009 \"Encyclopedia of Gender and Society, Volume 1\", states, \"A common depiction of lipstick lesbianism includes conventionally attractive and sexually insatiable women who desire one another but only insofar as their desire is a performance for male onlookers or a precursor to sex with men.\" In \"Intersectionality, Sexuality and Psychological Therapies\", the term \"lipstick lesbian\" is defined as \"a lesbian/bisexual woman who exhibits 'feminine' attributes such as wearing makeup, dresses and high heeled shoes\"; the book adds that \"more recent iterations of feminine forms of lesbianism such as 'femme' (e.g. wears dresses/skirts or form-fitting jeans, low cut tops, makeup, jewellery), or 'lipstick lesbian' [...], are an attempt to define as both lesbian and feminine.\" Author M Galupo Paz stated, \"Young women exposed to mainstream media outlets are seeing expressions of the same-sex desire between women much more frequently than ever before. However, mainstream images of same-sex desire between women are very specific, meaning they are often of hyper-feminine women ('lipstick lesbians').\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39315095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39315095", "title": "List of American feminist literature", "text": "List of American feminist literature\n\nFeminist literature is fiction or nonfiction which supports the feminist goals of defining, establishing and defending equal civil, political, economic and social rights for women. It often identifies women's roles as unequal to those of menparticularly as regards status, privilege and powerand generally portrays the consequences to women, men, families, communities and societies as undesirable.\n\nThe following is a list of American feminist literature listed by year of first publication, then within the year alphabetically by title. Books and magazines are in italics, all other types of literature are not and are in quotation marks. References lead when possible to a link to the full text of the literature.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4167079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4167079", "title": "Louisiana Creole people", "text": "Louisiana Creole people\n\nLouisiana Creole people (, ), are persons descended from the inhabitants of colonial Louisiana during the period of both French and Spanish rule. The term \"creole\" was originally used by French settlers to distinguish persons born in Louisiana from those born in the mother country or elsewhere. As in many other colonial societies around the world, \"creole\" was a term used to mean those who were \"native-born\", especially native-born Europeans such as the French and Spanish. It also came to be applied to African-descended slaves and Native Americans who were born in Louisiana. Louisiana Creoles share cultural ties such as the traditional use of the French and Louisiana Creole languages and predominant practice of Catholicism.\n\nStarting with the native-born children of the French, then later the Spanish in Louisiana, 'Creole' came to be used to describe these Louisiana-born people of full European descent. Creole has its roots in Latin America meaning native-born. Creole was used casually as an identity in the 1700's in Louisiana. Starting in the very early 1800's in Louisiana, Creole began to take on a more political meaning and solid identity, especially for those of Latinate culture versus the newly arriving Americans from the Upper South and the North. In the early 19th century, amid the Haitian Revolution, thousands of refugees (both whites and free people of color from Saint-Domingue (affranchis or gens de couleur libres) arrived in New Orleans, often bringing their African slaves with them and essentially doubling the city's population. As more refugees were allowed in Louisiana, Haitian émigrés who had first gone to Cuba also arrived. These groups had strong influences on the city and its culture. Half of the white émigrė population of Haiti settled in Louisiana, especially in the greater New Orleans area. Later immigrants to New Orleans, such as Irish, Germans, and Italians, also married into the Creole groups. However, there was a sizable German creole group of full German descent, centering on the parishes of St. Charles and St. John the Baptist. Over time this group absorbed many French Creoles, who are Louisiana-born whites of colonial heritage. French Creoles made up the majority of white Creoles in Louisiana. Louisiana Creoles are mostly Catholic in religion. Throughout the 19th century, most Creoles spoke French and were strongly connected to French colonial culture. The sizeable Spanish Creole communities of Saint Bernard Parish and Galveztown spoke Spanish. The Malagueños of New Iberia spoke Spanish as well. The Isleños and Malagueños were Louisiana-born whites of creole heritage. (Since the mid-twentieth century, the number of Spanish-speaking Creoles has declined in favor of English speakers, and few people under 80 years old speak Spanish.) They have maintained cultural traditions from the Canary Islands, where their ancestors came from, to the present. However, just like the Spanish Creoles, native languages of all creole groups such as the French Creoles, German Creoles and Creoles of color, have declined over the years in favor of English. The different varieties of Louisiana's Creoles shaped the state's culture, particularly in the southern areas around New Orleans and the plantation districts. Louisiana is known as the Creole State.\n\nWhile the sophisticated Creole society of New Orleans which centered mainly on white Creoles such as the French creoles has historically received much attention, the Cane River area in northwest Louisiana, populated chiefly by Creoles of color, also developed its own strong Creole culture. Other enclaves of Creoles culture have been located in south Louisiana: Frilot Cove, Bois Mallet, Grand Marais, Palmetto, Lawtell, Soileau and others. These communities have had a long history of cultural independence. New Orleans also has had a historical population of Creoles of color as well. Another area where many creoles can be found is within the River Parishes, St. Charles, St. John, and St. James, as many white Creoles such as German Creoles and French Creoles have settled there. Most white Creoles are found in the greater New Orleans region, a seven parish-wide creole cultural area including Orleans Parish, St. Bernard Parish, Jefferson Parish, Plaquemines Parish, St. Charles Parish, St. Tammany Parish and St. John the Baptist Parish. Also, Avoyelles Parish and Evangeline Parish in Acadiana is home to a large white creole population of French descent, known as French Creoles.\n\nThrough both the French and Spanish (late 18th century) regimes, parochial and colonial governments used the term Creole for ethnic French and Spanish born in the New World as opposed to Europe. Parisian French was the predominant language among colonists in early New Orleans.\n\nLater the regional French evolved to contain local phrases and slang terms. The French Creoles spoke what became known as Colonial French. Because of isolation, the language in the colony developed differently from that in France. It was spoken by the ethnic French and Spanish and their Creole descendants.\n\nThe commonly accepted definition of Louisiana Creole today is a person descended from ancestors in Louisiana before the Louisiana Purchase by the United States in 1803. An estimated 7,000 European immigrants settled in Louisiana during the 18th century, one percent of the number of British colonists in the Thirteen Colonies along the Atlantic coast. Louisiana attracted considerably fewer French colonists than did its West Indian colonies. After the crossing of the Atlantic Ocean, which lasted more than two months, the colonists had numerous challenges ahead of them in the Louisiana frontier. Their living conditions were difficult: uprooted, they had to face a new, often hostile, environment, with difficult climate and tropical diseases. Many of these immigrants died during the maritime crossing or soon after their arrival.\n\nHurricanes, unknown in France, periodically struck the coast, destroying whole villages. The Mississippi Delta was plagued with periodic yellow fever epidemics. Europeans also brought the Eurasian diseases of malaria and cholera, which flourished along with mosquitoes and poor sanitation. These conditions slowed colonization. Moreover, French villages and forts were not always sufficient to protect from enemy offensives. Attacks by Native Americans represented a real threat to the groups of isolated colonists. The Natchez killed 250 colonists in Lower Louisiana in retaliation for encroachment by the Europeans. The Natchez warriors took Fort Rosalie (now Natchez, Mississippi) by surprise, killing pregnant women, among others. During the next two years, the French attacked the Natchez in return, causing them to flee or, when captured, be deported as slaves to their Caribbean colony of Saint-Domingue (later Haiti).\n\nAside from French government representatives and soldiers, colonists included mostly young men who were recruited in French ports or in Paris. Some served as indentured servants; they were required to remain in Louisiana for a length of time, fixed by the contract of service, to pay back the cost of passage and board. During this time, they were \"temporary semi-slaves\". To increase the colonial population, the government recruited young Frenchwomen, known as \"filles à la cassette\" (in English, \"casket girls\", referring to the casket or case of belongings they brought with them) to go to the colony to be wed to colonial soldiers. The king financed dowries for each girl. (This practice was similar to events in 17th-century Quebec: about 800 \"filles du roi\" (daughters of the king) were recruited to immigrate to New France under the monetary sponsorship of Louis XIV.)\n\nIn addition, French authorities deported some female criminals to the colony. For example, in 1721, the ship \"La Baleine\" brought close to 90 women of childbearing age from the prison of La Salpêtrière in Paris to Louisiana. Most of the women quickly found husbands among the male residents of the colony. These women, many of whom were most likely prostitutes or felons, were known as \"The Baleine Brides\". Such events inspired \"Manon Lescaut\" (1731), a novel written by the Abbé Prévost, which was later adapted as an opera in the 19th century.\n\nHistorian Joan Martin maintains that there is little documentation that casket girls (considered among the ancestors of French Creoles) were transported to Louisiana. (The Ursuline order of nuns, who were said to chaperone the girls until they married, have denied the casket girl myth as well.) Martin suggests this account was mythical. The system of plaçage that continued into the 19th century resulted in many young white men having women of color as partners and mothers of their children, often before or even after their marriages to white women. French Louisiana also included communities of Swiss and German settlers; however, royal authorities did not refer to \"Louisianans\" but described the colonial population as \"French\" citizens.\n\nThe French colony was ceded to Spain in the Treaty of Paris (1763), following French defeat by the British in the Seven Years' War, which took place on two continents. The Spanish were slow and reluctant in fully occupying the colony, however; and did not do so until 1769. That year Spain abolished Indian slavery. In addition, Spanish liberal manumission policies contributed to the growth of the population of Creoles of Color, particularly in New Orleans. Nearly all of the surviving 18th-century architecture of the Vieux Carré (French Quarter) dates from the Spanish period (the Ursuline Convent an exception). These buildings were designed by French architects, as there were no Spanish architects in Louisiana. The buildings of the French Quarter are of a Mediterranean style also found in southern France.\n\nThe mixed-race Creole descendants, who developed as a third class of Creoles of color (Gens de Couleur Libres), particularly in New Orleans, were strongly influenced by the French Catholic culture. By the end of the 18th century, many mixed-race Creoles had gained education and tended to work in artisan or skilled trades; a relatively high number were property and slave owners. The Louisiana Creole language developed primarily from the influence of French and African languages, enabling slaves from different tribes and colonists to communicate.\n\nSpain ceded Louisiana back to France in 1800 through the Third Treaty of San Ildefonso. Napoleon sold Louisiana (New France) to the United States in the Louisiana Purchase in 1803, following defeat of his forces in Saint-Domingue. He had been trying to regain control of the island colony following a multi-year slave rebellion.\n\nThousands of refugees from the revolution, both whites and \"affranchis\" or \"Gens de Couleur Libres\", arrived in New Orleans, often bringing their African slaves with them. These groups had a strong influence on the city, increasing the number of French speakers, Africans with strong traditional customs, and Creoles of Color. The Haitian Revolution ended in the slaves gaining independence in 1804, establishing the second republic in the Western Hemisphere and the first republic led by black people. While Governor Claiborne and other officials wanted to keep out additional free black men, the French Creoles wanted to increase the French-speaking population. As more refugees were allowed in Louisiana, Haitian émigrés who had first gone to Cuba also arrived. Many of the white Francophones had been deported by officials in Cuba in retaliation for Bonapartist schemes in Spain. After the Purchase, many Americans were also migrating to Louisiana. Later European immigrants included Irish, Germans, and Italians.\n\nDuring the antebellum years, the major commodity crops were sugar and cotton, cultivated on large plantations along the Mississippi River outside the city with slave labor. Plantations were developed in the French style, with narrow waterfronts for access on the river, and long plots running back inland.\n\nNearly 90 percent of early 19th century immigrants to the territory settled in New Orleans. The 1809 migration from Cuba brought 2,731 whites; 3,102 \"Gens de Couleur Libres\"; and 3,226 enslaved persons of African descent, which in total doubled the city's population. The city became 63 percent black in population, a greater proportion than Charleston, South Carolina's 53 percent.\n\nThe transfer of the French colony to the United States and the arrival of Anglo-Americans from New England and the South resulted in a cultural confrontation. Some Americans were reportedly shocked by aspects of the culture and French-speaking society of the newly acquired territory: the predominance of the French language and Roman Catholicism, the free class of mixed-race people, and the strong African traditions of enslaved peoples. They pressured the United States' first governor of the Louisiana Territory, W.C.C. Claiborne, to change it.\n\nParticularly in the slave society of the American South, slavery had become a racial caste. Since the late 17th century, children in the colonies took the status of their mothers at birth; therefore, all children of enslaved mothers were born into slavery, regardless of the race or status of their fathers. This produced many mixed-race slaves over the generations. Whites classified society into whites and blacks (the latter associated strongly with slaves). Although there was a growing population of free people of color, particularly in the Upper South, they generally did not have the same rights and freedoms as Creoles of Color in Louisiana under French and Spanish rule, who held office in some cases and served in the militia. For example, around 80 free Creoles of Color were recruited into the militia that fought in the Battle of Baton Rouge in 1779. And 353 free Creoles of Color were recruited into the militia that fought in the Battle of New Orleans in 1812. Later on, some of the descendants of these Creole of Color veterans of the Battle of New Orleans, like Caesar Antoine, went on to fight in the American Civil War.\n\nWhen Claiborne made English the official language of the territory, the French Creoles of New Orleans were outraged, and reportedly paraded in protest in the streets. They rejected the Americans' effort to transform them overnight. In addition, upper-class French Creoles thought that many of the arriving Americans were uncouth, especially the rough Kentucky boatmen (Kaintucks) who regularly visited the city, having maneuvered flatboats down the Mississippi River filled with goods for market.\n\nRealizing that he needed local support, Claiborne restored French as an official language. In all forms of government, public forums, and in the Catholic Church, French continued to be used. Most importantly, Louisiana French and Louisiana Creole remained the languages of the majority of the population of the state, leaving English and Spanish as minority languages.\n\nColonists referred to themselves and enslaved Black people who were native-born as creole, to distinguish them from new arrivals from France and Spain as well as Africa. American Indians, such as the Creek people, intermixed with Creoles also, making three races present in the ethnic group.\n\nLike \"Cajun,\" the term \"Creole\" is a popular name used to describe cultures in the southern Louisiana area. \"Creole\" can be roughly defined as \"native to a region,\" but its precise meaning varies according to the geographic area in which it is used. Generally, however, Creoles felt the need to distinguish themselves from the influx of American and European immigrants coming into the area after the Louisiana Purchase of 1803. \"Creole\" is still used to describe the heritage and customs of the various people who settled Louisiana during the early French colonial times. In addition to the French Canadians, the amalgamated Creole culture in southern Louisiana includes influences from the Chitimacha, Houma, and other native tribes, enslaved West Africans, Spanish-speaking Isleños (Canary Islanders), and French-speaking \"Gens de Couleur Libres\" from the Caribbean.\n\nAs a group, the mixed-race Creoles rapidly began to acquire education, skills (many in New Orleans worked as craftsmen and artisans), businesses and property. They were overwhelmingly Catholic, spoke Colonial French (although some also spoke Louisiana Creole), and kept up many French social customs, modified by other parts of their ancestry and Louisiana culture. The Creoles of Color often married among themselves to maintain their class and social culture. The French-speaking mixed-race population came to be called \"Creoles of color\". It was said that \"New Orleans persons of color were far wealthier, more secure, and more established than freed unmixed Black Creoles and Cajuns elsewhere in Louisiana.\"\n\nUnder the French and Spanish rulers, Louisiana developed a three-tiered society, similar to that of Haiti, Cuba, Brazil, Saint Lucia, Martinique, Guadeloupe and other Latin colonies. This three-tiered society included white Creoles; a prosperous, educated group of mixed-race Creoles of European and African descent; and the far larger class of African and Black Creole slaves. The status of mixed-race Creoles of color (\"Gens de Couleur Libres\") was one they guarded carefully. By law they enjoyed most of the same rights and privileges as white Creoles. They could and often did challenge the law in court and won cases against white Creoles. They were property owners and created schools for their children. In many cases though, these different tiers viewed themselves as one group, as other Iberoamerican and Francophone ethnic groups commonly did. Race did not play as central a role as it does in Anglo-American culture: oftentimes, race was not a concern, but instead, family standing and wealth were key distinguishing factors in New Orleans and beyond. The Creole civil rights activist Rodolphe Desdunes explained the difference between Creoles and Anglo-Americans, concerning the widespread belief in racialism by the latter, as follows:\n\nThe groups (Latin and Anglo New Orleaneans) had \"two different schools of politics [and differed] radically … in aspiration and method. One hopes [Latins], and the other doubts [Anglos]. Thus we often perceive that one makes every effort to acquire merits, the other to gain advantages. One aspires to equality, the other to identity. One will forget that he is a Negro in order to think that he is a man; the other will forget that he is a man to think that he is a Negro.\"\n\nAfter the United States acquired the area in the Louisiana Purchase, mixed-race Creoles of Color resisted American attempts to impose their binary racial culture. In the American South slavery had become virtually a racial caste, in which most people of any African descent were considered to be lower in status. The planter society viewed it as a binary culture, with whites and blacks (the latter including everyone other than whites, although for some years they counted mulattos separately on censuses).\n\nWhile the American Civil War promised rights and opportunities for the enslaved, the Creoles of Color, who had long been free before the war, worried about losing their identity and position. The Americans did not legally recognize a three-tiered society; nevertheless, some Creoles of Color such as Thomy Lafon, Victor Séjour, and others, used their position to support the abolitionist cause. And the Creole of Color, Francis E. Dumas, emancipated all of his slaves and organized them into a company in the Second Regiment of the Louisiana Native Guards.\nFollowing the Union victory in the Civil War, the Louisiana three-tiered society was gradually overrun by more Anglo-Americans, who classified everyone by the South's binary division of \"black\" and \"white\". During the Reconstruction era, white Democrats regained power in the Louisiana state legislature by using paramilitary groups like the White League to suppress black voting. They enforced white supremacy by passing Jim Crow laws and a constitution near the turn of the 20th century that effectively disenfranchised most blacks and Creoles of color through discriminatory application of voter registration and electoral laws. Some white Creoles, such as the ex-Confederate general Pierre G. T. Beauregard, advocated against racism, and became proponents of Black Civil Rights and Black suffrage, involving themselves in the creation of the Louisiana Unification Movement that called for equal rights for blacks, denounced discrimination, and the abandonment of segregation.\n\nThe US Supreme Court ruling in \"Plessy v. Ferguson\" in 1896 supported the binary society and the policy of \"separate but equal\" facilities (which were seldom achieved in fact) in the segregated South. Some white Creoles, heavily influenced by white American society, increasingly claimed that the term Creole applied to whites only. According to Virginia R. Domínguez:\n\nCharles Gayarré ... and Alcée Fortier ... led the outspoken though desperate defense of the Creole. As bright as these men clearly were, they still became engulfed in the reclassification process intent on salvaging white Creole status. Their speeches consequently read more like sympathetic eulogies than historical analysis.\nSybil Kein suggests that, because of the white Creoles struggle for redefinition, they were particularly hostile to the exploration by the writer George Washington Cable of the multi-racial Creole society in his stories and novels. She believes that in \"The Grandissimes,\" he exposed white Creoles' preoccupation with covering up blood connections with Creoles of Color. She writes:\n\nThere was a veritable explosion of defenses of Creole ancestry. The more novelist George Washington Cable engaged his characters in family feuds over inheritance, embroiled them in sexual unions with blacks and mulattoes, and made them seem particularly defensive about their presumably pure Caucasian ancestry, the more vociferously the white Creoles responded, insisting on purity of white ancestry as a requirement for identification as Creole.\n\nIn the 1930s, populist Governor Huey Long satirized such Creole claims, saying that you could feed all the \"pure white\" people in New Orleans with a cup of beans and a half a cup of rice, and still have food left over! The effort to impose Anglo-American binary racial classification on Creoles continued, however. In 1938, in \"Sunseri v. Cassagne\"—the Louisiana Supreme Court proclaimed traceability of African ancestry to be the only requirement for definition of colored. And during her time as Registrar of the Bureau of Vital Statistics for the City of New Orleans (1949–1965), Naomi Drake tried to impose these binary racial classifications. She unilaterally changed records to classify mixed-race individuals as black if she found they had any black (or African) ancestry, an application of hypodescent rules, and did not notify people of her actions.\n\nAmong the practices Drake directed was having her workers check obituaries. They were to assess whether the obituary of a person identified as white provided clues that might help show the individual was \"really\" black, such as having black relatives, services at a traditionally black funeral home, or burial at a traditionally black cemetery—evidence which she would use to ensure the death certificate classified the person as black.\n\nNot everyone accepted Drake's actions, and people filed thousands of cases against the office to have racial classifications changed and to protest her withholding legal documents of vital records. This caused much embarrassment and disruption, finally causing the city to fire her in 1965.\n\nLouisiana Creole cuisine is recognized as a unique style of cooking originating in New Orleans, starting in the early 1700s. It makes use of what is sometimes called the Holy trinity: onions, celery, and green peppers. It has developed primarily from various European, African, and Native American historic culinary influences. A distinctly different style of Creole or Cajun cooking exists in Acadiana.\n\nGumbo (\"Gombô\", in Louisiana Creole, \"Gombo\", in Louisiana French) is a traditional Creole dish from New Orleans with French, Spanish, Native American, African, German, Filipino, Italian and Caribbean influences. It is a roux-based meat stew or soup, sometimes made with some combination of any of the following: seafood (usually shrimp, crabs, with oysters optional, or occasionally crawfish), sausage, chicken (hen or rooster), alligator, turtle, rabbit, duck, deer or wild boar. Gumbo is often seasoned with filé, which is dried and ground sassafras leaves. Both meat and seafood versions also include the \"Holy Trinity\" and are served like stew over rice. It developed from French colonists trying to make \"bouillabaisse\" with New World ingredients. Starting with aromatic seasonings, the French used onions and celery as in a traditional \"mirepoix\", but lacked carrots, so they substituted green bell peppers. Africans contributed okra, traditionally grown in regions of Africa, the Middle East and Spain. \"Gombo\" is the Louisiana French word for okra, which is derived from a shortened version of the Bantu words \"kilogombó\" or \"kigambó,\" also \"guingambó\" or \"quinbombó\". \"Gumbo\" became the anglicized version of the word 'Gombo' after the English language became dominant in Louisiana. In Louisiana French dialects, the word \"gombo\" still refers to both the hybrid stew and the vegetable. The Choctaw contributed \"filé\"; the Spanish contributed peppers and tomatoes; and new spices were adopted from Caribbean dishes. The French later favored a \"roux\" for thickening. In the 19th century, the Italians added garlic. After arriving in numbers, German immigrants dominated New Orleans city bakeries, including those making traditional French bread. They introduced having buttered French bread as a side to eating gumbo, as well as a side of German-style potato salad.\n\nJambalaya is the second of the famous Louisiana Creole dishes. It developed in the European communities of New Orleans. It combined ham with sausage, rice and tomato as a variation of the Spanish dish \"paella,\" and was based on locally available ingredients. The name for jambalaya comes from the Occitan language spoken in southern France, where it means \"mash-up.\" The term also refers to a type of rice cooked with chicken.\n\nToday, jambalaya is commonly made with seafood (usually shrimp) or chicken, or a combination of shrimp and chicken. Most versions contain smoked sausage, more commonly used instead of ham in modern versions. However, a version of jambalaya that uses ham with shrimp may be closer to the original Creole dish.\n\nJambalaya is prepared in two ways: \"red\" and \"brown\". Red is the tomato-based version native to New Orleans; it is also found in parts of Iberia and St. Martin parishes, and generally uses shrimp or chicken stock. The red-style Creole jambalaya is the original version. The \"brown\" version is associated with Cajun cooking and does not include tomatoes.\n\nRed beans and rice is a dish of Louisiana and Caribbean influence, originating in New Orleans. It contains red beans, the \"holy trinity\" of onion, celery, and bell pepper, and often \"andouille\" smoked sausage, pickled pork, or smoked ham hocks. The beans are served over white rice. It is one of the famous dishes in Louisiana, and is associated with \"washday Monday\". It could be cooked all day over a low flame while the women of the house attended to washing the family's clothes.\n\n\"Zydeco\" (a transliteration in English of 'zaricô' (snapbeans) from the song, \"Les haricots sont pas salés\"), was born in black Creole communities on the prairies of southwest Louisiana in the 1920s. It is often considered the Creole music of Louisiana. Zydeco, a derivative of Cajun music, purportedly hails from \"Là-là,\" a genre of music now defunct, and old south Louisiana \"jurés.\" As Louisiana French and Louisiana Creole was the \"lingua franca\" of the prairies of southwest Louisiana, zydeco was initially sung only in Louisiana French or Creole. Later, Louisiana Creoles, such as the 20th-century Chénier brothers, Andrus Espree (Beau Jocque), Rosie Lédet and others began incorporating a more bluesy sound and added a new linguistic element to zydeco music: English. Today, zydeco musicians sing in English, Louisiana Creole, or Colonial Louisiana French.\n\nToday's Zydeco often incorporates a blend of swamp pop, blues, and/or jazz, as well as \"Cajun Music\" (originally called Old Louisiana French Music). An instrument unique to zydeco is a form of washboard called the \"frottoir\" or scrub board. This is a vest made of corrugated aluminum, and played by the musician working bottle openers, bottle caps, or spoons up and down the length of the vest. Another instrument used in both Zydeco and Cajun music since the 1800s is the accordion. Zydeco music makes use of the piano or button accordion while Cajun music is played on the diatonic accordion, or Cajun accordion, often called a \"squeeze box\". Cajun musicians also use the fiddle and steel guitar more often than do those playing Zydeco.\n\nZydeco can be traced to the music of enslaved African people from the 19th century. It is represented in \"Slave Songs of the United States,\" first published in 1867. The final seven songs in that work are printed with melody along with text in Louisiana Creole. These and many other songs were sung by slaves on plantations, especially in St. Charles Parish, and when they gathered on Sundays at Congo Square in New Orleans.\n\nAmong the Spanish Creole people highlights, between their varied traditional folklore, the Canarian Décimas, romances, ballads and pan-Hispanic songs date back many years, even to the Medieval Age. This folklore was carried by their ancestors from the Canary Islands to Louisiana in the 18th century. It also highlights their adaptation to the Isleño music to other music outside of the community (especially from the Mexican Corridos).\n\nLouisiana French (LF) is the regional variety of the French language spoken throughout contemporary Louisiana by individuals who today identify ethno-racially as Creole, Cajun or French, as well as some who identify as Spanish (particularly in New Iberia and Baton Rouge, where the Creole people are a mix of French and Spanish and speak the French language), African-American, white, Irish, or other origins. Individuals and groups of individuals through innovation, adaptation, and contact, continually enrich the French language spoken in Louisiana, seasoning it with linguistic features that can sometimes only be found in Louisiana.\n\nTulane University's Department of French and Italian website prominently declares \"In Louisiana, French is not a foreign language\".\nFigures from U.S. decennial censuses report that roughly 250,000 Louisianans claimed to use or speak French in their homes.\n\nLouisiana Creole (\"Kréyol La Lwizyàn\") is a French Creole language spoken by the Louisiana Creole people and sometimes Cajuns and Anglo-residents of the state of Louisiana. The language consists of elements of French, Spanish, African, and Native American roots.\n\nAmong the eighteen governors of Louisiana between 1803–1865, six were French Creoles and spoke French: Jacques Villeré, Pierre Derbigny, Armand Beauvais, Jacques Dupré, Andre B. Roman, and Alexandre Mouton.\n\nAccording to the historian Paul Lachance, \"the addition of white immigrants to the white creole population enabled French-speakers to remain a majority of the white population <nowiki>[in New Orleans]</nowiki> until almost 1830. If a substantial proportion of Creoles of Color and slaves had not also spoken French, however, the Gallic community would have become a minority of the total population as early as 1820.\" In the 1850s, white Francophones remained an intact and vibrant community; they maintained instruction in French in two of the city's four school districts. In 1862, the Union general Ben Butler abolished French instruction in New Orleans schools, and statewide measures in 1864 and 1868 further cemented the policy. By the end of the 19th century, French usage in the city had faded significantly. However, as late as 1902 \"one-fourth of the population of the city <nowiki>spoke</nowiki> French in ordinary daily intercourse, while another two-fourths <nowiki>was</nowiki> able to understand the language perfectly,\" and as late as 1945, one still encountered elderly Creole women who spoke no English. The last major French-language newspaper in New Orleans, \"L'Abeille de la Nouvelle-Orléans\", ceased publication on December 27, 1923, after ninety-six years; according to some sources \"Le Courrier de la Nouvelle Orleans\" continued until 1955.\n\nToday, it is generally in more rural areas that people continue to speak Louisiana French or Louisiana Creole. Also during the '40s and '50s many Creoles left Louisiana to find work in Texas, mostly in Houston and East Texas. The language and music is widely spoken there; the 5th ward of Houston was originally called Frenchtown due to that reason. There were also Zydeco clubs started in Houston, like the famed Silver Slipper owned by a Creole named Alfred Cormier that has hosted the likes of Clifton Chenier and Boozoo Chavais.\n\nOn the other hand, Spanish usage has fallen markedly over the years among the Spanish Creoles. Still, in the first half of twentieth century, most of the people of Saint Bernard and Galveztown spoke the Spanish language with the Canarian Spanish dialect (the ancestors of these Creoles were from the Canary Islands) of the 18th century, but the government of Louisiana imposed the use of English in these communities, especially in the schools (e.g. Saint Bernard) where if a teacher heard children speaking Spanish she would fine them and punish them. Now, only some people over the age of 80 can speak Spanish in these communities. Most of the youth of Saint Bernard can only speak English.\n\nMardi Gras (Fat Tuesday in English) in New Orleans, Louisiana, is a Carnival celebration well known throughout the world. It has colonial French roots.\n\nThe New Orleans Carnival season, with roots in preparing for the start of the Christian season of Lent, starts after Twelfth Night, on Epiphany (January 6). It is a season of parades, balls (some of them masquerade balls), and king cake parties. It has traditionally been part of the winter social season; at one time \"coming out\" parties for young women at débutante balls were timed for this season.\n\nCelebrations are concentrated for about two weeks before and through Fat Tuesday (\"Mardi Gras\" in French), the day before Ash Wednesday. Usually there is one major parade each day (weather permitting); many days have several large parades. The largest and most elaborate parades take place the last five days of the season. In the final week of Carnival, many events large and small occur throughout New Orleans and surrounding communities.\n\nThe parades in New Orleans are organized by Carnival \"krewes\". Krewe float riders toss \"throws\" to the crowds; the most common throws are strings of plastic colorful beads, doubloons (aluminum or wooden dollar-sized coins usually impressed with a krewe logo), decorated plastic \"throw cups\", and small inexpensive toys. Major krewes follow the same parade schedule and route each year.\n\nWhile many tourists center their Mardi Gras season activities on Bourbon Street and the French Quarter, none of the major Mardi Gras parades has entered the Quarter since 1972 because of its narrow streets and overhead obstructions. Instead, major parades originate in the Uptown and Mid-City districts and follow a route along St. Charles Avenue and Canal Street, on the upriver side of the French Quarter.\n\nTo New Orleanians, \"Mardi Gras\" specifically refers to the Tuesday before Lent, the highlight of the season. The term can also be used less specifically for the whole Carnival season, sometimes as \"the Mardi Gras season\". The terms \"Fat Tuesday\" or \"Mardi Gras Day\" always refer only to that specific day.\n\nWhile the sophisticated Creole society of New Orleans has historically received much attention, the Cane River area developed its own strong Creole culture. The Cane River Creole community in the northern part of the state, along the Red River and Cane River, is made up of multi-racial descendants of French, Spanish, Africans, Native Americans, similar mixed Creole migrants from New Orleans, and various other ethnic groups who inhabited this region in the 18th and early 19th centuries. The community is located in and around Isle Brevelle in lower Natchitoches Parish, Louisiana. There are many Creole communities within Natchitoches Parish, including Natchitoches, Cloutierville, Derry, Gorum, and Natchez. Many of their historic plantations still exist. Some have been designated as National Historic Landmarks, and are noted within the Cane River National Heritage Area, as well as the Cane River Creole National Historical Park. Some plantations are sites on the Louisiana African American Heritage Trail.\n\nIsle Brevelle, the area of land between Cane River and Bayou Brevelle, encompasses approximately of land, 16,000 acres of which are still owned by descendants of the original Creole families. The Cane River as well as Avoyelles and St.Landry Creole family surnames include but are not limited to: Antee, Anty, Arceneaux, Arnaud, Balthazar, Barre', Bayonne, Beaudoin, Bellow, Bernard, Biagas, Bossier, Boyér, Brossette, Buard, Byone, Carriere, Cassine, Chevalier, Christophe, Cloutier, Colson, Colston, Conde, Conant, Coutée, Cyriak, Cyriaque, Damas, DeBòis, DeCuir, Deculus, Delphin, De Sadier, De Soto, Dubreil, Dunn, Dupré. Esprit, Fredieu, Fuselier, Gallien, Goudeau, Gravés, Guillory, Hebert, Honoré, Hughes, LaCaze, LaCour, Lambre', Landry, Laurent, LéBon, Lefìls, Lemelle, LeRoux, Le Vasseur, Llorens, Mathés, Mathis, Métoyer, Mezière, Monette, Moran, Mullone, Pantallion, Papillion, Porche, PrudHomme, Rachal, Ray, Reynaud, Roque, Sarpy, Sers, Severin, Simien, St. Romain, St. Ville, Sylvie, Sylvan, Tyler, Vachon, Vercher and Versher. (Most of the surnames are of French and sometimes Spanish origin).\n\nAnother historic area to Louisiana is Pointe Coupee, an area northwest of Baton Rouge. This area is known for the False River; the parish seat is New Roads, and villages including Morganza are located off the river. This parish is known to be uniquely Creole; today a large portion of the nearly 22,000 residents can trace Creole ancestry. The area was noted for its many plantations and cultural life during the French, Spanish, and American colonial periods.\n\nThe population here had become bilingual or even trilingual with French, Louisiana Creole, and English because of its plantation business before most of Louisiana. The Louisiana Creole language is widely associated with this parish; the local mainland French and Creole (i.e., locally born) plantation owners and their African slaves formed it as communication language, which became the primary language for many Pointe Coupee residents well into the 20th century. The local white and black populations as well as persons of blended ethnicity spoke the language, because of its importance to the region; Italian immigrants in the 19th century often adopted the language.\n\nCommon Creole family names of the region include the following: Aguillard, Amant, Bergeron, Bonaventure, Boudreaux, Carmouche, Chenevert, Christophe, Decuir, Domingue, Duperon, Eloi, Elloie, Ellois, Fabre, Francois, Gaines, Gremillion, Guerin, Jarreau, Joseph, Morel, Olinde, Porche, Pourciau, St. Patin, St. Romain, Tounoir, Valéry, and dozens more.\n\nBrian J. Costello, an 11th generation Pointe Coupee Parish Creole, is the premiere historian, author and archivist on Pointe Coupee's Creole population, language, social and material culture. Most of his 19 solely-authored books, six co-authored books and numerous feature articles and participation in documentaries since 1987 have addressed these topics. He was immersed in the area's Louisiana Creole dialect in his childhood, through inter-familial and community immersion and is, therefore, one of the dialect's most fluent, and last, speakers.\n\nAvoyelles Parish has a history rich in Creole ancestry. Marksville has a significant populace of French Creoles who have Native American ancestry. The languages that are spoken are Louisiana French and English. This parish was established in 1750. The Creole community in Avoyelles parish is alive and well and has a unique blend of family, food and Creole culture. Creole family names of this region are: Auzenne, Barbin, Beaudoin, Biagas, Bordelon, Boutte, Broussard, Carriere, Chargois, DeBellevue, DeCuir, Deshotels, Dufour, DuCote, Esprit, Fontenot, Fuselier, Gaspard, Gauthier, Goudeau, Gremillion, Guillory, Lamartiniere, Lemelle, Lemoine, LeRoux, Mayeux, Mouton, Moten, Muellon, Normand, Perrie, Rabalais, Ravarre, Saucier, Sylvan and Tyler. A French Creole Heritage day has been held annually in Avoyelles Parish on Bastille Day since 2012.\n\nEvangeline Parish was formed out of the northwestern part of St. Landry Parish in 1910, and is therefore, a former part of the old Poste des Opelousas territory. Most of this region's population was a direct result of the North American Creole & Métis influx of 1763, the result of the end of the French & Indian War which saw former French colonial settlements from as far away as \"Upper Louisiana\" (Great Lakes region, Indiana, Illinois) to \"Lower Louisiana's\" (Illinois, Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama), ceded to British America. \nThe majority of these French Creoles and Métis peoples chose to leave their former homes electing to head for the only 'French' exempted settlement area in Lower Louisiana, the \"Territory of Orleans\" or the modern State of Louisiana.\nThese Creoles and Métis families generally did not remain in New Orleans and opted for settlement in the northwestern \"Creole parishes\" of higher ground. This area reaches upwards to Pointe Coupee, St. Landry, Avoyelles and what became Evangeline Parish in 1910. Along with these diverse Métis & Creole families came West Indian slaves (Caribbean people).\n\nStill later, Saint-Domingue/Haitian Creoles, Napoleonic soldiers, and 19th century French families would also settle this region.\nOne of Napoleon Bonaparte's adjutant majors is actually considered the founder of Ville Platte, the parish seat of Evangeline Parish. General Antoine Paul Joseph Louis Garrigues de Flaugeac and his fellow Napoleonic soldiers, Benoit DeBaillon, Louis Van Hille, and Wartelle's descendants also settled in St. Landry Parish and became important public, civic, and political figures. They were discovered on the levee in tattered uniforms by a wealthy Creole planter, \"Grand Louis' Fontenot of St. Landry (and what is now, Evangeline Parish), a descendant of one of Governor Jean-Batiste LeMoyne, Sieur de Bienville's French officers from Fort Toulouse, in what is now the State of Alabama.\n\nMany Colonial French, Swiss German, Austrian, and Spanish Creole surnames still remain among prominent and common families alike in Evangeline Parish. Some later Irish and Italian names also appear. Surnames such as, Ardoin, Aguillard, Mouton, Bordelon, Brignac, Brunet, Buller (Buhler), Catoire, Chapman, Coreil, Darbonne, DeBaillion, DeVille, DeVilliers, Duos, Dupre' Estillette, Fontenot, Guillory, Gradney, LaFleur, Landreneau, LaTour, LeBas, LeBleu, LeRoux, Milano-Hebert, Miller, Morein, Moreau, Moten, Mounier, Ortego, Perrodin, Pierotti, Pitre (rare Acadian-Creole), Rozas, Saucier, Schexnayder, Sebastien, Sittig, Soileau,Vidrine, Vizinat, and many more are reminiscent of the late French Colonial, early Spanish and later American period of this region's history.\n\nAs of 2013, the parish was once again recognized by the March 2013 Regular Session of the Louisiana Legislature as part of the Creole Parishes, with the passage of SR No. 30. Other parishes so recognized include Avoyelles, St. Landry, and Pointe Coupee Parishes. Natchitoches Parish also remains recognized as \"Creole\".\n\nEvangeline Parish's French-speaking Senator, Eric LaFleur sponsored SR No. 30 which was written by Louisiana French Creole scholar, educator and author, John laFleur II. The parish's namesake of \"Evangeline\" is a reflection of the affection the parish's founder, Paulin Fontenot had for Henry Wadsworth's famous poem of the same name, and not an indication of the parish's ethnic origin. The adoption of \"Cajun\" by the residents of this parish reflects both the popular commerce as well as media conditioning, since this northwestern region of the French-speaking triangle was never part of the Acadian settlement region of the Spanish period.\n\nThe community now hosts an annual \"Creole Families Bastille Day (weekend) Heritage & Honorarium Festival in which a celebration of Louisiana's multi-ethnic French Creoles is held, with Catholic mass, Bastille Day Champagne toasting of honorees who've worked in some way to preserve and promote the French Creole heritage and language traditions. Louisiana authors, Creole food, and cultural events featuring scholarly lectures and historical information along with fun for families with free admission, and vendor booths are also a feature of this very interesting festival which unites all French Creoles who share this common culture and heritage.\n\nSt. Landry Parish has a significant population of Creoles, especially in Opelousas and its surrounding areas. The traditions and Creole heritage are prevalent in Opelousas, Port Barre, Melville, Palmetto, Lawtell, Eunice, Swords, Mallet, Frilot Cove, Plaisance, Pitreville, and many other villages, towns and communities. The Roman Catholic Church and French/Creole language are dominant features of this rich culture. Zydeco musicians host festivals all through the year. Some Creole family names are: Antoine, Arceneaux, Ardoin, Aubespin, Auzenne, Barnabe, Birotte, Bossier, Breaux, Bushnell, Carrier(e), Caesar (Ceaser), Cezar, Chachere, Chargois, Charlot, Chavis, Chenier, Chevalier, Chretien, Coutee, Craven, Cravins, Darbonne, Darjean, Declouette, Deculus, Delafosse, Dupre, Durousseau, Esprit, Fontenot, Frank, Frilot, Frugé, Fuselier, Gallow, Gobert, Gradney, Gradnigo, Guilbeaux, Guillory, Hollier, Jardoin, Jolivette, Jolivet, LaChapelle, LaFleur, LaStrapes, Lavergne, Lavigne, Leblanc, LeBon, Lecompte, Ledet, Lemelle, Lemon(d), LeRoux, Vidrine, Moten, Moton, Mouton, Pain, Papillion, Poullard, Piert, Rene, Rideau,Richard, Rosignon (Rousillion), Simien, Soileau, Sonnier, St. Mary, Thierry, Valmont, Vallair and Villere.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "64240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64240", "title": "Mobutu Sese Seko", "text": "Mobutu Sese Seko\n\nMobutu Sese Seko Kuku Ngbendu Wa Za Banga (; born Joseph-Désiré Mobutu; 14 October 1930 – 7 September 1997) was the military dictator and President of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (which he renamed Zaire in 1971) from 1965 to 1997. He also served as Chairman of the Organisation of African Unity in 1967–1968.\n\nDuring the Congo Crisis, Mobutu, serving as chief of staff of the army and supported by Belgium and the United States, deposed the nationalist government of Patrice Lumumba in 1960. Mobutu installed a government that arranged for Lumumba's execution in 1961. Mobutu continued to lead the country's armed forces until he took power directly in a second coup in 1965. As part of his program of \"national authenticity\", he changed the Congo's name to \"Zaire\" in 1971, and his own name to Mobutu Sese Seko in 1972.\n\nMobutu developed a totalitarian regime, amassed vast personal wealth, and attempted to purge the country of all colonial cultural influence. At the same time, he was given considerable support by the West and China, owing to his strong anti-Soviet stance. He was the object of a pervasive cult of personality. During his reign, Mobutu amassed a large personal fortune through economic exploitation and corruption, leading some to call his rule a \"kleptocracy\". The nation suffered from uncontrolled inflation, a large debt, and massive currency devaluations. By 1991, economic deterioration and unrest led him to agree to share power with opposition leaders, but he used the army to thwart change until May 1997, when rebel forces led by Laurent-Désiré Kabila expelled him from the country. Already suffering from advanced prostate cancer, he died three months later in Morocco.\n\nMarshal Mobutu became notorious for corruption, nepotism, and the embezzlement of between US$4 billion and $15 billion during his reign. He was known for extravagances such as shopping trips to Paris via the supersonic and expensive Concorde. He presided over the country for more than three decades, a period of widespread human rights violations. In 2011, \"Time\" magazine described him as the \"archetypal African dictator\".\n\nMobutu, a member of the Ngbandi ethnic group, was born in 1930 in Lisala, Belgian Congo. Mobutu's mother, Marie Madeleine Yemo, was a hotel maid who fled to Lisala to escape the harem of a local village chief. There she met and married Albéric Gbemani, a cook for a Belgian judge. Shortly afterward she gave birth to Mobutu. The name \"Mobutu\" was selected by an uncle.\n\nGbemani died when Mobutu was eight. Thereafter he was raised by an uncle and a grandfather.\n\nThe wife of the Belgian judge took a liking to Mobutu and taught him to speak, read, and write fluently in the French language. Yemo relied on the help of relatives to support her four children, and the family moved often. Mobutu's earliest education took place in Léopoldville, but his mother eventually sent him to an uncle in Coquilhatville, where he attended the Christian Brothers School, a Catholic-mission boarding school. A physically imposing figure, Mobutu dominated school sports. He also excelled in academic subjects and ran the class newspaper. He was known for his pranks and impish sense of humor. A classmate recalled that when the Belgian priests, whose first language was Dutch, made an error in French, Mobutu would leap to his feet in class and point out the mistake. Mobutu stowed away aboard a boat to Léopoldville in 1949, where he met a girl. The priests found him several weeks later. At the end of the school year, in lieu of being sent to prison, he was ordered to serve seven years in the colonial army, the Force Publique (FP). This was the usual punishment for rebellious students.\n\nMobutu found discipline in army life, as well as a father figure in Sergeant Louis Bobozo. Mobutu kept up his studies by borrowing European newspapers from the Belgian officers and books from wherever he could find them, reading them on sentry duty and whenever he had a spare moment. His favorites were the writings of French president Charles de Gaulle, British prime minister Winston Churchill, and Italian Renaissance philosopher Niccolò Machiavelli. After passing a course in accounting, Mobutu began to dabble professionally in journalism. Still angry after his clashes with the school priests, he did not marry in a church. His contribution to the wedding festivities was a crate of beer, all his army salary could afford.\n\nAs a soldier, Mobutu wrote pseudonymously on contemporary politics for \"Actualités Africaines\" (African News), a magazine set up by a Belgian colonial. In 1956, he quit the army and became a full-time journalist, writing for the Léopoldville daily \"L'Avenir\". \n\nTwo years later, he went to Belgium to cover the 1958 World Exposition and stayed to receive training in journalism. By this time, Mobutu had met many of the young Congolese intellectuals who were challenging colonial rule. He became friendly with Patrice Lumumba and joined Lumumba's Mouvement National Congolais (MNC). Mobutu eventually became Lumumba's personal aide. Several contemporaries indicate that Belgian intelligence had recruited Mobutu to be an informer to the government.\n\nDuring the 1960 talks in Brussels on Congolese independence, the US embassy held a reception for the Congolese delegation. Embassy staff were each assigned a list of delegation members to meet, and discussed their impressions afterward. The ambassador noted, \"One name kept coming up. But it wasn't on anyone's list because he wasn't an official delegation member, he was Lumumba's secretary. But everyone agreed that this was an extremely intelligent man, very young, perhaps immature, but a man with great potential.\"\n\nFollowing the general election, Lumumba was tasked with creating a government. He gave Mobutu the office of Secretary of State to the Presidency. Mobutu held much influence in the final determination of the rest of the government.\n\nOn 5 July soldiers of the Force Publique stationed at Camp Léopold II in Léopoldville, dissatisfied with their all-white leadership and working conditions, mutinied. The revolt spread across the region in the following days. Mobutu assisted other officials in negotiating with the mutineers to secure the release of the officers and their families. On 8 July the full Council of Ministers convened in an extraordinary session under the chairmanship of President Joseph Kasa-Vubu at Camp Léopold II to address the task of Africanising the garrison. \n\nAfter allowing for the election of a new commandant for the garrison, the ministers debated over who would make a suitable army chief of staff. The two main candidates for the post were Maurice Mpolo and Mobutu. The former had shown some influence over the mutinying troops, but Kasa-Vubu and the Bakongo ministers feared that he would enact a \"coup d'état\" if he were given power. The latter was perceived as calmer and more thoughtful. Lumumba saw Mpolo as courageous, but favored Mobutu's prudence. As the discussions continued, the cabinet began to divide according to who they preferred to serve as chief of staff. Lumumba wanted to keep both men in his government and wished to avoid upsetting one of their camps of supporters. In the end Mobutu was given the role and awarded the rank of colonel. The following day government delegations left the capital to oversee the Africanisation of the army; Mobutu was sent to Équateur.\n\nEncouraged by a Belgian government intent on maintaining its access to rich Congolese mines, secessionist violence erupted in the south. Concerned that the United Nations force sent to help restore order was not helping to crush the secessionists, Lumumba turned to the Soviet Union for assistance. He received massive military aid and about a thousand Soviet technical advisers within six weeks. As this was during the Cold War, the US government feared that the Soviet activity was a maneuver to spread communist influence in Central Africa. Kasa-Vubu was encouraged by the US and Belgium to dismiss Lumumba, which he did on 5 September. An outraged Lumumba declared Kasa-Vubu deposed. Parliament refused to recognise the dismissals and urged reconciliation, but no agreement was reached. \n\nLumumba and Kasa-Vubu each ordered Mobutu to arrest the other. As Army Chief of Staff, Mobutu came under great pressure from multiple sources. The embassies of Western nations, which helped pay the soldiers' salaries, as well as Kasa-Vubu and Mobutu's subordinates, all favored getting rid of the Soviet presence. On 14 September Mobutu launched a bloodless coup, declaring both Kasa-Vubu and Lumumba to be \"neutralised\" and establishing a new government of university graduates, the College of Commissioners-General. Lumumba rejected this action but was forced to retire to his residence, where UN peacekeepers prevented Mobutu's soldiers from arresting him.\n\nLosing confidence that the international community would support his reinstatement, Lumumba fled in late November to join his supporters in Stanleyville to establish a new government. He was captured by Mobutu's troops in early December, and incarcerated at his headquarters in Thysville. However, Mobutu still considered him a threat, and transferred him to the rebelling State of Katanga on 17 January 1961. Lumumba disappeared from public view. It was later discovered that he was murdered the same day by the secessionist forces of Moise Tshombe, after Mobutu's government turned him over.\nOn 23 January 1961, Kasa-Vubu promoted Mobutu to major-general. Historian De Witte argues that this was a political action, \"aimed to strengthen the army, the president's sole support, and Mobutu's position within the army.\"\n\nIn 1964, Pierre Mulele led partisans in another rebellion. They quickly occupied two-thirds of the Congo. But the Congolese army, led by Mobutu, reconquered the entire territory through 1965.\n\nPrime Minister Moise Tshombe's Congolese National Convention had won a large majority in the March 1965 elections, but Kasa-Vubu appointed an anti-Tshombe leader, Évariste Kimba, as prime minister-designate. However, Parliament twice refused to confirm him. With the government in near-paralysis, Mobutu seized power in a bloodless coup on 25 November. He had turned 35 a month earlier.\n\nUnder the auspices of a \"regime d'exception\" (the equivalent of a state of emergency), Mobutu assumed sweeping—almost absolute—powers for five years. In his first speech upon taking power, Mobutu told a large crowd at Léopoldville's main stadium that, since politicians had brought the country to ruin in five years, it would take him at least that long to set things right again. Therefore, he announced, \"for five years, there will be no more political party activity in the country.\" Parliament was reduced to a rubber stamp before being abolished altogether, but it was later revived. The number of provinces was reduced, and their autonomy curtailed, resulting in a highly centralized state.\nInitially, Mobutu's government was decidedly apolitical, even anti-political. The word \"politician\" carried negative connotations, and became almost synonymous with someone who was wicked or corrupt. In 1966 the Corps of Volunteers of the Republic was established, a vanguard movement designed to mobilize popular support behind Mobutu, who was proclaimed the nation's \"Second National Hero\" after Lumumba. Despite the role he played in Lumumba's ouster, Mobutu worked to present himself as a successor to Lumumba's legacy. One of his key tenets early in his rule was \"authentic Congolese nationalism.\"\n\n1967 marked the debut of the Popular Movement of the Revolution (MPR), which until 1990 was the nation's only legal political party. It was officially defined as \"the nation politically organized\"—in essence, the state was a transmission belt for the party. All citizens automatically became members of the MPR from birth. Among the themes advanced by the MPR in its doctrine, the Manifesto of N'Sele, were nationalism, revolution, and \"authenticity\". Revolution was described as a \"truly national revolution, essentially pragmatic\", which called for \"the repudiation of both capitalism and communism.\" One of the MPR's slogans was \"Neither left nor right\", to which would be added \"nor even center\" in later years. The MPR elected its president every seven years at its national convention. At the same time, the party president was automatically nominated as the sole candidate for a seven-year term as president of the republic; he was confirmed in office by a referendum. A single list of MPR candidates was returned to the legislature every five years. In practice, this gave the party president—Mobutu—all governing power in the nation.\n\nThat same year, all trade unions were consolidated into a single union, the National Union of Zairian Workers, and brought under government control. Mobutu intended for the union to serve as an instrument of support for government policy, rather than as an independent group. Independent trade unions were illegal until 1991.\nFacing many challenges early in his rule, Mobutu converted much opposition into submission through patronage; those he could not co-opt, he dealt with forcefully. In 1966, four cabinet members were arrested on charges of complicity in an attempted coup, tried by a military tribunal, and publicly executed in an open-air spectacle witnessed by over 50,000 people. Uprisings by former Katangan gendarmeries were crushed, as were the Stanleyville mutinies of 1967 led by white mercenaries. By 1970, nearly all potential threats to his authority had been smashed, and for the most part, law and order was brought to nearly all parts of the country. That year marked the pinnacle of Mobutu's legitimacy and power.\n\nIn 1970 His Majesty King Baudouin of the Belgians made a highly successful state visit to Kinshasa. That same year legislative and presidential elections were held. The MPR was the only party allowed to run, although the constitution stated that at least two parties were authorized. According to official figures, an implausible 98.33% of voters voted in favor of the MPR list. For the presidential election, Mobutu was the only candidate. Voting was not secret; voters chose a green paper if they supported Mobutu's candidacy, and a red paper if they opposed his candidacy. Casting a green ballot was deemed a vote for hope, while a red ballot was deemed a vote for chaos. Under the circumstances, the result was inevitable–Mobutu won with a vote of 10,131,669 to 157. It later emerged that almost 30,500 more votes were cast than the actual number of registered voters.\n\nAs he consolidated power, Mobutu set up several military forces whose sole purpose was to protect him. These included the Special Presidential Division, Civil Guard and Service for Action, and Military Intelligence (SNIP).\n\nEmbarking on a campaign of pro-Africa cultural awareness, or \"authenticité\", Mobutu began renaming cities that reflected the colonial past, starting on 1 June 1966: Leopoldville became Kinshasa, Elisabethville became Lubumbashi, and Stanleyville became Kisangani. In October 1971, he renamed the country as the Republic of Zaire. He ordered the people to change their European names to African ones, and priests were warned that they would face five years' imprisonment if they were caught baptizing a Zairean child with a European name. Western attire and ties were banned, and men were forced to wear a Mao-style tunic known as an \"abacost\" (shorthand for \"à bas le costume\"--\"down with the suit\").\n\nIn 1972, in accordance with his own decree of a year earlier, Mobutu renamed himself \"Mobutu Sese Seko Nkuku Ngbendu Wa Za Banga\" (in Congolese, meaning \"The all-powerful warrior who, because of his endurance and inflexible will to win, goes from conquest to conquest, leaving fire in his wake.\"), or \"Mobutu Sese Seko\" for short. Around this time, he eschewed his military uniform in favor of what would become his classic image—the tall, imposing man wearing an abacost, thick-framed glasses, and leopard-skin toque, and carrying a walking stick.\nEarly in his rule, Mobutu consolidated power by publicly executing political rivals, secessionists, coup plotters, and other threats to his rule. To set an example, many were hanged before large audiences. Such victims included former Prime Minister Evariste Kimba, who, with three cabinet members—Jérôme Anany (Defense Minister), Emmanuel Bamba (Finance Minister), and Alexandre Mahamba (Minister of Mines and Energy)—was tried in May 1966, and sent to the gallows on 30 May, before an audience of 50,000 spectators. The men were executed on charges of being in contact with Colonel Alphonse Bangala and Major Pierre Efomi, for the purpose of planning a coup. Mobutu explained the executions as follows: \"One had to strike through a spectacular example, and create the conditions of regime discipline. When a chief takes a decision, he decides – period.\"\n\nIn 1968, Pierre Mulele, Lumumba's Minister of Education and a rebel leader during the 1964 Simba Rebellion, was lured out of exile in Brazzaville on the belief that he would receive amnesty. Instead, he was tortured and killed by Mobutu's forces. While Mulele was still alive, his eyes were gouged out, his genitals were ripped off, and his limbs were amputated one by one. \n\nMobutu later gave up torture and murder, and switched to a new tactic, buying off political rivals. He used the slogan \"Keep your friends close, but your enemies closer still\" to describe his tactic of co-opting political opponents through bribery. A favorite Mobutu tactic was to play \"musical chairs\", rotating members of his government, switching the cabinet roster constantly to ensure that no one would pose a threat to his rule. Another tactic was to arrest and sometimes torture dissident members of the government, only to later pardon them and reward them with high office.\n\nIn 1972, Mobutu tried unsuccessfully to have himself named president for life. In May 1983 he raised himself to the rank of Marshal; the order was signed by General Likulia Bolongo. Victor Nendaka Bika, in his capacity as Vice-President of the Bureau of the Central Committee, second authority in the land, addressed a speech filled with praise for President Mobutu.\n\nTo gain the revenues of Congolese resources, Mobutu initially nationalized foreign-owned firms and forced European investors out of the country. But in many cases he handed the management of these firms to relatives and close associates, who quickly exercised their own corruption and stole the companies' assets. By 1977, this had precipitated such an economic slump that Mobutu was forced to try to woo foreign investors back. Katangan rebels based in Angola invaded Zaire that year, in retaliation for Mobutu's support for anti-MPLA rebels. France airlifted 1,500 Moroccan paratroopers into the country and repulsed the rebels, ending Shaba I. The rebels attacked Zaire again, in greater numbers, in the Shaba II invasion of 1978. The governments of Belgium and France deployed troops with logistical support from the United States and defeated the rebels again.\n\nMobutu was re-elected in single-candidate elections in 1977 and 1984. He spent most of his time increasing his personal fortune, which in 1984 was estimated to amount to US$5 billion. He held most of it out of the country in Swiss banks (however, a comparatively small $3.4 million was declared found in Swiss banks after he was outsted.). This was almost equivalent to the amount of the country's foreign debt at the time. By 1989, the government was forced to default on international loans from Belgium. \n\nMobutu owned a fleet of Mercedes-Benz vehicles that he used to travel between his numerous palaces, while the nation's roads deteriorated and many of his people starved. The infrastructure virtually collapsed, and many public service workers went months without being paid. Most of the money was siphoned off to Mobutu, his family, and top political and military leaders. Only the Special Presidential Division – on whom his physical safety depended – was paid adequately or regularly. A popular saying that \"the civil servants pretended to work while the state pretended to pay them\" expressed this grim reality.\n\nAnother feature of Mobutu's economic mismanagement, directly linked to the way he and his friends siphoned off so much of the country's wealth, was rampant inflation. The rapid decline in the real value of salaries strongly encouraged a culture of corruption and dishonesty among public servants of all kinds.\n\nMobutu was known for his opulent lifestyle. He cruised on the Congo on his yacht \"Kamanyola\". In Gbadolite he erected a palace, the \"Versailles of the jungle\". For shopping trips to Paris, he would charter a Concorde from Air France; he had the Gbadolite Airport constructed with a runway long enough to accommodate the Concorde's extended take-off and landing requirements. In 1989, Mobutu chartered Concorde aircraft F-BTSD for a 26 June – 5 July trip to give a speech at the United Nations in New York City, 16 July for French bicentennial celebrations in Paris (where he was a guest of President François Mitterrand), on 19 September for a flight from Paris to Gbadolite, and another nonstop flight from Gbadolite to Marseille with the youth choir of Zaire.\n\nMobutu's rule earned a reputation as one of the world's foremost examples of kleptocracy and nepotism. Close relatives and fellow members of the Ngbandi tribe were awarded with high positions in the military and government, and he groomed his eldest son, Nyiwa, to succeed him as president; however, Nyiwa died from AIDS in 1994. \n\nMobutu led one of the most enduring dictatorial regimes in Africa and amassed a personal fortune estimated to be over US$5 billion by selling his nation's rich natural resources while his nation's people lived in poverty. While in office, he formed an authoritarian regime responsible for numerous human rights violations, attempted to purge the country of all Belgian cultural influences, and maintained an anti-communist stance to gain positive international support.\nMobutu was the subject of one of the most pervasive personality cults of the 20th century. The evening news on television was preceded by an image of him descending through clouds like a god. His portraits were hung in many public places, and government officials wore lapels bearing his portrait. He held such titles as \"Father of the Nation\", \"Messiah\", \"Guide of the Revolution\", \"Helmsman\", \"Founder\", \"Savior of the People\", and \"Supreme Combatant\". In the 1996 documentary of the 1974 Foreman-Ali fight in Zaire, dancers receiving the fighters can be heard chanting \"Sese Seko, Sese Seko.\" At one point, in early 1975, the media was forbidden from referring to anyone by name other than Mobutu; others were referred to only by the positions they held.\n\nMobutu successfully capitalized on Cold War tensions among European nations and the United States. He gained significant support from the West and its international organizations such as the International Monetary Fund.\nRelations between Zaire and Belgium wavered between close intimacy and open hostility during the Mobutu years. Relations soured early in Mobutu's rule over disputes involving the substantial Belgian commercial and industrial holdings in the country, but relations warmed soon afterwards. Mobutu and his family were received as personal guests of the Belgian monarch in 1968, and a convention for scientific and technical cooperation was signed that same year. During King Baudouin's highly successful visit to Kinshasa in 1970, a treaty of friendship and cooperation between the two countries was signed. However, Mobutu tore up the treaty in 1974 in protest at Belgium's refusal to ban an anti-Mobutu book written by left-wing lawyer Jules Chomé. Mobutu's \"Zairianization\" policy, which expropriated foreign-held businesses and transferred their ownership to Zairians, added to the strain. Mobutu maintained several personal contacts with prominent Belgians. Edmond Leburton, Belgian prime minister between 1973 and 1974, was someone greatly admired by the President. Alfred Cahen, career diplomat and \"chef de cabinet\" of minister Henri Simonet, became a personal friend of Mobutu when he was a student at the Université Libre de Bruxelles. Relations with King Baudouin were mostly cordial, until Mobutu released a bold statement about the Belgian royal family. Prime Minister Wilfried Martens recalled in his memoirs that the palace gates closed completely after Mobutu published a handwritten letter of the King. Next to friendly ties with Belgians residing in Belgium, Mobutu had a great deal of Belgian advisors at his disposal. Some of them, such as Hugues Leclercq and Colonel Willy Mallants, were interviewed in Thierry Michel's documentary \"Mobutu, King of Zaire\".\n\nAs what was then the second most populous French-speaking country in the world (it has subsequently come to have a larger population than France) and the most populous one in sub-Saharan Africa Zaire was of great strategic interest to France. During the First Republic era, France tended to side with the conservative and federalist forces, as opposed to unitarists such as Lumumba. Shortly after the Katangan secession was successfully crushed, Zaire (then called the Republic of the Congo), signed a treaty of technical and cultural cooperation with France. During the presidency of Charles de Gaulle, relations with the two countries gradually grew stronger and closer. In 1971, Finance Minister Valéry Giscard d'Estaing paid a visit to Zaire; later, after becoming President, he would develop a close personal relationship with President Mobutu, and became one of the regime's closest foreign allies. During the Shaba invasions, France sided firmly with Mobutu: during the first Shaba invasion, France airlifted 1,500 Moroccan troops to Zaire, and the rebels were repulsed; a year later, during the second Shaba invasion, France itself would send French Foreign Legion paratroopers (2nd Foreign Parachute Regiment) to aid Mobutu (along with Belgium).\n\nInitially, Zaire's relationship with the People's Republic of China was no better than its relationship with the Soviet Union. Memories of Chinese aid to Mulele and other Maoist rebels in Kwilu province during the ill-fated Simba Rebellion remained fresh in Mobutu's mind. He also opposed seating the PRC at the United Nations. However, by 1972, he began to see the Chinese in a different light, as a counterbalance to both the Soviet Union as well as his intimate ties with the United States, Israel, and South Africa. In November 1972, Mobutu extended diplomatic recognition to the Chinese (as well as East Germany and North Korea). The following year, Mobutu paid a visit to Beijing, where he met personally with chairman Mao Zedong and received promises of $100 million in technical aid. In 1974, Mobutu made a surprise visit to both China and North Korea, during the time he was originally scheduled to visit the Soviet Union. Upon returning home, both his politics and rhetoric became markedly more radical; it was around this time that Mobutu began criticizing Belgium and the United States (the latter for not doing enough, in Mobutu's opinion, to combat white minority rule in South Africa and Rhodesia), introduced the \"obligatory civic work\" program called \"salongo\", and initiated \"radicalization\" (an extension of 1973's \"Zairianization\" policy). Mobutu even borrowed a title – the Helmsman – from Mao. Incidentally, late 1974-early 1975 was when his personality cult reached its peak.\n\nChina and Zaire shared a common goal in central Africa, namely doing everything in their power to halt Soviet gains in the area. Accordingly, both Zaire and China covertly funneled aid to the FNLA (and later, UNITA) in order to prevent the MPLA, who were supported and augmented by Cuban forces, from coming to power. The Cubans, who exercised considerable influence in Africa in support of leftist and anti-imperialist forces, were heavily sponsored by the Soviet Union during the period. In addition to inviting Holden Roberto and his guerrillas to Beijing for training, China provided weapons and money to the rebels. Zaire itself launched an ill-fated, pre-emptive invasion of Angola in a bid to install a pro-Kinshasa government, but was repulsed by Cuban troops. The expedition was a fiasco with far-reaching repercussions, most notably the Shaba I and Shaba II invasions, both of which China opposed. China sent military aid to Zaire during both invasions, and accused the Soviet Union and Cuba (who were alleged to have supported the Shaban rebels, although this was and remains speculation) of working to de-stabilize central Africa.\n\nMobutu's relationship with the Soviet Union was frosty and tense. A staunch anti-communist, he was not anxious to recognize the Soviets; the USSR had supported—though mostly in words—both Patrice Lumumba, Mobutu's democratically elected predecessor, and the Simba rebellion. However, to project a non-aligned image, he did renew ties in 1967; the first Soviet ambassador arrived and presented his credentials in 1968. Mobutu did, however, join the United States in condemning the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia that year. Mobutu viewed the Soviet presence as advantageous for two reasons: it allowed him to maintain an image of non-alignment, and it provided a convenient scapegoat for problems at home. For example, in 1970, he expelled four Soviet diplomats for carrying out \"subversive activities\", and in 1971, twenty Soviet officials were declared \"persona non grata\" for allegedly instigating student demonstrations at Lovanium University.\n\nMoscow was the only major world capital Mobutu never visited, although he did accept an invitation to do so in 1974. For reasons unknown, he cancelled the visit at the last minute, and toured the People's Republic of China and North Korea instead.\n\nRelations cooled further in 1975, when the two countries found themselves on opposing sides in the Angolan Civil War. This had a dramatic effect on Zairian foreign policy for the next decade; bereft of his claim to African leadership (Mobutu was one of the few leaders who refused to recognize the Marxist government of Angola), Mobutu turned increasingly to the US and its allies, adopting pro-American stances on such issues as the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, and Israel's position in international organizations.\n\nFor the most part, Zaire enjoyed warm relations with the United States. The United States was the third largest donor of aid to Zaire (after Belgium and France), and Mobutu befriended several US presidents, including Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan, and George H. W. Bush. Relations did cool significantly in 1974–1975 over Mobutu's increasingly radical rhetoric (which included his scathing denunciations of American foreign policy), and plummeted to an all-time low in the summer of 1975, when Mobutu accused the Central Intelligence Agency of plotting his overthrow and arrested eleven senior Zairian generals and several civilians, and condemned (\"in absentia\") a former head of the Central Bank (Albert Ndele). However, many people viewed these charges with skepticism; in fact, one of Mobutu's staunchest critics, Nzongola-Ntalaja, speculated that Mobutu invented the plot as an excuse to purge the military of talented officers who might otherwise pose a threat to his rule. In spite of these hindrances, the chilly relationship quickly thawed when both countries found each other supporting the same side during the Angolan Civil War.\n\nBecause of Mobutu's poor human rights record, the Carter Administration put some distance between itself and the Kinshasa government; even so, Zaire received nearly half the foreign aid Carter allocated to sub-Saharan Africa. During the first Shaba invasion, the United States played a relatively inconsequential role; its belated intervention consisted of little more than the delivery of non-lethal supplies. But during the second Shaba invasion, the US played a much more active and decisive role by providing transportation and logistical support to the French and Belgian paratroopers that were deployed to aid Mobutu against the rebels. Carter echoed Mobutu's (unsubstantiated) charges of Soviet and Cuban aid to the rebels, until it was apparent that no hard evidence existed to verify his claims. In 1980, the US House of Representatives voted to terminate military aid to Zaire, but the US Senate reinstated the funds, in response to pressure from Carter and American business interests in Zaire.\n\nMobutu enjoyed a very warm relationship with the Reagan Administration, through financial donations. During Reagan's presidency, Mobutu visited the White House three times, and criticism of Zaire's human rights record by the US was effectively muted. During a state visit by Mobutu in 1983, Reagan praised the Zairian strongman as \"a voice of good sense and goodwill.\"\n\nMobutu also had a cordial relationship with Reagan's successor, George H. W. Bush; he was the first African head of state to visit Bush at the White House. Even so, Mobutu's relationship with the US radically changed shortly afterward with the end of the Cold War. With the Soviet Union gone, there was no longer any reason to support Mobutu as a bulwark against communism. Accordingly, the US and other Western powers began pressuring Mobutu to democratize the regime. Regarding the change in US attitude to his regime, Mobutu bitterly remarked: \"I am the latest victim of the cold war, no longer needed by the US. The lesson is that my support for American policy counts for nothing.\" In 1993, Mobutu was denied a visa by the US State Department after he sought to visit Washington, DC.\n\nMobutu also had friends in America outside Washington. Mobutu was befriended by televangelist Pat Robertson, who promised to try to get the State Department to lift its ban on the African leader.\n\nIn May 1990, due to the ending of the Cold War and a change in the international political climate, as well as economic problems and domestic unrest, Mobutu agreed to end the ban on other political parties. He appointed a transitional government that would lead to promised elections but he retained substantial powers. Following riots in Kinshasa by unpaid soldiers, Mobutu brought opposition figures into a coalition government but he still connived to retain control of the security services and important ministries. Factional divisions led to the creation of two governments in 1993, one pro and one anti-Mobutu. The anti-Mobutu government was headed by Laurent Monsengwo and Étienne Tshisekedi of the Union for Democracy and Social Progress. The economic situation was still dreadful, and, in 1994, the two groups joined as the High Council of Republic – Parliament of Transition (HCR-PT). Mobutu appointed Kengo Wa Dondo, an advocate of austerity and free-market reforms, as prime minister. Mobutu was becoming increasingly physically frail and during one of his absences for medical treatment in Europe, Tutsis captured much of eastern Zaire.\n\nWhen Mobutu's government issued an order in November 1996 forcing Tutsis to leave Zaire on penalty of death, the ethnic Tutsis in Zaire, known as Banyamulenge, were the focal point of a rebellion. From eastern Zaire, the rebels and foreign government forces under the leadership of President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda and Rwandan Minister of Defense Paul Kagame launched an offensive to overthrow Mobutu, joining forces with locals opposed to him under Laurent-Désiré Kabila as they marched west toward Kinshasa. Burundi also supported the growing rebellion, which mushroomed into the First Congo War.\n\nAiling with cancer, Mobutu was in Switzerland for treatment, and he was unable to coordinate the resistance which crumbled in front of the march.\n\nBy mid-1997, Kabila's forces resumed their advance, and the remains of Mobutu's army offered almost no resistance. On 16 May 1997, following failed peace talks held in Pointe-Noire on board the South African Navy ship SAS \"Outeniqua\" with Kabila and President of South Africa Nelson Mandela (who chaired the talks), Mobutu fled into exile. Kabila's forces, known as the Alliance of Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Congo-Zaire (AFDL), proclaimed victory the next day. The AFDL would have completely overrun the country far sooner if not for the country's decrepit infrastructure. In several areas, no paved roads existed; the only vehicle paths were irregularly used dirt roads. Zaire was renamed the Democratic Republic of the Congo.\n\nMobutu had the remains of assassinated Rwandan president Juvénal Habyarimana stored in a mausoleum in Gbadolite. On 12 May 1997, as Kabila's rebels were advancing on Gbadolite, Mobutu had the remains flown by cargo plane from his mausoleum to Kinshasa where they waited on the tarmac of N'djili Airport for three days. On 16 May, the day before Mobutu fled Zaire, Habyarimana's remains were burned under the supervision of an Indian Hindu leader.\n\nMobutu went into temporary exile in Togo but lived mostly in Morocco. He died on 7 September 1997, in Rabat, Morocco, from prostate cancer. He is buried in Rabat, in the Christian cemetery known as \"Pax\".\n\nIn December 2007, the National Assembly of the Democratic Republic of the Congo recommended returning his remains to see the Work of the Congo and interring them in a mausoleum.\n\nOn the same day Mobutu fled into exile, Laurent-Désiré Kabila became the new president of Congo. He was assassinated in 2001, and succeeded by his son Joseph Kabila.\n\nMobutu was married twice. His first wife, Marie-Antoinette Mobutu, died of heart failure on 22 October 1977 in Genolier, Switzerland, at the age of 36. On 1 May 1980, he married his mistress, Bobi Ladawa, on the eve of a visit by Pope John Paul II, thus legitimizing his relationship in the eyes of the Church. Two of his sons from his first marriage died during his lifetime, Nyiwa (d. 16 September 1994) and Konga (d. 1992). Two more died in the years following his death: Kongulu (d. 24 September 1998), and Manda (d. 27 November 2004). His elder son from his second marriage, Nzanga Mobutu Ngbangawe, now the head of the family, was a candidate in the 2006 presidential elections and later served in the government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo as Minister of State for Agriculture. A daughter, Yakpwa (nicknamed Yaki), was briefly married to a Belgian man named Pierre Janssen, who later wrote a book that described Mobutu's lifestyle in vivid detail.\n\nAltogether, Mobutu had at least twenty-one children:\n\n\nOn trips across Zaire he appropriated the \"droit de cuissage\" (right to deflower) as local chiefs offered him virgins; this practice was considered an honor for the virgin's family.\n\nMobutu was the subject of the three-part documentary \"Mobutu, King of Zaire\" by Thierry Michel. Mobutu was also featured in the feature film \"Lumumba\", directed by Raoul Peck, which detailed the pre-coup and coup years from the perspective of Lumumba. Mobutu featured in the documentary \"When We Were Kings\", which centred around the famed \"Rumble in the Jungle\" boxing bout between George Foreman and Muhammad Ali for the 1974 heavyweight championship of the world. The bout took place in Kinshasa during Mobutu's rule. Mobutu also might be considered as the inspiration behind some of the characters in the works of the poetry of Wole Soyinka, the novel \"A Bend in the River\" by V. S. Naipaul, and \"Anthills of the Savannah\" by Chinua Achebe. William Close, father of actress Glenn Close, was once a personal physician to Mobutu and wrote a book focusing on his service in Zaire. Barbara Kingsolver's 1998 historical novel \"The Poisonwood Bible\" depicts the events of the Congo Crisis from a fictional standpoint, featuring the role of Mobutu in the crisis.\n\nMobutu was infamous for embezzling the equivalent of billions of US dollars from his country. According to the most conservative estimates, he stole US$4–5 billion from his country, and some sources put the figure as high as US$15 billion. According to Mobutu's ex-son-in-law, Pierre Janssen—the ex-husband of Mobutu's daughter Yaki—Mobutu had no concern for the cost of the expensive gifts he gave away to his cronies. Janssen married Yaki in a lavish ceremony that included three orchestras, a US$65,000 wedding cake and a giant fireworks display. Yaki wore a US$70,000 wedding gown and US$3 million worth of jewels. Janssen wrote a book describing Mobutu's daily routine—which included several daily bottles of wine, retainers flown in from overseas and lavish meals.\n\nAccording to Transparency International, Mobutu embezzled over US$5 billion from his country, ranking him as the third-most corrupt leader since 1984 and the most corrupt African leader during the same period. Philip Gourevitch, in \"We Wish to Inform You That Tomorrow We Will Be Killed with Our Families\" (1998), wrote:\n\nMobutu also was one of the men who was instrumental in bringing the \"Rumble in the Jungle\" boxing match between Muhammad Ali and George Foreman to Zaire on 30 October 1974. According to the documentary \"When We Were Kings\", promoter Don King promised each fighter US$5 million for the fight. Mobutu was the only one who was willing to fund such amounts. Mobutu, wanting to expand his country's image, put up the nation's money to do so. According to a quote in the film, Ali supposedly said: \"Some countries go to war to get their names out there, and wars cost a lot more than $10 million.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50373804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50373804", "title": "Muhammad Nawaz Irfani", "text": "Muhammad Nawaz Irfani\n\nMuhammad Nawaz Irfani (, 1 January 1970 – 2014) was a Parachinar Pakistan Shia Muslim religious leader, revolutionary, and politician. He was succeeded by Sheikh Fida Hussain Muzahiri.\n\nMuhammad Nawaz Irfani was born in Danyor, Gilgit. His early education was in the local school of the village. His family was Ismaili Shia, but his grandfather and father give priority to Twelver Shia Islam over Ismaili religion and linked with Shia Islam. As a result, they had to endure a lot of hardships and trouble.\n\nPatiently for all offenses his father sent his dear son to Jamia tul Muntazar Lahore. There he got religious education and benefited from many scholars. \n\nAllama Mohammad Nawaz Irfani was shot dead in Islamabad on Wednesday 26 November 2014.Large number of people from all walks of life attended the funeral, which was held after Friday prayers at the central Eidgah. Later, he was laid to rest at the Eidgah graveyard.\nThe participants expressed shock and anguish over the killing of the Shia scholar and urged the government to arrest the culprits and award them exemplary punishment.\nLocal tribes of Kurram Agency announced a 40-day mourning over the killing of Allama Irfani.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22731121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22731121", "title": "Nathan Oman", "text": "Nathan Oman\n\nNathan Bryan \"Nate\" Oman (born 1975) is the Rollins Professor of Law at the law school of the College of William and Mary. He is a legal scholar and educator. In 2006, he became an assistant professor at The College of William & Mary Law School. In 2003, Oman founded Times & Seasons, An Onymous Mormon Blog.\n\nOman was raised in Salt Lake City, Utah. He served a mission for the LDS Church in the Korea Pusan Mission.\n\nOman holds a bachelor's degree in political science from Brigham Young University and a law degree from Harvard Law School.\n\nHe worked on the staff of Senator Mitch McConnell before going to law school. He clerked for Judge Morris Sheppard Arnold. Oman is a permanent blogger at Concurring Opinions.\n\nPrior to joining the faculty of William and Mary Oman was a practicing lawyer in Washington, D.C. Oman has been a visiting professor at Hebrew University, Cornell Law School, and the University of Richmond Law School.\n\nOman is a Mormon. He is a son of Richard G. Oman, an art curator at the LDS Church History Museum and an expert on LDS art. His mother is Susan Staker, retired, former editorial director at Adobe Systems and editor for Sunstone magazine and Signature Books.\n\nOman and his wife, the former Heather Bennett, are the parents of two children.\n\nOman specializes in contract law, the foundations of private law, and law and religion. Oman's work has appeared in such law journals as the \"Harvard Law Review\", \"Michigan Law Review\", \"Georgetown Law Journal\", \"Minnesota Law Review\", \"Iowa Law Review\", and \"BYU Law Review\". He has also been a frequent presenter at conferences of the J. Reuben Clark Law Society.\nHe wrote an article on the 2008 Mitt Romney presidential campaign for the \"San Francisco Chronicle.\" In addition, he has published op-eds in The National Review On-line, The Washington Times, and The Richmond-Times Dispatch. Since late 2010 he has been a regular columnist for the Deseret News.\n\nIn late 2010 Oman criticized the U.S. auto bailout: \"Taxpayer money became vital to GM's and Chrysler's continued survival precisely because the presence of taxpayer money understandably scared away private investors. ... [The two auto giants] could have gone through bankruptcy like everyone else. It did, however, undermine the trust on which successful capitalism depends.\"\n\nOman has written on many themes related to Mormon studies, contributing to \"\", the \"FARMS Review\", \"BYU Studies\", \"Element: The Journal of the Society for Mormon Philosophy and Theology\" and wrote articles on legal themes for \"\" and contributed the article on Mormons for the forthcoming \"Encyclopedia of the Supreme Court of the United States\".\n\nOman along with Alan Meese wrote for the \"Harvard Law Review Forum\" an in-depth analysis of Burwell v. Hobby Lobby and the question of whether the Religious Freedom Restoration Act should apply, arguing that actions of corporations are within the intended scope of religious freedom.\n\nAnother recent work by Oman was \"International Legal Experience and the Mormon Theology of the State, 1945-2012\" published in the Iowa Law Review.\n\nOman is the author of \"The Dignity of Commerce: Markets and the Moral Foundations of Contract Law\" published by the University of Chicago Press.\n\nCalifornia Appellate Law Group's Anna-Rose Mathieson and Oman co-authored a friend-of-the-court briefs signed by Oman and twenty additional Mormon studies scholars and filed with the U.S. Supreme Court with regard to the Court's review of the Trump Administration's travel bans. The brief draws parallels between historical U.S. government-sanctioned and promoted anti-Mormon with the anti-Muslim atmosphere surrounding the proposed ban currently.\n"}
{"id": "32958737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32958737", "title": "Nojpetén", "text": "Nojpetén\n\nNojpetén (also known as Tayasal) was the capital city of the Itza Maya kingdom of Petén Itzá, located on an island in Lake Petén Itzá in the modern department of Petén in northern Guatemala. The island is now occupied by the modern town of Flores, the capital of the Petén department, and has had uninterrupted occupation since pre-Columbian times. Nojpetén had defensive walls built upon the low ground of the island; they may have been hastily constructed by the Itza at a time when they felt threatened either by the encroaching Spanish or by other Maya groups.\n\nWriting many years after his journey across Petén, conquistador Bernal Díaz del Castillo called the city \"Tayasal\"; this appears to have been a hispanicisation of the Itza language \"ta itza\" (\"at the place of the Itza\"). The Itza king Kan Ek' referred to the city by the name Nojpetén when he spoke to the Spanish in 1698. Nojpetén, from the Itza \"noj peten\", means \"great island\".\n\nEarliest archaeological traces on the island date back to 900-600 BC, with a major expansion of the settlement occurring around 250-400 AD. Ethnohistoric documents claim the founding of Nojpetén in the mid-15th century AD. These relate that Nojpetén was founded when the Itza fled south around 1441–1446, after they were deposed by the Xiu Maya at Mayapan. When they settled on the island, they divided their new capital into four quarters based upon lineage groups.\n\nNojpetén was closely packed with buildings that included temples, palaces and thatched houses. Approximately 2000 people are estimated to have lived in the city, in an estimated 200 houses. The modern street plan of Flores is likely to have been inherited from pre-Columbian Nojpetén, with a quadripartite division by principal streets running north-south and east-west that intersect at the summit, occupied by the modern plaza and catholic church.\n\nIn 1698 Spanish accounts describe the city as having had twenty-one temples, the largest of these (which the Spanish called a \"castillo\") had a square base measuring on each side. It had nine stepped levels and faced northward; it appeared very similar in design to the principal pyramids at Chichen Itza and Mayapan in Yucatán. This was about half the size of the Mayapan \"castillo\"; its nine levels may each have been less than high; the pyramid would still have been imposing. It possibly had only one access stairway rather than the four radial stairways found in the examples in Yucatán. The pyramid was topped by a flat-roofed summit shrine that contained idols representing Itza gods. The dismantling of this pyramid would have required considerable effort but no mention of this is found in Spanish records.\n\nWhen Spanish missionary Andrés de Avendaño y Loyola visited the city in early 1696, nine of the temples had recently been burnt during a Kowoj Maya attack and subsequently rebuilt; during the attack many houses had also been destroyed. Ritual ceramics, identified by the Spanish as idols, were arranged in pairs upon small benches throughout the city. The Spanish set about destroying the pagan idols after conquering the city.\n\nNojpetén fell to a Spanish assault in 1697; it was the capital of the last Maya kingdom to fall to the conquerors. Martín de Ursúa y Arismendi arrived at the western shore of Lake Petén Itzá in February 1697 with 235 Spanish soldiers and 120 native labourers. He launched an all-out assault using a large oar-powered attack boat on 13 March; the Spanish bombardment of the island caused heavy loss of life among the Itza defenders, who were forced to abandon the city.\n\nThe Spanish renamed Nojpetén as \"Nuestra Señora de los Remedios y San Pablo, Laguna del Itza\" (\"Our Lady of Remedy and Saint Paul, Lake of the Itza\"); It was often shortened to \"Remedios\" in colonial documents, or referred to simply as \"Petén,\" or as El Presidio (\"the garrison\"). In 1831 the government renamed it Flores after the Guatemalan head of state Cirilo Flores.\n\nIn 2003-2004, archaeological excavations were carried out to accompany a major infrastructure project on the island to develop its water supply and sewage systems. The volume of the infrastructure excavations was such that they provided an opportunity to sample every street and avenue in the city, and its major alleyways. The archaeological analysis revealed a particularly dense occupation of the island extending back over a long period of time. The earliest occupation was identified on the highest part of the island, in front of what is now the departmental governor's offices, and dates as far back as the Middle Preclassic period, c. 900-600 BC. A \"chultun\" (Maya storage pit) was identified in the central part of the island that contained Preclassic ceramic remains dating to the Middle to Late Preclassic periods (c. 600 BC - 250 AD). Although Preclassic remains were relatively scarce, by the Early Classic period (c. 250 - 400 AD) the site experienced considerable expansion.\n\n"}
{"id": "21741292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21741292", "title": "Paul R. Cheesman", "text": "Paul R. Cheesman\n\nPaul Robert Cheesman (May 31, 1921 – November 13, 1991) was an American archeologist and a professor of religion at Brigham Young University (BYU).\n\nCheesman was born in Brigham City, Utah and was a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). His parents died while he was still young and he oversaw his own education. He received a degree in education from San Diego State University. In California, he was also a public school teacher, and he later worked as a seminary teacher for the LDS Church. During the Korean War, he served as a chaplain in the United States military. In 1944, he married Millie Foster, with whom he had six children.\n\nLater, as president of the Foster Corporation, Cheesman was heavily involved in Central America, where he developed a collection and strong interest in pre-Columbian archaeology.\n\nCheesman taught in BYU's Department of Religious Education from 1963 to 1986. He received his master's degree in 1965 and doctorate in 1967, both in Religious Education at BYU. For a time, he served as director of scripture studies and director of Book of Mormon studies in BYU's Religious Studies Center. Cheesman was known for research of correlations between the Book of Mormon and pre-Columbian American discoveries. His stated desire was to promote Latter-day Saint faith:Archaeological evidences which support The Book of Mormon do not convert, but we would hope that these thought-provoking discoveries might inspire and excite the reader to the point where they would want to study The Book of Mormon with real intent and gain a testimony of its truth.\nAfter retiring, Cheesman and his wife moved to St. George, Utah.\n\nCheesman served in various callings in the LDS Church. He served as a Bishop, District president, twice as Stake president, and as president of the Louisiana Baton Rouge Mission from 1980 to 1983. After retiring from BYU, he was director of the church's New York Visitors Center. In New York, Cheesman suffered a massive heart attack and returned to Utah for surgery, when he died in 1991.\n\nCheesman's book \"Ancient American Indians: Their Origins, Civilizations and Old World Connections\" has been criticized as a poor work of scholarship, most especially by such men as Martin H. Raish and John L. Sorenson who also believe that the Book of Mormon is an ancient work and thus feel that such shoddy scholarship hurts more than it helps a true understanding of the book. William J. Hamblin has said of a 1985 work by Cheesman on ancient writing on gold plates that it should be \"used with caution\".\n\nCheesman's most recognized publications are about ancient America's relationship to the Book of Mormon. His master's thesis was notable for bringing to light the previously unknown 1832 account of the First Vision, Joseph Smith's first recorded account that dates to 1832.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264389", "title": "Republican Party of India (A)", "text": "Republican Party of India (A)\n\nThe Republican Party of India (Athawale) is a political party in India. The party is a splinter group of the Republican Party of India and has its roots in the Scheduled Castes Federation led by B. R. Ambedkar. The president of the party is Ramdas Athawale.\n\nRamdas Athawale was member of the Maharashtra Legislative Council from 1990 to 1995 and a cabinet member in the Government of Maharashtra. Subsequently, he was elected to the Parliament of India, representing Mumbai North Central in the 12th Lok Sabha between 1998-99 and the Pandharpur constituency from 1999 to 2004.\n\nAfter the 2004 election, it had a small representation in the Lok Sabha and was a constituent of the ruling United Progressive Alliance. Its presence is limited to Maharashtra.\n\nAll factions of the RPI except Prakash Ambedkar's Bharipa Bahujan Mahasangh have reunited to form a Republican Party of India (United).\n\nIn 2011, the party aligned itself with the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance.\n\nRakhi Sawant resigned from Rashtriya Aam Party and joined Republican Party of India (A) in June 2014 and expressed her desire to work for dalits. Rakhi serves as party's state vice-president and president of woman wing.\n\nIn September 2015, the RPI(A) was one of 16 parties in Maharashtra to lose its registration for not submitting audited balance sheets and IT return documents since 2005. Thus they have lost their official election symbols.\n\nAthawale is only member in Member of Parliament in Upper House of the Indian parliament. He is currently Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Department with Disability Affairs from July 2016 in Narendra Modi ministry.\n\n"}
{"id": "16974018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16974018", "title": "Residential segregation in the United States", "text": "Residential segregation in the United States\n\nResidential segregation in the United States is the physical separation of two or more groups into different neighborhoods, or a form of segregation that \"sorts population groups into various neighborhood contexts and shapes the living environment at the neighborhood level\". While it has traditionally been associated with racial segregation, it generally refers to any kind of sorting based on some criteria populations (e.g. race, ethnicity, income).\n\nWhile overt segregation is illegal in the United States, housing patterns show significant and persistent segregation for certain races and income groups. The history of American social and public policies, like Jim Crow laws and Federal Housing Administration's early redlining policies, set the tone for segregation in housing. Trends in residential segregation are attributed to suburbanization, discrimination, and personal preferences. Residential segregation produces negative socioeconomic outcomes for minority groups. Public policies for housing attempt to promote integration and mitigate these negative effects.\n\nRace based residential segregation in American cities dates from the rapid urbanization which occurred in the last years of the 19th and the first years of the 20th century. Prior to that time, the African-Americans who lived in cities lived in scattered locations. Development of segregated residential neighborhoods was associated with massive influxes of European immigrants and African-Americans. These groups had limited funds and job opportunities and ended up clustered in neighborhoods with poor housing. These neighborhoods were characterized by social unrest and diseases such as typhoid and tuberculosis. Progressive social reformers attempted to ameliorate these conditions, but were unsuccessful, particularly with respect to African-Americans. Around 1910 they turned to efforts to contain the problems in segregated neighborhoods. The first ordinance establishing segregated neighborhoods was passed in Baltimore in 1910. Overt ordinances were struck down in \"Buchanan v. Warley\", 245 U.S. 60 (1917) but the practice continued and became deeply ingrained in urban culture, resulting in limited housing for an expanding population and development of the African-American ghetto with poor overcrowded housing and numerous social ills. In large part, residential discrimination was driven by school segregation which was legal until \"Brown v. Board of Education\" was decided in 1954 but has persisted due to continuing segregated residential patterns in most American cities to the present.\n\nThe Index of dissimilarity allows measurement of residential segregation using census data. It uses United States census data to analyze housing patterns based on five dimensions of segregation: evenness (how evenly the population is dispersed across an area), isolation (within an area), concentration (in densely packed neighborhoods), centralization (near metropolitan centers), and clustering (into contiguous ghettos). Hypersegregation is high segregation across all dimensions.\n\nAnother tool used to measure residential segregation is the neighborhood sorting indices, showing income segregation between different levels of the income distribution.\n\nAn analysis of historical U.S. Census data by Harvard and Duke scholars indicates that racial separation has diminished significantly since the 1960s. Published by the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research, the report indicates that the dissimilarity index has declined in all 85 of the nation's largest cities. In all but one of the nation's 658 housing markets, the separation of black residents from other races is now lower than the national average in 1970. Segregation continued to drop in the last decade, with 522 out of 658 housing markets recording a decline.\n\nDespite recent trends, blacks remain the most segregated racial group. The dissimilarity-index indices in 1980, 1990 and 2000 are 72.7, 67.8, and 64.0, respectively. Blacks are hypersegregated in most of the largest metropolitan areas across the U.S., including Atlanta, Baltimore, Chicago, Cleveland, Detroit, Houston, Los Angeles, New Orleans, New York, Philadelphia and Washington, DC. For Hispanics, the second most segregated racial group, the indices from 1980, 1990 and 2000 are 50.2, 50.0, and 50.9, respectively.\n\nHispanics are highly segregated in a number of cities, primarily in northern metropolitan areas. Segregation for Asians and Pacific Islanders has been consistently low and stable on the Index of Dissimilarity over the decades. The indices from 1980, 1990 and 2000 are 40.5, 41.2 and 41.1, respectively. Segregation for Native Americans and Alaska Natives has also been consistently the lowest of all groups and has seen declines over the decades. The indices from 1980, 1990 and 2000 are 37.3, 36.8 and 33.3, respectively.\n\nAnalysis of patterns for income segregation come from the National Survey of America's Families, the Census and Home Mortgage Disclosure Act data. Both the index of dissimilarity and the neighborhood sorting indices show that income segregation grew between 1970 and 1990. In this period, the Index of Dissimilarity between the affluent and the poor increased from .29 to .43.\n\nPoor families are becoming more isolated. Whereas in 1970 only 14 percent of poor families lived in predominantly poor areas, this number increased to 28 percent in 1990 and continues to rise. Most low-income people live in the suburbs or central cities. When looking at areas classified as \"high-poverty\" or \"low-poverty\" in 2000, about 14% of low-income families live in high-poverty areas and 35% live in low-poverty areas.\n\nMore than half of all low-income working families are racial minorities. Over 60% of all low-income families lived in majority white neighborhoods in 2000. However, this statistic describes the settlement patterns mainly of white low-income people. Black and Hispanic low-income families, the two most racially segregated groups, rarely live in predominantly white or majority-white neighborhoods. A very small portion of low-income white families lives in high-poverty areas. One in three black low-income families live in high-poverty areas while one of every five Hispanic low-income families lives in high-poverty areas.\n\nNational trends for homeownership show a general upward trend since the 1980s, with a 2010 rate of 66.9%. , 71% of whites were homeowners. The rates for black, Hispanics, and all other races remain consistently and significantly below the national average. In 2010, the rates for blacks, Hispanics, and all other races were 45%, 48%, and 57% respectively. Looking at all homeowners in 2007, about 87% are white. Low-income individuals are less likely to be homeowners than other income groups and pay a greater portion of their income on housing. Individuals living in poverty represent a very small portion of homeowners.\n\nCensus information on renters shows significant disparity between the races for renters. Of all renters, about 71% are white, 21% are black, 18% are Hispanic and 7% are Asian. Renters are generally less affluent that homeowners. From 1991 to 2005, the percentage of low-income renters increased significantly.\n\nCurrent trends in racial and income based residential segregation in the United States are attributed to several factors, including:\n\n\nThese factors impact both racial and income segregation differently.\n\nExclusionary zoning influences both racial and income-based segregation.\n\nIncidences of exclusionary zoning separating households by race appeared as early as the 1870s and 1880s when municipalities in California adopted anti-Chinese policies. For example, an 1884 San Francisco ordinance regulated the operation of laundries, which were a source of employment and gathering places for Chinese immigrants. The ordinance withstood several legal challenges before the U.S. Supreme Court eventually struck it down because of its anti-Chinese motivations.\n\nThe prominent real estate developer J.C. Nichols was famous for creating master-planned communities with covenants that prohibited African Americans, Jews, and other races from owning his properties.\n\nA decade later, the Supreme Court passage of Plessy v. Ferguson established \"separate but equal\" zoning ordinances that specified exclusively black, white and mixed districts and legally established segregation in housing opportunities. Many large and mid-sized cities in the South and mid-South adopted racial zonings between 1910 and 1915. In \"Buchanan v. Warley (1917) the Supreme Court ruled that racial zoning was illegal but many local governments continued to enforce racial segregation with alternative land use designations.\n\nMany of these deeds and covenants remain active, and continue to influence settlement patterns.\n\nLocal jurisdictions that adopt land-use zoning regulations such as large-lot zoning, minimum house size requirements, and bans on secondary units make housing more expensive. As a result, this excludes lower income racial and ethnic minorities from certain neighborhoods.\n\nThe location of public housing developments influences both racial and income segregation patterns. Racial segregation in public housing programs occurs when high concentrations of a certain minority group occupy one specific public housing development. Income segregation occurs when high concentrations of public housing are located in one specific income area.\n\nFederal and local policies have historically racially segregated public housing.\n\nLocal jurisdictions determined whether to incorporate public housing into their locality and most had control over where low income housing sites were built. In many areas, the white majority would not allow public housing to be built in \"their\" neighborhoods unless it was reserved for poor whites. Black elected officials recognized the need for housing for their constituents, but felt that it would be politically unpopular to advocate for inclusionary housing.\n\nOf the 49 public housing units constructed before World War II, 43 projects supported by the Public Works Administration and 236 of 261 projects supported by the U.S. Housing Authority were segregated by race. Anti-discrimination laws passed after World War II led to a reduction in racial segregation for a short period of time, but as income-ineligible tenants were removed from public housing, the proportion of black residents increased. The remaining low-income white tenants were often elderly and moved to projects reserved specifically for seniors. Family public housing units then became dominated by racial minorities.\n\nThree of the more infamous minority concentrated public housing projects in America were Pruitt-Igoe in St. Louis and Cabrini-Green and Robert Taylor Homes in Chicago.\n\nDetermining if a disproportionate level of public housing exists in low-income neighborhoods is hard because defining low, moderate and high income geographic locations, and locating projects in these locations is difficult. Assumptions affirming the density of public housing in low-income areas are supported by the fact that public housing units built between 1932 and 1963 were primarily located in slum areas and vacant industrial sites. This trend continued between 1964 and 1992, when a high density of projects were located in old core cities of metropolitan areas that were considered low income.\n\nIn 1933 the federally created Home Owners' Loan Corporation (HOLC) created maps that coded areas as credit-worthy based on the race of their occupants and the age of the housing stock. These maps, adopted by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) in 1944, established and sanctioned \"redlining\". Residents in predominately minority neighborhoods were unable to obtain long-term mortgages on their homes because banks would not authorize loans for the redlined areas. Unlike their white counterparts, many minorities were not able to receive financing to purchase the homes they lived in and did not have the means to move to more affluent areas where banks would authorize home loans.\n\nDue to the early discriminatory practices of mortgage lending, the black population remains less suburbanized than whites. Blacks, and to a lesser extent, other ethnic minorities remain isolated in urban environments with lesser access to transportation, jobs, health care and many of the amenities that are available to suburban residents. Thirty-nine percent of blacks live in the suburbs, compared to 58 percent of Asians, 49 percent of Hispanics and 71 percent of non-Hispanic whites. Further, post-World War II homebuilding in the suburbs benefitted whites, as housing prices tripled in the 1970s, enabling white homeowners to increase the equity of their homes. Because of this, blacks face higher costs of entry to the housing market, and those that are able to seek housing in the suburbs tend to live in lower-income, less desirable areas just outside the city limits.\n\n\"The United States Supreme Court defines steering as a 'practice by which real estate brokers and agents preserve and encourage patterns of racial segregation in available housing by steering members of racial and ethnic groups to buildings occupied primarily by members of such racial and ethnic groups and away from buildings and neighborhoods inhabited primarily by members of other races or groups.'\" The theory supporting steering asserts that real estate agents steer people of color toward neighborhoods that are disproportionately black and/or Hispanic, while white homebuyers are directed to primarily white neighborhoods, continually reinforcing segregation. In some studies, real estate agents present fewer and more inferior options to black homeseekers than they do to whites with the same socioeconomic characteristics.\n\nEven though the Fair Housing Act made discrimination in housing illegal, there is a belief that steering is still common. For example, real estate agents will assume white homebuyer's initial requests are an accurate reflection of their preferences, while they second guess a minority homebuyer's request, and adjust it to their personal perceptions. Moreover, some real estate agents will acknowledge that their actions are prohibited by saying such things as:\n\n\nA recent study of housing discrimination using matched pairs of home seekers who differed only in race to inquire about housing show that for those seeking rental units, blacks received unfavorable treatment 21.6 percent of the time, Hispanics 25.7 percent of the time, and Asians 21.5 percent of the time. Moreover, blacks interested in purchasing a home experienced discrimination 17 percent of the time, Hispanics 19.7 percent of the time and Asians 20.4 percent of the time.\n\nThese conclusions are challenged because it is not clear what level of discrimination is necessary to make an impact of the housing market. There is also criticism of the methods used to determine discrimination and it is not clear if paired testing accurately reflects the conditions in which people are actually searching for housing.\n\nTheorists suggest that people make choices about the location of their residence based on the racial make-up of a specific neighborhood and that racial segregation occurs as a result of these preferences.\n\n\"White flight\" is one theory supporting the idea that racial concentrations influence residential choice. The premise of this belief is that an increase in the population of blacks in a specific locality will cause whites to leave once the concentration of blacks reaches a certain level. The support for this hypothesis is largely anecdotal but analyses of surveys of white and black attitudes toward the racial make-up of neighborhoods confirm that some whites are uncomfortable with even a small number of black neighbors.\n\nWhites also have the highest degree of preference for completely homogeneous (100% white resident) racial makeup. Additionally, among whites, Latinos, and Asians, blacks are universally the least-preferred group of neighbors. This reaction may stem from the fact that statistically speaking, black neighborhoods have higher percentages of high school dropouts, single-parent families, and the unemployed, and these neighborhoods are likely to experience significantly higher rates of property crime, violent crime, and decreased home equity appreciation. In addition, schools populated by all-black or majority black students were found to have dramatically lower scores on standardized tests. The phenomenon of white flight may apply to all non-black races fleeing from neighborhoods with too many black residents.\n\nIn spite of these statistics over the last half century white Americans have expressed a greater willingness to live in neighborhoods with minorities. \"From 1958 to 1997 Gallup polls found that the proportion of a national sample of whites who said they would move if a black moved next door fell from 44 to just 1 percent. Additionally, the proportion of white respondents who would move in the face of 'great numbers' of black (sic) dropped from 80 to 18 percent.\"\n\nConcepts like white flight misrepresent the issue of housing preference by suggesting that a specific population enters an area and another decides to leave it. \"Empirical evidence shows that white flight does not cause racial transition in neighborhoods. Several preference studies and data from the American Housing Survey in 1980 and 1990 found both black and white households were less concerned about a neighborhood's racial mix - as long as a neighborhood remained stable, black and whites were willing to remain.\" Therefore, white flight might be fueled by economic reasons.\n\nResidential preferences of blacks are categorized by social-psychological and socioeconomic demographic characteristics. The theory behind social psychological residential preference is that segregation is a result of blacks choosing to live around other blacks because of cultural similarities, maintaining a sense of racial pride, or a desire to avoid living near another group because of fear of racial hostility. Other theories suggest demographic and socioeconomic factors such as age, gender and social class background influence residential choice. Empirical evidence to explain these assumptions is generally limited.\n\nOne empirical study completed in 2002 analyzed survey data from a random sample of blacks from Atlanta, Boston, Detroit and Los Angeles. The results of this study found that the housing preferences of blacks are largely attributed to discrimination and white hostility, not a desire to live with a similar racial group. In other words, the study found that blacks choose specific residences because they are afraid of hostility from whites.\n\nCritics of these theories suggest that the survey questions used in the research design for these studies imply that race is a greater factor in residential choice than access to schools, transportation, and jobs. They also suggest that surveys fail to consider the market influences on housing including availability and demand.\n\nExisting data on the role of immigration on residential segregation trends in the US suggest that foreign-born Hispanics, Asians and blacks often have higher rates of segregation than do native-born individuals from these groups. Segregation of immigrants is associated with their low-income status, language barriers, and support networks in these enclaves. Research on assimilation shows that while new immigrants settle in homogenous ethnic communities, segregation of immigrants declines as they gain socioeconomic status and move away from these communities, integrating with the native-born.\n\nAlthough it is not always connected to race and can sometimes be generalized by class, gentrification or urban renewal is another form of residential segregation. Gentrification is defined as higher income newcomers displacing lower income residents from up-and-coming urban neighborhoods. Critical race theory is used to examine race as an implicit assumption that merits investigation as demographic changes in the U.S. challenge these class-based definitions.\n\nLocation of housing is a determinant of a person's access to the job market, transportation, education, healthcare, and safety. People residing in neighborhoods with high concentrations of low-income and minority households experience higher mortality risks, poor health services, high rates of teenage pregnancy, and high crime rates. These neighborhoods also experience higher rates of unemployment, and lack of access to job networks and transportation, which prevents households from fully gaining and accessing employment opportunities. The result of isolation and segregation of minority and the economically disadvantaged is increased racial and income inequality, which in turn reinforces segregation. A 2015 Measure of America report on disconnected youth found that black youth in highly segregated metro areas are more likely to be disconnected from work and school. In 2014, the Child Opportunity Index measures very high to very low opportunity comparing race and ethnicity in the 100 largest US metropolitan areas in the US to compare inequalities and residential segregation.\n\nIn 1948, the Supreme Court outlawed the enforcement of racial covenants with \"Shelley v. Kraemer\", and two decades later the Fair Housing Act of 1968 incorporated legislation that prohibited discrimination in private and publicly assisted housing. The 1975 Home Mortgage Disclosure Act and the 1977 Community Reinvestment Act limited mortgage lenders' ability to provide discretion in issuing loans and requiring that lenders provide full disclosure of where and to whom they were providing housing loans, in addition to requiring that they provide loans for all areas where they do business. The passage of fair housing laws provided an opportunity for legal recourse against local and federal agencies that segregated residents and prohibited integrated communities.\n\nDespite these laws, residential segregation still persists. More strict enforcement of these laws could prevent discriminatory lending practices and racial steering. Moreover, educating property owners, real estate agents, and minorities about the Fair Housing Act and housing discrimination could help reduce segregation.\n\nThe class action lawsuit Hills v. Dorothy Gautreaux alleged that the development of Chicago Housing Authority's (CHA) public housing units in areas of high concentration of poor minorities violated federal Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) policies and the Fair Housing Act. The 1976 court decision resulted in HUD and CHA agreeing to mediate segregation imposed on Chicago public housing residents by providing Section 8 voucher assistance to more than 7,000 black families. The Section 8 assistance provided blacks the opportunity to move out of racially segregated areas and into mixed neighborhoods. Policymakers theorized that housing mobility would provide residents with access to \"social capital\", including ties to informal job networks. About seventy-five percent of the Gautreaux households were required to move to predominately white suburban neighborhoods while the remaining 25% were allowed to move to urban areas with 30% or more black residents.\n\nSocial scientists researched the impacts of mobility on Gautreaux participants and found that children with access to better performing neighborhoods experienced improvements in educational performance, were less likely to drop out of school and more likely to take college preparation classes than their peers who had moved to more segregated areas of Chicago.\n\nCongress authorized the Moving to Opportunity for Fair Housing Demonstration (MTO) in 1993. MTO shares a similar design to Gautreaux. However, the program focuses on economic desegregation instead of racial desegregation. , MTO has allocated nearly $80 million in federal and philanthropic funding to disperse and de-concentrate low-income neighborhoods, track the short and long-term effects of MTO program participants, and determine if small low-income de-concentration programs can be expanded to a national scale. An early randomized, controlled study on differential mental health effects indicates the pairing of portability housing vouchers to promote quality housing and lives with other programs, such as tobacco use of youth.\n\nIn addition to the MTO program, the federal government provided funding to demolish 100,000 of the nation's worst public housing units and rebuild the projects with mixed income communities. This program, known as HOPE VI, has received mixed results. Some of the rebuilt projects continue to struggle with gangs, crime, and drugs. Some tenants choose not to return to the locations after redevelopment. While it may be too soon to determine the overall effect of the HOPE VI program, the Bush administration recommended termination of the program in 2004.\n\nInclusionary zoning practices refer to local planning ordinances that can increase the supply of affordable housing, reduce the cost of creating housing, and enforce regulations that improve the health, safety and quality of life for low income and minority households.\n\nWithin the Atlanta Metropolitan Area, residential segregation is highest among DeKalb and Fulton Counties, the two most urbanized counties in the Atlanta Metropolitan Area. These counties consist of 70% of the black residents in Atlanta, meaning that a strong majority of Atlanta's black citizens are living in the city's most urbanized areas. In addition, white families have been steadily moving to suburban areas around Atlanta since the 1980s, leaving counties such as DeKalb and Fulton to consist of majority or nearly majority black residents, with 55.3% of residents in DeKalb County being black and 44.5% of residents in Fulton County being black. Furthermore, the suburban areas outside of Atlanta and Fulton and DeKalb county tend to be less racially segregated, yet black residents in these suburbs, as well as in more urban areas, are still the most segregated of any race of residents in Atlanta. According to the Annie E. Casey Foundation, the current state of residential segregation, largely by race, occurred due to housing development practices and city infrastructure changes during the 20th century. In order to implement new housing programs and interstates throughout the 20th century, the City of Atlanta chose to remove many poor or low income neighborhoods. The removal of these neighborhoods disproportionately affected black Atlanta citizens, and made housing more expensive and poverty more concentrated on the southern side of Atlanta, in counties such as DeKalb and Fulton.\nAs more white residents moved to the suburbs throughout the 1980s, black residents remained in many of the same urban areas. The migration of much of the middle class to the suburbs of Atlanta decreased poverty levels for black residents in Atlanta as a whole, but it left residents at or near poverty exposed to much higher levels of poverty as the middle class migrated out and took resources with them. Furthermore, moves made by black residents at or below the poverty level to escape impoverished neighborhoods within Atlanta were overshadowed by the same moves made by white residents, leaving mainly black residents exposed to poverty within metropolitan Atlanta after movements made by the middle class. This shift in residence has disproportionately left black citizens in Atlanta exposed to poverty, with 80% of black children living in Atlanta being exposed to poverty. Within these areas, which are largely in southern Atlanta in areas of DeKalb and Fulton County, residents are having to spend 30% of their annual income on housing.\n\nResearch gathered from the Georgia Budget and Policy Institute (GBPI) shows that in Georgia, schools with higher numbers of students living in poverty perform more poorly on standardized state exams and are given poorer scores from the Georgia Governor's Office of Student Achievement, with 99% of schools in extreme poverty and 79% of schools in high-poverty receiving grades of D or F from the Office of Student Achievement. In addition, the GBPI found that in most of these struggling schools, students are primarily of racial minorities: In 98% of public schools in Georgia considered to be extremely impoverished, 75% or more of the students are black or Hispanic. In Atlanta, students from northern counties are enrolled in pre-school in higher rates than in the southern counties (such as Fulton and DeKalb), and 11 of the top 14 performing schools within the Atlanta Public School District were in Atlanta's northern counties.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32392374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32392374", "title": "Roger de Piles' artists from France", "text": "Roger de Piles' artists from France\n\nRoger de Piles's L'Abrégé de la vie des peintres...avec un traité du peintre parfait (\"The Art of Painting and the Lives of the Painters\"), was a major art biography of painters. It was written by the French spy Roger de Piles. In 1692, during the War of the League of Augsburg, he was arrested in the Hague carrying a false passport and imprisoned for the next five years, where he wote his \"L'Abrégé\" in 7 parts; 1) Sketch of the perfect painter, 2) Greek painters; 3) Painters from Rome & Florence; 4) Painters from Venice; 5) Painters from Lombardy; 6) Painters from Germany and the Low Countries; 7) Painters from France and ending with his famous \"Balance of painters\". The book was finally published in 1699 following his appointment as Conseiller Honoraire to the Académie de peinture et de sculpture in Paris. \n\nPart 7, Painters from France, includes in order of appearance in the text, the following list of artists:\n\n"}
{"id": "275014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=275014", "title": "Sanchi", "text": "Sanchi\n\nSanchi Stupa, also written Sanci, is a Buddhist complex, famous for its Great Stupa, on a hilltop at Sanchi Town in Raisen District of the State of Madhya Pradesh, India. It is located in north-east of Bhopal, capital of Madhya Pradesh. The Great Stupa at Sanchi is one of the oldest stone structures in India, and an important monument of Indian Architecture. It was originally commissioned by the emperor Ashoka in the 3rd century BCE. Its nucleus was a simple hemispherical brick structure built over the relics of the Buddha. It was crowned by the \"chatra\", a parasol-like structure symbolising high rank, which was intended to honour and shelter the relics. The original construction work of this stupa was overseen by Ashoka, whose wife Devi was the daughter of a merchant of nearby Vidisha. Sanchi was also her birthplace as well as the venue of her and Ashoka's wedding. In the 1st century BCE, four elaborately carved toranas (ornamental gateways) and a balustrade encircling the entire structure were added. The Sanchi Stupa built during Mauryan period was made of bricks. The composite flourished until the 11th century.\n\nSanchi is the center of a region with a number of stupas, all within a few miles of Sanchi, including Satdhara (9 km to the W of Sanchi, 40 stupas, the Relics of Sariputra and Mahamoggallana, now enshrined in the new Vihara, were unearthed there), Bhojpur (also called Morel Khurd, a fortified hilltop with 60 stupas) and Andher (respectively 11 km and 17 km SE of Sanchi), as well as Sonari (10 km SW of Sanchi). Further south, about 100 km away, is Saru Maru. Bharhut is 300 km to the northeast.\n\nThe \"Great Stupa\" (or \"Stupa No1\") at Sanchi is the oldest structure and was originally commissioned by the emperor Ashoka the Great of the Maurya Empire in the 3rd century BCE. Its nucleus was a hemispherical brick structure built over the relics of the Buddha, with a raised terrace encompassing its base, and a railing and stone umbrella on the summit, the chatra, a parasol-like structure symbolizing high rank. The original Stupa only had about half the diameter of today's stupa, which is the result of enlargement by the Sungas. It was covered in brick, in contrast to the stones that now cover it.\n\nAccording to one version of the Mahavamsa, the Buddhist chronicle of Sri Lanka, Ashoka was closely connected to the region of Sanchi. When he was heir-apparent and was journeying as Viceroy to Ujjain, he is said to have halted at Vidisha (10 kilometers from Sanchi), and there married the daughter of a local banker. She was called Devi and later gave Ashoka two sons, Ujjeniya and Mahendra, and a daughter Sanghamitta. After Ashoka's accession, Mahendra headed a Buddhist mission, sent probably under the auspices of the Emperor, to Sri Lanka, and that before setting out to the island he visited his mother at Chetiyagiri near Vidisa, thought to be Sanchi. He was lodged there in a sumptuous vihdra or monastery, which she herself is said to have had erected.\n\nA pillar of finely polished sandstone, one of the Pillars of Ashoka, was also erected on the side of the main Torana gateway. The bottom part of the pillar still stands. The upper parts of the pillar are at the nearby Sanchi Archaeological Museum. The capital consists in four lions, which probably supported a Wheel of Law, as also suggested . The pillar has an Ashokan inscription (Schism Edict) and an inscription in the ornamental Sankha Lipi from the Gupta period. The Ashokan inscription is engraved in early Brahmi characters. It is unfortunately much damaged, but the commands it contains appear to be the same as those recorded in the Sarnath and Kausambi edicts, which together form the three known instances of Ashoka's \"Schism Edict\". It relates to the penalties for schism in the Buddhist sangha:\n\nThe pillar, when intact, was about 42 feet in height and consisted of a round and slightly tapering monolithic shaft, with bell-shaped capital surmounted by an abacus and a crowning ornament of four lions, set back to back, the whole finely finished and polished to a remarkable luster from top to bottom. The abacus is adorned with four flame palmette designs separated one from the other by pairs of geese, symbolical perhaps of the flock of the Buddha's disciples. The lions from the summit, though now quite disfigured, still testify to the skills of the sculptors.\n\nThe sandstone out of which the pillar is carved came from the quarries of Chunar several hundred miles away, implying that the builders were able to transport a block of stone over forty feet in length and weighing almost as many tons over such a distance. They probably used water transport, using rafts during the rainy season up the Ganges, Jumna and Betwa rivers.\n\nAnother structure which has been dated, at least partially, to the 3rd century BCE, is the so-called , one of the first instances of free-standing temples in India. Temple 40 has remains of three different periods, the earliest period dating to the Maurya age, which probably makes it contemporary to the creation of the Great Stupa. An inscription even suggests it might have been established by Bindusara, the father of Ashoka. The original 3rd century BCE temple was built on a high rectangular stone platform, 26.52x14x3.35 metres, with two flights of stairs to the east and the west. It was an apsidal hall, probably made of timber. It was burnt down sometime in the 2nd century BCE. \n\nLater, the platform was enlarged to 41.76x27.74 metres and re-used to erect a pillared hall with fifty columns (5x10) of which stumps remain. Some of these pillars have inscriptions of the 2nd century BCE. In the 7th or 8th century a small shrine was established in one corner of the platform, re-using some of the pillars and putting them in their present position.\n\nOn the basis of Ashokavadana, it is presumed that the stupa may have been vandalized at one point sometime in the 2nd century BCE, an event some have related to the rise of the Shunga emperor Pushyamitra Shunga who overtook the Mauryan Empire as an army general. It has been suggested that Pushyamitra may have destroyed the original stupa, and his son Agnimitra rebuilt it. The original brick stupa was covered with stone during the Shunga period.\n\nGiven the rather decentralized and fragmentary nature of the Shunga state, with many cities actually issuing their own coinage, as well as the relative dislike of the Shungas for Buddhism, some authors argue that the constructions of that period in Sanchi cannot really be called \"Shunga\". They were not the result of royal sponsorship, in contrast with what happened during the Mauryas, and most of the dedications at Sanchi were private or collective, rather than the result of royal patronage.\n\nThe style of the Shunga period decorations at Sanchi bear a close similarity to those of Bharhut, as well as the peripheral balustrades at the Mahabodhi Temple in Bodh Gaya.\n\nDuring the later rule of the Shunga, the stupa was expanded with stone slabs to almost twice its original size. The dome was flattened near the top and crowned by three superimposed parasols within a square railing. With its many tiers it was a symbol of the dharma, the Wheel of the Law. The dome was set on a high circular drum meant for circumambulation, which could be accessed via a double staircase. A second stone pathway at ground level was enclosed by a stone balustrade. The railings around Stupa 1 do not have artistic reliefs. These are only slabs, with some dedicatory inscriptions. These elements are dated to circa 150 BCE, or 175-125 BCE. Although the railings are made up of stone, they are copied from a wooden prototype, and as John Marshall has observed the joints between the coping stones have been cut at a slant, as wood is naturally cut, and not vertically as stone should be cut. Besides the short records of the donors written on the railings in Brahmi script, there are two later inscriptions on the railings added during the time of the Gupta Period. Some reliefs are visible on the stairway balustrade, but they are probably slightly later than those at Stupa No2, and are dated to 125-100 BCE. Some authors consider that these reliefs, rather crude and without obvious Buddhist connotations, are the oldest reliefs of all Sanchi, slightly older even than the reliefs of Sanchi Stupa No.2.\n\nThe stupas which seem to have been commissioned during the rule of the Shungas are the Second and then the Third stupas (but not the highly decorated gateways, which are from the following Satavahana period, as known from inscriptions), following the ground balustrade and stone casing of the Great Stupa (Stupa No 1). The reliefs are dated to circa 115 BCE for the medallions, and 80 BCE for the pillar carvings, slightly before the reliefs of Bharhut for the earliest, with some reworks down to the 1st century CE.\nStupa No2 was established later than the Great Stupa, but it is probably displaying the earliest architectural ornaments. For the first time, clearly Buddhist themes are represented, particularly the four events in the life of the Buddha that are: the Nativity, the Enlightenment, the First Sermon and the Decease.\n\nThe decorations of Stupa No.2 have been called \"the oldest extensive stupa decoration in existence\", and this Stupa is considered as the birthplace of Jataka illustrations. The reliefs at Stupa No.2 bear mason marks in Kharoshthi, as opposed to the local Brahmi script. This seems to imply that foreign workers from the north-west (from the region of Gandhara, where Kharoshthi was the current script) were responsible for the motifs and figures that can be found on the railings of the stupa. Foreigners from Gandhara are otherwise known to have visited the region around the same time: in 115 BCE, the embassy of Heliodorus from Indo-Greek king Antialkidas to the court of the Sungas king Bhagabhadra in nearby Vidisha is recorded, in which Heliodorus established the Heliodorus pillar in a dedication to Vāsudeva. This would indicate that relations had improved at that time, and that people traveled between the two realms.\n\nStupa No.3 was built during the time of the Shungas, who also built the railing around it as well as the staircase. The Relics of Sariputra and Mahamoggallana, the disciples of the Buddha are said to have been placed in Stupa No 3, and relics boxes were excavated tending to confirm this.\n\nThe reliefs on the railings are said to be slightly later than those of Stupa No.2\n\nThe single torana gateway oriented to the south is not Shunga, and was built later under the Satavahanas, probably circa 50 BCE.\n\nPillar 25 at Sanchi is also attributed to the Sungas, in the 2nd-1st century BCE, and is considered as similar in design to the Heliodorus pillar, locally called \"Kham Baba\" pillar, dedicated by Heliodorus, the ambassador to the Indo-Greek king Antialkidas, in nearby Vidisha circa 100 BCE. That it belongs to about the period of the Sunga, is clear alike from its design and from the character of the surface dressing.\n\nThe height of the pillar, including the capital, is 15 ft, its diameter at the base 1 ft. 4 in. Up to a height of 4 ft. 6 in. the shaft is octagonal; above that, sixteen-sided. In the octagonal portion all the facets are flat, but in the upper section the alternate facets are fluted, the eight other sides being produced by a concave chamfering of the arrises of the octagon. This method of finishing off the arris at the point of transition between the two sections are features characteristic of the second and first centuries BCE. The west side of the shaft is split off, but the tenon at the top, to which the capital was mortised, is still preserved. The capital is of the usual bell-shaped Persepolitan type, with lotus leaves falling over the shoulder of the bell. Above this is a circular cable necking, then a second circular necking relieved by a bead and lozenge pattern, and, finally, a deep square abacus adorned with a railing in relief. The crowning feature, probably a lion, has disappeared.\n\nFrom the 1st century BCE, the highly decorated gateways were built, the work being apparently commissioned by the Satavahana. The balustrade and the gateways were also colored. The gateways/toranas are generally dated to the 1st century CE.\n\nThe \"\" in the Brahmi script records the gift of one of the top architraves of the Southern Gateway by the artisans of the Satavahana king Satakarni:\nThere are some uncertainties about the date and the identity of the Satakarni in question, as a king Satakarni is mentioned in the Hathigumpha inscription which is sometimes dated to the 2nd century BCE. Also, several Satavahana kings used the name \"Satakarni\", which complicates the matter. Usual dates given for the gateways range from 50 BCE to the 1st century CE. Another early Satavahana monument is known, of king Kanha (100-70 BCE) at the Nasik caves, which is much less developed artistically than the Sanchi toranas.\n\nAlthough made of stone, the torana gateways were carved and constructed in the manner of wood and the gateways were covered with narrative sculptures. It has also been suggested that the stone reliefs were made by ivory carvers from nearby Vidisha, and an inscription on the Southern Gateway of the Great Stupa (\"\") was dedicated by the Guild of Ivory Carvers of Vidisha. \nThe inscription reads: \"\" meaning \"The ivory-workers from Vidisha have done the carving\". Some of the Begram ivories or the \"Pompeii Lakshmi\" give an indication of the kind of ivory works that could have influenced the carvings at Sanchi.\n\nThe reliefs show scenes from the life of the Buddha integrated with everyday events that would be familiar to the onlookers and so make it easier for them to understand the Buddhist creed as relevant to their lives. At Sanchi and most other stupas the local population donated money for the embellishment of the stupa to attain spiritual merit. There was no direct royal patronage. Devotees, both men and women, who donated money towards a sculpture would often choose their favourite scene from the life of the Buddha and then have their names inscribed on it. This accounts for the random repetition of particular episodes on the stupa (Dehejia 1992).\n\nOn these stone carvings the Buddha was never depicted as a human figure, due to aniconism in Buddhism. Instead the artists chose to represent him by certain attributes, such as the horse on which he left his father’s home, his footprints, or a canopy under the bodhi tree at the point of his enlightenment. The human body was thought to be too confining for the Buddha.\n\nSimilarites have been found in the designs of the capitals of various areas of northern India from the time of Ashoka to the time of the Satavahanas at Sanchi: particularly between the Pataliputra capital at the Mauryan Empire capital of Pataliputra (3rd century BCE), the pillar capitals at the Sunga Empire Buddhist complex of Bharhut (2nd century BCE), and the pillar capitals of the Satavahanas at Sanchi (1st centuries BCE/CE).\n\nThe earliest known example in India, the Pataliputra capital (3rd century BCE) is decorated with rows of repeating rosettes, ovolos and bead and reel mouldings, wave-like scrolls and side volutes with central rosettes, around a prominent central flame palmette, which is the main motif. These are quite similar to Classical Greek designs, and the capital has been described as quasi-Ionic. Greek influence, as well as Persian Achaemenid influence have been suggested.\n\nThe , of roughly the same period, also has a central flame palmette design on a square-section central pillar, but this time, surrounded by lions, in the same way as many of the other Pillars of Ashoka.\n\nThe pillar capital in Bharhut, dated to the 2nd century BCE during the Sunga Empire period, also incorporates many of these characteristics, with a central anta capital with many rosettes, beads-and-reels, as well as a central palmette design. Importantly, recumbent animals (lions, symbols of Buddhism) were added, in the style of the Pillars of Ashoka.\n\nThe Sanchi pillar capital is keeping the general design, seen at Bharhut a century earlier, of recumbent lions grouped around a central square-section post, with the central design of a flame palmette, which started with the Pataliputra capital. However the design of the central post is now simpler, with the flame palmette taking all the available room. Elephants were later used to adorn the pillar capitals (still with the central palmette design), and lastly, Yakshas (here the palmette design disappears).\n\nVarious Jatakas are illustrated. These are Buddhist moral tales relating edifying events of the former lives of the Buddha as he was still a Bodhisattva. Among the Jatakas being depicted are the Syama Jataka and the Mahakapi Jataka.\n\nNumerous miracles made by the Buddha are recorded. Among them:\n\nNumerous scene refer to the temptation of the Buddha, when he was confronted with the seductive daughters of Mara and with his army of demons. Having resisted the temptations of Mara, the Buddha finds enlightenement.\nOther similar scenes on the same subject:\n\nThe southern gate of Stupa No1, thought to be oldest and main entrance to the stupa, has several depictions of the story of the Buddha's relics, starting with the War over the Relics.\n\nAfter the death of the Buddha, the Mallas of Kushinagar wanted to keep his ashes, but the other kingdoms also wanting their part went to war and besieged the city of Kushinagar. Finally, an agreement was reached, and the Buddha's cremation relics were divided among 8 royal families and his disciples. This famous view shows warfare techniques at the time of the Satavahanas, as well as a view of the city of Kushinagar of the Mallas, which has been relied on for the understanding of ancient Indian cities.\n\nOther narrative panels related to the War over the Buddha's Relics at Sanchi are:\n\nAccording to Buddhist legend, a few centuries later, the relics would be removed from the eight guardian kingdoms by King Ashoka, and enshrined into 84,000 stupas. Ashoka obtained the ashes from seven of the guardian kingdoms, but failed to take the ashes from the Nagas at Ramagrama who were too powerful, and were able to keep them. This scene is depicted in one of the transversal portions of the southern gateway of Stupa No1 at Sanchi. Ashoka is shown on the right in his charriot and his army, the stupa with the relics is in the center, and the Naga kings with their serpent hoods at the extreme left under the trees.\nAshoka went to Bodh Gaya to visit the Bodhi Tree under which the Buddha had his enlightenment, as described his Major Rock Edict No.8. However Ashoka was profoundly grieved when he discovered that the sacred pipal tree was not properly being taken care of and dying out due to the neglect of Queen Tiṣyarakṣitā.\n\nAs a consequence, Ashoka endeavoured to take care of the Bodhi Tree, and built a temple around it. This temple became the center of Bodh Gaya. A sculpture at Sanchi, southern gateway of Stupa No1, shows Ashoka in grief being supported by his two Queens. Then the relief above shows the Bodhi Tree prospering inside its new temple. Numerous other sculptures at Sanchi show scenes of devotion towards the Bodhi Tree, and the Bodhi Tree inside its temple at Bodh Gaya.\n\nOther versions of the relief depicting the temple for the Bodhi Tree are visible at Sanchi, such as the \n\nSome of the friezes of Sanchi also show devotees in Greek attire. The official notice at Sanchi describes \"\". The men are depicted with short curly hair, often held together with a headband of the type commonly seen on Greek coins. The clothing too is Greek, complete with tunics, capes and sandals, typical of the . The musical instruments are also quite characteristic, such as the double flute called aulos. Also visible are carnyx-like horns.\n\nThe actual participation of Yavanas/Yonas (Greek donors) to the construction of Sanchi is known from three inscriptions made by self-declared Yavana donors:\n\nAround 113 BCE, Heliodorus, an ambassador of the Indo-Greek ruler Antialcidas, is known to have dedicated a pillar, the Heliodorus pillar, around 5 miles from Sanchi, in the village of Vidisha.\n\nAnother rather similar foreigner is also depicted in Bharhut, the Bharhut Yavana (circa 100 BCE), also wearing a tunic and a royal headband in the manner of a Greek king, and displaying a Buddhist triratna on his sword. can be seen in the region of Odisha, in the Udayagiri and Khandagiri Caves.\n\nIn all these scenes, the Buddha is never represented, being absent altogether even from scenes of his life where he is playing a central role: in the \"\" he is just represented by his path on the water; in the \"\", he walks in the air at the end of the procession, but his presence is only suggested by people turning their heads upward toward the symbol of his path.\nIn one of the reliefs of the \"\", King Suddhodana is seen praying as his son the Buddha rises in the air. The Buddha praised is praised by celestial beings, but only his path is visible in the form of a slab hanging in middle air, called a \"chankrama\" or \"promenade\".\n\nOtherwise, the presence of the Buddha is symbolized by an empty throne, as in the scene of \"\". Similar scenes would later appear in the Greco-Buddhist art of Gandhara, but this time with representations of the Buddha. John Marshall detailed every panel in his seminal work \"A Guide to Sanchi\".\n\nThe gateways depict various scenes of the life of the Buddha, as well as events after his death, in particular the War of the Relics and the efforts of emperor Ashoka to spread the Buddhist faith.\n\nThe Southern Gateway of Stupa No1 is thought to be oldest and main entrance to the stupa. The narrative friezes of this gateway put great emphasis on the relics of the Buddha, and on the role of Ashoka in spreading the Buddhist faith. This gateway is one of the two which were reconstructed by Major Cole in 1882–83. The whole of the right jamb and half of the left are new and blank, as well as the west end of the lowest architrave, the cast end of the middle architrave, and the box vertical uprights between the architraves.\n\n<noinclude>\n\nThe Northern Gateway is the best preserved of all the gateways, and was the second to be erected. The numerous panels relate various events of the life of the Buddha. Only one atypical panel (Right pillar, Inner face/ Top panel) shows \"\".\n\n<noinclude>\n\nThe Eastern Gateway describes historical events during the life of the Buddha, as well as several miracles performed by the Buddha. It was the third gateway to be erected.\n\n<noinclude>\n\nThe Western Gateway of Stupa 1 is the last of the four gateway of the Great Stupa to have been built.\n\n<noinclude>\n\nThe gateway of Stupa No 3, is the last of all the Satavahana gateways that were built at Sanchi. It is located to the immediate south of Stupa No 3, is smaller than the four gateways encircling the Great Stupa. It is also slightly older, and generally dated to the 1st century CE.\n\n<noinclude>\n\nFurther stupas and other religious Buddhist structures were added over the centuries until the 12th century CE.\n\nThe rule of the Satavahanas in the area Sanchi during the 1st centuries BCE/CE is well attested by the finds of Satavahana copper coins in Vidisha, Ujjain and Eran in the name of Satakarni, as well as the Satakarni inscription on the Southern Gateway of Stupa No.1.\n\nSoon after, however, the region fell to the Scythian Western Satraps, possibly under Nahapana (120 CE), and then certainly under Rudradaman I (130-150 CE), as shown by his inscriptions in Junagadh. The Satavahanas probably regained the region for some time, but were again replaced by the Western Satraps in the mid-3rd century CE, during the rule of Rudrasena II (255-278 CE). The Western Satraps remained well into the 4th century as shown by the nearby Kanakerha inscription mentioning the construction of a well by the Saka chief and \"righteous conqueror\" Sridharavarman. Therefore, it seems that the Kushan Empire did not extend to the Sanchi area, and the few Kushan works of art found in Sanchi appear to have come from Mathura.\n\nThe next rulers of the area were the Guptas. Inscriptions of a victorious Chandragupta II in the year 412-423 CE can be found on the railing near the Eastern Gateway of the Great Stupa. \n\nTemple 17 is an early Buddhist stand-alone temple (following the great cave temples of Indian rock-cut architecture), as it dates to the early Gupta period (5th century CE). It consists of a flat roofed square sanctum with a portico and four pillars. The interior and three sides of the exterior are plain and undecorated but the front and the pillars are elegantly carved, giving the temple an almost ‘classical’ appearance, not unlike the 2nd century rock-cut cave temples of the Nasik caves.\n\nNear the Northwern Gateway also used to stand a Vajrapani pillar. Another pillar of Padmapani used to stand, and is now in the Victoria and Albert Museum, London.\n\nPillar No26 stands a little to the north of the Sunga pillar No25. It belongs to the early Gupta age. Apart from its design, it is distinguished\nfrom the other pillars on the site by the unusual quality and colour of its stone, which is harder than that ordinarily quarried in the Udayagiri hill, and of a pale\nbuff hue splashed and streaked with amethyst. At Sanchi this particular variety of stone was used only in monuments of the Gupta period. This pillar was approximately 22 ft. 6 in. in height and was composed of two pieces only, one comprising the circular shaft and square base, the other the bell-capital, necking, lions and crowning chakra. On the northwest side of the lowest section, which is still in situ, is a short mutilated inscription in Gupta characters recording the gift of the pillar by a \"viharasvamin\" (master of a monastery), the son of Gotaisimhabala.\nAs was usual with pillars of the Gupta age, the square base projected above the ground level, the projection in this case being 1 ft. 2 in., and was enclosed by a small square platform. The lion capital of this pillar is a feeble imitation of the one which surmounted the pillar of Asoka, with the addition of a wheel at the summit and with certain other variations of detail. For example, the cable necking above the bell-capital, is composed of a series of strands bound together with a riband. Also, the reliefs on the circular abacus, consist of birds and lotuses of unequal sizes disposed in irregular fashion, not with the symmetrical precision of earlier Indian art. Finally, these lions, like those on the pillars of the Southern Gateway, are provided with five claws on each foot, and their modelling exhibits little regard for truth and little artistry.\n\nThere has been much confusion about the dating of this pillars, since it was often presented from the beginning as a pillar of Ashoka. Marshall himself describes the pillar as early Gupta Empire in convincing terms, either from the points of view of material, technique or artistry. The Government of India Photo Division describes it in as \"An Asoka pillar and its broken lion capital near the south gateway of the Great Stupa.\" . The British Library Online also describes it as 3rd century BCE Mauryan, although probably pasting the original text from the 19th century . Sachim Kumar Tiwary in \"Monolithic Pillars of The Gupta Period\", affirms a Gupta date. The Sanchi Archaeological Museum gives it a date of 600 CE, which would even put it beyond the Gupta period proper, at the time of the Later Gupta dynasty.\n\nThe massive pillar near the North Gateway, numbered 35 in the plan, was erected during the Gupta period. Every feature, whether structural, stylistic or technical, is typical of\nGupta workmanship. Most of the shaft has been destroyed, but the stump still remains in situ, and the foundations are intact. The form, too, of the platform around its base is sufficiently clear, and the capital and statue which it is said to have supported, are both relatively well-preserved. What remains of the shaft is 9 ft. in length, 3 ft. 10 in. of which, measured from the top, are circular and smooth, and the remainder, constituting the base, square and rough-dressed. In the Gupta age, it was the common practice to keep the\nbases of such monolithic columns square, whereas those of the Maurya age were invariably circular. The columns of the Maurya period are distinguished by its exquisite dressing and highly polished surface; but in this case the dressing of the stone is characterized by no such lustrous finish.\n\nThe Persepolitan capital and square abacus ornamented with a balustrade in relief are cut entire from a single block of stone. So, too, is the statue\nwhich was found lying alongside the capital and which is believed to have belonged to the same pillar. This statue represents a man clad in a dhoti and adorned with bracelets, earrings, bejewelled necklace and headdress. The hair falls in curls over the shoulders and back, and beneath it at the back fall the ends of two ribbons. It is thought that the statue represents Vajrapani. The attribution to Vajrapani is indicated by the stub of a vajra thunderbold in the right hand and a halo of 24 rays. The dedication of the Vajrapani pillar is also mentioned in a 5th-century inscription.\n\nAn interesting feature of the image is the halo which is pierced with twelve small holes evenly disposed around its edge. Manifestly the halo, is too small in proportion to the size of the statue, and these holes were no doubt intended for the attachment of the outer rays, which were probably fashioned out of copper gilt, the rest of the statue itself being possibly painted or gilded. This statue stood on the summit of the pillar, and is a work of the Gupta period. The statue is currently in the Sanchi Archaeological Museum and is attributed to the 5th century CE.\nFollowing the destruction of the Guptas by the Alchon Huns, and with the decline of Buddhism in India, Buddhist artistic creation at Sanchi slowed down.\n\nWith the decline of Buddhism in India, the monuments of Sanchi went out of use and fell into a state of disrepair. In 1818, General Taylor of the Bengal Cavalry recorded a visit to Sanchi. At that time the monuments were left in a relatively good condition. Although the jungle had overgrown the complex, several of the Gateways were still standing, and Sanchi, being situated on a hill, had escaped the onslaught of the Muslim conquerors who had destroyed the nearby city of Vidisha (Bhilsa) only 5 miles away.\n\nAlthough the initial craftsmen for stone reliefs in Sanchi seem to have come from Gandhara, with the first reliefs being carved at Sanchi Stupa No.2 circa 115 BCE, the art of Sanchi thereafter developed considerably in the 1st century BCE/CE and is thought to predate the blooming of the Greco-Buddhist art of Gandhara, which went on to flourish until around the 4th century CE. The art of Sanchi is thus considered as the ancestor of the didactic forms of Buddhist art that would follow, such as the art of Gandhara. It is also, with Bharhut, the oldest.\n\nAs didactic Buddhist reliefs were adopted by Gandhara, the content evolved somewhat together with the emergence of Mahayana Buddhism, a more theistic understanding of Buddhism. First, although many of the artistic themes remained the same (such as Maya's dream, The Great Departure, Mara's attacks...), many of the stories of the previous lives of the Buddha were replaced by the even more numerous stories about the Bodhisattvas of the Mahayana pantheon. Second, another important difference is the treatment of the image of the Buddha: whereas the art of Sanchi, however detailed and sophisticated, is aniconic, the art of Gandhara added illustrations of the Buddha as a man wearing Greek-style clothing to play a central role in its didactic reliefs.\n\nThe presence of Greeks at or near Sanchi at the time is known (Indo-Greek ambassador Heliodorus at Vidisha circa 100 BCE, the Greek-like , or the Greek \"Yavana\" devotees who had dedicatory inscriptions made at Sanchi), but more precise details about exchanges or possible routes of transmission are elusive.\n\nGeneral Henry Taylor (1784–1876) who was a British officer in 1818 in the Third Maratha War of 1817–1819, was the first known Western historian to document (in English) the existence of Sanchi Stupa. The site was in a total state of abandon. Amateur archaeologists and treasure hunters ravaged the site until 1881, when proper restoration work was initiated. Between 1912 and 1919 the structures were restored to their present condition under the supervision of Sir John Marshall.\n\nSince Sanchi remained mostly intact however, only few artifacts of Sanchi can be found in Western Museum: for example, is at the Victoria and Albert Museum in London, and can be seen at the British Museum.\n\nToday, around fifty monuments remain on the hill of Sanchi, including three main stupas and several temples. The monuments have been listed among other famous monuments in the UNESCO World Heritage Sites since 1989.\n\nThe reliefs of Sanchi, especially those depicting Indian cities, have been important in trying to imagine what ancient Indian cities look like. Many modern simulations are based on the urban illustrations of Sanchi.\n\nThe bone relics (asthi avashesh) of Buddhist Masters along with the reliquaries, obtained by Maisey and Cunningham were divided and taken by them to England as personal trophies. Maisey's family sold the objects to Victoria and Albert Museum where they stayed for a long time. The Buddhists in England, Sri Lanka and India, led by the Mahabodhi Society demanded that they be returned. Some of the relics of Sariputta and Moggallana were sent back to Sri Lanka, where they were publicly displayed in 1947. It was such a grand event where the entire population of Sri Lanka came to visit them. However, they were later returned to India. But a new temple Chetiyagiri Vihara was constructed to house the relics, in 1952. In a nationalistic sense, this marked the formal reestablishment of the Buddhist tradition in India. Some of the relics were obtained by Burma.\n\nSanchi, especially Stupa 1, has a large number of Brahmi inscriptions. Although most of them are small and mention donations, they are of great historical significance. James Prinsep in 1837, noted that most of them ended with the same two Brahmi characters. Princep took them as \"danam\" (donation), which permitted the decipherment of the Brahmi script.\n\nAn analysis of the donation records shows that while a large fraction of the donors were local (with no town specified), a number of them were from Ujjain, Vidisha, Kurara, Nadinagar, Mahisati, Kurghara, Bhogavadhan and Kamdagigam. Three inscriptions are known from Yavana (Indo-Greek) donors at Sanchi, the clearest of which reads \"Setapathiyasa Yonasa danam\" (\"Gift of the Yona of Setapatha\"), Setapatha being an uncertain city.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48878990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48878990", "title": "SkELL", "text": "SkELL\n\nSkELL is an abbreviation of Sketch Engine for Language Learning. It is a web interface for language learning. The main purpose is to help students and teachers of languages. SkELL has its own corpus that was gathered so that contained texts covering everyday, standard, formal, and professional language. In the corpus, there are a total of more than 60 million sentences and more than one billion words.\n\nThe SkELL interface provides features such as simple search showing words in context, but the maximum of displayed lines (concordances, in fact) is 40. However, the frequency of searched query is located below the search box and expressed with the number \"hits per million\". The second function is word sketch which enables showing collocates for a given word or words. The last one is named as similar words. It visualises similar words to searched word in a word cloud.\n\nThe tool has been available also for the Russian language (since 2015) and the Czech language (since 2017). \n\nSkELL offers three types of searches.\n\n\nThe corpus for English SkELL consists of English Wikipedia (special sorted out 130,000 articles), English collection of Project Gutenberg, a subset from the web corpus enTenTen14, the whole British National Corpus, and free new sources.\n\nAfter gathering and pre-cleaning (all structures have removed except sentences) data has run through processing pipe: normalization, tokenization, TreeTagger for English, and deduplication. The further process was a compilation of the corpus using manatee indexing library. In the end, all sentences were scored with the GDEX tool.\n\n"}
{"id": "2212696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2212696", "title": "Social comparison theory", "text": "Social comparison theory\n\nSocial comparison theory, initially proposed by social psychologist Leon Festinger in 1954, centers on the belief that there is a drive within individuals to gain accurate self-evaluations. The theory explains how individuals evaluate their own opinions and abilities by comparing themselves to others in order to reduce uncertainty in these domains, and learn how to define the self.\n\nFollowing the initial theory, research began to focus on social comparison as a way of self-enhancement, introducing the concepts of downward and upward comparisons and expanding the motivations of social comparisons.\n\nIn the initial theory, Festinger provided nine main hypotheses. \nFirst, he stated that humans have a basic drive to evaluate their opinions and abilities and that people evaluate themselves through objective, nonsocial means (Hypothesis I).\nSecond, Festinger stated that if objective, nonsocial means were not available, that people evaluate their opinions and abilities by comparison to other people (Hypothesis II). \nNext, he hypothesized that the tendency to compare oneself to another person decreases as the difference between their opinions and abilities becomes more divergent. In other words, if someone is much different from you, you are less likely to compare yourself to that person (Hypothesis III). \nHe next hypothesized that there is a unidirectional drive upward in the case of abilities, which is largely absent in opinions. This drive refers to the value that is placed on doing better and better. (Hypothesis IV). \nNext, Festinger hypothesizes that there are non-social restraints that make it difficult or even impossible to change one's ability and these restraints are largely absent for opinions. In other words, people can change their opinions when they want to but no matter how motivated individuals may be to improve their ability, there may be other elements that make this impossible (Hypothesis V). \nFestinger goes on to hypothesize that the cessation of comparison with others is accompanied by hostility or derogation to the extent that continued comparison with those persons implies unpleasant consequences (Hypothesis VI). \nNext, any factors which increase the importance of some particular group as a comparison group from some particular opinion or ability will increase the pressure toward uniformity concerning that ability or opinion within that group. If discrepancies arise between the evaluator and comparison group there is a tendency to reduce the divergence by either attempting to persuade others, or changing their personal views to attain uniformity. However, the importance, relevance and attraction to a comparison group that affects the original motivation for comparison, mediates the pressures towards uniformity (Hypothesis VII). \nHis next hypothesis states that if persons who are very divergent from one's own opinion or ability are perceived as different from oneself on attributes consistent with the divergence, the tendency to narrow the range of comparability becomes stronger (Hypothesis VIII). \nLastly, Festinger hypothesized that when there is a range of opinion or ability in a group, the relative strength of the three manifestations of pressures toward uniformity will be different for those who are close to the mode of the group than for those who are distant from the mode. Those close to the mode will have stronger tendencies to change the positions of others, weaker tendencies to narrow the range of comparison, and even weaker tendencies to change their own opinions (Hypothesis IX).\n\nSince its inception, the initial framework has undergone several advances. Key among these are developments in understanding the motivations that underlie social comparisons, and the particular types of social comparisons that are made. Motives that are relevant to social comparison include self-enhancement, maintenance of a positive self-evaluation, components of attributions and validation, and the avoidance of closure. While there have been changes in Festinger's original concept, many fundamental aspects remain, including the prevalence of the tendency towards social comparison and the general process that is social comparison.\n\nAccording to Thorton and Arrowood, self-evaluation is one of the functions of social comparison. This is one process that underlies how an individual engages in social comparison. Each individual's specific goals will influence how they engage in social comparison. For self-evaluation, people tend to choose a comparison target that is similar to themselves. Specifically, they are most interested in choosing a target who shares some distinctive characteristic with themselves. Research suggests that most people believe that choosing a similar target helps ensure the accuracy of the self-evaluation. However, individuals do not always act as unbiased self-evaluators, and accurate self-evaluations may not be the primary goal of social comparison.\n\nIndividuals may also seek self-enhancement, or to improve their self-esteem. They may interpret, distort, or ignore the information gained by social comparison to see themselves more positively and further their self-enhancement goals. They will also choose to make upward (comparing themselves to someone better off) or downward (comparing themselves to someone worse off) comparisons, depending on which strategy will further their self-enhancement goals. They may also avoid making comparisons period, or avoid making certain types of comparisons. Specifically, when an individual believes that their ability in a specific area is low, they will avoid making upward social comparisons in that area. Unlike for self-evaluation goals, people engaging in social comparison with the goal of self-enhancement may not seek out a target that is similar to themselves. In fact, if a target's similarity is seen as a threat, due to the target outperforming the individual on some dimension, the individual may downplay the similarity of the target to themselves. This notion ties closely to the phenomena in psychology introduced also by Leon Festinger himself as it relates to the diminishing of cognitive dissonance. One does not want to perceive oneself in a way which would downplay one's original belief upon which one's self-esteem is based and therefore in order to reduce the cognitive dissonance, one is willing to change the cognitive representation of the other person whom one compares oneself to, such that one's own belief about oneself remains intact. This effectively leads to the comparison of apples to oranges or psychological denial.\n\nLater advances in theory led to self-enhancement being one of the four self-evaluation motives:, along with \"self-assessment\", \"self-verification\", and \"self-improvement\".\n\nWills introduced the concept of downward comparison in 1981. Downward social comparison is a defensive tendency that is used as a means of self-evaluation. When a person looks to another individual or group that they consider to be worse off than themselves in order to feel better about their self or personal situation, they are making a downward social comparison. Research has suggested that social comparisons with others who are better off or superior, or upward comparisons, can lower self-regard, whereas downward comparisons can elevate self-regard. Downward comparison theory emphasizes the positive effects of comparisons in increasing one's subjective well-being. For example, it has been found that breast cancer patients made the majority of comparisons with patients less fortunate than themselves.\n\nAlthough social comparison research has suggested that upward comparisons can lower self-regard, Collins indicates that this is not always the case. Individuals make upward comparisons, whether consciously or subconsciously, when they compare themselves with an individual or comparison group that they perceive as superior or better than themselves in order to improve their views of self or to create a more positive perception of their personal reality. Upward social comparisons are made to self-evaluate and self-improve in the hopes that self-enhancement will also occur. In an upward social comparison, people want to believe themselves to be part of the elite or superior, and make comparisons highlighting the similarities between themselves and the comparison group, unlike a downward social comparison, where similarities between individuals or groups are disassociated.\n\nIt has also been suggested that upward comparisons may provide an inspiration to improve, and in one study it was found that while breast cancer patients made more downward comparisons, they showed a preference for information about more fortunate others.\n\nAnother study indicated that people who were dieting often used upward social comparisons by posting pictures of thinner people on their refrigerators. These pictures served as not only a reminder of an individuals current weight, but also as an inspiration of a goal to be reached. In simple terms, downward social comparisons are more likely to make us feel better about ourselves, while upward social comparisons are more likely to motivate us to achieve more or reach higher.\n\nAspinwall and Taylor looked at mood, self-esteem, and threat as moderators that drive individuals to choose to make upward or downward social comparisons. Downward comparisons in cases where individuals had experienced a threat to their self-esteem produced more favorable self-evaluations.\n\nAspinwall and Taylor found that upward social comparisons were good in circumstances where the individuals making the comparisons had high self-esteem, because these types of comparisons provided them with more motivation and hope than downward social comparisons. However, if these individuals had experienced a recent threat or setback to their self-esteem, they reported that upward comparisons resulted in a more negative affect than downward comparisons.\n\nHowever, people with low self-esteem or people who are experiencing some sort of threat in their life (such as doing poorly in school, or suffering from an illness) tend to favor downward comparisons over upward comparisons. People with low self-esteem and negative affect improve their mood by making downward comparisons. Their mood does not improve as much as it would if they had high self-esteem. Even for people with low self-esteem, these downward social comparisons do improve their negative mood and allow them to feel hope and motivation for their future.\n\nIndividuals who have a negative mood improve their mood by making upward social comparisons, regardless of their level of self-esteem. In addition, both individuals with high self-esteem and low self-esteem who are in a positive mood elevate their mood further by making upward comparisons. However, for those who have recently experienced a threat to their self-esteem or a setback in their life, making upward social comparisons instead of downward social comparisons results in a more negative affect. Self-esteem and existence of a threat or setback in an individual's life are two moderators of their response to upward or downward comparisons.\n\nBecause individuals are driven upwards in the case of abilities, social comparisons can drive competition among peers. In this regard, the psychological significance of a comparison depends on the social status of an individual, and the context in which their abilities are being evaluated.\n\nCompetitiveness resulting from social comparisons may be greater in relation to higher social status because individuals with more status have more to lose. In one study, students in a classroom were presented with a bonus point program where, based on chance, the grades for some students would increase and the grades for others would remain the same. Despite the fact that students could not lose by this program, higher-status individuals were more likely to object to the program, and more likely to report a perceived distributive injustice. It was suggested that this was a cognitive manifestation of an aversion to downward mobility, which has more psychological significance when an individual has more status.\n\nWhen individuals are evaluated where meaningful standards exist, such as in an academic classroom where students are ranked, then competitiveness increases as proximity to a standard of performance increases. When the only meaningful standard is the top, then high-ranking individuals are most competitive with their peers, and individuals at low and intermediate ranks are equally competitive. However, when both high and low rankings hold significance, then individuals at high and low ranks are equally competitive, and are both more competitive than individuals at intermediate ranks.\n\nSeveral models have been introduced to social comparison, including the self-evaluation maintenance model (SEM), proxy model, the triadic model and the three-selves model.\n\nThe SEM model proposes that we make comparisons to maintain or enhance our self-evaluations, focusing on the antagonistic processes of comparison and reflection.\nAbraham Tesser has conducted research on self-evaluation dynamics that has taken several forms. A self-evaluation maintenance (SEM) model of social behavior focuses on the consequences of another person's outstanding performance on one's own self-evaluation. It sketches out some conditions under which the other's good performance bolsters self-evaluation, i.e., \"basking in reflected glory\", and conditions under which it threatens self-evaluation through a comparison process.\n\nThe proxy model anticipates the success of something that is unfamiliar. The model proposes that if a person is successful or familiar with a task, then he or she would also be successful at a new similar task. The proxy is evaluated based on ability and is concerned with the question \"Can I do X?\" A proxy's comparison is based previous attributes. The opinion of the comparer and whether the proxy exerted maximum effort on a preliminary task are variables influencing his or her opinion.\n\nThe Triadic Model builds on the attribution elements of social comparison, proposing that opinions of social comparison are best considered in terms of 3 different evaluative questions: preference assessment (i.e., \"Do I like X?\"), belief assessment (i.e., \"Is X correct?\"), and preference prediction (i.e., \"Will I like X?\"). In the Triadic Model the most meaningful comparisons are with a person who has already experienced a proxy and exhibits consistency in related attributes or past preferences.\n\nThe three-selves model proposes that social comparison theory is a combination of two different theories. One theory is developed around motivation and the factors that influence the type of social comparison information people seek from their environment and the second is about self-evaluation and the factors that influence the effects of social comparisons on the judgments of self. While there has been much research in the area of comparison motives, there has been little in the area of comparative evaluation. Explaining that the self is conceived as interrelated conceptions accessible depending upon current judgment context and taking a cue from Social Cognitive Theory, this model examines the Assimilation effect and distinguishes three classes of working Self-concept ideas: individual selves, possible selves and collective selves.\n\nThe media has been found to play a large role in social comparisons. Researchers examining the social effects of the media have used social comparison theory have found that in most cases women tend to engage in upward social comparisons with a target other, which results in more negative feelings about the self. The majority of women have a daily opportunity to make upward comparison by measuring themselves against some form of societal ideal. Social comparisons have become a relevant mechanism for learning about the appearance-related social expectations among peers and for evaluating the self in terms of those standards\" (Jones, 2001, P. 647).\n\nAlthough men do make upward comparisons, research finds that more women make upward comparisons and are comparing themselves with unrealistically high standards presented in the media. As women are shown more mainstream media images of powerful, successful and thin women, they perceive the \"ideal\" to be the norm for societal views of attractive. In recent years, social media platforms such as Facebook and Instagram have made this more widespread, since social media makes it easier to compare yourself to the \"ideal\". Some women have reported making upward comparisons in a positive manner for the purposes of self-motivation, but the majority of upward comparisons are made when the individual is feeling lesser and therefore evoke a negative connotation.\n\nSelf-perceived similarities with role models on social media can also affect self-esteem for both men and women. Having more self-perceived similarities with a role model can help increase self-esteem, while having less can decrease self-esteem.Social comparison with peers on social media can also lead to feelings of self-pity or satisfaction. The desire for social comparison can cause FoMO and compulsive checking of social media sites. \n\nMany criticisms arose regarding Festinger's similarity hypothesis. Deutsch and Krauss argued that people actually seek out dissimilar others in their comparisons maintaining that this is important for providing valuable self-knowledge, as demonstrated in research. Ambiguity also circulated about the important dimensions for similarity. Goethals and Darley clarified the role of similarity suggesting that people prefer to compare those who are similar on related attributes such as opinions, characteristics or abilities to increase confidence for value judgments, however those dissimilar in related attributes are preferred when validating one's beliefs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34095169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34095169", "title": "St. Matthew (Michelangelo)", "text": "St. Matthew (Michelangelo)\n\nSt. Matthew is a marble sculpture by Michelangelo, dating to 1506 and now held in the Galleria dell'Accademia in Florence.\n\n"}
{"id": "2882795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2882795", "title": "Suomalainen Kirjakauppa", "text": "Suomalainen Kirjakauppa\n\nSuomalainen Kirjakauppa (meaning 'Finnish bookshop') is the largest bookshop chain in Finland, with its flagship branch in Helsinki being Finland's largest bookshop. It was founded in 1912 and expanded to become Finland's largest bookshop chain in the 1990s. In May 2017 it consists of 55 shops selling books, office supplies and art materials. It is owned by Otava Group.\n\n"}
{"id": "5252188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5252188", "title": "Talisman (Alpha Flight)", "text": "Talisman (Alpha Flight)\n\nTalisman (Elizabeth Twoyoungmen) is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.\n\nShe first appeared as Elizabeth Twoyoungmen in \"Alpha Flight\" vol. 1 #5. The character was created by John Byrne.\n\nElizabeth Twoyoungmen was born in Calgary, Alberta, Canada, the daughter of Michael Twoyoungmen (who would later be the superhero Shaman of the Canadian superhero team Alpha Flight). She became estranged from her father at the age of four following the death of her mother Kathryn following an illness. Michael, a physician, had promised to save her and his failure led Elizabeth to be bitter and resentful toward him.\n\nAs a college archaeology student, Elizabeth was excavating the site of the original Fort Calgary when she discovered a skull. When she touched it an apparition appeared that only she could see. Frightened, she sought out her father, whom she recognized as Shaman despite a spell he had cast to prevent himself from being so recognized. Together they investigated the skull, determining that it was the source of ancient anger or ancient evil.\n\nMeanwhile, a young woman named Emily Stang was tending to her great-grandfather, Lucas Stang, when she was attacked by a mystical force manifesting itself through scrambled eggs (eggs being both a symbol of new life and a symbol of potential life unfulfilled). Shaman and Elizabeth traveled to the site of the manifestation and Shaman seemingly defeated it. However, the force again manifested itself, this time through Lucas, and possessed Emily. As the possessed Emily attacked Elizabeth, Shaman identified it as Ranaq the Devourer, one of the Great Beasts of the North. Under Ranaq's barrage, Elizabeth found herself growing stronger until she was able instinctively to turn the force of Ranaq's attack back against it. Shaman launched an attack on Ranaq as well and together they drove the beast out of Emily, saving her life. Shortly thereafter, Elizabeth reached into Shaman's mystical medicine pouch at his bidding and withdrew a coronet (later identified as the \"Coronet of Enchantment\"). Placing it on her brow, she was transformed into Talisman, with the power to manipulate vast magical energies and command the spirits of nature to do her will. She then became a member of Alpha Flight. She was horrified to later learn that she was unable to remove the Coronet without enduring unbearable, agonizing pain.\n\nAlongside Alpha Flight, she later fought the rest of the Great Beasts. She was captured by the original Omega Flight, and became trapped in the void within Shaman's mystic pouch. She was rescued by the Beyonder, but then quit Alpha Flight. Her natural arrogance magnified by her newfound powers as well as the Coronet of Enchantment's influence, and with her bitterness toward her father rekindled both by his failure to tell her about the Coronet and his failure to save her from being consumed by the Void within his medicine pouch, Talisman became corrupted by her powers. She took the impending birth of fellow Alphan Snowbird's first child as her opportunity for revenge on him. She commanded the spirits to lead Shaman to a place of power required for the birth that was also a place of death, intending to let the malevolent spirit trapped there to defeat her father before saving the day herself. However, the spirit trapped there had never truly died and so was beyond her power to bind. Possessing Snowbird's baby and calling himself Pestilence, the malevolent entity attacked Alpha Flight and tore the Coronet from Talisman's brow, thus restoring Elizabeth's humanity. However, in the continuing battle, Shaman donned the Coronet, claiming the name and powers of Talisman, and forced Pestilence to flee.\n\nSeveral months later, Elizabeth was sent a dream by Snowbird about the Dreamqueen. Elizabeth learned that she still had her powers. She then regained the Coronet from Shaman and her power as Talisman, and aided Alpha Flight during a confrontation with the Dreamqueen. She then first fought Llan the Sorcerer. With Alpha Flight, she fought the illusory \"super heroes\" on the Dreamqueen's world. She exorcised a demon serving Llan from a child. She brought together Aurora, Purple Girl, Laura Dean, and Goblyn to find Northstar. Talisman's spirit traveled back in time to learn about her incarnation as Nahita of the Tribe of the Moon, and her first defeat of Llan. She then defeated Llan with the aid of Doctor Strange and Alpha and Gamma Flights. Some time later, Elizabeth was attacked and injured by the second Omega Flight, and forced to release the Ska'r. She directed Gamma Flight in defeating the Ska'r, and joined the new Beta Flight.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Civil War of American superheroes, some of their enemies fled north to Canada. To combat this threat, Sasquatch began recruiting for a new team to protect the borders. While initially refusing to join this new Omega Flight, Talisman is spurred into action by Sasquatch's capture, returning to Ottawa to meet up with the rest of the team. After angrily accusing Iron Man of bringing the supervillain crisis about through the bitter conflict of the Superhuman Civil War, Elizabeth is horrified to learn that Michael Pointer, the man who killed Alpha Flight, has been selected as the new Guardian. Angry that a murderer and an American is wearing a Canada-inspired costume, Talisman refuses to have anything to do with the former thrall of the Collective and leaves him behind as the rest of the team goes to Toronto to fight the Wrecking Crew. Aiding the team in their battle against the Great Beasts-empowered Crew and their Surtur demon allies, Elizabeth hesitates when confronted by a Tanaraq-possessed Sasquatch, but is saved by Guardian's timely arrival. Finally seeing that he was truly remorseful for the indirect role he played in the destruction of Alpha Flight and his outright refusal to kill Sasquatch when he was possessed, Elizabeth finally forgives Michael. Also during the series Talisman is shown wearing Shaman's medicine bag, which she likely inherited after her father's death at the hands of the Collective.\n\nShe re-appeared in \"She-Hulk\" vol. 2 #16 (2007) when she tried to bypass a S.H.I.E.L.D. unit, as she had a cure that could end an attacking Wendigo's rampage. However it took a while to get past security and before Talisman could do anything, the She-Hulk and Wolverine had already taken him down.\n\nOver time, Elizabeth and her old teammate and mentor, Puck, became lovers.\n\nTalisman possesses vast supernatural powers as a result of her descent from forty generations of Sacree shamans, and was once described as \"a mortal channel through which the gods can fight\", as well as \"a director of forces, not a combatant\". Her father, Shaman, has stated that her powers when properly developed would rival even that of the Sorcerer Supreme, Doctor Strange. Primary among her powers is the ability to command the Spirits of the Land to do her bidding, meaning she is literally part of the Spirit World itself. While Shaman could only implore the Spirits for help, Talisman can command them outright. She has the ability to tap into mystical forces and to manipulate them for a variety of effects, including levitation, astral projection, exorcism, matter manipulation, the ability to see prophetic visions, telepathy, teleportation over vast distances, opening inter-dimensional portals, animating the undead, generating wind blasts and lightning, summoning air spirits, calling forth spirit animals, creating magical shields of light, and generating blasts of magical energy. She also has the ability to perceive various mystical phenomena. She possesses considerable knowledge of the mystic arts of the Sacree.\n\nMost of Talisman's powers stem from the ancient Coronet of Enchantment, which she wears on her forehead. However, even without the Coronet, she has shown to possess the ability to absorb and redirect magical energy used against her, but the Coronet greatly amplifies her powers. Talisman cannot remove the Coronet without it causing her severe mental pain (and it took a great effort from others to remove it). However, if someone else wears it, returning the Coronet to the true owner would spare them the pain. When out of costume, Talisman can use an illusion to hide the presence of the Coronet. Talisman stated in \"Omega Flight #5\" that she \"no longer has the blessings she once had\", making her level of power unclear.\n\nFollowing the death of her father Talisman, now in addition to her powers she possesses also Shaman's medicine bag, which contains a pocket dimension known as the Void. She can summon all manner of mystical objects and potions from the bag.\n\nNahita / Talisman was a previous wearer of the Coronet of Enchantment and a member of the Tribe of the Moon.\n\nAfter Elizabeth Twoyoungmen was initially corrupted by her power, Shaman temporarily seized the Coronet of Enchantment, assuming the name and powers of Talisman.\n\n"}
{"id": "7905269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7905269", "title": "The Archaeological Conservancy", "text": "The Archaeological Conservancy\n\nThe Archaeological Conservancy is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization that acquires and preserves archaeological sites in the United States. Whereas nearly every other nation protects all archaeological sites within its borders as part of its national patrimony, in the United States archaeological resources on private land are the private property of the landowner. As a result, archaeological sites in the United States are subject to destruction by urban development and sprawl, mechanized agricultural and land-leveling, and commercial looting to fuel the antiquities trade. By the 1970s the extent of archaeological site loss was increasing recognized as a crisis for the scientific study of the nation's past.\n\nThe Conservancy was established in 1979 by Mark Michel, who continues to serve as its president; California businessman Jay Last; and archaeologist Steven A. LeBlanc using $300,000 in start-up funds from the Rockefeller Brothers Foundation and the Ford Foundation. The organization received a boost in stature and fund-raising ability in 1982 when former Secretary of the Interior Stewart Udall joined its board of directors, where he served until his death in 2010.\n\nThe organization is headquartered in Albuquerque, New Mexico, but also operates regional offices in Mississippi, Maryland, Ohio, and California. In 2010 it reported a membership of about 23,000.\n\nThe Archaeological Conservancy uses states' private property laws to protect archaeological sites. Typically it buys the land encompassing the sites, stabilizes the site to protect against erosion and other natural degradation, and prepares a management plan to guide the use of the property as an archaeological research preserve. The organization works closely with amateur and professional archaeologists, particularly State Historic Preservation Offices to identify sites worthy of acquisition. Funding for the organization comes from membership dues, individual contributions, corporations and foundations.\n\nThe Archaeological Conservancy has preserved portions of two World Heritage Sites. Andrews Ranch Ruin and Candelaria Pueblo are outliers of Chaco Canyon, New Mexico. The former was transferred to the Bureau of Land Management, and the latter has been incorporated into El Malpais National Monument. The Archaeological Conservancy owns three parcels at Cahokia Mounds, Illinois. The Fingerhut tract is an area of Cahokia that may have included the workshop for basalt figurine production. The Powell tract contains the remnants of the Powell Mound, the marker mound for the western boundary of the site, and Cahokia Mound 1 may have been the marker mound for the eastern boundary. In addition The Archaeological Conservancy acquired then transferred to Hopewell Culture National Historical Park major portions of the Hopewell Mound Group and the High Bank Earthworks, which along with other Hopewell Ceremonial Earthworks are on the World Heritage Conventions tentative list.\n\nThe Archaeological Conservancy has preserved seven National Historic Landmarks. The ruins of Mission Los Santos Ángeles de Guevavi, and 18th-century Spanish Mission in southern Arizona, were transferred to the National Park Service and incorporated into Tumacácori National Historical Park. The Lamoka Lake site, New York provided the evidence establishing the existence of a pre-agricultural culture in the Northeastern United States. The Silver Mound Archaeological District, Wisconsin preserves the remains of a complex of quarry pits and associated lithic workshops where Native Americans mined Hixton Orthoquartzite over several millennia. The New Philadelphia Town Site is the original site of the first town in the United States platted and registered by an African-American. The Jaketown Site in Mississippi, preserves a mound and village center associated with the Poverty Point culture. Watson Brake, Louisiana, has provided the earliest evidence of mound-building in the prehistoric United States. The Archaeological Conservancy transferred its portion of the site to the state of Louisiana.\n\nThe Archaeological Conservancy acquired the Royal Blockhouse site in 2011. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2012.\n\nIn 1997 The Archaeological Conservancy began publication of \"American Archaeology\", described as \"the only popular magazine devoted to presenting the rich diversity of archaeology in the Americas\". \"American Archaeology\" received a Folio \"Ozzie\" bronze award for excellence in magazine design in 2008 and a Silver award in the Magazines and Bookseller’s Annual Magazine Cover Contest in 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "35936197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35936197", "title": "The Grange, Monmouth", "text": "The Grange, Monmouth\n\nThe Grange consists of three attached, grade II listed buildings in Monmouth, Monmouthshire, Wales. It is in the historic St James Street neighbourhood, within the medieval town walls. The Grange was originally built by Captain Charles Philipps at the site of a former farm house. It was the residence of the Kane family and, later, the Windsor family. The buildings also served as a preparatory school, one of the schools of the Haberdashers' Company, until 2009. In 2011, the buildings were converted into a boarding house for students of Monmouth School, another Haberdashers' Company school.\n\nDuring the eighteenth century, much of the north side of St James Street in Monmouth was devoted to a farm house, barn, stable, buildings for oxen, and an enclosure for sheep or cattle. The Grange is located at the site of the former farm house, and was constructed by Captain Charles Philipps. After having lived at Monnow Street in the mid nineteenth century, the Kane family lived at The Grange on St James Street for at least fifty years. At the time of the 1861 and 1871 census enumerations, John Joseph Kane, Esquire, a native of Lincoln, Lincolnshire, England, resided at The Grange with his wife Sarah Ann, adult children, and servants. Kane continued to live there in 1875, and died the following year on 1 October 1876. In 1881, his widow Sarah Ann, a native of Monmouth, lived there with her two spinster daughters. Sisters Sarah Ann and Ellen Kane, both born in Monmouth, resided there in 1891, 1901, and 1911. At the time of those census enumerations, the address of The Grange was recorded as 14 St James Street, and in 1911 the main house had sixteen rooms. In 1923 and 1934, Frederick Reuben Windsor, an electrical engineer, resided at The Grange. A native of Bushey, Hertfordshire, England, Windsor lived there until his death on 25 February 1955. \n\nThe Grange at 12–16 St James Street now consists of three connected buildings on the northwest side of the street, as well as an extension at the back of the property. Located within the medieval town walls built around 1300, all three houses are Grade II listed. The three-storey, five-bay main house is currently recorded at 12 St James Street and has railings in front of the street elevation. The listed building has a slate roof and an eighteenth or early nineteenth-century facade with band courses and quoins. The entrance features a pedimented porch with Doric columns and a transom (fanlight). The entablature of the pedimented porch has a frieze with a metope in the style of the Brothers Adam. The pediment has a firemark, a plaque noting that the building owner had given financially to the town fire department. The red brick building next to The Grange at 10 St James Street was once its stable.\n\nThe Grange, the buildings on St James Street, should be distinguished from The Grange, the preparatory school of the Haberdashers' Company, also known as the Worshipful Company of Haberdashers. While the buildings on St James Street housed the prep school for boys ages seven to eleven for decades, in February 2009 the school moved across the River Wye into new quarters on Hadnock Road, east of the town centre. The site chosen for the new preparatory school is in close proximity to Monmouth School's Sports Complex. The new building was designed by the architectural team of Buttress Fuller Alsop Williams. In addition to classroom space, the new Grange includes a garden, kitchen, ICT suite, science laboratory, and art and music facilities. Pupils at The Grange use the Monmouth School's chapel and sports facilities. While students and staff had already started using the new school building on Hadnock Road in February 2009, it wasn't officially dedicated until 23 September 2009. On that day, the new building was formally opened as The Grange, Monmouth Preparatory School, retaining the name of the school's former quarters. HRH Prince Edward, Earl of Wessex, officiated at the September opening ceremonies. After arriving by helicopter, Prince Edward was greeted by the heads of Monmouth School and The Grange, and introduced to town officials. The ceremony included comments from the prince and Elaine Thomas, Head of The Grange. Prince Edward unveiled the commemorative plaque for the new Grange. His visit that day was his third to the Haberdashers' Monmouth Schools since having become a Haberdasher himself. Before the recent move to Hadnock Road, children from the St James Street school distinguished themselves in chess, winning Britain's 2003 national title as under-11 chess champions.\n\nOn 19 August 2010, the Monmouthshire County Council released details of an application to redevelop the former prep school at St James Street as a sixth form boarding facility for older students at Monmouth School. Housing for staff members was planned as well. The application indicated that there were three Grade II listed, connected buildings, as well as an extension that had been added at a later date. The plan was to include a new addition that would be attached to the extant extension at the back of the property. On 13 and 14 December 2010, it was announced that permission for the conversion of The Grange from a prep school to a boarding house had been granted. The alteration of The Grange is a component of the first phase of The Heart Project, a substantial renovation of Monmouth School which has recently been undertaken. The new boarding house opened in September 2011 for students in their last year, with Kingsley Jones as housemaster of the new boarding accommodation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16337366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16337366", "title": "The Mystery of the Whispering Mummy", "text": "The Mystery of the Whispering Mummy\n\nThe Mystery of the Whispering Mummy is the third book in The Three Investigators series by Robert Arthur, Jr.. It was originally published in the United States by Random House in 1965. Library of Congress catalog number 99192344 .\n\nThe boys receive a letter from Alfred Hitchcock requesting they visit a friend of his, Professor Yarborough, who has a mummy along with other artifacts in his house. The mummy has been whispering in a strange language, but only when Yarborough is alone in the room. They also receive a letter from a Mrs Banfry in Santa Monica, whose distinctive cat has gone missing.\n\nThey meet with the Professor and his butler, Wilkins, who is convinced the whispering is an ancient curse. They also approach Yarborough's neighbor, Professor Freeman, for help on the language. Jupiter gets the mummy to whisper to him while disguised as the professor. Pete tackles a boy hiding in the grounds of the house, and later befriends him. The boy is named Hamid and believes the mummy is one of his ancestors. Pete and Hamid hide in the mummy's case when thieves steal it and take it to a warehouse. They escape, but can't find their way back until they get a lead from placing a series of telephone calls to friends, who then call their friends and so on. Jupiter calls this a Ghost to Ghost Hookup.\n\nThe boys learn that the mummy and missing cat cases are connected, and when Jupiter happens upon the warehouse and the thieves, he must hide in the mummy case to avoid being caught. The case is taken to a familiar location and Bob and Pete quickly arrive on the scene and the villain is caught.\n"}
{"id": "17543518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17543518", "title": "Vitreography", "text": "Vitreography\n\nVitreography is a fine art printmaking technique that uses a float glass matrix instead of the traditional matrices of metal, wood or stone. A print created using the technique is called a vitreograph. Unlike a monotype, in which ink is painted onto a smooth glass plate and transferred to paper to produce a unique work, the vitreograph technique involves fixing the imagery in, or on, the glass plate. This allows the production of an edition of prints.\n\nIn addition to being relatively inexpensive, glass is chemically inert. It does not oxidize, nor does it change or interact with the composition of printing inks, especially yellows and whites, which can turn green or gray in contact with metal plates. According to Claire Van Vliet of Janus Press, intaglio vitreographs also have an advantage over metal in that the glass plate wipes cleanly in non-image areas, allowing bright white to coincide with “black that is velvety as a mezzotint” in the finished print.\n\nAnother advantage of vitreograph printmaking is its ability to withstand the pressure of the printing press with no discernible breakdown of the imagery, even after numerous runs. Printmaker Ken Kerslake wrote, “The glass plate will last indefinitely because, unlike [one of] copper or zinc, it will always return to its original configuration no matter how much pressure is applied.” A disadvantage to this is that unwanted lines or marks on the glass plate cannot be burnished out, as they can on a zinc or copper plate. \n\nThe transparency of the glass plate can be used to advantage, in that the plate may be placed over a preliminary drawing on paper to guide the artist in creating a drawing on the plate. This is done by placing the drawing face down on a light table (to allow for the reversal of the image in printing) and placing the vitreograph plate on top of it.\nAlthough glass is unaffected by compression in the printing press, it will break under tension. For that reason, vitreographs are always printed on an etching press, whose rigid bed will support the glass plate firmly. In addition, the press bed must be level and working conditions in the print shop immaculate. A particle of grit or dirt between press bed and the plate will create a tension point that will cause the glass to crack when pressure is applied.\n\nAmerican glass artist Harvey Littleton was a tenured professor of art at the University of Wisconsin in Madison when, in June 1974, he taught a workshop in cold-working techniques for glass artists. To cold-work glass is to shape or sculpt cold (as opposed to hot or molten) glass, or to produce texture or decoration on its surface. Cold-working is done by carving, grinding or engraving glass with various tools, or by selectively blasting it with abrasives. As a result of experimenting with various resists for sandblasting, Littleton became intrigued by the possibility of printmaking from glass. He asked his colleague at the University of Wisconsin, printmaker Warrington Colescott, to ink five of the sandblasted plates from the workshop and print them onto paper in his etching press. The first plate broke under pressure, but after making some adjustments to the press, the rest of the glass plates printed “like dreamboats,” Colescott said. Editions printed from the plates looked promising, and Littleton was awarded a research grant from the University of Wisconsin to continue the development of printing from glass.\n\nIn 1976 Littleton retired from teaching and moved to Spruce Pine, North Carolina, where he set up a glass studio, reserving space for an etching press on which he continued to make vitreograph prints. A few years later, at the end of 1981, he hired a woodcut artist, Sandy Willcox, to work as a part-time printer. He encouraged her and his colleagues in glass art, including Ken Carder, Billy Bernstein, Erwin Eisch and Ann Wolff (formerly Wärff), to try their hands at vitreography. \n\nIn 1982 Littleton invited curator Jane Kessler of the Mint Museum in Charlotte, North Carolina to see the prints that were being created at Littleton Studios. Kessler was impressed by the new technique, and recommended that experienced painters and printmakers be invited to the studio to explore the medium. A grant awarded by the National Endowment for the Arts made it possible for three painters, Walter Darby Bannard, Ed Blackburn and Hollis Sigler to collaborate with two master printers, Paul Maguire of Flatrock Press and June Lambla, who had apprenticed at Crown Point Press, in the creation of prints at Littleton Studios. By this time Littleton had constructed a fully equipped printmaking studio that was separate from his glassblowing shop. Sigler visited Littleton Studios in 1985 and produced five prints; Blackburn produced five prints in 1986 and Bannard created seven prints in 1987. The project led to an exhibition at the Mint Museum in 1987 that included a catalog detailing these and other artists’ research in glass plate printmaking. Littleton continued to invite painters, printmakers, potters and glass artists to the studio to fully develop the possibilities of vitreography. Littleton Studios has published vitreograph print editions by 110 artists.\n\nVitreography was initially conceived of as an intaglio process, in which line and tone are carved, engraved or etched into the glass plate’s surface. Printing an intaglio plate involves forcing ink into the grooves and pits, and then wiping the plate’s surface with tarlatan to remove excess ink. The image is transferred to dampened paper under pressure in an etching press. \nColor intaglio prints are achieved by processing separate plates, each carrying one or more colors in proportion to the effect desired in the print. The plates are printed in succession onto paper, each carrying color and imagery that, in register with the others, combine to form the finished print.\n\nTools used to make marks in the glass include diamond point scribers, a flexible shaft power tool with a diamond bit and a sandblaster. Littleton Studios printer Sandy Willcox and her husband David Lewis, a painter, are credited with discovering that white lithograph ink is a versatile resist for sandblasting intaglio glass plates. They found that the viscous white ink, applied to the plate freely with a brush or evenly with a roller, can be drawn into by removing ink with wooden styluses, needles, or paintbrushes. When the drawing is complete, the plate is taken to the sandblasting booth wet. There, the initial onslaught of sand sticks to those areas of the image where ink remains (forming an even more resistant barrier) while etching those parts of the glass revealed by the hand of the artist. After the plate is cleaned of ink, the parts of the plate that received the blast can be seen to have minute pits that hold ink; the areas that were protected by the white litho ink remain smooth and are wiped clean before printing. Contact paper and tape are also used on the plates as a sandblasting resist; those materials create imagery with a hard-edged, stencil effect. Diluted hydrofluoric acid can be brushed onto the plate to create areas of very delicate tone. \n\nA second method of creating imagery on the vitreograph plate is waterless lithography (sometimes called “siligraphy”). The process was originally developed by 3M Company for commercial printing in the late 1960s; it was purchased and subsequently refined by Toray Industries of Japan. The commercial process is a type of offset printing that uses photo-sensitized silicone rubber plates. The waterless lithography process employed in fine art printmaking has been credited to Nik Semenoff, who developed it for use on metal plates.\nDonald Furst demonstrated his adaptation of the silicone method to glass plate printmaking in June, 1995, and the Littleton Studios adopted his process for their work with glass plate lithography. The image is drawn onto a ground glass matrix with water-soluble art materials, over which is applied a film of common caulking silicone thinned with synthetic turpentine. Master printer Mark Mahaffey has found that frosted Mylar can be used as a printing matrix as well as 3/8” float glass to create a vitreograph using waterless lithography. \nAfter the silicone layer cures, the original drawing is gently washed from the plate with water, dried, and inked with a roller. The silicone layer protects the non-printing areas of the image while allowing open areas (those free of silicone) to accept ink. Like intaglio vitreographs, waterless lithographs on glass plates are transferred to paper in an etching press.\n\nIn 1998 Littleton invited three artists, Bonnie Pierce Lhotka, Karin Schminke and Dorothy Simpson Krause (collectively known as the Digital Atelier), to investigate combining digital imagery with vitreography processes. The artists printed digital images onto clear transfer film using a large format inkjet printer, transferring them to paper in the etching press, along with glass plate imagery processed in the intaglio and/or siligraph techniques.\n\nSince 1981 over 100 artists have worked in collaboration with Littleton Studios to publish vitreograph prints. They include Harvey Littleton's colleagues in glass art, Dale Chihuly, Erwin Eisch, Shane Fero, Stanislav Libenský, Paul Stankard, Therman Statom, Sybren Valkema and Ann Wolff. Littleton also invited painters, sculptors and printmakers to Littleton Studios to explore the possibilities and limitations of vitreography. Painters Walter Darby Bannard, Louisa Chase, Herb Jackson, Mildred Thompson, Emilio Vedova and John Wilde; potters Cynthia Bringle and John Glick, sculptors Sergei Isupov and Italo Scanga and printmakers Glen Alps, Ken Kerslake, Karen Kunc, Judith O’Rourke and Dan Welden are a few of the artists whose work has been published by the studio.\n\nThe first public exhibition of Littleton’s own intaglio prints from glass plates was at the Brooks Memorial Art Museum in Memphis, Tennessee in 1975. There the prints were shown along with Littleton’s glass sculptures. The same was the case with Ann Wolff’s glass plate intaglios, which were included in a show of her glass artworks, drawings and copper plate intaglios in 1986 at Holsten Galleries in Palm Beach. \n\nThe first group exhibition of the prints to include works by painters and printmakers, as well as glass artists, was at Western Carolina University in Cullowhee, North Carolina in 1986. Seventeen artists were represented in the exhibition, all of whom had created their prints at Littleton Studios. \n\nThe Mint Museum mounted another group exhibition in 1987 titled Luminous Impressions: Prints from Glass Plates. It featured vitreographs by nineteen artists and included prints by glass artist Dale Chihuly and California printmaker Connor Everts. Everts is credited with coining the term “vitreography” to describe printmaking from glass plates. Another early group exhibition took place in 1988 at the Kunstsammlungen der Veste Coburg in Coburg, Germany. Titled \"Prints from Glass Plates - Vitreographs,\" the show featured works by Americans and two Germans: Erwin Eisch and Ann Wolff. \n\nOther notable group exhibitions include \"Vitreographs: Collaborative Works from the Littleton Studio\" which was exhibited at The Hunter Museum of American Art in Chattanooga, Tennessee and The University Gallery at The University of Florida at Gainesville (both in 1993); “Vitreographs” at The Portland Art Museum in Portland, Oregon in 1997 and “Vitreographs: Collaborative Works from Littleton Studio” at the Center for the Arts in Vero Beach, Florida in 1998.\n\nRecent group exhibitions include \"Reflections on a Legacy: Vitreographs from Littleton Studios\" at Appalachian State University in Boone, North Carolina (2006) and \"Harvey K. Littleton + Friends: A Legacy of Transforming Object, Image & Idea,\" at Western Carolina University in Cullowhee, North Carolina (2006–07). The latter was an exhibition of the work of 75 artworks by seventeen artists, and included vitreographs alongside works in glass, clay, ceramic, painting and book art. Curator Martin DeWitt wrote in the catalog accompanying the exhibition that “Not only is Littleton credited to be the father of the contemporary studio glass movement in the United States…he is also inventor and progenitor of the versatile and unique vitreographic printmaking process.” \n\nVitreograph prints can be found in collections in the United States, including the Achenbach Foundation for Graphic Art, San Francisco; Burroughs Chapin Art Museum, Myrtle Beach, South Carolina; Cincinnati Art Museum, Cincinnati, Ohio; The Corning Museum of Glass, Corning, New York; Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida; Milwaukee Art Museum, Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Museum of Fine Arts, New Britain Museum of American Art, New Britain Connecticut which holds an archive of over 500 vitreographs, St. Petersburg, Florida; Portland Art Museum, Portland, Oregon; Sherwin Miller Museum of Jewish Art, Tulsa, Oklahoma; Smithsonian American Art Museum, Washington, DC; Tweed Museum of Art, Duluth, Minnesota and the Vero Beach Museum of Art, Vero Beach, Florida. The Fine Art Museum of Western Carolina University holds an archive of 723 vitreograph editions published at Littleton Studios.\n"}
{"id": "1064692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1064692", "title": "Vulca", "text": "Vulca\n\nVulca was an Etruscan artist from the town of Veii. The only Etruscan artist mentioned by ancient writers, he worked for the last of the Roman kings, Tarquinius Superbus. He is responsible for creating a terracotta statue of Jupiter that was inside the Temple of Jupiter Optimus Maximus on the Capitoline Hill, and possibly the Apollo of Veii. His statue of Jupiter, which being made of terracotta had a red face, was so famous that victorious Roman generals would paint their faces red during their triumphal marches through Rome. Pliny the Elder wrote that his works were \"the finest images of deities of that era...more admired than gold.\"\n"}
