{"id": "31691727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31691727", "title": "Alas (geography)", "text": "Alas (geography)\n\nAlas () is a shallow depression which occurs primarily in Yakutia, which is formed by subsidence of the Arctic permafrost due to repeated melting and refreezing. An alas first develops as a shallow lake as melt water fills the depression. The lake eventually dries out and is replaced by grasses and other herbaceous vegetation.\n\nAn alas is different from thermokarst depressions found elsewhere in the Arctic in that the lake is only temporary. Due to the aridity of Yakutia, the lake will dry up once the underlying ice has been depleted.\n\nAlases are often used for pasturage for horses as well as hay-fields.\n"}
{"id": "18906408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18906408", "title": "Allsport GPS", "text": "Allsport GPS\n\nAllsport GPS was a fitness tracking phone application combined with a website. As of March 2016, it was discontinued and services were shut down.\n\nIt uses GPS to provide performance statistics and is run on a GPS-enabled cell phone. The GPS gives Allsport GPS a precise way of measuring statistics such as pace, speed, time and distance. Users can view their route overlaid on a map. The application is used for fitness training regimes and goal tracking. The workout information uploads to the Allsport GPS website wirelessly. In 2006 Allsport GPS introduced the ability to view workouts in the Trimble Outdoors Google Earth layer.\n\nAllsport GPS is a part of the Trimble Outdoors product family. It is owned by Trimble Navigation which was founded in 1978. The Allsport GPS application was bought by Trimble in April 2006. The software continues to be updated periodically. Allsport GPS started out as only available on limited phone models and carriers, but this list has steadily been expanding since then. In 2007 Allsport GPS was released on Blackberry phones. Allsport GPS was released on AT&T phones in 2008.\n\nThe purpose of Allsport GPS is to support fitness and performance tracking. It is part of a trio of cell phone applications called Trimble Outdoors. It can be used for workouts such as running, jogging, mountain biking, road biking, and walking. The application is downloaded onto a GPS cell phone. The user then straps the phone onto themselves or onto their bike, or holds the phone for the duration of their workout. During the workout Allsport GPS supplies real time statistics such as calories burned, time, speed and distance. These statistics are updated every ten seconds. \n\nAfter the workout, the data is automatically uploaded wirelessly to the website. The data can then be viewed, as well as a trip calendar showing all workouts over time, and elevation and speed profiles. On the Allsport map function, the workout can be viewed on a map both on the phone and on the website. The route can be made public and shared with others. The user can do a trip search on the website and view other users' shared workouts as well as workouts from \"Bicycling Magazine\". These routes can be downloaded from the website. The phone application has a race-against-yourself feature that enables the user to compare their times and distances multiple times over the same track.\n\nAllsport GPS has been mentioned in print and internet publications such as \"Men’s Health Magazine\" and \"The New York Times Online\". In 2007 it was named GPS Gadget of the Week by GeoCarta. Both Fred Zahradnik from About.com GPS and \"Laptop Magazine\" gave Allsport GPS 4/5 stars in 2007.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52901548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52901548", "title": "Basalt Rocks", "text": "Basalt Rocks\n\nBasalt Rocks () are volcanic rock outcrops in the form of columnar basalt located in Sinop Province, northern Turkey. The area is a registered natural monument of the country.\n\nIt is away from the center of Boyabat in Sinop Province, and situated in Fındıklık location nearbay Kurusaray village.\n\nThe basalt columns were formed about 3-5 million years ago according to research carried out by geologists from Mineral Research and Exploration Co. (MTA) and Dokuz Eylül University.\n\nThe basalt formations are situated in three neighboring valleys. The vertically-jointed basalt columns are in polygonal form as rectangular, pentagonal and hexagonal prisms, and are high. It covers an area of .\n\nThe formation, structure, and the outlook of the basalt rocks are rare examples in the world. It was declared a protected area of first grade on March 8, 1996 due to its geological and touristic importance. On September 17, 2007, the local administration applied to the Ministry of Forest and Water Management for acknowledgement as a natural monument. The area was registered a natural monument in 2011.\n"}
{"id": "34375080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34375080", "title": "Bible Belt (disambiguation)", "text": "Bible Belt (disambiguation)\n\nBible Belt is an informal term for a region in the southeastern and south-central United States in which socially conservative evangelical protestantism is a significant part of the culture.\n\nIt is also used more generically for any region of a country that is more conservative and religious than the country as a whole, as in:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8972270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8972270", "title": "Boundary Markers of the Original District of Columbia", "text": "Boundary Markers of the Original District of Columbia\n\nThe boundary markers of the original District of Columbia are the 40 milestones that marked the four lines forming the boundaries between the states of Maryland and Virginia and the square of 100 square miles (259 km²) of federal territory that became the District of Columbia in 1801 (see: Founding of Washington, D.C.). Working under the supervision of three commissioners that President George Washington had appointed in 1790 in accordance with the federal Residence Act, a surveying team that Major Andrew Ellicott led placed these markers in 1791 and 1792. Among Ellicott's assistants were his brothers Joseph and Benjamin Ellicott, Isaac Roberdeau, George Fenwick, Isaac Briggs and an African American astronomer, Benjamin Banneker. Today, 36 of the original marker stones survive as the oldest federally placed monuments in the United States. Due to the return of the portion of the District south and west of the Potomac River to Virginia in 1846, twelve of these markers are now within Virginia.\n\nThe District of Columbia (initially, the Territory of Columbia) was originally specified to be a square in area, with the axes between the corners of the square running north-south and east-west, and having its southern corner at the southern tip of Jones Point in Alexandria, Virginia, at the confluence of the Potomac River and Hunting Creek (later the site of the Jones Point Lighthouse). The sides of the square are each long. The specified orientation results in a diamond shape for the District's original boundaries on most maps.\n\nThe north-south axis of the District's current boundaries extends southward from the District's north corner near East-West Highway (Maryland Route 410), travels between 17th and 18th Streets, N.W., and continues south across the National Mall to the far shore of the Potomac River; the east-west axis is between the present Constitution Avenue and C Street, N.E. and N.W. These axes are not the lines used to define the four geographical quadrants of the District (N.E., N.W., S.E., and S.W.), commonly appended to Washington street addresses, which are delimited generally by North Capitol Street, East Capitol Street, South Capitol Street, and the National Mall. The center of the square is west of the Ellipse and north of the Mall, within the grounds of the headquarters of the Organization of American States.\n\nIn 2011, the District of Columbia geographic information system (GIS) program completed a project to map the District's boundary using Global Positioning System (GPS) and contemporary survey technology at an accuracy of +/- horizontally and +/- vertically. The GIS program's survey found that (listed in the order in which Andrew Ellicott's team performed the initial boundary survey):\n\n\nThe overall accuracy of the historic survey and the survey using 2011 technology produced remarkably similar results. For example, the distance between Southeast stones numbers 6 and 7 is , almost exactly one mile ().\n\nOn March 30, 1791, President George Washington issued a proclamation that established ″Jones's point, the upper cape of Hunting Creek in Virginia″ as the starting point for the federal territory's boundary survey. Acting in accordance with instructions in the proclamation, the survey team then began its work at the square's south corner on the shoreline of the point, which was at the southeast corner of Alexandria, Virginia. On April 15, 1791, officials dedicated the south corner stone in an elaborate Masonic ceremony at a point that Andrew Ellicott had determined.\n\nThe survey team then cleared a corridor along the boundary route to facilitate surveying, traveling clockwise from the point and placing sandstone boundary markers at the four corners and at intervals of approximately one mile. The markers were quarried near Aquia Creek in Virginia. Most weighed about a half-ton at their emplacement; the four cornerstones were slightly larger. The Virginia stones were set in 1791, and the Maryland ones in 1792. The map on the web page \"Boundary Stones of the District of Columbia\" identifies the location of each of the four corner stones and the existing intermediate stones.\n\nThe side of a boundary marker that faced the federal territory was inscribed \"Jurisdiction of the United States\" and with the distance in miles and poles from the previous corner stone. The opposite side was marked with the name of the border state: Virginia or Maryland. The remaining sides were marked with the year that the team placed the stones and with the variation (\"Var.\") of the compass needle at that place.\n\nOn January 1, 1793, Andrew Ellicott submitted to the commissioners a report that stated that the boundary survey had been completed and that all of the boundary marker stones had been set in place. Ellicott's report described the marker stones and contained a map that showed the boundaries and topographical features of the Territory of Columbia, The map identified the locations within the Territory of the planned City of Washington and its major streets, as well as the location of each boundary marker stone.\nThe following images show the sides of the Southeast No. 6 boundary marker stone on August 17, 2011:\nIn 1906, Fred E. Woodward read a paper to the Columbia Historical Society that described the history, location and conditions of each of the remaining boundary stones, together with photographs of each. His paper concluded by recommending that the stones be protected by placing small fences around each one.\nIn 1909, Ernest A. Shuster of the United States Geological Survey wrote an article for the \"National Geographic Magazine\" that described his visits to the 36 remaining boundary stones and that urged their protection and preservation.\n\nIn 1915, various local chapters of the Daughters of the American Revolution (DAR) began to place fences around each of the markers. The DAR also placed at the exact center of the original federal territory a marker stone that was located about a half of a mile from the White House and was near the DAR's Memorial Continental Hall.\n\nOne Virginia boundary marker was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1976, and another in 1980. In 1991, the remaining Virginia boundary markers were added to the National Register in response to a Multiple Property Submission that the Virginia DAR had submitted. In 1996, 23 marker stones along the boundary between the District of Columbia and Maryland were added to the National Register in response to registration forms that the District of Columbia government had submitted for each of the stones. Each of the District's registration forms referenced the documentation in the Multiple Property Submission for the Virginia markers.\n\nSouthwest 9. This boundary marker in Virginia was added to the National Register of Historic Places, and further was named a U.S. National Historic Landmark, in 1976 at the instigation of the Afro-American Bicentennial Corporation, which gave the stone its name: . It was the first of the boundary markers to be listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nSouth Corner. This boundary marker in Virginia was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1980, together with Alexandria's Jones Point Lighthouse.\n\nSouthwest 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8; West Corner; Northwest 1, 2, and 3. These boundary markers in Virginia were added to the National Register of Historic Places on February 1, 1991.\n\nNorthwest 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9; North Corner; Northeast 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9; East Corner; Southeast 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, and 9. These boundary markers, located along the border between the District of Columbia and Maryland, were added to the National Register of Historic Places on November 1, 1996.\n\nIn 1976, the National Capital Planning Commission published a report that described the history and condition of each boundary stone. The report recommended that measures be taken to assure the stones' preservation. In 1990 and 1991, a resurveying team to celebrate the boundary markers' bicentennial located two of the then-missing stones.\n\nIn 1995, the Northern Virginia Boundary Stones Committee, whose establishment the Northern Virginia Regional Commission (NVRC) had requested, issued a list of recommendations intended to document and preserve the 14 boundary stones that were located in Virginia. The Committee included representatives of the State of Maryland and of Arlington and Fairfax counties and the cities of Alexandria and Falls Church in Virginia.\n\nIn 2008, the NVRC announced that four Virginia local governments, including Arlington and Fairfax counties and the cities of Alexandria and Falls Church, had agreed to help fund a project to protect and preserve the boundary stones by providing matching funds to a Transportation Enhancement Grant that the District Department of Transportation (DDOT) had received from the Federal Highway Administration (FHA). The announcement stated that the NVRC was working on an agreement with the DDOT, the National Park Service and the FHA to administer the project.\n\nHowever, the preservation project had not yet begun by 2012. It appeared that the DDOT no longer had the funds that had been allocated for the project. In the meantime, teams of volunteers had begun to landscape and repaint the fences surrounding the stones. In addition, the District of Columbia DAR restored the Northeast No. 7 boundary marker and its fence in 2012.\n\nIn 2014, the National Park Service, the historic preservation staff of the District of Columbia Office of Planning, the DDOT and the DAR initiated an effort to rehabilitate the boundary markers that were located along the District's contemporary boundaries. As part of the project, in January 2015 a DDOT crew unearthed a stone buried in 1962 that had replaced Southeast No. 8, with the intention of cleaning and restoring the marker. However, in 2016, the stone was replaced by a new stone that presumably replicated the appearance of the original stone when the original was new.\n\nThe 36 extant and four missing boundary stones are tabulated in sequence below, beginning at the southern corner and proceeding clockwise, in the same order as the stones were placed. The year of designation on the National Register of Historic Places is also included for each stone.\n\nExplanatory plaques that are not attached to fences accompany several boundary marker stones, including:\nIn 2005, the Arlington County, Virginia, government erected historical markers near the Southwest Nos. 6 and 8 boundary marker stones of the original District of Columbia.\nFour of the forty original boundary markers were not in or near their original locations in late 2016. Three of these had been replaced with substitute markers.\n\nA group of entrance markers, erected later along major roads that travel into the District of Columbia, are located on or near the boundary of D.C. and Maryland. Three pairs of marker stones and another single stone are known collectively as the Garden Club of America Entrance Markers. They are all listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nA D.C. entrance marker stands in a traffic circle (Blair Circle) near downtown Silver Spring, Maryland, at the junction of Eastern Avenue NW, 16th Street NW, N. Portal Drive NW and Colesville Road. This marker is between the North Corner boundary marker and the former site of the Northeast No. 1 boundary marker of the original District of Columbia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4345563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4345563", "title": "Cape Columbia", "text": "Cape Columbia\n\nCape Columbia is the northernmost point of land of Canada, located on Ellesmere Island in the Qikiqtaaluk Region of Nunavut. It marks the westernmost coastal point of Lincoln Sea in the Arctic Ocean. It is the world's northernmost point of land outside Greenland and the distance to the North Pole is . \n\nIn 1876, Pelham Aldrich was the first European to reach Cape Columbia. He was a lieutenant with the expedition (1875-76) of British explorer George Nares. \n\nRobert Peary chose the Cape as the location for the northernmost depot of his final attempt to reach the Pole (1909), not only for its proximity but because it is located far enough west to be out of the ice current setting down Robeson Channel. From Cape Columbia his party planned to strike straight north over the ice of the Arctic Sea. His winter camp and ship the \"Roosevelt\" were situated some southeast, at Cape Sheridan near Alert.\n\nPeary's sledge divisions left the Roosevelt from February 15 to 22, 1909, rendezvoused at Cape Columbia, and on March 1 the expedition left Cape Columbia, heading across the Arctic Ocean for the Pole. The 84th parallel was crossed on March 18, the 86th on March 23. Peary returned to land at Cape Columbia again on April 23. Peary's claim to have reached the North Pole has long been subject to doubt. While some polar historians believe that Peary honestly thought he had reached the pole, others have suggested that he was guilty of deliberately exaggerating his accomplishments.\n"}
{"id": "39261432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39261432", "title": "Centenary and Coronation Park", "text": "Centenary and Coronation Park\n\nIn 2005, King Jigme Singye Wangchuck stepped down from the throne to make way for his Son Jigme Khesar Namgyal Wangchuck to lead the kingdom of Bhutan. The new king studied in Britain and various universities in the US. The Coronation and Centenary Park was built to honour our new king. Ashi Chimi Yangzom Wangchuck inaugurated the Centenary and Coronation Park on 26 September 2006. It is positioned in the middle of Changlimithang ground and Wangchu River. It is built on an area of 5.6 acre of land running along the banks of river Wangchu. The park was formed by footpaths made of stones, canopies and benches. There are small swings and slides, a miniature basketball court and a small sand football ground. Not only that the park is filled with gardens of more than sixty species of flower and trees. During the evening the lights are lit up by the Thimphu Power Corporation of Bhutan.\n\nA 45 feet tall statue of a Buddha walking was inaugurated on 13 April 2012 which symbolizing the celebration of the 84th Birth Anniversary of Thailand’s King and also the wedding anniversary of His Majesty the King. It is also believed to have been constructed for the people to pursue happiness. The inauguration was ended by lighting candles and reciting prayers.\n\nA Centenary Farmers Market located two minutes from the park is the perfect place to shop for groceries and almost any household items for a reasonable prize. There is also a national football stadium locally known as Changlimithang Stadium where it is served as a multi-propose stadium for football matches, archery matches and to celebrate exceptional occasions.\n"}
{"id": "29142384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29142384", "title": "Dalongdong", "text": "Dalongdong\n\nDalongdong (), or Toalongpong (; and variants 大浪泵/大隆同), is an old village in historical Taipei located nears the narrows of the intersection between the Keelung and Tamsui Rivers. The district has since been merged with the newer Twatutia district in the south during the Qing dynasty to form Datong District.\n\nThe village, officially created in 1853 (3rd year of the Xianfeng Emperor), covered the area extending from the Chen Teacher's abode () and beyond the area of \"sishisikan\" (四十四坎) and the Taipei Confucius Temple. During Japanese rule, the villages of Twatutia, Toalongpong, and Bangka were combined with the walled city of Taipeh (in present-day Zhongzheng District) and incorporated into present-day Taipei city. Although this district now exists only historically, its name still officially remains in the Dalongdong Baoan Temple and on bus numbers 303 and 669 of the Taipei bus system.\n\nAlthough the history of the village likely preceded Dutch Formosa rule, its existence was first recorded during this time as Pourompon (from the Basay language). This gave rise to the names \"Paronpon\" (), \"Daronpon\" () and other variants, when the area came under Qing dynasty rule. The name was once again changed () in 1802 (7th year of Jiaqing Emperor), by settlers from Tong'an District in Xiamen. It was during this period that the Baoan Temple was first constructed. The name finally settled in its present form () during the reign of the Daoguang Emperor (1820-1850) when further settlement occurred in the area.\n\n"}
{"id": "10854775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10854775", "title": "Environmental data rescue", "text": "Environmental data rescue\n\nEnvironmental data rescue is a collection of processes, including photography and scanning, that stores historical and modern environmental data in a usable format. The data is then analyzed and used in scientific models. Historical weather information helps meteorologists and climatologists understand past trends in weather changes, which helps them forecast and predict future weather. \n\nOne method takes digital photographs of environmental datum stored on paper medium and then ships the images to a facility where they are entered into a database.\n\nThroughout the world, some estimate 700,000 pieces of data are lost every day due to inks fading, paper deteriorating, magnetic tape cross-talk etc. A rough estimate of 100 billion parameter values that are still on paper exists, microfiche, microfilm, and magnetic tape that are in a format unusable by computers and scientists alike, which need to be digitized. This data is stored on a variety of media from paper, microfiche, to older magnetic tapes that are going bad. \n\nOnce data is digitized, it can be used to help a large range of people from farmers to engineers and in scientific pursuits such as climate studies. \nNational Climatic Data Center is the current collection point for this data within the National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration.\n\nHistorical Environmental Data are also used as a basis for \"Disease Vectorization\" where the areal spread of airborne diseases are correlated to historical weather conditions so that in future outbreaks, health care teams can predict the direction and rate of spread of the disease so that remedial actions can begin before the disease reaches the vulnerable population. Historic data are also used in designing structures such as bridges and buildings, assist the 1.8 billion subsistence farmers throughout the world better plan crops alleviating starvation.\nThe International Environmental Data Rescue Organization, a 501(C)(3) non-profit organization has already participated in the rescue and digitization of one million historic weather observations in Africa and South America: http://IEDRO.ORG\n"}
{"id": "51176555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51176555", "title": "Evesham Custom", "text": "Evesham Custom\n\nThe Evesham Custom is a distinctive form of customary leasehold tenure used in the market gardens of Evesham, Worcestershire. It is the most well-known of a number of former local practises, such as the Ulster Custom and North Lincolnshire Custom. The underlying principle of such customs was that the tenant could be granted compensation for any improvements they made to the land they leased, since the common law did not provide any such protection.\n\nLocal customs supplementary to the usual law of leases, such as the Evesham Custom, were seen as having existed over generations in particular areas, being defined as something \"to which the memory of man runneth not to the contrary\". In the case of Evesham, the custom provided not only a lifetime security of tenure (in a period when market garden leases were generally from year to year, traditionally renewable at Michaelmas) and allowed certain improvements to be made without the landlord's permission, but also ensured that a tenant could be compensated through a system of personal bargaining.\n\nA tenant of a market garden, or other land, under the Evesham Custom has the right to sell their tenancy if the landlord gives their approval, including the right to nominate the new tenant. The payment (known as the \"ingoing\") made by the incoming tenant includes compensation for any improvements the outgoing tenant has made, such as the planting of fruit trees. The payment also includes a premium for receiving a tenancy offering lifetime security. The entire transaction is made between the outgoing and incoming tenant, with the landlord not involved beyond giving their approval. Furthermore, if the landlord does not accept the new tenant, they are obliged to compensate the outgoing tenant to ensure they did not suffer any financial loss.\n\nThis \"added value\" had the effect of encouraging tenants to further improve their land, by ensuring that they could still realise the full value of the improvements they made if they ended their tenancy. Through this compensation payment and by giving security of tenure, the Custom also gave tenants confidence to invest in crops, like asparagus, that took several years to reach maturity.\n\nFrom the larger landowner's perspective, the Custom removed from the landlord the trouble and expense of making improvements themselves and the need to negotiate the tenancies of many small garden plots. The Custom helped ensure that Evesham developed a flourishing market gardening industry by the late 19th century, with the price of the tenantright under the Custom often exceeding the freehold value of the land itself.\n\nEvesham has a long history of market gardening activity, with some evidence that it was first popularised in the mid 17th century by the activities of a local landowner, Francis Bernadi (former Resident for the Republic of Genoa). By the early 19th century there were a number of gardeners and fruit growers in the Vale. The Custom first appeared in this period, though it was initially understood to be of the nature of a gentlemen's agreement and the landlord had no legal obligation to accept it. Pressure to formalise the customary rights of Evesham's market gardeners increased after an 1870s legal dispute between the owner of land near Evesham Abbey and his tenants, and the basic principles of the Custom were first set down by a special committee of the Vale of Evesham Agricultural Society in 1880.\n\nAlthough definite records of the Evesham Custom first appear in the early-mid 19th century, some commentators in the past have assumed that the rights originated from \"some earlier epoch\". The ruralist writer H. J. Massingham, who was familiar with the operation of the Custom, expressed a belief that the tenant rights of Evesham were a direct descendant of those of the \"small masters\" who from the early mediaeval period practised cultivation in open fields owned by the Abbey. Massingham commented that after the 1874 agricultural depression, the area's large landlords split their farms up and let smaller parcels of land to labourers who were protected by the survival of ancient customary rights and by the local influence of Joseph Arch. J. M. Martin has noted that an \"archaic\" form of life leasehold was practised in Pershore by the estates of the Duke of Westminster, where wills of the 18th century spoke of a \"tenant right of renewing\", and that a similarly archaic form of copyhold tenure was found in Shipston-on-Stour on land belonging to the Dean and Chapter of Worcester. Both had survived in areas where large estates had to manage many small tenancies, as in Evesham, and it is possible that a similar local tradition was the source of the rights enjoyed by the Vale of Evesham's market gardeners. Another view states that the Custom originated on a single small estate at the end of the Napoleonic Wars, and subsequently spread throughout the district.\n\nA certain amount of recognition was given by the Small Holdings and Allotments Act 1908, but the Evesham Custom was eventually given stautory expression in s.68 of the Agricultural Holdings Act 1948, which granted tenant farmers security of tenure for life. There were proposals to abolish it in 1949, which generated protest from fruit growers and market gardeners, and which were not eventually followed through. The rights continued under the Agricultural Holdings Act 1986, but on the introduction of the Agricultural Tenancies Act 1995, it was required to create a special exclusion to ensure the continued working of the Evesham Custom, as otherwise an outgoing tenant would not be able to offer a tenancy to an incomer on equivalent terms and security.\n\nAlthough the number of market gardens in the Vale of Evesham has declined sharply since the mid 20th century, the Evesham Custom is still observed in tenancies. In 1995, at the reading of the Agricultural Tenancies Bill, the local MP Michael Spicer observed that there were still around 420 tenants potentially affected, and noted that they could expect to realise \"ingoing\" payments of £200-£300 an acre (at that time, 50% of the land's freehold value). As market gardening has further declined it has become more common for landlords to take over the land at the end of tenancies, and by the mid 2000s, there was evidence that solicitors employed by some landlords were attempting to avoid the traditional operation of the Custom by making minimal compensation payments to outgoing tenants.\n\n"}
{"id": "1558634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1558634", "title": "GPS drawing", "text": "GPS drawing\n\nGPS Drawing, also known as GPS Art and Strava Art, is a method of drawing where an uses a Global Positioning System (GPS) device and follows a pre planned route to create a large-scale picture or text on a map. Artists usually run or cycle the route though cars, vans, and aeroplanes are used to create larger pieces. \n\nGPS artists can spend many hours finding a certain image or text hidden in a map or can sometimes simply see an existing image in a map due to Pareidolia. In many cities and towns the road layout and landscape restricts the routes available so artisst have to find creative ways to show their pictures or characters. In cities where there is a strong grid pattern an 8-bit style or pixelated images can be created of almost any object or shape. Many artists will create paper or digital maps of their route to follow on their journey.\n\nThere are many approaches to GPS Drawing which an artist can choose depending or their means of travel and the landscape around them.\n\nThis style uses only pre existing roads, paths, trails, etc. which can make it more challenging to find a route and plan the artwork. On the other hand following these paths makes navigation during the journey much easier and the artwork is more likely to reflect the original plan. This is how the majority of GPS artworks are made.\n\nFreehand GPS drawing is where artist creates a shape on open ground without following existing paths which means the artist has to watch their progress in real time on their GPS device. Artists can run or cycle over open ground such as parks, fields, and car parks. Artists in cars and other motor vehicles can draw shapes on large open areas such as deserts, airfields, and beaches. Almost all artworks created by aircraft and watercraft use this technique as they are not restricted by human and physical geography. Freehand GPS drawing opens unlimited possibilities but without waypoints and existing routes it is very easy to loose track of your progress and make mistakes.\n\nBy pausing the GPS device and restarting it at different locations an artist is able to draw straight lines across the map though the built environment and over physical barriers. Though this can create very striking images and open up new possibilities in a city most artists do not use technique.\n\nSome artists add extra images or lines to the map after they have created the route. They can do this to simply add googly eyes to an animal or face or go further add lines and other features which help viewers see what they have drawn. Other times an artist will show a photo or other image alongside their drawing if it is not clear at first glance what has been drawn.\n\nMost people use a route mapping app or other service to display their drawing online and to share on social media. Popular apps include Strava, Map My Run, and Garmin. Many artists also import their route into Google Maps, Open Streetmap, Viweranger, and other map services before capturing the image to display and share. This gives the artist the option of expanding and cropping the image, orienting it another way, or tilting the map to add perspective. Some artists use false color maps then choose contrasting colors for their route to create vivid images.\n\nThe idea was first implemented by artists Hugh Pryor and Jeremy Wood, whose work includes a 13-mile wide fish in Oxfordshire, spiders with legs 21 miles long in Port Meadow, Oxford, and \"the world's biggest 'IF'\": a pair of letters, \"I\", which goes from Iffley in Oxford to Southampton and back, and \"F\" which traverses through the Ifield Road in London down to Iford, East Sussex, through Iford and back up through Ifold in West Sussex. The total length is 537 km, and the height of the drawing in typographic units is 319,334,400 points. Typical computer fonts at standard resolutions are between 8 and 12 points.\n\nIn early 2014 programmer Joe Rosen released a GPS-A-Sketch GPS sketching app for iOS, through the iTunes App Store.\n\nIn 2016, musicians Shaun Buswell & Erik Nyberg travelled around the United Kingdom drawing a 400+ mile penis across England and Scotland.\n\nIn 2018 artist Nathan Rae created a #WeLoveManchester piece as part of the cememorations of the Manchester Arena Bombing. \n\nOne of the most prolific GPS artists is the artist known as WalleyGPX who, as of October 2018, has created over 500 pieces of GPS art. He uses pencil and paper to plan the routes around his home city of Baltimore which he then creates by bicycle.\n\n"}
{"id": "4105326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4105326", "title": "GPS tracking unit", "text": "GPS tracking unit\n\nA GPS tracking unit is a navigation device, normally carried by a moving vehicle or person, that uses the Global Positioning System (GPS) to track the device’s movements and determine its location. The recorded location data can either be stored within the tracking unit or transmitted to an Internet-connected device using the cellular (GPRS or SMS), radio, or satellite modem embedded in the unit. This allows the location to be displayed against a map backdrop either in real time or when analysing the track later, using GPS tracking software. Data tracking software is available for smartphones with GPS capability.\n\nA GPS \"track me\" essentially contains a GPS module that receives the GPS signal and calculates the coordinates. For data loggers, it contains large memory to store the coordinates. Data pushers additionally contain a GSM/GPRS/CDMA/LTE modem to transmit this information to a central computer either via SMS or GPRS in form of IP packets. Satellite-based GPS tracking units will operate anywhere on the globe using satellite technology such as GlobalStar or Iridium and do not require a cellular connection.\n\nThere are three types of GPS trackers, though most GPS-equipped phones can work in any of these modes depending on mobile applications installed:\n\nGPS loggers log the position of the device at regular intervals in its internal memory. GPS loggers may have either a memory card slot, or internal flash memory card and a USB port. Some act as a USB flash drive, which allows downloading of the track log data for further analysis in a computer. The track list or point of interest list may be in GPX, KML, NMEA or other format.\n\nMost digital cameras save the time a photo was taken. Provided the camera clock was reasonably accurate or used GPS as its time source, this time can be correlated with GPS log data, to provide an accurate location. This can be added to the Exif metadata in the picture file. Cameras with GPS receiver built in can directly produce such a geotagged photograph.\n\nIn some private investigation cases, data loggers are used to keep track of a target vehicle. The private investigator need not follow the target so closely, and always has a backup source of data.\n\nData pusher is the most common type of GPS tracking unit, used for asset tracking, personal tracking and vehicle tracking systems.\n\nAlso known as a \"GPS beacon\", this kind of device pushes (i.e. \"sends\") the position of the device as well as other information like speed or altitude at regular intervals, to a determined server, that can store and instantly analyze the data.\n\nA GPS navigation device and a mobile phone sit side-by-side in the same box, powered by the same battery. At regular intervals, the phone sends a text message via SMS or GPRS, containing the data from the GPS receiver. Newer GPS-integrated smartphones running GPS tracking software can turn the phone into a data pusher (or logger) device. As of 2009, open source and proprietary applications are available for common Java ME enabled phones, iPhone, Android, Windows Mobile, and Symbian.\n\nMost 21st-century GPS trackers provide data \"push\" technology, enabling sophisticated GPS tracking in business environments, specifically organizations that employ a mobile workforce, such as a commercial fleet. Typical GPS tracking systems used in commercial fleet management have two core parts: location hardware (or tracking device) and tracking software. This combination is often referred to as an Automatic Vehicle Location system. The tracking device is most often hardwire installed in the vehicle, connected to the CAN-bus, Ignition system switch, battery. It allows collection of extra data, which later gets transferred to the GPS tracking server, where it is available for viewing, in most cases via a website accessed over the internet, where fleet activity can be viewed live or historically using digital maps and reports.\n\nGPS tracking systems used in commercial fleets are often configured to transmit location and telemetry input data at a set update rate or when an event (door open/close, auxiliary equipment on/off, geofence border cross) triggers the unit to transmit data. Live GPS tracking used in commercial fleets generally refers to systems that update regularly at one-minute, two-minute or five-minute intervals while the ignition status is on. Some tracking systems combine timed updates with heading change triggered updates.\n\nGPS tracking solutions such as Telematics 2.0, an IoT based telematics technology for the automotive industry, are being used within mainstream commercial auto insurance.\nThe applications of trackers of this kind include:\n\nPersonal GPS\n\n\n\nAircraft can be tracked either by ADS-B (primarily airliners and General Aviation aircraft with ADS-B-out enabled transponder), or by FLARM data packets picked up by a network of ground stations (primarily used by General Aviation aircraft, gliders and UAVs), both of which are data pushers. ADS-B is to be superseded by ADS-C, a data puller.\n\nGPS data pullers are also known as \"GPS transponders\". Unlike data pushers that send the position of the devices at regular intervals (push technology), these devices are always on, and can be queried as often as required (pull technology). This technology is not in widespread use, but an example of this kind of device is a computer connected to the Internet and running gpsd.\n\nThese can often be used in the case where the location of the tracker will only need to be known occasionally e.g. placed in property that may be stolen, or that does not have a constant source of energy to send data on a regular basis, like freights or containers.\n\nData Pullers are coming into more common usage in the form of devices containing a GPS receiver and a cell phone which, when sent a special SMS message reply to the message with their location.\n\nCovert GPS trackers contain the same electronics as regular GPS trackers but are constructed in such a way as to appear to be an everyday object. One use for covert GPS trackers is for power tool protection, these devices can be concealed within power tool boxes and traced if theft occurs.\n\nOBD GPS trackers plug into the onboard diagnostic (OBD) port of a light or medium duty vehicle. Usually, an OBD GPS tracker draws power from the OBD port itself and contains a built-in antenna along with a GPS module in order to receive the GPS signal. In addition, OBD trackers communicate with the different vehicle subsystems for receiving vehicle diagnostic and fuel consumption related data. A cellular OBD GPS tracker directly communicates with the cell tower in order to send the location and other vehicle performance data to the server over a cellular wireless network. Users can view the information using standalone software or web browser from a desktop/laptop computer or using smartphone apps. A comparative discussion on OBD GPS trackers and generic GPS trackers can be found at here.\n\nIn the United States, the use of GPS trackers by government authorities is limited by the 4th Amendment to the United States Constitution, so police, for example, usually require a search warrant in most circumstances. While police have placed GPS trackers in vehicles without warrant, this usage was questioned in court in early 2009.\n\nUse by private citizens is regulated in some states, such as California, where California Penal Code Section 637.7 states: \n(a) No person or entity in this state shall use an electronic tracking device to determine the location or movement of a person. \n(b) This section shall not apply when the registered owner, lesser, or lessee of a vehicle has consented to the use of the electronic tracking device with respect to that vehicle. \n(c) This section shall not apply to the lawful use of an electronic tracking device by a law enforcement agency. \n(d) As used in this section, \"electronic tracking device\" means any device attached to a vehicle or other movable thing that reveals its location or movement by transmission of electronic signals. \n(e) A violation of this section is a misdemeanor.\n(f) A violation of this section by a person, business, firm, company, association, partnership, or corporation licensed under Division 3 (commencing with Section 5000) of the Business and Professions Code shall constitute grounds for revocation of the license issued to that person, business, firm, company, association, partnership, or corporation, pursuant to the provisions that provide for the revocation of the license as set forth in Division 3 (commencing with Section 5000) of the Business and Professions Code.\n\nNote that 637.7 pertains to all electronic tracking devices, and does not differentiate between those that rely on GPS technology or not. As the laws catch up with the times, it is plausible that all 50 states will eventually enact laws similar to those of California. \n\nOther laws, like the common law invasion of privacy tort as well as state criminal wiretapping statutes (for example, the wiretapping statute of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, which is extremely restrictive) potentially cover the use of GPS tracking devices by private citizens without consent of the individual being so tracked. Privacy can also be a problem when people use the devices to track the activities of a loved one. GPS tracking devices have also been put on religious statues in order to track the whereabouts of the statue if stolen.\n\nIn 2009, debate ensued about a Georgia proposal to outlaw hidden GPS tracking, with an exception for law enforcement officers but not for private investigators. See Georgia HB 16 - Electronic tracking device; location of person without consent (2009).\n\nThe law in the UK has not specifically addressed the use of GPS trackers, but several laws may affect the use of this technology as a surveillance tool.\n\nData Protection Act 1998\n\nIt is quite clear that if client instructions (written or digitally transmitted) that identify a person and a vehicle are combined with a tracker, the information gathered by the tracker becomes personal data as defined by the Data Protection Act 1998. The document “What is personal data? – A quick reference guide” published by the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) makes clear that data identifying a living individual is personal data. If a living individual can be identified from the data, with or without additional information that may become available, is personal data.\n\nIdentifiability\n\nAn individual is \"identified\" if distinguished from other members of a group. In most cases an individual’s name, together with some other information, will be sufficient to identify them, but a person can be identified even if their name is not known. Start by looking at the means available to identify an individual and the extent to which such means are readily available to you.\n\nDoes the data ‘relate to’ the identifiable living individual, whether in personal or family life, business or profession?\n\nRelates to' means: Data which identifies an individual, even without an associated name, may be personal data which is processed to learn or record something about that individual, or the processing of information that affects the individual. Therefore, data may ‘relate to’ an individual in several different ways.\n\nIs the data ‘obviously about’ a particular individual? \n\nData ‘obviously about’ an individual will include his medical history, criminal record, record of his work, or his achievements in a sporting activity. Data that is not ‘obviously about’ a particular individual may include information about his activities. Data such as personal bank statements or itemized telephone bills will be personal data about the individual operating the account or contracting for telephone services. Where data is not ‘obviously about’ an identifiable individual it may be helpful to consider whether the data is being processed, or could easily be processed, to learn, record or decide something about an identifiable individual. Information may be personal data where the aim, or an incidental consequence, of the processing, is that you learn or record something about an identifiable individual, or the processing could affect an identifiable individual. Data from a Tracker would be to identify the individual or his activities. It is therefore personal data within the meaning of the Data Protection Act 1998.\n\nAny individual who wishes to gather personal data must be registered with the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) and have a DPA number. It is a criminal offense to process data and not have a DPA number.\n\nTrespass\n\nIt may be a civil trespass to deploy a tracker onto a car not belonging to your client or to yourself. But in the OSC’s annual inspection, the OSC’s Chief Surveillance Commissioner Sir Christopher Rose stated “putting an arm into a wheel arch or under the frame of a vehicle is straining the concept of trespass“.\n\nHowever, entering private land of anyone in order to deploy a tracker is clearly a trespass which is a civil tort.\n\nPrevention of Harassment Act 1997\n\nAt times, the public misinterprets surveillance, in all its forms, as stalking. Whilst there is no strict legal definition of 'stalking', neither is there specific legislation to address this behavior. Rather, it is a term used to describe a particular kind of harassment. Generally, it is used to describe a long-term pattern of persistent and repeated contact with, or attempts to contact, a particular victim.\n\nThe Protection of Freedoms Act 2012 created two new offenses of stalking by inserting new sections 2A and 4A into the PHA 1997. The new offences which came into force on 25 November 2012, are not retrospective. Section 2A (3) of the PHA 1997 sets out examples of acts or omissions which, in particular circumstances, are ones associated with stalking. Examples are: following a person, watching or spying on them, or forcing contact with the victim through any means, including social media.\n\nSuch behavior curtails a victim's freedom, leaving them feeling that they constantly have to be careful. In many cases, the conduct might appear innocent (if considered in isolation), but when carried out repeatedly, so as to amount to a course of conduct, it may then cause significant alarm, harassment or distress to the victim.\n\nIt should be noted that the examples given in section 2A (3) is not an exhaustive list but an indication of the types of behavior that may be displayed in a stalking offense.\n\nStalking and harassment of another or others can include a range of offenses such as those under the Protection from Harassment Act 1997; the Offences Against the Person Act 1861; the Sexual Offences Act 2003; and the Malicious Communications Act 1988.\n\nExamples of the types of conduct often associated with stalking include direct communication; physical following; indirect contact through friends, colleagues, family or technology; or, other intrusions into the victim’s privacy. The behavior curtails a victim’s freedom, leaving them feeling that they constantly have to be careful.\n\nIf the subject of inquiry is aware of the tracking, then this may amount to harassment under the Prevention of Harassment Act 1997. There is a case at the Royal Courts of Justice where a private investigator is being sued under this act for the use of trackers. In December 2011, a Claim was brought against Richmond Day & Wilson Limited (First Defendant) and Bernard Matthews Limited (Second Defendant), Britain’s leading Turkey Provider.\n\nThe case relates to the discovery of a tracking device found in August 2011 on a vehicle supposedly connected to Hillside Animal Sanctuary.\n\nRegulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000\n\nProperty Interference: The Home Office published a document entitled “Covert Surveillance and Property Interference, Revised Code of Practice, Pursuant to section 71 of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000” where it suggests in Chapter 7, page 61 that;\n\nGeneral basis for lawful activity\n\n7. 1 Authorizations under section 5 of the 1994 Act or Part III of the 1997 Act should be sought wherever members of the intelligence services, the police, the services police, Serious and Organised Crime Agency (SOCA), Scottish Crime and Drug Enforcement Agency (SCDEA), HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) or Office of Fair Trading (OFT), or persons acting on their behalf, conduct entry on, or interference with, property or with wireless telegraphy that would be otherwise unlawful.\n\n7. 2 For the purposes of this chapter, “property interference” shall be taken to include entry on, or interference with, property or with wireless telegraphy.\n\nExample: The use of a surveillance device for providing information about the location of a vehicle may involve some physical interference with that vehicle as well as subsequent directed surveillance activity. Such an operation could be authorized by a combined authorization for property interference (under Part III of the 1997 Act) and, where appropriate, directed surveillance (under the 2000 Act). In this case, the necessity and proportionality of the property interference element of the authorization would need to be considered by the appropriate authorizing officer separately to the necessity and proportionality of obtaining private information by means of the directed surveillance.\n\nThis can be interpreted to mean that placing a tracker on a vehicle without the consent of the owner is illegal unless you obtain authorization from the Surveillance Commissionaire under the RIPA 2000 laws. Since a member of the public cannot obtain such authorizations, it is therefore illegal property interference.\n\nAnother interpretation is that it is illegal to do so if you are acting under the instruction of a public authority and you do not obtain authorization. The legislation makes no mention of property interference for anyone else.\n\nCurrently, there is no legislation in place that deals with the deployment of trackers in a criminal sense except RIPA 2000 and that RIPA 2000 only applies to those agencies and persons mentioned in it.\n\nIn August 2010, Brazilian company Unilever ran a promotion where GPS trackers were placed in boxes of Omo laundry detergent. Teams would then track consumers who purchased the boxes of detergent to their homes where they would be awarded a prize for their purchase. The company also launched a website (in Portuguese) to show the approximate location of the winners' homes. \n\n"}
{"id": "54728786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54728786", "title": "General Secretary Xi Jinping important speech series", "text": "General Secretary Xi Jinping important speech series\n\nGeneral Secretary Xi Jinping important speech series is a book of statements from speeches by Xi Jinping, the current General Secretary of the Communist Party of China, published in 2014 and 2016 and widely distributed during Xi's administration. The book was originally compiled by Party's Publicity Department and published by official People's Publishing House and Study Publishing House. Party's Organization Department ordered to communist staffs and university students must study this book and learn General Secretary's speech spirit.\n\n"}
{"id": "3585714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3585714", "title": "High country (New Zealand)", "text": "High country (New Zealand)\n\nHigh country is a New Zealand term for the elevated pastoral land of the South Island and - to a lesser extent - North Island. This terrain, which can be compared loosely with the outback of Australia, high veldt of South Africa and pampas of Argentina, lies in the rain shadow of the country's mountain ranges and tends to be extensively farmed land with a continental climate consisting of low rainfall, cold winters and hot summers. Livestock farmed in these regions include sheep and - increasingly - deer and alpaca, and a major ground-covering plant of the area is tussock. \n\nRegions of New Zealand closely associated with the high country include Central Otago and the Mackenzie Basin in the South Island, and parts of the North Island Volcanic Plateau. Much of the land is at a high altitude (hence its name), with the majority of the high country being more than 600 metres (2000 feet) above sea level. The land is marked with geological features associated with glaciation from the last ice age, with deep finger-shaped lakes such as Lake Wanaka and Lake Tekapo.\n\nSome high country stations grazed by leasehold farmers are up for tenure review, a process of turning it into freehold or conservation land. A number of conservation issues affect the high country, including wilding conifers, hieracium, soil erosion, and rabbit plagues.\n"}
{"id": "103525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103525", "title": "Hyksos", "text": "Hyksos\n\nThe Hyksos (; Egyptian \"ḥqꜣ(w)-ḫꜣswt\", Egyptological pronunciation: \"heqa khasut\", \"ruler(s) of foreign lands\"; , ) were a people of diverse origins, possibly from Western Asia, who settled in the eastern Nile Delta some time before 1650 BC. The arrival of the Hyksos led to the end of the Thirteenth Dynasty and initiated the Second Intermediate Period of Egypt. In the context of Ancient Egypt, the term \"Asiatic\" may refer to people native to areas east of Egypt.\n\nImmigration by Canaanite populations preceded the Hyksos. Canaanites first appeared in Egypt at the end of the 12th Dynasty 1800 BC or 1720 BC and established an independent realm in the eastern Nile Delta. The Canaanite rulers of the Delta regrouped and founded the Fourteenth Dynasty, which coexisted with the Egyptian Thirteenth Dynasty and was based in Itjtawy. The power of the 13th and 14th Dynasties progressively waned, perhaps due to famine and plague.\nIn about 1650 BC, the Hyksos invaded the territory of both dynasties and established the Fifteenth Dynasty. The collapse of the Thirteenth Dynasty caused a power vacuum in the south, which may have led to the rise of the Sixteenth Dynasty, based in Thebes, and possibly of a local Abydos Dynasty. The Hyksos eventually conquered both, albeit for only a short time in the case of Thebes. From then on, the 17th Dynasty took control of Thebes and reigned for some time in peaceful coexistence with the Hyksos kings, perhaps as their vassals. Eventually, Seqenenre Tao, Kamose and Ahmose waged war against the Hyksos and expelled Khamudi, their last king, from Egypt 1550 BC.\n\nThe Hyksos practised horse burials, and their chief deity, their native storm god, Hadad, they associated with the Egyptian storm and desert god, Set. The Hyksos were a mixed people of mainly Semitic-speaking origin. The Hyksos are generally held to have contained Hurrian and Indo-European elements, particularly among the leadership, but this has been vigorously opposed in some quarters, often for political reasons.\n\nThe Hyksos brought several technical innovations to Egypt, as well as cultural imports such as new musical instruments and foreign loanwords. The changes introduced include new techniques of bronze-working and pottery, new breeds of animals, and new crops. In warfare, they introduced the horse and chariot, the composite bow, improved battle axes, and advanced fortification techniques. Because of these cultural advances, Hyksos' rule became decisive for Egypt's later empire in the Middle East during the New Kingdom.\n\nThe origin of the term \"Hyksos\" derives from the Egyptian expression \"heqau khaswet\" (or \"heqa-khaset\"; \"rulers [of] foreign lands\"), used in Egyptian texts such as the \"Turin King List\" to describe the rulers of neighbouring lands. This expression begins to appear as early as the late Old Kingdom of Egypt to refer to various Nubian chieftains and in the Middle Kingdom to refer to the Semitic-speaking chieftains of Syria and Canaan.\n\nUnique in the Ancient Greek language, the word ὑκσώς (trasl. hyksόs, with the rough breathing and the final grave accent, upon omega) is said to be derived from Egyptian. It is used with the unique meaning of \"king shepherd\", by Manetho (in Ios. Ap. I,14), priest and historian who wrote in Greek and knew the pre-Ptolemaic documents to support his history. Until the decipherment of hieroglyphics Manetho was the only available source for a list of the egyptian kings. As a proof of its non-Greek origin, the word ὑκσώς (hyksōs) does not observe the rules of Ancient Greek accent, and is one of the few Greek words with a kappa followed by a sigma, instead of the more common Xi.\n\nIn his \"Against Apion\", the first-century AD historian Josephus debates the synchronism between the Biblical account of the Exodus of the Israelites from Egypt and two Exodus-like events that the Egyptian historian Manetho (ca. 300 BC) apparently mentions. It is difficult to distinguish between what Manetho himself recounted, and how Josephus or Apion interpret him. Josephus identifies the Israelite Exodus with the first exodus mentioned by Manetho, when some 480,000 Hyksos \"shepherd kings\" (also referred to as just 'shepherds', as 'kings' and as 'captive shepherds' in his discussion of Manetho) left Egypt for Jerusalem. The mention of \"Hyksos\" identifies this first exodus with the Hyksos period (16th century BC).\n\nJosephus provides the earliest recorded instance of the much repeated false etymology of the term \"Hyksos\", as a Hellenised form of the Egyptian phrase \"Hekw Shasu\", meaning \"Shepherd Kings\". Scholars have only recently shown that the term derives from \"heqa-khase\", a phrase meaning \"rulers of foreign lands\".\n\nApion identifies a second exodus mentioned by Manetho when a renegade Egyptian priest called \"Osarseph\" led 80,000 \"lepers\" to rebel against Egypt. Then, Apion additionally conflates these with the Biblical Exodus, and contrary to Manetho, even alleges that this heretic priest changed his name to Moses. Many scholars do not interpret \"lepers\" and \"leprous priests\" as literally referring to a disease, but rather to a strange and unwelcome new belief system.\n\nThe Hyksos are believed to have originated to the north of Palestine. They destroyed Amorite rule Byblos in the 18th century BC, and then entered Egypt, bringing the Middle Kingdom to an end in the 17th century BC. As to a Hyksos \"conquest\", some archaeologists depict the Hyksos as an invading horde of Asiatics. Yet, others refer to a \"creeping conquest\", that is, a gradual infiltration of migrating nomads or semi-nomads who either slowly took over control of the country piecemeal or by a swift coup d'état put themselves at the head of the existing government. \n\nManetho's account, as recorded by Josephus, describes the appearance of the Hyksos in Egypt as an armed invasion by a horde of foreign barbarians who met little resistance, and who subdued the country by military force. He records that the Hyksos burnt their cities, destroyed temples, and led women and children into slavery. It has been claimed that new revolutionary methods of warfare ensured the Hyksos the ascendancy in their influx into the new emporia being established in Egypt's delta and at Thebes in support of the Red Sea trade. Herbert Eustis Winlock describes new military hardware, such as the composite bow, as well as the improved recurve bow, and most importantly the horse-drawn war chariot, as well as improved arrowheads, various kinds of swords and daggers, a new type of shield, mailed shirts, and the metal helmet. The chariot had initially been introduced to the Middle East by Indo-Iranians. The Hyksos were also responsible for introducing the horse into Egypt, and rode them in all their wars. Chariots had earlier played a key role in the conquests of the Hittites in Anatolia, the Indo-Iranians in northern India, and the Mycenaeans in Greece. As the chariot became an important weapon of the nobles and kings of that period, it became a symbol of power throughout Eurasia. Kings were portrayed on chariots, went to war in chariots, and were buried in chariots.\n\nIn recent years the idea of a simple Hyksos migration, with little or no war, has gained support. According to this theory, the Egyptian rulers of the Thirteenth Dynasty were preoccupied with domestic famine and plague, and they were too weak to stop the new migrants from entering and settling in Egypt. Even before the migration, Amenemhat III carried out extensive building works and mining, through which the Hyksos might have arrived in Egypt and overthrown native Egyptian rule. Supporters of the peaceful takeover of Egypt claim there is little evidence of battles or wars in general in this period. They also maintain that the chariot didn't play any relevant role, e.g. no traces of chariots have been found at the Hyksos capital of Avaris, despite extensive excavation. Janine Bourriau's cites lack of Hyksos-style wares as evidence against a Hyksos invasion. Archaeologist Jacquetta Hawkes stated that the Hyksos were migrating Semites rather than a conquering horde. John Van Seters in his book, \"\", argues that the Ipuwer Papyrus does not belong to the First Intermediate Period of Egyptian history (c. 2300-2200 BC), as previously thought, but rather to the Second Intermediate Period (c. 1700-1600 BC). He sees a gradual settlement of the Hyksos from Phoenicia-Palestine.\n\nThe Hyksos were probably an ethnically mixed people of largely Semitic origin. They are believed to have originated from the north of Palestine. The Hurrians also came to Canaan from this area. They were possibly related to the Amorites, and may have included Habiru, a warlike group of largely Semitic peoples. \n\nKamose, the last king of the Theban 17th Dynasty, refers to Apepi as a \"Chieftain of Retjenu\" in a stela that implies a Canaanite background for this Hyksos king: this is the strongest evidence for a Canaanite background for the Hyksos. Khyan's name \"has generally been interpreted as Amorite \"Hayanu\" (reading \"h-ya-a-n\") which the Egyptian form represents perfectly, and this is in all likelihood the correct interpretation.\" Kim Ryholt furthermore observes the name Hayanu is recorded in the Assyrian king-lists for a \"remote ancestor\" of Shamshi-Adad I (c. 1813 BC) of Assyria, which suggests that it had been used for centuries prior to Khyan's own reign. The issue of Sakir-Har's name, one of the three earliest Fifteenth Dynasty kings, also leans towards a West Semitic or Canaanite origin for the Hyksos rulers—if not the Hyksos peoples themselves.\n\nContemporary with the Hyksos, there was a widespread Indo-Aryan expansion in central and south Asia. The arrival of the Hyksos in Egypt, along with the arrival of the Hurrians in Syria and the Kassites in Babylonia, has been connected with this migration. The Hyksos used the same horsedrawn chariot as the Indo-Aryans, and Egyptian sources mention a rapid conquest. While the majority of the Hyksos are thought to have been Semitic, the Hyksos are usually believed to have contained Indo-Europeans and Hurrians among the leadership. According to William L. Ochsenwald, is certain that the Hyksos contained Hurrians who were under Indo-Aryan rule and influence. Claude Frédéric-Armand Schaeffer states that the Hyksos were related to the Hurrians and the Mitanni. While the earliest names of Hyksos rulers are Semitic, names of later Hyksos rulers have been identified as having Indo-Aryan, Hurrian or uncertain etymologies. These names are associated with the second wave of Hyksos invasion in the 17th century BC, which was composed of a mixed group of well organized warriors that were different from the earlier Asiatic Hyksos princes that arrived in Egypt in the 18th century BC. John Bright cites this as evidence that there might have been an Indo-Aryan element among the Hyksos. Philip Khuri Hitti wrote that the Hyksos were a mixed group which in addition to Semites included Hurrians, Hittites, Mitanni and Habiru. Hitti connected the arrival of the Hyksos with the Indo-European migrations at the time, and cites the introduction of the horse and the chariot by them to Egypt as evidence of their Indo-European connections. In any regards, the Indo-Europeans were few in number and rapidly became assimilated into the Semitic majority, which explains why only small traces of their separate linguistic identity survive. \n\nSince the early 20th century, the possibility of Hurrian, and particularly Indo-European influences among the Hyksos, has been hotly contested by non-European scholars. This rejection gained currency after World War II as a reaction against Nazi antisemitism and racial theories. Scholars rejecting Hurrian and Indo-European influences among the Hyksos typically pointed out that the majority of Hyksos names were Semitic, that there is a lack of archaeological evidence suggesting an large-scale invasion of Egypt from Syria during the arrival of the Hyksos, and chronologies which place the rise of the Hurrians before the emergence of the Hyksos. Proponents of this theory include John Van Seters and J. R. Kupper. Martin Bernal states that although he admires the political motives of those that deny Hurrian and Indo-European influences among the Hyksos, the evidence indicates that they are wrong.\n\nTraditionally, only the Fifteenth Dynasty rulers are called \"Hyksos\". The Greek name \"Hyksos\" was coined by Manetho to identify the Fifteenth Dynasty of Asiatic rulers of northern Egypt. In Egyptian Hyksos means \"ruler(s) of foreign countries\", however, Josephus mistranslated Hyksos as \"Shepherd Kings\".\n\nBy around 1700 BC, Egypt was fragmenting politically, with local kingdoms springing up in the northeastern delta area. One of these was that of King Nehesy, whose capital was at Avaris; he ruled over a population consisting largely of Syro-Canaanites who had settled in the area during the 12th Dynasty, and who were probably mainly soldiers, sailors, shipbuilders and workmen. His dynasty was probably replaced by a West-Semitic-speaking Syro-Canaanite dynasty that formed the basis of the later Hyksos kingdom, able to spread southwards because of the unstable political situation while aided by \"an army, ships, and foreign connections.\" \n\nThe earlier Fourteenth Dynasty of Egypt had been West Asian and Semitic-speaking; however, its pharaohs did not style themselves \"Hyksos\", and they seem to have been vassals of the Thirteenth Dynasty who oversaw a community of Asiatic merchants and shepherds who had been granted land in the Nile Delta. The Hyksos, by contrast, were largely Amoritic invaders who, capitalizing on a weak moment in Egypt's history, managed to conquer the entire country briefly as far south as Thebes (under Khyan, ca. 1582 BC).\n\nThe Hyksos had Canaanite names, as seen in those with names from ancient Semitic religion such as Anat or Baal. Several of their pharaohs did in fact adopt the Egyptian title \"hekw chasut\" (foreign overlords) for themselves, along with Egyptian throne names. They introduced new tools of warfare into Egypt, most notably the composite bow and the horse-drawn chariot.\n\nThe names, the order, and even the total number of the Fifteenth Dynasty rulers are not known with full certainty. The names appear in hieroglyphs on monuments and small objects such as jar lids and scarabs. In those instances in which \"Prenomen\" and \"Nomen\" do not occur together on the same object, there is no certainty that the names belong together as the two names of a single person. The Danish Egyptologist Kim Ryholt sums up the complex situation by stating that \"there are only vague indications of the origin of the Fifteenth Dynasty\" and concurring that the small number of surviving names of the Fifteenth Dynasty are \"too few to allow for general conclusions\" about the Hyksos' background in his 1997 study of the Second Intermediate Period. Furthermore, Ryholt stresses that\n\nThe suspected rulers for the Fifteenth Dynasty are:\nManetho's history of Egypt is known only through the works of others, such as \"Against Apion\" by Flavius Josephus. These sources do not list the names of the six rulers in the same order. To complicate matters further, the spellings are so distorted that they are useless for chronological purposes; there is no close or obvious connection between the bulk of these names—\"Salitis\", \"Beon\" or \"Bnon\", \"Apachnan\" or \"Pachnan\", \"Annas\" or \"Staan\", \"Apophis\", \"Assis\" or \"Archles\"—and the Egyptian names that appear on scarabs and other objects. The Turin king list affirms there were six Hyksos rulers, but only four of them are clearly attested as Hyksos kings from the surviving archaeological or textual records: 1. Sakir-Har, 2. Khyan, 3. Apophis and 4. Khamudi.\n\nKhyan and Apophis are by far the best attested kings of this dynasty, whereas Sakir-Har is attested by only a single doorjamb from Avaris that bears his royal titulary. Khamudi is named as the last Hyksos king on a fragment from the Turin Canon. The hieroglyphic names of these Fifteenth Dynasty rulers exist on monuments, scarabs, and other objects.\n\nTwo Hyksos pharaohs remain unknown. Many scholars have suggested that they were Maaibre Sheshi, Aper-Anath, Samuqenu, Sekhaenre Yakbim or Meruserre Yaqub-Har (who are all attested by seals or scarabs in the Delta region) but, thus far, all that is certain is that they were Asiatic kings in the Egypt's Delta region. They could be either the remaining two Hyksos kings or were members of the previous Fourteenth Dynasty at Xois.\n\nThe Hyksos kingdom was centered in the eastern Nile Delta and Middle Egypt and was limited in size, never extending south into Upper Egypt, which was under the control of Theban-based rulers, except briefly, for about three years, at the end of Khyan's reign and the beginning of Aphophis'. The Hyksos Fifteenth Dynasty rulers established their capital and seat of government at Avaris.\n\nThe independent native rulers in Thebes do seem, however, to have reached a practical \"modus vivendi\" with the later Hyksos rulers. This included transit rights through Hyksos-controlled Middle and Lower Egypt and pasturage rights in the fertile Delta. One text, the \"Carnarvon Tablet I\", relates the misgivings of the Theban ruler's council of advisors when Kamose proposed moving against the Hyksos, who he claimed were a humiliating stain upon the holy land of Egypt. The councilors clearly did not wish to disturb the status quo:\n\nIt would appear as though Hyksos administration was accepted in most quarters, if not actually supported by many of their northern Egyptian subjects.\n\nNot until the beginning of the Theban wars of liberation during the Seventeenth Dynasty are Theban wares again found in the Faiyum. Some texts indicate that while the Hyksos controlled the delta region administratively, the Thebans were too busy mining gold and making money off the Red Sea trade to care. Lower Egypt and Thebes functioned autonomously, and shared limited contact with each other.\n\nScholars have taken the increasing use of scarabs and the adoption of some Egyptian forms of art by the Fifteenth Dynasty Hyksos kings and their wide distribution as an indication of their becoming progressively Egyptianized. The Hyksos used Egyptian titles associated with traditional Egyptian kingship, and took the Egyptian god Set to represent their own titulary deity. The native Egyptians viewed the Hyksos as non-Egyptian \"invaders\". When they were eventually driven out of Egypt, all traces of their occupation were erased. \n\nNo accounts survive recording the history of the period from the Hyksos perspective, only that of the native Egyptians who evicted the occupiers, in this case the rulers of the Eighteenth Dynasty who were the direct successor of the Theban Seventeenth Dynasty. It was the latter who started and led a sustained war against the Hyksos. Some think that the native kings from Thebes had an incentive to demonize the Asiatic rulers in the North, thus accounting for the destruction of their monuments. Scholars such as John A. Wilson found that the description of the Hyksos as overpowering, irreligious foreign rulers had support from other sources.\n\nThe revolt which drove the Hyksos from Upper Egypt began in the closing years of the Seventeenth Dynasty at Thebes. Later New Kingdom literary tradition has brought one of these Theban kings, Seqenenre Tao, into contact with his Hyksos contemporary in the north, Apepi (also known as Apophis). The tradition took the form of a tale in which the Hyksos king Apepi sent a messenger to Seqenenre in Thebes to demand that the Theban sport of harpooning hippopotami be done away with; his excuse was that the noise of these beasts was such that he was unable to sleep in faraway Avaris. The real reason was probably that their main god was Set, who was represented as part man, part hippopotamus. Jan Assmann argues that because the Ancient Egyptians could never conceive of a \"lonely\" god lacking personality, Set the desert god, who was worshipped exclusively according to the tale, represented a manifestation of evil. Perhaps the only historical information that can be gleaned from the tale is that Egypt was a divided land, the area of direct Hyksos control being in the north, but the whole of Egypt possibly paying tribute to the Hyksos kings.\n\nSeqenenre participated in active diplomatic posturing, which probably consisted of more than simply exchanging insults with the Asiatic ruler in the North. He seems to have led military skirmishes against the Hyksos, and judging by the vicious head wounds on his mummy in the Egyptian Museum in Cairo, he may have died during one of them. His son and successor, Kamose, the last ruler of the Seventeenth Dynasty at Thebes, is credited with the first significant victories in the Theban-led war against the Hyksos.\n\nKamose sailed north from Thebes at the head of his army in his third regnal year. He surprised and overran the southernmost garrison of the Hyksos at Nefrusy, just north of Cusae (near modern Asyut), and Kamose then led his army as far north as the neighborhood of Avaris itself. Though the city was not taken, the fields around it were devastated by the Thebans. A second stele discovered at Thebes continues the account of the war broken off on the Carnarvon Tablet I, and mentions the interception and capture of a courier bearing a message from Apepi at Avaris to his ally, the ruler of the Kingdom of Kush (modern Sudan), requesting the latter's urgent support against the threat posed by Kamose's activities against both their kingdoms. Kamose promptly ordered a detachment of his troops to occupy the Bahariya Oasis in the Libyan Desert to control and block the desert route to the south. Kamose, called \"the Strong,\" then sailed back up the Nile to Thebes for a joyous victory celebration, after what was probably not much more than a surprise spoiling raid in force that caught the Hyksos off guard. His Year Three is the only date attested for Kamose and he may have died shortly after the battle from wounds.\n\nBy the end of the reign of Apepi, perhaps the second-to-last Hyksos king of the Fifteenth Dynasty, the Hyksos had been routed from Middle Egypt and had retreated northward and regrouped in the vicinity of the entrance of the Faiyum at Atfih. This Fifteenth Dynasty pharaoh had outlived his first Egyptian contemporary, Seqenenra Tao II, and was still on the throne (albeit of a much reduced kingdom) at the end of Kamose's reign. The last Hyksos ruler of the Fifteenth Dynasty, Khamudi, undoubtedly had a relatively short reign that fell within the first half of the reign of Ahmose I, Kamose's successor and the founder of the Eighteenth Dynasty.\n\nAhmose I, who is regarded as the first pharaoh of the Eighteenth Dynasty of Egypt may have been on the Theban throne for some time before he resumed the war against the Hyksos.\n\nThe details of his military campaigns are taken from the account on the walls of the tomb of Ahmose, son of Ebana, a soldier from El-Kab, a town in southern Upper Egypt, whose father had served under Seqenenra Tao, and whose family had long been nomarchs of the districts. It seems that several campaigns against the stronghold at Avaris were needed before the Hyksos were finally dislodged and driven from Lower Egypt. When this occurred is not known with certainty. Some authorities place the expulsion as early as Ahmose's fourth year, while Donald B. Redford, whose chronological structure has been adopted here, places it as late as the king's fifteenth year. The Ahmose who left the inscription states that he followed on foot as his King Ahmose rode to war in his chariot (the first mention of the use of the horse and chariot by the Egyptians); in the fighting around Avaris he captured prisoners and carried off several hands (as proof of slain enemies), which when reported to the royal herald resulted in his being awarded the \"Gold of Valor\" on three separate occasions. The actual fall of Avaris is only briefly mentioned: \"Then Avaris was despoiled. Then I carried off spoil from there: one man, three women, a total of four persons. Then his majesty gave them to me to be slaves.\"\n\nAfter the fall of Avaris, the fleeing Hyksos were pursued by the Egyptian army across northern Sinai Peninsula and into the southern Levant. Here, in the Negev desert between Rafah and Gaza, the fortified town of Sharuhen was reduced after, according to the soldier from El-Kab, a long three-year siege operation. How soon after the sack of Avaris this Asiatic campaign took place is uncertain. One can reasonably conclude that the thrust into southern Canaan probably followed the Hyksos' eviction from Avaris fairly closely, but, given a period of protracted struggle before Avaris fell and possibly more than one season of campaigning before the Hyksos were shut up in Sharuhen, the chronological sequence must remain uncertain.\n\nThe Hyksos continued to play a role in Egyptian literature as a synonym for \"Asiatic\" down to Hellenistic times. The term was frequently evoked against such groups as the Semites settled in Aswan or the delta, and this may have led the Egyptian priest and historian Manetho (or Ptolemaeus the Mendesian) to identify the coming of the Hyksos with the sojourn in Egypt of Joseph and his brothers, and led to some authors identifying the expulsion of the Hyksos with the Exodus. For instance, Justin Martyr says:\nWith the chaos at the end of the 19th Dynasty, the first pharaohs of the 20th Dynasty in the Elephantine Stele and the Harris Papyrus reinvigorated an anti-Hyksos stance to strengthen their nativist reaction towards the Asiatic settlers of the north, who may again have been expelled from the country. Setnakht, the founder of the 20th Dynasty, records in a Year 2 stela from Elephantine that he defeated and expelled a large force of Asiatics who had invaded Egypt during the chaos between the end of Twosret's reign and the beginning of the 20th Dynasty and captured much of their stolen gold and silver booty.\n\nThe story of the Hyksos was known to the Greeks, who attempted to identify it within their own mythology with the expulsion from Egypt of Belos (Baal?) and the daughters of Danaos, associated with the origin of the Argive Dynasty.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2168232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2168232", "title": "ISO 3166-2:IE", "text": "ISO 3166-2:IE\n\nISO 3166-2:IE is the entry for Ireland in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Ireland, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for two levels of subdivisions:\n\nThe 26 counties are traditional counties, which are different from the first-level administrative subdivisions of Ireland.\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Ireland. The second part is one or two letters. For the counties, the letters are generally the same as those currently used in vehicle registration plates, with the following exceptions:\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\nISO 639-1 codes are used to represent subdivision names in the following administrative languages:\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\nThe following changes to the entry have been announced in newsletters by the ISO 3166/MA since the first publication of ISO 3166-2 in 1998:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57152889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57152889", "title": "Index of weather extremes in Australia articles", "text": "Index of weather extremes in Australia articles\n\nAustralia is impacted by all forms of major weather events and extremes.\n\nBelow is an index of relevant articles.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22634665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22634665", "title": "Jabal Sawda", "text": "Jabal Sawda\n\nJabal Sawda ( \"\", )is a peak located in Saudi Arabia, with an elevation of around .\n\nMost authorities claim that the peak, with a questioned elevation of 3,133 m, is the highest point in Saudi Arabia, but SRTM data indicates an elevation of 2,985 m, with higher elevations elsewhere in the country.\n\nAlso known as Mount Souda in Abha (جبل السودة في ابها) is a mountain of Saudi Arabia, located in the Hejaz Mountains at Coordinates 18°16'02\"N and 42°22'05\"E.\n\nThe village of Al Souda is located nearby. That town is a tourist center and has a cable car to the top of the mountain.\n\n"}
{"id": "2394123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2394123", "title": "Județ", "text": "Județ\n\nA județ (, plural județe ) is an administrative division in Romania, and was also used from 1940 to 1947 in the Moldavian Soviet Socialist Republic and from 1998 to 2003 in Moldova.\n\n\"Județ\" translates into English as \"jurisdiction\", but is commonly rendered as county (the preferred term for that being \"comitat\" in Romanian).\n\nThere are 41 \"județe\" in Romania, divided into municipii (municipalities), \"orașe\" (cities) and \"comune\" (communes). Each \"județ\" has a county seat (\"reședință de județ\") which serves as its administrative capital; this designation usually belongs to the largest and most developed city in the respective county. The central government is represented by one prefect in every \"județ\".\n\nIn the Romanian Principalities, the \"județ\" was an office with administrative and judicial functions, corresponding to both judge and mayor. The word is etymologically rooted in the Latin \"judicium\", and is therefore cognate to other administrative institutions like the Sardinian \"giudicati\", or terms like \"jurisdiction\" and \"judge\".\n\nIn Romanian, the term \"județ\" does not take an initial capital unless it is the first word of a sentence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "204899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204899", "title": "Khorat Plateau", "text": "Khorat Plateau\n\nThe Khorat Plateau () is a plateau in the northeastern Isan region of Thailand. The plateau forms a natural region, named after the short form of Nakhon Ratchasima, a historical barrier controlling access to and from the area.\n\nThe average elevation is 200 m and it covers an area of about 155,000 km². The saucer-shaped plateau is divided by a range of hills called the Phu Phan Mountains into two basins: the northern Sakhon Nakhon Basin, and the southern Khorat Basin. The plateau is tilted towards the southeast, and drained by the Mun and Chi Rivers, tributaries to the Mekong that forms the northeastern boundary of the area. It is separated from central Thailand by the Phetchabun Mountains and the Dong Phaya Yen Mountains in the west, the Sankamphaeng Range in the southwest and by the Dângrêk Mountains in the south, all of which historically made access to the plateau difficult.\n\nThese mountains together with the Truong Son Range in the northeast catch a lot of the rainfall, so the southwest monsoon has much lower intensity than in other regions—the mean annual rainfall in Nakhon Ratchasima is about 1,150 mm, compared with 1,500 mm in central Thailand. The difference between the dry and wet seasons is much greater, which makes the area less optimal for rice. The portion known as Tung Kula Rong Hai was once exceptionally arid.\n\nThe plateau uplifted from an extensive plain composed of remnants of the Cimmerian microcontinent, and terranes such as the Shan–Thai Terrane, either late in the Pleistocene or early in the Holocene Epoch, approximately Year 1 of the Holocene calendar. Much of the surface of the plateau was once classified as laterite, and layers that can easily be cut into brick-shaped blocks are still so called, but the classification of soils as various types of oxisols is more useful for agriculture. Oxisols of the type called rhodic ferralsols, or Yasothon soils, formed under humid tropical conditions in the early Tertiary. When portions of the plain uplifted as a plateau, these relict soils, characterized by a bright red color, wound up on uplands in a great semicircle around the southern rim. These soils overlie associated gravel horizons cleared of sand by field termites, in a prolonged and still on-going process of bioturbation. Xanthic ferralsols of the Khorat and Ubon Series, characterized by a pale yellow to brown color, developed in midlands in processes still under investigation, as are those forming lowland soils resembling European brown soils.\n\nMany prehistoric Thailand sites are located on the plateau, with some bronze relics of the Dong Son culture having been found. The World Heritage Ban Chiang archaeological site, discovered in 1966, yielded evidence of bronze making beginning c. 2000 BCE, but lacking evidence of weaponry so often associated with the Bronze Age in Europe and the rest of the world. The site appears to have once been part of a broader culture, until abandoned c. 200 CE, not to be resettled until the early-19th century. None Nok Tha in the Phu Wiang District of Khon Kaen yielded evidence of an Iron Age settlement dating from about 1420 to 50 BCE.\n\nThe region was once under the suzerainty of the Dvaravati Kingdom, and later under the Khmer Empire. It is dotted with the ruins of Khmer resthouses located about 25 km apart, a comfortable day's walk, along the Khmer highways. The chapels were not just places of rest, but also were hospices and libraries, and typically included a baray (pond).\nThough Higham states, \"...we remain largely unaware of the relationships between sites and the presence or otherwise of states on the Khorat plateau\" during the 7th to 11th centuries. Muang Sema and Muang Fa Daet are notable though for their religious structures, including sema stones at Muang Fa Daet.\n\nThere is a paucity of information from the centuries known as the Dark ages of Cambodia, but the plateau seems to have been largely depopulated. In 1718, the first Lao muang in the Chi valley—and in fact anywhere in the interior of the Khorat Plateau—was founded at Suwannaphum District, in present-day Roi Et Province, by an official in the service of King Nokasad of the Kingdom of Champasak.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8838023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8838023", "title": "Line marker", "text": "Line marker\n\nIn cave (and occasionally wreck) diving, line markers are used for orientation as a visual and tactile reference on a permanent guideline. Directional markers (commonly a notched acute isosceles triangle in basic outline), are also known as line arrows or Dorff arrows, and point the way to an exit. Line arrows may mark the location of a \"jump\" location in a cave when two are placed adjacent to each other. Two adjacent arrows facing away from each other, mark a point in the cave where the diver is equidistant from two exits. Arrow direction can be identified by feel in low visibility.\n\nNon-directional markers (\"cookies\") are purely personal markers that mark specific spots, or the direction of one's chosen exit at line intersections where there are options. Their shape does not provide a tactile indication of direction as this could cause confusion in low visibility. One important reason to be adequately trained before cave diving is that incorrect marking can confuse and fatally endanger not only oneself, but also other divers.\n\nThe line arrow was invented by Lewis Holzendorf and developed by Forrest Wilson at the Cave diving NSS workshop, inspired by Sheck Exley and other cave diving pioneers, and later, a few hundreds of the handmade markers were sold through Branford Dive Center in North Florida. Soon they became very popular and today are commonly used by underwater cave explorers.\n\nLine markers are generally used on permanent guidelines to provide critical information to divers following the line. The slots and notches provided are used to wrap the line to secure the marker in place. A simple passage of the line through the enlarged area at the base of the two slots will allow the marker to slide along the line, or even fall off if brushed by a diver. To more securely fasten the marker, an extra wrap may be added at each slot. The basic function of these markers is fairly consistent internationally, but procedures may differ by region, and between teams. The protocol for placement and removal should be well understood by the members of a specific team. Temporary line markers are only for the use of the team who placed them and are removed during exit to avoid littering a cave system with irrelevant and potentially confusing information.\n\nCave markers may be carried on a short length of bungee with a knot at one end and a clip at the other, but other methods are also used. Reasonable security and easy access are all that is required.\n\nLine arrows are used to indicate the direction along the line to the nearest air source. In cave systems with only one opening, line arrows will always indicate the route back to the entry, but in cave systems with multiple openings, they may not point to the entry used by the dive team, and in some cases this may not be a usable exit.\n\nSome popular cave diving systems have permanent line arrows at regular intervals pointing to the nearest exit, and may be marked with a distance to the exit. Permanent arrows may also be used to identify secondary passages and midpoints in a cave.\n\nLine arrows are placed to help the divers to establish the direction they come from, when they later need to find the way out, but should not alter the general navigation information of the system, so line arrows are added only where they cannot cause other groups to become confused about the direction to the nearest air source. An arrow would be added at the point of attachment of a reel line when tying off to explore new areas, and may be removed after return and removal of the temporary line. If the place is to be marked for future reference, the arrow may be left in place.\n\nThe original non-directional markers in cave diving were clothes pegs, but the circular plastic \"cookies\" were developed later, based on the successful line-arrow design, and are more secure when placed on a guideline. They can be used to mark reference points, to distinguish lines at an intersection, or can be placed by each member of a team on a jump or gap line to identify who is still on the line if the team gets separated. As they are commonly used to identify the presence of a diver, they generally have some kind of personal identification, such as initials or drawings and may have notches, or holes added so they can be identified by feel. \n\nA non-directional marker indicates the presence of a diver or team beyond a point and is mainly useful for that team. They may be used to indicate the direction the team came from and intend to exit by when the intersection is already marked by arrows, particularly if there are alternatives available which the team does not want to use. To avoid confusing other divers, these temporary markers are removed on the way out.\n\nA hybrid marker, also known as a referencing exit marker or REM, is a more recently developed line marker used as a directional marker by the diver placing it, and seen as a cookie by others. They are rectangular with slots like the arrow and cookie forms for attachment to a line, and have a relatively large blank space on one end to add identification on one side and to write on the other side. Referencing exit markers are asymmetrical so can be used to show the direction which the diver came from. They are personal markers, and should not be used by others to judge the suitability of a route as the practicability of an exit may depend on the size of the diver and the equipment carried.\n\nOriginally hand made from available materials. Commercially marketed line markers are commonly injection-moulded plastic and are available in a few colours. Small variations in size and shape allow personal markers to be identified more easily, and unique markings may be added by the user.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13343157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13343157", "title": "List of Zimbabwean flags", "text": "List of Zimbabwean flags\n\nThis is a list of flags used in Zimbabwe (Africa) between 1980 and the present date. For flags before 1980 see \"List of Rhodesian flags\".\n"}
{"id": "4919763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4919763", "title": "List of airports in the Northern Mariana Islands", "text": "List of airports in the Northern Mariana Islands\n\nThis is a list of airports in the Northern Mariana Islands (a U.S. Commonwealth), grouped by type and sorted by location. It contains all public-use and military airports. Some private-use and former airports may be included where notable, such as airports that used to be public-use, those with commercial enplanements recorded by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) or airports assigned an International Air Transport Association (IATA) airport code.\n\n\nFederal Aviation Administration (FAA):\n\nRegional:\n\nInternational:\n\nOther sites used as a reference when compiling and updating this list:\n"}
{"id": "23216046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23216046", "title": "List of cities with the most high-rise buildings", "text": "List of cities with the most high-rise buildings\n\nThis is a list of cities with the most high-rise buildings. A high-rise is defined as a structure at least or 12 stories tall. Cities with 100 or more high-rise buildings are listed here.\n\nnote1: in many cities of the list, the information is not always complete and up-to-date. This applies to the cities of China, Brazil and the Russian Federation.\n\nNote2: this list contains data on high-rise buildings within the city limits (with the exception of Metro Manila). For the list of agglomerations with the largest number of high-rise buildings, an additional Wikipedia page is needed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58568648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58568648", "title": "List of countries by tariff rate", "text": "List of countries by tariff rate\n\nThe following list sorts countries according to their weighted mean applied import duty on all products. Import duty refers to taxes levied on imported goods, capital and services. The level of customs duties is a direct indicator of the openness of an economy to world trade. However, there may also be import barriers that are not based on the levy of duties. All data is from the world bank.\n\nImport duties are regarded as a variation of protectionism. The average weighted import duty in these important economic areas is the following percentage: People's Republic of China: 3.54%, Japan: 2.55%, European Union: 1.96% and the United States: 1.67%. The respective import duty does not apply to countries with which free trade agreements have been concluded. \n"}
{"id": "56069245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56069245", "title": "List of films set in Vienna", "text": "List of films set in Vienna\n\nThis is a list of films set in Vienna. Due to Vienna's rich musical heritage, many of the movies set there are about music or have a strong musical element in the storyline.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31645610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31645610", "title": "List of football clubs in Saint Pierre and Miquelon", "text": "List of football clubs in Saint Pierre and Miquelon\n\nThis is a list of football (soccer) clubs in Saint Pierre and Miquelon.\n\n"}
{"id": "51608194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51608194", "title": "List of lighthouses in Benin", "text": "List of lighthouses in Benin\n\nThis is a list of lighthouses in Benin.\n\n"}
{"id": "30966937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30966937", "title": "List of people from Guam", "text": "List of people from Guam\n\nNumerous notable people have lived in or come from Guam.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11486139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11486139", "title": "List of towns and cities with 100,000 or more inhabitants/cityname: P", "text": "List of towns and cities with 100,000 or more inhabitants/cityname: P\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35169598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35169598", "title": "Lists of mines in Asia", "text": "Lists of mines in Asia\n\nThe following are lists of mines in Asia.\n\n"}
{"id": "59050048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59050048", "title": "Medigeshi", "text": "Medigeshi\n\nMedigeshi or Midigeshi is a village in Madhugiri Taluk, Tumkur district in Karnataka, India. It has a population of 2,649 according to 2011 census. The village has a fort which is a tourist attraction.\n"}
{"id": "7433393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7433393", "title": "Municipalities of Croatia", "text": "Municipalities of Croatia\n\nMunicipalities in Croatia (; plural: \"općine\") are the second lowest administrative unit of government in the country, and along with cities and towns (\"grad\", plural: \"gradovi\") they form the second level of administrative subdisivion, after counties.\n\nThough equal in powers and administrative bodies, municipalities and towns differ in that municipalities are usually more likely to consist of a collection of villages in rural or suburban areas, whereas towns are more likely to cover urbanised areas. Croatian law defines municipalities as local self-government units which are established, in an area where several inhabited settlements represent a natural, economic and social entity, related to one other by the common interests of the area's population.\n\nAs of 2017, the 21 counties of Croatia are subdivided into 128 towns and 428 municipalities.\n\nMunicipalities, within their self-governing scope of activities, perform the tasks of local significance, which directly fulfil the citizens’ needs, and which were not assigned to the state bodies by the Constitution or law, and in particular affairs related to the organization of localities and housing, zoning and planning, public utilities, child care, social welfare, primary health services, education and primary schools, culture, physical education and sports, customer protection, protection and improvement of the environment, fire protection and civil defence, local transport.\n\nMunicipal council (\"općinsko vijeće\") is the representative body of citizens and the body of local self-government. The councillors are elected for a four-year term on the basis of universal suffrage in direct elections by secret ballot using proportional system with d'Hondt method. The executive head of the municipality is the municipality president (or head of the municipality, \"općinski načelnik\"), also elected in direct elections for a four-year term, by majoritarian vote (two-round system) (the deputy president is elected together with the president). He/She (with the deputy president) can be recalled by a referendum. Municipalities have administrative departments as offices of municipal administration (in small municipalities there is unique administrative department) chaired by the heads (principals). They are appointed by the municipal president on the basis of a public competition. \nCroatian municipalities are administratively subdivided into \"local committee areas\" (\"mjesni odbori\") with elected councils.\n\n, there are 428 municipalities in Croatia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32665664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32665664", "title": "National Center for Geographic Information and Analysis", "text": "National Center for Geographic Information and Analysis\n\nThe National Center for Geographic Information and Analysis (NCGIA) was founded in 1988 and hosted at three member campuses: The University of California, Santa Barbara; the State University of New York at Buffalo; and the University of Maine.\n\nThe center was founded after receiving a $5 million grant from the National Science Foundation. Ron Abler—then at NSF—described the rationale for the NCGIA and compared it to corresponding efforts in the UK. Notable faculty involved with the NCGIA include Michael Goodchild, Michael Batty, David Mark, A. Stewart Fotheringham, Andrew Frank, Helen Couclelis, Luc Anselin, Waldo R. Tobler amongst others. David William Rhind and Mike Goodchild compare later US and the UK approach.\n\nThe research plan was organized along so-called Research Initiatives, which generally started and ended with \"specialist meetings\", where interdisciplinary teams discussed pressing research issues. Often a publication followed:\n\n\n\nIn 1992 the list of publications resulting from these research initiatives and other efforts of the NCGIA were published in the International Journal of Geographical Information Systems.\n\nThe NCGIA produces a Core Curriculum for teaching Geographic Information Systems\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2272402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2272402", "title": "Natural region", "text": "Natural region\n\nA natural region is a basic geographic unit. Usually it is a region which is distinguished by its common natural features of geography, geology, and climate. \n\nFrom the ecological point of view, the naturally occurring flora and fauna of the region are likely to be influenced by its geographical and geological factors, such as soil and water availability, in a significant manner. Thus most natural regions are homogeneous ecosystems. Human impact can be an important factor in the shaping and destiny of a particular natural region.\nThere are 11 major regions in the world.\n\nThe concept \"natural region\" may refer to a large, poor area, or to a large basic geographical unit, like the vast boreal forest region. The term may also be used generically, like in alpine tundra, or specifically to refer to a particular place.\n\nThe term is particularly useful where there is no corresponding or coterminous official region. The Fens of eastern England, the Thai highlands, and the Pays de Bray in Normandy, are examples of this. Others might include regions with particular geological characteristics, like badlands, such as the Bardenas Reales, an upland massif of acidic rock, or The Burren, in Ireland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5222186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5222186", "title": "Ohel (grave)", "text": "Ohel (grave)\n\nOhel (; plural: ohelim, literally, \"tent\") is a structure built around a Jewish grave as a sign of prominence of the deceased. \"Ohelim\" cover the graves of some (but not all) Hasidic Rebbes, important rabbis, tzadikim, prominent Jewish community leaders, and biblical figures. Typically a small masonry building, an \"ohel\" may include room for visitors to pray, meditate, and light candles in honor of the deceased.\n\nAccording to Krajewska, the tradition of covering a grave with an \"ohel\" may be based on the Cave of the Patriarchs, in which Abraham buried Sarah. Nolan Menachemson suggests that the Hasidic tradition of covering the graves of Rebbes with an \"ohel\" derives from the \"Ohel Moed\" (\"Tent of Meeting\") in which Moses communicated with God during the Israelites' travels in the desert.\n\n\"Ohelim\" are usually simple masonry structures. They may include one or two windows. In prewar Poland, the \"ohel\" of a Rebbe was located close by the Hasidic court, and was big enough to accommodate a minyan of ten men beside the grave.\n\nThe ohel of the Lubavitcher Rebbes in Queens, New York, is unusual in that it does not have a roof. This allows kohanim to visit the graves without coming into contact with impurity from the dead.\n\nIn the case of a Hasidic Rebbe, the \"ohel\" is a place for visitors to pray, meditate, write \"kvitelach\" (petitionary prayer notes), and light candles in honor of the deceased. \"Ohelim\" of Hasidic Rebbes, as well as the tombs of tzadikim venerated by Moroccan Jews, serve as year-round pilgrimage sites, with the biggest influx of visitors coming on the Rebbe's or tzadik's Yom Hillula (anniversary of death).\n\nOne or more graves may be included in the same \"ohel\". Notable \"ohelim\" include:\n\n\n\nBiblical figures and Mishnaic and Talmudic sages are typically buried in \"ohelim\":\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16603439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16603439", "title": "Outline of Europe", "text": "Outline of Europe\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Europe.\n\n\nList of European countries\n\nList of cities in Europe\n\nList of villages in Europe by country\n\n\nHistory of Europe\n\n\n\nCulture of Europe\n\n\n\nEconomy of Europe\n\n\n\n\nPolitics of Europe\n\nEurope\n\n"}
{"id": "4635545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4635545", "title": "Paleolimnology", "text": "Paleolimnology\n\nPaleolimnology (=old, \"limne\"=lake, \"logos\"=study) is a scientific subdiscipline closely related to both limnology and paleoecology. Palaeolimnological studies are concerned with reconstructing the paleoenvironments of inland waters (lakes and streams; freshwater, brackish, or saline) – and especially changes associated with such events as climatic change, human impacts (e.g., eutrophication, or acidification), and internal ontogenic processes.\n\nPaleolimnological studies are commonly based on meticulous analyses of sediment cores, including the physical, chemical and mineralogical properties of sediments, and diverse biological records (e.g., fossil diatoms, cladocera, ostracodes, molluscs, pollen, pigments, or chironomids). One of the primary sources for recent paleolimnological research is the Journal of Paleolimnology.\n\nMost early paleolimnological studies focused especially on the biological productivity of lakes, and the role of internal lake processes in directing lake development. Although Einar Naumann had speculated that the productivity of lakes should gradually decrease due to leaching of catchment soils, August Thienemann suggested that the reverse process likely occurred. Early midge records seemed to support Thienemann's view.\n\nHutchinson & Wollack suggested that following an initial oligotrophic stage lakes would achieve and maintain a trophic equilibrium. They also stressed parallels between the early development of lake communities, and the sigmoid growth phase of animal communities – implying that the apparent early developmental processes in lakes were dominated by colonization effects, and lags due to the limited reproductive potential of the colonising organisms.\n\nIn a classic paper, Raymond Lindeman outlined a hypothetical developmental sequence, with lakes progressively developing through oligotrophic, mesotrophic, and eutrophic stages, before senescing to a dystrophic stage and filling completely with sediment. A climax forest community would eventually be established on the peaty fill of the former lake basin. These ideas were further elaborated by Ed Deevey, who suggested that lake development was dominated by a process of morphometric eutrophication. As the hypolimnion of lakes gradually filled with sediments, oxygen depletion would promote the release of iron-bound phosphorus to the overlying water. This process of internal fertilization would stimulate biological productivity, further accelerating the in-filling process.\n\nDeevey and Lindemann's ideas were widely, if uncritically, accepted. Although these ideas are still widely held by some limnologists, they were effectively refuted in 1957 by Deevey's student Daniel A. Livingstone. Mel Whiteside also criticized Deevey and Lindemann's proposal, and palaeolimnologists now consider that a host of external factors are equally or more important as regulators of lake development and productivity. Indeed, late-glacial climatic oscillations (e.g., the Younger Dryas) appear to have been accompanied by parallel changes in productivity, illustrating that 1) lake development is not a unidirectional process, and 2) climatic change can have a profound effect on lake communities.\n\nLimnology is study of inland water bodies including: lakes, streams, rivers, estuaries, wetlands and more.\n\nInterest in paleolimnology eventually shifted from esoteric questions of lake ontogeny to applied investigations of human impact. Torgny Wiederholm and Bill Warwick, for example, used chironomid fossils to assess the impacts of increased nutrient loading (anthropogenic eutrophication) on lake communities. Their studies reveal pronounced changes in the bottom fauna of North American and European lakes, a consequence of severe oxygen depletion in the eutrophied lakes.\n\nFrom 1980 to 1990 the primary focus of paleolimnologists efforts shifted to understanding the role of human impacts (acid rain) versus natural processes (e.g., soil leaching) as drivers of pH change in northern lakes. The pH-sensitivity of diatom communities had been recognised since at least the 1930s, when Friedrich Hustedt developed a classification for diatoms, based on their apparent pH preferences. Gunnar Nygaard subsequently developed a series of diatom pH indices. By calibrating these indices to pH, Jouko Meriläinen introduced the first diatom-pH transfer function. Using diatom and chrysophyte fossil records, research groups led by Rick Battarbee (UK), Ingemar Renberg (Sweden), Don Charles (US), John Kingston (US), and John Smol (Canada) were able to clearly demonstrate that many northern lakes had rapidly acidified, in parallel with increased industry and emissions. Although lakes also showed a tendency to acidify slightly during their early (late-glacial) history, the pH of most lakes had remained stable for several thousand years prior to their recent, anthropogenic acidification.\n\nIn recent years palaeolimnologists have recognised that climate is a dominant force in aquatic ecosystem processes, and have begun to use lacustrine records to reconstruct paleoclimates. Sensitive records of climate change have been developed from a variety of indicators including, for example, paleotemperature reconstructions derived from chironomid fossils, and palaeosalinity records inferred from diatoms.\n\nFreshwater macroinvertebrates (invertebrates that can be see by naked eye; > 0.25 mm) are a very diverse group of small animals present in rivers, streams, lakes and wetlands. These animals include crustaceans, insects, molluscs, annelids and arachnids. They comprise a functionally and taxonomically diverse group that plays an important role in linking the food web in the aquatic ecosystem. They serve as a main source of food for the fishes and they depend on different types of algae and bacteria for the food.\nMost aquatic macro-invertebrates are small while some are quite large such as freshwater crayfish. They are very sensitive to different physical and chemical conditions and respond to it accordingly due to their limited mobility. For example, their community will change when a pollutant enters into the water or due to the change of water quality. Therefore, the water body which is rich with a macro-invertebrate community can be used to provide an estimate of water body health \nMacro invertebrates termed \"benthos\" inhabit surfaces of vegetation, rocks and other aquatic sediments. They are widely distributed in the aquatic environment and present at a range of trophic levels. Most macroinvertebrates taxa are dependent on a range of abiotic factors and biotic factors and therefore community structure can be used to represent the local ecosystem. These factors may be the availability and quality of food, pH, temperature, salinity, land use pattern and water flow etc. These factors are interconnected and influence each other. For example, any change in the land use affects the riparian vegetation that may be increased or decreased which changes the inputs into the aquatic ecosystem, affecting the abundance and distribution of macroinvertebrate taxa. For all of these reasons, macroinvertabrates are considered as one of the best indicators of water quality.\n\nTaxonomic groups of macroinvertebrates vary in their tolerance to changes in the aquatic environment.\nImages of macroinvertebrates\nFreshwater Macroinvertebrates of NY\n\nMacroinvertebrateas are commonly and widely distributed in many types of water bodies and respond with a range of sensitivities to many kinds of stressors. They are commonly used for toxicity testing and ecological assessments in water bodies and many of them complete their life cycles in a single water body so they are exposed directly to physical, chemical, and biological stressors and they also integrate the long and short term changes. When a freshwater source is degraded, the most sensitive invertebrate species are lost initially, followed by species more tolerant to pollution.These species either sustain their existence or their number decreases in response to the change. \nMacro-invertebrates are an essential part of the food chain. Their strategies for feeding can be clustered into several \"functional feeding\" groups. For example, shedders feed on leaves and woody materials, some depends on the vegetation growing in the water body. Examples of shredders are amphipods, isopods, freshwater crayfish, and caddisfly larvae.\n\nPaleoclimatology (or the study of past climates) uses proxy data in order to relate elements collected in modern-day samples to suggest the climatic conditions of the past.\n\nSediment cores are one of the primary tools for studying paleolimnology because of the role in which lake and river sediments play in preserving biological information. Paleolimnologists collect sediment cores and observe various proxy indicators in order to reconstruct past limnology of an area. Some of these indicators include geochemical markers and isotopic data which are found within the various sections of the sediment core. In order to calibrate data, a group of around 40 or more calibration lakes are used to reconstruct what the conditions of a new core are likely to reflect. The use of these calibration lakes is necessary to identify dramatic differences in a newly collected core compared to normal variations which would be depicted in the calibration lakes. Through the use of sediment cores as a technique, paleolimnologists are able to use other proxies (such as pollen, charcoal, diatoms, chironomids, and other organic matter) in order to reconstruct the past climatic conditions of an area. Lake sediment cores in particular offer a more comprehensive analysis of an area because of the continual accumulation of sediment as well as other organic matter like pollen and charcoal.\n\nPollen and spores can be analyzed within a lab setting to determine the family, genus, or species which the pollen grains belong. The overall taxonomic assemblage of pollen types reflects the surrounding vegetation of the lake. Pollen analysis is a major field in paleoecology. A range of statistical and qualitative treatment of pollen records can be used to reconstruct past vegetation and climate.\n\nThe taxonomic assemblages of diatoms reflect many aspects of the lake temperature, chemical, and nutrient environment.\n\nOrganic matter may be characterized in terms of 1) amount (accumulation rate, reflecting productivity), 2) origin (aquatic or terrestrial determined from the C:N ratio), 3) carbon isotopic composition (reflecting plant photosynthetic pathways of C3 vs C4 plants, and reflecting drought and/or aquatic productivity), 4) nitrogen isotopic composition (reflecting sources of nitrogen and nitrogen cycling). There are a range of biomarkers widely used, as well as compound-specific isotopic analyses. Diagenesis is an important factor to consider in interpreting organic matter records.\n\nOne of the major factor that affects the flora and fauna of the earth is the change of climate at the local, regional and global scale. These changes are preserved over the period of time as a fossil record and through paleolimnological methods, these changes can be traced out and also helpful for the prediction of the future climate change. Chironomids are one of the best indicators of climate change. These are two winged flies and belongs to family Chironomidae with 500 to 15,000 species. Ecologically they are considered as bottom dwellers and are very responsive to any fluctuation in the surrounding environment. They are considered as a good indicator of salinity, water depth, stream flow, aquatic productivity, oxygen level, lake acidification, pollution, temperature, and overall ecosystem health. As the assemblage of chironomids is dependent on several environmental factors, they can be easily related to those changing factors using a transfer function to connect a particular group of organisms to a specific environmental variable.\n\nLake deposits have a rich diversity of fossilized insects that trace back to middle Paleozoic era and more abundance can be found in the Quaternary period.Among aquatic invertebrates, different families of aquatic fly larvae can be traced out in the lake sediments of Quaternary era. Among them, Chironomids are of greatest ecological importance due to their diverse habitat in the aquatic ecosystem, feeding habitat, important component in the food web and above all their usage as a plaeolimnological studies because their head capsule and feeding structures are fossilized in the lake sediments. Chironomids complete their larval stage in the water and its life cycle continues up to several years while adult life span is very short. They have an important role in the degradation of material in the aquatic ecosystem and serve as an important part of the food web during their whole life cycle.\n\nAccording to IPCC (2007) reports one of the vital aspect of environment is the continuous climate change due several factors over the period of time which is influential in shaping the biodiversity.\nMacroinvertebrates, especially chironomids have been considered as an important indicator of the climate change especially temperature due to their presence in the abundance in the lake sediment as a fossil. There is a strong correlation between the chironomids assemblage and the water temperature, lake depth, salinity and, nutrients of the lake.Lake water levels over the past time period can be inferred from the chironomids assemblage due to their correlation.It is due to the fact that climate change resulted in the water level change of the lake that is related to change in the pattern of chironomids distribution and abundance.Their strong correlation helps to build the information about the evaporation and precipitation in the past. Past climate change is reconstructed based on the paleolimnology with the help of different fossilized records especially the lake sediments that helps to find out the regional and local climate change. It is important to differentiate between the impacts that a lake store due to the regional and local level climate change. \n\nRecent studies in Arctic shows that biodiversity affect more due to the arctic warming than other associated factors like human alteration and acidification. In Himalayan region water bodies are not only affected by the anthropogenic disturbances but also impacted by the different types of pollutants that are transferred to this area over a longer distance.It is vital to understand all the associated factors acting on the aquatic biodiversity while analyzing the impact of climate change over the past years with the help of lake sediments. It is also important to consider that the impact and intensity of different changes due to climate change may have totally different affect on different ecosystems depending upon its sensitivity to that change \n\nThere are several factors that has been affecting the abundance and distribution pattern of Chironomids over the past years.Therefore, it is important to be careful while making interpretations from their fossil records.There are several debates for the last many years on the impact of temperature on their abundance and diversity along with other associated factors. For the correct interpretation of the fossil records, it is important to understand all the associated factors of an ecosystem.In order to understand the different forces that have been affecting the fossil data of lake, it important to reconstruct physical, chemical and the nutrient content of the lakes that actually shapes the communities.\nTheir distribution and abundance is highly influenced by the combination of human disturbance and change in the climate. Both of them influence the catchment area that resulted into the changing of vegetation, hydrology, and nutrients cycle. Any change at the regional level especially the temperature affects the water quality at the local scale and then at the end it affect the habitat that is species-specific.\n\nThere is ongoing debate about the main factor that controls the distribution and abundance of chironomids.Several factors are considered as the controlling factor especially temperature that in turn control other supporting factors including Ph, salinity, nutrient flow and productivity especially in the late Pleistocene/Holocene timer period. For many years research has been carried out on the relationship between temperature and chironomids distribution pattern due to its influence on its emergence. Chironomids are directly and indirectly affected by temperature during the whole life cycle including their larval emergence, growth, feeding and reproduction. According to Eggermont and Heiri (2012) there is indirect impact of temperature on different physic chemical aspects of water resulted into determination of their distribution and abundance. There is also a strong relationship between the chironomids abundance, emergence and distribution with the mean temperature of the air and water.\n\nAccording to a research conducted by Gunten et al., 2007 at high altitude lake Lej da la Tscheppain Switzerland, seasonal temperature reconstruction can be done with the help of independent chironomids and diatoms.Any change in the assemblage of chironomids reflects change in the temperature and duration of ice cover of that specific water body due to climate change. According to their findings, chironomids respond mostly to the change in the summer temperature, so seasonal variation in temperature can be inferred from different cores of the sediments.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "373152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373152", "title": "Palk Strait", "text": "Palk Strait\n\nThe Palk Strait (, Sinhala: පෝක් සමුද්‍ර සන්ධිය \"Pok Samudra Sandhiya\") is a strait between the Tamil Nadu state of India and the Mannar district of the Northern Province of the island nation of Sri Lanka. It connects the Bay of Bengal in the northeast with Palk Bay in the southwest. The strait is wide. Several rivers flow into it, including the Vaigai River of Tamil Nadu. The strait is named after Robert Palk, who was a governor of Madras (1755–1763) during the Company Raj period.\n\nPalk Bay is studded at its southern end with a chain of low islands and reef shoals that are collectively called Adam's Bridge, since ages it is popularly known in Hindu Mythology as \"Ram Setu\" i.e. The Bridge of Rama. This chain extends between Dhanushkodi on Pamban Island (also known as Rameswaram Island) in Tamil Nadu and Mannar Island in Sri Lanka. The island of Rameswaram is linked to the Indian mainland by the Pamban Bridge.\n\nAs from 1914, there used to be regular trains from Madras/Chennai to Dhanushkodi, a ferry to Talaimannar on Mannar Island, and thence a train to Colombo. In 1964, a cyclone destroyed Dhanushkodi and the railway and caused severe damage along the shores of Palk Strait and Palk Bay. Dhanushkodi was not rebuilt and the railway from Talaimannar to Mahawilachchiya in Sri Lanka was given up due to the civil war (It was later completely rebuilt). There was a ferry between small piers in Rameswaram and Talaimannar, but this was discontinued till date.\n\nThe shallow waters and reefs of the strait make it difficult for large ships to pass through, although fishing boats and small craft carrying coastal trade have navigated the strait for centuries. Large ships must travel around Sri Lanka. Construction of a shipping canal through the strait was first proposed to the British government of India in 1860, and a number of commissions have studied the proposal up to the present day. The most recent study of the Sethusamudram Shipping Canal Project, as it is now called, was an environmental impact assessment and a technical feasibility study commissioned by the Tamil Nadu government in 2004.\n\nHowever, the plan encountered opposition from various religious circles. The Indian epic poem \"Ramayana\", written thousands of years ago in Sanskrit and an important Hindu text, recounts how Rama, with the help of an army of vanaras, built a bridge of stones across the sea to Lanka to rescue his wife Sita from the Asura king Ravana. The Ram Karmabhoomi movement, encouraged by a NASA satellite photograph of Rama's Setu, was formed to prevent the shipping canal from being built.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51074", "title": "Peter Kropotkin", "text": "Peter Kropotkin\n\nPyotr Alexeyevich Kropotkin (; ; December 9, 1842 – February 8, 1921) was a Russian activist, revolutionary, scientist, geographer and philosopher who advocated anarcho-communism.\n\nBorn into an aristocratic land-owning family, he attended a military school and later served as an officer in Siberia, where he participated in several geological expeditions. He was imprisoned for his activism in 1874 and managed to escape two years later. He spent the next 41 years in exile in Switzerland, France (where he was imprisoned for almost four years) and in England. He returned to Russia after the Russian Revolution in 1917, but was disappointed by the Bolshevik form of state socialism.\n\nKropotkin was a proponent of a decentralised communist society free from central government and based on voluntary associations of self-governing communities and worker-run enterprises. He wrote many books, pamphlets and articles, the most prominent being \"The Conquest of Bread\" and \"Fields, Factories and Workshops\"; and his principal scientific offering, \"\". He also contributed the article on anarchism to the \"Encyclopædia Britannica Eleventh Edition\" and left unfinished a work on anarchist ethical philosophy.\n\nKropotkin was born in Moscow, into the second-highest level of the Russian aristocracy. His mother was the daughter of a Cossack general. His father, Alexei Petrovich Kropotkin, was a prince in Smolensk, of the Rurik dynasty which had ruled Russia before the rise of the Romanovs. Kropotkin's father owned large tracts of land and nearly 1,200 male serfs in three provinces.\n\n\"[U]nder the influence of republican teachings\", Kropotkin dropped his princely title at age 12, and \"even rebuked his friends, when they so referred to him.\"\n\nIn 1857, at age 14, Kropotkin enrolled in the Corps of Pages at St. Petersburg. Only 150 boys – mostly children of nobility belonging to the court – were educated in this privileged corps, which combined the character of a military school endowed with special rights and of a court institution attached to the Imperial Household. Kropotkin's memoirs detail the hazing and other abuse of pages for which the Corps had become notorious.\n\nIn Moscow, Kropotkin developed what would become a lifelong interest in the condition of the peasantry. Although his work as a page for Tsar Alexander II made Kropotkin skeptical about the tsar's \"liberal\" reputation, Kropotkin was greatly pleased by the tsar's decision to emancipate the serfs in 1861. In St. Petersburg, he read widely on his own account, and gave special attention to the works of the French encyclopædists and to French history. The years 1857–1861 witnessed a growth in the intellectual forces of Russia, and Kropotkin came under the influence of the new liberal-revolutionary literature, which largely expressed his own aspirations.\n\nIn 1862, Kropotkin graduated first in his class from the Corps of Pages, and entered the Tsarist army. The members of the corps had the prescriptive right to choose the regiment to which they would be attached. Following a desire to \"be someone useful\", Kropotkin chose the difficult route of serving in a Cossack regiment in eastern Siberia. For some time, he was \"aide de camp\" to the governor of Transbaikalia at Chita. Later he was appointed attaché for Cossack affairs to the governor-general of East Siberia at Irkutsk.\n\nThe administrator under whom Kropotkin served, General Boleslar Kazimirovich Kukel (1829–1869) was a liberal and a democrat who maintained personal connections to various Russian radical political figures exiled to Siberia. These included the writer M. I. Mikhailov (1826–1865), to whom Kukel sent Kropotkin to warn the exiled intellectual that Moscow police agents were on the scene to examine his ongoing political activities in confinement. As a result of this assignment, Kropotkin made the acquaintance of Mikhailov, who provided the young Tsarist functionary with a copy of a book by the French anarchist Pierre-Joseph Proudhon — Kropotkin's first introduction to anarchist ideas. Kukel was subsequently dismissed from his administrative position and Kropotkin moved from administration to state-sponsored scientific endeavors.\n\nIn 1864 Kropotkin accepted a position in a geographical survey expedition, crossing North Manchuria from Transbaikalia to the Amur, and soon was attached to another expedition up the Sungari River into the heart of Manchuria. The expeditions yielded valuable geographical results. The impossibility of obtaining any real administrative reforms in Siberia now induced Kropotkin to devote himself almost entirely to scientific exploration, in which he continued to be highly successful.\n\nKropotkin continued his political reading, including works by such prominent liberal thinkers as John Stuart Mill and Alexander Herzen. These readings, along with his experiences among peasants in Siberia, led him to declare himself an anarchist by 1872.\n\nIn 1867, Kropotkin resigned his commission in the army and returned to St. Petersburg, where he entered the Saint Petersburg Imperial University to study mathematics, becoming at the same time secretary to the geography section of the Russian Geographical Society. His departure from a family tradition of military service prompted his father to disinherit him, \"leaving him a 'prince' with no visible means of support\". \n\nIn 1871, Kropotkin explored the glacial deposits of Finland and Sweden for the Society. In 1873, he published an important contribution to science, a map and paper in which he showed that the existing maps entirely misrepresented the physical features of Asia; the main structural lines were in fact from southwest to northeast, not from north to south or from east to west as had been previously supposed. During this work, he was offered the secretaryship of the Society, but he had decided that it was his duty not to work at fresh discoveries but to aid in diffusing existing knowledge among the people at large. Accordingly, he refused the offer and returned to St. Petersburg, where he joined the revolutionary party.\n\nKropotkin visited Switzerland in 1872 and became a member of the International Workingmen's Association (IWA) at Geneva. However, he found that he did not like IWA's style of socialism. Instead, he studied the programme of the more radical Jura federation at Neuchâtel and spent time in the company of the leading members, and adopted the creed of anarchism.\n\nOn returning to Russia, Kropotkin's friend Dmitri Klements introduced him to the Circle of Tchaikovsky, a socialist/populist group created in 1872. Kropotkin worked to spread revolutionary propaganda among peasants and workers, and acted as a bridge between the Circle and the aristocracy. Throughout this period, Kropotkin maintained his position within the Geographical Society in order to provide cover for his activities.\n\nIn 1872, Kropotkin was arrested and imprisoned in the Peter and Paul Fortress for subversive political activity, as a result of his work with the Circle of Tchaikovsky. Because of his aristocratic background, he received special privileges in prison, such as permission to continue his geographical work in his cell. He delivered his report on the subject of the Ice Age in 1876, where he argued that it had taken place in not as distant a past as originally thought.\n\nIn 1876, just before his trial, Kropotkin was moved to a low-security prison in St. Petersburg, from which he escaped with the help of his friends. On the night of the escape, Kropotkin and his friends celebrated by dining in one of the finest restaurants in St. Petersburg, assuming correctly that the police would not think to look for them there. After this, he boarded a boat, and headed to England. After a short stay there, he moved to Switzerland where he joined the Jura Federation. In 1877, he moved to Paris, where he helped start the socialist movement. In 1878, he returned to Switzerland where he edited the Jura Federation's revolutionary newspaper \"Le Révolté\", and published various revolutionary pamphlets.\nIn 1881, shortly after the assassination of Tsar Alexander II, he was expelled from Switzerland. After a short stay at Thonon (Savoy), he stayed in London for nearly a year. He attended the Anarchist Congress in London from July 14, 1881. Other delegates included Marie Le Compte, Errico Malatesta, Saverio Merlino, Louise Michel, Nicholas Tchaikovsky and Émile Gautier. While respecting \"complete autonomy of local groups\", the congress defined propaganda actions that all could follow and agreed that propaganda by the deed was the path to social revolution. \"The Radical\" of July 23, 1881 reported that the congress met on July 18 at the Cleveland Hall, Fitzroy Square, with speeches by Marie Le Compte, \"the transatlantic agitator\", Louise Michel, and Kropotkin. Later Le Compte and Kropotkin gave talks to the Homerton Social Democratic Club and to the Stratford Radical and Dialectical Club.\n\nKropotkin returned to Thonon in late 1882. Soon he was arrested by the French government, tried at Lyon, and sentenced by a police-court magistrate (under a special law passed on the fall of the Paris Commune) to five years' imprisonment, on the ground that he had belonged to the IWA (1883). The French Chamber repeatedly agitated on his behalf, and he was released in 1886. He was invited to Britain by Henry Seymour and Charlotte Wilson and all three worked on Seymour's The Anarchist. Soon after Wilson and Kropotkin would split from the individualist anarchist Seymour and found the Freedom Press, an anarchist newspaper which continues to this day. Kropotkin was a regular contributor while Wilson was integral to the administrative and financial running of the paper until she resigned its editorship in 1895. He settled near London, living at various times in Harrow, then Bromley, where his daughter and only child, Alexandra, was born on April 15, 1887. He also lived for a number of years in Brighton. While living in London, Kropotkin became friends with a number of prominent English-speaking socialists, including William Morris and George Bernard Shaw.\n\nIn 1917, after the February Revolution, Kropotkin returned to Russia after 40 years of exile. His arrival was greeted by cheering crowds of tens of thousands of people. He was offered the ministry of education in the Provisional Government, which he promptly refused, feeling that working with them would be a violation of his anarchist principles.\n\nHis enthusiasm for the changes occurring in the Russian Empire expanded when Bolsheviks seized power in the October Revolution. He had this to say about the October Revolution: \"During all the activities of the present revolutionary political parties we must never forget that the October movement of the proletariat, which ended in a revolution, has proved to everybody that a social revolution is within the bounds of possibility. And this struggle, which takes place worldwide, has to be supported by all means - all the rest is secondary. The party of the Bolsheviks was right to adopt the old, purely proletarian name of \"Communist Party\". Even if it does not achieve everything that it would like to, it will nevertheless enlighten the path of the civilised countries for at least a century. Its ideas will slowly be adopted by the peoples in the same way as in the nineteenth century the world adopted the ideas of the Great French Revolution. That is the colossal achievement of the October Revolution.\" ...\n\"I see the October Revolution as an attempt to bring the preceding February Revolution to its logical conclusion with a transition to communism and federalism.\" \n\nEven though he led a life on the margins of the revolutionary upheaval, Kropotkin became increasingly critical of the methods of the Bolshevik dictatorship, and went on to express these feelings in writing. “Unhappily, this effort has been made in Russia under a strongly centralized party dictatorship. This effort was made in the same way as the extremely centralized and Jacobin endeavor of Babeuf. I owe it to you to say frankly that, according to my view, this effort to build a communist republic on the basis of a strongly centralized state communism under the iron law of party dictatorship is bound to end in failure. We are learning to know in Russia how not to introduce communism, even with a people tired of the old regime and opposing no active resistance to the experiments of the new rulers.”\n\nKropotkin died of pneumonia on February 8, 1921, in the city of Dmitrov, and was buried at the Novodevichy Cemetery in Moscow. Thousands of people marched in his funeral procession, including, with Vladimir Lenin's approval, anarchists carrying banners with anti-Bolshevik slogans. The occasion, the last public demonstration of anarchists in Soviet Russia, saw engaged speeches by Emma Goldman and Aron Baron. In some versions of Peter Kropotkin's \"Conquest of Bread\", the mini-biography states that this would be the last time that Kropotkin's supporters would be allowed to freely rally in public. \n\nIn 1957 the Dvorets Sovetov station of the Moscow Metro was renamed Kropotkinskaya in his honor.\n\nKropotkin pointed out what he considered to be the fallacies of the economic systems of feudalism and capitalism. He believed they create poverty and artificial scarcity while promoting privilege. Instead, he proposed a more decentralized economic system based on mutual aid, mutual support, and voluntary cooperation, asserting that the tendencies for this kind of organization already exist, both in evolution and in human society.\n\nHe disagreed with the Marxian critique of capitalism, including the labour theory of value, believing there was no necessary link between work performed and the prices of commodities. His attacks on the institution of wage-labour were based more on the power employers exerted over employees – which he claimed was made possible by the state protecting private ownership of productive resources – than the extraction of surplus value from their labour.\n\nIn 1902, Kropotkin published his book \"\", which provided an alternative view of animal and human survival, beyond the claims of interpersonal competition and natural hierarchy proffered at the time by some \"social Darwinists\" such as Francis Galton. He argued that \"it was an evolutionary emphasis on cooperation instead of competition in the Darwinian sense that made for the success of species, including the human\". Kropotkin explored the widespread use of cooperation as a survival mechanism in human societies - through their many stages - and among animals. He used many real-life examples in an attempt to show that the main factor in facilitating evolution is cooperation between individuals in free-associated societies and groups, without central control, authority, or compulsion. He did so in order to counteract the concept of fierce competition as the core of evolution, which concept provided a rationalization for the dominant political, economic, and social theories of the time and for the prevalent interpretations of Darwinism. In the last chapter, he wrote:\n\nKropotkin did not deny the presence of competitive urges in humans, but did not see them as the driving force of history (as did capitalists and social Darwinists). He believed that seeking out conflict proved to be socially beneficial only in attempts to destroy unjust, authoritarian institutions such as the State or the Church, which he saw as stifling human creativity and freedom and impeding human instinctual drive towards sociality and cooperation.\n\nKropotkin's observations of cooperative tendencies in indigenous peoples (pre-feudal, feudal, and those remaining in modern societies) led him to conclude that not all human societies were based on competition, such as those of industrialized Europe, and that many societies exhibited cooperation among individuals and groups as the norm. He also concluded that most pre-industrial and pre-authoritarian societies (where he claimed that leadership, central government and class did not exist) actively defend against the accumulation of private property by, for example, equally distributing within the community a person's possessions when he died, or by not allowing a gift to be sold, bartered or used to create wealth (see Gift economy).\n\nIn his 1892 book \"The Conquest of Bread\", Kropotkin proposed a system of economics based on mutual exchanges made in a system of voluntary cooperation. He believed that should a society be socially, culturally, and industrially developed enough to produce all the goods and services required by it, then no obstacle, such as preferential distribution, pricing or monetary exchange will prevent everyone to take what they need from the social product. He supported the eventual abolition of money or tokens of exchange for goods and services.\n\nKropotkin believed that Bakunin's collectivist economic model was simply a wage system by a different name, and that such a system would breed the same type of centralization and inequality as a capitalist wage system. He stated that it is impossible to determine the value of an individual's contributions to the products of social labor, and thought that anyone who was placed in a position of trying to make such determinations would wield authority over those whose wages they determined. He further developed these ideas in \"Fields, Factories and Workshops\".\n\nAccording to Kirkpatrick Sale:\n\nKropotkin's focus on local production led to his view that a country should strive for self-sufficiencymanufacture its own goods and grow its own food, lessening dependence on imports. To these ends he advocated irrigation and greenhouses to boost local food production ability.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36610370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36610370", "title": "Porta San Pellegrino", "text": "Porta San Pellegrino\n\nPorta San Pellegrino is a gate in the outer wall of Vatican City. It is located beside Bernini's Colonnade and the small Vatican post; it is also known as Porta Viridaria. The gate was rebuilt by Pope Alexander VI in 1492 and his arms are at the top of the gate. The gate is little used.\n\nOn Friday, February 6, 2015, Catholic News Service (CNS) reported, in a brief online news release on its website, that the Vatican, through a communique, had announced that it had finished remodeling a public bathroom, to include three showers (which the article stated will be open every day except Wednesday, the day of the Pope's general audience, and other times when there are large events in the Basilica and the Square) and a barber's chair (haircuts will be available on Mondays), near Bernini's Colonnade. The services, which will include issuance of kits for hygiene, are meant for the homeless pilgrims of the Vatican.\n\n"}
{"id": "16177382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16177382", "title": "Rome wasn't built in a day", "text": "Rome wasn't built in a day\n\n\"Rome wasn't built in a day\" is an adage attesting to the need for time to create great things. It is the usual English translation of a medieval French phrase, «\"Rome ne fu[t] pas faite toute en un jour\"», from the collection \"Li Proverbe au Vilain\", published around 1190. The modern French form is «».\n\nThe expression, (as \"Rome was not built in one day\") is given in English in John Heywood's \"A Dialogue Conteinyng the Nomber in Effect of all the Prouerbes in the Englishe Tongue\" (c. 1538), while Queen Elizabeth referred to the idea in Latin in an address at Cambridge in 1563. The present perfect and \"oratio recta\" version of the Latin saying—the version one would use for a stand-alone quotation—would be \"Roma uno die non est condita\".\n"}
{"id": "22872256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22872256", "title": "St. Mark's Square, Zagreb", "text": "St. Mark's Square, Zagreb\n\nSt. Mark's Square (, abbreviated \"Trg sv. Marka\", also known as \"Markov trg\") is a square located in the old part of Zagreb, Croatia, called Gradec or Gornji grad ().\n\nIn the center of square is located St. Mark's Church. The square also sports important governmental buildings: Banski dvori (the seat of the Government of Croatia), Croatian Parliament () and Constitutional Court of Croatia. On the corner of St. Mark's Square and the Street of Ćiril and Metod is the Old City Hall, where the Zagreb City Council held its sessions.\n\nIn 2006, the square underwent a renovation project. In August 2005, the Government forbid any form of protests on St. Mark's Square, which caused controversies in Croatian civil society. This ban was partially lifted in 2012.\n\nThe square is also the site of the inaugurations of Croatia's presidents. Franjo Tuđman took his oath as President of the Republic in 1992 and 1997, Stjepan Mesić in 2000 and 2005, Ivo Josipović in 2010, and Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović in 2015.\n"}
{"id": "461620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=461620", "title": "Straits of Florida", "text": "Straits of Florida\n\nThe Straits of Florida, Florida Straits, or Florida Strait () is a strait located south-southeast of the North American mainland, generally accepted to be between the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean, and between the Florida Keys (U.S.) and Cuba. It is 150 km (93 mi) wide at the narrowest point between Key West and the Cuban shore, and has been sounded to a depth of 6,000 feet (1,800 m). The strait carries the Florida Current, the beginning of the Gulf Stream, from the Gulf of Mexico.\n\nFive wells were drilled in state waters south of the Florida Keys from 1947 to 1962. Gulf Oil drilled three wells in federal waters south of the Florida Keys in 1960 and 1961. All the wells were dry holes.\n\nThe boundary between the Exclusive Economic Zones of the US and Cuba is halfway between Cuba and Florida, as determined by a 1977 treaty between the US and Cuba.\n\nCuba has three producing offshore oil fields within 5 km of its north coast opposite Florida. The US Geological Survey estimates that the North Cuba Basin contains of undiscovered petroleum liquids and 9.8 trillion cubic feet of natural gas, almost all in the offshore part of the basin.\n\nThe issue of allowing oil and gas exploration offshore Florida became a hotly contested topic in the 2008 US elections. In a column published 5 June 2008, syndicated columnist George Will wrote that a Chinese oil company was then drilling in Cuban waters from the Florida coast, a claim that was repeated by candidates in favor of offshore drilling. In fact, no drilling was then taking place in that part of Cuban waters.\n\nIn 2004 the Spanish oil company Repsol drilled in deep Cuban waters between Cuba and the Florida Keys, and found an oil deposit; the deposit was judged noncommercial, and the hole was plugged. In October 2008, Cuba signed an agreement with the Brazilian state oil company Petrobras, which provides for Petrobras to drill for oil and gas in deep waters off the north shore of Cuba. In July 2009, Cuba signed an agreement with the Russian government giving the Russian oil company Zarubezhneft oil exploration rights off the north shore of Cuba. By May 2011 Petrobas had withdrawn from the 2008 agreement due to poor prospects.\n\nIn 2009 the Falkland Islands-registered company Bahamas Petroleum Company Ltd. and Norwegian company Statoil announced a joint venture to drill for oil in Bahamian waters north of Cuba and southeast of Florida. The government of the Bahamas has indicated that applications for offshore drilling are on hold pending negotiations with Cuba, the United States, and the Turks and Caicos Islands on the exact boundaries between their respective Exclusive Economic Zones.\n\n"}
{"id": "13407724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13407724", "title": "Survex", "text": "Survex\n\nSurvex is an free and open-source cave surveying software, licensed under the GNU GPL. It is designed to be portable and can be run on a variety of platforms, including Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X, and Unix-like. Survex is very powerful cave survey software, and is actively developing into a complete cave visualization package.\n\nCentreline data is entered using plain text files, which are processed by 'Cavern'. The text files contain a hierarchy of cave surveys, each of which consists of a list of survey legs, which join survey stations. This program calculates the real world coordinates of survey stations, taking into account loop closure errors using least-squares minimization. This processed data can then be visualised using a GUI front end called Aven. Survex has no arbitrary limits, and so is particularly good for large complicated cave systems, or areas where you need to see the relationships between multiple cave systems.\n\nSurvex was started in 1990 by Olly Betts and Wookey, and more recently Mark Shinwell has developed 'Aven'. Like most cave surveying software, the motivation for its creation arose from a particular surveying project - Cambridge University Caving Club's explorations in Austria.\n\nSurvex is currently being used in many large scale survey projects, across the world, for example: UK - Ease Gill Caverns \nOgof Draenen, \nSpain - Picos de Europa, \nChina, \nAustria - Dachstein, Totes Gerbirge, \nIndonesia, \nMulu\n\n"}
{"id": "2629465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2629465", "title": "Telephone numbers in Cyprus", "text": "Telephone numbers in Cyprus\n\nTelephone numbers in Cyprus follow a closed telephone numbering plan which was adopted on 1 December 2001. As a result, for land line phone numbers the digit 2 followed by the old area code was affixed to the subscriber number and for mobile phones 9 was affixed to the phone number. The plan is also used in Akrotiri and Dhekelia.\n\nPreviously, landline numbers consisted of the trunk code 0, the area code, and a six-digit number. \n\nUnder the new system, these changed to numbers with eight digits, to be dialled from within Cyprus or abroad.\n\nMobile phone numbers had the prefix 09, followed by six digits, which had to be dialled in full. \n\n\nAs with fixed line numbers, under the new system, these changed to numbers with eight digits, to be dialled from within Cyprus or abroad. \n\n99 and 97 are assigned to CYTAmobile-Vodafone (which was the only mobile phone carrier until 2004), 96 is assigned to MTN, 95 to PrimeTel and 94 to LemonTel CallSat www.callsat.eu Numbering portability between the networks is possible.\n\nAll numbers (except short codes) in Cyprus now have eight digits, hence the new numbering plan's promotional logo (in advertising) was an octopus called TESA (from Greek Τελικό Εθνικό Σχέδιο Αριθμοδότησης \"Final National Numbering Plan\") .\n\nIn Northern Cyprus, the Turkish numbering plan is in use. The Turkish area code 0392 has been assigned for use with landline numbers, with 0533 Kuzey Kibris Turkcell and 0542 KKTC Telsim being used for mobile phones, while the Turkish country code +90 is used for calls from the rest of the world.\n\nFor calls from the Republic of Cyprus to Northern Cyprus, the code 0139 followed by the 7-digit subscriber number is used, which are charged at local call rates. 0139 is still used for direct calls to Northern Cyprus even after the numbering plan change of December 2001. \n\nFor calls from Northern Cyprus to the Republic of Cyprus, area code 0123 is used but the call is charged at international rates. It is also possible to use the international prefix 00357. \n\nThese direct telephone connections between the two halves of the island are operated by the United Nations exchange, which allows direct telephone calls between the two communities is in place since 4 May 1998.\n\nAfter 2 March 2003, direct international calls from the Republic of Cyprus to Turkey are possible and now callers from the Republic of Cyprus can call Northern Cyprus through Turkey dialling 0090 392 xxxxxxx as well as using 0139 (although in this case calls will be charged at international rates).\n\n"}
{"id": "55226272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55226272", "title": "Tianwendian", "text": "Tianwendian\n\nTianwendian is the location of a Chinese military camp near Depsang Plains in the region of Aksai Chin that is controlled by China but disputed by India. The world's highest Border Personnel Meeting point is located near Tianwendian.\n"}
{"id": "56846636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56846636", "title": "Vehicle registration plates of Eritrea", "text": "Vehicle registration plates of Eritrea\n\nEritrea requires its residents to register their motor vehicles and display vehicle registration plates.\n\nThe very first Italian registration plates, from 1913 to the end of the 1920s, were rectangular, with a white background and with the name or initials of the colony in red followed by the registration number, on a single line, but the documentation on this is fragmentary. For the Italian colonial troops, however, special military service plates were used with the initials SOM (Somalia) or T (Tripolitania) in front.\nSubsequently, until 1935, the Italian colonies used white plates on black with a colonial code on the first line, and up to 5 numbers on the second line. The numbers, in relief, were assigned serially and the plates were made of metal, with the fasces as a seal. The colonial codes were:\n\n\nBetween 1937 and 1941 there was an Italian governorate in Ethiopia and in those years a new type of Italian license plate was issued. They were exactly the same as the previous ones, but they had three squares on the left, colored top to bottom green, white and red, like the Italian flag, with the letters AOI (\"Africa Orientale Italiana\") for Italian East Africa inside. The front plates resembled standard Italian front license plates, as these were smaller, and only sometimes had the colored squares like the rear license plates. The abbreviations used to indicate the origin are:\n"}
{"id": "5356593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5356593", "title": "Wikimapia", "text": "Wikimapia\n\nWikimapia is a privately owned internet company that provides an open-content collaborative mapping project. The project implements an interactive \"clickable\" web map with a geographically-referenced wiki system, with the aim to mark and describe all geographical objects in the world.\n\nWikimapia was created by Alexandre Koriakine and Evgeniy Saveliev in May 2006. The data, a crowdsourced collection of places marked by registered users and guests, has grown to just under 28,000,000 objects , and is released under the Creative Commons License Attribution-ShareAlike (CC BY-SA). Although the project's name is reminiscent of that of Wikipedia, and the creators share the \"wiki\" philosophy, it is not a part of the non-profit Wikimedia Foundation family of wikis.\n\nAccording to the website, Wikimapia is an open-content collaborative mapping project, aimed at marking all geographical objects in the world and providing a useful description of them. It aims to create and maintain a free, complete, multilingual and up-to-date map of the whole world. Wikimapia intends to contain detailed information about every place on Earth.\n\nThe Wikimapia website provides a Google Maps API-based interactive web map that consists of user-generated information layered on top of Google Maps satellite imagery and other resources. The navigation interface provides scroll and zoom functionality similar to that of Google Maps.\n\nThe Wikimapia layer is a collection of \"objects\" with a polygonal outline (like buildings, forests or lakes) and \"linear features\" (streets, railroads, rivers, ferry). Streets are connected by intersection points to form a street grid. Both kinds of items may have textual descriptions and photos attached to them. Viewers are able to click on any marked object or street segment to see its description. Descriptions can be searched by a built-in search tool. Tools for refining existing places according to category as well as measuring distances between objects are also available. Objects marked as buildings can have internal places (such as a business inside of a larger office building) added.\n\nCategories are organized in a hierarchy such that viewing by a more general category includes having the specific category included. This is such as viewing \"house\" includes viewing \"detached house\". The hierarchy is not a strict hierarchy. For instance, the category \"convenience store\" appears in multiple places in the hierarchy.\n\nThe interface is available in many languages, and the textual description of each item may have multiple versions in different languages. Wikimapia maps can also be embedded on other websites.\n\nThe data in Wikimapia is derived from voluntary crowdsourcing. All users, registered or unregistered (\"guest\"), are allowed to add a place on the Wikimapia layer. Using a simple graphical editing tool, users are able to draw an outline or polygon that matches the satellite image layer underneath. Each object or \"tag\" has specific information fields which include categories, a textual description, street address, and a related Wikipedia link. Users are likewise capable of uploading several relevant photos.\n\nRegistered users have fewer restrictions on map editing and are able to edit and/or delete existing places as well as draw \"linear features\" (roads, railroads, rivers and ferry lines). A \"watchlist\" could be manually set up to monitor all activity or object changes made in one or more of the assigned rectangular areas on the map.\n\nThe website is maintained and developed by a small team of administrators (the \"Wikimapia Team\"), who introduce new features and determine further evolution course. Improvements are largely based on a feedback system from registered users through public forum discussions, bug reports and feature requests.\n\nThe registered user community is largely self-organized, with users communicating through an internal message system and through a public forum. Map editing rewards the user \"experience points\" and milestone \"awards\" assigned by the system.\n\nRegistered users are automatically ranked in levels according to accumulated experience points, with higher levels gaining access to advanced tools and having fewer restrictions on editing activity. A registered user may be promoted to \"Advanced User\" (\"AU\") status as other existing \"AU\"s deem it fit. Additional editing and moderation tools, which include the authority to ban users, are given to an Advanced User, who is given the responsibility of countering vandalism in the map.\n\nSpecial roles of maintaining the website forum, place categories, and the Wikimapia Documentation (\"Docs\") are also given by the \"Wikimapia Team\" to some users.\n\nThe data in Wikimapia is derived from voluntary contributors who visit and add the information on the website. The textual description attached to each place object is in free format, having no restriction on style, with the exception of possessing a Neutral Point of View, where \"neutral\" is defined as excluding \"feelings, opinions, experiences, words which display a personal bias or agenda, politics and/or religion\". Citing the source of the information is optional, and a link to a relevant and existing Wikipedia article is encouraged.\n\nIn spite of these recommendations, map coverage is generally uneven, with some areas, usually in developing countries, being cluttered with crude outlines, private residences, subjective evaluations or advertisements, requiring constant attention and refining by regular editors. Information can either be edited or deleted by registered users as they deem it inappropriate.\n\nIn December 2009, Wikimapia launched an API and made its content available in several formats for non-commercial use. In December 2010, the data was announced as being available under a Non-Commercial Creative Commons license.\n\nIn May 2012, Wikimapia announced that all the content was available under Creative Commons License Attribution-ShareAlike (CC BY-SA).\n\nThe site generates some income from AdSense and Wikimapia Ads.\n\nWikimapia functionality is available on:\n\n\n"}
