{"id": "28318620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28318620", "title": "Accademia della Farnesina", "text": "Accademia della Farnesina\n\nThe Academia della Farnesina, also known as the Accademia fascista maschile di educazione fisica or Accademia fascista della Farnesina, was a center for sport and political education in fascist Italy.\n\nThe school opened on 5 February 1928. Initially housed in the Military Academy of Physical Education, the Institute moved to its final seat at Foro Mussolini in November 1932. The Institute had an essential aim: to train the Physical Education teachers of the Italian schools and the sport instructors of the Opera Nazionale Balilla (ONB). However, the lack of youth leaders obliged Renato Ricci, president of the ONB, to partially change the aims of the Institute. As a consequence, the school became the most important center for training the male leadership of the Fascist Youth Organisations.\n\nStudy at the Farnesina lasted two years. After students obtained their certificate, they attended a nine-month apprenticeship. After that, they were permanently hired by the Opera Nazionale Balilla. During the course the students played many sports and gymnastic activities and attended many classes like, for example, anatomy, physiology, first aid, traumatology, hygiene, psychology, fascist laws, philosophy, pedagogy, history of physical education, art, singing, French and English. One year after its inauguration, the school changed its name to \"Accademia fascista di educazione fisica\" (Fascist academy of physical education\"). Ricci wanted it to be «the biggest educational experiment» ever tried in order to create the \"new man\". The Institute had to guarantee to the Fascist Youth Organisation the educators and leaders it needed.\n\nSince 1929 being members of the Fascist Party became essential to apply for a post at the school. The applicants were chosen taking into consideration the years spent in the Fascist organisations. Also the syllabi at the school changed. All the subjects, considered necessary in order to train from a political point of view the future leaders of the Youth Organisations, became more and more important. To the former students of the school were assigned different roles according to the capacities showed during the course. Some of them became teachers in the schools, others, the most suitable ones from a political point of view, became youth leaders. Two laws stated clearly the organisation and the aims of the Foro Mussolini Institute: the royal decree 1.227 of 28 August 1931 and the royal decree 1.592 of 31 August 1933. According to such legislative measures the school had to be a center to train and select the Fascist Youth leadership.\n\nIn 1937 the Fascist Youth Organisation became a party organisation and changed its name, from Opera Nazionale Balilla to Gioventù Italiana del Littorio (GIL). Consequently, the school also had to be reorganised. In April 1938 the General Command of the GIL appointed two commissions. Their aim was to draft new Statutes and new syllabi for the Fascist Academies of Rome and Orvieto. Following the lines drawn by the two commissions, the Italian Parliament promulgated a new law, no. 866 of 22 May 1939, which ordered both institutes until the end of the fascist regime. The Foro Mussolini Institute changed its name to \"Accademia della GIL\". The Farnesina depended on the Fascist Party directly rather than, as before, on the Ministry of National Education. It became an educational centre closely tied to the Party. The courses now lasted for three years. Studying the German language became compulsory in 1940. The subjects were divided into four sections: political, military, biological-scientific and sport. Unlike all other Italian Institutes, the degrees of the Academy were awarded not in the name of the King, but in the name of the Duce.\n\nTo become a student at the Academy, it was necessary to pass a public selection and to demonstrate to be deserving from a moral, political, racial, personal and family point of view. The applications were not sent by young people themselves, but by the local commands of the Youth organisation. These selected the applicants they found most suitable to attend the school. After 1938 racial purity became an essential requirement and Jewish students were expelled.\n\nOn 30 October 1940 Riccardo Versari, who had been chancellor of the school since its foundation, left his seat to Nicola Pende, father of the Italian Somatotype and constitutional psychology and one of the scientists who wrote down the Manifesto of Race. He tried in vain to transform the schools in Rome and Orvieto into universities.\n\nAfter the end of the Fascist regime on 25 July 1943, the GIL was dissolved and the schools were closed. In the Repubblica Sociale Italiana (RSI), Renato Ricci created a new youth organisation known as Opera Balilla. He also founded once again the male and female academies respectively in Gallarate and in Castiglione Olona. When the war ended, many students, who couldn't finish the courses at the Fascist academies, asked to complete their training and to get the final degree. As a consequence, the Parliament approved in 1950 the law number 415. It stated that it was necessary to organise some courses so that the former students, who had to stop attending the academies, could pass the final exams. This law gave the possibility to many students, first of all those expelled for racial reasons, to finish their courses. The law stated also that the courses organised in the RSI and the degrees granted by the academies of Gallarate and Castiglione Olona were not to be acknowledged by the Italian democratic state. On 20 February 1951 the High Council of Public Education approved the regulation for the organisation of the courses that took place in Rome from 1951 to 1954. To guarantee the training of the physical education teachers of the Italian democratic republic it was opened in Rome the Istituto Superiore di Educazione Fisica (ISEF) (or High Institute for Physical Education) in 1953. Only on 25 January 1967 the Institute obtained a final seat at the former GIL Music Academy located at the Foro Italico (former \"Foro Mussolini\").\n\n\nForo Mussolini viltual tour \n"}
{"id": "46904191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46904191", "title": "Big Pharma (video game)", "text": "Big Pharma (video game)\n\nBig Pharma is a simulation game developed by Twice Circled and published by Positech Games where one builds a drug factory. The game was released on 27 August 2015.\n\nIn \"Big Pharma\" the player takes the role as the manager of a pharmaceutical company, producing prescription drugs from raw materials. Raw materials have intrinsic positive (e.g., \"Reduces coughs\") and negative (e.g., \"Induces drowsiness\") effects that present themselves when the material is within a set concentration range, with possible concentrations ranging on a 0-to-20 scale. Most of the positive benefits can be enhanced to more desirable effects, or negative side effects can be outright removed, by bringing the material to a specific concentration range and applying an indicated process, some further requiring the addition of a catalyst material which itself carries positive and negative effects. Materials can also be mixed to combine positive and negative benefits to create more potent drugs. The goal in the mixing and preparation of materials is to achieve drugs that have their positive effects as close to their maximum potency concentration while either eliminating side effects or bringing the material's concentration as far away from the side effects' maximum potency levels.\nThe player produces the drugs using an assembly line approach with various equipment that can modify the concentration of the material, combine materials, rearrange the effects of a material to determine how effects combine when mixed, analyze materials to determine maximum potency levels, and finally prepare the material in pill form for delivery. This is done on an isometric view of building plant floorplan, with various ports along the edges that can be used to bring in materials or ship out completed drugs. Materials are transported via conveyor belts between the processing units. Added building space can be purchased with in-game funds. The player can click on processes or materials to evaluate their current state, thus giving them the ability to debug the production line. Once the player has produced a complete pill from specific materials for the first time and delivered it to an output port, they are given the opportunity to name the product. This product is then sold on the game's virtual market. The produce is rated on a letter-grade based on the effectiveness and lack of side-effects as well as current market demand. The production lines operate in real-time - in that while the player can pause the game to arrange equipment within a production line, the game while running tracks the movement of each unit of material through the production line and only considered each unit as a product when it reaches the end of the production line.\n\nIn the larger game, the player must build up these drug production lines to maintain a profit and allow them to build additional lines. Scenarios in the game include competing companies that will also be releasing prescription drugs that will impact the profitability of the player's products. For example, if other companies have released a cold remedy drug, the market may be too saturated for a better cold remedy to succeed. The player can review what market demand there is for specific remedies to tailor productions toward those goals. In addition, the player can manage a research tree that enables more effective process equipment and other benefits to be built, and send out explorers to research on new possible ingredients to build from. The game includes a number of preset scenarios (such as reached a financial milestone after a number of years of operation) at various difficulty levels as well as the ability to create a custom open-ended game.\n\nAn expansion, \"Marketing And Malpractice\", was released on 26 April 2016. This expansion will add Executives as part of the company which can be used to market the drugs produced by the player's production lines, as well as to try to manipulate and corner the market.\n\nBig Pharma received. has a score of 72% on Metacritic, and scored an 8/10 from IGN Spain.\n"}
{"id": "1418754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1418754", "title": "Blinkenlights Archaeological Institute", "text": "Blinkenlights Archaeological Institute\n\nThe Blinkenlights Archaeological Institute was established in 1997 to preserve historical computing devices. Its headquarters are in Seattle, Washington, United States. Some of its collection is on display at VintageTech in Oakland, California, and the Computer History Museum in Mountain View, California.\n\nThe name of the institute is a tribute to the term \"blinkenlights\" originated in hacker humor.\n\n"}
{"id": "22950437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22950437", "title": "Bob Berman", "text": "Bob Berman\n\nRobert Berman, known as Bob Berman, is an American astronomer, author, and science popularizer.\nHe runs Overlook Observatory in Woodstock, New York, USA. He was an adjunct professor of astronomy at the liberal arts college, Marymount Manhattan College, from 1996 to 2000 and has appeared on \"CBS This Morning\", the \"Today Show\", and the \"Late Show with David Letterman\".\n\nIn 1976, Berman founded the Catskill Astronomical Society.\nFrom 1986 to 1994 he ran the summer astronomy program at Yellowstone National Park. He was the \"Sky Lights\" and \"Night Watchman\" astronomy columnist for \"Discover\" from 1989 to 2006. He is currently \"Astronomy Magazine\"'s \"Strange Universe\" columnist and contributing editor.\n\nHe also is the astronomy editor of \"The Old Farmer's Almanac\". He has led aurora and eclipse expeditions as far away as the Arctic and Antarctic.\n\nBerman conducts a weekly radio broadcast, \"Skywindow\", and a monthly, hour-long call-in show on Northeast Public Radio. He was keynote speaker at Starfest 2007.\nHe is also heard nightly on Slooh.com\n\n\n"}
{"id": "970458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=970458", "title": "Book discussion club", "text": "Book discussion club\n\nA book club is a group of people who meet to discuss a book or books that they have read and express their opinions, likes, dislikes, etc. It is more often called simply a book club, a term that is also used to describe a book sales club, which can cause confusion. Other frequently used terms to describe a book discussion club include reading group, book group, and book discussion group. Book discussion clubs may meet in private homes, libraries, bookstores, online forums, pubs, and in cafés or restaurants over meals or drinks.\n\nA practice also associated with book discussion, common reading program or common read, involves institutions encouraging their members to discuss select books in group settings; common reading programs are largely associated with educational institutions encouraging their students to hold book discussion meetings.\n\nA single-title club is one in which people discuss a particular title that every person in the group has read at the same time, often with each member buying a personal copy. Clearly, the club must somehow decide ahead of time what that title will be. Some groups may decide to choose new release titles, whilst others may choose older ones, or a mixture of the two. If it is a book discussion club that meets at a library, then each member may borrow a copy of the book from the library over a given timeframe in order for a later discussion.\n\nThere may be a few problems with these clubs. Some members may regard them as opportunities to meet people for social contact and general conversation, partially veering off onto a wide variety of non-literary topics, while others wish to engage in serious literary analysis focused on the book in question and related works, with little non-literary interaction. Additionally, some members may suggest a book not because they are interested in it from a literary point-of-view but because they think it will offer them an opportunity to make points of personal interest to them or fit an external agenda. Also, different expectations and education/skill levels may lead to conflicts and disappointments in clubs of this kind.\n\nThe characteristics of a multi-title club are such that each member may be reading different titles from each other at any given time, and they may share a reading list for a period of time. What distinguishes this from any group of unrelated people reading different things from each other is that each title is expected to be read by the next member in a serial fashion.\n\nOpen loans suggest that the books in question are free to be loaned among the population with the expectation of getting them back eventually. Instead of one member deciding what everyone will read, with all the cost implications of acquiring that title, these clubs usually involve circulating books they already own. Each book is introduced with a short precis. This offers members the advantage of previewing a work before committing to read. It has the effect of narrowing the focus of the dialogue so that book and reader are more quickly and more accurately matched up. The sequential nature of the process implies that within a short time, three to five people may have read the same title, which is the perfect amount for a worthy conversation.\n\nCatch and release imply that actual ownership of the book transfers each iteration with no expectation of the book returning to the original owner. The mechanism of transfer may include a personal face to face hand off, sending the items through the mail, or most remarkably, leaving the book in a public place with the expectation that unknown future readers will find it there. All three methods are utilized with BookCrossing. Participants use a website and a system of unique identification numbers to track released items as they migrate through a worldwide community. The interaction is largely web-centric, but it does not exclude face-to-face gatherings, each of which can take on the traits of other book discussion clubs.\n\nMany public libraries lead book clubs as a library program on a regular basis. A librarian usually leads a discussion after participants read the book. Copies of the book are available to either be checked out or signed out for the group meeting. If leading a book discussion group outside of the facility, often libraries offer book discussion kits where several titles of a book are able to be loaned out of the library to a single patron. Also, the lending period is typically longer than for the average book. The kits also contains a suggested reading guide with discussion questions. This is a convenience as everyone in the group is not forced to buy a copy of the book.\n\nLibrarians also aid in the procurement of items needed for private book club meetings. They are able to withhold multiple copies of a publication and extend loan periods. They are also able to facilitate club meetings digitally, through discussion boards or video meetings. Many librarians note the positive influence of Google+ hangouts and Skype to host meetings for long distance club members and for times in which all members could not attend the club. Librarians have helped non-traditional book clubs find footing within their community.\n\nWith the challenge that not all members of a club can regularly meet at an appointed place and time, a new form of book clubs has emerged online. Online clubs exist in the shape of Internet forums, Yahoo Groups, e-mail mailing lists, dedicated websites, such as Goodreads.com, apps such as Novellic and even telephone conference calls. Also, in the category of social networks, these online clubs are made up of members of a variety of reading interests and often approach book discussion in different ways, e.g. academic discussion, pleasure-reading discussion, personal connection, and reaction to books members read.\n\nIn 2012, a new book club format referred to as author-led book clubs was introduced by Business Book Club \"12 Books.\" Author led book clubs include the author of the current book as part of the discussion; it often concludes the discussion with a live conference call or webinar.\n\nA broadcast club is one in which a television, radio, or podcast show features a regular segment that presents a discussion of a book. The segment is announced in advance so that viewers or listeners may read the book prior to the broadcast discussion. Some notable broadcast book discussion clubs include:\n\n\nGiven the busy lifestyles of today, another variation on the traditional 'book club' is the book reading club. In such a club, the group agrees on a specific book, and each week (or whatever frequency), one person in the group reads the book out loud while the rest of the group listens. The group can either allow interruptions for comments and questions from the members at any time, or agree to allow such input at chapter or section endings. Such a club makes reading a shared experience and frees the busy members from the \"homework\" of having read the book before coming to the club. It also creates a lively environment for commenting on the specifics of the books as it is read and can lead to very enriching exchanges. A given book may continue for several sittings, depending on the pace of reading, frequency of meetings, and the extent of comments and discussion. Members can take turns reading to share the reading responsibility. Another variation on the concept could be jointly listening to an audio-book with pauses for comments. Once a book is completed, members recommend their choices of the new books and vote on which book to proceed with next.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23898662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23898662", "title": "Central Board of Secondary Education", "text": "Central Board of Secondary Education\n\nThe Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is a national level board of education in India for public and private schools, controlled and managed by Union Government of India. CBSE has asked all schools affiliated to follow only NCERT curriculum. There are approximately 19,316 schools in India and 211 schools in 25 foreign countries affiliated to the CBSE.\n\nThe first education board to be set up in India was the Uttar Pradesh Board of High School and Intermediate Education in 1921, which was under jurisdiction of Rajputana, Central India and Gwalior. In 1929, the government of India set up a joint Board named \"Board of High School and Intermediate Education, Rajputana\". This included Ajmer, Merwara, Central India and Gwalior. Later it was confined to Ajmer, Bhopal and Vindhya Pradesh. In 1952, it became the \"Central Board of Secondary Education\".\n\nCBSE affiliates all Kendriya Vidyalayas, all Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas, private schools and most of the schools approved by central government of India.\n\nCBSE conducts the final examinations for Class 10 and Class 12 every year in the month of March. The results are announced by the end of May. The board earlier conducted the AIEEE Examination for admission to undergraduate courses in engineering and architecture in colleges across India. However the AIEEE exam was merged with the IIT-Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) in 2013. The common examination is now called JEE(Main). \n\nCBSE also conducts AIPMT (All India Pre Medical Test) for admission to major medical colleges in India. In 2014, the conduct of the National Eligibility Test for grant of junior research fellowship and eligibility for assistant professor in institutions of higher learning was outsourced to CBSE.\nApart from these tests, CBSE also conducts the central teachers eligibility test and the Class X optional proficiency test.\nWith the addition of NET in 2014, the CBSE has become the largest exam conducting body in the world.\n\nOn 10 November 2017, Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, cleared a proposal for creation of a National Testing Agency (NTA) which will conduct various entrance examinations. Currently, Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) conducts Joint Engineering Entrance (JEE) Exam, National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), Central Teacher Eligibility Test (twice a year) UGC’s National Eligibility Test (twice a year) and the entrance test for Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas.\n\nFor promotion from Secondary (Class 10) to Senior Secondary (Class 11-12), a student must obtain, for all subjects (or best 5 if 6 subjects are taken),\n\n33% overall, without any minimum theory mark requirement. \n\nOriginally, the passing criteria was set such that a student had to get 33% in \"both\" the theory and practical components. However, an exemption was initially granted for students writing the exam in 2018 as they went through the old CCE system in the previous year . However, CBSE later extended this relief for students writing the exam from 2019 and later as well .\n\nFor a student who does not manage to pass up to two subjects, he/she can write the compartment in those subjects in July. For those who fail the compartment, or those who fail in three subjects or more, he/she must rewrite all the subjects taken in the next year.\n\n33% overall, with 33% in both theory and practical components (if available).\n\nFor a student who does not manage to pass in exactly one subject, he/she can write the compartment for that subject in July. For those who fail the compartment, or those who fail in two subjects or more, he/she must rewrite all the subjects taken in the next year.\n\nFor the Class 10 and Class 12 exams, CBSE (along with the marks obtained) includes the \"positional\" grade obtained by the student, which is dependent on the average performance of the students in that subject. Consequently, the cutoffs required to obtain a particular grade vary every year.\n\nThe cutoffs required to obtain a particular grade in 2018 are listed below: \n\nDuring 2010-2017, when CBSE implemented a CCE (Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation) for grade 10 students, only the grades obtained by the student were mentioned in the report card in a 9-point grading scale, which translates as below:\nIt is the practice adopted by CBSE of 'tweaking' candidates' marks to account for paper difficulties and variations. This has been criticized in the past for inflating students' marks in a hyper-competitive society where even one mark counts, and CBSE is in the process of ending it. In 2017, CBSE informed that it would end moderation entirely, but was hit with a court case and the Delhi High Court ruled that moderation should continue for that year .\n\nTill 2018, moderation was applied to account for variations in region sets (as then students in different regions would be answering different question papers). Since 2018, when everyone around the world answers the same questions, this practice was renamed as \"standardisation,\" with the CBSE gradually phasing out the practice with the reduction on subjects which were given the offset.\n\nIn 2018, Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry and Accountancy were given offset of +9, Business Studies given +6, and English given a +3 offset. \n\nThe total mark obtained by a student through moderation cannot exceed 95; if so, it is \"capped\" at 95 unless the student's actual mark is 96 or more. This is the reason a mark of 95 is relatively common for such subjects, and why it is \"much\" tougher to get 96 than to get a 95.\n\nModeration was also applied in the infamous CBSE Class 12 mathematics papers of 2015 and 2016, wherein the paper created a huge furore as students and teachers complained that the paper was too tough. Despite a reportedly heavy offset of +16 (+15 for Delhi) , students' marks reduced (especially for 2016), as while the A1 cutoff was stable (90), the A2 cutoff reduced to 77, with other grades also experiencing a dip in cutoff.\n\nModeration can also take the form of giving \"grace\" marks to enable students who have scored near the pass mark to pass. This is the reason marks between 25 and 33 are unheard of in subjects like Mathematics, and also explains why the difference between D1 and D2 cutoff is sometimes very small.\nIn March 2018, there were reports that CBSE Class 10 mathematics and Class 12 economics question papers were leaked. In response, CBSE announced that these exams will be cancelled and re-exams will be conducted. However, CBSE later announced that there will be no re-exam for Class 10 mathematics paper because the paper leak may have been confined to a few alleged beneficiaries.\n\nOn 7 April 2018, Rakesh Kumar (an economics teacher) and two other employees of a private school in Una, Himachal Pradesh were arrested for leaking the Class 12 economics paper. According to the police, Rakesh Kumar had gone inside the strong room of a bank to pick up packets of computer science question papers but also picked up a packet of economics question paper. He asked a student to make a handwritten copy of the question paper (to avoid being traced from the handwriting). He then sent photos of the handwritten copy of the paper on WhatsApp to a relative in Punjab. This relative shared the photos with her son and nephew, who shared them with their friends on WhatsApp groups, from where it was forwarded to other Whatsapp groups.\n\nOn 12 April 2018, the police said that Rakesh Kumar, who leaked the class 12 economics paper, had leaked class 10 mathematics paper also.\n\nConsequently, the Central Board of Secondary Education has put in place a system of “encrypted” question papers, which are supposed to be printed by the schools half an hour before the exam starts.\n\nPresently CBSE has 10 regional offices:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3723853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3723853", "title": "Cheryl Kennedy", "text": "Cheryl Kennedy\n\nCheryl Kennedy (born 29 April 1947) is an English actress.\n\nShe was born in Enfield, Middlesex, educated at a convent.\n\nHer first appearance was at the age of 15 at Stratford East Theatre Workshop in \"What a Crazy World\". She enjoyed success as a stage actress, notably in West End musicals such as the 1967 revival of \"The Boy Friend\". Other West End theatre credits included 'Victoria' in \"Half a Sixpence\" where she starred alongside Tommy Steele at the Cambridge Theatre, 'Winnie' in \"The Matchgirls\", 'Belinda' in \"Jorrocks\" at the New Theatre and Alan Ayckbourn's \"Absent Friends\" at the Garrick Theatre. In 1977 she appeared as Maggie in \"Teeth 'n' Smiles\" at the Oxford Playhouse.\n\nShe starred alongside Michael Crawford in a production of \"Flowers for Algernon\" at the Queen's Theatre and features on the original London cast recording of the show. She appeared in the TV musical \"Pickwick\" for the BBC in 1969. During the 1970s she appeared in several British films, including the \"Lust\" segment of \"The Magnificent Seven Deadly Sins\" (1971) and as Jo Mason in the Dick Emery film \"Ooh... You Are Awful\" (1972). Television credits include \"The Strauss Family\", \"The Sweeney\", \"Schalcken the Painter\", \"Hari-Kari and Sally\", \"When the Bough Breaks\", \"It's a Lovely Day Tomorrow\" and \"Time and Time Again\", both for ATV. For ITV she was in an episode of the series \"The Professionals\".\n\nKennedy took the role of Liza Doolittle opposite Rex Harrison in a 1980 revival of the 1950s Broadway production of \"My Fair Lady\". Her casting was initially challenged by Actor's Equity because she had been chosen ahead of more than 50 American actress finalists but Rex Harrison insisted that a British-born actress should take the part; additionally, Mike Merrick, the show's producer, maintained that her singing ability, her experience in musicals in London's West End and the authenticity she would bring as a result of her and her parents lives in the London area made her uniquely qualified for the role. From the show's opening in New Orleans in September 1980, she continued in the role for nearly a year as it toured American cities. Shortly before it began a run on Broadway at the Uris Theater on 18 August 1981, she was forced to withdraw after a physician diagnosed nodes on her vocal cords; Nancy Ringham, her understudy, assumed the role in what was her Broadway debut.\n\nIn 1973 she married actor Tom Courtenay, but they later divorced.\n\n"}
{"id": "43375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43375", "title": "Communitarianism", "text": "Communitarianism\n\nCommunitarianism is a philosophy that emphasizes the connection between the individual and the community. Its overriding philosophy is based upon the belief that a person's social identity and personality are largely molded by community relationships, with a smaller degree of development being placed on individualism. Although the community might be a family, communitarianism usually is understood, in the wider, philosophical sense, as a collection of interactions, among a community of people in a given place (geographical location), or among a community who share an interest or who share a history. Communitarianism usually opposes extreme individualism and disagrees with extreme laissez-faire policies that neglect the stability of the overall community.\n\nThe philosophy of communitarianism originated in the 20th century, but the term \"communitarian\" was coined in 1841, by John Goodwyn Barmby, a leader of the British Chartist movement, who used it in referring to utopian socialists, and other idealists, who experimented with communal styles of life. However, it was not until the 1980s that the term \"communitarianism\" gained currency through association with the work of a small group of political philosophers. Their application of the label \"communitarian\" was controversial, even among communitarians, because, in the West, the term \"communitarian\" evokes associations with the ideologies of socialism and collectivism; so, public leaders—and some of the academics who champion this school of thought—usually avoid the term \"communitarian\", while still advocating and advancing the ideas of communitarianism.\n\nThe term is primarily used in two senses:\n\nWhile the term communitarian was coined only in the mid-nineteenth century, ideas that are communitarian in nature appear much earlier. They are found in some classical socialist doctrine (e.g. writings about the early commune and about workers' solidarity), and further back in the New Testament. Communitarianism has been traced back to early monasticism, but in the twentieth century began to be formulated as a philosophy by Dorothy Day and the Catholic Worker movement. In an early article the \"Catholic Worker\" clarified the dogma of the Mystical Body of Christ as the basis for the movement's communitarianism. Communitarianism is also related to the personalist philosophy of Emmanuel Mounier.\n\nA number of early sociologists had strongly communitarian elements in their work, such as Ferdinand Tönnies in his comparison of Gemeinschaft (oppressive but nurturing communities) and Gesellschaft (liberating but impersonal societies), and Emile Durkheim's concerns about the integrating role of social values and the relations between the individual and society. Both authors warned of the dangers of anomie (normlessness) and alienation in modern societies composed of atomized individuals who had gained their liberty but lost their social moorings. Modern sociologists saw the rise of a mass society and the decline of communal bonds and respect for traditional values and authority in the United States as of the 1960s. Among those who raised these issues were Robert Nisbet (Twilight of Authority), Robert N. Bellah (Habits of the Heart), and Alan Ehrenhalt (The Lost City: The Forgotten Virtues Of Community In America). In his book Bowling Alone (2000), Robert Putnam documented the decline of \"social capital\" and stressed the importance of \"bridging social capital,\" in which bonds of connectedness are formed across diverse social groups.\n\nResponding to criticism that the term 'community' is too vague or cannot be defined, Amitai Etzioni, one of the leaders of the American communitarian movement, pointed out that communities can be defined with reasonable precision as having two characteristics: first, a web of affect-laden relationships among a group of individuals, relationships that often crisscross and reinforce one another (as opposed to one-on-one or chain-like individual relationships); and second, a measure of commitment to a set of shared values, norms, and meanings, and a shared history and identity – in short, a particular culture. Further, author David E. Pearson argued that \"[t]o earn the appellation 'community,' it seems to me, groups must be able to exert moral suasion and extract a measure of compliance from their members. That is, communities are necessarily, indeed, by definition, coercive as well as moral, threatening their members with the stick of sanctions if they stray, offering them the carrot of certainty and stability if they don't.\"\n\nWhat is specifically meant by \"community\" in the context of communitarianism can vary greatly between authors and time periods. Historically, communities have been small and localized. However, as the reach of economic and technological forces extended, more-expansive communities became necessary in order to provide effective normative and political guidance to these forces, prompting the rise of national communities in Europe in the 17th century. Since the late 20th century there has been some growing recognition that the scope of even these communities is too limited, as many challenges that people now face, such as the threat of nuclear war and that of global environmental degradation and economic crises, cannot be handled on a national basis. This has led to the quest for more-encompassing communities, such as the European Union. Whether truly supra-national communities can be developed is far from clear.\n\nMore modern communities can take many different forms, but are often limited in scope and reach. For example, members of one residential community are often also members of other communities – such as work, ethnic, or religious ones. As a result, modern community members have multiple sources of attachments, and if one threatens to become overwhelming, individuals will often pull back and turn to another community for their attachments.\n\nThus, communitarianism is the reaction of some intellectuals to the problems of Western society, an attempt to find flexible forms of balance between the individual and society, the autonomy of the individual and the interests of the community, between the common good and freedom, rights and duties.\n\nIn moral and political philosophy, communitarians are best known for their critiques of John Rawls' political liberalism, detailed at length in his book \"A Theory of Justice\". Communitarians criticize the image Rawls presents of humans as atomistic individuals, and stress that individuals who are well-integrated into communities are better able to reason and act in responsible ways than isolated individuals, but add that if social pressure to conform rises to high levels, it will undermine the individual self. Communitarians uphold the importance of the social realm, and communities in particular, though they differ in the extent to which their conceptions are attentive to liberty and individual rights. Even with these general similarities, communitarians, like members of many other schools of thought, differ considerably from one another. There are several distinct (and at times wildly divergent) schools of communitarian thought.\n\nThe following authors have communitarian tendencies in the philosophical sense, but have all taken pains to distance themselves from the political ideology known as communitarianism, which is discussed further below:\n\nWhereas the classical liberalism of the Enlightenment can be viewed as a reaction to centuries of authoritarianism, oppressive government, overbearing communities, and rigid dogma, modern communitarianism can be considered a reaction to excessive individualism, understood as an undue emphasis on individual rights, leading people to become selfish or egocentric.\n\nThe close relation between the individual and the community was discussed on a theoretical level by Michael Sandel and Charles Taylor, among other academic communitarians, in their criticisms of philosophical liberalism, especially the work of the American liberal theorist John Rawls and that of the German Enlightenment philosopher Immanuel Kant. They argued that contemporary liberalism failed to account for the complex set of social relations that all individuals in the modern world are a part of. Liberalism is rooted in an untenable ontology that posits the existence of generic individuals and fails to account for social embeddeddness. To the contrary, they argued, there are no generic individuals but rather only Germans or Russians, Berliners or Muscovites, or members of some other particularistic community. Because individual identity is partly constructed by culture and social relations, there is no coherent way of formulating individual rights or interests in abstraction from social contexts. Thus, according to these communitarians, there is no point in attempting to found a theory of justice on principles decided behind Rawls' veil of ignorance, because individuals cannot exist in such an abstracted state, even in principle.\n\nAcademic communitarians also contend that the nature of the political community is misunderstood by liberalism. Where liberal philosophers described the polity as a neutral framework of rules within which a multiplicity of commitments to moral values can coexist, academic communitarians argue that such a thin conception of political community was both empirically misleading and normatively dangerous. Good societies, these authors believe, rest on much more than neutral rules and procedures—they rely on a shared moral culture. Some academic communitarians argued even more strongly on behalf of such particularistic values, suggesting that these were the only kind of values which matter and that it is a philosophical error to posit any truly universal moral values.\n\nIn addition to Charles Taylor and Michael Sandel, other thinkers sometimes associated with academic communitarianism include Michael Walzer, Alasdair MacIntyre, Seyla Benhabib, and Shlomo Avineri.\n\nBeginning in the late 20th century, many authors began to observe a deterioration in the social networks of the United States. In the book \"Bowling Alone\", Robert Putnam observed that nearly every form of civic organization has undergone drops in membership exemplified by the fact that, while more people are bowling than in the 1950s, there are fewer bowling leagues.\n\nThis results in a decline in \"social capital\", described by Putnam as \"the collective value of all 'social networks' and the inclinations that arise from these networks to do things for each other\". According to Putnam and his followers, social capital is a key component to building and maintaining democracy.\n\nCommunitarians seek to bolster social capital and the institutions of civil society. The Responsive Communitarian Platform described it thus:\n\nImportant to some supporters of communitarian philosophy is the concept of positive rights, which are rights or guarantees to certain things. These may include state-subsidized education, state-subsidized housing, a safe and clean environment, universal health care, and even the right to a job with the concomitant obligation of the government or individuals to provide one. To this end, communitarians generally support social security programs, public works programs, and laws limiting such things as pollution.\n\nA common objection is that by providing such rights, communitarians violate the negative rights of the citizens; rights to \"not\" have something done for you. For example, taxation to pay for such programs as described above dispossesses individuals of property. Proponents of positive rights, by attributing the protection of negative rights to the society rather than the government, respond that individuals would not have any rights in the absence of societies—a central tenet of communitarianism—and thus have a social responsibility to give something back to it. Some have viewed this as a negation of natural rights. However, what is or is not a \"natural right\" is a source of contention in modern politics, as well as historically; for example, whether or not universal health care, private property or protection from polluters can be considered a birthright.\n\nAlternatively, some agree that negative rights may be violated by a government action, but argue that it is justifiable if the positive rights protected outweigh the negative rights lost. In the same vein, supporters of positive rights further argue that negative rights are irrelevant in their absence. Moreover, some communitarians \"experience this less as a case of being used for others' ends and more as a way of contributing to the purposes of a community I regard as my own\".\n\nStill other communitarians question the very idea of natural rights and their place in a properly functioning community. They claim that instead, claims of rights and entitlements creates a society unable to form cultural institutions and grounded social norms based on shared values. Rather, the liberalist claim to individual rights leads to a morality centered on individual emotivism, as ethical issues can no longer be solved by working through common understandings of the good. The worry here is that not only is society individualized, but so are moral claims.\n\nIn the early 1990s, in response to the perceived breakdown in the moral fabric of society engendered by excessive individualism, Amitai Etzioni and William A. Galston began to organize working meetings to think through communitarian approaches to key societal issues. This ultimately took the communitarian philosophy from a small academic group, introduced it into public life, and recast its philosophical content.\n\nDeeming themselves \"responsive communitarians\" in order to distinguish the movement from authoritarian communitarians, Etzioni and Galston, along with a varied group of academics (including Mary Ann Glendon, Thomas A. Spragens, James Fishkin, Benjamin Barber, Hans Joas, Philip Selznick, and Robert N. Bellah, among others) drafted and published The Responsive Communitarian Platform based on their shared political principles, and the ideas in it were eventually elaborated in academic and popular books and periodicals, gaining thereby a measure of political currency in the West. Etzioni later formed the Communitarian Network to study and promote communitarian approaches to social issues and began publishing a quarterly journal, \"The Responsive Community\".\n\nThe main thesis of responsive communitarianism is that people face two major sources of normativity: that of the common good and that of autonomy and rights, neither of which in principle should take precedence over the other. This can be contrasted with other political and social philosophies which derive their core assumptions from one overarching principle (such as liberty/autonomy for libertarianism). It further posits that a good society is based on a carefully crafted balance between liberty and social order, between individual rights and personal responsibility, and between pluralistic and socially established values.\n\nResponsive communitarianism stresses the importance of society and its institutions above and beyond that of the state and the market, which are often the focus of other political philosophies. It also emphasizes the key role played by socialization, moral culture, and informal social controls rather than state coercion or market pressures. It provides an alternative to liberal individualism and a major counterpoint to authoritarian communitarianism by stressing that strong rights presume strong responsibilities and that one should not be neglected in the name of the other.\n\nFollowing standing sociological positions, communitarians assume that the moral character of individuals tends to degrade over time unless that character is continually and communally reinforced. They contend that a major function of the community, as a building block of moral infrastructure, is to reinforce the character of its members through the community's \"moral voice,\" defined as the informal sanction of others, built into a web of informal affect-laden relationships, which communities provide.\n\nResponsive communitarians have been playing a considerable public role, presenting themselves as the founders of a different kind of environmental movement, one dedicated to shoring up society (as opposed to the state) rather than nature. Like environmentalism, communitarianism appeals to audiences across the political spectrum, although it has found greater acceptance with some groups than others.\n\nAlthough communitarianism is a small philosophical school, it has had considerable influence on public dialogues and politics. There are strong similarities between communitarian thinking and the Third Way, the political thinking of centrist Democrats in the United States, and the Neue Mitte in Germany. Communitarianism played a key role in Tony Blair's remaking of the British socialist Labour Party into \"New Labour\" and a smaller role in President Bill Clinton's campaigns. Other politicians have echoed key communitarian themes, such as Hillary Clinton, who has long held that to raise a child takes not just parents, family, friends and neighbors, but a whole village.\n\n<nowiki> It has also been suggested that the \"</nowiki>compassionate conservatism\" espoused by President Bush during his 2000 presidential campaign was a form of conservative communitarian thinking, though he too did not implement it in his policy program. Cited policies have included economic and rhetorical support for education, volunteerism, and community programs, as well as a social emphasis on promoting families, character education, traditional values, and faith-based projects.\n\nPresident Barack Obama gave voice to communitarian ideas and ideals in his book \"The Audacity of Hope\", and during the 2008 presidential election campaign he repeatedly called upon Americans to \"ground our politics in the notion of a common good,\" for an \"age of responsibility,\" and for foregoing identity politics in favor of community-wide unity building. However, for many in the West, the term communitarian conjures up authoritarian and collectivist associations, so many public leaders – and even several academics considered champions of this school – avoid the term while embracing and advancing its ideas.\n\nReflecting the dominance of liberal and conservative politics in the United States, no major party and few elected officials openly advocate communitarianism. Thus there is no consensus on individual policies, but some that most communitarians endorse have been enacted. Nonetheless, there is a small faction of communitarians within the Democratic Party; prominent communitarians include Bob Casey Jr., Joe Donnelly, and Claire McCaskill. Many communitarian Democrats are part of the Blue Dog Coalition. A small communitarian faction within the Republican Party also exists. Rick Santorum is an example of a communitarian Republican. It is quite possible that the United States' right-libertarian ideological underpinnings have suppressed major communitarian factions from emerging.\n\nDana Milbank, writing in the \"Washington Post\", remarked of modern communitarians, \"There is still no such thing as a card-carrying communitarian, and therefore no consensus on policies. Some, such as John DiIulio and outside Bush adviser Marvin Olasky, favor religious solutions for communities, while others, like Etzioni and Galston, prefer secular approaches.\"\n\nIn August 2011, the right-libertarian \"Reason Magazine\" worked with the Rupe organization to survey 1,200 Americans by telephone. The Reason-Rupe poll found that \"Americans cannot easily be bundled into either the 'liberal' or 'conservative' groups\". Specifically, 28% expressed conservative views, 24% expressed libertarian views, 20% expressed communitarian views, and 28% expressed liberal views. The margin of error was ±3.\n\nA similar Gallup survey in 2011 included possible centrist/moderate responses. That poll reported that 17% expressed conservative views, 22% expressed libertarian views, 20% expressed communitarian views, 17% expressed centrist views, and 24% expressed liberal views. The organization used the terminology \"the bigger the better\" to describe communitarianism.\n\nThe Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf party, founded and led by Imran Khan, is considered the first political party in the world which has declared communitarianism as one of their official ideologies.\n\nEarly communitarians were charged with being, in effect, social conservatives. However, many contemporary communitarians, especially those who define themselves as responsive communitarians, fully realize and often stress that they do not seek to return to traditional communities, with their authoritarian power structure, rigid stratification, and discriminatory practices against minorities and women. Responsive communitarians seek to build communities based on open participation, dialogue, and truly shared values. Linda McClain, a critic of communitarians, recognizes this feature of the responsive communitarians, writing that some communitarians do \"recognize the need for careful evaluation of what is good and bad about [any specific] tradition and the possibility of severing certain features . . . from others.\" And R. Bruce Douglass writes, \"Unlike conservatives, communitarians are aware that the days when the issues we face as a society could be settled on the basis of the beliefs of a privileged segment of the population have long since passed.\"\n\nOne major way the communitarian position differs from the social conservative one is that although communitarianism's ideal \"good society\" \"reaches into the private realm, it seeks to cultivate only a limited set of core virtues through an organically developed set of values rather than having an expansive or holistically normative agenda given by the state. For example, American society favors being religious over being atheist, but is rather neutral with regard to which particular religion a person should follow. There are no state-prescribed dress codes, \"correct\" number of children to have, or places one is expected to live, etc. In short, a key defining characteristic of the ideal communitarian society is that in contrast to a liberal state, it creates shared formulations of the good, but the scope of this good is much smaller than that advanced by authoritarian societies.\"\n\nAuthoritarian governments often embrace extremist ideologies and rule with brute force, accompanied with severe restrictions on personal freedom, political and civil rights. Authoritarian governments are overt about the role of the government as director and commander. Civil society and democracy are not generally characteristic of authoritarian regimes.\n\nLiberal theorists such as Simon Caney disagree that philosophical communitarianism has any interesting criticisms to make of liberalism. They reject the communitarian charges that liberalism neglects the value of community, and holds an \"atomized\" or asocial view of the self.\n\nAccording to Peter Sutch the principal criticisms of communitarianism are:\nHowever, he goes on to show that such arguments cannot be leveled against the particular communitarian theories of Michael Walzer and Mervyn Frost.\n\nOther critics emphasize close relation of communitarianism to neoliberalism and new policies of dismantling the welfare state institutions through development of the third sector.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57019406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57019406", "title": "Degree apprenticeship", "text": "Degree apprenticeship\n\nIn 2015, the UK Government rolled out the degree apprenticeship programme which was developed as part of the higher apprenticeship standard. The programme is the equivalent of a masters or bachelor's degree which offers a level 6 – 7 qualification. Training for this qualification includes working in a full-time job as well as studying at a partner University or training provider.\n\nDegree apprenticeships have been designed for learners 18 years of age or older.\n\nCandidates interested in this programme must already have a level-3 qualification such as an advanced apprenticeship, A levels or an International Baccalaureat. However, some programmes may require further training.\n"}
{"id": "18696485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18696485", "title": "Dr. Manuel Pizarro Technical School", "text": "Dr. Manuel Pizarro Technical School\n\nThe EET N°479 Dr. Manuel Pizarro (\"Escuela de Educación Técnica n°479 \"Dr. Manuel Demetrio Pizarro\") is a public technical high school located in downtown Santa Fe, Argentina. Founded in 1932, it offers professional, technical, and chemical programs.\n\nThe school consists of 32 classrooms of which 14 are for classes, three large classrooms and three workshops aimed at teaching Computer and Multimedia, a staff room, the regency, address, vicedirección, head of the workshop, Boards of Chemistry, the central courtyard, two lobbies, preceptoria, room cleaning, bathing men (the biggest), women's bathroom, two rooms Technical drawing (an extensive and another waning).\nThe years of course are six and are in March to November, for all courses.\n\nThe workshops are from school rooms or barns where are the manifest activity \"axis\" of the school, being technical.\n\nThe establishment was founded 17 February 1932 as the \"School of Arts and Crafts\", in a house at Mariano Comas No. 2441, teaching metalwork, carpentry and small business management. In 1936, it was renamed as \"School of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering\".\n\nOn April 9, 1941, the new building, at Av. Gral. Peace 4250, was inaugurated, called \"Dr. Manuel D. Pizarro\" for a Minister of Public Instruction. To encourage technical education, the number of trades taught was extended.\n\n"}
{"id": "41773766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41773766", "title": "ETEC Lauro Gomes", "text": "ETEC Lauro Gomes\n\nETEC Lauro Gomes, formerly known as ETE Lauro Gomes, ETI Lauro Gomes and Escola Técnica Industrial de São Bernardo do Campo is an educational facility located in São Bernardo do Campo, SP, Brazil. It offers secondary education and vocational education classes. It is named after Lauro Gomes de Almeida, mayor for São Bernardo do Campo between 1952 and 1954 and 1960 to 1963.\nETEC Lauro Gomes is adjoined to São Paulo Technical School System, conducted by CEETEPS (Centro Estadual de Educação Tecnológica Paula Souza), an independent government body designed to govern technical schools and faculties in São Paulo.\n\nSão Bernardo do Campo, a municipality neighboring São Paulo, started to experience a fast growth of the manufacturing sector after the inauguration of Via Anchieta, a road linking São Paulo to Santos crossing the town. In the 1950s, the traditional furniture making industry began to share space with other activities, such as pharmaceutical, home appliances and specially automotive. In 1958, Willys-Overland, Mercedes-Benz and Volkswagen already had plants in the city, thus demanding skilled workers.\n\nIn 1956 the Ministry of Education and Culture - MEC granted a ₢$ 20 million appropriation for the installment of the school, and in 1957 the state decree no. 3734 was established by Governor Jânio Quadros to enforce the partnership among the São Paulo Government, the Brazilian Ministry of Education and Culture and the São Bernardo do Campo Government to establish the facility. The construction has been started in 1958 at a site.\nIn 1964 a council was set to manage a cooperation agreement between the Brazilian government and the former Federal Republic of Germany government to allow the latter to provide equipment, techniques and teachers to improve the teaching level in the school. Such agreement would allow the insertion of German educators for five years into the facility to be gradually substituted by their Brazilian counterparts. However, in 1967, the agreement was not fully operational as the school still was in construction, with a 60% completion rate and offering the construction of machines and engines as its only course, although the Industrial Engineering Faculty of the Pontifical Catholic University of São Paulo (now known as Centro Universitário da FEI) already was using part of the facilities. In the year before, the school has been named Lauro Gomes after the former city mayor died in 1964.\n\nIn the 1970s other programs have been started, such as electronics, electrotechnics, designing of tools and machining fixtures, and industrial laboratory technician. The Electronic data processing course has been established in 1985.\n\nIn 1980, state decree no. 16309 ordered the school to join Centro Paula Souza, effective January 1, 1981, thus being one of the state-managed technical schools in São Paulo. The law has been enacted by Governor Paulo Maluf.\n\nThe vocational program and the high school programs were fused into a single lesson plan, the latter frequently adapted to match the skills needed in the first one. However the national technical education reform of 1997 deterred, in practice, the continuation of such scheme, stating only 25% of the full educational schedule could be allocated for vocational lessons. Although such resolution has been superseded in 2004, the liaisons between the vocational and the high school classes were reinstalled as an option, thus allowing the continuation of separate courses offering.\n\nAs of 2014, along with the high school classes, the following vocational habilitations are available:\n\n\nAdmission to the school involves an exam called \"vestibulinho\" (Portuguese diminutive form of vestibular, the most dominant admission test employed for those seeking to ingress in a college in Brazil). It is a multiple choice test combined with a written composition.\n\n"}
{"id": "26737961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26737961", "title": "English Braille", "text": "English Braille\n\nEnglish Braille, also known as \"Grade 2 Braille\", is the braille alphabet used for English. It consists of 250 or so letters (phonograms), numerals, punctuation, formatting marks, contractions, and abbreviations (logograms). Some English Braille letters, such as , correspond to more than one letter in print.\n\nThere are three levels of complexity in English Braille. Grade 1 is a nearly one-to-one transcription of printed English and is restricted to basic literacy. Grade 2, which is nearly universal beyond basic literacy materials, abandons one-to-one transcription in many places (such as the letter ) and adds hundreds of abbreviations and contractions. Both grades have been standardized. \"Grade 3\" is any of various personal shorthands. It is almost never found in publications. Most of this article describes the 1994 American edition of Grade 2 Braille, which is largely equivalent to British Grade 2 Braille. Some of the differences with Unified English Braille, which was officially adopted by various countries between 2005 and 2012, are discussed at the end.\n\nBraille was originally intended, and is frequently portrayed, as a re-encoding of the English orthography used by sighted people. However, braille is an independent writing system, not a variant of the printed English alphabet.\n\nBraille was introduced to Britain in 1861. In 1876, a French-based system with a few hundred English contractions and abbreviations was adopted as the predominant script in Great Britain. However, the contractions and abbreviations proved unsatisfactory, and in 1902 the current grade-2 system, called Revised Braille, was adopted in the British Commonwealth. In 1878, the ideal of basing all braille alphabets of the world on the original French alphabetic order was accepted by Britain, Germany, and Egypt (see International Braille). In the United States at the time, three scripts were used: non-braille New York Point; American Braille, which was reordered so that the most frequent letters were the ones with the fewest dots; and a variation of English Braille, which was reordered to match the English alphabet, assigning the values \"wxyz\" to the letters that, in France and England, stood for \"xyzç\". A partially contracted English Braille, Grade 1½, was adopted in Britain in 1918, and fully contracted Grade 2, with a few minor concessions to the Americans, was adopted in 1932. The concessions were to swap the British two-dot capital sign with the one-dot emphasis sign, which had generally been omitted anyway (as capitals had been in New York Point), to drop a few religious contractions from general usage, and to introduce a rule stating that contractions and abbreviations should not span 'major' syllable boundaries.\n\nIn 1991, an American proposal was made for Unified English Braille, intended to eliminate the confusion caused by competing standards for academic uses of English Braille. After several design revisions, it has since been adopted by the Commonwealth countries starting in 2005, and by the United States (starting a gradual introduction after 2012). The chief differences with Revised Braille are in punctuation, symbols, and formatting, more accurately reflecting print conventions in matters such as brackets, mathematical notation, and typefaces.\n\nThe 64 braille patterns are arranged into decades based on the numerical order of those patterns. The first decade are the numerals 1 through 0, which utilize only the top and mid row of the cell; the 2nd through 4th decades are derived from the first by adding dots to the bottom row; the 5th decade is created by shifting the first decade downwards. In addition, for each decade there are two additional mirror-image patterns, and finally there are three patterns that utilize only the bottom row of the cell. The final pattern, the empty cell , is used as a space; it has the same width as the others.\n\nCells 1 through 25 plus 40 (\"w\") are assigned to the 26 letters of the basic Latin alphabet. The other 37 cells are often used for punctuation and typically assigned different values in different languages. The English grade-two values are as follows; cells with dots on only the right side do not have equivalents in printed English and are explained in the notes.\n\nThe English Braille alphabet has letters that correspond directly to the 26 letters of the English print alphabet, but also ligatures that are equivalent to digraphs and sequences in print.\n\nSome of these ligatures transcribe common words, such as \"and\" or \"of\", but they are not words: Pronunciation and meaning are ignored, and only spelling is relevant. For example, is commonly used when the sequence of print letters \"the\" appears, not just for the word \"the\". That is, is the \"letter\" \"the\" in braille, as in the two-letter word \"then (the-n)\". Similarly, \"hand\" is written \"h-and\", \"roof\" (which sounds nothing like the word \"of\") is written \"r-o-of\", and \"forest\" is written with three letters in braille, \"for-e-st\". Numbers are used this way as well—\"7th\" is written \"#-7-th\", and here printed English approximates normal practice in braille. There are numerous conventions for when a print sequence is \"contracted\" this way in braille, and when it is spelled out in full.\n\nThe ligatures and may not begin a word (as in *\"bled\": would be read instead as ), but are used everywhere else (as in \"problem, trouble\").\n\nThe ligatures of the third decade, , take precedence over the letters of later decades. For example, \"then\" is written \"the-n\", not * \"th-en\". When standing as words adjacent to other such words, or to \"a\", no space is left between them. For example, \"and the, for a, with the, of a\" are all fused together.\n\nWhen printed \"ch, gh, sh, th\" are pronounced as two sounds, as in \"Shanghai, hogshead,\" and \"outhouse\", then they are written as two braille letters rather than with the ligatures . Generally, other ligatures should not be used if they might cause problems with legibility, as with the \"ing\" in \"lingerie\", though they tend to be with familiar words, such as \"ginger\" and \"finger\", even if their pronunciation is divided between syllables. None of the ligatures are to be used across the boundaries of compound words. For example, is not used in \"twofold\", nor in \"dumbbell\". The rules state that they should not span a prefix and stem either, so for example the \"ed\" in \"deduce\", the \"er\" of \"rerun\" and \"derail\", and the \"ble\" of \"sublet\" should be written out in full. In practice this is variable, as it depends upon the awareness of the writer. The \"of\" in \"professor\", for example, might not be recognized spanning prefix and stem, and no-one has a problem with \"a-cc-ept\" or \"a-dd-r-e-s-s\", despite the technical violation. There is also conflict with the overriding tendency to contract sequences that fall within a single syllable. So the same writer who divides the \"er\" in \"derive\" may allow the ligature in \"derivation\". A similar pattern emerges from suffixes: is not used in \"freedom\", since it spans stem and suffix, but is used in \"freed\", because it forms a single syllable with the stem. What is considered to constitute a prefix or suffix is somewhat arbitrary: is not used in \"Charlestown,\" for example, but it is in \"Charleston\". Ligatures may also not separate digraphs or diphthongs in print. For example, \"aerial\" does not use , \"Oedipus\" does not use , and \"tableau\" does not use . Also, it is normal to use the letter for the broken vowel in \"i-d-ea-s\" or \"c-r-ea-t-e\", despite it being pronounced as two sounds rather than one as in \"head\" or \"ocean\".\n\nLigatures should not be used for acronyms that are pronounced as a string of letters. That is, \"DEA\" should not use the letter , nor PST the letter . Such letters are acceptable in acronyms that are pronounced as a word, however, if the result is not obscure.\n\nThe letters of the fifth decade are often used in the past tense and other grammatical forms: when \"rub\" becomes \"rubbed\", in braille the letter is moved down a dot to indicate the \"bb\". However, those letters which double as punctuation marks——may only occur sandwiched in the middle of a word, not at the beginning or end, in order to avoid confusion with the punctuation. That is, *\"sea, ebb, add, cuff, egg\" must be spelled out in full, though the ligatures are used in \"season, added (a-dd-ed), cuffs,\" and \"eggs\". Because of legibility problems (see \"lower contractions\" in the next section), they may not come in contact with an apostrophe or hyphen either. That is, in \"egg's\" and \"egg-plant\", \"tea's\" and \"tea-time\", the \"gg\" and \"ea\" must be spelled out in full. If the print letters span an obvious affix, the braille ligature is not used (\"preamble, reanalyze, pineapple, subbasement\"), but they are used in words such as \"accept\" and \"address\" where the morphology has become opaque. In order to keep the spelling regular, compounds of words starting with \"ea\" keep the \"ea\" spelled out: \"uneasy, anteater, southeast\" do not use the ligature because \"easy, eater, east\" do not use it. These are the least-preferred ligatures: any other will be used instead. Thus \"wedding\" is \"w-ed-d-ing\" (not *\"we-dd-ing\") and \"office\" is \"of-f-i-c-e\" (not *\"o-ff-i-c-e\").\n\nMany of the rules for when to use ligatures, contractions, and abbreviations differ when a word is divided at the end of a line of text, because some of them may not come in contact with the hyphen that divides the word. See the references for details.\n\nThe accent mark shows that there is a diacritic on the following letter, as in \"señor\", \"façade\", \"café\", \"naïve\", and \"ångström\" . In normal braille text, noting the precise diacritic is not important, as it can be easily understood from context, or simply ignored. Where diacritics are critical, technical braille transcription must be used.\n\nA diacritic in a word of foreign origin prevents the accented letter from combining with another into a ligature. For example, \"señor\" is not written with the ligature as *, because it would not be clear if the accent were supposed to be on the \"e\" (as \"é\") or on the \"n\". However, English words are contracted. Thus \"blessèd\" is written , and \"coëducational\" is .\n\nBraille punctuation marks use the lower half of the cell except \"/\":\nBraille punctuation is somewhat variable, just as there is variation in printed English between curly and straight quotation marks. They fail to make some distinctions found in print. For example, both opening and closing parentheses are written , with spacing used to distinguish. On the other hand, braille makes several useful distinctions which print fails to make: The period is different from the decimal point , and the apostrophe and ditto mark are distinct from the single and double quotation marks.\n\nThe reference mark, or \"asterisk\" (), is used for all reference marks: *, †, ‡, etc., including numbered footnotes. Unlike the asterisk in printed English, it is spaced on both sides, apart from associated footnote letters or numbers, which follow it immediately. So, is transcribed , as is and ; the numbered footnote in is written .\n\nThe ditto mark, , which occupies two cells, is only used once per line, in contrast to normal practice in print.\n\nThe apostrophe and cap sign are used to compose additional punctuation. Added to parentheses, , they form brackets; added to quotation marks, , they form single quotation marks. Together, they form the \"termination sign\" . (See 'formatting marks' below.) Also , the section mark (§).\n\nThe accent mark (here called the \"print symbol indicator\") is used with punctuation when it stands alone, rather than suffixed to a word or number. For example, if someone's response in a dialogue is transcribed , in braille that would be written . It is also used to derive a few symbols: % , $ , & .\n\nTraditionally, mathematical symbols are spelled out (though Unified Braille has dedicated characters). So, \"2×5 ft.\" (read 'two-by-5 foot') is , and \"2:5\" (read 'two-to-five [scale]') is .\n\nBraille has several formatting marks, sometimes called \"composition signs\", \"register marks\", or \"indicators\", which have no one-to-one correspondence with printed English. These are the number sign , the letter sign , the capital sign , the italic sign (or more accurately the emphasis sign) , and the termination sign (written cap–apostrophe). These immediately precede the sequence (word or number) they modify, without an intervening space.\n\nAll characters \"a\" through \"j\" are interpreted as the digits \"1\" through \"0\" when they follow a number sign. This reading ignores intervening numerical and arithmetical symbols such as commas, decimal points, and fraction bars, until a non-number-compatible character, such as a period or a letter after J, is encountered, at which point reading reverts to the alphabetical values \"a–j\". The number sign is repeated after a slash that's not used a fraction bar (like \"model number 15/07\"). For example, (one twentieth) is , but 20/20 [vision] is . The braille number sign has no equivalent in print. It is sometimes transcribed as . However, this is misleading: an actual printed # is rendered in braille as , without an intervening space before the number sign .\n\nThe letter sign is used to force the end of a series of numbers. For example, preceded by a number sign, , is read as \"41\". If instead \"4a\" is intended (as in a section or apartment number), then the letter sign is used to force a reading of \"a\" rather than \"1\" for the final character: . It is also used to mark a character as standing for a letter rather than for a word. For example, on its own is normally read as the word \"but\"; to indicate that it is instead the letter \"b\", the letter sign is used: \"b\". Plurals of letters (\"mind your ps and qs\") always use an apostrophe in braille, but other derivations may not, as in \"nth [time]\": is \"Sing\", is \"S-ing/Essing\". The letter sign is also used to mark lower-case Roman numbers, as in .\n\nThe capital(ization) sign marks the first letter of a word as capitalized. It may occur in the middle of a word for camel case, as in the name \"deAngelo\". It is doubled to place a word in all caps; this must be repeated for each word of an all-cap text.\n\nThe emphasis (italic) sign marks emphatic formatting, equivalent to printed italic, bold, underlined, and small-capital text. A single italic sign emphasizes the entire word (or number). For two or three emphasized words, each takes a separate marker. For longer texts, a doubled marker is placed before the first word, and the end of the emphasis is indicated by marking the final emphasized word with a single italic sign.\n\nWhen the capitalization or emphasis does not span the entire word, the beginning and end is marked with a hyphen. However, if the print word already contains a hyphen, the termination sign is used for the end. So, is written , but is .\n\nThe comma prefixed to a letter indicates that it is to be read as non-Latin, so that for example would be if Greek symbols were being used.\nApart from words using the various abbreviations signs, covered in the next section, English Braille utilizes a number of unmarked contractions. These are similar to the contractions found in shorthand and stenoscript. As a rule, they are not used where they would obscure the text.\n\nThe single-letter contractions are:\n\nNote irregular for \"it\", for \"as\", and for \"were\". All 26 basic Latin letters are used apart from , which already form words of their own.\n\nThese contractions are either independent words or (in the cases of \"con-, com-, dis-, -self\") affixes, as in \"oneself\". They cannot be treated as simple letters. For example, while the letter stands for the pronoun \"it\", it cannot substitute for the sequence \"it\" in the word \"bite\". They cannot be pluralized: * is no good for \"(tin) cans\". This is true even of \"child\" not being usable for *\"grandchild\", nor \"out\" in *\"without\". (These must be spelled \"g-r-and-ch-i-l-d\" and \"with-ou-t\".) However, a following apostrophe is acceptable: \"people's\", \"can't\", \"it'll\"; as are hyphenated words like \"so-and-so\". This behavior is distinct from ligatures such as and , which are used when the equivalent sequences are found in printed English, as in \"red\" and \"need\".\n\nThere is no semantic restriction: \"can\" may be either the verb \"can\" or a tin \"can\", and capitalized and are names \"Will\" and \"More\". However, in the few cases where the basic letters would be words in their own right, they must be spelled out to avoid confusion. That is, because stands for \"shall\", it cannot be used for the word \"sh!\", which must be spelled out as \"s-h\". Similarly, can be used for \"St.\" (as either \"Saint\" or \"Street\") when marked as an abbreviation by a period, but otherwise should also be spelled out.\n\nBecause contractions that occupy only the lower half of the braille cell mostly double as basic punctuation marks, legibility requires that, with few exceptions, they may not come in contact with actual punctuation marks; if they would, they should instead be spelled out. That is, any cell which follows without an intervening space should contain a dot in its top row. Most of the difficulties of when to use contractions are due to this complication.\n\nThe whole-word contractions of the fifth decade are \"be\", \"enough\", \"to\", \"were\", \"his\", \"in\", \"by/was\". If one of these words occurs at the end of a sentence, or before a comma, it must be spelled out (though \"enough\" would still be partially contracted to \"en-ou-gh\".) They cannot even be used in hyphenated words such as \"bride-to-be\". However, much like Arabic prepositions, the prepositions , , and join with a following word without an intervening space. This prevents from being read as 'was'. That is, in \"He came by to see us\", \"by to see\" is written as one word, . Word-joining is allowed as long as the upper half of the braille cell (dot 1 or 4) is used in the final word; \"to, by, into\" do join with \"in, enough, be, his, was, were\", but the second word is spelled out.\n\nThe fifth-decade prefixes (\"be-, dis-, con-\") may only be used if they occur at the beginning of a word (including in a compound word after a hyphen, or after \"by, to, into\") and form a whole syllable. That is, they cannot be used in the words \"been, disk, conch\" nor (apart from double-duty \"be\") as words in their own right, as in \"con artist\". \"Com-\" is similar, but need not constitute a syllable: it is used for example in \"come\" and \"comb\". However, because it uses only the bottom row of the cell, like the hyphen and the apostrophe, it cannot come in contact with either.\n\nLonger unmarked contractions are the following. Ligatures, such as in \"against\", are underlined here for clarity.\n\nThese can only form longer words that are derivations of them and retain their meaning. For example, \"above\" in \"aboveboard\", \"necessary\" in \"unnecessary\", \"conceive\" in \"misconceive\", and \"good\" in \"goodness\" are all well-formed braille, but not \"should\" in *\"shoulder\" nor \"said\" in *\"Port Said\". Nor can they be used if a final \"-e\" is dropped, as in \"declaration\". (This is why special \"-ing\" forms are available for \"declaring, rejoicing\", and \"-ceiving\": the \"-ing\" suffix would not work.)\n\nThey may be used as proper nouns (when capitalized), but not as parts of proper nouns. For example, \"little\" is acceptable for the name \"Little\", but may not be used within \"Doolittle\"; similarly, the contraction for \"good\" may not be used in the name \"Goody\". (There are too many unpredictable names for this to be workable.)\n\n\"After\", \"blind\" and \"friend\" may only be used in longer words when followed by a consonant. (They are too ambiguous otherwise.)\n\nBesides unmarked contractions, words are abbreviated with any of several abbreviation signs. All of these signs use only the right-hand side of the braille cell. , , and mark \"initial abbreviations\", combining with the initial braille letter of a word. The italic sign , letter sign , and capital sign mark \"final abbreviations\", combining with the final letter of a sequence, commonly a suffix.\n\n\nIn general, these are acceptable as parts of longer words as long as they retain their pronunciation. There are three main exceptions to this:\n\nAs can be seen from \"chromosome\", the pronunciation requirement is rather loose. Given the difficulty of English speakers in agreeing on where syllable breaks fall, syllable requirements are also loosely construed in braille: they do not follow the rigid application of a dictionary.\n\n\nThese cannot follow an apostrophe or hyphen. They cannot form independent words like *\"ally\" or *\"less\", nor can they occur at the beginning of a word like *\"ancestor\" or *\"lesson\". However, then can usually occur elsewhere: \"c-ount, ar-ound\". They may be used across syllables, as in \"c-ance-r\". is used for the suffix \"-ess\" after \"n\", though not after \"en\" or \"in\", as in \"baroness (b-ar-o-ness)\" and \"lioness\", but not in \"chieftainess (ch-i-e-f-t-a-in-e-s-s)\".\n\n\"-full\" does not use in order to preserve the parallel with the independent word \"full\". However, \"-ful\" and \"-fully\" do.\n\nWhen there are several ways to write a word, the shortest one is chosen, and when they are of equal length, the one without (two-cell) abbreviations is chosen. So, \"thence\" is written \"th-ence\" (3 cells) rather than \"the-n-c-e\" (4 cells). However, with the sequences \"-anced, -ancer, -enced, -encer\", the form with \"-ance/-ence\" is used even if not shorter.\n\nBraille also uses print abbreviations such as \"ea., Mon., Sept., etc.,\" in which case the period is used as in print.\n\nA single space (a blank cell, which has the same width as all other cells) is left between words and sentences. Paragraphs are indented with a double space. This is universal in braille, even when transcribing a printed text that does not indent paragraphs: Blank lines are not used for this in braille, though they may be used for changes of scene, etc. As much as possible, lines continue to the right margin, with words divided and hyphenated to fit. If this would cause an illegal sequence of ligature or contraction and hyphen, the spelling needs to be decomposed, or the word hyphenated differently.\n\nThe full cell is used to over-type and strike out errors when using a braille writer. (Mistakes may also be erased by smoothing them out, but this runs the risk of making the corrected letter illegible.)\n\nThe full cell may also indicate a missing value in a table. It can also function more generally as a column marker to keep the data in a table aligned. For example, a row in a table of punctuation, where the columns contain symbols of different lengths, could be written,\n\nUnified English Braille (UEB) is an attempted unified standard for English Braille, proposed in 1991 to the Braille Authority of North America (BANA). The motivation for UEB was that the proliferation of specialized braille codes—which sometimes assigned conflicting values to even basic letters and numbers—was threatening not just braille-literacy, but also the viability of English braille itself. Also, the irregularities of English Braille made automated transcription inaccurate, and therefore increased the cost and time required to print in braille. In 1993, the UEB project was adopted by the International Council on English Braille, and expanded to cover the various national systems of the member states: Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Nigeria, South Africa, the United Kingdom, and the United States. An additional goal became adoption of a single standard for all braille encoding, apart from music; with the exception of math-notation, this was largely achieved. New Zealand officially retains Māori Braille as compatible with UEB, and BANA officially retains Nemeth Code as a math-notation option alongside UEB for the United States.\n\nIn the finalized form as of 2013, UEB upgrades English Braille Grade 2 (the literary coding used in several slightly-variable forms in different countries), obsoletes Computer Braille Code by making email/website/programming syntax part of literary coding, and in some ways competes with Nemeth Code by adding additional math-notation (albeit Taylor-style with the numerals overwriting letters rather than overwriting punctuation as in Nemeth) to the literary coding. Compared to the American standard described in this article, Unified English has the following differences:\n\n\nThe following punctuation is retained:\nThe Grade 2 single opening quotation mark is also retained, but the closing equivalent is changed.\n\nThe right-side abbreviation and formatting marks are used to derive quotation marks and mathematical symbols, by combining them with lower-half punctuation and four letters which graphically resemble ( ) / \\.\n\nIn addition, the accent mark is used to derive the following. At least the first, the ampersand, is the same as usage in American Grade-2 Braille, and at least the dollar sign is different.\nThe following text is the same in American Grade 2 and Unified English Braille:\n\nArticle 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32958566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32958566", "title": "English as a Second Language Podcast", "text": "English as a Second Language Podcast\n\nEnglish as a Second Language (ESL) Podcast is a web-based English language-learning podcast. It is the first and longest-running English language learning podcast on the Internet. It was launched in July 2005 by two former university professors, Dr. Jeff McQuillan and Dr. Lucy Tse of the Center for Educational Development in Los Angeles, California. ESL Podcast produces four main services: free audio lessons, supplementary Learning Guides, a blog on American culture and English learning, and specialty courses.\n\nThe purpose of English as a Second Language Podcast is to teach English by using everyday phrases and expressions spoken at a slow rate of speech, followed by explanations of what these expressions mean and how to use them. Learners access the lessons for free on the website or via a piece of podcast/RSS feed software such as iTunes. ESL Podcast uses a pedagogical approach based upon research in second language acquisition focusing on providing comprehensible input in a relaxed, friendly atmosphere.\n\nESL Podcast is intended for intermediate and advanced English learners and consists of three weekly episodes: two dialog-based episodes (Mondays and Fridays) and the longer, culturally-focused English Café (Wednesdays). Dialog-based episodes contain a slow reading of an exchange in conversational English, followed by an explanation of the key vocabulary, and then a native-rate reading of the same dialog. The English Café typically covers two major topics of cultural importance to learners of American English, followed by a short question-and-answer segment based on listener input.\n\nSince 2005, ESL Podcast has released more than 1000 self-contained episodes. It is not a traditional course, with a beginning and an end, and there are no quizzes or exercises. The episodes are not sequenced but are based on a set of broad themes from which the learner can choose, such as English for business, travel, daily life, health and fitness, shopping, and more.\n\nSupplementary materials are available for each lesson in the form of an 8-10 page PDF Learning Guide, available to subscribers of the podcast for a fixed monthly fee. Like other popular language podcasts such as ChinesePod, ESL Podcast uses a \"freemium\" business model, where the audio files are provided for free but the supplementary materials require a paid membership.\n\nBoth of the co-founders of ESL Podcast received their Ph.D.s in applied linguistics at the University of Southern California in 1997. Prior to joining the Center for Educational Development, Dr. Lucy Tse worked as a tenure-track university professor at Arizona State University, California State University, Los Angeles, and Loyola Marymount University. Dr. Jeff McQuillan was a tenure-track professor at Arizona State University and California State University, Fullerton. Both have published several dozen articles and books on topics in applied linguistics. They have each appeared on \"CNN\", and have been cited and published in numerous regional and national publications, included the\" Los Angeles Times\", \"Los Angeles Daily News\", \"San Francisco Chronicle\", and others.\n\nStories or features about ESL Podcast have appeared in several international media outlets in the United States, Latin America, Asia, and Europe. iTunes Japan named ESL Podcast one of the Best 20 podcasts in Japan in 2007. ESL Podcast has consistently been ranked the number one English language learning podcast in iTunes since its launch in 2005, and among the Top 20 podcasts for all categories in several European, Asian, and Latin American countries with a dedicated iTunes Store in 2011.\n"}
{"id": "916446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=916446", "title": "Eric Eldred", "text": "Eric Eldred\n\nEric Eldred (born 1943) is an American literacy advocate and the proprietor of the unincorporated Eldritch Press.\n\nEric Eldred has been described as a former computer programmer and systems administrator, a Boston writer, and a New Hampshire-based technical analyst. He is an independent scholar and first published online all of Nathaniel Hawthorne's works, as well as scanning many works for Project Gutenberg and others.\n\nEldred co-founded Creative Commons and served on its board of directors.\n\nEldred grew up in Florida, graduated from Harvard University in 1966 (philosophy, general studies), and then became a conscientious objector during the Vietnam War. He was ordered to work for two years as alternative service, at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, where he was a respiratory therapist and a chief pulmonary technologist until 1987. After he bought an Apple II computer in 1980, he was active in Apple users' groups and went to Harvard Extension School (programming and technical writing, C.A.S. 1991). Then he worked as an engineer at Apollo Computer (later Hewlett-Packard), and Cahners Publishing as a technical analyst and computer magazine journalist, then for Wang Government Services as a senior Unix systems administrator, before becoming disabled from repetitive strain injury.\n\nHe lived in an Internet Bookmobile traveling the U.S. visiting schools and libraries and special events to show readers how to print their own free books.\n\nEldred is divorced, with three (triplet) daughters.\n\nEldritch Press is a website which republished the works of others in the public domain (no longer subject to copyright). For some years Eldritch Press ran on a Linux server from Eldred's home and is now hosted by Ibiblio and no longer maintained by him. Its principal feature was experimentation with HTML formats and the inclusion of graphics (while maintaining accessibility for blind readers) for online books that earlier had mostly been in ASCII format. Since the works, and Eldred's derivative works based on them, are in the public domain, anyone can make use of them, host them, and create more works of their own without payment or credit.\n\nIn 2004, Eldred was denied a permit at Walden Pond State Reservation to print and give away free copies of \"Walden\" on the 150th anniversary of its publication. In 2005, Eldred returned with a permit, secured with the help of the Berkman Center for Internet and Society at Harvard Law School, to print and give away copies of the book, and to demonstrate to readers how to self-publish and regain control of their own culture.\n\nIn 1998, the Sonny Bono Copyright Term Extension Act was passed, preventing Eldred's plans to scan and publish works first published in the U.S. after 1922. He later became the lead plaintiff in \"Eldred v. Ashcroft\", a lawsuit which challenged the constitutionality of this act but lost in the Supreme Court of the United States in 2003.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1105799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1105799", "title": "Framework for Intervention", "text": "Framework for Intervention\n\nThe Framework for Intervention is a preventive approach to meet concerns about behaviour in schools and nurseries. It concentrates on helping staff to change the school environment, rather than the child. This means that all the factors that might affect the student or child's behaviour in the classroom or around the school can be analysed. To change the environment it offers teachers and other school staff a structure for planning,carrying out and evaluating their ideas. \n\nEvaluation has shown that changing something in the environment for the better almost always improves the behaviour of the child, and also the behaviour of others in the class.\n\nIt was introduced by Birmingham (UK) City Council Education Department in 1997 and now being used across the UK and Ireland. In Norway where it is known as \"Fin Stil\" (Fine Style), it was due to be extended nationwide from 2009. \n\n"}
{"id": "37600765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37600765", "title": "Frederick Schoenfeld", "text": "Frederick Schoenfeld\n\nFrederick Schoenfeld aka Fritz Schoenfeld (1810, Switzerland – 21 April 1868, Richmond, Victoria), was a Swiss-born Australian artist, printmaker, lithographer and art teacher. He is noted for providing the illustrations for the 6 volumes (1859–68) of \"Fragmenta phytographiae Australiae\" by Ferdinand von Mueller, then director of the National Herbarium of Victoria, and for \"The Plants Indigenous to the Colony of Victoria\" (1860–65) and \"Analytical Drawings of Australian Mosses\" (1864).\n\nSchoenfeld arrived in Australia on 8 May 1858 on board the \"Scottish Chief\", and worked in Melbourne as a freelance artist, lithographer and drawing master. He was employed over the period 1859 until 1862 by Frederick McCoy, director of the National Museum of Victoria in Melbourne, to draw and lithograph plates for McCoy's books, \"Prodromus of the Palaeontology of Victoria\" and \"Prodromus of the Zoology of Victoria\", both published in the 1870s.\n\nIn the 1860s Schoenfeld gave drawing classes at the \"\", but when the club’s premises were destroyed by a fire in December 1866 he was left with no regular income. He became depressed about his straitened circumstances and after an unsuccessful first attempt at suicide, drowned himself in a water-filled quarry at Richmond. He was survived by his wife Philippine, née Phen.\n"}
{"id": "24639899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24639899", "title": "Girls Islamic Organisation of India", "text": "Girls Islamic Organisation of India\n\nGirls Islamic Organisation of India (GIO) () () is a student organisation in India for girls. It is the daughter organisation of Jamaat-e-Islami Hind. Girls Islamic Organisation of India (GIO) came to existence under the patronage of Jamaat-e-Islami Hind. It releases the potential of womenfolk in moulding the society's future. It also intends to uplift the girls and enhance their power of action and reaction. \n\nGIO actively works in various states including Rajasthan, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra, Kerala And Karnataka.\n\nFor a long time, GIO functioned as a part of the Women’s Wing of the JIH local unit. Later, it was established as a full-fledged state level organization.\n\nThe GIO prepares female students and young women for the reconstruction of the society in the Divine Light Of Guidance. It aims at the assurance of justice and prosperity without any discrimination of religion and caste, finding solution for the problems affecting girls in the socio-political, moral and cultural zone and refining the girl's value conscious. Girls should have the courage to shoulder the responsibility of handing over the message of truth to the posterity. The main nature of GIO is to function girls on to the grounds of Islam. It also stirs and encourages the creative talents of girls by conducting camps, campaigns and contests. Special focus is given to the campuses. GIO tries to up lift the educational levels of girls, to strengthen them morally and to boost up their talents through its activities.\n\nGIO regularly conducts study classes and public meetings. It organizes campaigns for female students and young women. It organizes cordial meets, Iftaar Meets and Table Talks. The GIO also participates in anti-rape and anti-drugs protests.\n\n"}
{"id": "24206651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24206651", "title": "Goa Science Centre", "text": "Goa Science Centre\n\nThe Goa Science Centre is a science museum is located on New Marine Highway, Miramar, Panjim. It is a joint project of a division of India's National Council of Science Museums (NCSM) and Goa's Department of Science Technology & Environment.\n\nThe centre aims to \"..inculcate a scientific temper particularly among the young generation and to popularize science by bringing the excitement of Science & Technology for the common people.\"\n\nThe Science Centre covers of land, provided by the Government of Goa. It includes a park with exotic flowers, where visitors can learn and interact with large exhibits of principles of physics. Most require visitors to participate actively, e.g. requiring people to lift themselves using pulleys and ropes. Activities are tailored to children, so they enjoy exploring, experiencing and learning about science.\n\nThe centre also houses interactive exhibits inside the building and presents \"Science Shows\" for young children daily. The \"Digital Planetarium, 3-D Film Shows, Science Demonstration Lectures, Science Film Shows, Taramandal Shows and the Cyberlab Shows\" are suitable for all ages.\n\nThe Science Centre has an air-conditioned auditorium seating 140, where the Science Film Shows and other multimedia presentations are shown. The Cyberlab is a Multimedia Computer Lab designed to demonstrate and spread IT awareness to the public. There are two thematic galleries: Fun Science and Science of Oceans.\n\n"}
{"id": "27779400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27779400", "title": "Gus Fisher Gallery", "text": "Gus Fisher Gallery\n\nThe Gus Fisher Gallery is part of the University of Auckland's National Institute of Creative Arts and Industries (NICAI), and is located in the Kenneth Myers Centre, a historic building restored in 2000 with the help of the gallery's patron, Gus Fisher (1920–2010).\n\nIt is operated by the University of Auckland Centre for Art Research, which was established in 2005 to support and develop the academic and research activities connected with the Gus Fisher Gallery, The University of Auckland Art Collection, and Window. The gallery aims to present a balanced and relevant programme of curated exhibitions of contemporary and historical art, which interrogates current visual arts knowledge nationally and internationally.\n\nIn 2008, The Gus Fisher Gallery was awarded Metro Magazine's Best Arts Institution in Auckland, from their annual Best of Auckland Issue.\n\nThe Gus Fisher Gallery is free, and open Tuesday to Friday, 10am – 5pm, and Saturday 12pm - 4pm.\n\nThe Gus Fisher Gallery is located in the former broadcasting building at 74 Shortland Street – now renamed the Kenneth Myers Centre to honour the father of principal benefactor, Douglas Myers. The \"strikingly original structure\" built in 1934 is registered by Heritage New Zealand as a Category I building.\n\nThe University of Auckland Centre for Art Research develops, supports and promotes scholarship, learning, and community engagement in the visual arts. It is an important platform for research at The University of Auckland and provides a public interface for engagement with the wider Auckland and New Zealand communities.\n\nEstablished in 2006, the Centre is entrusted to manage and develop the University’s extensive and valuable art collection, to coordinate the busy exhibition programme of the Gus Fisher Gallery, and to support and guide the student team that leads the activities of the online and onsite student-curated gallery, Window. The Centre also liaises closely with those other parts of the University engaged in similar or complementary activities with a view to maximising opportunities to profile key initiatives. The Centre was originally named the Centre for New Zealand Art Research and Discovery (CNZARD) but was renamed the Centre for Art Research in 2012.\n\nEstablished in 1966 by Keith Sinclair and Bob Chapman, The Art Collection is one of the University’s most valuable and cherished assets. However, its most poignant value lies in its use as a resource for teaching, learning and research. Available on loan to departments and faculties on all campuses, the Collection has been built up over forty years to include major works by significant artists such as Frances Hodgkins, Colin McCahon, Billy Apple and Ralph Hotere. Outcomes from postgraduate research on the Collection have included a thesis on its own history as an entity, monograph exhibitions on individual artists, and surveys of the impact of the evolution of the Collection on Auckland’s dealer galleries, resulting in the exhibitions and publications Vuletic and His Circle (about the Petar/James Gallery) in 2003 and New Vision Gallery in 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "2886028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2886028", "title": "H. Dieter Zeh", "text": "H. Dieter Zeh\n\nHeinz-Dieter Zeh (; born 8 May 1932 in Braunschweig, Germany; died 15 April 2018 while on holiday in the Black Forest), usually referred to as H. Dieter Zeh, was a professor (later professor emeritus) of the University of Heidelberg and theoretical physicist.\n\nZeh was one of the developers of the many-minds interpretation of quantum mechanics and the discoverer of decoherence, first described in his seminal 1970 paper.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20623857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20623857", "title": "Hamilton Technical College", "text": "Hamilton Technical College\n\nHamilton Technical College is a technical college in Davenport, Iowa.\n\nHamilton Technical College was founded in 1969 by Charles and Maryanne Hamilton as the Academy of Radio and Television (A.R.T.) in Bettendorf, IA. The first classes were held for six students around the dinner table of the Hamiltons and the first curriculum was focused on passing the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) exam. Curriculum was then expanded to prepare students to become broadcasters. The first formal classes began in 1970 at 1120 State Street in Bettendorf, IA. To accommodate a growing number of students, classes were moved to a larger building on State Street. \nIn 1978 an Electronics program was added and A.R.T acquired recognition as a Technical College specializing in Electronics Engineering Technology. The school was then renamed A.R.T. Technical College. The Electronics Engineering program offered was for an associate degree attainable in just 18 months. In 1980 the name was changed to Hamilton Technical College. \nFrom 1980-1991 there were many changes. An Aviation Maintenance Technology program was added, with classes being held at the Davenport Municipal Airport in Mt. Joy, IA. The Hamilton Institute of Business, a branch of Hamilton Tech began offering an Associate of Occupational Technology degree in Computer Information Systems. \nIn 1990, Hamilton began the Computer-Aided Drafting program offering an Associate of Occupational Studies in 19 months. \nIn 1991, Hamilton Technical College moved all classes to their current location at 10111 53rd St, Davenport, IA. This year the Aerotech program also ended. Also in 1991, the Medical Assisting Technology program began which earned students a diploma in just 9 months.\n\nIn the summer of 2006 Hamilton Technical College began construction and remodeling of the current buildings. The building at the East end has been renovated to house the Advanced Electronics Center. Many equipment improvements have been made in this area. Some of the equipment that was added include: CNC Lathe, Mill, Industrial Robotics, Oscilloscopes, and computer testing equipment. The West end of the building currently houses the Medical Assisting program as well as the Development Center.\n\nCurrently, Hamilton Technical College offers an Associate and Bachelor of Science Degrees in Electronics Engineering Technology, a diploma in Medical Assisting Technology and a diploma in Medical Insurance Coding and Billing.\n\nHamilton Technical College has approximately 300 students. There are approximately 25 full-time staff and 5 part-time staff. \n\nHamilton is accredited by the Accrediting Commission of Career Schools and Colleges (ACCSC).\n\nThe Electronics Engineering Technology program offers either an Associates or a Bachelor's degree program. Medical Assisting is a ten-month diploma program and Medical Insurance Billing and Coding Specialist Program is also a ten-month diploma program. Both day and night programs are offered.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "313689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=313689", "title": "Highlander Research and Education Center", "text": "Highlander Research and Education Center\n\nThe Highlander Research and Education Center, formerly known as the Highlander Folk School, is a social justice leadership training school and cultural center in New Market, Tennessee. Founded in 1932 by activist Myles Horton, educator Don West, and Methodist minister James A. Dombrowski, it was originally located in the community of Summerfield in Grundy County, Tennessee, between Monteagle and Tracy City. It was featured in the 1985 documentary film, \"You Got to Move\". Much of the history was documented in the book \"Or We'll All Hang Separately: The Highlander Idea\" by Thomas Bledsoe.\n\nHighlander provides training and education for emerging and existing movement leaders throughout the South, Appalachia, and the world. Some of Highlander's earliest contributions were during the labor movement in Appalachia and throughout the Southern United States. During the 1950s, it played a critical role in the American Civil Rights Movement. It trained civil rights leader Rosa Parks prior to her historic role in the Montgomery Bus Boycott, as well as providing training for many other movement activists, including members of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC), Septima Clark, Anne Braden, Martin Luther King, Jr., James Bevel, Hollis Watkins, Bernard Lafayette, Ralph Abernathy and John Lewis in the mid- and-late 1950s. Backlash against the school's involvement with the Civil Rights Movement led to the school's closure by the state of Tennessee in 1961. Staff reorganized and moved to Knoxville, Tennessee, where they rechartered Highlander under the name \"Highlander Research and Education Center.\" Highlander has been in its current (and longest consecutive) home in New Market, TN, since 1971.\n\nThe Highlander Folk School was originally established in Grundy County, Tennessee, on land donated for this purpose by educator Lilian Wyckoff Johnson. When Highlander was founded in 1932, the United States was in the midst of the Great Depression. Workers in all parts of the country were met with major resistance by employers when they tried to organize labor unions, especially in the South. Against that backdrop, Horton, West and Dombrowski created the Highlander School \"to provide an educational center in the South for the training of rural and industrial leaders, and for the conservation and enrichment of the indigenous cultural values of the mountains.\" Horton was influenced by observing rural adult education schools in Denmark started in the 19th century by Danish Lutheran Bishop N. F. S. Grundtvig. During the 1930s and 1940s, the school's main focus was labor education and the training of labor organizers. In the 1930s, Myra Page taught here.\n\nIn the 1950s, Highlander turned its energies to the rising issues of civil rights and desegregation. In addition to Myles Horton and others, a key figure during this period was John Beauchamp Thompson, a minister and educator who became one of the principal fund-raisers and speakers for the school. Highlander worked with Esau Jenkins of Johns Island to develop a literacy program for Blacks who were prevented from registering to vote by literacy requirements. The Citizenship Education Schools coordinated by Septima Clark with assistance from Bernice Robinson spread widely throughout the South and helped thousands of Blacks register to vote. Later, the program was transferred to the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, because the state of Tennessee was threatening to close the school.\n\nThe civil rights anthem, \"We Shall Overcome\", was adapted from a gospel song, by Highlander music director Zilphia Horton, wife of Myles Horton, from the singing of striking tobacco factory workers in South Carolina in 1946. Shortly afterward, it was published by folksinger Pete Seeger in the People's Songs bulletin. It was revived at Highlander by Guy Carawan, who succeeded Zilphia Horton as Highlander's music director in 1959. Guy Carawan taught the song to SNCC at their first convening at Shaw University. The song has since spread and become one of the most recognizable movement songs in the world.\n\nIn reaction to the school's work, during the late 1950s, Southern newspapers attacked Highlander for supposedly creating racial strife. In 1957, the Georgia Commission on Education published a pamphlet titled \"Highlander Folk School: Communist Training School, Monteagle, Tennessee\". A controversial photograph of Martin Luther King and writer, trade union organizer, civil rights activist and co-founder of the Highlander School Donald Lee West, was published. According to information obtained by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, West was the District Director of the Communist Party in North Carolina, though West denied he had ever been a member of the Communist Party. In 1961, the state of Tennessee revoked Highlander's charter, and confiscated and auctioned the school's land and property. According to Septima Clark's autobiography, \"Echo In My Soul\" (page 225), the Highlander Folk School was closed, because it engaged in commercial activities in violation its charter. The Highlander Folk School was chartered by the State of Tennessee as a non-profit corporation without stockholders or owners. Once the State revoked its charter, no one could make a legal claim on any of the property. In 1961, the Highlander staff reincorporated as the Highlander Research and Education Center and moved to Knoxville. In 1971, it relocated to New Market, Tennessee.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, Highlander focused on worker health and safety in the coalfields of Appalachia. Its leaders played a role in the emergence of the region's environmental justice movement. It helped start the Southern Appalachian Leadership Training (SALT) program, and coordinated a survey of land ownership in Appalachia. In the 1980s and 1990s, Highlander broadened their base into broader regional, national, and international environmentalism; struggles against the negative effects of globalization; grassroots leadership development in under-resourced communities. Beginning in the 1990s, became involved in LGBT issues, both in the U.S. and internationally.\n\nCurrent focuses of Highlander include issues of democratic participation and economic justice, with a particular focus on youth, immigrants to the U.S. from Latin America, African Americans, LGBT, and poor white people.\n\nIn 2014, the Tennessee Preservation Trust placed the original Grundy County school building on its list of the ten most \"endangered\" historic sites in Tennessee.\n\nThe directors of Highlander have been:\n\nA Tennessee Historical Commission Marker is present near Highlander's original location outside of Monteagle, Tennessee. The text of the marker reads:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16589039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16589039", "title": "Hindman Settlement School", "text": "Hindman Settlement School\n\nHindman Settlement School is a settlement school located in Hindman, Kentucky in Knott County. Established in 1902, it was the first rural settlement school in America.\n\nThe mission of Hindman Settlement School is \"to provide educational and service opportunities for the people of the mountains, while keeping them mindful of their heritage.\"\n\nJames Still was a notable poet, folklorist, and novelist during his life, spanning 95 years from 1906 to 2001. James Still's friend, Don West offered him a job organizing recreational programs for a settlement school in Knott County, Kentucky. James Still gladly accepted the invitation to teach in Knott County. James Still soon became a librarian at the Hindman Settlement School Library and spent the rest of his days in Knott County. James Still is buried on the Hindman Settlement School Campus.\n\nFred Williams was principal at Hindman Settlement School in the mid-1940s. A close friend of Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, Williams was a Methodist missionary who pioneered indoor and running water sanitation in rural India (Asansol) and fought to eradicate caste-based discrimination.\n\nThe Marie Stewart Museum & Craft Shop supports the activities of the school. The store sells traditional Appalachian crafts and has an online site. Upstairs is a small museum with exhibits about the Hindman Settlement School and regional crafts.\n\nThe School's goal of integrating traditional culture with education led it to welcome visiting outsiders who sought to document the musical heritage of the Appalachians, notably in folk song. The fieldwork teams of Loraine Wyman with Howard Brockway, and Cecil Sharp with Maud Karpeles, working in the years of the First World War, found a wealth of beautiful melody and texts from singers at the School or from the local neighborhood.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28652639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28652639", "title": "Holon Children's Museum", "text": "Holon Children's Museum\n\nHolon Children's Museum () is a children's museum in Holon, Israel.\n\nSpecial exhibits include \"Dialogue in The Dark\" led by a sight-impaired guide, and \"Invitation To Silence,\" an inter-active exhibition exploring communication led by deaf guides.\n"}
{"id": "57027323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57027323", "title": "ISBA High School Mock Trial Invitational", "text": "ISBA High School Mock Trial Invitational\n\nThe Illinois State Bar Association High School Mock Trial Invitational is a mock trial tournament that has been held every year since 1983. The event is co-administered by the Illinois State Bar Association and the Illinois Trial Team. The winning team represents the state of Illinois at the National High School Mock Trial Championship. Originally held in Springfield, Illinois, the invitational moved to Champaign, Illinois in 2013. In 2018, 39 high schools participated. The defending champion is St. Charles North High School.\n\nEach school must submit a roster of no more than ten members. The tournament consists of two preliminary rounds, with each school having a chance to represent both the plaintiff/prosecution and defense. After the first two rounds, the eight highest scoring teams advance to a final round. The team with the highest point total following the final round wins the tournament. \n\nThe following is a list of invitational champions:\n\n\nThe following schools have placed in the top 3 at least once:\n\nThe winner of the ISBA High School Mock Trial Invitational has represented the state at the National High School Mock Trial Championship since its inaugural tournament in 1984. No Illinois team has ever won the tournament, although Hinsdale Central High School finished in 2nd place in 2010. Most recently, Illinois finished 27th at the 2018 National Championship in Reno, Nevada.\n"}
{"id": "27648438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27648438", "title": "Income-based repayment", "text": "Income-based repayment\n\nIncome-based repayment or income-driven repayment is a student loan repayment program in the US that regulates the amount that one needs to pay each month basing on one’s current income and family size.\n\nThe phrase is an umbrella term for four specific repayment plans that are available within the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Program and the Federal Family Education Loan Program. These four repayment plans are also named Income-Based Repayment (IBR), Pay As You Earn (PAYE), Revised Pay As You Earn (REPAYE), and Income-Contingent Repayment (ICR). \n\nPayments under the IBR Plan are 10% or 15% of discretionary income, but will never be more than the 10-year standard repayment amount. Whether a borrower pays 10% or 15% of discretionary income depends on when the borrower first started borrowing student loans.\n\nPayments under the PAYE Plan are 10% of discretionary income, but will never be more than the 10-year standard repayment amount.\n\nPayments under the REPAYE Plan are also 10% of discretionary income; however, unlike IBR and PAYE, payments for high-income borrowers may be higher than the 10-year standard repayment amount. Also, unlike IBR and PAYE, if required monthly payments do not cover the accruing interest, 50% of the unpaid interest is forgiven, thereby reducing negative amortization.\n\nPayments under the ICR Plan are the lesser of 20% of discretionary income or a 12-year standard repayment amount adjusted based on the borrower's income.\n\nEligibility requirements for the income-driven repayment plans depends on which plan the borrower chooses and when the student borrowed.\n\nThe ICR Plan has the fewest number of eligibility requirements. A borrower is only required to have an eligible loan.\n\nThe IBR and Pay As You Earn Plans require that the borrower demonstrate a \"need\" to make income-driven payments and have eligible loans.\n\nThe Pay As You Earn Plan is limited to those who borrowed recently. Specifically, the borrower must be a \"new borrower\" as of October 1, 2007 and have received a disbursement of a Direct Loan on or after October 1, 2011. A borrower is a \"new borrower\" if, when receiving a federal student loan on or after October 1, 2007, the borrower did not have an outstanding balance on another federal student loan.\n\nThe Revised Pay As You Earn Plan is available to all Direct Loan borrowers regardless of when the money was borrowed. FFEL loans can be made eligible if they are consolidated into a Direct Consolidation Loan.\n\nEligible loans for the ICR Plan are all loans made under the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Program except Parent PLUS Loans. However, if a Parent PLUS Loan is consolidated into a Direct Consolidation Loan, then the Direct Consolidation Loan may be repaid under the ICR Plan.\n\nEligible loans for the IBR Plan are all loans made under the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Program and Federal Family Education Loan Program except for Parent PLUS Loans. Unlike ICR, Parent PLUS Loans cannot be consolidated into a consolidation loan in order to qualify.\n\nEligible loans for the PAYE Plan are all loans made under the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Program except for Parent PLUS Loans. Unlike ICR, Parent PLUS Loans cannot be consolidated into a consolidation loan in order to qualify.\n\nBorrowers with Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) Program loans and Federal Perkins Loan Program loans may become eligible for the ICR, Pay As You Earn, and Revised Pay As You Earn plans by consolidating them into a Direct Consolidation Loan.\n\nThe IBR and PAYE Plans require that borrowers demonstrate a \"need\" to make income-driven payments. This debt-to-income test checks to see whether the borrower would see a payment amount reduction under the IBR or PAYE Plan relative to the 10-year standard repayment plan.\n\nThe IBR Plan has different terms and conditions depending on when the student borrowed. If the borrower is a \"new borrower\" on or after July 1, 2014, then the borrower will have payments that are generally 10% of discretionary income and forgiveness is provided for after 20 years of qualifying payment. If a borrower is not a new borrower on or after July 1, 2014, then payments will generally be 15% of discretionary income and forgiveness is provided for after 25 years of qualifying repayment.\n\nSimilar to the definition of \"new borrower\" for Pay As You Earn, a new borrower for the IBR Plan is one who, when receiving a federal student loan on or after July 1, 2014, the borrower did not have an outstanding balance on another federal student loan.\n\nUtilizing the repayment estimator online, a borrower can estimate his other monthly payments under all repayment plans, including IBR. However, the repayment estimator can only estimate eligibility. To receive an official determination of eligibility, a borrower must contact his or her loan servicer. The National Student Loan Data System (Nslds.ed.gov) can let a borrower know who is the servicer of his/her loan.\n\nThe Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program provides for the forgiveness of certain types of federal student loans after 10 years of qualifying employment and payments. The IBR plan is one of the qualifying repayment plans for the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program. And, to receive Public Service Loan Forgiveness, borrower must have repaid their loans under one of the \"income-driven repayment plans\", including IBR.\n\nTo apply for an income-driven repayment plan, the borrower needs to submit the Income-Driven Repayment Plan Request and provide information about family size and income. Income can take the form of tax information (adjusted gross income), or \"alternative documentation of income\", such as a pay stub.\n\nTax information, as well as the application, itself, and certification of family size, may be provided electronically through StudentLoans.gov. If completing the application electronically, a borrower may transfer tax information into the application directly from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).\n\nAccording to the application, borrowers may also self-certify that they currently have no income, thus avoiding needing to try and document that they have no income.\n\nBecause the eligibility criteria are complex, the application allows borrowers to indicate that they want their loan servicer to determine which of the income-driven plans the borrower is eligible for, and to place the borrower on the income-driven plan with the lowest monthly payment amount.\n\nMost borrowers seeking an income-driven plan should choose Revised Pay As You Earn. The REPAYE plan provides benefits that the IBR, ICR, and PAYE plans do not, including a 50% interest subsidy if the required payment does not cover the accruing interest. However, there could be disadvantages to choosing the REPAYE plan which could result in higher amounts being paid over the life of the loan or very high monthly payments for borrowers with high incomes.\n\nOn June 9, 2014, President Obama announced that the Department of Education would modify the PAYE Plan so that it is available to all borrowers, regardless of when they borrowed. The new repayment plan, Revised Pay As You Earn, launched on December 17, 2015.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Education Office of Inspector General recently calculated that the portion of total Direct Loan volume being repaid through IDR plans has increased 625 percent from the FY 2011 loan cohort ($7.1 billion) to the FY 2015 loan cohort ($51.5 billion). For IDR plans, the Federal government is expected to lend more money than borrowers repay. From the FY 2011 through FY 2015 loan cohorts, the total positive subsidy cost (net cash outflow) for student loans being repaid through IDR plans has increased 748 percent (from $1.4 billion to $11.5 billion)\n\n"}
{"id": "30952889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30952889", "title": "KNUST Senior High School", "text": "KNUST Senior High School\n\nThe KNUST Senior High School is a co-educational institution in Kumasi, Ghana. \nThe school's nickname, in the Akan language, is \"Mmadwemma\", meaning people who carefully think before acting. Its motto is \"Forward be our watchword\". Approximately 600 students graduate each year. Mrs. Joyce Ansah is the current headmistress of the school. The school has a staff strength of 66 teachers and 21 non-teaching staff.\n\nKNUST Senior High School was formerly known as the Technology Secondary School until 2007. It offers high school education and it is within the Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology in Kumasi, Ghana. It was established in February 1961 by the then-vice chancellor of the University Of Science and Technology Dr. R.P. Baffour. The school being housed in prefabricated asbestos buildings thus started as the “Baby” of the University, that is, Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology in humble circumstances. From the onset, it was financed and staffed by the University. It was, however, hoped that the School would eventually move into permanent buildings on the University campus, and become a boarding institution. From its foundation up to June 1967, the School retained the University Secondary Technical School. The Technical course was abandoned because of lack of staff and facilities. It has since been known and called Technology Secondary School. The school was originally set up to give secondary school education to the children of the university staff. The school later opened up admission to the general public. KNUST Senior High School is a \"Class A Institution\" according to the West African Examination Council and the Ghana Education Service. It is a coeducational school, with an enrollment of about 900 boys and 1010 girls.\n\nThe school offers the following courses:\n"}
{"id": "595905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=595905", "title": "Kelucharan Mohapatra", "text": "Kelucharan Mohapatra\n\nKelucharan Mohapatra (8 January 1926 – 7 April 2004) was a legendary Indian classical dancer, guru, and exponent of Odissi dance, who is credited with the revival and popularizing of this classical dance form in the 20th century.\nHe is the first person to receive the Padma Vibhushan from Odisha.\n\nA noted Sanskrit poet of India writes on this \"Guru\": \"Saango-paanga-subhangi-laasya-madhuram samteerna-nrutyaarnavam\", which translates as - \"Each fraction of his dancing body leads to paramount sweetness, through miraculous poses and postures. In fact, Guru Kelucharan Mohapatra crossed the ocean of styles.\"\n\nIn his youth, Kelucharan Mohapatra performed Gotipua - a traditional dance form of Odisha where young boys dress up as woman to praise Lord Jagannath. Later in his life he did extensive research on Gotipua and Mahari dance, which lead him to restructure Odissi dance. Guru Kelucharan Mohapatra was a master in Percussion instruments - Mridangam, Pakhavaj and Tabla, which clearly resonates in his dance compositions. He was also skilled in the traditional Pattachitra painting.\n\nGuru Kelucharan Mohapatra along with his wife, Laxmipriya, herself a dancer, and their son Ratikant Mohapatra built Srjan in 1993.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "238725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=238725", "title": "Loebner Prize", "text": "Loebner Prize\n\nThe Loebner Prize is an annual competition in artificial intelligence that awards prizes to the computer programs considered by the judges to be the most human-like. The format of the competition is that of a standard Turing test. In each round, a human judge simultaneously holds textual conversations with a computer program and a human being via computer. Based upon the responses, the judge must decide which is which.\n\nThe contest was launched in 1990 by Hugh Loebner in conjunction with the Cambridge Center for Behavioral Studies, Massachusetts, United States. Since 2014 it has been organised by the AISB at Bletchley Park.\nIt has also been associated with Flinders University, Dartmouth College, the Science Museum in London, University of Reading and Ulster University, Magee Campus, Derry, UK City of Culture.\nIn 2004 and 2005, it was held in Loebner's apartment in New York City. Within the field of artificial intelligence, the Loebner Prize is somewhat controversial; the most prominent critic, Marvin Minsky, called it a publicity stunt that does not help the field along.\n\nOriginally, $2,000 was awarded for the most human-seeming program in the competition. The prize was $3,000 in 2005 and $2,250 in 2006. In 2008, $3,000 was awarded.\n\nIn addition, there are two one-time-only prizes that have never been awarded. $25,000 is offered for the first program that judges cannot distinguish from a real human and which can convince judges that the human is the computer program. $100,000 is the reward for the first program that judges cannot distinguish from a real human in a Turing test that includes deciphering and understanding text, visual, and auditory input. Once this is achieved, the annual competition will end.\n\nThe rules have varied over the years and early competitions featured restricted conversation Turing tests but since 1995 the discussion has been unrestricted.\n\nFor the three entries in 2007, Robert Medeksza, Noah Duncan and Rollo Carpenter, some basic \"screening questions\" were used by the sponsor to evaluate the state of the technology. These included simple questions about the time, what round of the contest it is, etc.; general knowledge (\"What is a hammer for?\"); comparisons (\"Which is faster, a train or a plane?\"); and questions demonstrating memory for preceding parts of the same conversation. \"All nouns, adjectives and verbs will come from a dictionary suitable for children or adolescents under the age of 12.\" Entries did not need to respond \"intelligently\" to the questions to be accepted.\n\nFor the first time in 2008 the sponsor allowed introduction of a preliminary phase to the contest opening up the competition to previously disallowed web-based entries judged by a variety of invited interrogators. The available rules do not state how interrogators are selected or instructed. Interrogators (who judge the systems) have limited time: 5 minutes per entity in the 2003 competition, 20+ per pair in 2004–2007 competitions, 5 minutes to conduct \"simultaneous\" conversations with a human and the program in 2008-2009, increased to 25 minutes of simultaneous conversation since 2010.\n\nThe prize has long been scorned by experts in the field, for a variety of reasons.\n\nIt is regarded by many as a publicity stunt. Marvin Minsky scathingly offered a \"prize\" to anyone who could stop the competition. Loebner responded by jokingly observing that Minsky's offering a prize to stop the competition effectively made him a co-sponsor.\n\nThe rules of the competition have encouraged poorly qualified judges to make rapid judgements. Interactions between judges and competitors was originally very brief, for example effectively 2.5 mins of questioning, which permitted only a few questions. Questioning was initially restricted to \"whimsical conversation\", a domain suiting standard chatbot tricks.\n\nCompetition entrants do not aim at understanding or intelligence but resort to basic ELIZA style tricks, and successful entrants find deception and pretense is rewarded.\n\nReporting of the annual competition often confuses the imitation test with intelligence, a typical example being Brian Christian's introduction to his article \"Mind vs. Machine\" in The Atlantic, March 2011, stating that \"in the race to build computers that \"can think like humans\", the proving ground is the Turing Test\".\n\nIn 2006, the contest was organised by Tim Child (CEO of Televirtual) and Huma Shah. On August 30, the four finalists were announced:\n\nThe contest was held on 17 September in the VR theatre, Torrington Place campus of University College London. The judges included the University of Reading's cybernetics professor, Kevin Warwick, a professor of artificial intelligence, John Barnden (specialist in metaphor research at the University of Birmingham), a barrister, Victoria Butler-Cole and a journalist, Graham Duncan-Rowe. The latter's experience of the event can be found in an article in \"Technology Review\". The winner was 'Joan', based on Jabberwacky, both created by Rollo Carpenter.\n\nThe 2007 competition was held on October 21 in New York City. The judges were: computer science professor Russ Abbott, philosophy professor Hartry Field, psychology assistant professor Clayton Curtis and English lecturer Scott Hutchins.\n\nNo bot passed the Turing test, but the judges ranked the three contestants as follows:\n\nThe winner received $2,250 and the annual medal. The runners-up received $250 each.\n\nThe 2008 competition was organised by professor Kevin Warwick, coordinated by Huma Shah and held on October 12 at the University of Reading, UK. After testing by over one hundred judges during the preliminary phase, in June and July 2008, six finalists were selected from thirteen original entrants - artificial conversational entity (ACE). Five of those invited competed in the finals:\n\nIn the finals, each of the judges was given five minutes to conduct simultaneous, split-screen conversations with two hidden entities. Elbot of Artificial Solutions won the 2008 Loebner Prize bronze award, for \"most human-like\" artificial conversational entity, through fooling three of the twelve judges who interrogated it (in the human-parallel comparisons) into believing it was human. This is coming very close to the 30% traditionally required to consider that a program has actually passed the Turing test. Eugene Goostman and Ultra Hal both deceived one judge each that it was the human.\n\nWill Pavia, a journalist for The Times, has written about his experience; a Loebner finals' judge, he was deceived by Elbot and Eugene. Kevin Warwick and Huma Shah have reported on the parallel-paired Turing tests.\n\nThe 2009 Loebner Prize Competition was held September 6, 2009 at the Brighton Centre, Brighton UK in conjunction with the Interspeech 2009 conference. The prize amount for 2009 was $3,000.\n\nEntrants were David Levy, Rollo Carpenter, and Mohan Embar, who finished in that order.\n\nThe writer Brian Christian participated in the 2009 Loebner Prize Competition as a human confederate, and described his experiences at the competition in his book \"The Most Human Human\".\n\nThe 2010 Loebner Prize Competition was held on October 23 at California State University, Los Angeles. The 2010 competition was the 20th running of the contest. The winner was Bruce Wilcox with Suzette.\n\nThe 2011 Loebner Prize Competition was held on October 19 at the University of Exeter, Devon, United Kingdom. The prize amount for 2011 was $4,000.\n\nThe four finalists and their chatterbots were Bruce Wilcox (Rosette), Adeena Mignogna (Zoe), Mohan Embar (Chip Vivant) and Ron Lee (Tutor), who finished in that order.\n\nThat year there was an addition of a panel of junior judges, namely Jean-Paul Astal-Stain, William Dunne, Sam Keat and Kirill Jerdev. The results of the junior contest were markedly different from the main contest, with chatterbots Tutor and Zoe tying for first place and Chip Vivant and Rosette coming in third and fourth place, respectively.\n\nThe 2012 Loebner Prize Competition was held on the 15th of May in Bletchley Park in Bletchley, Buckinghamshire, England, in honor of the Alan Turing centenary celebrations. The prize amount for 2012 was $5,000. The local arrangements organizer was David Levy, who won the Loebner Prize in 1997 and 2009.\n\nThe four finalists and their chatterbots were Mohan Embar (Chip Vivant), Bruce Wilcox (Angela), Daniel Burke (Adam), M. Allan (Linguo), who finished in that order.\n\nThat year, a team from the University of Exeter's computer science department (Ed Keedwell, Max Dupenois and Kent McClymont) conducted the first-ever live webcast of the conversations.\n\nThe 2013 Loebner Prize Competition was held, for the first time on the Island of Ireland, on September 14 at the Ulster University, Magee College, Derry, Northern Ireland, UK.\n\nThe four finalists and their chatbots were Steve Worswick (Mitsuku), Dr. Ron C. Lee (Tutor), Bruce Wilcox (Rose) and Brian Rigsby (Izar), who finished in that order.\n\nThe judges were Professor Roger Schank (Socratic Arts), Professor Noel Sharkey (Sheffield University), Professor Minhua (Eunice) Ma (Huddersfield University, then University of Glasgow)\nand Professor Mike McTear (Ulster University).\n\nFor the 2013 Junior Loebner Prize Competition the chatbots Mitsuku and Tutor tied for first place with Rose and Izar in 3rd and 4th place respectively.\n\nThe 2014 Loebner Prize Competition was held at Bletchley Park, England, on Saturday 15 November 2014. The event was filmed live by Sky News. The guest judge was television presenter and broadcaster James May.\n\nAfter 2 hours of judging, 'Rose' by Bruce Wilcox was declared the winner. Bruce will receive a cheque for $4000 and a bronze medal. The ranks were as follows:\n\nRose - Rank 1 ($4000 & Bronze Medal); \nIzar - Rank 2.25 ($1500); \nUberbot - Rank 3.25 ($1000); and \nMitsuku - Rank 3.5 ($500).\n\nThe Judges were Dr Ian Hocking, Writer & Senior Lecturer in Psychology, Christ Church College, Canterbury; \nDr Ghita Kouadri-Mostefaoui, Lecturer in Computer Science and Technology, University of Bedfordshire; \nMr James May, Television Presenter and Broadcaster; and \nDr Paul Sant, Dean of UCMK, University of Bedfordshire.\n\nThe 2015 Loebner Prize Competition was again won by 'Rose' by Bruce Wilcox.\n\nThe judges were Jacob Aaron, Physical sciences reporter for New Scientist; Rory Cellan-Jones, Technology correspondent for the BBC; Brett Marty, Film Director and Photographer; Ariadne Tampion, Writer.\n\nThe 2016 Loebner Prize was held at Bletchley Park on 17 September 2016. After 2 hours of judging the final results were announced. \nThe ranks were as follows:\n\n\nOfficial list of winners.\n\n"}
{"id": "7648422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7648422", "title": "Lojong", "text": "Lojong\n\nLojong (Tib. བློ་སྦྱོང་,) is a mind training practice in the Tibetan Buddhist tradition based on a set of aphorisms formulated in Tibet in the 12th century by Chekawa Yeshe Dorje. The practice involves refining and purifying one's motivations and attitudes.\n\nThe fifty-nine or so slogans that form the root text of the mind training practice are designed as a set of antidotes to undesired mental habits that cause suffering. They contain both methods to expand one's viewpoint towards absolute bodhicitta, such as \"Find the consciousness you had before you were born\" and \"Treat everything you perceive as a dream\", and methods for relating to the world in a more constructive way with relative bodhicitta, such as \"Be grateful to everyone\" and \"When everything goes wrong, treat disaster as a way to wake up.\"\n\nProminent teachers who have popularized this practice in the West include Pema Chödrön, Ken McLeod, Alan Wallace, Chögyam Trungpa, Sogyal Rinpoche, Kelsang Gyatso, Norman Fischer and the 14th Dalai Lama.\n\nLojong mind training practice was developed over a 300-year period between 900 and 1200 CE, as part of the Mahāyāna school of Buddhism. Atiśa (982–1054 CE), a Bengali meditation master, is generally regarded as the originator of the practice. It is described in his book \"Lamp on the Path to Enlightenment\" (\"Bodhipathapradīpaṃ\"). The practice is based upon his studies with the Sumatran teacher, Dharmakīrtiśrī (Tib. \"Serlingpa\", Wylie: gser gling pa), and the Indian teacher Dharmarakṣita, a prominent teacher at Odantapuri and author of a text called the \"Wheel of Sharp Weapons\". Both these texts are well known in Tibetan translation. Atiśa's third major teacher of lojong is said to have been the junior Kusalī, known also as Maitrīyogi.\n\nAtiśa journeyed to Sumatra and studied with Dharmakīrtiśrī for twelve years. He then returned to teach in India, but at an advanced age accepted an invitation to teach in Tibet, where he stayed for the rest of his life.\n\nA story is told that Atiśa heard that the inhabitants of Tibet were very pleasant and easy to get along with. Instead of being delighted, he was concerned that he would not have enough negative emotion to work with in his mind training practice. So he brought along his ill-tempered Bengali servant-boy, who would criticize him incessantly and was challenging to spend time with. Tibetan teachers then like to joke that when Atiśa arrived in Tibet, he realized there was no need after all.\n\nThe aphorisms on mind training in their present form were composed by Chekawa Yeshe Dorje (1101–1175 CE). According to one account, Chekhawa saw a text on his cell-mate's bed, open to the phrase: \"Gain and victory to others, loss and defeat to oneself\". The phrase struck him and he sought out the author Langri Tangpa (1054–1123). Finding that Langri Tangpa had died, he studied instead with one of Langri Tangpa's students, Sharawa Yönten Drak, for twelve years.\n\nChekhawa is claimed to have cured leprosy with mind training. In one account, he went to live with a colony of lepers and did the practice with them. Over time many of them were healed, more lepers came, and eventually people without leprosy also took an interest in the practice. Another popular story about Chekhawa and mind training concerns his brother and how it transformed him into a much kinder person.\n\nThe original Lojong practice consists of 59 slogans, or aphorisms. These slogans are further organized into seven groupings, called the \"7 Points of Lojong\". The categorized slogans are listed below, translated by the Nalanda Translation Committee under the direction of Chögyam Trungpa. The following is translated from ancient Sanskrit and Tibetan texts and may vary slightly from other translations. Many contemporary gurus and experts have written extensive commentaries elucidating the Lojong text and slogans.\n\nPoint One: The preliminaries, which are the basis for dharma practice\n\nPoint Two: The main practice, which is training in bodhicitta.\n\nPoint Three: Transformation of Bad Circumstances into the Way of Enlightenment\n\nPoint Four: Showing the Utilization of Practice in One's Whole Life\n\nPoint Five: Evaluation of Mind Training\n\nPoint Six: Disciplines of Mind Training\n\nPoint Seven: Guidelines of Mind Training\nOne seminal commentary on the mind training practice was written by Jamgon Kongtrul (one of the main founders of the non-sectarian Rime movement of Tibetan Buddhism) in the 19th century. This commentary was translated by Ken McLeod, initially as \"A Direct Path to Enlightenment\". This translation served as the root text for Osho's \"Book of Wisdom\". Later, after some consultation with Chögyam Trungpa, Ken McLeod retranslated the work as \"The Great Path of Awakening\".\n\nTwo commentaries to the root texts of mind training have been written by Kelsang Gyatso (founder of the New Kadampa Tradition) and form the basis of study programs at NKT Buddhist Centers throughout the world. The first, \"Universal Compassion\" is a commentary to the root text \"Training the Mind in Seven Points\" by Chekawa Yeshe Dorje. The second, \"Eight Steps to Happiness\" is a commentary to the root text, \"Eight Verses of Training the Mind\" by Langri Tangpa.\n\nIn 2006, Wisdom Publications published the work \"Mind Training: The Great Collection\" (\"Theg-pa chen-po blo-sbyong rgya-rtsa\"), translated by Thupten Jinpa. This is a translation of a traditional Tibetan compilation, dating from the fifteenth century, which contains altogether forty-three texts related to the practice of mind training. Among these texts are several different versions of the root verses, along with important early commentaries by Se Chilbu, Sangye Gompa, Konchok Gyaltsen, and others.\n\nIn 2012, Shambhala Publications published \"Training in Compassion: Zen teachings on the Practice of Lojong\" by Zoketsu Norman Fischer which teaches ways to incorporate Lojong practices into Zen. Fischer felt that \"the plain-speaking tradition of Zen might lend something to the power of the text\" and that \"although Zen is a Mahayana school (and therefore based on compassion teachings), it is nevertheless deficient in explicit teachings on compassion\".\n\nIn 2016, Shambhala Publications published \"The Intelligent Heart: A Guide to the Compassionate Life\" by Dzigar Kongtrul Rinpoche, with foreword by Pema Chodron. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35737945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35737945", "title": "Mastère en sciences", "text": "Mastère en sciences\n\nThe Maîtrise en sciences (MSc) is a French degree in higher education accredited by the \"Conférence des Grandes Écoles\" and for owners of a Bachelor's degree or a first year of a Master's degree. Created in 2002, this degree certifies that the training is consistent with various quality criteria (selectivity, English language education, number of hours, length of program, research, etc..).\n\nAccording to the rules of organization of training programs accredited by the \"Conférence des Grandes Écoles\", \"\"The MSc ... of the School ...\" is a program accredited by the \"Conférence des grandes écoles\" that certifies, according to criteria, of the quality of a comprehensive training package to international standards and taught in English.\"\n\nBe considered candidates who hold a student of the following qualifications:\n\nTraining must be attested by a diploma respecting the regulations applicable to the school which has received accreditation.\n\nAccording to the rules, only the schools members of the \"Conférence des Grandes Écoles\" may issue the diploma.\n"}
{"id": "44210893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44210893", "title": "National Development Programme in Computer Aided Learning", "text": "National Development Programme in Computer Aided Learning\n\nThe National Development Programme in Computer Aided Learning (NDPCAL) was the earliest large-scale education programme in the UK to explore the use of computers for teaching and learning. First proposed in 1969 to the Department of Education and Science by the National Council for Educational Technology (soon to be renamed The Council for Educational Technology) it ran from 1973 to 1977 spending £2.5M to support some 35 projects covering a range of subjects. About half the money was spent on projects in universities and the rest on projects in schools, colleges, industrial and military training. Richard Hooper was appointed its Director and operated with a small central team and the programme was administered by the Council for Educational Technology.\n\nDuring the 1960s various projects in the USA and the UK using mainframe and mini-computers began to develop the field of Computer Aided Learning and there was much debate about its value and effectiveness. The National Council for Educational Technology (renamed Council for Educational Technology (CET)) produced advice to government in 1969 to run a national development programme to explore the value of these approaches. After much discussion amongst the interested departments and an intervening general election, the Department for Education and Science (DES) announced in 1972 the approval by the Secretary of State (Mrs Thatcher) to a 'national development programme in computer assisted learning'. Following the announcement of the Programme the post of Director was advertised.and Richard Hooper, BBC Senior Producer in the Faculty of Educational Studies at the Open University was selected.\n\nNDPCAL's strategy was to work mainly with existing projects in Computer Aided Learning but also to develop feasibility projects with those with good ideas. It required joint funding from the host establishment and stipulated effective evaluation and monitoring processes but allowed a significant degree of autonomy to the projects. The approach of the central team was active and interventionist, working alongside potential projects in their early stages to help develop their design and approach. They also focussed on good project management requiring four monthly accounting periods and carefully controlling expenditure.\n\nCET was asked to provide administrative services to the new programme, and the programme's central staff were CET employees but executive control was with a committee made up of civil servants from seven government departments plus a group of co-opted advisers. This Programme Committee was chaired by the DES. The Programme Committee was more than just a rubber stamping committee, it held the final say on proposals from the Programme Director and involved itself in project evaluation, setting up sub-committees of three or so of its members to look in detail at a particular proposal or project. Although each of the thirty projects had its own steering committee national linkage was maintained through a member of the national Programme Committee sitting on each project steering committee.\n\nFrom January 1973 to early summer 1973, there was a phase of exploration and consultation and from the summer of 1973 to the end of the year, there was the setting up of the Programme's management structure and of the first generation of major projects, notably in the university sector. Richard Hooper was supported by two assistant directors, Mrs Gillian Frewin (from ICL) and Roger Miles (from the Army School of Instructional Technology). They were supported by two other executive posts and three secretaries.\nThe programme formulated two main aims over its lifetime (Hooper, 1975, p17):\nTwo evaluations were set up, one to consider the educational benefits and one to consider the financial aspects.\n\nThis first government funded programme to look at the use of computers focused on their use for learning other subjects rather than about computers or programming them. It supported some 35 projects, seven in schools, a number in higher education but the majority were based on the armed services’ growing interest in developing more automated and managed approaches to training. The hardware was limited; the computers were large expensive cabinets of complicated electronics accessed mainly by paper tape with Teletype printouts but already the focus was more on the way technology could be used to improve teaching and learning than as a subject in its own right. This dichotomy continues throughout this history and different policies struggled with, and often confused this difference.\nNDPCAL funded a wide range of different projects - of different types, covering a range of subjects and age ranges sectors. Some of these such as Chelsea College's Computers in the Undergraduate Science Curriculum developed into the Computers in the Curriculum Project and Hertfordshire's Computer Managed Mathematics helped the Advisory Unit for Computer Based Education (AUCBE) at Hatfield develop.\n\nIt classified projects into different stages\nStage 1 - Design and Feasibility - a project that shows that a particular application of CAL or CML is feasible by developing and piloting applications.\nStage 2 - Development and Transferability - the creation of a working system for increasing numbers of students across a number of institutions.\nStage 3 - Model Operation - a fully operational project able to act as a model for others.\nStage 4 - Assimilation and Dissemination - national funding is being phased out and the institution has taken ownership with other new institutions taking it up.\n\nAbout half the project funds were spent on projects in universities and polytechnics, about one-sixth of the project funds was spent on schools based projects and the rest on military and industrial training. Some of the projects are listed below.\n\n\nNDPCAL set up two independent evaluations: an educational evaluation carried out by the University of East Anglia and a financial evaluation by Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Co. \nThe Educational Evaluation, UNCAL (Understanding Computer Assisted Learning) was carried out over a period of three years evaluation project and reported findings about CAL in general. Its findings echo many of the later findings of the effectiveness of e-learning and provided a good summary of the benefits and disadvantages:\n\nThe financial evaluation reported some tentative but interesting conclusions in their study that again reflect later findings on e-learning:\n\n\nThey calculated the 'national or total cost per student terminal hour' in the range £4-£15 by comparison the cost of conventional teaching was in the range £0.60-£2.50 per student hour.\n"}
{"id": "3288045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3288045", "title": "National University of Cuyo", "text": "National University of Cuyo\n\nThe National University of Cuyo (, UNCuyo) is the largest center of higher education in the province of Mendoza, Argentina.\n\nAs of 2005, the university had 12 academic schools in the city of Mendoza and a delegation in the city of San Rafael (province of Mendoza), in addition to the Balseiro Institute, which is the most developed institute of Physics research in Argentina, located in the city of San Carlos de Bariloche (province of Río Negro). It includes the University Technological Institute which offers technical education in four other cities in Mendoza province. Moreover, UNCuyo is also devoted to improving education due to having 7 other buildings working as High Schools:\n\nThe UNCuyo was established on March 21, 1939 by the presidential decree 26971. The university was established to offer tertiary education provision in the region of Cuyo (the provinces of Mendoza, San Juan and San Luis). At its foundation the university was composed of some existing higher education colleges, and new ones were incorporated. Regional affiliations were established in Human Sciences, Medicine, Agronomy and Economics in Mendoza, Engineering and Architecture in San Juan, and Natural Sciences in San Luis. These links remained in place until 1973. That year the National University of San Juan and the National University of San Luis were established from the adjunct faculties of the National University of Cuyo already in these regions. Thereafter, the National University of Cuyo concentrated itself in Mendoza, in addition to a campus in Río Negro Province: the Balseiro Institute.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThere are many others. For further information please visit: http://www.fce.uncu.edu.ar/paginas/index/cursos\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn recent research conducted by UNCuyo's students it was discovered how methods of cutting and preparing food can affect how many nutrients are retained in a meal. Notably they found that the thiosulfinates (that inhibit platelet aggregation and microparticle shedding) found in garlic and onions do not form until crushing or cutting. The research also demonstrated that steaming instead boiling is preferable as vegetables retain more of their water-soluble vitamins.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33835479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33835479", "title": "Paradata (learning resource analytics)", "text": "Paradata (learning resource analytics)\n\nAs a general definition, paradata are usage data about learning resources that include not just quantitative metrics (e.g., how many times a piece of content was accessed), but also pedagogic context, as inferred through the actions of educators and learners. Paradata may be operationalized as a specific type of metadata, however the construct differs from traditional descriptive metadata that classify the properties of the learning resource itself, and instead involves the capture—and open resharing—of in situ information about online users’ actions related to the resource. Learning resource paradata is generated through user processes of searching for content, identifying interest for subsequent use, correlating resources to specific learning goals or standards, and integrating content into educational practices. Paradata may include individual or aggregate user interactions such as viewing, downloading, sharing to other users, favoriting,and embedding reusable content into derivative works, as well as contextualizing activities such as aligning content to educational standards, adding tags, and incorporating resources into curriculum. Context about users is also of interest as paradata, including grade level or subject taught, experience level, or geographic location—as is information about the curricular relevance, audience, methodologies, and instructional settings of use as a resource is adopted by practitioners. Paradata are generally anonymized and/or aggregated at the community level to protect the privacy of individual users as data are shared between learning communities. Paradata may be expressed in realtime data streaming as user actions occur, or as periodic reporting of user activities over a range of time.\n\nRelated concepts include Contextualized Attention Metadata, activity streams, tagging and other social metadata, and user annotations.\n\nIn 2010, the term paradata was adopted by the National Science Digital Library (NSDL) to reference data about user interactions with digital learning objects within the NSDL’s STEM Exchange initiative. The construct has since been adopted by other organizations engaged in digital library and digital learning resource projects including the Learning Registry initiative spearheaded by the Office of Educational Technology at the U.S. Department of Education and the Advanced Distributed Learning Initiative at the Department of Defense.\n\nIn February 2011, NSDL released an open source XML paradata framework versioned as NSDL comm_para1.0, the structure of which parallels similar schemas for metadata so that it can interoperate with Dublin Core based schemas including nsdl-dc.\n\nIn October, 2011 the Learning Registry development team released its Paradata Specification V1.0 [ that details the schemata of JSON objects for representing learning resource paradata. In 2016 the US Dept of Ed and others published a spec for various companies to push their paradata to the Learning Registry. That would mean various resource libraries could aggregate data on educational resources in one place. As an example, OpenEd, Google, Microsoft and others would push data on how many times an educational video was used by teachers, to help rank them by popularity.\n\n"}
{"id": "3675403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3675403", "title": "Paule Marshall", "text": "Paule Marshall\n\nPaule Marshall (born April 9, 1929) is an American author, best known for her 1959 novel \"Brown Girl, Brownstones\". In 1992, at the age of 63, Marshall was awarded a Macarthur Fellowship Grant.\n\nMarshall was born Valenza Pauline Burke in Brooklyn, NY, to Adriana Viola Clement Burke and Sam Burke. Marshall's father had migrated from Barbados to New York in 1919 and, during her childhood, deserted the family to join a quasi-religious cult, leaving his wife to raise their children by herself. Smitten with the poet Paul Laurence Dunbar, Marshall changed her given name from Pauline to Paule (with a silent e) when she was 12 or 13. Marshall attended Girls’ High School in Bedstuy and subsequently enrolled in Hunter College with plans of becoming a social worker. She took ill during college and took a year off, during which time she decided to major in English Literature, eventually earning her Bachelor of Arts at Brooklyn College in 1953 and her master's degree at Hunter College in 1955. After graduating college, Marshall wrote for \"Our World\", the acclaimed nationally distributed magazine edited for African-American readers, which she credited with teaching her discipline in writing and eventually aiding her in writing her first novel, \"Brown Girl, Brownstones\". In 1950 she married psychologist Kenneth Marshall; they divorced in 1963. In the 1970s she married Nourry Menard, a Haitian businessman.\n\nEarly in her career, she wrote poetry, but later returned to prose, her novel \"Brown Girl, Brownstones\" being published in 1959. \"Brown Girl, Brownstones\" tells the story of Selina Boyce, a girl growing up in a small black immigrant community. Selina is caught between her mother, who wants to conform to the ideals of her new home and make the American dream come true, and her father, who longs to go back to Barbados. The dominant themes in the novel – travel, migration, psychic fracture and striving for wholeness – are important structuring elements in her later works as well.\n\nShe received a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1960 and the following year published \"Soul Clap Hands and Sing\", a collection of four novellas that won her the National Institute of Arts Award. In 1965, she was chosen by Langston Hughes to accompany him on a State Department-sponsored world tour, on which they both read their work, which was a boon to her career. She subsequently published the novels \"The Chosen Place, the Timeless People\" (1969), which the \"New York Times Book Review\" called \"one of the four or five most impressive novels ever written by a black American\", and \"Praisesong for the Widow\" (1983), the latter winning the Before Columbus Foundation American Book Award in 1984.\n\nMarshall has taught at Virginia Commonwealth University, the University of California, Berkeley, the Iowa Writers' Workshop, and Yale University before holding the Helen Gould Sheppard Chair of Literature and Culture at New York University. In 1993 she received an honorary L.H.D. from Bates College. Now retired, she lives in Richmond, Virginia.\n\nShe is a MacArthur Fellow and is a past winner of the Dos Passos Prize for Literature. She was designated as a Literary Lion by the New York Public Library in 1994.\n\nMarshall was inducted into the Celebrity Path at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden in 2001.\n\nHer memoir, \"Triangular Road\", was published in 2009.\n\nIn 2010, Paule Marshall won a Lifetime Achievement Award from the Anisfield-Wolf Book Awards.\n\n\n\"I realise that it is fashionable now to dismiss the traditional novel as something of an anachronism, but to me it is still a vital form. Not only does it allow for the kind of full-blown, richly detailed writing that I love… but it permits me to operate on many levels and to explore both the inner state of my characters as well as the worlds beyond them.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "53078534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53078534", "title": "Pirates: Captain's Quest", "text": "Pirates: Captain's Quest\n\nPirates: Captain's Quest is a 1997 educational adventure video game. In Spain the game was published by Zeta Multimedia.\n\nThe game allows the player to take control of the pirate Blackbeard the 1700s, who on his quest to capture Christopher Columbus' ship Santa Maria will allow the player to experience the pirating lifestyle with activities such as sword fighting, navigation, island conquering, and digging for buried treasure.\n\nPrimarily an adventure game (due to requiring players to hunt for items and gather knowledge from characters to complete puzzles), the title contains 47 levels. It also contains minigames in other genres.\n\nAndy Backer of \"Computer Games Magazine\" positively compared it to Microprose's similarly-themed title Pirates Gold. J.P. Faber of U.S. Kids deemed it \"terrifically fun\" due to creating a historically authentic atmosphere. Daily Record thought thegame would keep kids entertained for hours, while educating them in the process.\n"}
{"id": "54726083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54726083", "title": "Playing History 2 - Slave Trade", "text": "Playing History 2 - Slave Trade\n\nPlaying History 2 - Slave Trade is an educational game developed and published by Serious Games Interactive, and released on September 13, 2013 for Windows and Mac OS X on the Steam platform.\n\nThe game caused a great deal of controversy for its inclusion of a \"Slave Tetris\" minigame, which was later removed, and other insensitive depictions of slavery.\n\nFree downloadable versions of the games were uploaded to the series' website.\n\nThe main character is a young slave boy named Tim, who must help his master, a slave ship captain, transport 300 slaves to the Americas. The player must pilot the slave ship, collecting items that replenish your food and avoiding wind blasts. Other minigames in the game formerly included a \"Tetris\"-like mode in which the player needed to \"stack\" slaves in the storage compartment of the ship. The player can help their master bargain with the locals to reduce the price of slave children, in order to earn points.\n\nDuring the game's campaign on Steam Greenlight, users had raised concerns about the game, but the game's developers defended the controversial \"Slave Tetris\" mode. After the game was released on Steam, several years after its original release date, a large number of users complained that the game trivialized slavery. The game's developers removed the \"Tetris\"-like level and issued an apology on Steam. The game's trailer was also updated.\n\nDespite this, critics still condemned the game for other issues, such as the player picking up icons of \"cakes and wine\" while collecting food, and the most sympathetic character in the game being a white doctor. Katherine Cross of Gamasutra called the entire game a \"dismal, tone-deaf failure at education\" that trivialized slavery, and criticized the Serious Games CEO Simon Egenfeldt-Neisen for blaming oversensitive critics and cultural differences for the debacle and not the poor quality of the game itself.\n\n\"Playing History: the Plague\" was given a positive review by Erik Champion in his book \"Playing with the Past\", where he praised its amusing game that appealed to a younger demographic.\n"}
{"id": "6437714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6437714", "title": "Polytechnic José Antonio Echeverría", "text": "Polytechnic José Antonio Echeverría\n\n<div align=\"justify\">\nToday Technological University of Havana José Antonio Echeverría, in its beginnings University City José Antonio Echeverría (CUJAE), whose old acronyms are still used for their popular recognition. With the triumph of the Revolution on January 1, 1959, a stage of revolutionary transformations began at Cuba in the national sphere and among the first were the educational ones. This creates the conditions to start a true university reform, dreams until then unique to the great Cuban masters: Varela, Martí, Mella, Varona and of all those who for years had fought and even given their lives to establish a worthy University that was only achieved with Fidel. It is attached to the Ministry of Higher Education of Cuba.\n\nOn February 15, 2017, the National Accreditation Board granted the superior category of excellence, for its results in the comprehensive training of students, research and its impact on the municipality, the nation and the outside.\n\nThe history of the CUJAE has its antecedents in the old School of Engineers, Electricians and Architects of the University of Havana, created on June 30, 1900, when they were dictated Military orders for that purpose. In a beginning it began in the old convent of San Agustín, today Museum of History of the Medicine Carlos J. Finlay, soon to happen to the Hill, ascribed to the Faculty of Sciences and Letters of that University Center, with the races of Civil Engineering and Electrical Engineering, adding the one of Architecture, the first of October of the same year.\n\nAs a result of the reform movement initiated in 1923, there is a significant shift in the programs that had not been reviewed for some twenty years, which caused changes in the curricula of the three aforementioned careers. In 1925 becomes School of Engineers and Architects, continuing within the Faculty of Letters and Sciences.\n\nUpon the enactment of the teaching law of 1937, twelve faculties are created at the University of Havana, within which the Faculty of Engineering and Architecture appears with new programs for Civil Engineering, Electrical Engineering and Architecture, which remained in force with slight modifications until 1960.\n\nIn January 1943 this Faculty is divided into two: Engineering, where you continue studying Civil Engineering and Electrical Engineering and Architecture, with the race of the same name.\n\nThe incorporation of a broad student movement to the insurrectional process then organized to overthrow the current government, causes the closure of the University in the year 1956, which does not reopen until after the revolutionary triumph of 1 January 1959.\n\nThe November 18, 1961 is founded the Faculty of Technology of the University of Havana, and on January 10, 1962 it is officially ratified by the Law of University Reform, integrating again, with six Schools : Civil Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Industrial Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Chemical Engineering and Architecture. Later they would appear: Mining Engineering, Geophysical Engineering, Hydraulic Engineering, Sugar Engineering and the technical level careers: Hydrotechnology and Topography.\n\nIn September 1960, the Commander in Chief Fidel Castro announced the purpose of building a university city; name her José Antonio Echeverría. There were three possible places for its realization, and by consensus was chosen the neighbor to the Central Toledo, now Central Manuel Martínez Prieto, in the current municipality of Marianao.\n\nThe March 13, 1961, commemorating the fourth anniversary of the assault on the Presidential Palace and the taking of Radio Reloj, the construction works were officially inaugurated. In the year of 1962 constructive work had advanced considerably but there was a pressing need for capital to subsidize the completion of the project. To this end, Engineer Altshuler prepared a report requesting technical assistance from the Special Fund of the United Nations, a request that met opposition from the representative of the United States, but since there were no strong reasons to reject it, they sought to obstruct it. always postponing their treatment in the Assemblies of said Organization. The pressure made by the Cuban diplomatic headquarters caused a Mission to be organized in April 1965, composed of Mr. Didier Manheimer, Consulting Engineer, Director of the International Formation Society of France and Audun Ofjord, Director of Bergen Materials Test and Research Laboratory. The visit verified that the report sent had been fulfilled, and that the Faculty was a concrete reality, since the teaching staff, the students had been developed and the installation was largely built. The project was approved in October of that same year, granting the amount of $2 007 600.00 USD.\n\nFinally December 2, 1964, Fidel Castro opens in this Capital, the University City José Antonio Echeverría, (CUJAE), occupying its facilities the Faculty of Technology of the University of Havana and the leveling courses, designed to properly train high school graduates, who aspired to study engineering careers.\n\nOn July 29, 1976, the José Antonio Echeverría Higher Polytechnic Institute was founded, by decision of the newly created Ministry of Higher Education (MES), which immediately promoted a national network of Higher Education Centers (CES), as a consequence of the growth of enrollment in the few existing universities and because of the justified need to perfect the National System at that level.\n\nThus, the Faculty of Technology is definitively separated from the University of Havana, becoming the Higher Polytechnic Institute José Antonio Echeverría CUJAE, being defined by Law as the Center responsible for the training of specialists in the field of technical sciences and It conferred the responsibility of being the Rector Center of Architecture and the engineering (Technical Sciences) that are taught in it, except those related to Mining Engineering and Agronomic Engineering that are no longer studied in the CUJAE and that transferred the rectories of the same to Higher Metallurgical Mining Institute of Moa and the Agrarian University of Havana.\n\nWith an independent structure, this university begins its teaching activities in the academic year 1976 - 1977 and with it would also open a new faculty, the Azucarera, whose antecedents are imbricated in the subsidiary created in 1972 in the Central \"Camilo Cienfuegos\".\n\nOn June 30, 2016, the agreement No.7943 of the Executive Committee of the Council of Ministers is taken, in which the integration of the universities in Cuba is concluded, where the approval of the name change is adopted in the sixth agreement. Higher Polytechnic Institute \"José Antonio Echeverría\", Technological University of Havana \"José Antonio Echeverría\", with the acronym CUJAE, giving both national and international University character.\n\nThe Technological University of Havana \"José Antonio Echeverría\" CUJAE is a university inherited from the tradition of more than a century in the teaching of engineering and architecture in Cuba, with a collective of workers and students, whose mission is to contribute to the sustainable development of Cuban society through comprehensive, continuous and efficient training of professionals of excellence committed to their Socialist Homeland, scientific and technical activity and university extension, with national leadership and international prestige in the field of technical sciences.\n\nThe Technological University of Havana \"José Antonio Echeverría\" CUJAE should become:\n• A bulwark of the Revolution that participates in a relevant way in the development of the Cuban socialist society, with professors and graduates, integral and of excellence, within a committed university community.\n• A center that strengthens its leading role in the technical sciences, with excellence in the integrated development of university management processes and an outstanding contribution to economic, sociocultural and environmental development.\n• A scientific, technological, cultured and humanistic university model of excellence in the Latin American area with international recognition for its relevant and effective training programs and for the impact of its scientific and technical results for the development of Cuban society.\n\nThe CUJAE is composed of more than forty buildings and covers an area of 398,000 square meters which include classrooms, laboratories, conference rooms, research centers, libraries, workshops, warehouses, dormitories, canteens, cafeterias, administrative offices, teaching offices, theaters, sports gyms, sports fields, medical dispensary, student recreation house, post office, department of editions, printing, and all kinds of facilities that contribute to the correct preparation of students.\n\nThe CUJAE has 9 faculties where 13 careers are studied.\nThe faculties are:\n\nThe races are:\n\nIt has 10 research centers, almost entirely associated with the faculties, they constitute the nucleus par excellence of scientific work, where the groups of the most relevant and most important results are grouped.\n\nThe Centers are:\n\nThroughout its history, the Cujae has graduated more than fifty thousand professionals, of which two have been foreign students, from countries in Latin America, Africa and Asia. More than ninety international projects of friendship and academic exchange have been developed with more than two universities in the world.\n\nNext, the list of deans and rectors that the Faculty of Technology has had and later the Polytechnical Superior Institute from its foundation date:\n\n\n\n\nIt currently has ten digital scientific journals, focused on topics related to engineering, architecture and pedagogy:\nScientific Publications:\n\nThe CUJAE is in a constructive process, which from 2017 to 2021 aims to renovate the center. The goal is to have the highest technology in each of its spaces: classrooms, laboratories, libraries, theaters, among others.\n\nThe CUJAE Project has its background in the act for the 50th anniversary of the institution chaired by the Raul Castro, president of the Councils of States and Ministers, who gave the guidance of \"putting the school at the height of the actual times\". Being a university of technical sciences and preparing students in architecture and engineering that are capable of carrying out projects for production, it was decided that they could carry out the projects in the school, but based on the improvement of it.\n\nIt has one of the most extensive intranets in the country with a network supported by a number of servers spread throughout the institution and managed by students and teachers. In this network you can find material of all kinds that successfully supports education lacking physical books but extensive in books and virtual articles.\n\nInternet on the other hand is restricted by a proxy server (Squid of linux) that allows controlled access for users of the same (teachers and students of the CUJAE). Recently it has increased its speed and types of access, currently allowing remote telephone access and increased information traffic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "238114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=238114", "title": "Real life", "text": "Real life\n\n\"Real life\" is a phrase used originally in literature to distinguish between the real world and fictional or idealized worlds, and in acting to distinguish between performers and the characters they portray. More recently, it has become a popular term on the Internet to describe events, people, activities, and interactions occurring offline; or otherwise not primarily through the medium of the Internet. It is also used as a metaphor to distinguish life in a vocational setting as opposed to an academic one.\n\nWhen used to distinguish from fictional worlds or universes against the consensus reality of the reader, the term has a long history:\nIn her 1788 work, \"Original Stories from Real Life; with Conversations Calculated to Regulate the Affections, and Form the Mind to Truth and Goodness\", author Mary Wollstonecraft employs the term in her title, representing the work's focus on a middle-class ethos which she viewed as superior to the court culture represented by fairy tales and the values of chance and luck found in chapbook stories for the poor. As phrased by Gary Kelly, writing about the work, \"The phrase ‘real life’ strengthens ‘original’, excluding both the artificial and the fictional or imaginary.\"\n\nSimilarly, the phrase can be used to distinguish an actor from a character, e.g. \"In real life, he has a British accent\" or \"In real life, he lives in Los Angeles.\"\n\nThere is a related but slightly distinct usage among role-players and historical reenactors, to distinguish the fantasy or historical context from the actual world and the role-player or actor from the character, e.g. \"What do you do in real life?\" or \"Where do you live in real life?\"\n\nOn the Internet, \"real life\" refers to life offline. Online, the initialism \"IRL\" stands for \"in real life\", with the meaning \"not on the Internet\". For example, while Internet users may speak of having \"met\" someone that they have contacted via online chat or in an online gaming context, to say that they met someone \"in real life\" is to say that they literally encountered them at a physical location. Some, arguing that the Internet is part of real life, prefer to use \"away from the keyboard\" (AFK), e.g. the documentary \"TPB AFK\".\n\nSome sociologists engaged in the study of the Internet have predicted that someday, a distinction between online and offline worlds may seem \"quaint\", noting that certain types of online activity, such as sexual intrigues, have already made a full transition to complete legitimacy and \"reality\".\n\nThe initialism \"RL\" stands for \"real life\" and \"IRL\" for \"in real life.\" For example, one can speak of \"meeting IRL\" someone whom one has met online, such as in \"LMIRL\" (\"let's meet in real life\"). It may also be used to express an inability to use the Internet for a time due to \"RL problems\". Some internet users use the idioms \"face time\", \"meatspace\", or \"meat world\", which contrast with the term \"cyberspace\". \"Meatspace\" has appeared in the \"Financial Times\" and in science fiction literature. Some early uses of the term include a post to the Usenet newsgroup austin.public-net in 1993 and an article in \"The Seattle Times\" about John Perry Barlow in 1995. The term entered the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" in 2000.\n\nThe phrase is also used to distinguish academic life from work in other sectors, in a manner similar to the term \"real world\". A person with experience in \"real life\" or the \"real world\" has experience beyond book-learning. It may also be used, often pejoratively, to distinguish other insular subcultures, work environments, or lifestyles from more traditional social and professional activities. The terms \"real life\" and \"the real world\" may also be used to describe adulthood and the adult world as distinct from childhood and adolescence.\n\n"}
{"id": "37153043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37153043", "title": "SEI RAE", "text": "SEI RAE\n\nThe Sociological Educational Institute of the Russian Academy of Education (SEI RAE) is a Russian science organization in the area of Sociology of Education.\n\nA decision to found the Sociological Educational Center in the structure of the Russian Academy of Education was made on the 22 December 1992. The Center started working fully in the beginning of 1993. Because of the structure reorganization of RAE it was renamed as Sociological Educational Institute in 2008. During this period of time more than fifty research works were carried out. Since the moment of its foundation the Institute has been developing constantly: it accepts new employees, carries out research projects by orders of scientific and public organizations. A great variety of scientific works is being published and translations of important foreign sociological papers are being made.\n\nNowadays the Institute continues working and developing actively. It collaborates with such organizations, funds and instates as:\n\n\nThe Institute also takes part in a number of international projects.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nProblems of tolerance in teenager subculture. The book is based on the results of investigations carried out under Federal Target programme “Set formation of tolerant consciousness and prevention from extremism in the Russian community” (2001–2005) and “Education in the Russian community: socio-cultural dynamic and institutional transformations”. The monograph examines peculiarities of different spheres of social reality: inter-confessional and international relations, interaction with representatives of informal groups, attitude towards representatives of risk groups (alcoholics, drug addicts, HIV-infected etc.).\n\n\nJewish kindergarten in Russia: problems, contradictions, perspectives. Sobkin V.S., Elyashevich E.K., Marich E.M. The monograph is based on the results of comparative socio-psychological research of teachers, parents and children of Jewish and Russian kindergartens. The research was carried out under investigational programme of Sociological Educational Center RAE. The work analyses general life orientations of teachers, their professional sets, peculiarities of pedagogical realization, professional competence and satisfaction. Life values of parents, strategies of upbringing and their attitude towards kindergarten are investigated. Peculiarities of intellectual development and emotional state of children in their families and kindergartens are studied.\n\n\nPolitical sociology of educational reforms: power/knowledge in education, teachers training and research. The book was written by one of the leading American researchers in the field of education. Philosophical reasons and socio-cultural tendencies which determine reformatory educational processes are analyzed in the book. It realizes a complex philosophical, sociological and historical approach to studies of educational policy.\nSome articles show concrete results of empirical investigations. Such aspects are analyzed there: the attitude of senior pupils towards national policy, specificity of formation value process of different national groups, the role of macrosocial surrounding in identity formation. The peculiarities of Self-concept of the Russian, Tatar, Bashkir, Tuvinian and Jewish teenagers are shown on the materials of psycho-semantic research. \nThe book is addressed to specialists who work in spheres of pedagogy, sociology, psychology, ethnography and culturology. The materials can be used for a student training on sociological and psychological faculties, training courses for employees of educational organizations. \nRussian teenager of the 90s: movement to risk zone, Sobkin V.S., Kuznetsova N. The report is devoted to the analysis of problems connected with sex education of teenagers and senior pupils. Such topics are considered in the report: aspects of social dynamic of teenager sex behavior, way of model translation of sex behavior in mass-media, modern family state in Russia, teenagers’ attitude towards family relations, teenagers’ awareness about sex relations, peculiarities of communication about sex relations.\n\n\n\n\nSocio-cultural analysis of educational situation in a megalopolis, Sobkin V.S., Pisarskyi P.S. The book presents the results of sociological poll of 2736 teachers, pupils and parents who live in Moscow. This poll was held in April–May in 1991. The research was carried out under scientific investigation project “Socio-cultural analysis of educational situation in a megalopolis” (Federal complex programme of scientific pedagogical studies of the Ministry of education of the RF “Educational development in Russia”).\nDynamic of artistic preferences of senior pupils, Sobkin V.S., Pisarskyi P.S. The book shows the results of studying dynamic of artistic preferences of senior pupils on the basement of sociological polls held in 1976-1991. This work discovers dynamic of artistic preferences of different art genres: visual arts, music, theatre, cinematography, fiction. The popularity of diverse TV-shows and periodicals was analyzed.\n\nScientific interests: sociology of education; infant, age and pedagogical psychology; psychology of art. Sobkin Vladimir Samuilovich is the initiator and the author of many research works in the sphere of sociology of education. He made a considerable contribution in the development of theoretical and applied aspects of sociology of education, social, age and pedagogical psychology. Particularly he has worked out methodological principles of multiway sociological analysis of educational situation, suggested the idea of socio-cultural educational trajectories, investigated types of parents’ upbringing strategies. In the beginning of the 90s he was a co-head in the development of the first Russian Federal Target Complex Programme “Russian education during transitional period: stabilization and developmental programme” (1991). At the same time he was an adviser of the Minister of education on the problems of sociology, the head of social service and a member of Ministry board of education of the RF. In 1992 due to his initiative Sociological Educational Center RAE was established, and he became its director-organizer (up to nowadays). In 2008 the Center was transformed into Institute of sociology RAE. It is the main organization which implements RAE complex programmes in the sphere of sociology of education. Under the guidance of V.S.Sobkin a number of large sociological research was carried out; it was aimed at receiving new fundamental knowledge and shaping scientific potential for the development of sociology of education as a scientific discipline. The results of these investigations are implemented into scientific pedagogical practice and accelerate quality changes in educational sphere, its transformation into a model of stable innovative development which provides institutional and functional modernization of Russian education, rise of its competitiveness. V.S.Sobkin is the head and the author of unique scientific research projects which were carried out within the bounds of Federal Target Programmes: “Educational development in Russia”, “The children of Russia”, “The children of Chernobyl”, “Set formation of tolerant consciousness and prevention of extremism in the Russian society” (2001–2005), “Informatization of educational system”. By the order of UNESCO an analytic report about deviant displays of teenager subculture was prepared (“Teenager of the 90s: movement to risk zone”). A great amount of scientific applied studies were carried out under the guidance of V.S.Sobkin by orders of several ministries and departments (Ministry of education and science of the Russian Federation, Moscow Department of education, Regional governing authorities of education of Krasnoyarsk Territory, Stavropolsk Territory, Republic of Karelia, Omsk region etc.). The results of these investigations were used to work out regional developmental educational programmes. V.S.Sobkin is Doctor of psychology, Professor, academician of the Russian Academy of education. He is the author of more than 400 scientific works, which were published both in Russia and abroad. Only during last years he published a number of monographs appreciated by scientific and pedagogical community: “Sociology of family upbringing: preschool age” (2002), “Problems of tolerance in teenager subculture” (2003), “ A teenager: virtuality and social reality” (2004, published in USA), “A teenager: norms, risks, deviations” (2005), “The attitude of participants of educational process towards informational communicational technologies” (2006), “A student of pedagogical university: estimation of life and professional perspectives” (2007), “Monitoring of social consequences of informatization: what has changed at school during 3 years?” (2008), “Teachers’ attitude towards Common State Exam (on the materials of sociological research)” (2009). In addition, more than 20 issues were published in scientific series “Studies on sociology of education” edited by V.S.Sobkin. Under the guidance of V.S.Sobkin Institute of sociology RAE has become a scientific institution which affectively explores the problems of sociology, connected with modernization of Russian education. Studies carried out in the Institute were recognized by scientific and pedagogical community. Scientific employee team and V.S.Sobkin were awarded to Presidential Prize in the sphere of education in 2001. The Institute has postgraduate course and trains qualified specialists among young scientists. A big amount of Candidate Theses in sociology, psychology and pedagogy was successfully defended under the guidance of V.S.Sobkin. Now V.S.Sobkin is scientific head of Theses of 8 postgraduate students. He is a member of Council on candidate and doctor theses defence in psychology (MSU, MPSU). Besides scientific and organizational activity, V.S.Sobkin is a chairman of Ethno-psychological section of the Russian psychological society, editor of scientific series “Studies on sociology of education”, a member of editorial board of the magazine “Questions of psychology”, “Questions of mental health of children and teenagers” and other issues. V.S.Sobkin was awarded to “Honorary Science Worker of the RF” (October 2008)\nand was decorated with Medal “ For service to motherland” II Degree (April 2004), Medal “In commemoration of 850 years of Moscow” (October 1997). In addition, he has such awards: Badge “Honorary worker of general education of the RF” (2002), the President Prize in the field of education for the year 2001, Letter of commendation of the Ministry of education (April 2000), Medal of K.D.Ushinskyi “For service to pedagogic sciences” (June 1998), Golden medal of the Russian Academy of education “For achievements in science” (November 2007).\n\n"}
{"id": "33185307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33185307", "title": "Science slam", "text": "Science slam\n\nA science slam is a scientific talk where scientists present their own scientific research work in a given time frame - usually 10 minutes - in front of a non-expert audience. The focus lies on teaching current science to a diverse audience in an entertaining way. The presentation is judged by the audience. A science slam is a form of science communication.\n\nScience slams are open to all fields of science. However, events specializing on particular topics exist as well. Examples include: technical science slams,\nhealth science slams,\nsociological science slams, \njunior science slams, kid's science slams, and\nbinational science slams.\n\n"}
{"id": "36177739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36177739", "title": "Share My Lesson", "text": "Share My Lesson\n\nShare My Lesson is a free teaching resources website with over 300,000 resources. It officially launched on June 19, 2012.\n\nThe American Federation of Teachers partnered with Britain's TES Connect with the aim of building the largest online community for US teachers to collaborate and share teaching resources and innovative ideas. There is a significant emphasis on resources to guide teachers on implementing the new Common Core State Standards. The announcement about Share My Lesson was made on June 19, 2012, at the Global Education Conference at Stanford University. The AFT and TES Global (the owners of the TES) are investing $10 million to develop the site.\n\nSpeaking at the launch, AFT president Randi Weingarten said that there was a need for quality, peer-assessed lesson plans that was not currently being met by other resource-sharing sites.\n\nThe site has received the support of Education Secretary Arne Duncan, who said that the program would benefit teachers everywhere. \"We must support the incredibly complex work teachers do at every opportunity, including by sharing and promoting best practices through online resources and communities of practice,\" he said.\n\nFrom the beginning, Share My Lesson has been committed to providing our community of members high-quality and effective lessons, useful information to use in the classroom and professional development. As of 2015, Share My Lesson has 900,000 members, more than 300k Toddler - Grade 12 resources which have been downloaded more than 10 million times.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23931712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23931712", "title": "Standing Advisory Council on Religious Education", "text": "Standing Advisory Council on Religious Education\n\nA Standing Advisory Council on Religious Education (SACRE) is an independent body which considers the provision of religious education in the area under the jurisdiction of its Local Authority, advising it and empowered to require a review of the locally agreed syllabus for Religious Education (RE). A SACRE is made up of representatives of the Local Authority, the Church of England, Association of Teachers and representatives of other faith or other Christian groups, as well as, increasingly, humanists and other interested non-religious groups.\n\nEach SACRE has wide-ranging statutory powers including: \n\nSeveral difficulties with the SACRE process have been recorded. Firstly, the ability of SACRE to represent the interests of the Buddhist community is highly questionable as minority religions often fail to be properly represented at all. In practice, it would take a great deal of trouble to update Agreed Syllabuses to reflect the latest trends in faith community composition or to reflect new pedagogies of RE. Even to monitor the national picture of AS content is difficult as they are often available only locally \n"}
{"id": "25032095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25032095", "title": "Times Higher Education World University Rankings", "text": "Times Higher Education World University Rankings\n\nTimes Higher Education World University Rankings is an annual publication of university rankings by \"Times Higher Education (THE)\" magazine. The publisher had collaborated with Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) to publish the joint \"THE–QS World University Rankings\" from 2004 to 2009 before it turned to Thomson Reuters for a new ranking system. The publication now comprises the world's overall, subject, and reputation rankings, alongside three regional league tables, \"Asia\", \"Latin America\", and \"BRICS & Emerging Economies\" which are generated by different weightings.\n\nTHE Rankings is often considered as one of the most widely observed university rankings together with \"Academic Ranking of World Universities\" and \"QS World University Rankings\". It is praised for having a new, improved ranking methodology since 2010; however, undermining of non-science and non-English instructing institutions and relying on subjective reputation survey are among the criticism and concerns.\n\nThe creation of the original \"Times Higher Education–QS World University Rankings\" was credited in Ben Wildavsky's book, \"The Great Brain Race: How Global Universities are Reshaping the World\", to then-editor of \"Times Higher Education\", John O'Leary. \"Times Higher Education\" chose to partner with educational and careers advice company QS to supply the data.\n\nAfter the 2009 rankings, \"Times Higher Education\" took the decision to break from QS and signed an agreement with Thomson Reuters to provide the data for its annual World University Rankings from 2010 onwards. The publication developed a new rankings methodology in consultation with its readers, its editorial board and Thomson Reuters. Thomson Reuters will collect and analyse the data used to produce the rankings on behalf of Times Higher Education. The first ranking was published in September 2010.\n\nCommenting on Times Higher Education's decision to split from QS, former editor Ann Mroz said: \"universities deserve a rigorous, robust and transparent set of rankings – a serious tool for the sector, not just an annual curiosity.\" She went on to explain the reason behind the decision to continue to produce rankings without QS' involvement, saying that: \"The responsibility weighs heavy on our shoulders...we feel we have a duty to improve how we compile them.\"\n\nPhil Baty, editor of the new Times Higher Education World University Rankings, admitted in Inside Higher Ed: \"The rankings of the world's top universities that my magazine has been publishing for the past six years, and which have attracted enormous global attention, are not good enough. In fact, the surveys of reputation, which made up 40 percent of scores and which Times Higher Education until recently defended, had serious weaknesses. And it's clear that our research measures favored the sciences over the humanities.\"\n\nHe went on to describe previous attempts at peer review as \"embarrassing\" in \"The Australian\": \"The sample was simply too small, and the weighting too high, to be taken seriously.\" THE published its first rankings using its new methodology on 16 September 2010, a month earlier than previous years.\n\nThe Times Higher Education World University Rankings, along with the QS World University Rankings and the Academic Ranking of World Universities are described to be the three most influential international university rankings. \"The Globe and Mail\" in 2010 described the Times Higher Education World University Rankings to be \"arguably the most influential.\"\n\nIn 2014 Times Higher Education announced a series of important changes to its flagship THE World University Rankings and its suite of global university performance analyses, following a strategic review by THE parent company TES Global.\n\nThe inaugural 2010-2011 methodology contained 13 separate indicators grouped under five categories: Teaching (30 percent of final score), research (30 percent), citations (research impact) (worth 32.5 percent), international mix (5 percent), industry income (2.5 percent). The number of indicators is up from the Times-QS rankings published between 2004 and 2009, which used six indicators.\n\nA draft of the inaugural methodology was released on 3 June 2010. The draft stated that 13 indicators would first be used and that this could rise to 16 in future rankings, and laid out the categories of indicators as \"research indicators\" (55 percent), \"institutional indicators\" (25 percent), \"economic activity/innovation\" (10 percent), and \"international diversity\" (10 percent). The names of the categories and the weighting of each was modified in the final methodology, released on 16 September 2010. The final methodology also included the weighting signed to each of the 13 indicators, shown below:\n\nThe \"Times Higher Education\" billed the methodology as \"robust, transparent and sophisticated,\" stating that the final methodology was selected after considering 10 months of \"detailed consultation with leading experts in global higher education,\" 250 pages of feedback from \"50 senior figures across every continent\" and 300 postings on its website. The overall ranking score was calculated by making Z-scores all datasets to standardize different data types on a common scale to better make comparisons among data.\n\nThe reputational component of the rankings (34.5 percent of the overall score – 15 percent for teaching and 19.5 percent for research) came from an Academic Reputation Survey conducted by Thomson Reuters in spring 2010. The survey gathered 13,388 responses among scholars \"statistically representative of global higher education's geographical and subject mix.\" The magazine's category for \"industry income – innovation\" came from a sole indicator, institution's research income from industry scaled against the number of academic staff.\" The magazine stated that it used this data as \"proxy for high-quality knowledge transfer\" and planned to add more indicators for the category in future years.\n\nData for citation impact (measured as a normalized average citation per paper), comprising 32.5 percent of the overall score, came from 12,000 academic journals indexed by Thomson Reuters' large Web of Science database over the five years from 2004 to 2008. The \"Times\" stated that articles published in 2009–2010 have not yet completely accumulated in the database. The normalization of the data differed from the previous rankings system and is intended to \"reflect variations in citation volume between different subject areas,\" so that institutions with high levels of research activity in the life sciences and other areas with high citation counts will not have an unfair advantage over institutions with high levels of research activity in the social sciences, which tend to use fewer citations on average.\n\nThe magazine announced on 5 September 2011 that its 2011–2012 World University Rankings would be published on 6 October 2011. At the same time, the magazine revealed changes to the ranking formula that will be introduced with the new rankings. The methodology will continue to use 13 indicators across five broad categories and will keep its \"fundamental foundations,\" but with some changes. Teaching and research will each remain 30 percent of the overall score, and industry income will remain at 2.5 percent. However, a new \"international outlook – staff, students and research\" will be introduced and will make up 7.5 percent of the final score. This category will include the proportion of international staff and students at each institution (included in the 2011–2012 ranking under the category of \"international diversity\"), but will also add the proportion of research papers published by each institution that are co-authored with at least one international partner. One 2011–2012 indicator, the institution's public research income, will be dropped.\n\nOn 13 September 2011, the \"Times Higher Education\" announced that its 2011–2012 list will only rank the top 200 institutions. Phil Baty wrote that this was in the \"interests of fairness,\" because \"the lower down the tables you go, the more the data bunch up and the less meaningful the differentials between institutions become.\" However, Baty wrote that the rankings would include 200 institutions that fall immediately outside the official top 200 according to its data and methodology, but this \"best of the rest\" list from 201 to 400 would be unranked and listed alphabetically. Baty wrote that the magazine intentionally only ranks around 1 percent of the world's universities in a recognition that \"not every university should aspire to be one of the global research elite.\" However, the 2015/16 edition of the Times Higher Education World University Rankings ranks 800 universities, while Phil Baty announced that the 2016/17 edition, to be released on 21 September 2016, will rank \"980 universities from 79 countries\".\n\nThe methodology of the rankings was changed during the 2011-12 rankings process, with details of the changed methodology here. Phil Baty, the rankings editor, has said that the THE World University Rankings are the only global university rankings to examine a university's teaching environment, as others focus purely on research. Baty has also written that the THE World University Rankings are the only rankings to put arts and humanities and social sciences research on an equal footing to the sciences. However, this claim is no longer true. In 2015, QS introduced faculty area normalization to their QS World University Rankings, ensuring that citations data was weighted in a way that prevented universities specializing in the Life Sciences and Engineering from receiving undue advantage.\n\nIn November 2014, the magazine announced further reforms to the methodology after a review by parent company TES Global. The major change being all institutional data collection would be bought in house severing the connection with Thomson Reuters. In addition, research publication data would now be sourced from Elsevier's Scopus database.\n\nThe reception to the methodology was varied.\n\nRoss Williams of the Melbourne Institute, commenting on the 2010–2011 draft, stated that the proposed methodology would favour more focused \"science-based institutions with relatively few undergraduates\" at the expense of institutions with more comprehensive programmes and undergraduates, but also stated that the indicators were \"academically robust\" overall and that the use of scaled measures would reward productivity rather than overall influence. Steve Smith, president of Universities UK, praised the new methodology as being \"less heavily weighted towards subjective assessments of reputation and uses more robust citation measures,\" which \"bolsters confidence in the evaluation method.\" David Willetts, British Minister of State for Universities and Science praised the rankings, noting that \"reputation counts for less this time, and the weight accorded to quality in teaching and learning is greater.\" In 2014, David Willetts became chair of the TES Global Advisory Board, responsible for providing strategic advice to Times Higher Education.\n\nTimes Higher Education places a high importance on citations to generate rankings. Citations as a metric for effective education is problematic in many ways, placing universities who do not use English as their primary language at a disadvantage. Because English has been adopted as the international language for most academic societies and journals, citations and publications in a language different from English are harder to come across. Thus, such a methodology is criticized for being inappropriate and not comprehensive enough. A second important disadvantage for universities of non-English tradition is that within the disciplines of social sciences and humanities the main tool for publications are books which are not or only rarely covered by digital citations records.\n\nTimes Higher Education has also been criticized for its strong bias towards institutions that taught 'hard science' and had high quality output of research in these fields, often to the disadvantage of institutions focused on other subjects like the social sciences and humanities. For instance in the former THE-QS World University Rankings, LSE was ranked 11th in the world in 2004 and 2005, but dropped to 66th and 67th in the 2008 and 2009 edition. In January 2010, THE concluded the method employed by Quacquarelli Symonds, who conducted the survey on their behalf, was flawed in such a way that bias was introduced against certain institutions, including LSE.\n\nA representative of Thomson Reuters, THE's new partner, commented on the controversy: \"\"LSE stood at only 67th in the last Times Higher Education-QS World University Rankings – some mistake surely? Yes, and quite a big one\".\" Nonetheless, after the change of data provider to Thomson Reuters the following year, LSE fell to 86th place, with the ranking described by a representative of Thomson Reuters as 'a fair reflection of their status as a world class university'. LSE despite being ranked continuously near the top in its national rankings, has been placed below other British universities in the Times Higher Education World Rankings in recent years, other institutions such as Sciences Po have suffered due to the inherent methodology bias still used. Trinity College Dublin's ranking in 2015 and 2016 was lowered by a basic mistake in data it had submitted; education administrator Bahram Bekhradnia said the fact this went unnoticed evinced a \"very limited checking of data\" \"on the part of those who carry out such rankings\". Bekhradnia also opined \"while Trinity College was a respected university which could be relied upon to provide honest data, unfortunately that was not the case with all universities worldwide.\"\n\nIn general it is not clear who the rankings are made for. Many students, especially the undergraduate students, are not interested in the scientific work of a facility of higher education. Also the price of the education has no effects on the ranking. That means that private universities on the North American continent are compared to the European universities. Many European countries like France, Sweden or Germany for example have a long tradition on offering free education within facilities of higher education.\n\nIn addition, \"THE\" also provides 150 Under 50 Universities with different weightings of indicators to accredit the growth of institutions that are under 50 years old. In particular, the ranking attaches less weight to reputation indicators. For instance, University of Canberra Australia established in Year 1990 at the rank 50 of 150 Under 50 Universities.\n\nVarious academic disciplines are sorted into six categories in \"THE\"'s subject rankings: \"Arts & Humanities\"; \"Clinical, Pre-clinical & Health\"; \"Engineering & Technology\"; \"Life Sciences\"; \"Physical Sciences\"; and \"Social Sciences\".\n\n\"THE\"'s World Reputation Rankings serve as a subsidiary of the overall league tables and rank universities independently in accordance with their scores in prestige.\n\nScott Jaschik of Inside Higher Ed said of the new rankings: \"...Most outfits that do rankings get criticised for the relative weight given to reputation as opposed to objective measures. While Times Higher Education does overall rankings that combine various factors, it is today releasing rankings that can't be criticised for being unclear about the impact of reputation – as they are strictly of reputation.\"\n\nFrom 2013 to 2015, the outcomes of the \"Times Higher Education\" Asia University Rankings were the same as the Asian universities' position on its World University Rankings. In 2016, the Asia University Rankings was revamped and it \"use the same 13 performance indicators as the THE World University Rankings, but have been recalibrated to reflect the attributes of Asia's institutions.\" \nThe \"Times Higher Education\" Emerging Economies Rankings (Formerly known as BRICS & Emerging Economies Rankings) only includes universities in countries classified as \"emerging economies\" by FTSE Group, including the \"BRICS\" nations of Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa. Hong Kong institutions are not included in this ranking.\n\n"}
{"id": "1519375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1519375", "title": "Two Plus Two Publishing", "text": "Two Plus Two Publishing\n\nTwo Plus Two Publishing is a private company established and owned by statistician and poker player Mason Malmuth. The company publishes books on poker and gambling written by professionals in the field such as David Sklansky, Dan Harrington, Bill Robertie, Collin Moshman, Ed Miller, Ray Zee, Sunny Mehta, Alan Schoonmaker, William Jockusch, and Malmuth himself.\n\nTwo Plus Two Publishing has sold over two million books and currently has more than 39 titles to its credit. According to Malmuth, the name was adopted from the cover design of his book \"Gambling Theory and Other Topics\" where the equation 2+2=4 was illustrated with card pictures. In addition, many of its titles are now being translated into many non-English languages.\n\nThe Two Plus Two website operates a popular Internet forum for discussions on mostly poker and gambling-related topics, where it also publishes the Two Plus Two monthly electronic magazine (which includes gambling articles by Two Plus Two authors and others, such as Nick Christenson and King Yao) and the weekly Two Plus Two Pokercast. Posts on the forums helped uncover the Absolute Poker cheating scandal that was later featured on 60 Minutes in 2008.\n\n\nThe Two Plus Two Pokercast is a weekly podcast that reports on both live poker and online poker. The show is hosted by Mike Johnson and poker pro Adam Schwartz, with regular contributions from a number of other poker strategists and players. Typically recorded on Tuesday nights in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, the show is released on Wednesday mornings via the iTunes Store and the Two Plus Two website. The show is sponsored by the Pokerstars VIP Club.\n\nThe hosts of the Two Plus Two Pokercast were the founders of “Rounders – The Poker Show” which launched in April 2005 on terrestrial radio station The Team 1040 (Vancouver) airing weekly on Sunday nights and archived on BigPoker.ca. Rounders ran for 134 episodes before Mike Johnson and Adam Schwartz co-created the Two Plus Two Pokercast in January 2008.\n\nInterspersed between segments of the show and advertisements are short strategy segments from top poker pros. Originally, the presenters of these segments were Two Plus Two authors and posters, however as of January 2009 LeggoPoker.com became the official strategy sponsor of the show, and now provides weekly strategy segments by their stable of video producers.\n\nAside from strategy segments are “Sklansky Minutes” recorded by Two Plus Two author David Sklansky. Subjects include poker and other games, general gambling theory and musings on life. A collection of similar musings and \"life strategy\" was published in January 2010 under the title \"DUCY?\" – Two Plus Two shorthand for \"Do You See Why?\".\n\nShortly after winning the 2006 World Series of Poker main event, Jamie Gold appeared on Episode #65 of Rounders, during the interview Gold discussed his backing arrangement with Crispin Leyser. In the following months, during litigation between Leyser and Gold over Gold’s Prize, audio of Gold’s interview on “Rounders – The Poker Show” was admitted as evidence in the case\n\n"}
{"id": "2348144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2348144", "title": "University of New York Tirana", "text": "University of New York Tirana\n\nUniversity of New York Tirana (UNYT) is an accredited private higher education institution in Tirana, Albania. Inaugurated in September 2002, it is the first private university in the country.\n\nIn Albania, Can a U.S. Diploma Deliver? New York Times 2012\n\nUNYT offers locally Bachelor’s degrees conferred by the State University of New York's Empire State College and study programs through the SUNY Learning Network.\n\nMost UNYT faculty members are foreign-educated Albanians. UNYT offers Bachelor, Master, and Doctoral degrees.\n\nSince September 2004, UNYT, in collaboration with Institut Universitaire Kurt Bösch in Sion, Switzerland and the University of Sunderland, offers a Master of Business Administration program. As of June 2004, UNYT has become an associate partner of the Cambridge University International Examinations.\n\nThe first rector was Prof. Dr. Gramoz Pashko (former Deputy Prime Minister and former Minister of Economy of the Republic of Albania), who died in a helicopter crash in July 2006.\n\nThere are 510 students enrolled in the academic programs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1600443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1600443", "title": "Visual culture", "text": "Visual culture\n\nVisual culture is the aspect of culture expressed in visual images. Many academic fields study this subject, including cultural studies, art history, critical theory, philosophy, media studies, and anthropology.\n\nAmong theorists working within contemporary culture, this field of study often overlaps with film studies, psychoanalytic theory, sex studies, queer theory, and the study of television; it can also include video game studies, comics, traditional artistic media, advertising, the Internet, and any other medium that has a crucial visual component.\n\nThe field's versatility stems from the range of objects contained under the term \"visual culture\", which aggregates \"visual events in which information, meaning or pleasure is sought by the consumer in an interface with visual technology\". The term \"visual technology\" refers any media designed for purposes of perception or with the potential to augment our visual capability.\n\nBecause of the changing technological aspects of visual culture as well as a scientific method-derived desire to create taxonomies or articulate what the \"visual\" is, many aspects of Visual Culture overlap with the study of science and technology, including hybrid electronic media, cognitive science, neurology, and image and brain theory. In an interview with the \"Journal of Visual Culture\", academic Martin Jay explicates the rise of this tie between the visual and the technological: \"Insofar as we live in a culture whose technological advances abet the production and dissemination of such images at a hitherto unimagined level, it is necessary to focus on how they work and what they do, rather than move past them too quickly to the ideas they represent or the reality they purport to depict. In so doing, we necessarily have to ask questions about ... technological mediations and extensions of visual experience.\"\n\nThe term \"Visualism\" was developed by the German anthropologist Johannes Fabian to criticise the dominating role of vision in scientific discourse, through such terms as observation. He points to an under theorised approach to the use of visual representation which leads to a corpuscular theory of knowledge and information which leads to their atomisation.\n\nIt also may overlap with another emerging field, that of performance studies. As \"the turn from art history to visual culture studies parallels a turn from theater studies to performance studies\", it is clear that the perspectival shift that both emerging fields embody is comparable. \"Visual Culture\" goes by a variety of names at different institutions, including Visual and Critical Studies, Visual and Cultural Studies, and Visual Studies.\nThere has appeared analysis which applies method with computational media. For example, in 2008, Yukihiko Yoshida did a study called \"Leni Riefenstahl and German expressionism: research in Visual Cultural Studies using the trans-disciplinary semantic spaces of specialized dictionaries.\" The study took databases of images tagged with connotative and denotative keywords (a search engine) and found Riefenstahl's imagery had the same qualities as imagery tagged \"degenerate\" in the title of Degenerate Art Exhibition, Germany at 1937.\n\nEarly work on visual culture has been done by John Berger (\"Ways of Seeing\", 1972) and Laura Mulvey (\"Visual Pleasure and Narrative Cinema\", 1975) that follows on from Jacques Lacan's theorization of the unconscious gaze. Twentieth-century pioneers such as György Kepes and William Ivins, Jr. as well as iconic phenomenologists like Maurice Merleau-Ponty also played important roles in creating a foundation for the discipline. For the history of art, Svetlana Alpers published a pioneering study on \"The Art of Describing: Dutch Art in the Seventeenth Century\" (Chicago 1983) in which she took up an earlier implus of Michael Baxandall to study the visual culture of a whole region of early-modern Europe in all its facets: landscape painting and perception, optics and perspectival studies, geography and topographic measurements, united in a common \"mapping impulse\".\n\nMajor works on visual culture include those by W. J. T. Mitchell, Griselda Pollock, Giuliana Bruno, Stuart Hall, Roland Barthes, Jean-François Lyotard, Rosalind Krauss, Paul Crowther and Slavoj Žižek. Continuing work has been done by Lisa Cartwright, Margaret Dikovitskaya, Nicholas Mirzoeff, and Jackie Stacey. The first book titled Visual Culture (Vizuális Kultúra) was written by in 1976. For history of science and technology, Klaus Hentschel has published a systematic comparative history in which various patterns of their emergence, stabilization and diffusion are identified.\n\nIn the German-speaking world, analogous discussions about \"Bildwissenschaft\" (image studies) are conducted, a.o., by Gottfried Boehm, Hans Belting, and Horst Bredekamp.\n\nVisual culture studies have been increasingly important in religious studies through the work of David Morgan, Sally Promey, Jeffrey F. Hamburger, and S. Brent Plate.\n\nWhile the image remains a focal point in visual culture studies, it is the relations between images and consumers that are evaluated for their cultural significance, not just the image in and of itself. Martin Jay clarifies, \"Although images of all kinds have long served as illustrations of arguments made discursively, the growth of visual culture as a field has allowed them to be examined more in their own terms as complex figural artifacts or the stimulants to visual experiences.\"\n\nLikewise, W. J. T. Mitchell explicitly distinguishes the two fields in his claim that visual culture studies \"helps us to see that even something as broad as the image does not exhaust the field of visuality; that visual studies is not the same thing as image studies, and that the study of the visual image is just one component of the larger field.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8152204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8152204", "title": "White Collar Zen", "text": "White Collar Zen\n\nWhite Collar Zen is a project by Steven Heine, who is primarily known for his research on medieval Japanese religion and society. The project deals with the principles of Zen Buddhism in relation to the contemporary workplace and professional leadership issues. \"White Collar Zen\" demonstrates how to incorporate Zen principles into daily work life in order to achieve professional success.\n\nIn addition to the book – \"White Collar Zen: Using Zen Principles to Overcome Obstacles and Achieve Your Goal\" (Oxford University Press, 2005) – White Collar Zen is a multi-faceted project that includes a unique course on Asian Cultural Values in Business sponsored by the Eugenio Pino Entrepreneurship Center at Florida International University, as well as workshops and conferences on ancient Asian wisdom and modern business.\n\nThe Asian Cultural Values in Business course was first taught in fall 2006. On November 17, 2006 a conference was held titled \"From East to West and West to East\". It included four panels that discussed how Asia has influenced the way the West does business and vice versa, and included such topics as Asian investment and international issues, leadership in a global perspective, and Asian cultural values and entrepreneurship. The panels featured student presentations from the Asian Cultural Values in Business course and various other speakers. Among them were authors of business negotiations in Asia: Mark McNeilly (Sun Tzu and the Art of Business: Six Strategic Principles for Managers), Bill Diffenderffer (The Samurai Leader), and Kaihan Krippendorff (The Art of Advantage: 36 Strategies to Seize the Competitive Edge).\n\nIn Asia, the mythical Fox is the primary symbol of how one can become entangled in a web of misunderstanding. The Fox, which appears to its unwitting victim in human form, represents the deception and duplicity that brings with it self-doubt and frustrates the pursuit of aspirations. It is a symbol of undesirable tendencies, such as chasing after unattainable aims while leaving important parts of life unattended. Along with Foxes who deceive, however, there are always the Buddhas who are eager to support, not because of personal ties or loyalty, but because they objectively evaluate the merits and demerits of a situation. Both the Fox and the Buddha are often disguised and each tries to pass as the other for strategic purposes. Distinguishing between them is a valuable skill. As decisions hang in the balance, the Unmoving Mind is a tool to separate truth or authenticity from illusion or untruth. Illusion renders you vulnerable to anxiety and confusion and unable to react to critical situations with clarity and lucidity.\n\nThe process of Elevation-Purification-Activation (EPA) cultivates four basic levels of human consciousness: feeling or emotion, speaking or communication, thinking or logic, and knowing or intuitive awareness. When one is controlled by emotions, his or her actions become hasty and s/he is likely to say something inappropriate. The key is to elevate and purify one's feelings so that they are balanced and objective. \n\nIn attaining the Hermit's objective, one can effectively bring about constructive change. Tamed emotions are transmuted into the foundation of productive understanding. Such an understanding enables one to act with the Warrior's effortless, spontaneous creativity.\n\nHeine describes how Zen embraces two different and seemingly contradictory yet harmonious paths of behavior. The Way of the Hermit teaches detachment – the mental clarity you need to view your situation dispassionately and impartially, to perceive who is a friend and who is an enemy, to understand what is possible and what is not. The Way of the Warrior teaches the ability to act without hesitation and at the appropriate moment. Together, the ways can prepare one to meet the challenges of the modern world of business. \n\nBoth ways can be applied to contemporary affairs. The Warrior is always on the move and is able to establish a base of power while transient. The shifts and transitions do not conflict, but in the end enhance the Warrior's abilities. The Hermit is also in a state of continuing transition. A hermit gains strength through passivity, standing back from conflict, looking at things clearly and objectively, and remaining noncommittal until it is absolutely necessary to react. He aggressively pursues passivity by moving, not standing still and seeking out areas and arenas where constructive passivity can best be applied. \n\nThe Warrior is dynamic, assertive and taking a stand. A Hermit is also dynamic in his own way by actively not taking a stand. In integrating the Warrior and Hermit approaches, Zen training provides a timely new paradigm for being clear in thoughts and disciplined in actions to establish harmonious interpersonal relations and attain mutually beneficial goals.\n\nA key objective is to transform dysfunctional conflicts (or Confrontations) rife with antagonism and turmoil into creative negotiations (or Encounters) characterized by shared purposes and cooperation. In a Confrontation, words do not ease tensions or have a reforming impact but cause the basic inflexibility of structure to tighten. It is characterized by personal will and gain, divisiveness, threats, and demands. It results in a direct challenge based on alternating aggressive and passive attitudes which lead to conflict and discord. \n\nA Confrontation compounds futility and leads to further misunderstanding, whereas an Encounter is a productive form of negotiation with mutually beneficial results. Through negotiations, agreements, and ongoing teamwork, one can use indirect methods to reach goals by creating situations that facilitate cooperation. Both approaches involve some kind of meeting but the former, by being one-dimensional in attitude, fails to mobilize multiple factors of constructive engagement.\n\nThe Four Steps are a means of developing self-discipline and self-control to overcome obstacles at the workplace and achieve success in the professional world through an Encounter. By cultivating the Unmoving Mind and by applying the methods discussed in \"White Collar Zen\", one is able to deal with professional challenges:\n\nRecognize a crisis in the structure of the work organizational environment and work through channels by investigating the roots of the problem, but without jumping to conclusions in either blaming others or remaining unassertive.\n\nSpeak creatively to alter perceptions and receptivity regarding a problem in organizational structure by getting one's message across effectively. One persuades not because of self-interest, but based on genuine commitment to ideals and goals.\n\nMove beyond reliance on words by knowing when to refrain from speaking if verbal communication falls short, and let events take a natural course through waiting patiently yet without becoming overly passive.\n\nWhen both words and no-words fail, a more inventive form of \"White Collar Zen\" is required, which is found in the fourth step, the path of anti-structure. Awakening the Unmoving Mind empowers you to cross over invisible lines of hierarchy and division. Seize the moment for a bold, break the rules anti-structural expression that is based on integrity and responsibility. Cutting through structure involves taking risks but can be appropriate and conducive to progressive interaction and growth. There are times when the attitudes or behavior of Zen masters are unpredictable and even outrageous in questioning authority that is arbitrary and therefore oppressive. A famous saying is, \"If you see the Buddha on the road, kill the Buddha.\" This approach relinquishes any attachment to security and safety and takes a Zen master's leap from a 100-foot pole.\n\n"}
{"id": "31691663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31691663", "title": "William C. Carter Award", "text": "William C. Carter Award\n\nThe William C. Carter Award is a technical award presented annually since 1997 for individuals whose graduate dissertation research has made an important contribution to the field of dependable computing. It is named after, and honors, the late William C. Carter, an important figure in the field. The award is sponsored by IEEE Technical Committee on Fault-Tolerant Computing (TC-FTC) and the IFIP Working Group on Dependable Computing and Fault Tolerance (WG 10.4).\n"}
