{"id": "21356658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21356658", "title": "Amdo Tibetan", "text": "Amdo Tibetan\n\nThe Amdolese language (; also called \"Am kä\") is the Tibetic language spoken by the majority of Amdolese,mainly in Qinghai and some parts of Sichuan (Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture) and Gansu (Gannan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture).\n\nAmdolese is one of the four main spoken Tibetic languages, the other three being Central Tibetan, Khams Tibetan, and Ladakhi. These four related languages share a common written script but their spoken pronunciations, vocabularies and grammars are different. These differences may have emerged due to geographical isolation of the regions of Tibet. Unlike Khams and Standard Tibetan, Amdolese language is not a tonal language. It retains many word-initial consonant clusters that have been lost in Central Tibetan.\n\nDialects are:\n\nBradley (1997) includes Thewo and Choni as close to Amdo if not actually Amdo dialects.\n\nHua (2001) contains word lists of the Xiahe County 夏河, Tongren County 同仁, Xunhua County 循化, Hualong County 化隆, Hongyuan County 红原, and Tianjun County 天峻 dialects of Amdo Tibetan in Gansu and Qinghai provinces.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33012772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33012772", "title": "Bay Area Science Festival", "text": "Bay Area Science Festival\n\nThe Bay Area Science Festival (BASF) is an annual science festival started in 2011 that takes place in the San Francisco Bay Area counties every year at the end of October/beginning of November. The BASF program features over 50 events each year. The program typically features large free hands-on science days called Discovery Days, one in the North Bay, one in the East Bay, and one at AT&T Park in San Francisco. Additionally, the program features lab tours, conversations with leading scientists, and performances from groups from around the nation. In 2013, around 70,000 people attended, which was a 30% increase from the year before.\n\nBASF planning is headquartered at the University of California, San Francisco. BASF's founder is former National Academy of Sciences president Bruce Alberts, and its director in 2011 was Kishore Hari. Principal institutional sponsors have included Chevron, Genentech, and UC San Francisco and funding has been provided in part, from the National Science Foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "5274942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5274942", "title": "Beta Colony", "text": "Beta Colony\n\nBeta Colony is an important planet (although rarely the setting) in Lois McMaster Bujold's science fiction series the Vorkosigan Saga.\nThe planet's biome is almost entirely desert, described as \"screaming hot\",\nand the colony itself exists primarily underground. Beta Colony's chief industries are weapons R&D and sex tourism.\n\nThe concept of Beta Colony was first created and introduced in \"Dreamweaver's Dilemma\".\nThe idea was later expanded upon in \"Shards of Honor\" when Bujold needed a homeworld for Cordelia Naismith.\n\nBeta Colony is noted for being a remarkably egalitarian state.\nBetan culture is also well known for its tolerance and liberal attitude towards all varieties of sexuality; a number of practices considered immoral on many other worlds, such as prostitution (in the form of paid sex therapy) and recreational drug use, are legal and accepted on Beta Colony.\nBeta Colony is also highly advanced, relative to most other planets, in many areas of technology and medicine.\nMany innovations mentioned in the Vorkosigan Saga originated on Beta Colony.\nFor this reason, Betan dollars are considered one of the most stable and valuable currencies.\n\nDue to its restricted habitats, reproduction is tightly regulated.\nAfter a girl has her first menstrual cycle, she receives a contraceptive implant, has her hymen cut, and has her ears pierced; it's considered a coming of age ceremony and a signal of young adulthood.\nIn order to have children, the two prospective \"co-parents\" must take a course together and pass a number of physical, psychological and economic tests before being issued parents' licenses.\nVery few families are authorized to have more than two children.\nThree-fourths of all Betan children are gestated in artificial wombs, although co-parents who prefer to have their children through old-fashioned pregnancy are free to do so.\nGenetically engineered Hermaphrodites form a significant minority of the Betan population.\n\nAs another ramification of Beta Colony's inhospitable climate and underground development, Betans do not have any noteworthy works of architecture, but are very proud of feats of grand interior design and enclosed public spaces, and consider natural materials such as wood to be almost ludicrously extravagant. Cordelia Naismith is astounded that Barrayarans would use an intricate, antique parquet wooden floor as a dance-floor; on Beta, it would have been preserved and safeguarded as a great work of art.\n\nBeta Colony does not have a large military, but what it does have is one of the most technologically advanced in the nexus.\nBeta Colony is a major arms supplier for other worlds, but they usually only sell weapons that have been made obsolete by their own most recent developments.\nThe civilian Betan Astronomical Survey, which serves a largely exploratory and scientific purpose, also acts as a reserve military force.\n\nMany place names on Beta Colony are derived from geological substances and phenomena, such as the city of Silica and its attendant university.\nAnother notable settlement is the largely hermaphrodite town of Quartz.\n\n\nAccording to the author, Beta Colony was one of the first two colonies founded by Earth, both by American efforts; the other, Alpha Colony, vanished in a manner likened to Roanoke.\nShortly thereafter, a world war destroyed much of America and effectively ended their space program, among others.\nAs a result, Beta Colony, with its emphasis on personal freedom and tolerance, technological innovation, economic stability and influence, and racial and cultural diversity, came to hold a place in the political landscape reminiscent of an idealized version of America, specifically California.\n\n"}
{"id": "28051541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28051541", "title": "Bharath Sriraman", "text": "Bharath Sriraman\n\nBharath Sriraman (born 1971) is an Indian-born mathematician, educator and academic editor, known for his interdisciplinary contributions at the nexus of math-science-arts, theory development in mathematics education, creativity research, and alternative education.\n\nBharath Sriraman is a professor of mathematics at the University of Montana – Missoula with an adjunct appointment in the department of Central and Southwest-Asian Studies. Sriraman is the founder and editor-in-chief of \"The Mathematics Enthusiast\", an independent open access journal hosted by University of Montana. He is the co-founder/co-editor-in-chief of two series with Springer Science+Business Media namely \"Advances in Mathematics Education\" and \"Creativity Theory and Action in Education\". He is also the series editor for a number of book series on alternative education published by Sense Publishers, and various topics in mathematics education with Information Age Publishing In addition to editing he is a prolific scholar with over 300 publications to date in numerous areas of research, and held numerous visiting professorships including those as International Fulbright Specialist at institutions in Nordic countries, Eurasia and South America \n\nBharath Sriraman graduated with a B.S. in mathematics from the University of Alaska Fairbanks in 1995 and obtained his Ph.D. in mathematical sciences in 2002 from Northern Illinois University under the analyst Robert Wheeler. In 2009, Northern Illinois University named him as one of 50 \"Golden alumni\" in the last 50 years for his significant contributions to research in mathematics education, gifted education and interdisciplinary research at the intersection of mathematics-science-arts. He previously received the School Science and Mathematics Association Early Scholar Award in 2007. In 2016 he was the recipient of the University of Montana Distinguished Scholar Award\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20759927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20759927", "title": "Blacklight poster", "text": "Blacklight poster\n\nA blacklight poster is a poster printed with inks which fluoresce under a black light. The inks used contain phosphors which cause them to glow when exposed to ultraviolet light emitted from black lights. \n\nAlthough black lights date to 1903 with the development of Wood's glass, fluorescent ink was not developed until 1932 when the Switzer brothers were inspired by a Popular Science article to experiment in their father's pharmacy. Their Day-Glo Color Corp. marketed the ink chiefly to the military before a counterculture emerged to embrace the aesthetic. The 1960s saw the pervasive use of illegal drugs, especially mass use of hallucinogenics such as LSD (lysergic acid diethylamide), mescaline, and marijuana for the first time. With the ability to glow and vibrate under ultraviolet light, the posters could simulate the sensations and visual distortions one experienced during an acid trip.\n\nIn the United States, blacklight posters emerged as part of the psychedelic fashion scene between 1967 and 1969. The style was popular in advertisements for concerts at venues like the Fillmore and Avalon Ballroom, and further promoted and commercialized by companies like Pandora Productions (established in Minneapolis, 1964) and the Houston Black Light Company (Houston, 1969). Designs ranged from respectful copies of concert posters to prurient adolescent fantasies. At its height radical black artists found inspiration in the aesthetic, such as Faith Ringgold's series of Black Light paintings that eschewed any white pigment, or Barbara Jones-Hogu's prints (especially Relate to Your Heritage). Commercial producers happily reciprocated by incorporating blaxploitation themes into their posters, as in George Goode's series for the Houston Black Light Company and George Stowe Jr.'s work for One Stop Posters.\n\nSince then, the art form has gone out of fashion and is generally viewed as a relic of the 1970s. \n\nAlthough blacklight posters have continually been produced since the 1960s, there has been a resurgence in popularity since 2007 as blacklight and glow-in-the-dark parties have become more popular. As of 2014, there are five companies actively producing new and classic flocked blacklight posters in a wide range of content, including music, nature, and pop culture. The black parts of these posters are overlaid with black flocking, which gives it a velvet feel, and these are often referred to as velvet posters.\n"}
{"id": "38656089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38656089", "title": "Book of Cynog", "text": "Book of Cynog\n\nThe Book of Cynog (; ; ) was a text of medieval Welsh law. It is quoted extensively by surviving sources but does not appear to have survived intact. However, the first 75 folios of Peniarth MS. 35 seem to be a medieval attempt to reconstruct the earlier book.\n"}
{"id": "3978080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3978080", "title": "Building information modeling", "text": "Building information modeling\n\nBuilding information modeling (BIM) is a process involving the generation and management of digital representations of physical and functional characteristics of places. Building information models (BIMs) are files (often but not always in proprietary formats and containing proprietary data) which can be extracted, exchanged or networked to support decision-making regarding a building or other built asset. Current BIM software is used by individuals, businesses and government agencies who plan, design, construct, operate and maintain diverse physical infrastructures, such as water, refuse, electricity, gas, communication utilities, roads, railways, bridges, ports and tunnels.\n\nThe concept of BIM has existed since the 1970s.\n\nThe term 'building model' (in the sense of BIM as used today) was first used in papers in the mid-1980s: in a 1985 paper by Simon Ruffle eventually published in 1986, and later in a 1986 paper by Robert Aish - then at GMW Computers Ltd, developer of RUCAPS software - referring to the software's use at London's Heathrow Airport. The term 'Building Information Model' first appeared in a 1992 paper by G.A. van Nederveen and F. P. Tolman.\n\nHowever, the terms 'Building Information Model' and 'Building Information Modeling' (including the acronym \"BIM\") did not become popularly used until some 10 years later. In 2002, Autodesk released a white paper entitled \"Building Information Modeling,\" and other software vendors also started to assert their involvement in the field. By hosting contributions from Autodesk, Bentley Systems and Graphisoft, plus other industry observers, in 2003, Jerry Laiserin helped popularize and standardize the term as a common name for the digital representation of the building process. Facilitating exchange and interoperability of information in digital format had previously been offered under differing terminology by Graphisoft as \"Virtual Building\", Bentley Systems as \"Integrated Project Models\", and by Autodesk or Vectorworks as \"Building Information Modeling\".\n\nThe pioneering role of applications such as RUCAPS, Sonata and Reflex has been recognized by Laiserin as well as the UK's Royal Academy of Engineering.\n\nAs Graphisoft had been developing such solutions for longer than its competitors, Laiserin regarded its ArchiCAD application as then \"one of the most mature BIM solutions on the market.\" Following its launch in 1987, ArchiCAD became regarded by some as the first implementation of BIM, as it was the first CAD product on a personal computer able to create both 2D and 3D geometry, as well as the first commercial BIM product for personal computers.\n\nThe US National Building Information Model Standard Project Committee has the following definition:\n\nTraditional building design was largely reliant upon two-dimensional technical drawings (plans, elevations, sections, etc.). Building information modeling extends this beyond 3D, augmenting the three primary spatial dimensions (width, height and depth) with time as the fourth dimension (4D) and cost as the fifth (5D). \nMore recently there are also references to a sixth dimension (6D) representing building environmental and sustainability aspects, and a seventh dimension (7D) for through-life facility management, although there are conflicting definitions (6D BIM). \nBIM therefore covers more than just geometry. It also covers spatial relationships, light analysis, geographic information, and quantities and properties of building components (for example, manufacturers' details).\n\nBIM involves representing a design as combinations of \"objects\" – vague and undefined, generic or product-specific, solid shapes or void-space oriented (like the shape of a room), that carry their geometry, relations and attributes. BIM design tools allow extraction of different views from a building model for drawing production and other uses. These different views are automatically consistent, being based on a single definition of each object instance. BIM software also defines objects parametrically; that is, the objects are defined as parameters and relations to other objects, so that if a related object is amended, dependent ones will automatically also change. Each model element can carry attributes for selecting and ordering them automatically, providing cost estimates as well as material tracking and ordering.\n\nFor the professionals involved in a project, BIM enables a virtual information model to be handed from the design team (architects, landscape architects, surveyors, civil, structural and building services engineers, etc.) to the main contractor and subcontractors and then on to the owner/operator; each professional adds discipline-specific data to the single shared model. This reduces information losses that traditionally occurred when a new team takes 'ownership' of the project, and provides more extensive information to owners of complex structures.\n\nUse of BIM goes beyond the planning and design phase of the project, extending throughout the building life cycle, supporting processes including cost management, construction management, project management and facility operation.\n\nBuilding information models span the whole concept-to-occupation time-span. To ensure efficient management of information processes throughout this span, a BIM manager (also sometimes defined as a virtual design-to-construction, VDC, project manager – VDCPM) might be appointed. The BIM manager is retained by a design build team on the client's behalf from the pre-design phase onwards to develop and to track the object-oriented BIM against predicted and measured performance objectives, supporting multi-disciplinary building information models that drive analysis, schedules, take-off and logistics. Companies are also now considering developing BIMs in various levels of detail, since depending on the application of BIM, more or less detail is needed, and there is varying modeling effort associated with generating building information models at different levels of detail.\n\nParticipants in the building process are constantly challenged to deliver successful projects despite tight budgets, limited manpower, accelerated schedules, and limited or conflicting information. The significant disciplines such as architectural, structural and MEP designs should be well coordinated, as two things can’t take place at the same place and time. Building Information Modeling aids in collision detection at the initial stage, identifying the exact location of discrepancies. \nThe BIM concept envisages virtual construction of a facility prior to its actual physical construction, in order to reduce uncertainty, improve safety, work out problems, and simulate and analyze potential impacts. Sub-contractors from every trade can input critical information into the model before beginning construction, with opportunities to pre-fabricate or pre-assemble some systems off-site. Waste can be minimised on-site and products delivered on a just-in-time basis rather than being stock-piled on-site.\n\nQuantities and shared properties of materials can be extracted easily. Scopes of work can be isolated and defined. Systems, assemblies and sequences can be shown in a relative scale with the entire facility or group of facilities. BIM also prevents errors by enabling conflict or 'clash detection' whereby the computer model visually highlights to the team where parts of the building (e.g.:structural frame and building services pipes or ducts) may wrongly intersect.\n\nBIM can bridge the information loss associated with handling a project from design team, to construction team and to building owner/operator, by allowing each group to add to and reference back to all information they acquire during their period of contribution to the BIM model. This can yield benefits to the facility owner or operator.\n\nFor example, a building owner may find evidence of a leak in his building. Rather than exploring the physical building, he may turn to the model and see that a water valve is located in the suspect location. He could also have in the model the specific valve size, manufacturer, part number, and any other information ever researched in the past, pending adequate computing power. Such problems were initially addressed by Leite and Akinci when developing a vulnerability representation of facility contents and threats for supporting the identification of vulnerabilities in building emergencies.\n\nDynamic information about the building, such as sensor measurements and control signals from the building systems, can also be incorporated within BIM software to support analysis of building operation and maintenance.\n\nThere have been attempts at creating information models for older, pre-existing facilities. Approaches include referencing key metrics such as the Facility Condition Index (FCI), or using 3D laser-scanning surveys and photogrammetry techniques (both separately or in combination) to capture accurate measurements of the asset that can be used as the basis for a model. Trying to model a building constructed in, say 1927, requires numerous assumptions about design standards, building codes, construction methods, materials, etc., and is therefore more complex than building a model during design.\n\nOne of the challenges to the proper maintenance and management of existing facilities is understanding how BIM can be utilized to support a holistic understanding and implementation of building management practices and “cost of ownership” principles that support the full life cycle of a building.  An American National Standard entitled \"APPA 1000 – Total Cost of Ownership for Facilities Asset Management\" incorporates BIM to factor in a variety of critical requirements and costs over the life-cycle of the building, including but not limited to: replacement of energy, utility, and safety systems; continual maintenance of the building exterior and interior and replacement of materials; updates to design and functionality; and recapitalization costs.\n\nBIM can potentially offer some benefit for managing stratified cadastral spaces in urban built environments. The first benefit would be enhancing visual communication of interweaved, stacked and complex cadastral spaces for non-specialists. The rich amount of spatial and semantic information about physical structures inside models can aid comprehension of cadastral boundaries, providing an unambiguous delineation of ownership, rights, responsibilities and restrictions. Additionally, using BIM to manage cadastral information could advance current land administration systems from a 2D-based and analogue data environment into a 3D digital, intelligent, interactive and dynamic one. BIM could also unlock value in the cadastral information by forming a bridge between that information and the interactive lifecycle and management of buildings.\n\nThe first software tools developed for modelling buildings emerged in the late 1970s and early 1980s, and included workstation products such as Chuck Eastman's Building Description System and GLIDE, RUCAPS, Sonata, Reflex and Gable 4D Series. The early applications, and the hardware needed to run them, were expensive, which limited widespread adoption. ArchiCAD's Radar CH, released in 1984 was the first modelling software made available on a personal computer.\n\nDue to the complexity of gathering all the relevant information when working with BIM on a building project some companies have developed software designed specifically to work in a BIM framework. These packages differ from architectural drafting tools such as AutoCAD by allowing the addition of further information (time, cost, manufacturers' details, sustainability and maintenance information, etc.) to the building model.\n\nThere is a BIM module in open source CAD software FreeCAD.\n\nBIM is often associated with Industry Foundation Classes (IFCs) and aecXML – data structures for representing information. IFCs have been developed by buildingSMART (the former International Alliance for Interoperability), as a neutral, non-proprietary or open standard for sharing BIM data among different software applications (some proprietary data structures have been developed by CAD vendors incorporating BIM into their software).\n\nPoor software interoperability has long been regarded as an obstacle to industry efficiency in general and to BIM adoption in particular. In August 2004 a US National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) report conservatively estimated that $15.8 billion was lost annually by the U.S. capital facilities industry due to inadequate interoperability arising from \"the highly fragmented nature of the industry, the industry’s continued paperbased business practices, a lack of standardization, and inconsistent technology adoption among stakeholders\".\n\nAn early example of a nationally approved BIM standard is the AISC (American Institute of Steel Construction)-approved CIS/2 standard, a non-proprietary standard with its roots in the UK.\n\nThe Hong Kong Housing Authority set a target of full BIM implementation in 2014/2015. BuildingSmart Hong Kong was inaugurated in Hong Kong SAR in late April 2013. The Government of Hong Kong mandates the use of BIM for all government projects over HK$30M since 1 January 2018 .\n\nIn India BIM is also known as VDC: Virtual Design and Construction. Due to its population and economic growth, India has an expanding construction market. In spite of this, BIM usage was reported by only 22% of respondents to a 2014 survey.\n\nThe Iran Building Information Modeling Association (IBIMA) was founded in 2012 by professional engineers from five universities in Iran, including the Civil and Environmental Engineering Department at Amirkabir University of Technology. While it is not currently active, IBIMA aims to share knowledge resources to support construction engineering management decision-making.\n\nBIM implementation is targeted towards BIM Stage 2 by the year 2020 led by the Construction Industry Development Board (CIDB Malaysia). Under the Construction Industry Master Plan 2016-2020, it is hoped more emphasis on technology adoption across the project life-cycle will induce higher productivity.\n\nThe Building and Construction Authority (BCA) has announced that BIM would be introduced for architectural submission (by 2013), structural and M&E submissions (by 2014) and eventually for plan submissions of all projects with gross floor area of more than 5,000 square metres by 2015. The BCA Academy is training students in BIM.\n\nSmall BIM-related seminars and independent BIM effort existed in South Korea even in the 1990s. However, it was not until the late 2000s that the Korean industry paid attention to BIM. The first industry-level BIM conference was held in April, 2008, after which, BIM has been spread very rapidly. Since 2010, the Korean government has been gradually increasing the scope of BIM-mandated projects. McGraw Hill published a detailed report in 2012 on the status of BIM adoption and implementation in South Korea.\n\nDubai Municipality issued a circular (196) in 2014 mandating BIM use for buildings of a certain size, height or type. The one page circular initiated strong interest in BIM and the market responded in preparation for more guidelines and direction. In 2015 the Municipality issued another circular (207) titled 'Regarding the expansion of applying the (BIM) on buildings and facilities in the emirate of Dubai' which made BIM mandatory on more projects by reducing the minimum size and height requirement for projects requiring BIM. This second circular drove BIM adoption further with several projects and organizations adopting UK BIM standards as best practice. In 2016, the UAE's Quality and Conformity Commission set up a BIM steering group to investigate statewide adoption of BIM.\n\nAustrian standards for digital modeling are summarized in the ÖNORM A 6241, published on March 15, 2015. The ÖNORM A 6241-1 (BIM Level 2), which replaced the ÖNORM A 6240-4, has been extended in the detailed and executive design stages, and corrected in the lack of definitions. The ÖNORM A 6241-2 (BIM Level 3) includes all the requirements for the BIM Level 3 (iBIM).\n\nThe Czech BIM Council, established in May 2011, aims to implement BIM methodologies into the Czech building and designing processes, education, standards and legislation.\n\nIn Estonia digital construction cluster (Digitaalehituse Klaster) was formed in 2015 to develop BIM solutions for the whole life-cycle of construction. The strategic objective of the cluster is to develop an innovative digital construction environment as well as new VDCM products, Grid and e-construction portal to increase the international competitiveness and sales of Estonian businesses in the construction field. The cluster is equally co-funded by European Structural and Investment Funds through Enterprise Estonia and by the members of the cluster with a total budget of 600 000 euros for the period 2016-2018.\n\nIn France, a Building transition digital plan - French acronym PTNB - has been created (mandated since 2015 to 2017 and under several ministries). There is also the French arm of buildingSMART, called Mediaconstruct (existing since 1989).\n\nIn December 2015, the German minister for transport Alexander Dobrindt announced a timetable for the introduction of mandatory BIM for German road and rail projects from the end of 2020. Speaking in April 2016, he said digital design and construction must become standard for construction projects in Germany, with Germany two to three years behind The Netherlands and the UK in aspects of implementing BIM.\n\nIn November 2017, Ireland's Department for Public Expenditure and Reform launched a strategy to increase use of digital technology in delivery of key public works projects, requiring the use of BIM to be phased in over the next four years.\n\nThrough the new D.l. 50, in April 2016 Italy has included into its own legislation several European directives including 2014/24/EU on Public Procurement. The decree states among the main goals of public procurement the \"rationalization of designing activities and of all connected verification processes, through the progressive adoption of digital methods and electronic instruments such as Building and Infrastructure Information Modelling\". A norm in 8 parts is also being written to support the transition: UNI 11337-1, UNI 11337-4 and UNI 11337-5 were published in January 2017, with five further chapters to follow within a year.\n\nIn early 2018 the Italian Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport issued a decree creating a governmental BIM Mandate compelling public client organisations to adopt a digital approach by 2025, with an incremental obligation which will start on 1 January 2019.\n\nLithuania is moving towards adoption of BIM infrastructure by founding a public body \"Skaitmeninė statyba\" (Digital Construction), which is managed by 13 associations. Also there is a BIM work group established by Lietuvos Architektų Sąjunga (a Lithuanian architects body). The initiative intends Lithuania to adopt BIM, Industry Foundation Classes (IFC) and National Construction Classification as standard. An international conference \"Skaitmeninė statyba Lietuvoje\" (Digital Construction in Lithuania) has been held annually since 2012.\n\nOn 1 November 2011, the Rijksgebouwendienst, the agency within the Dutch Ministry of Housing, Spatial Planning and the Environment that manages government buildings, introduced the Rgd BIM Standard, which it updated on 1 July 2012.\n\nIn Norway BIM has been used increasingly since 2008. Several large public clients require use of BIM in open formats (IFC) in most or all of their projects. The Government Building Authority bases its processes on BIM in open formats to increase process speed and quality, and all large and several small and medium-sized contractors use BIM. National BIM development is centred around the local organisation, buildingSMART Norway which represents 25% of the Norwegian construction industry.\n\nBIMKlaster (BIM Cluster) is a non-governmental, non-profit organisation established in 2012 with the aim of promoting BIM development in Poland. In September 2016, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction began a series of expert meetings concerning the application of BIM methodologies in the construction industry.\n\nCreated in 2015 to promote the adoption of BIM in Portugal and its normalisation, the Technical Committee for BIM Standardisation, CT197-BIM, has created the first strategic document for construction 4.0 in Portugal, aiming to align the country's industry around a common vision, integrated and more ambitious than a simple technology change.\n\nThe Russian government has approved a list of the regulations that provide the creation of a legal framework for the use of information modeling of buildings in construction.\n\nThe BIM Association of Slovakia, \"BIMaS\", was established in January 2013 as the first Slovakian professional organisation focused on BIM. Although there are neither standards nor legislative requirements to deliver projects in BIM, many architects, structural engineers and contractors, plus a few investors are already applying BIM. A Slovakian implementation strategy created by BIMaS and supported by the Chamber of Civil Engineers and Chamber of Architects has yet to be approved by Slovakian authorities due to their low interest in such innovation.\n\nA July 2015 meeting at Spain’s Ministry of Infrastructure [Ministerio de Fomento] launched the country’s national BIM strategy, making BIM a mandatory requirement on public sector projects with a possible starting date of 2018. Following a February 2015 BIM summit in Barcelona, professionals in Spain's autonomous community of Catalonia established a BIM commission (ITeC) to drive the adoption of BIM in the region.\n\nSince 2009 through the initiative of buildingSmart Switzerland, then 2013, BIM awareness among a broader community of engineers and architects was raised due to the open competition for Basel's Felix Platter Hospital where a BIM coordinator was sought. BIM has also been a subject of events by the Swiss Society for Engineers and Architects, SIA.\n\nIn May 2011 UK Government Chief Construction Adviser Paul Morrell called for BIM adoption on UK government construction projects. Morrell also told construction professionals to adopt BIM or be \"Betamaxed out\". In June 2011 the UK government published its BIM strategy, announcing its intention to require collaborative 3D BIM (with all project and asset information, documentation and data being electronic) on its projects by 2016. Initially, compliance will require building data to be delivered in a vendor-neutral 'COBie' format, thus overcoming the limited interoperability of BIM software suites available on the market. The UK Government BIM Task Group led the government's BIM programme and requirements, including a free-to-use set of UK standards and tools that define 'level 2 BIM'. In April 2016, the UK Government published a new central web portal as a point of reference for the industry for BIM Level 2. The BIM Task Group continues to develop BIM adoption within the government departments.\n\nOutside of government, industry adoption of BIM from 2016 has been led by the UK BIM Alliance, formed to champion and enable the implementation of BIM Level 2 by 2020, and to connect and represent organisations, groups and individuals working towards digital transformation of the UK's built environment industry. Established as an independent, not-for-profit, collaboratively-based organisation, the UK BIM Alliance's structure has been developed around an executive team and three core activity areas: engagement, programme and operations (internal support and secretariat functions).\n\nNational Building Specification (NBS), owned by the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA), publishes research into BIM adoption in the UK. There have now been six annual surveys. The April 2016 survey of 1,000 UK construction professionals revealed that BIM adoption had increased from 13% in 2010 to 54% in 2015.\n\nSeveral organizations support BIM adoption and implementation in Canada: the Canada BIM Council (CANBIM, founded in 2008), the Institute for BIM in Canada, and buildingSMART Canada (the Canadian chapter of buildingSMART International).\n\nThe Associated General Contractors of America and US contracting firms have developed various working definitions of BIM that describe it generally as:\n\nAlthough the concept of BIM and relevant processes are being explored by contractors, architects and developers alike, the term itself has been questioned and debated with alternatives including Virtual Building Environment (VBE) and virtual design and construction (VDC) also considered. Unlike some countries such as the UK, the US has not adopted a set of national BIM guidelines, allowing different systems to remain in competition.\n\nBIM is seen to be closely related to Integrated Project Delivery (IPD) where the primary motive is to bring the teams together early on in the project. A full implementation of BIM also requires the project teams to collaborate from the inception stage and formulate model sharing and ownership contract documents.\n\nThe American Institute of Architects has defined BIM as \"a model-based technology linked with a database of project information\", and this reflects the general reliance on database technology as the foundation. In the future, structured text documents such as specifications may be able to be searched and linked to regional, national, and international standards.\n\nBIM has the potential to play a vital role in the Nigerian AEC sector. In addition to its potential clarity and transparency it may help promote standardization across the industry. For instance, Utiome suggests that, in conceptualizing a BIM-based knowledge transfer framework from industrialized economies to urban construction projects in developing nations, generic BIM objects can benefit from rich building information within specification parameters in product libraries, and used for efficient, streamlined design and construction. Similarly, an assessment of the current 'state of the art' by Kori found that medium and large firms were leading the adoption of BIM in the industry. Smaller firms were less advanced with respect to process and policy adherence.\nThere is little or less adoption of BIM in the built environment due to resistive nature of construction industry to changes or new ways of doing things. Till now, Nigerian construction industry is still working with the 2D conventional CAD system in services and structural designs, although the production could be in 3D system. There is virtually 0% utilization of 4D and 5D systems.\n\nThe South African BIM Institute, established in May 2015, aims to enable technical experts to discuss digital construction solutions that can be adopted by professionals working within the construction sector. Its initial task was to promote the SA BIM Protocol.\n\nThere are no mandated or national best practice BIM standards or protocols in South Africa. Organisations implement company-specific BIM standards and protocols at best (there are isolated examples of cross-industry alliances).\n\nIn February 2016, Infrastructure Australia recommended: \"Governments should make the use of Building Information Modelling (BIM) mandatory for the design of large-scale complex infrastructure projects. In support of a mandatory rollout, the Australian Government should commission the Australasian Procurement and Construction Council, working with industry, to develop appropriate guidance around the adoption and use of BIM; and common standards and protocols to be applied when using BIM.”\n\nIn 2015, many projects in the rebuilding of Christchurch were being assembled in detail on a computer using BIM well before workers set foot on the site. The New Zealand government started a BIM acceleration committee, as part of a productivity partnership with the goal of 20 per cent more efficiency in the construction industry by 2020.\n\nBIM is a relatively new technology in an industry typically slow to adopt change. Yet many early adopters are confident that BIM will grow to play an even more crucial role in building documentation.\n\nProponents claim that BIM offers:\n\nBIM also contains most of the data needed for building performance analysis. The building properties in BIM can be used to automatically create the input file for building performance simulation and save a significant amount of time and effort. Moreover, automation of this process reduce errors and mismatches in the building performance simulation process.\n\nGreen Building XML (gbXML) is an emerging schema, a subset of the Building Information Modeling efforts, focused on green building design and operation. gbXML is used as input in several energy simulation engines. With the development of modern computer technology, a large number of building performance simulation tools are available. When choosing which simulation tool to use, the user must consider the tool's accuracy and reliability, considering the building information they have at hand, which will serve as input for the tool. Yezioro, Dong and Leite developed an artificial intelligence approach towards assessing building performance simulation results and found that more detailed simulation tools have the best simulation performance in terms of heating and cooling electricity consumption within 3% of mean absolute error.\n\nExplorations are underway to pair computer network users' personal, private and public authentication choices, geographic mapping systems and evolving cloud computing security architecture models, together, to offer customers of geospatial securitization services intuitive new ways to organize their personal, private and public applications and storage. For individuals, businesses and government authorities who generate and manage building information, new ways to discover, share and work on data, within the context of particular places on earth, will be offered. David Plager, AIA, conjectures that today's web will give way to tomorrow's geo-web where data will be structured first by place (e.g. a postal address) and then by space (Personal (one user), Private (a group of users) and Public (all users)).\n\n\nBIM will develop as building information science involving systematic theories, concepts, methods, technologies, applications and management for the digitization, visualization, quantitative analysis and decision-making of whole project life cycles in the architecture, engineering and construction (AEC) industry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4942006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4942006", "title": "Common furniture beetle", "text": "Common furniture beetle\n\nThe common furniture beetle or common house borer (\"Anobium punctatum\") is a woodboring beetle. In the larval stage it bores in wood and feeds upon it. Adult \"Anobium punctatum\" measure in length. They have brown ellipsodial bodies with a prothorax resembling a monk's cowl .\n\nAdults do not feed; they just reproduce. The female lays her eggs into cracks in wood or inside old exit holes, if available. The eggs hatch after some three weeks, each producing a long, creamy white, C-shaped larva. For three to four years the larvae bore semi-randomly through timber, following and eating the starchy part of the wood grain, and grow up to . They come nearer to the wood surface when ready to pupate. They excavate small spaces just under the wood surface and take up to eight weeks to pupate. The adults then break through the surface, making a 1 mm to exit hole and spilling dust, the first visible signs of an infestation.\n\nThe first step in pest control is prevention. Particularly important in this respect is to keep the timber dry - below 16% moisture content. A relative humidity within the building above 60% may lead to an infestation, and timber moisture content below 12% is too dry for an infection to occur. \"Anobium punctatum\" normally only attacks seasoned sapwood timber, not live or fresh wood. Also, it usually does not attack heartwood timbers. This is readily observed from infested structures, where one piece of timber may be heavily attacked but an adjacent one left virtually untouched according to whether it is made from the heartwood or the sapwood part of a tree trunk. Infestations are also usually a problem of old wooden houses built with untreated timbers. Some building regulations state that timbers with more than 25% sapwood may not be used, so that wood borer infections can not substantially weaken structures.\n\nInfection, past or present, is diagnosed by small round exit holes of 1 to 1.5 mm diameter. Active infections feature the appearance of new exit holes and fine wood dust around the holes.\n\nBecause of the 3–4 year life cycle of \"Anobium punctatum\", timber or timber products bought containing an \"A. punctatum\" infection may not manifest holes until years after the timber has been acquired. Infestation can be controlled by application of a residual insecticide (such as permethrin) to infected areas, by professional fumigation, or by replacing infected timber . Simple aerosol insecticide sprays will only kill the adult borer on the wing but not the burrowing larvae, which remain relatively protected inside infected timbers. Freezing infected timber, or heating to 50 °C for a day or more, will kill beetle larvae, but offer no residual protection.\n\n"}
{"id": "3294201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3294201", "title": "Continuing education unit", "text": "Continuing education unit\n\nA continuing education unit (CEU) or continuing education credit (CEC) is a measure used in continuing education programs to assist the professional to maintain his or her license in their profession. Continuing education or professional development is required in many fields, including teachers, insurance professionals, interior designers/interior architects, lighting designers, architects, engineers, emergency management professionals, school administrators, educators, nurses, mental health professionals, psychologists and social workers. The continuing education unit is described as ten hours of participation in an education program. \n\nThe term CEU is not a trademarked term; therefore, any educational institution may use it to describe their courses. In this regard, there are no requirements for educator qualifications that are attached to each institutions courses when offering CEUs. There have been some bodies created which are attempting to standardize and accredit institutions using the term CEU, the International Association for Continuing Education and Training being one of them; however, professions and industries usually regulate their approved continuing education within their bylaws and not one institute or accrediting body has become a standard to accept in this regard. Professionals should always consult their Association or regulating body prior to embarking on continuing education and not assume a CEU will be accepted as part of their professional development.\n\n"}
{"id": "1328549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1328549", "title": "Cooking Vinyl", "text": "Cooking Vinyl\n\nCooking Vinyl is a UK independent record company, based in Acton, London. Founded in 1986 by former manager and booking agent Martin Goldschmidt and business partner Pete Lawrence. Goldschmidt remains the current owner and chairman while Rob Collins holds the position of managing director. The company focusses on artist service based deals where the artist retains ownership of their copyrights \n\nCooking Vinyl was set up in 1986 by former manager and booking agent Martin Goldschmidt and distribution manager Pete Lawrence, who initially ran the business as a part-time venture out of a spare room in Goldschmidt's council house in Stockwell, South London.\n\nIn 1986 Cooking Vinyl recorded an impromptu live performance around a campfire at a folk festival by the singer Michelle Shocked, on a Sony Walkman with fading batteries. One of its first releases, Cooking Vinyl released the recording as The Campfire Tapes, and it sold 250,000 copies worldwide.\n\nIn 1989, the company was close to bankruptcy when their distributors, Rough Trade, went into receivership. Pete Lawrence sold his stake in the business to Martin Goldschmidt who continued the business while servicing the debt of the company of a period of five years.\n\nBesides traditional royalty agreements, Cooking Vinyl developed ‘artist services’ deals in the 1990s, where the artist retains ownership of the copyright of their recorded material. The first of these contracts was done in 1993 for the reissue of Billy Bragg's \"Back To Basics\" compilation. Since then, Bragg has re-engaged with Cooking Vinyl a total of six times, most recently in 2013 for the release of studio album \"Tooth And Nail\".\n\nCooking Vinyl has provided similar services for Alison Moyet, Black Spiders, Gary Numan, James Skelly & The Intenders, Madness, Pigeon Detectives, Reverend and The Makers, Ron Sexsmith, and The View.\n\nIn 2009, Cooking Vinyl partnered on the release of The Prodigy's fifth studio album \"Invaders Must Die\", which went on to sell 1.2 million units worldwide and was the biggest-selling independent record of the year in Europe.\n\nIn 2012, Amanda Palmer, an advocate of the DIY approach, announced that she was partnering with Cooking Vinyl in a distribution and label services deal for the European release of her studio album \"Theatre Is Evil\". The album was funded through a high-profile Kickstarter campaign that raised over $1.2 million in 30 days.\n\nAlso released in 2012 was Marilyn Manson’s \"Born Villain\" under a joint-venture partnership between Manson's own label Hell, etc. and Cooking Vinyl. The album was a global success charting at #5 in Germany, #10 in the US, and topping Billboard's Hard Rock and Independent album chart. In the UK Manson reached #14 in the Official Albums Chart and #1 in the UK Rock Albums Chart.\n\n2014 saw the return of Embrace and their self-titled album, which debuted in the charts at #5. In the same year New York rockers The Pretty Reckless reached #8, with their second studio album.\n\nIn 2015, The Prodigy released their album The Day Is My Enemy, which reached number 1 on the charts, and was certified gold in the UK\". \"\n\nIn 2016 Passenger claimed the Official UK No.1 Album with \"Young As The Morning, Old As The Sea\". This year also saw singer-songwriter Nina Nesbitt sign a global artist services deal with Cooking Vinyl.\n\nIn 2018, Lucy Spraggan, former contestant on The X Factor, signed to both Cooking Vinyl Records and Publishing on a long-term global artist services deal. \n\nCooking Vinyl has long relationships with many of its artists. The Pixies' Charles Thompson was signed in 2000 and has had 17 releases to date with the label as Frank Black and Black Francis. Since 1994, former Doll By Doll man Jackie Leven has had 23 releases, five of them in 2009.\n\nOther key artists that have released through the label include Counting Crows, Ryan Adams, Suzanne Vega, The Cult, The Charlatans, The Cranberries, Lissie, Richard Ashcroft, The Subways, Echo and the Bunnymen, Gary Numan, The Enemy, Groove Armada, The Orb, The Proclaimers, James, The Rifles, Seth Lakeman, UB40, City and Colour and The Dropkick Murphys.\n\nEssential Music & Marketing\n\nIn 2003, Vital Distribution's managing director Mike Chadwick teamed up with Cooking Vinyl’s Martin Goldschmidt to launch Essential Music & Marketing, an independent distributor and service provider.\n\nRED, the Sony Music UK artist and label services division, announced the acquisition of Essential Music and Marketing in March 2016. As part of this deal, a new company was launched, Red Essential, which is based at The Cooking Vinyl Group’s West London offices. The company is now located in Farringdon.\n\nCV America\n\nCooking Vinyl America was originally launched in 2012. In 2016 Howie Gabriel was named President. The US operation provides strategic services to the CV Group, including artist/label acquisition, marketing, distribution and business strategy. Cooking Vinyl America is based in New York City.\n\nCooking Vinyl Australia\n\nCooking Vinyl Australia was formed in September 2013. The stand-alone company is based in Melbourne and helmed by former Shock Records executives, Leigh Gruppetta and Stu Harvey, the label signs both local and international artists, and represents the Cooking Vinyl Records roster in Australia and New Zealand under license. In February 2018, Sony Music Australia acquired a portion of Cooking Vinyl Australia.\n\nCooking Vinyl Publishing\n\nCooking Vinyl Publishing was formed in 2008 and is headed by former manager and Warner/Chappell exec Ryan Farley, who joined in August 2018. The company has a diverse roster with current writers including Tom Speight, C Duncan, Vitto Meirelles, Isobel Campbell, Lucy Spraggan, 485C, 65 Days of Static and Palestinian acts DAM, 47 Soul and Le Trio Joubran. The company's catalogue includes songs by artists such as Reverend & The Makers, The Rifles, Amber Run, Roll Deep, Meursalt, Tal National, Audio Bullys, Exit Calm and The Virgin Marys. It also has co-publishing partnerships with Brighton-based Fat Cat Records and UK jazz label Edition Music.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5915707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5915707", "title": "Cultural reproduction", "text": "Cultural reproduction\n\nCultural reproduction is the transmission of existing cultural values and norms from generation to generation. Cultural reproduction refers to the mechanisms by which continuity of cultural experience is sustained across time. Cultural reproduction often results in social reproduction, or the process of transferring aspects of society (such as class) from generation to generation.\n\n\nReproduction as it is applied to culture, is the process by which aspects of culture are passed on from person to person or from society to society. There are a number of different ways in which this has happened. Historically, people have moved from different countries taking with them certain cultural norms and traditions. For centuries cultural reproduction has occurred in a profound way through a hidden agenda. Cultures transmit aspects of behavior which individuals learn in an informal way while they are out of the home. This interaction between individuals resulting in the transfer of accepted cultural norms, values, and information is accomplished through a process known as socialization.\n\nThe method through which cultural reproduction is perpetuated varies by the socializing agent's relative location, awareness, and intention to reproduce social or cultural norms. \n\nEnculturation can be described as \"a partly conscious and partly unconscious learning experience when the older generation invites, induces, and compels the younger generation to adopt traditional ways of thinking and behaving\". Although, in many ways Enculturation duplicates the norms and traditions of previous generations. The degree of similarity between the cultures of each successive generation through enculturation may vary. This concept could be demonstrated by the tendency of each successive generation to follow cultural norms such as transportation right of way. These expectations are set forth and replicated by the prior generation. There may be little if any empirical evidence supporting a choice of driving in one lane or another, yet with each new generation, the accepted norm of that individual's culture is reinforced and perpetuated. Parents and educators prove to be two of the most influential enculturating forces of cultural reproduction. \n\nComparatively, diffusion is the dispersion of cultural norms and behaviors between otherwise unrelated groups or individuals. The integration of Chinese food or French linguistics into American culture represents this concept.\n\nBourdieu's theory of cultural reproduction is concerned with the link between original class membership and ultimate class membership, and how this link is mediated by the education system.\n\nAccording to Sullivan (2001), the theory of cultural reproduction entails three fundamental propositions:\n\nThe concept of education as an agent of cultural reproduction is argued to be less directly explained by the material and a subject taught, but rather more so through what is known as the Hidden curriculum. This refers to the socialization aspect of the education process. Through this, an adolescent acquires 'appropriate attitudes and values' needed to further succeed within the confines of education. \nAn adolescent's success or failure within the formal education system is a function of both their ability to demonstrate both measures of formal educational qualifications, as well as the attainment of the aforementioned qualities acquired through socialization mechanisms. This nature of education is reproduced throughout all stages of the system; from primary to post secondary. The ability of a student to progress to each subsequent level requires mastery of the prior. One's ability to successfully complete the process of educational attainment strongly correlates to the capacity to realize adequate pay, occupational prestige, social status, etc. upon workforce participation.\n\nThere is no clear consensus as to the exact role of education within cultural reproduction; and further to what degree, if any, this system either encourages or discourages topics such as social stratification, resource inequality, and discrepancies in access to opportunities. It's believed, however, that the primary means in which education determines an individual's social status, class, values, and hierarchy, is through the distribution of cultural capital. This notion of cultural capital accumulation, and the degree to which an individual attains cultural capital, determines the individual's access to resources and opportunities. There are, however several competing ideologies and explanations that have been significantly discussed.\n\nEducation provides functional prerequisites – known as Parsonian Functionalism states that education's function is to provide individuals with the necessary values and attitudes for future work. This forms the assumption that regardless of the trade an individual participates, they will all need a similar set of social skills for their day to day interactions. From this concept, the idea of education as an Ideological state apparatus emerged. This elaborated on the prior by continuing that both family and school work together to reproduce social classes, occupational hierarchy, value orientation, and ideology.\n\nEducation mirrors capitalism – Education mirrors the capitalistic system, in that it sorts individuals, and assigns them the skills necessary to fulfill their destined occupation. An individual is provided the appropriate attitude that should be observed within the labor force. Further it establishes an \"acceptance to the reproduction of submissive attitude to the established order\" With this, education's primary role is believed to be as a method of sorting individuals rather than equally educating. Those with high levels of accumulated social capital from parents or other sources are more easily able to excel within the system of education. Thus, these individuals will continue on a track that places these them into specialized and comparatively highly prestigious occupations. In contrast, those with little social or cultural capital will maintain low levels throughout the process of education and be placed into occupations with little demand for cultural capital – significantly less specialized and prestigious occupation. With this occupational selection, both the individuals will maintain the cultural norms and social status associated with each outside of their occupations as well.\n\nWith any of the concepts, whether considering the intrinsic value of education or the externally perceived value, each unit of educational attainment requires forgone earnings to attain. Insomuch as an individual would have to sacrifice wages in order to gain an additional unit of education. Outside of forgone monetary earnings, there are also direct expenses such as tuition, supplies, books, etc. one must consider when acquiring education, as well as less direct psychic costs. With this there is an economic consideration and tradeoff an individual must consider in their further education aspirations. One who has resources and the desire to continue education has a significant comparative advantage to an individual who by comparison does not. This financial aspect of educational acquirement proves as yet another consideration in the reproductive nature of education.\n\nOne who successfully completes the process of educational attainment incurs a significant comparative advantage over a similar individual who does not. Thus the degree to which education reproduces cultural and social norms already present in the underlying society stands to prove a significant factor in the continued propagation of these established norms. With this harsh divide between individuals who do and do not complete the process of formal education, social stratification and inequality between the two groups emerges. This further confirms cultural norms and reproduces the same system upon each successive generation.\n\nThe concept of cultural reproduction was first developed by the French sociologist and cultural theorist Pierre Bourdieu in the early 1970s. Initially, Bourdieu's work was on education in a modern society. He believed that the education system was used solely to 'reproduce' the culture of the dominant class in order for the dominant class to continue to hold and release power. Bourdieu's ideas were similar to those of Louis Althusser's notion of 'Ideological State Apparatuses' which had emerged around the same time. He began to study socialization and how dominant culture and certain norms and traditions effected many social relations. \n\nOne of Pierre Bourdieu and Jean-Claude Passeron main concepts on Cultural Reproduction was in their book \"Cultural Reproduction and Social Reproduction\". Bourdieu's main focus was the structural reproduction of disadvantages and inequalities that are caused by cultural reproduction. According to Bourdieu, inequalities are recycled through the education system and other social institutions. Bourdieu believed that the prosperous and affluent societies of the west were becoming the \"cultural capital\". High social class, familiarity with the bourgeois culture and educational credentials determined one's life chances. It was biased towards those of higher social class and aided in conserving social hierarchies. This system concealed and neglected individual talent and academic meritocracy. Bourdieu demonstrated most of his known theories in his books \"The Inheritors\" and \"Reproduction in Education, Culture and Society\". Both books established him as a progenitor of \"reproduction theory\".\n\nBourdieu also pioneered many procedural frameworks and terminologies such as cultural, social, and symbolic capital, and the concepts of habitus, field, and symbolic violence. Bourdieu's work emphasized the role of practice and embodiment in social dynamics. Bourdieu's theories build upon the conjectures of Ludwig Wittgenstein, Maurice Merleau-Ponty, Edmund Husserl, Georges Canguilhem, Karl Marx, Gaston Bachelard, Max Weber, Émile Durkheim, and Norbert Elias, among others.\n\nBourdieu is best known for his theoretical principles, conceptual devices and political intentions. He theorizes that what is taught to younger generations is dependent on the varying degrees of social, economic, and cultural capital. Those cultures have gained cultural capital and are considered the dominant group among the rest. However, in order to acquire cultural capital one must undergo indiscernible learning and these cultural norms must be used in the earliest days of life.\n\nThrough cultural reproduction, only those members of the dominant culture can acquire knowledge in relation to the way it is taught from within this cultural system. Therefore, those who are not members of the dominant culture are at a disadvantage to receive cultural information, and therefore will remain at a disadvantage. Capitalist societies depend on a stratified social system, where the working class has an education suited for manual labor: leveling out such inequalities would break down the system. Therefore, schools in capitalist societies require a method of stratification, and often choose to do so in a way in which the dominant culture will not lose its hegemony. One method of maintaining this stratification is through cultural reproduction.\n\nBourdieu's sociological work was dominated by an analysis of the mechanisms of reproduction of social hierarchies. In opposition to Marxist analyses, Bourdieu criticized the primacy given to the economic factors, and stressed that the capacity of social actors to actively impose and engage their cultural productions and symbolic systems plays an essential role in the reproduction of social structures of domination. What Bourdieu called symbolic violence (the capacity to ensure that the predictability of the social order is ignored—or misrecognized as natural—and thus to ensure the legitimacy of social structures) plays an essential part in his sociological analysis.\n\n"}
{"id": "810092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=810092", "title": "Dark Side of the Moon (film)", "text": "Dark Side of the Moon (film)\n\nDark Side of the Moon is a French mockumentary by director William Karel which originally aired on Arte in 2002 with the title Opération Lune. The basic premise for the film is the theory that the television footage from the Apollo 11 Moon landing was faked and recorded in a studio by the CIA with help from director Stanley Kubrick. It features some surprising guest appearances, most notably by Donald Rumsfeld, Dr. Henry Kissinger, Alexander Haig, Vernon Walters, Buzz Aldrin and Stanley Kubrick's widow, Christiane Kubrick.\n\nThe first part tells in an apparently neutral way the inception of the NASA's lunar program, emphasizing the issues related to its funding and the necessary public support to the program. NASA regards Stanley Kubrick's \"\" as the prototype of the show that the space program needs to be in order to gain this support, leading them to design the spacesuits and vessels in a \"Hollywood\" fashion and even to hire 700 Hollywood technicians, making all of Hollywood stop working on other projects. But the outcome of Apollo 11 is disappointing: although the landing is successful, Neil Armstrong makes a fool of himself and not a single shot of the moonwalk is usable.\nThe incapability of shooting images on the moon had been anticipated by Richard Nixon and his staff who decided to fake the pictures on the moon, using the set of \"2001\" that was still available in London. Kubrick had refused, then accepted and finally directed the fake footage himself, appalled by the lack of skills of the CIA crew. The KGB soon realized that \"the whole thing was a hoax\", that Apollo 11 had indeed landed but it was physically impossible to make pictures in the lunar environment. Besides, they had found a photo showing a portrait of Kubrick lying on the false lunar soil in the studio.\nAfter the success of the fake footage, Nixon gets scared that the truth might be discovered, and in a drunken state asks CIA Colonel George Kaplan to dispose of the whole film crew. The next morning he tries to cancel the order, but it is too late: meanwhile Kaplan has gone mad, sent his killers and disappeared. The death squad goes to Vietnam where the film crew has sought refuge, but is immediately caught by the villagers: despite a perfect accent and disguise, their commanding officer was black. Nixon reacts by sending 150,000 men and a half of the 6th Fleet to find and kill the four members of the crew. They fail, and the CIA takes over and assassinates all but one of them, who takes shelter in a yeshiva in Brooklyn where he dies ten years later. Only Kubrick is spared.\nFive years after Apollo 11, Kubrick calls NASA to borrow the top-secret wide-aperture Zeiss lens he needs to make \"Barry Lyndon\". As a result, Nixon's successor decides to get rid of him as the last witness of the conspiracy. Informed of the threat to his life, Kubrick locks himself up in his home and never leaves it until his death.\nAs a conclusion, General Vernon Walters accepts to reveal the secret of Kubrick's demise, but unexpectedly dies the next evening: he has accepted to break the CIA rule of silence and anonymity.\nIt is finally revealed that this is a mockumentary as the end credits roll over a montage of blooper reels, with the main participants laughing over their lines or over their inability to remember them.\n\nWilliam Karel had just completed \"Hollywood\", a film based on lying, when he and the documentary unit of Arte had the idea of making a mockumentary, to play with the serious tonality of Arte but also for pleasure, and to make a funny film based on the idea that one must not believe everything that one is told, that witnesses can lie, archives can be tricked, and that any subject can be twisted by misleading subtitling or dubbing. They looked for a topic that would be universal and historical but not sensitive like a war. Hence the choice of the Moon landing, which had for more than 30 years been a topic of debate regarding the reality of these images. They found it was a fairly funny topic.\n\nKarel took care to avoid any conspiracist tonality. In particular, at no point is it said that Armstrong did not walk on the moon. The script just hypothesizes that the US might have wanted a contingency plan in case the first steps could not be filmed. The arguments regarding the impossibility to operate a camera on the moon were found in websites.\nSince it was impossible to know at what point of the film the spectators would start having doubts, parodic bloopers were added in the end credits to make the hoax obvious, in case someone would believe it until the end.\n\nThe film uses four main types of elements:\n\n\nThe photo showing a portrait of Kubrick on the lunar soil is the only image in which a special effect was used.\n\nIn addition to the increasingly incredible claims made as the film progresses, several factual errors of note are introduced by the narrator:\n\nMost of the fictitious witnesses are named after characters from movies directed by Stanley Kubrick or Alfred Hitchcock. \"W.A. Koenigsberg\" is named after Woody Allen, who was born \"Allan Koenigsberg\". They are listed in the credits along with the names of the actors portraying them.\n\nThe film crew member who takes shelter in a yeshiva in Brooklyn is said to be an \"acidic\" Jew. In the original French version the giveaway is more obvious: it is said that \"he didn't work any more, he checked in with the Hasidic\", (\"Il ne travaillait plus, il pointait aux Hassidiques\", which does not make sense in French but is an obvious pun between a branch of Judaism and ASSEDIC which was the French employment office at the time the film was made).\n\nThe soundtrack also includes the song \"The American Dream\" from \"Wag the Dog\" by Barry Levinson, a fiction feature about a secretly government-commissioned Hollywood production of a fake war. At one point, footage featuring the military boarding a plane is underscored by the \"right, left, right, left\" of Gunnery Sergeant Hartman (R. Lee Ermey) from Kubrick's own film, \"Full Metal Jacket\".\n\nThe most obvious giveaway appears in the closing credits with blooper reels showing the characters, real and fictitious alike, laughing over their lines or over their inability to remember them. But there is a final trick here, a \"hoax within a hoax\": the real characters are shown joking, giving the false impression that they are voluntarily part of the hoax. In fact at least one of these \"jokes\" - Kissinger saying that he would do it all over again - appears in \"Les hommes de la Maison Blanche\" where he turns out to be actually talking quite seriously about the war in Vietnam.\n\n\n\"He was great as our James Bond, getting us in and out secretly, even giving us code names,\" said Winston Lord, former president of the Council on Foreign Relations, who accompanied Mr. Kissinger to the secret talks with the Vietnamese.\n\nwhereas the paper shown in the film says:\n\nGeneral Walters' last known public appearance was on a French Television documentary in which he talked about the White House's involvement with the Apollo program in the late 1960s. Both the producer and director noted that Walters was in perfect shape.\n\nThe names of the fictitious witnesses and of the actors impersonating them appear in the end credits. Moreover, Arte (co-producer and original broadcaster of the film) accompanied the airing in France by a web site featuring a quiz in which the player was led to guess in which films the characters having those names originally appeared. The following list reproduces the correct answers of the quiz.\n\n\nArte aired the film for the first time on 16 October 2002, and a second time on 1 April 2004, followed by a debate and accompanied by a web site including an interview of William Karel and a quiz demonstrating some of the giveaways including the fake witnesses and out-of-context quotes from interviews. At the press screening before the first airing, some people who had missed the beginning left the screening room infuriated.\n\nAustralian broadcaster SBS television aired the film on 1 April 2003 as an April fools' joke, on 17 November 2008 as part of Kubrick week, and again on 27 July 2009. About ten television channels worldwide aired the film on 1 April 2004, and Channel 4 aired it in September the same year.\n\nThe producer proposed the film to the BBC, who liked it but rejected it because they perceived it as being part of an \"anti-American campaign\" in French documentaries.\n\nWhen the film was shown to a group of sociology students studying conspiracy theories, many mistakenly believed that this was a sincere and serious film. Furthermore, moon-landing hoax advocate Wayne Green cited the film as evidence for his views, apparently believing the out of context footage of Nixon staff was really about a moon landing hoax, as discussed on Jay Windley's \"clavius.org\" site defending the reality of the moon landings. Extracts ranging from a few minutes to the whole film stripped of the credits and key sequences have been posted on YouTube by conspiracy theorists as \"proof\" that, either the images on the moon are fake, or the moon landing itself never happened. Karel himself received e-mails congratulating him for \"exposing the moon landing hoax\", which amused him.\n\n\nWilliam Karel indicated that he found inspiration in Orson Welles' radio broadcast \"The War of the Worlds\", \"Capricorn One\", and the docudramas by Peter Watkins. He refers to \"Dark side of the moon\" as a \"documenteur\", a French portmanteau word meaning \"liar documentary\" (from \"documentaire\" \"documentary\" + \"menteur\" \"liar\"), after the title of a film made by Agnès Varda in 1980-1981.\n\nOther influences are the staging of well-known historical events for the camera, such as the raising of the flags at Iwo-Jima and at the Reichstag, the American landing in Somalia which was remade a couple of times for the cameras, examplifying the influence of cinema on news coverage.\n\nThe starting point of the film is the alleged loan of a unique, secret lens by NASA to Kubrick. The truly rare, but not unique and definitely not secret, Carl Zeiss Planar 50mm f/0.7 lens was designed by Zeiss in 1966, on special request for NASA for the Apollo program, and a batch of ten were made. The cinematographer of \"Barry Lyndon\", John Alcott, said that Kubrick bought three left over lenses from this batch, and had them extensively modified to make them usable on his 35 mm movie camera. Six other lenses of the batch had been sold to NASA, and the tenth one is at the German Movie Museum in Frankfurt. There is no evidence that NASA ever lent one of their own lenses to Kubrick.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32998335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32998335", "title": "Dominican Institute for Oriental Studies", "text": "Dominican Institute for Oriental Studies\n\nThe Dominican Institute for Oriental Studies or IDEO (from French: \"Institut dominicain d'études orientales\") is a basic research centre located in Cairo. Its research field covers the ten first centuries of Islam.\n\nThe Dominican Institute for Oriental Studies was founded in the early 50's, after the Second World War came to an end. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "23655352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23655352", "title": "Domus Transitoria", "text": "Domus Transitoria\n\nThe Domus Transitoria was Roman Emperor Nero's first palace destroyed by the Great Fire of Rome in 64 AD, and then replaced by his Domus Aurea (or Golden House).\nThe palace was intended to connect all of the imperial estates, which had been acquired in various ways, with the Palatine including the Horti of Maecenas and Horti Lamiani, Lolliani, etc.\n\nAccording to Suetonius (Nero 31.1):\n\"He built a palace extending all the way from the Palatine to the Esquiline, which at first he called the Domus Transitoria, but when it was burned down shortly after its completion and rebuilt, the Golden House\".\n\nA few isolated parts of the palace have been discovered but the overall plan remains unclear. \n5 metres below Hadrian's Temple of Venus and Rome a sumptuous rotunda belonging to the palace was discovered in 1828, cut through by foundations of the Domus Aurea.\n\nAnother part is thought to be on the western side of the Oppian Hill under the Baths of Trajan.\n\nThe brick walls of the palace were originally covered with marble at the bottom, while the upper parts were frescoed. A portico was in front of the domus along the south side. Almost all of the columns, floors and marble walls were removed when Trajan gave orders to build his baths (in 104 AD).\n\nInside is a big courtyard with porticos on three sides, while the fourth on the north consisted of a cryptoporticus which supported the rear embankment. At the centre of the courtyard, occupied now by a series of long wall to support the overlying trajanic baths are the remains of a fountain; on the eastern part is a large grotto that opens to the courtyard.\n\nAn elaborate nympheum was unfortunately divided in two by a wall of Trajan. Surrounded by a portico of four columns it was equipped with a cascading fountain on the bottom, whose water was conveyed into a central basin. On the walls of the grotto was a mosaic of which only few traces remain within a frame of shells. The lower part of the walls were originally covered in marble.\n\nThe decoration of the vault, 10 m high, is preserved only in part where four corner medallions and a central octagon were inserted, the latter partly preserved representing the Polyphemus scene.\n\nA large and brilliantly decorated set of rooms of the palace was also located in the central part of the Palatine Hill under the Palace of Domitian. This site was excavated in 1721 when considerable damage was done during the excavations. The lower floors contained sunken gardens, two pavilions, a nymphæum, and an art gallery. Beyond these rooms is a very large latrine, which has been wrongly thought to be the machinery chamber of a hydraulic lift, which would, it was supposed, have worked in a shaft over 35 metres (120 feet) deep found not far off.\nIn one of these rooms is a rich marble floor found under the oval fountain room of Domitian's Cenatio Iovis, and a rich nymphaeum with marble columns and bronze capitals. Today one corner of the nymphaeum has been rebuilt.\n\nThe cryptoporticus of Nero that connected the house with the nearby Domus Tiberiana was also part of the complex.\n\nMarble and other parts salvaged from the ruins later became part of the Domus Aurea, Nero's main residence.\n\nPainted ceilings with mythological scenes from the Domus Transitoria, the earliest examples of fourth style painting, perhaps by the painter Fabullus are displayed in the Palatine Antiquarium.\n"}
{"id": "5019085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5019085", "title": "Dutch linguistic influence on naval terms", "text": "Dutch linguistic influence on naval terms\n\nHistorically, many Dutch military terms have been influential and adopted as loanwords by many other languages all over the world. Although most of these words are connected to naval activities, some (such as \"forlorn hope\") relate to land warfare.\n\nSome Dutch naval terms adopted by the various languages include:\n\nOther words (in English) include:\nAnd many more.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5622814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5622814", "title": "Dutch phonology", "text": "Dutch phonology\n\nDutch phonology is similar to that of other West Germanic languages.\n\nWhile the spelling of Dutch is officially standardised by an international organisation (the Dutch Language Union), the pronunciation has no official standard and relies on a \"de facto\" standard documented in reference works such as \"The Phonetics of English and Dutch\" by Beverley Collins and Inger M. Mees, \"The Phonology of Dutch\" by Geert Booij, \"Dutch\" by Carlos Gussenhoven, \"Belgian Standard Dutch\" by Jo Verhoeven or pronunciation dictionaries such as \"\" (\"Pronunciation Dictionary\") by Josée Heemskerk and Wim Zonneveld.\n\nStandard Dutch has two main de facto pronunciation standards: Northern and Belgian. Northern Standard Dutch (henceforth Northern SD) is the most prestigious accent in the Netherlands. It is associated with high status, education and wealth. Even though its speakers seem to be concentrated in the provinces of North Holland, South Holland and Utrecht (especially in the Randstad), it cannot be considered a regional dialect. It is often impossible to tell where its speakers were born or brought up. Belgian Standard Dutch (henceforth Belgian SD) is used by the vast majority of Flemish journalists, which is why it is sometimes called \"VRT-Nederlands\" (\"VRT Dutch\"; formerly \"BRT-Nederlands\" \"BRT Dutch\"), after VRT, the national public-service broadcaster for the Flemish Region.\n\nThe following table shows the consonant phonemes of Dutch:\n\n\n\nIn many areas the final 'n' of the ending \"-en\" (originally , with a variety of meanings) is pronounced only when a word is being individually stressed; this makes \"-en\" words homophonous with otherwise identical forms ending in \"-e\" alone. The \"-n\" is dropped both word-finally and, in compound words, word-internally. This pronunciation can be morphologically sensitive and serve to distinguish words, since the \"-n\" is dropped only when it is part of the distinct ending \"-en\" and not when the word consists of an indivisible stem which happens to end in \"-en\". Thus, the \"teken\" of \"ik teken\" ('I draw') always retains its \"-n\" because it is part of an indivisible stem whereas in \"teken\" ('ticks') it is dropped because it is part of a plural ending. Such pairs (\"teken\" = 'draw'; \"teken\" = 'ticks') are therefore not homophones in dialects that drop \"-n\", despite being written identically.\n\nFinal \"-n\" is retained in the North East (Low Saxon) and the South West (East and West Flemish), where it is the schwa that disappears instead. This creates a syllabic or (after velars) syllabic sounds: \"laten\" ; \"maken\" . Some Low Saxon dialects that have uvular pronunciations of and (or one of them) also have a syllabic uvular nasal, like in \"lagen\" and/or \"lachen\" \n\nDutch devoices all obstruents at the ends of words, as is partly reflected in the spelling. The voiced \"z\" in plural \"huizen\" becomes \"huis ('house') in singular. Also, \"duiven\" becomes \"duif ('dove'). The other cases are always written with the voiced consonant, but a devoiced one is actually pronounced: the \"d\" in plural \"baarden\" is retained in singular spelling \"baard ('beard'), but the pronunciation of the latter is , and plural \"ribben\" has singular \"rib ('rib'), pronounced .\n\nBecause of assimilation, the initial of the next word is often also devoiced: \"het vee\" ('the cattle') is . The opposite may be true for other consonants: \"ik ben\" ('I am') .\n\nDutch has an extensive vowel inventory consisting of thirteen plain vowels and at least three diphthongs. Vowels can be grouped as front unrounded, front rounded, central and back. They are also traditionally distinguished by length or tenseness. The vowels are included in one of the diphthong charts further below because Northern SD realizes them as diphthongs, but they behave phonologically like the other long monophthongs.\n\n\nThe following sections describe the phonetic quality of Dutch monophthongs in detail.\n\n\nWord-final are raised and end in a voiceless vowel: . The voiceless vowel in the first sequence may sound almost like a palatal fricative .\n\nRegardless of the exact accent, are mandatorily lengthened to before in the same word. In Northern SD and in Randstad, these are laxed to and often have a schwa-like off-glide (). This means that before , are less strongly differentiated from in Northern SD and Randstad than is usually the case in other regional varieties of SD and in Belgian SD. There is one exception to the lengthening rule: when is followed by a consonant different than and , remain short. Examples of that are words such as \"wierp\" , \"stierf\" , \"zwierf\" , \"bedierf\" , \"kirsch\" and \"Atatürk\" . The rule is also suppressed syllable-finally in certain compounds; compare \"roux-room\" with \"roerroom\" and \"Ruhr-Ohm\" .\n\n\n are typically somewhat lengthened and centralized before in Northern SD and Randstad, usually with a slight schwa-like offglide: . In addition, in this position is somewhat less rounded () than the main allophone of .\n\nThe free vowels are realized as monophthongs in Belgian SD (Jo Verhoeven describes the Belgian SD realization of as mid central ) and in many regional accents. In Northern SD, narrow closing diphthongs are used. The starting point of is centralized back (), and the starting point of has been described as front by Collins and Mees and as centralized front by Gussenhoven. The monophthongal counterparts of are peripheral; the former is almost as front as cardinal , whereas the latter is almost as back as cardinal . Many speakers of Randstad Dutch as well as younger speakers of Northern SD realize as rather wide diphthongs of the type, which may be mistaken for the phonemic diphthongs by speakers of other accents. Using for goes hand in hand with lowering the first elements of to , a phenomenon termed \"Polder Dutch\". Therefore, the phonemic contrast between and is still strongly maintained, but its phonetic realization is very different from what one can typically hear in traditional Northern SD. In Rotterdam and The Hague, the starting point of can be fronted to instead of being lowered to .\n\nIn Northern SD and in Randstad, lose their closing glides and are raised and slightly centralized to (often with a schwa-like off-glide ) before in the same word. The first two allophones strongly resemble the lax monophthongs . Dutch children frequently misspell the word \"weer\" ('again') as \"wir\". These sounds may also occur in regional varieties of SD and in Belgian SD, but they are more typically the same as the main allophones of (that is, ). An exception to the centralizing rule are syllable-final in compounds such as \"zeereis\" ('sea voyage'), \"milieuramp\" ('environmental disaster') and \"bureauredactrice\" ('desk editor (f.)').\n\nIn Northern SD, are mid-centralized before the pharyngealized allophone of .\n\nSeveral non-standard dialects have retained the distinction between the so-called \"sharp-long\" and \"soft-long\" \"e\" and \"o\", a distinction that dates to early Middle Dutch. The sharp-long varieties originate from the Old Dutch long \"ē\" and \"ō\" (Proto-Germanic \"ai\" and \"au\"), while the soft-long varieties arose from short \"i\"/\"e\" and \"u\"/\"o\" that were lengthened in open syllables in early Middle Dutch. The distinction is not considered to be a part of Standard Dutch and is not recognised in educational materials, but it is still present in many local varieties, such as Antwerpian, Limburgish, West Flemish and Zealandic. In these varieties, the sharp-long vowels are often opening diphthongs such as , while the soft-long vowels are either plain monophthongs or slightly closing .\n\nIn Northern SD and some other accents, are realised so that the former is a back vowel , whereas the latter is central or front . In Belgian SD is also central or front, but may be central instead of back , so it may have the same backness as .\n\nOther accents may have different realisations:\n\nBefore , is typically a slight centering diphthong with a centralized first element () in Northern SD and in Randstad.\n\nDutch also has several diphthongs, but only three of them are indisputably phonemic. All of them end in a non-syllabic close vowel (henceforth written for simplicity), but they may begin with a variety of other vowels.\n\n\nApart from which occur only in Northern SD and regional Netherlands SD, all varieties of SD have phonetic diphthongs . Phonemically, they are considered to be sequences of by Geert Booij and as monosyllabic sequences by Beverley Collins and Inger Mees (they do not comment on and ). This article adopts the former analysis.\n\nIn Northern SD, the second elements of can be labiodental . This is especially common in intervocalic positions.\n\nIn Northern SD and regional Netherlands SD, the close-mid elements of may be subject to the same kind of diphthongization as , so they may be actually triphthongs with two closing elements ( can instead be , a closing diphthong followed by ). In Rotterdam, can be phonetically , with a central starting point.\n\nThe ending points of these diphthongs are typically somewhat more central () than cardinal . They tend to be higher than the ending points of the phonemic diphthongs .\n\nMost native Germanic words (the bulk of the core vocabulary) are stressed on the root syllable, which is usually the first syllable of the word. Germanic words may also be stressed on the second or later syllable if certain unstressed prefixes are added (particularly in verbs). Non-root stress is common in loanwords, which are generally borrowed with the stress placement unchanged. In polysyllabic words, secondary stress may also be present. Certain prefixes and suffixes will receive secondary stress: , . The stressed syllable of a word receive secondary stress within a compound word: , .\n\nThe vast majority of compound nouns are stressed on the first element: appeltaart\" , luidspreker\" .\nWhile stress is phonemic, minimal pairs are rare, and marking the stress in written Dutch is always optional, but it is sometimes recommended to distinguish homographs that differ only in stress. While it is common practice to distinguish \"een\" (indefinite article) from \"één\" (the cardinal number one), this distinction is not so much about stress as it is about the pronunciation of the vowel ( versus ), and while the former is always unstressed, the latter may or may not be stressed. Stress also distinguishes some verbs, as stress placement on prefixes also carries a grammatical distinction, such as in \"vóórkomen\" ('to occur') and \"voorkómen\" ('to prevent'). In \"vóórkomen\" and other verbs with a stressed prefix, the prefix is separable and separates as \"kom voor\" in the first-person singular present, with the past participle \"vóórgekomen\". On the other hand, verbs with an unstressed prefix are not separable: \"voorkómen\" becomes \"voorkóm\" in the first-person singular present, and \"voorkómen\" in the past participle, without the past participle prefix \"ge-\".\n\nDutch has a strong stress accent like other Germanic languages, and it uses stress timing because of its relatively complex syllable structure. It has a preference for trochaic rhythm, with relatively stronger and weaker stress alternating between syllables in such a way that syllables with stronger stress are produced at a more or less constant pace. Generally, every alternate syllable before and after the primary stress will receive relative stress, as far secondary stress placements allow: Wá.gə.nì.ngən. Relative stress preferably does not fall on so syllables containing may disrupt the trochaic rhythm. To restore the pattern, vowels are often syncopated in speech: kín.də.rən > , há.ri.ngən > , vər.gə.líj.king > . In words for which the secondary stress is imposed lexically onto the syllable immediately following the stressed syllable, a short pause is often inserted after the stressed syllable to maintain the rhythm to ensure that the stressed syllable has more or less equal length to the trochaic unit following it: bóm..mèl.ding, wéér..lò.zə.\n\nHistorically, the stress accent has reduced most vowels in unstressed syllables to , as in most other Germanic languages. This process is still somewhat productive, and it is common to reduce vowels to in syllables carrying neither primary nor secondary stress, particularly in syllables that are relatively weakly stressed due to the trochaic rhythm. Weakly stressed long vowels may also be shortened without any significant reduction in vowel quality. For example, \"politie\" (phonemically ) may be pronounced , or even .\n\nThe syllable structure of Dutch is (C)(C)(C)V(C)(C)(C)(C). Many words, as in English, begin with three consonants such as \" straat\" (street). Words that end in four consonants are mostly superlative adjectives.\n\nDutch (with the exception of the Limburg dialects) did not participate in the second Germanic consonant shift except for the last stage:\nDutch has preserved the fricative variety of Proto-Germanic as or , in contrast with some dialects of German, which generalised the stop , and English, which lost the fricative variety through regular sound changes.\n\nDutch also underwent a few changes on its own:\n\nThe sample text is a reading of the first sentence of \"The North Wind and the Sun\".\n\nThe phonetic transcription illustrates a Western Netherlandic, educated, middle-generation speech and a careful colloquial style.\n\nDe noordenwind en de zon hadden een discussie over de vraag wie van hun tweeën de sterkste was, toen er juist iemand voorbijkwam die een dikke, warme jas aanhad.\n\nThe phonetic transcription illustrates the speech of \"a highly educated 45-year-old male who speaks Belgian Dutch with a very slight regional Limburg accent.\" Sentence stress is not transcribed.\n\nDe noordenwind en de zon waren ruzie aan het maken over wie het sterkste was toen er een reiziger voorbij kwam met een warme jas aan.\n\n"}
{"id": "16113082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16113082", "title": "Eight Men Speak", "text": "Eight Men Speak\n\nEight Men Speak is a Canadian play written in 1933 by a committee of Oscar Ryan, E. Cecil-Smith, Frank Love and Mildred Goldberg. Although the play made only one performance in its initial run, the attempts by the authorities to suppress it backfired into a political embarrassment for the Canadian government and Prime Minister R. B. Bennett. \n\nThe agit-prop play told the story of Tim Buck and his arrest as a Communist under Section 98 of the Criminal Code that made simple association with an organization advocating violent overthrow of the government a crime. However, such accusations were often made without regard to the organizations' actual intentions, effectively allowing the federal government to claim that any powerful group which potentially opposed them to be labelled as 'subversive'. Furthermore, it details the apparent assassination attempt on Buck during a prison riot when shots were fired into his cell despite the fact he was not participating in the riot in any way.\n\nThe play is most noted for the reaction of the local authorities following the play's one performance at Toronto's Standard Theatre on December 4, 1933. The police ordered the play closed and threatened to revoke the theatre's licence if the play was performed again. A theatre in Winnipeg had its licence revoked to pre-empt the play being performed there.\n\nWhen the Progressive Arts Club had a meeting to protest this censorship, a former minister, A. E. Smith, described the play and its allegations of the attempted assassination of the Communist leader. As a result, Smith was indicted for sedition, but the resulting trial allowed Buck to take the stand and relate the events of the incident in open court. Smith was acquitted, and Buck and his comrades were soon released afterward.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2455462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2455462", "title": "Ero guro", "text": "Ero guro\n\nThe term itself is an example of \"wasei-eigo\", a Japanese combination of English words or abbreviated words: \"ero\" from \"ero(tic)\", \"guro\" from \"gro(tesque)\", and \"nansensu\" from \"nonsense\". \nIn actuality the \"grotesqueness\" implied in the term refers to things that are malformed, unnatural, or horrific. Items that are pornographic and bloody are not necessarily \"ero guro\", and vice versa. The term is often used incorrectly by western audiences to mean \"gore\"—depictions of horror, blood, and guts.\n\nEro guro nansensu, characterized as a \"prewar, bourgeois cultural phenomenon that devoted itself to explorations of the deviant, the bizarre, and the ridiculous,\" manifested in the popular culture of Taishō Tokyo during the 1920s. Writer Ian Buruma describes the social atmosphere of the time as \"a skittish, sometimes nihilistic hedonism that brings Weimar Berlin to mind.\" Its roots go back to artists such as Tsukioka Yoshitoshi, who, besides erotic shunga, also produced woodblock prints showing decapitations and acts of violence from Japanese history. Ukiyo-e artists such as Utagawa Kuniyoshi presented similar themes with bondage, rape and erotic crucifixion.\n\nEro guro's first distinct appearance began in 1920s and 1930s Japanese literature. The Sada Abe Incident of 1936, where a woman strangled her lover to death and castrated his corpse, struck a chord with the ero guro movement and came to represent that genre for years to come. Other like activities and movements were generally suppressed in Japan during World War II, but re-emerged in the postwar period, especially in manga and music.\n\nOver time, the ero guro movement's influence expanded into parts of Japanese theatre, art, manga, and eventually into film and music.\n\nEro guro is also an element of many Japanese horror films and \"pinku eiga\", particularly of the 1960s and 1970s. Examples include Teruo Ishii's \"Shogun's Joys of Torture\" (1968) and \"Horrors of Malformed Men\" (1969) and Yasuzo Masumura's \"Blind Beast\" (1969), the latter two based on the works of Edogawa Rampo. A more recent example of ero guro in cinema is Sion Sono's \"Strange Circus\" (2005).\n\nThere are modern guro artists, some of whom cite Erotic Grotesque Nonsense as an influence on their work. These artists explore the macabre intermingled with sexual overtones. Often the erotic element, even when not explicit, is merged with grotesque themes and features similar to the works of H. R. Giger. Others produce ero guro as a genre of Japanese pornography and hentai involving blood, gore, disfiguration, violence, mutilation, urine, enemas, or feces.\n\nWell-known guro manga artists include Suehiro Maruo, Hajime Yamano, Jun Hayami, Go Nagai, Shintaro Kago, Toshio Maeda, Henmaru Machino, Yamamoto Takato, Horihone Saizō, and Waita Uziga.\n\nThe modern genre of tentacle rape began within the category of ero guro (although it has much older roots in Japanese art; see \"Octopi and shell diver\") but became so popular that it is now usually considered separately.\n\nSome visual kei bands have a concept or theme relating to ero guro, most notably Cali Gari. Western visual kei fans assumed their theme was a subgenre of visual kei and linked it with other similar bands.\n\nThe 2014 Flying Lotus album \"You're Dead!\" prominently featured ero guro artwork from Japanese manga artist Shintaro Kago on the cover and inner sleeve, with further art being utilised in the accompanying live show. Much of the drawings featured men and women being disfigured and mutilated in unrealistic, hi-tech ways with a significant amount of gore and nudity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5044648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5044648", "title": "Filler (linguistics)", "text": "Filler (linguistics)\n\nIn linguistics, a filler is a sound or word that is spoken in conversation by one participant to signal to others a pause to think without giving the impression of having finished speaking. (These are not to be confused with placeholder names, such as \"thingamajig\", \"whatchamacallit\", \"whosawhatsa\" and \"whats'isface\", which refer to objects or people whose names are temporarily forgotten, irrelevant, or unknown.) Fillers fall into the category of formulaic language, and different languages have different characteristic filler sounds. The term filler also has a separate use in the syntactic description of wh-movement constructions.\n\nIn English, the most common filler sounds are \"ah\" or \"uh\" , \"er\" , and \"um\" . Among younger speakers, the fillers \"like\", \"you know\", \"I mean\", \"okay\", \"so\", \"actually\", \"basically\", and \"right\" are among the more prevalent. The use of the Valleyspeak word \"like\" as a discourse marker or vocalized pause is a particularly prominent example of the \"Californianization of American youth-speak,\" and its further recent spread throughout other English dialects via the mass-media.\n\nSince the advent of computers, especially streaming video, there has been comparison of filler words to \"Buffer words.\" Buffering, the pause that is experienced while information is retrieved and/or compiled for presentation as a whole, does closely model the cognitive process that accompanies most filler word usage. Similarly, as the increased frequency or duration of buffering in computers indicates data processing deficiencies in a device,the overuse or dependency upon buffering in speech indicate possible cognitive impairment from lack of information, preparation, regard, or confidence, etc. However, in many cases, buffer words, particularly \"like,' \"you know,\" and their ilk, have become parlance in casual conversation, suggesting an imprecise statement that invites the listener to \"fill in the gaps\" and either acknowledge, confirm, or amend the statement, thus completing the transaction.\n\n\nAmong language learners, a common pitfall is using fillers from their native tongue. For example, \" umm... \". While less of a shibboleth, knowing the placeholder names (sometimes called kadigans) of a language (e.g. the equivalent of \"thingy\") can also be useful to attain fluency, such as the French : \"\" (\"I'm looking for the thingy that you use to open up a can\").\n\nThe linguistic term \"filler\" has another, unrelated use in syntactic terminology. It refers to the pre-posed element that fills in the \"gap\" in a wh-movement construction. Wh-movement is said to create a long-distance or unbounded \"filler-gap dependency\". In the following example, there is an object gap associated with the transitive verb \"saw\", and the filler is the wh-phrase \"how many angels\": \"I don't care [how many angels] she told you she saw.\"\n\n\n10. ^ Roseann Duenas Gonzalez et.al. Fundamentals of Court Interpretation , Theory, Policy and Practice, Carolina Academic Press 1991, p291 \"Non-Conservation of Paralinguistic Elements, Hedges, Fillers.\n\n"}
{"id": "55839718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55839718", "title": "Florence Hartley", "text": "Florence Hartley\n\nFlorence Hartley was a Victorian-era writer whose work was meant for women of the era, covering topics of etiquette and needlework. She was also an advocate for women's health.\n\nFlorence Hartley never married. Little else is known about her life, and the place and date of her birth and death are unknown.\n\nRhetoric theorist Jane Donawerth identifies Hartley's \"The Ladies’ Book of Etiquette\" as part of a distinctive self-consciously feminine discursive tradition of conduct book rhetoric, developed in the 18th and 19th centuries. Donawerth sees Hartley's work as marking the conservative end of the spectrum of works within this tradition, merging the conduct book tradition with the narrower tradition of the etiquette manual. Hartley sees good elocution as natural, not as an art, and avoids the use of the \"word\" \"elocution\"; she discourages women from speaking in such a way as to draw attention to themselves, or asking professional men (such as physicians, attorneys, artists, merchants, or mechanics) about the subject matter of their work. Hartley admonishes women never to phrase what they say as assertions of fact, only as declarations of their own opinions. She argues for women's education principally on the ground that it enables women to be better companions. Donawerth characterizes Hartley's etiquette as grounded in a profoundly conservative worldview based on wealth and social class. Hartley herself sees her etiquette as a logical extension of Christian ethics, specifically, the Golden Rule.\n\nHartley's approach to etiquette strongly emphasized its role in hospitality. Of the 26 chapters in \"The Ladies’ Book of Etiquette\", ten are devoted to the etiquette of the roles of guest or hostess. Hartley also placed great emphasis on the etiquette of letter writing.\n\nDuring Hartley's time, her work received favorable reviews, such as this one referring to \"The Ladies’ Book of Etiquette, and Manual of Politeness\":\n\nPresent-day reception of Hartley's work has been mixed. Journalist Tanya Sweeney describes \"The Ladies’ Book of Etiquette\" as the \"definitive tome\" of 19th-century etiquette. According to journalist Jessica Leigh Hester, Hartley's 19th-century etiquette advice can still be instructive in the 21st century, particularly in regard to RSVPs, tasteful dress, avoidance of gossip in places where it can easily be overheard, and loud amateur music at parties. On the other hand, food and travel writer Anna Brones ridicules Hartley's dictum that a good hostess should not discuss, or even notice, what her guests are eating. Historian C. Dallett Hemphill sees Hartley's conservative approach to etiquette as having \"nativist or racist roots\".\n\nDonawerth notes that Hartley never acknowledges the etiquette writers before her. When Hartley tells readers that\n\nshe is directly quoting Eliza Ware Farrar's \"The Young Lady's Friend\" without credit.\n\nHartley's \"Ladies’ Hand Book of Fancy and Ornamental Work\" offered instruction in a wide variety of types of needlework, including sewing, knitting, and quilting. Just as with etiquette, Hartley saw skill in needlework as essential to a lady's education, with implications for her overall happiness and for her usefulness to, and acceptance within, society.\n\nHartley was an advocate of more healthful practices for women, and a critic of social customs that she saw as jeopardizing women's health. Despite the conservatism of her general approach to etiquette, Hartley denounced the corset, which some other early women writers on etiquette defended. She saw young women of her day as less healthy than their mothers and grandmothers. Hartley warned young women against the practice of staying late at dance balls, so that they would not be utterly exhausted when they left, and would not miss breakfast the next morning. She advocated walking 4–5 miles per day for vigorous young women, as an alternative to dancing in overheated ballrooms.\n\n"}
{"id": "14456197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14456197", "title": "God Is Dead (novel)", "text": "God Is Dead (novel)\n\nGod is Dead (2007) is the debut novel of American author Ron Currie Jr. \n\nThe book is a collection of related shorter stories about a world where God has come to earth and died.\n\nThe book begins in Sudan, where God, disguised as a Dinka woman, attempts to help out around a refugee camp. She speaks with the American diplomats visiting the camp, including former Secretary of State Colin Powell, about finding the missing brother of the body she inhabits. While she is there, the camp is attacked by the Sudanese government, killing everyone, including God.\nThe rest of the book focuses on how things unravel after God's death. A high school graduate watches in horror as a priest commits suicide. Soon after, a group of childhood friends form a suicide pact after all their relatives die in the chaos. People later begin to worship their children in the absence of religion, while the psychiatrists tasked to disrupt such unproductive behavior are the most hated people alive. The dogs who ate God's corpse are revealed to possess a higher knowledge, but this brings only death to all but one of them. The book closes with a view into war in this Godless world, where religious wars have been replaced by ideological wars between supporters of evolutionary psychology versus postmodernism.\n\nIn \"The Believer\". Andrew Ervin called \"God is Dead\" \"an extraordinary book.\" Ervin described the chapter \"My Brother the Murderer\" as \"beautiful and profound,\" the book's \"obvious highlight.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "197638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=197638", "title": "Grand Slam (tennis)", "text": "Grand Slam (tennis)\n\nThe Grand Slam tournaments, also called majors, are the four most important annual tennis events. They offer the most ranking points, prize money, public and media attention, the greatest strength and size of field, and greater number of \"best of\" sets for men. The Grand Slam itinerary consists of the Australian Open in mid January, the French Open around late May through early June, Wimbledon in June-July, and the US Open in August-September. Each tournament is played over a period of two weeks. The Australian and United States tournaments are played on hard courts, the French on clay, and Wimbledon on grass. Wimbledon is the oldest, founded in 1877, followed by the US in 1881, the French in 1891, and the Australian in 1905. However, of these four, only Wimbledon was a major before 1924–25, when all four became designated Grand Slam tournaments. Skipping majors—especially the Australian Open because of the remoteness, the inconvenient dates (around Christmas and New Year's Day) and the low prize money—was not unusual before 1982.\n\nGrand Slam tournaments are not operated by the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) or the Women's Tennis Association (WTA), but by the International Tennis Federation (ITF). However, the ATP and WTA do award ranking points based on a player's performance at a major.\n\nThe term \"Grand Slam\", without qualification, and also originally, refers to the achievement of winning all four major championships within a single calendar year within one of the five events: men's and women's singles; men's, women's, and mixed doubles. In doubles, one team may accomplish a Grand Slam playing together or one player may achieve it with different partners.\n\nWinning the four majors in consecutive tournaments but not in the same year is known as a Non-Calendar Year Grand Slam, while winning all four majors at any point during the course of a career is known as a Career Grand Slam. Winning the gold medal at the Summer Olympic Games in addition to the four majors in one calendar year is known as a \"Golden Grand Slam\" or more commonly the \"Golden Slam\". Also, winning the Year-End Championship (known as ATP Finals for men's singles and doubles disciplines, and WTA Finals for both women's disciplines) in the same period is known as a \"Super Slam\". Together, all four majors in all three disciplines (singles, doubles, and mixed doubles) are called a \"boxed set\" of Grand Slam titles. No male or female player has won all twelve events in one calendar year, although a \"career boxed set\" has been achieved by three female players.\n\nThe term \"slam\" for winning all of the tricks in the (see also whist terms) is attested from early in the 17th century. \"Grand slam\" for all of the tricks, in contrast to \"small slam\" or \"little slam\" for all but one, dates from early in the 19th century. This use was inherited by contract bridge, a modern development of whist defined in 1925 that became very popular in Britain and America by 1930.\n\n\"Grand slam\" has been used in golf since 1930, when Bobby Jones won the four major championships, two British and two American tournaments. Although John F. Kieran of \"The New York Times\" is widely credited with first applying the term \"grand slam\" to tennis to describe the winning of all four major tennis tournaments in a calendar year, sports columnist Alan Gould had used the term in that connection almost two months before Kieran.\n\nThe possibility of being the reigning champion of all the current four majors did not exist until 1924–25, when the International Lawn Tennis Federation designated the Australasian, French (before 1925 only open to members of French tennis clubs), British and American championship tournaments as the four majors. Before that time only three events: Wimbledon, the World Hard Court Championships (held in Paris & once in Brussels) and the World Covered Court Championships (held in various locations) were considered the premier international tennis events by the ILTF. Tony Wilding of New Zealand won all three of those earlier majors in one year: 1913. It has been possible to complete a Grand Slam in most years and most disciplines since 1925. It was not possible from 1940 to 1945 because of interruptions at Wimbledon, the Australian and French opens due to the Second World War, the years from 1970 to 1985 when there was no Australian tournament in mixed doubles, and 1986 when there was no Australian Open at all.\n\nPhil Dent has pointed out that skipping majors—especially the Australian Open—was not unusual then, before counting major titles became the norm. Thus, many players had never played the Austral(as)ian amateur or open championships: the Doherty brothers, William Larned, Maurice McLoughlin, Beals Wright, Bill Johnston, Bill Tilden, René Lacoste, Henri Cochet, Bobby Riggs, Jack Kramer, Ted Schroeder, Pancho Gonzales, Budge Patty, Manuel Santana, Jan Kodeš and others, while Brookes, Ellsworth Vines, Jaroslav Drobný, Manuel Orantes, Ilie Năstase (at 35 years old) and Björn Borg came just once. Beginning in 1969, when the first Australian Open was held on the Milton Courts at Brisbane, the tournament was open to all players, including professionals, who at that point were prohibited from playing the traditional circuit. Nevertheless, except for the 1969 and 1971 tournaments, many of the best players missed this championship until 1982, because of the remoteness, the inconvenient dates (around Christmas and New Year's Day) and the low prize money. In 1970, George MacCall's National Tennis League, which employed Rod Laver, Ken Rosewall, Andrés Gimeno, Pancho Gonzales, Roy Emerson and Fred Stolle, prevented its players from entering the tournament because the guarantees were insufficient. The tournament was won by Arthur Ashe.\n\nIn terms of the current four majors, the first to win all four in a single year was Don Budge, who completed the feat in 1938. To date, 17 players have completed a Grand Slam, though only six in the most prestigious singles titles. Of these players, three have won multiple majors: Rod Laver accomplished the feat twice in men's singles; Margaret Court accomplished the feat three times, in two different disciplines – once in women's singles and twice in mixed doubles; and Esther Vergeer completed a grand slam twice in Women's wheelchair doubles.\n\nThe four Junior disciplines, boys' and girls' singles and doubles, provide limited opportunities to achieve a Grand Slam. Players are only eligible from age 13 to 18, with 18-year-olds likely to hold a physical advantage. Only Stefan Edberg has completed the Grand Slam in a Junior discipline.\n\n\n\nIn 1982, the International Tennis Federation (ITF) began offering a $1 million bonus to any singles player to win four consecutive major titles, no matter the time of completion. Although groups variously identified as the Men's International Professional Tennis Council, \"abetted primarily by some British tennis writers\", and \"European tennis journalists\" had advocated for the ITF to change the definition of \"Grand Slam\", ITF General Secretary David Gray made it clear that this was not going to happen. In a 1983 letter to tennis journalist Paul Fein, Gray clarified: \nThe ITF's plan was to offer the cash bonus for three years, apparently to encourage players to compete in all four major tournaments as much as to reward success at them.\n\nEven before the ITF had announced their bonus, the Grand Slam controversy had taken on a life of its own. Writing in 1982, Neil Amdur claimed, \"Now the sport spins nervously under the influence of big dollars and even bigger egos, and tradition has almost gone the way of white balls and long flannels [...] If the four major tournaments want to offer a $1 million incentive for any player in the future who can sweep their titles—and such talks have been rumored—that bonus would be a welcome addition. But changing what the Grand Slam is all about is like a baseball player believing that he 'hit for the cycle' after slugging a single, double and triple in the first game of a doubleheader and a home run in his first time at bat in the second game.\" Despite seeming clarity from the ITF, some journalists suggested that the sport's organizing body had turned its back on history and changed the \"rules\" of tennis by redefining a Grand Slam. Such confusion continued for years. For instance, when Steffi Graf completed the Grand Slam in 1988, George Vecsey wrote, \"Even the International Tennis Federation, which should have more respect for history, ruled in 1982 that winning any four straight majors constituted a Grand Slam—and offered a $1 million bonus for it [...] But many tennis people, and most writers, and probably most fans, too, did not accept the new rules, and the I.T.F. has dropped the gimmick.\" Vecsey was only half right: the ITF dropped the \"gimmick\" of the cash bonus, but it had never changed any rules.\n\nHowever, the ambiguous way the ITF described the Grand Slam in their Constitution led to journalists continuing to make the same assumption as Vecsey over two decades later. For instance, when Rafael Nadal was on the verge of completing a non-calendar year Grand Slam at the 2011 Australian Open, one writer observed, \"Most traditionalists insist that the 'Grand Slam' should refer only to winning all four titles in a calendar year, although the constitution of the International Tennis Federation, the sports governing body, spells out that 'players who hold all four of these titles at the same time achieve the Grand Slam'.\" This was true until later in 2011, when the ITF edited the description to eliminate all confusion. As it now stands, \"The Grand Slam titles are the championships of Australia, France, the United States of America and Wimbledon. Players who hold all four of these titles in one calendar year achieve the 'Grand Slam'.\"\n\nWhen Martina Navratilova won the 1984 French Open and became the reigning champion of all four women's singles events, she was the first player to receive the bonus prize in recognition of her achievement. Some media outlets did, indeed, say that she had won a Grand Slam. Others simply noted the ongoing controversy: \"Whether the Slam was Grand or Bland or a commercial sham tainted with an asterisk the size of a tennis ball, Martina Navratilova finally did it.\" Although the ITF recognizes what is now unofficially known as the \"non-calendar year Grand Slam\" on its Roll of Honour, no subsequent player to win four or more majors in a row—Steffi Graf, Serena Williams, or Novak Djokovic—has received bonus prize money.\n\nCombining \"the\" Grand Slam and non-calendar year Grand Slam, the total number of times that players achieved the feat (of being the reigning champion in all four majors) expands to 18.\n\nThree women have won four or more consecutive major titles since 1970, with Navratilova taking six in a row in 1983–1984. On the men's side, Novak Djokovic was the first singles player since Rod Laver to hold all four major titles at once, which he accomplished between Wimbledon 2015 and the 2016 French Open. Prior to the Open Era, Don Budge received the same accolades in winning the French Championships in 1938, but then completed the more prestigious Grand Slam at the 1938 US Championships, giving him six majors in a row, the only male to ever win more than four consecutive major tournaments.\n\nThe Bryan brothers (Bob and Mike) were the last to achieve a non-calendar year Grand Slam in men's doubles. Several players and teams came up one title short. Todd Woodbridge and Mark Woodforde, known collectively as The Woodies, reached the final of the 1997 French Open while holding all the other three titles, but lost to Yevgeny Kafelnikov and Daniel Vacek. In singles, Pete Sampras lost the 1994 French Open quarterfinal to fellow countryman Jim Courier, having won the previous three majors. Roger Federer in 2006 and 2007, and Novak Djokovic in 2012 repeated this, both ultimately losing the French Open final to Rafael Nadal. Nadal himself was prevented from achieving this feat by his countryman David Ferrer, who defeated him in the quarterfinal of the 2011 Australian Open, which Nadal entered holding the other three major titles. In women's singles, Monica Seles lost the 1992 Wimbledon final to Steffi Graf, having won the previous three majors. Martina Hingis had a chance to achieve the feat in the 1998, but lost to Seles in the French Open semifinal. In women's doubles, Virginia Ruano Pascual and Paola Suárez had won three majors from US Open 2003 to the 2004 French Open, lost at the semifinals to Cara Black and Rennae Stubbs in the 2004 Wimbledon, and Sania Mirza together with Hingis had won from Wimbledon 2015 to the 2016 Australian Open, but lost in the third round of the 2016 French Open to Barbora Krejčíková and Kateřina Siniaková. In 2017, Bethanie Mattek-Sands and Lucie Šafářová had the chance to win four consecutive titles at Wimbledon, but withdrew from their scheduled second round match following an acute knee injury suffered by Mattek-Sands in the second round of the Ladies' Singles competition.\n\nThe following list is for those players who achieved a non-calendar Grand Slam by winning 4 or more consecutive titles, but who failed to win the Grand Slam during the same streak.\n\nThe career achievement of all four major championships in one format is termed a \"Career Grand Slam\" in that format. Dozens of players have accomplished that (column two) and 17 have doubled it: won a second championship in each of the four majors in one format (column three). Two or more career championships in all four majors is sometimes called a \"Multiple Slam Set\". Three players have Multiple Slam Sets in two formats, one in three formats, so 22 players are counted in the table (column three). Their achievements are tabulated below.\n\nEight men and ten women have won Career Grand Slams in singles play (rows one and two); among them two men and five women have at least two Career Grand Slams in singles (column three). Since the beginning of the open era, five men (Rod Laver, Andre Agassi, Roger Federer, Rafael Nadal, Novak Djokovic) and six women (Margaret Court, Chris Evert, Martina Navratilova, Steffi Graf, Serena Williams and Maria Sharapova) have achieved this.\n\nSeveral singles players have won three major championships without achieving the Career Grand Slam, grouped by the \"missing\" Grand Slam tournament:\n\n\nSeveral doubles players have won three major championships without achieving the Career Grand Slam:\n\n\nOnly six players have completed a Career Grand Slam in both singles and doubles: one male (Roy Emerson) and five female (Margaret Court, Doris Hart, Shirley Fry Irvin, Martina Navratilova, and Serena Williams). Court, Hart and Navratilova are the only three players to have completed a \"Career Boxed Set\", winning all four titles in singles, doubles, and mixed doubles; this has never been done by a male player.\n\nThe remainder of this section is a complete list, by format, of all players who have won the Career Grand Slam. Players are ordered chronologically by their completion of the Career Grand Slam. The major tournament at which the Career Grand Slam was achieved is indicated in bold.\n\nEight men have won all four grand slam tournaments. Two of the eight men achieved a double career Slam. Originally, the grand slams were held on grass (Australian, Wimbledon, and US Open) and clay (French) and the first four players achieved their grand slams on two surfaces. The US Open changed its surface from grass to clay in 1975 and then to hard court in 1978. The Australian Open changed from grass to hard court in 1988. The last four players (Agassi, Federer, Nadal, Djokovic) achieved their career grand slam on three different surfaces: hard court, clay, and grass.\n\nEach woman's \"first wins\" in the four majors are listed chronologically and their ages upon completion of the Career Grand Slam are given in brackets. Five of the ten women achieved at least two Career Grand Slams, two of the ten have achieved three Career Grand Slams and Steffi Graf is the only player to achieve four Career Grand Slams.\n\nAt Men's Doubles, 21 players have won the Career Grand Slam, including fourteen who achieved the Career Grand Slam with a unique partner. The latter are listed first, as seven teams, ignoring any major wins with other partners. Eight of the 21 men achieved at least a double Career Grand Slam at Men's Doubles, led by Roy Emerson and John Newcombe with triple Slams.\n\nAt Women's Doubles, 21 players have won the career Slam, including ten who achieved the Career Grand Slam with a unique partner. Nine of the 21 achieved at least a double Career Grand Slam at Women's Doubles, led by Martina Navratilova with seven or more titles in each major.\n\nAt Mixed Doubles, a total of 17 players have won the career Slam, including seven who won all four events with the same partner — an odd number because Margaret Court accomplished a career Grand Slam separately with Ken Fletcher and Marty Riessen. The two other teams which won all four events are Doris Hart with Frank Sedgman, and Martina Hingis with Leander Paes. Four of the 17 players have accomplished multiple career Grand Slams in mixed doubles, led by Margaret Court's quadruple Slam.\n\nHelen Wills Moody won all 16 of the Grand Slam singles tournaments she played beginning with the 1924 U.S. Championships and extending to the 1933 Wimbledon Championships (not counting her defaults in the 1926 French and Wimbledon Championships). During this period, she won 6 Wimbledons, 4 French Championships, and 6 U.S. Championships. She also won the 1924 Summer Olympics during this period. Moody never entered the Australian Championships.\n\nDoris Hart won all 13 of the Grand Slam mixed doubles tournaments she played beginning with the 1951 French Championships and extending to the 1955 U.S. Championships. During this period, she won 5 Wimbledons, 3 French Championships, and 5 U.S. Championships.\n\nTennis was an Olympic sport from the inaugural 1896 Summer Olympics through the 1924 Games, then was dropped for the next 64 years (except as a demonstration sport in 1968 and 1984) before returning in 1988. As there were only three major championships designated by the International Lawn Tennis Federation before 1925, none of the tennis players who participated in the Olympics between 1896 and 1924 had a chance to complete a Golden Grand Slam. However, there was a possibility to complete a Career Golden Grand Slam by winning the 1920 Olympics or 1924 Olympics plus each of the four grand slams, all of which were present from 1925 onwards. The term \"Golden Slam\" (initially \"Golden Grand Slam\") was coined in 1988.\n\nOnly one player has completed the Golden Slam:\n\nWinning four consecutive Grand Slam tournaments and Olympic event in the period of twelve months, although not in the same year, is called a \"Non-calendar year Golden Slam\". Only Bob and Mike Bryan have achieved this by winning the 2012 Olympics, 2012 US Open, 2013 Australian Open, 2013 French Open and 2013 Wimbledon Championships. After they won the final at Wimbledon, this was coined the \"Golden Bryan Slam\".\nA player who wins all four Grand Slam tournaments and the Olympic gold medal during his or her career is said to have achieved a \"Career Golden Slam\". The event at which the Career Golden Slam was achieved is indicated in bold.\n\nSoon after the Open Era began in 1968, the new professional tours each held a year-end championship (YEC), which are elite tournaments involving only the top performers of the given season. The subsequent return of tennis to the Olympics in 1988 gave rise to the notion of a Super Slam as a combination of Golden Slam and YEC title. Eligible YECs are currently called the ATP Finals for men, WTA Finals for women, and the Wheelchair Tennis Masters.\n\nNo player has ever completed the Super Slam in a single season.\n\nOnly one player has completed the Super Slam in a period of twelve months:\nPlayers who have won three of the four Grand Slam tournaments in the same year. Jack Crawford, Lew Hoad, Martina Navratilova and Serena Williams won the first three events, but lost the last grand slam tournament. Crawford, an asthmatic, won two of the first three sets of the 1933 U.S. Championships final against Fred Perry, then tired in the heat and lost the last two sets and the match. Until 2016, Wimbledon have never hosted singles tournament for wheelchairs. Notwithstanding year when the US Open did not take place due to date clashes with the Paralympics.\n\nPlayers who have played all the four Grand Slam tournaments in the same year.\n\n\nWinning singles, doubles and mixed doubles titles at one Grand Slam event is called a Triple Crown. It has become a rare accomplishment in tennis. This is partly because the final match in all three disciplines often takes place concurrently in the same day if not in consecutive days. Doris Hart for example attained her first Triple Crown after playing three Wimbledon final matches held in one single day.\n\nNotes:\n\n\nAnother Grand Slam-related accomplishment is winning a \"boxed set\" of Grand Slam titles – which is at least one of every possible type of major championship available to a player: the singles, doubles, and mixed doubles at all four Grand Slam events of the year. This has never been accomplished within a year or consecutively across two calendar years.\n\nThe Career Boxed Set refers to winning one of every possible grand slam title (singles, doubles, mixed) over the course of an entire career. No male player has completed this, although Frank Sedgman only missed out on the French Open singles title. Men who participate in top/elite level singles have played comparatively few doubles, and very few mixed doubles. So far, only three women have completed the boxed set during their careers:\n\n\nCourt is not only unique in having two boxed sets, but is also unique in the timing of her accomplishments. Her first boxed set was completed before the start of the open era, and she has a boxed set achieved solely within the open era:\n\nMartina Hingis was the most recent player to be one title away from joining this elite group. She only needed the French Open singles, having reached the final in 1997 and 1999. Prior to Hingis, it was Billie Jean King who came close at completing a career boxed set. She only needed the Australian Open women's doubles title, having reached the final in 1965 and 1969.\n\nOf the many players who have managed to win a full set of four majors, there is a small number who have gone on to win all four majors a second or more times. The completion of \"Multiple Career Grand Slams\" or sometimes called \"multiple slam sets\" (MSS) has been achieved by only 22 unique players up to the end of the 2015 Wimbledon. MSS players can be found in each of the five tennis disciplines: men's or women's singles, men's or women's doubles, mixed doubles. It can also be found in women's wheelchair doubles. Of these, five players have completed MSS in more than one discipline: Roy Emerson, Martina Navratilova, Frank Sedgman and Serena Williams have MSS in two disciplines, Margaret Court has MSS in three disciplines.\n\nThis table shows each multiple occurrence of a complete MSS for each of the players who have accomplished multiple slams in a particular tennis discipline. The year shown for each of the four majors is the year that particular major win was repeated as part of that player's achievement of their second (all 22 players) and third (8 players) and fourth (4 players) and fifth through seventh (Martina Navratilova, in women's doubles) complete slam set of major wins.\n\nFor example, the fourth row shows that Margaret Court completed her third career slam set in Women's Singles—winning each of the four majors three times—during the 1970 Wimbledon Championships (bold). More specific, she won: Australian open 11 times, the third in 1962; French Open five times, the third in 1969; Wimbledon three times (determines the maximum of sets), the third in 1970 and finally US Open five times, the third in 1969. Grey background shades lesser achievements by the same player in the same discipline (e.g., Court in the eighth row); yellow highlights the greatest achievement in the discipline (e.g., Graf in the third row).\nBy discipline (numbers of players and table entries)\n\nBefore the Open Era began in 1968, only amateur players were allowed to compete in the four majors. Many male top players \"went pro\" in order to win prize money legally, competing on a professional world tour comprising completely different events. From 1927 through 1967, the three oldest pro events were considered \"majors\" of the pro tour: the U.S. Pro Tennis Championships, French Pro Championship and Wembley Championships. A player who won all three in a calendar year was considered to achieve a \"Professional Grand Slam\", or \"Pro Slam\". The feat was accomplished twice:\nThree other players won those three major trophies during their pro careers: Ellsworth Vines, Hans Nüsslein and Don Budge. The pro slams did not have a women's draw.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009303", "title": "Hermès", "text": "Hermès\n\nHermès International S.A., or simply Hermès (; ) is a French high fashion luxury goods manufacturer established in 1837. It specializes in leather, lifestyle accessories, home furnishings, perfumery, jewellery, watches and ready-to-wear. Its logo, since the 1950s, is of a Duc carriage with horse. Nadège Vanhee-Cybulski is the current creative director.\n\nThierry Hermès was born in Krefeld, Germany, to a French father and a German mother. The family moved to France in 1828. In 1837, Hermès first established a harness workshop in the Grands Boulevards quarter of Paris, dedicated to serving European noblemen. He created high-quality wrought harnesses and bridles for the carriage trade, winning several awards including the first prize in its class in 1855 and again in 1867 at the Expositions Universelles in Paris.\n\nHermès's son, Charles-Émile, took over management from his father in 1880 and moved the shop to \"24 rue du Faubourg Saint-Honoré\", where it remains. With the help of his sons Adolphe and Émile-Maurice, Charles-Émile introduced saddlery and started selling his products retail. The company catered to the élite of Europe, North Africa, Russia, Asia, and the Americas. In 1900, the firm offered the \"Haut à Courroies\" bag, specially designed for riders to carry their saddles with them.\n\nAfter Charles-Émile Hermès's retirement, sons Adolphe and Émile-Maurice took leadership and renamed the company Hermès Frères. Shortly after, Émile-Maurice began furnishing the czar of Russia with saddles. By 1914, up to 80 saddle craftsmen were employed. Subsequently, Émile-Maurice was granted the exclusive rights to use the zipper for leather goods and clothing, becoming the first to introduce the device in France. In 1918, Hermès introduced the first leather golf jacket with a zipper, made for Edward, Prince of Wales. Because of its exclusive rights arrangement the zipper became known in France as the \"fermeture Hermès\" (Hermès fastener).\n\nThroughout the 1920s when he was the sole head of the firm, Émile-Maurice added accessories and clothing collections. He also groomed his three sons-in-law (Robert Dumas, Jean-René Guerrand, and Francis Puech) as business partners. In 1922, the first leather handbags were introduced after Émile-Maurice's wife complained of not being able to find one to her liking. Émile-Maurice created the handbag collection himself.\nIn 1924, Hermès established a presence in the United States and opened two shops outside of Paris. In 1929, the first women's couture apparel collection was previewed in Paris. During the 1930s, Hermès introduced some of its most recognized original goods such as the leather \"Sac à dépêches\" in 1935 (later renamed the \"Kelly bag\" after Grace Kelly) and the Hermès \"carrés\" (square scarves) in 1937.\n\nThe scarves became integrated into French culture. In 1938, the \"Chaîne d'ancre\" bracelet and the riding jacket and outfit joined the classic collection. By this point, the company's designers began to draw inspirations from paintings, books, and \"objets d'art\". The 1930s also witnessed Hermès's entry into the United States market by offering products in a Neiman Marcus department store in New York; however, it later withdrew. In 1949, the same year as the launch of the Hermès silk tie, the first perfume, \"Eau d'Hermès\", was produced.\n\nFrom the mid-1930s, Hermès employed Swiss watchmaker Universal Genève as the brand's first and exclusive designer of timepieces, producing a line of men's wrist chronographs (manufactured in 18K gold or stainless steel) and women's Art Déco cuff watches in 18K gold, steel, or platinum. Both models contained dials signed either \"Hermès\" or \"Hermès Universal Genève\", while the watch movements were signed \"Universal Genève S.A.\". The Hermès/Universal partnership lasted until the 1950s.\n\nÉmile-Maurice summarized the Hermès philosophy during his leadership as \"leather, sport, and a tradition of refined elegance.\"\n\nRobert Dumas-Hermès (1898–1978), who succeeded Émile-Maurice after his death in 1951, closely collaborated with brother-in-law Jean-René Guerrand. Dumas became the first man not directly descended from \"Hermès père\" to lead the company because his connection to the family was only through marriage. Thus, he incorporated the Hermès name into his own, Dumas-Hermès.\n\nThe company also acquired its Duc-carriage-with-horse logo and signature orange paper boxes in the early 1950s. Dumas introduced original handbags, jewelry, and accessories and was particularly interested in design possibilities with the silk scarves. Ironically, during the mid-20th century, scarf production diminished. World Tempus, a Web portal dedicated to watchmaking, states: \"Brought to life by the magic wand of Annie Beaumel, the windows of the store on the [rue du] Faubourg Saint-Honoré became a theatre of enchantment and [established the store as] a Parisian meeting-place for international celebrities.\" In 1956, \"Life\" magazine featured a photograph of Grace Kelly, who had become the new Princess of Monaco, carrying the \"Sac à dépêches\" bag. Purportedly, she held it in front of herself to disguise her pregnancy. Thus, when the public began calling it the \"Kelly\" bag, a name subsequently adopted by Hermès, it became hugely popular.\n\nThe perfume business became a subsidiary in 1961, concurrently with the introduction of the \"Calèche\" scent, named after a hooded four-wheeled horse carriage, known since the 18th century, and is also the company's logo since the 1950s. (In 2004, Jean-Claude Ellena became the in-house perfumer or \"nose\" and has created several successful scents, including the Hermessence line of fragrances.)\n\nDespite the company's apparent success in the 1970s, exemplified by multiple shops' being established worldwide, Hermès began to decline, compared to competitors. Some industry observers have assigned the cause to Hermès's insistence on the exclusive use of natural materials for its products, unlike other companies that were calling on new man-made materials. During a two-week lapse in orders, the Hermès workrooms were silent. The renewed success of Hermès's fragrances in the marketplace was probably due to the public's increasingly paradigmatic shift of back to natural materials as opposed to artificial. This point undoubtedly contributed to reestablishing Hermès's scents as a major player in the fragrances marketplace.\n\nJean-Louis Dumas, the son of Robert Dumas-Hermès, became chairman in 1978 and had the firm concentrate on silk and leather goods and ready-to-wear, adding new product groups to those made with its traditional techniques. Unlike his father, Jean-Louis was maternally related to the Hermès family. Travelling extensively and marrying Rena Greforiadès, he entered the buyer-training program at Bloomingdale's, the New York department store. Having joined the family firm in 1964, he was instrumental in turning around its decline.\n\nDumas brought in designers Eric Bergère and Bernard Sanz to revamp the apparel collection and, in collaboration, added unusual entries. They included the python motorcycle jackets and ostrich-skin jeans, which were dubbed as \"a snazzier version of what Hermès has been all along.\" (Annual sales in 1978, when Jean-Louis became head of the firm, were reported at US $50 million. By 1990, annual sales were reported at US $460 million, mainly due to Dumas's strategy.) In 1979, he launched an advertising campaign featuring a young, denim-clad woman wearing an Hermès scarf. The purpose was to introduce the Hermès brand to a new set of consumers. As one fashion-sector observer noted: \"Much of what bears the still-discreet Hermès label changed from the object of an old person's nostalgia to the subject of young peoples' dreams.\" However, Dumas's change-of-image created outrage both within and outside of the firm.\n\nAlso in the 1970s, the watch subsidiary, La Montre Hermès, was established in Bienne, Switzerland. Then, throughout the 1980s, Dumas strengthened the company's hold on its suppliers, resulting in Hermès's gaining great stakes in prominent French glassware, silverware acquiring venerable tableware manufacturers such as Puiforcat, St. Louis, and Périgord.\n\nFrom the 1980s, tableware became a strong segment of the firm. And, overall, the collection of Hermès goods expanded in 1990 to include over 30,000 pieces. New materials used in the collection included porcelain and crystal.\n\nHermès relocated its workshops and design studios to Pantin, just outside Paris. By June 1993 Hermès had gone public on the Paris Bourse (stock exchange). At the time, the equity sale generated great excitement. The 425,000 shares floated at FFr 300 (US $55 at the time) were oversubscribed by 34 times. Dumas told \"Forbes magazine\" that the equity sale would help lessen family tensions by allowing some members to liquidate their holdings without \"squabbling over share valuations among themselves.\"\n\nTo this time, the Hermès family was still retaining a strong hold of about 80% in stocks, placing Jean-Louis Dumas and the entire family on the \"Forbes\" list of billionaires. Mimi Tompkins of \"U.S. News & World Report\" called the company \"one of Paris' best guarded jewels.\"\n\nIn the following years, Dumas decreased Hermès franchises from 250 to 200 and increased company-owned stores from 60 to 100 to better control sales of its products. The plan was to cost about FFr 200 million in the short term but to increase profits in the long term. Having around FFr 500 million to invest, Hermès pressed ahead, targeting China for company-operated boutiques, finally opening a store in Beijing in 1996.\n\nIn 1997, Jean-Louis hired iconoclastic Belgian designer Martin Margiela to supervise women's ready-to-wear.\n\nBy the late 1990s, Hermès continued extensively to diminish the number of franchised stores, buying them up and opening more company-operated boutiques. The fashion industry was caught off guard in September 1999, when Jean-Louis decided to pay FFr 150 million for a 35% stake in the Jean-Paul Gaultier fashion house. In the latter part of the 1900s, the company encouraged its clientele to \"faites nous rêver\" (make us dream), producing throughout the period artistically atypical orders.\n\nIn 2003, Margiela left Hermès, and highly controversial Jean-Paul Gaultier, as the head designer, debuted his first ready-to-wear collection for fall/winter 2004–05.\n\nAfter 28 years as head of the firm, Jean-Louis Dumas retired in January 2006. Known for his charm and one of Europe's greatest authorities on luxury, he died in 2010 after a long illness. Patrick Thomas, who had joined the company in 1989 and who had worked with Jean-Louis as the co-CEO from 2005, replaced him. Thomas became the first non-Hermès family member to head the company.\n\nIn February 2015, Hermès has announced an increase of its turnover of 9.7%, which represents more than €4 billion in sales.\n\nThis increase is internationally visible. In Asia, excluding Japan, where the turnover grew 7%, in America, with 10% rise, in Europe where it grew 7% growth and generated a good performance in the group’s stores.\n\nOn 17 May 2018, Malaysian police seized 284 luxury bags, believed to be some Hermès handbags from the former Prime Minister of Malaysia, Dato' Seri Najib Razak's-linked apartments.\n\nThe designers throughout the company's history have included Lola Prusac, Jacques Delahaye, Catherine de Karolyi, Monsieur Levaillant, Nicole de Vesian, Eric Bergère, Claude Brouet, Tan Giudicelli, Marc Audibet, Mariot Chane, Bernard Sanz, Martin Margiela, Jean-Paul Gaultier, Christophe Lemaire, Véronique Nichanian (the men's-wear designer since 1988), and Nadège Vanhee-Cybulski (since 2014 succeeding Lemaire).\n\nKnown for luxury goods, by 2008, Hermès had 14 product divisions that encompassed leather, scarves, ties, men's and women's wear, perfume, watches, stationery, footwear, gloves, enamelware, decorative arts, tableware, and jewellery.\n\nHermès sales compose about 30% leather goods, 15% clothes, 12% scarves, and 43% other wares. The company licenses no products and keeps tight control over the design and manufacture of its vast inventory.\n\nThe firm is very attach to its traditional business model and rejects mass production, assembly lines, and mechanization. Hermès's goods are almost entirely made in France by hand in middle-sized workshops known as Les Ateliers Hermès that emphase high-quality manufacturing. Indeed, Hermès claims most items are fabricated from beginning to end by only one person, which is supposed to guarantee the quality and uniqueness of its products.\n\nIn 2012, Hermès retail outlets changed their policy regarding returns and exchanges of products. Consumers may only exchange items within ten days of purchase and only for another color variant of the original purchase. No other post-purchase exchanges are permitted, and refunds are never offered, regardless of the consumer's having a receipt.\n\nThe scarf or \"carré\" (square) was introduced in 1937. The first example was a 70 cm x 70 cm print of white-wigged females playing a popular period game, a custom-made accessory named \"Jeu des Omnibus et Dames Blanches.\" Hermès oversaw the production of its scarves throughout the entire process, purchasing raw Chinese silk, spinning it into yarn, and weaving it into fabric twice as strong and heavy as most scarves available at the time.\n\nThe company's scarf designers spend years creating new print patterns that are individually screen-printed. Designers can choose from over 70,000 different colors. When production first began, a dedicated factory was established in Lyon, France, the same year that Hermès celebrated its 100th anniversary.\n\nContemporary Hermès \"carrés\" measure 90 cm × 90 cm, weigh 65 grams and are woven from the silk of 250 mulberry moth cocoons. All hems are hand-stitched. Motifs are wide-ranging, Two silk-scarf collections per year are released, along with some reprints of older designs and limited editions. And two collections per year are introduced in a Cashmere/silk blend. Since 1937, Hermès has produced over 2,000 unique designs; the horse motif is particularly famous and popular. The ubiquitous \"Brides de Gala\" version, introduced in 1957, has been produced more than 70,000 times. An Hermès scarf is sold somewhere in the world every 25 seconds; by the late 1970s, more than 1.1 million scarves had been sold worldwide.\n\nThe scarves have been worn by an array of celebrities, partially such as:\n\nIn 1946, the brand introduced a range of men's silk neckties in an array of motifs and widths. Neckties account for 10% of the company's annual sales.\n\nFor years, Hermès has partnered with Tuareg tribesmen for silver jewelry. The Saharan nomads' traditional motifs are often mirrored in various Hermès products, including scarves.\n\nHermès is known for its handmade luggage and handbags. One of them might require 18 to 24 hours to produce. The construction of each Kelly bag, for example, requires 18 hours to fully realize. Hermès's leathers come from all over the world. Customers may currently wait from six months to one year for delivery of one of the house's signature bags. Incidentally, should Hermès's leather goods require repair, owners can bring an item to any Hermès store, where it will be shipped to Les Ateliers Hermès in Pantin for repair or reconditioning.\n\nAnother famous Hermès handbag, the \"Birkin\", was named after English actress Jane Birkin. After a chance encounter with Jean-Louis Dumas, she complained that her \"Kelly\" bag was not practical for everyday use. Consequently, he invited her to France where they co-designed the bag in 1984. Birkin has since stopped carrying her namesake bag due to her tendonitis, as the bag became too large and heavy for her to carry. Asked by her that her name be removed and with much back-and-forth comments about various issues such as having her name removed. According to \"Vogue\": \"Jane Birkin 'is satisfied by the measures taken by Hermès', according to the brand, following an investigation by the fashion house [that refuted] claims made by PETA [the animal-rights organization] that its famous Birkin bags were being 'constructed from the skins of factory-farmed and cruelly slaughtered crocodiles.' \"\n\nSince 1951, the company has created a number of scents for both men and women, as well as unisex lines.\n\n\nBelonging to the group is the crystal glass manufacturer Saint-Louis, the oldest crystal company in the world. Since its founding in 1586, Saint-Louis has drawn design inspiration from the decorative periods of the 19th and 20th centuries, from the Restoration to Modern styles, through Napoléon III, Art Nouveau and Art Déco. Saint-Louis became one of the Hermès Group Métiers in 1989.\n\nIn 2015, Hermès partnered with Apple Inc. to produce the Apple Watch Hermès, combining Apple's smartwatch with Hermès's specially crafted single tour, double tour, and cuff watch bands.\n\nThe Hermès Foundation was launched in 2008. It is chaired by Pierre-Alexis Dumas, the artistic director of Hermés, and directed by Catherine Tsekenis.\n\nThe Foundation embodies the group's goal to sponsor and support creation and craftsmanship activities.\n\nIn 2010, it launched the biannual Emile Hermès Prize that rewards an innovative project in the field of design. In 2014, the three winners who shared the first prize, chaired by Italian architect Michele De Lucchi, were Johan Brunel and Samuel Misslen for their \"Ventilated Capsule,\" Antoine Lesur and Marc Venot for \"Hut,\" and Paul Tubiana for \"Leon.\" In 2012, the Foundation participated in the \"New Settings\" show for the promotion of the arts. In 2013, the Foundation supported the exhibition of works by young artists shown at the Palace of Tokyo. In January 2014, it has pledged a three year support of the Cité internationale of Aubusson tapestry.\n\nBy 31 December 2016, the Hermès family, as partners of Émile Hermès SARL and their family members, collectively owned 65.1% of the share capital of Hermès International S.A. through a number of asset holding companies and direct ownerships, which entitled the family to 74.8% of the voting rights on allocation of net income and 77.2% on all other matters. Luxury-goods conglomerate LVMH held 20.21% of shares (amassed in the latter half of 2010) and 13.08% of votes at the same date, with 0.39% of shares held as treasury stock and the remaining 16.61% as free float. Speculation that LVMH would launch a takeover bid for Hermès has been repeatedly denied by its chairman Bernard Arnault. Some industry insiders have been in doubt, such as René Weber, an analyst at Zürich's Vontobel Investment Banking, who has claimed: \"Arnault is not afraid of a fight and a lot of his battles have been successful for him and his shareholders. Whether he can eventually succeed with [a takeover of] Hermès is still an open question.\" Bertrand Puech, who chairs the main Hermès family holding company, has criticised LVMH's acquisition of Hermès shares and called on the company to reduce its stake by half.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39211489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39211489", "title": "Hierarchy of death", "text": "Hierarchy of death\n\nHierarchy of death is a phrase used by journalists, social scientists, and academics to describe disproportionate amounts of media attention paid to various incidents of death around the world.\n\nDefinitions of the hierarchy of death vary, but several themes remain consistent in terms of media coverage: domestic deaths trump foreign deaths, deaths in the developed world trump deaths in the developing world, deaths of whites trump deaths of darker skinned people, and deaths in ongoing conflicts garner relatively little media attention.\nBritish media commentator Roy Greenslade has been credited with coining the term while writing on the newsworthiness of those who died during The Troubles. Greenslade continues to critique the phenomenon, including media reactions to the Boston Marathon bombings. \n\nNPR discussed the disparity in media coverage between the 2015 Beirut bombings and the November 2015 Paris attacks, which happened with a day of each other.\n\nScottish journalist Allan Massie has also written on the topic.\n\nThe hierarchy of death has been compared to missing white woman syndrome.\n"}
{"id": "59030872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59030872", "title": "International Himalayan Festival", "text": "International Himalayan Festival\n\nInternational Himalayan Festival is a festival that is held every year in the state of Himachal Pradesh, India to honour Dalai Lama, a recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize in 1985. This cultural festival is known for the performances by various groups from around Himachal Pradesh and sometimes other Himalayan regions as well . The festival is particularly significant as it symbolizes the peace initiative. Indo-Tibetan Friendship Society alongside the Central Tibetan Administration and Himachal Pradesh Tourism supports the this Festival. In 2018, it was held in Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh in the month of December. \n\nThe festival is aimed at reinforcing the ties and harmony between the locals of Himachal Pradesh and the Tibetans living there. The main features of the International Himalayan Festival includes cultural shows and exhibitions, mainly by the artists of the Tibetan Institute of Performing Arts, local craftsmen, social groups and school children. One of the real attractions amid the International Himalayan Festival is the widespread stalls in the streets. Each stall speaks to the way of life, traditions of the state and display the local herbs and handicrafts of the inhabitants. Along the streets, there are various food stalls that offer delightful authentic delicacies. One can spend the whole day tasting these dishes. Different stalls in the festival feature the lifestyle, meticulous work, customary herbs, and cooking styles of the Himalayan area. Different cultural programs and shows are conducted as part of this grand festival. The showcase of its rich culture is certain to keep the sightseers stuck during this festival. \n\nThis festival is held at that time when snowflakes begin hitting the place. Since Himachal Pradesh is located in the lower region of Himalayas, the climate gets really chilly during the month of December. What's more, amid this celebration, toursits can invest energy getting a charge out of the conventional shows performed by the local residents. During these three days, the whole state of Himachal Pradesh observes an amicable mix of cultural programmes performed by different communities of the state. Tourists during this time get the chance to experience the rich culture that this place is blessed with.\n"}
{"id": "21705704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21705704", "title": "Leblouh", "text": "Leblouh\n\nLeblouh () is the practice of force-feeding girls from as young as five to nineteen, in Mauritania, Western Sahara, and southern Morocco, where obesity was traditionally regarded as desirable. Especially prevalent in rural areas and having its roots in Tuareg tradition, \"leblouh\" is practiced to increase chances of marriage in a society where high body volume used to be a sign of wealth. The synonym gavage comes from the French term for the force-feeding of geese to produce \"foie gras\".\n\nThe practice goes back to the 11th century, and has been reported to have made a significant comeback in Mauritania after a military junta took over the country in 2008.\n\nOlder women called \"fatteners\" force the young girls to consume enormous quantities of food and liquid, inflicting pain on them if they do not eat and drink. One way of inflicting pain is to pinch a limb between two sticks. A six-year-old might typically be forced to drink of camel's milk, and eat two kilos of pounded millet mixed with two cups of butter, every day. Although the practice is abusive, mothers claim there is no other way to secure a good future for their children.\n\nThe younger generations of males in Mauritania now see fattening negatively.. \n\nA similar practice is referred to in a folktale entitled \"The Tortoise with a Pretty Daughter\", collected in \"Folk Stories from Southern Nigeria\" (1910). The folklorist who wrote down the story explained the treatment of the \"pretty daughter\": \"The fatting house is a room where a girl is kept for some weeks before her marriage. She is given plenty of food, and made as fat as possible, as fatness is looked upon as a great beauty by the Efik people.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23176167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23176167", "title": "Marjorie Mikasen", "text": "Marjorie Mikasen\n\nMarjorie Mikasen (born 1959) is an abstract, geometric, hard-edge acrylic painter working in Lincoln, Nebraska. She has a degree in studio arts from The University of Minnesota. She is co-author with Mark Griep of the nonfiction book \"Re'Action!' Chemistry in the Movies.\"\n\nMikasen was born in Chicago, Illinois, but grew up in Minneapolis-St. Paul, Minnesota. She is of Serbian descent. She attended The University of Minnesota, is a Phi Beta Kappa, and in 1981 received her Bachelor of Arts in Studio Arts.\n\nMikasen is married to Mark Griep, chemistry professor at the University of Nebraska in Lincoln.\n\nIn 1986 she lived and worked as a full-time artist in Denver, Colorado. Mikasen moved in 1990 to Lincoln, Nebraska, where she is an \"abstract, geometric, hard-edge acrylic painter.\"\n\nShe received an Individual Artist Fellowship Award from the Nebraska Arts Council in 2007. In 2013, she was awarded the Madonna Rehabilitation Hospital's Artistic Achievement Award in the Visual Arts, and one of her works was included that year in the \"Nebraska Arts Council Awardees\" exhibition at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln's Sheldon Memorial Art Gallery.\n\nHer works have been exhibited in the United States, Canada, Hungary and the United Kingdom in more than 100 group exhibitions. In Nebraska, her works have been shown in solo exhibitions. Mikasen's works are in private and public collections, including the University of Minnesota's Regis Center for Art and the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) in New York.\n\nShe was president of the Nebraska Women's Caucus for Art (NWCA) in 1997. University of Nebraska-Lincoln’s Sheldon Memorial Art Gallery, University of Nebraska Medical Center, and the University of Nebraska-Lincoln campus. Her work is shown and represented by Omaha, Nebraska's Modern Arts Midtown.\n\nMikasen is featured in the 2010 film \"Swimming in Nebraska\" by independent filmmaker Jon Jost. It has been shown at international and national film festivals. Mikasen has said her work draws on geometric shapes that she sees in the human body and other sources. She is \"interested in what it means to have an intellect, instincts, and a spirit, and how these oppositions inherent in us come into balance.\" Mikasen is inspired by philosophy, psychology, myth, literature and scientific theory.\n\nMikasen is the coauthor with chemist Mark Griep of the nonfiction book \"Re'Action!' Chemistry in the Movies,\" which explores the political, social, and psychological aspects of chemistry of over 140 films and gives the perspectives of a scientist and artist on the \"dark and bright sides\" of the portrayal of chemistry in motion pictures. She and Griep were awarded an Alfred P. Sloan Foundation grant in the area of Public Understanding of Science to research and write the book. Mikasen created a work entitled \"Jekyll & Hyde\" for the book. Its stereo pair format (see stereopsis) has two focal points, which mirrors the split Jekyll & Hyde character whose oppositional personalities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1132045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1132045", "title": "Media democracy", "text": "Media democracy\n\nMedia and democracy is a liberal-democratic approach to media studies that advocates for reforming the mass media, strengthening public service broadcasting, developing and participating in alternative media and citizen journalism, in order to create a mass media system that informs and empowers all members of society, and enhances democratic values. Media is also defined as \"medium\" a way of communicating with others.\n\nMedia democracy focuses on empower individual citizens and promote democratic ideals through the spread of information. Additionally, the media system itself should be democratic in its own construction shying away from private ownership or intense regulation. Media democracy entails that media should be used to promote democracy as well as the conviction that media should be democratic itself; media ownership concentration is not democratic and cannot serve to promote democracy and therefore must be examined critically. The concept, and a social movement promoting it, have grown as a response to the increased corporate domination of mass media and the perceived shrinking of the marketplace of ideas.\n\nThe term refers to a modern social movement evident in countries all over the world which attempts to make mainstream media more accountable to the publics they serve and to create more democratic alternatives.\n\nThe concept of a media democracy follows in response to the deregulation of broadcast markets and the concentration of mass media ownership. In the book \"\", authors Edward S. Herman and Noam Chomsky outline the propaganda model of media, which states that the private interests in control of media outlets will shape news and information before it is disseminated to the public through the use of five information filters. \n\nMedia democracy allows people the right to participate in media, it extends the media’s relationship to the public sphere, where the information that is gathered and can be viewed and shared by the people. The public sphere is described as a network of communicating information and points of view from people, which is reproduced through communicative action through the media to the public. The relationship of media democracy and the public sphere extends to various types of media, such as social media and mainstream media, in order for people to communicate with one another through digital media and share the information they want to publish to the public.\n\nThe public sphere can be seen as a theater in modern societies in which political participation is enacted through a medium of talk and a realm of social life which public opinion can be formed. The public sphere is also a democratic system that is open to any free citizen who would like to participate in media if they have any information they would like to share to society. The public sphere has changed because of the development of mass communication, giving people opportunities to participate in media and the right to share information through all channels of communications. The democracy of the public sphere is in the participation of citizens who provide information to the media and share it to society.\n\nMedia democracy advocates that corporate ownership and commercial pressures influence media content, sharply limiting the range of news, opinions, and entertainment citizens receive. Consequently, they call for a more equal distribution of economic, social, cultural, and information capital, which would lead to a more informed citizenry, as well as a more enlightened, representative political discourse.\n\nA media democracy advocates:\n\nThe competitive structure of the mass media landscape stands in opposition to democratic ideals since the competition of the marketplace effects how stories are framed and transmitted to the public. This can \"hamper the ability of the democratic system to solve internal social problems as well as international conflicts in an optimal way.\"\n\nMedia democracy is grounded in creating a mass media system that favours a diversity of voices and opinions over ownership or consolidation, in an effort to eliminate bias in coverage. This, in turn, leads to the informed public debate necessary for a democratic state.\nThe ability to comprehend and scrutinize the connection between press and democracy is important because media has the power to tell a society’s stories and thereby influence thinking, beliefs and behaviour.\n\nCultural studies have investigated changes in the increasing tendency of modern mass media in the field of politics to blur and confuse the boundaries between journalism, entertainment, public relations and advertising.\nA diverse range of information providers is necessary so that viewers, readers and listeners receive a broad spectrum of information from varying sources that is not tightly controlled, biased and filtered. Access to different sources of information prevents deliberate attempts at misinformation and allows the public to make their own judgments and form their own opinions. This is critical as individuals must be in a position to decide and act autonomously for there to be a functioning democracy.\n\nThe last several decades have seen an increased concentration of media ownership by large private entities. In the United States, these organizations are known as the Big Six. They include: General Electric, Walt Disney Co., News Corporation, Time Warner, Viacom, and CBS Corporation. A similar approach has been taken in Canada, where most media outlets are owned by national conglomerates. This has led to a reduction in the number of voices and opinions communicated to the public; to an increase in the commercialization of news and information; a reduction in investigative reporting; and an emphasis on infotainment and profitability over informative public discourse.\n\nThe concentration of media outlets has been encouraged by government deregulation and neoliberal trade policies. In the United States, the Telecommunications Act of 1996 removed most of the media ownership rules that were previously put in place. This led to a massive consolidation of the telecommunications industry. Over 4,000 radio stations were bought out, and minority ownership in TV stations dropped to its lowest point since 1990, when the federal government began tracking the data.\n\nThe World Wide Web, and in particular Web 2.0, is seen as a powerful medium for facilitating the growth of a media democracy as it offers participants, \"a potential voice, a platform, and access to the means of production\". \n\nThe use of digital social networking technologies to promote political dissent and reform lends credibility to the media democracy model. This is apparent in the widespread protests in the Middle East and North Africa known as the Arab Spring where social media sites like Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube allowed citizens to quickly connect with one another, exchange information, and organize protests against their governments. While social media cannot solely be credited with the success of these protests, the technologies played an important role in instilling change in Tunisia, Egypt, and Libya. These acts show a population can be informed through alternative media channels, and can adjust its behaviour accordingly.\n\nCrowdfunded websites have also been linked to a heightened spread of media democracy.\nThough the model aims to democratize the opinions expressed within the mass media as well as the ownership of media entities themselves, feminist media theory argues that the media cannot be considered truly inclusive or democratic insofar as they rely on the masculine concepts of impartiality and objectivity. Creating a more inclusive and democratic media would require reconceptualizing how we define the news and its principles. According to some feminist media theorists, news is like fictional genres that impose order and interpretation on its materials by means of narrative. Consequently, the news narrative put forward presents only one angle of a much wider picture.\n\nIt is argued that the distinction between public and private information that underpins how we define valuable or appropriate news content is also a gendered concept. The feminist argument follows that the systematic subversion of private or subjective information excludes women's voices from the popular discourse. Further to this point, feminist media theorists argue there is an assumed sense of equality or equalness implicit in the definition of the public that ignores important differences between genders in terms of their perspectives. So while media democracy in practice as alternative or citizen journalism may allow for greater diversity, these theorists argue that women's voices are framed within a masculine structure of objectivity and rationalist thinking.\n\nDespite this criticism there is an acceptance among some theorists that the blurring of public and private information with the introduction of some new alternative forms of media production (as well as the increase in opportunities for interaction and user-generated content) may signal a positive shift towards a more democratic and inclusive media democracy. Some forms of media democracy in practice (as citizen or alternative journalism) are challenging journalism's central tenets (objectivity and impartiality) by rejecting the idea that it is possible to tell a narrative without bias and, more to the point, that it is socially or morally preferable.\n\nCritics of media democracy note that in order for the system to function properly, it assumes each member of society to be an educated and active participant in the creation of media and exchange of information. In countries with a high illiteracy rate, for example, it would be next to impossible for average citizens to take part and fully engage with media, and adjust their behaviour accordingly in society. Instead of promoting democratic ideals, this would in turn fracture society into an upper-class that actively participates in creating the media, and a lower-class that only consumes it, leaving individuals open to the manipulation of information or media bias. This is not far from Nancy Fraser’s critique of the Habermasian public sphere, with regards to the bracketing of personal inequalities.\n\nRestrictions in media may exist either directly or indirectly. Before internet usage of media as well as social media became prominent, ordinary citizens rarely had much control over media. Even as the usage of social media has increased, major corporations still maintain the primary control over media as they are acquiring more and more platforms that would be considered in public use today.\n\nMedia has been compared in the sense that it is the usage of media that determines how the content is considered, rather than the actual messages of the content. According to the Alec Charles edited \"Media/Democracy\", “It is not the press or television or the internet or even democracy itself that is good or bad. It is what we do with them that makes them so”. \n\nThe role government plays in media restrictions in media has been viewed with skepticism as well. The government involvement in media is possibly due to distrust between the government and media, as the government has criticized media before. Partial blame for distrust between the government and the public on both sides often goes to media as the public may feel as though there is false information though media and the government may feel as though media is giving the public false information. \n\nThese functions of media in the way that it exists is described in a review of Victor Pickard’s book, \"America’s Battle for Media Democracy: The Triumph of Corporate Libertarianism and the Future of Media Reform,\" where Josh Shepperd wrote, “If one approaches the historical question of media ownership from a public service model, the private emphasis of the system requires praise for its innovations and self-sustainability, but deserves deep interrogation for its largely uncontested claim that the system, as is, provides the best opportunity for social recognition”.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "676718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=676718", "title": "Medical tourism", "text": "Medical tourism\n\nMedical tourism refers to people traveling to a country other than their own to obtain medical treatment. In the past this usually referred to those who traveled from less-developed countries to major medical centers in highly developed countries for treatment unavailable at home. However, in recent years it may equally refer to those from developed countries who travel to developing countries for lower priced medical treatments. The motivation may be also for medical services unavailable or illegal in the home country.\n\nMedical tourism most often is for surgeries (cosmetic or otherwise) or similar treatments, though people also travel for dental tourism or fertility tourism. People with rare conditions may travel to countries where the treatment is better understood. However, almost all types of health care are available, including psychiatry, alternative medicine, convalescent care, and even burial services.\n\nHealth tourism is a wider term for travel that focus on medical treatments and the use of healthcare services. It covers a wide field of health-oriented, tourism ranging from preventive and health-conductive treatment to rehabilitational and curative forms of travel. Wellness tourism is a related field.\n\nThe first recorded instance of people travelling for medical treatment dates back thousands of years to when Greek pilgrims traveled from the eastern Mediterranean to a small area in the Saronic Gulf called Epidauria. This territory was the sanctuary of the healing god Asklepios.\n\nSpa towns and sanitaria were early forms of medical tourism. In 18th-century Europe patients visited spas because they were places with supposedly health-giving mineral waters, treating diseases from gout to liver disorders and bronchitis.\n\nFactors that have led to the increasing popularity of medical travel include the high cost of health care, long wait times for certain procedures, the ease and affordability of international travel, and improvements in both technology and standards of care in many countries. The avoidance of waiting times is the leading factor for medical tourism from the UK, whereas in the US, the main reason is cheaper prices abroad.\n\nMany surgery procedures performed in medical tourism destinations cost a fraction of the price they do in other countries. For example, in the United States, a liver transplant that may cost $300,000 USD, would generally cost about $91,000 USD in Taiwan. A large draw to medical travel is convenience and speed. Countries that operate public health-care systems often have long wait times for certain operations, for example, an estimated 782,936 Canadian patients spent an average waiting time of 9.4 weeks on medical waiting lists in 2005. Canada has also set waiting time benchmarks for non urgent medical procedures, including a 26-week waiting period for a hip replacement and a 16-week wait for cataract surgery.\n\nIn First World countries such as the United States, medical tourism has large growth prospects and potentially destabilizing implications. A forecast by Deloitte Consulting published in August 2008 projected that medical tourism originating in the US could jump by a factor of ten over the next decade. An estimated 750,000 Americans went abroad for health care in 2007, and the report estimated that 1.5 million would seek health care outside the US in 2008. The growth in medical tourism has the potential to cost US health care providers billions of dollars in lost revenue.\n\nAn authority at the Harvard Business School stated that \"medical tourism is promoted much more heavily in the United Kingdom than in the United States\".\n\nAdditionally, some patients in some First World countries are finding that insurance either does not cover orthopedic surgery (such as knee or hip replacement) or limits the choice of the facility, surgeon, or prosthetics to be used.\n\nPopular medical travel worldwide destinations include: Canada, Cuba, Costa Rica, Ecuador, India, Israel, Jordan, Malaysia, Mexico, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, United States.\n\nPopular destinations for cosmetic surgery include: Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Ecuador, Mexico, Turkey, Thailand and Ukraine. According to the \"Sociedad Boliviana de Cirugia Plastica y Reconstructiva\", more than 70% of middle and upper class women in the country have had some form of plastic surgery. Other destination countries include Belgium, Poland, Slovakia and South Africa.\n\nSome people travel for assisted pregnancy, such as in-vitro fertilization, or surrogacy, or freezing embryos for retro-production.\n\nHowever, perceptions of medical tourism are not always positive. In places like the US, which has high standards of quality, medical tourism is viewed as risky. In some parts of the world, wider political issues can influence where medical tourists will choose to seek out health care.\n\nHealth tourism providers have developed as intermediaries which unite potential medical tourists with provider hospitals and other organizations. Companies that focus on medical value travel typically provide nurse case managers to assist patients with pre- and post-travel medical issues. They may also help provide resources for follow-up care upon the patient's return.\n\nCircumvention tourism is also an area of medical tourism that has grown. Circumvention tourism is travel in order to access medical services that are legal in the destination country but illegal in the home country. This can include travel for fertility treatments that aren’t yet approved in the home country, abortion, and doctor-assisted suicide. Abortion tourism can be found most commonly in Europe, where travel between countries is relatively simple. Ireland and Poland, two European countries with highly restrictive abortion laws, have the highest rates of circumvention tourism. In Poland especially, it is estimated that each year nearly 7,000 women travel to the UK, where abortion services are free through the National Health Service. There are also efforts being made by independent organizations and doctors, such as with Women on Waves, to help women circumvent draconian laws in order to access medical services. With Women on Waves, the organization uses a mobile clinic aboard a ship to provide medical abortions in international waters, where the law of the country whose flag is flown applies.\n\nInternational healthcare accreditation is the process of certifying a level of quality for healthcare providers and programs across multiple countries. International healthcare accreditation organizations certify a wide range of healthcare programs such as hospitals, primary care centers, medical transport, and ambulatory care services. There are a number of accreditation schemes available based in a number of different countries around the world.\n\nThe oldest international accrediting body is Accreditation Canada, formerly known as the Canadian Council on Health Services Accreditation, which accredited the Bermuda Hospital Board as soon as 1968. Since then, it has accredited hospitals and health service organizations in ten other countries.\n\nIn the United States, the accreditation group Joint Commission International (JCI) was formed in 1994 to provide international clients education and consulting services. Many international hospitals today see obtaining international accreditation as a way to attract American patients.\n\nJoint Commission International is a relative of the Joint Commission in the United States. Both are US-style independent private sector not-for-profit organizations that develop nationally and internationally recognized procedures and standards to help improve patient care and safety. They work with hospitals to help them meet Joint Commission standards for patient care and then accredit those hospitals meeting the standards.\n\nA British scheme, QHA Trent Accreditation, is an active independent holistic accreditation scheme, as well as GCR.org which monitors the success metrics and standards of almost 500,000 medical clinics worldwide.\n\nThe different international healthcare accreditation schemes vary in quality, size, cost, intent and the skill and intensity of their marketing. They also vary in terms of cost to hospitals and healthcare institutions making use of them.\n\nIncreasingly, some hospitals are looking towards dual international accreditation, perhaps having both JCI to cover potential US clientele, and Accreditation Canada or QHA Trent. As a result of competition between clinics for American medical tourists, there have been initiatives to rank hospitals based on patient-reported metrics.\n\nMedical tourism carries some risks that locally provided medical care either does not carry or carries to a much lesser degree.\n\nSome countries, such as South Africa, or Thailand have very different infectious disease-related epidemiology to Europe and North America. Exposure to diseases without having built up natural immunity can be a hazard for weakened individuals, specifically with respect to gastrointestinal diseases (e.g. hepatitis A, amoebic dysentery, paratyphoid) which could weaken progress and expose the patient to mosquito-transmitted diseases, influenza, and tuberculosis. However, because in poor tropical nations diseases run the gamut, doctors seem to be more open to the possibility of considering any infectious disease, including HIV, TB, and typhoid, while there are cases in the West where patients were consistently misdiagnosed for years because such diseases are perceived to be \"rare\" in the West.\n\nThe quality of post-operative care can also vary dramatically, depending on the hospital and country, and may be different from US or European standards. Also, traveling long distances soon after surgery can increase the risk of complications. Long flights and decreased mobility associated with window seats can predispose one towards developing deep vein thrombosis and potentially a pulmonary embolism. Other vacation activities can be problematic as well — for example, scars may become darker and more noticeable if they are sunburned while healing.\n\nAlso, health facilities treating medical tourists may lack an adequate complaints policy to deal appropriately and fairly with complaints made by dissatisfied patients.\n\nDifferences in healthcare provider standards around the world have been recognised by the World Health Organization, and in 2004 it launched the World Alliance for Patient Safety. This body assists hospitals and government around the world in setting patient safety policy and practices that can become particularly relevant when providing medical tourism services.\n\nIf there are complications, the patient may need to stay in the foreign country for longer than planned or if they have returned home, will not have easy access for follow up care.\n\nPatients sometimes travel to another country to obtain medical procedures that doctors in their home country refuse to perform because they believed that the risks of the procedure outweigh the benefits. Such patients may have difficulty getting insurance (whether public or private) to cover follow up medical costs should the feared complications indeed arise.\n\nReceiving medical care abroad may subject medical tourists to unfamiliar legal issues. The limited nature of litigation in various countries is a reason for accessbility of care overseas. While some countries currently presenting themselves as attractive medical tourism destinations provide some form of legal remedies for medical malpractice, these legal avenues may be unappealing to the medical tourist. Should problems arise, patients might not be covered by adequate personal insurance or might be unable to seek compensation via malpractice lawsuits. Hospitals and/or doctors in some countries may be unable to pay the financial damages awarded by a court to a patient who has sued them, owing to the hospital and/or the doctor not possessing appropriate insurance cover and/or medical indemnity.\n\nIssues can also arise for patients who seek out services that are illegal in their home country. In this case, some countries have the jurisdiction to prosecute their citizen once they have returned home, or in extreme cases extraterritorially arrest and prosecute. In Ireland, especially, in the 1980s-90s there were cases of young rape victims who were banned from traveling to Europe to get legal abortions. Ultimately, Ireland’s Supreme Court overturned the ban; they and many other countries have since created \"right to travel\" amendments.\n\nThere can be major ethical issues around medical tourism. For example, the illegal purchase of organs and tissues for transplantation had been methodically documented and studied in countries such as India, China, Colombia and the Philippines. The Declaration of Istanbul distinguishes between ethically problematic \"transplant tourism\" and \"travel for transplantation\".\n\nMedical tourism may raise broader ethical issues for the countries in which it is promoted. For example, in India, some argue that a \"policy of 'medical tourism for the classes and health missions for the masses' will lead to a deepening of the inequities\" already embedded in the health care system. In Thailand, in 2008 it was stated that, \"Doctors in Thailand have become so busy with foreigners that Thai patients are having trouble getting care\". Medical tourism centered on new technologies, such as stem cell treatments, is often criticized on grounds of fraud, blatant lack of scientific rationale and patient safety. However, when pioneering advanced technologies, such as providing 'unproven' therapies to patients outside of regular clinical trials, it is often challenging to differentiate between acceptable medical innovation and unacceptable patient exploitation.\n\nSome US employers have begun exploring medical travel programs as a way to cut employee health care costs. Such proposals have raised stormy debates between employers and trade unions representing workers, with one union stating that it deplored the \"shocking new approach\" of offering employees overseas treatment in return for a share of the company's savings. The unions also raise the issues of legal liability should something go wrong, and potential job losses in the US health care industry if treatment is outsourced.\n\nEmployers may offer incentives such as paying for air travel and waiving out-of-pocket expenses for care outside of the US. For example, in January 2008, Hannaford Bros., a supermarket chain based in Maine, began paying the entire medical bill for employees to travel to Singapore for hip and knee replacements, including travel for the patient and companion. Medical travel packages can integrate with all types of health insurance, including limited benefit plans, preferred provider organizations and high deductible health plans.\n\nIn 2000, Blue Shield of California began the United States' first cross-border health plan. Patients in California could travel to one of the three certified hospitals in Mexico for treatment under California Blue Shield. In 2007, a subsidiary of BlueCross BlueShield of South Carolina, Companion Global Healthcare, teamed up with hospitals in Thailand, Singapore, Turkey, Ireland, Costa Rica and India. A 2008 article in \"Fast Company\" discusses the globalization of healthcare and describes how various players in the US healthcare market have begun to explore it.\n\nJordan, through their Private Hospitals Association, attracted 250,000 international patients accompanied by more than 500,000 companions in 2012, with total revenues exceeding 1B US$. Jordan won the Medical Destination of the year award in 2014 in the IMTJ Medical Travel Awards.\n\nIsrael is a popular destination for medical tourism. Many medical tourists to Israel come from Europe, particularly the former Soviet Union, as well as the United States, Australia, Cyprus, and South Africa. Medical tourists come to Israel for a variety of surgical procedures and therapies, including bone marrow transplants, heart surgery and catheterization, oncological and neurological treatments, orthopedic procedures, car accident rehabilitation, and in-vitro fertilization. Israel's popularity as a destination for medical tourism stems from its status as a developed country with a high-quality level of medical care, while at the same time having lower medical costs than many other developed countries. Israel is particularly popular as a destination for bone marrow transplants among Cypriots, as the procedure is not available in Cyprus, and for orthopedic procedures among Americans, as the cost of orthopedic procedures in Israel is about half that of in the United States. Israel is a particularly popular destination for people seeking IFV treatments. Medical tourists in Israel use both public and private hospitals, and all major Israeli hospitals offer medical tourism packages which typically cost far less than comparable procedures than in facilities elsewhere with a similarly high standard of care. In 2014, it was estimated that roughly 50,000 medical tourists came to Israel annually. There are reports that these medical tourists obtain preferential treatment, to the detriment of local patients. In addition, some people come to Israel to visit health resorts at the Dead Sea, and on Lake Kinneret.\n\nIn 2012, 30,000 people came to Iran to receive medical treatment.\nIn 2015, it is estimated that between 150,000 and 200,000 health tourists came to Iran, and this figure is expected to rise to 500,000 a year.\n\nIran has low endemicity for hepatitis B virus and hepatitis C virus infections and there is a unique experience of control of these infections that can be presented to people in Middle East countries. The pharmaceutical companies in Iran produces the drugs needed for control of HCV and HBV infection such as Tenofovir disoproxil, Peg Interferon, Sofosbuvir/daclatasvir and Ledipasvir with very low prices and high efficacy. Sadeghi F, Salehi-Vaziri M, Almasi-Hashiani A, Gholami-Fesharaki M, Pakzad R, Alavian SM. Prevalence of Hepatitis C Virus Genotypes Among Patients in Countries of the Eastern Mediterranean Regional Office of WHO (EMRO): A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. Hepat Mon. 2016;16(4):e35558.\n\nSouth Africa is the first country in Africa to emerge as a medical tourism destination.\n\nUnited Arab Emirates, especially Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Ras Al Khaimah is a popular destination for medical tourism. The Dubai Health authority has been spearheading medical tourism into UAE, especially Dubai. However, hospitals providing medical tourism are spread all over the seven emirates. UAE has the distinction of having the maximum number of JCI accredited hospitals (under various heads). UAE has inbound medical tourism as well as people going out for medical treatment. The inbound tourism usually is from African countries like Nigeria, Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, etc. The outbound can be categorised into two segments - the local population (citizens of UAE) and the expats. The locals prefer to go to European destinations like the U.K., Germany etc. The expats prefer to go back to their home countries for treatment.\n\nIn Brazil, Albert Einstein Hospital in São Paulo was the first JCI-accredited facility outside of the US, and more than a dozen Brazilian medical facilities have since been similarly accredited.\n\nMexico\n\nMexico has 98 hospitals accredited by the country’s Federal Health Ministry and 7 hospitals which are JCI-accredited. Mexico is most reputed for advanced care in dentistry and cosmetic surgery. Medical care in Mexico saves a patient 40% to 65% compared to the cost of similar services in the US.\n\nIn comparison to US health costs, patients can save 30 to 60 percent on health costs in Canada.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Americans illegally using counterfeit, borrowed, or fraudulently obtained Canadian health insurance cards to obtain free healthcare in Canada became a serious issue due to the high costs it imposed.\n\nIn Costa Rica, there are two Joint Commission International accredited (JCI) hospitals. Both are in San Jose, Costa Rica. When the World Health Organization (WHO) ranked the world's health systems in the year 2000, Costa Rica was ranked as no. 26, which was higher than the U.S., and together with Dominica it dominated the list amongst the Central American countries.\n\nThe Deloitte Center for Health Solutions reported a cost savings average of between 30-70% of US prices.\n\nA report of McKinsey and Co. from 2008 found that between 60,000 and 85,000 medical tourists were traveling to the United States for the purpose of receiving in-patient medical care. The same McKinsey study estimated that 750,000 American medical tourists traveled from the United States to other countries in 2007 (up from 500,000 in 2006). The availability of advanced medical technology and sophisticated training of physicians are cited as driving motivators for growth in foreigners traveling to the U.S. for medical care, whereas the low costs for hospital stays and major/complex procedures at Western-accredited medical facilities abroad are cited as major motivators for American travelers. Also, the decline in value of the U.S. dollar between 2007 and 2013 used to offer additional incentives for foreign travel to the U.S., although cost differences between the US and many locations in Asia are larger than any currency fluctuations.\n\nSeveral major medical centers and teaching hospitals offer international patient centers that cater to patients from foreign countries who seek medical treatment in the U.S. Many of these organizations offer service coordinators to assist international patients with arrangements for medical care, accommodations, finances and transportation including air ambulance services.\n\nCtrip's 2016 Online Medical Tourism Report indicates that the number of travelers who enroll in the oversea medical tourism through its platform increased fivefold over the previous year, and more than 500,000 Chinese visitors are expected to go on medical tourism. The top ten medical tourism destinations are Japan, Korea, the U.S., Taiwan, Germany, Singapore, Malaysia, Sweden, Thailand, and India. Regular health checks made up the majority share of Chinese medical tourism in 2016, representing over 50% of all medical tourism trips for tourists originating in China.\n\nAll twelve of Hong Kong's private hospitals have been surveyed and accredited by the UK's Trent Accreditation Scheme since early 2001.\n\nMedical tourism is a growing sector in India. India is becoming the 2nd medical tourism destination after Thailand. Chennai is regarded as \"India's Health City\" as it attracts 45% of health tourists visiting India and 40% of domestic health tourists.\n\nIndia’s medical tourism sector was expected to experience an annual growth rate of 30% from 2012, making it a $2 billion industry by 2015. As medical treatment costs in the developed world balloon - with the United States leading the way - more and more Westerners are finding the prospect of international travel for medical care increasingly appealing. An estimated 150,000 of these travel to India for low-priced healthcare procedures every year. Cosmetic surgery, bariatric surgery, knee cap replacements, liver transplants, and cancer treatments are some of the most sought out medical tourism procedures chosen by foreigners.\n\nIn 2008, it was estimated that on average New Zealand's surgical costs are around 15 to 20% the cost of the same surgical procedure in the USA.\n\nSingapore has a dozen hospitals and health centers with JCI accreditation. In 2013 medical expenditure generated from medical tourists, mostly from more complex medical procedures, such as heart surgery, was S$832 million, a decline of 25% from 2012's S$1.11 billion, as the hospitals faced more competition from neighbouring countries for less complex work.\n\nForeigners seeking treatment for everything from open-heart surgery to fertility treatmenst have made Thailand and its 39 JCI-accredited hospitals a popular destination for medical tourism, attracting an estimated 2.81 million patients in 2015, up 10.2 percent. In 2013, medical tourists spent as much as US$4.7 billion, according to government statistics. \nMedical tourism is a large and growing sector within Thailand's extensive tourism and healthcare industries. The country is attractive to potential medical tourists and international patients for a number of important reasons: Thailand was the first Asian country to achieve Joint Commission International (JCI) accreditation in 2002. As of April 2014, 35 hospitals were JCI-accredited.; experienced, often Western-trained, medical professionals; the latest medical technology; and significantly lower costs of treatment when compared to corresponding procedures in the West. Taken together, all these factors—plus the country’s reputation as a popular tourist destination—have made Thailand one of the world's most popular medical tourism destinations.\nSome of the primary destinations for medical tourism in Thailand are Bangkok, Chiang Mai, Hua Hin, Ko Samui, Pattaya/Chonburi, and Phuket.\n\nForeigners seeking treatment for everything from open-heart surgery to gender reassignment have placed Thailand's private hospitals among the world's top destinations for medical tourism, attracting an estimated 2.81 million patients in 2015, up 10.2 percent. In 2013, medical tourists pumped as much as US$4.7 billion into the Thai economy, according to government statistics.\n\nThe rise of Chinese tourism in Thailand, growing 31 percent per year since 2012, has lifted medical tourism in Thailand and throughout ASEAN. Of the 8.7 Chinese tourists who visited Thailand in 2016, some 27,000 came for medical treatment. Numbers are expected to grow by 8 to 10 percent by 2023. Also popular among Chinese patients are Malaysia and Singapore, largely owing to the large numbers of Chinese speakers.\n\nIn 2006, it was ruled that under the conditions of the E112 European health scheme, UK health authorities had to pay the bill if one of their patients could establish urgent medical reasons for seeking quicker treatment in another European union country.\n\nThe European directive on the application of patients’ rights to cross-border healthcare was agreed in 2011.\n\nOn December 9, 2013, the City of Helsinki decided that all minors under the age of 18 and all pregnant mothers living in Helsinki without a valid visa or residence permit are granted the right to the same health care and at the same price as all citizens of the city. This service will be available sometime early year 2014. Volunteer doctors of Global Clinic have tried to help these people, for whom only acute care has been available. This means that the Finnish health care system is open for all people coming outside of the European Union. The service covers special child health care, maternity clinics and specialist medical care etc. practically for free. It is still unclear if this will increase so called health care tourism, because all you have to do is come to Helsinki as a tourist and let the visa expire.\n\nThe Global Clinic in Turku offers health care for all undocumented immigrants for free.\n\nBritish NHS patients have been offered treatment in France to reduce waiting lists for hip, knee and cataract surgery since 2002. France is a popular tourist destination but also ranked the world's leading health care system by the World Health Organization. European Court of Justice said that National Health Service (England) has to pay back British patients.\n\nThe number of patients is growing, and in 2016, France scored # 7 in the Medical Tourism Index.\n\nSerbia has a variety of clinics catering to medical tourists in areas of cosmetic surgery, dental care, fertility treatment and weight loss procedures. The country is also a major international hub for gender reassignment surgery.\n\nThe cost of medical treatments in Turkey is quite affordable compared to Western European countries. Therefore, thousands of people each year travel Turkey for their medical treatments. Turkey is especially becoming a hub for hair transplant surgery. In February 2018 it was reported that the country was the worst place for botched plastic surgery operations on British people with Dr Mehmet Kaya of Marmaris singled out for criticism. The president of the British Association of Aesthetic Plastic Surgeons said operations were performed on people who were not appropriate for surgery, and that unscrupulous practitioners have endangered their health for profit.\n\nThe National Health Service is publicly owned. It attracts medical tourism principally to specialist centres in London. Some private hospitals and clinics in the United Kingdom are medical tourism destinations. Very few UK private hospitals have gone through independent international accreditation (they have the mandatory registration with the UK's watchdog, the Care Quality Commission), so they have not as yet measured themselves against the best clinics and hospitals elsewhere in the world.\n\nIt is alleged that health tourists in the UK often target the NHS for its free-at-the-point-of-care treatment, allegedly costing the NHS up to £200 million. A study in 2013 concluded that the UK was a net exporter of medical tourists, with 63,000 UK residents travelling abroad for treatment and about 52,000 patients getting treatment in UK. Medical tourists treated as private patients by NHS trusts are more profitable than UK private patients, yielding close to a quarter of the revenue from only 7% of volume of cases. UK dental patients largely go to Hungary and Poland. Fertility tourists mostly travel to Eastern Europe, Cyprus and Spain.\n\nIn the summer of 2015 immigration officers from the Border Force were stationed in St George's University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust to train staff to identify \"potentially chargeable patients\". In October 2016 the trust announced that it planned to require photo identity papers or proof of their right to remain in the UK such as asylum status or a visa for pregnant women. Those not able to provide satisfactory documents would be sent to the trust's overseas patient team \"for specialist document screening, in liaison with the UK Border Agency and the Home Office.” It was estimated that £4.6 million a year was spent on care for ineligible patients. A pilot scheme to check whether patients were entitled to free NHS care in 18 NHS trusts, 11 in London, for two months in 2017 asked 8,894 people for two forms of ID prior to non-emergency care. Only 50 were not eligible for free NHS treatment. Campaigners claimed this was “part of the Government’s hostile environment policy”, and that in Newham hospital \"you will see huge signs saying you may not be eligible for free NHS treatment\".\n\nSee also Immigration health surcharge\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12760089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12760089", "title": "Oh, God! Book II", "text": "Oh, God! Book II\n\nOh, God! Book II is a 1980 American comedy film and a sequel to the 1977 film \"Oh, God!\". It was directed by Gilbert Cates, and stars George Burns, Suzanne Pleshette, David Birney and Louanne Sirota. Joyce Brothers and Hugh Downs also made cameo appearances in the film.\n\n\"Oh, God! Book II\" was followed by \"Oh, God! You Devil\" in 1984. Burns was the only cast member who appeared in more than one of the films.\n\nIn this sequel, God asks the help of 11-year-old Tracy Richards (Louanne Sirota) to help promote Himself. Tracy creates the slogan \"Think God\" and soon has her friends spreading the message by posters, graffiti and other ways. But Tracy's parents and psychiatrists think the young girl is just insane. God is the only one that can straighten out the situation. One of the memorable scenes showed God riding a motorcycle, with Tracy riding in the sidecar, where there were scenes that showed nobody on the motorcycle, which baffled the two policemen.\n\n\nAs of 2018, this film has a 50% rating on Rotten Tomatoes, based on six reviews with an average rating of 5.1/10. \n\n"}
{"id": "49425554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49425554", "title": "Pinglak", "text": "Pinglak\n\nPinglak is an epic character in Panchatantra. The lion is metaphorically called as Pinglak. It is hypothesis and the story is used to compare the real moral and relevant at present also. \"Panchatantra\", a collection of stories which depict animals in human situations (see anthropomorphism, Talking animals in fiction). In each of the stories every animal has a \"personality\" and each story ends in a moral.\nThe first chapter is Mitrabheda, which means betrayal of friends. This story is about a lion and a bull who became friends. Somehow, a dispute occurred between them and they both fought. Finally, one of them died.\n\nPinglak is a lion in the story. Sanjeewak was a bull who, because of his incapability’s and illness was discarded by his master and was left alone in a jungle, where he sat on the bank of Yamuna river and grew stronger. Once, the king of the jungle, the lion named Pinglak came near the bank of river to quench his thirst, but when he listened to the threatening sound of Sanjeewak, he hidden himself under a tree. The lion had two cunning jackal ministers named Karkat and Damnak. When they saw lion threatened, Damnak went to Sanjeewak and somehow managed to bring friendship between Pinglak and Sanjeewak. The lion indulged so deeply in the friendship that he left his entire kingship. When all the animals in the jungle felt unsecured due to this, then the jackals again managed to create differences between Pinglak and Sanjeewak. And finally in a fight between the lion and the bull, the bull gets killed. These characters are in story of * \"Mitra-bheda\": The Separation of Friends (The Lion and the Bull) is one of the five books. Its original Indian version is as under;-\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58754268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58754268", "title": "Prize for Military History", "text": "Prize for Military History\n\nPrize for Military History (\"Förderpreis für Militärgeschichte und Militärtechnikgeschichte\") is an award recognising achievements in the fields of military history and history of military technology. The prize is bestowed by the German Ministry of Defence every two years.\n\nFrom 1992 to 2012, the prize was awarded under the name Werner Hahlweg Prize. From 1969 until his retirement in 1978, the German historian (1912–1989) held a professorship in Military History and Military Sciences at the University of Münster. In his will, he bequeathed funds to go towards a science award for military history. The prize was administered by the Federal Office of Defense Technology and Procurement in Koblenz (now Federal Office of Bundeswehr Equipment, Information Technology and In-Service Support, part of the German Ministry of Defence). After it had become known in 2012 that the prize's namesake, Hahlweg, had joined the SS in June 1933 and the Nazi Party in 1936, the Ministry of Defence decided to suspend the prize. It was reinstituted in 2017 under a new name and continues to be awarded every two years.\n\nAs of 2018, the advisory board includes Michael Epkenhans (Center for Military History and Social Sciences of the Bundeswehr), (University of Göttingen), (Institute of Contemporary History (Munich)), and Brendan Simms (Oxford University), among others. It is chaired by the historian Sönke Neitzel (University of Potsdam).\n\n"}
{"id": "51239843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51239843", "title": "Pythagoras Award", "text": "Pythagoras Award\n\nThe Pythagoras Award, or The Pythagoras Prize, or The Pitagor Prize (named after Pythagoras - a Greek philosopher, mathematician and scientist, Bulgarian: Награда Питагор), established in 2009, is an award given annually to Bulgarian nationals by the Ministry of Science and Education of Bulgaria in recognition for outstanding scientific achievements. \n\nThe Pythagoras Prizes are the most prestigious Scientific awards in Bulgaria, frequently referred as the Bulgarian Nobel Prizes. There are several categories each with its own award. The Pythagoras statuettes symbolize The Third Eye which provides perception beyond ordinary sight. The statuettes are designed by the famous Bulgarian sculptor Georgi Chapkanov.\n\n1. Pythagoras Grand Prize for Seminal Contribution to Advancement of Science\n\n2. Pythagoras Grand Prize for Principal Investigator of International Synergy Project\n\n3. Pythagoras Grand Prize for Young Scientist\n\n4. Pythagoras Prize for Distinguished Scientist in Natural Science and Engineering\n\n5. Pythagoras Prize for Distinguished Scientist in Physiology and Medicine\n\n6. Pythagoras Prize for Distinguished Scientist in Humanities and Social Science\n\n7. Pythagoras Prize for Bulgarian Scientist abroad for Seminal Contribution to Science\n\n8. Pythagoras Prize for Scientific Team with Successful Commercialization of Scientific Results\n\n9. Pythagoras Prize for Scientific Book\n\n10. Pythagoras Prize for Company with the Largest Endowment to Science\n\nYear 2016 \n\nProf. Elka Bakalova\n\nProf. Peter Kralchevski\n\nDr. Antonia Toncheva\n\nProf. Vladimir Bozhinov\n\nProf. Irini Doichinova\n\nProf. Ivaylo Turnev\n\nProf. Veselin Petrov\n\nDr. Aleksander Kumurdzhiev\n\nProf. Nikolay Nihrizov\n\nDr. Milen Vrabevski\n\nProf. Tenio Popmintchev\nYear 2014\n\nProf. Plamen Ivanov\n"}
{"id": "9496135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9496135", "title": "Robert C. Byrd Honors Scholarship Program", "text": "Robert C. Byrd Honors Scholarship Program\n\nThe Robert C. Byrd Honors Scholarship Program was a federally funded and state-administered merit-based scholarship program in the United States.\n\nIt was designed to recognize exceptionally able high school seniors who showed promise of continued excellence in postsecondary education. The United States Department of Education's Office of Postsecondary Education awarded funds to state education agencies, which awarded scholarships (also known as Byrd Honors Scholarships) to eligible applicants. Students received scholarship funds which were to go towards college expenses.\n\nThe Byrd Honors Scholarships were established in 1985, providing $1,500 nonrenewable scholarships to eligible students. In 1993, the program was expanded to allow students who successfully completed their first year of college to reapply for stipends for the following three years. This brought the scholarship to its final value of $6,000 over four years. To pay for the over 27,000 scholars supported by the program, appropriations for the program were nearly $40,000,000 annually.\n\nFunding for the scholarship was eliminated for the 2011-2012 school year. As a result, new awards are not being given for that year, and payments for returning students will not be distributed.\n\nEach state set the criteria for awarding the Byrd Honors Scholarships in addition to federal requirements. In any case, all applicants were to be high school graduates who:\n"}
{"id": "9461017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9461017", "title": "Schwarze Filmschaffende in Deutschland", "text": "Schwarze Filmschaffende in Deutschland\n\nSFD - Schwarze Filmschaffende in Deutschland (Black Artists in German Film) is a professional association based in Berlin, Germany for directors, producers, screenwriters, actors and actresses who are Afro-Germans or of African origin and living in Germany. \n\nIt was founded in the summer of 2006 and aims to foster a more diverse representation of the lives of black people in German film and television.\nThe founding members of SFD are writers Anne Benza-Madingou and Phillippa Ebénéi, director Winta Yohannes, producer Nataly Kudiabor and Otu Tetteh, and actresses Carol Campbell, Araba Walton, Nisma Cherrat, Ernest Allan Hausmann and Aloysius Itoka. Carol Campbell is the 1. chairperson of SFD.\n\nDuring the official programme of the Berlinale 2007 the SFD presented a series of six short films called \"NEUE BILDER (New Perspectives)\" by Afro-Germans and black filmmakers living in Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "14901469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14901469", "title": "Skull Fang", "text": "Skull Fang\n\nSkull Fang, known in Japan as is a 1996 vertical-scrolling shoot 'em up arcade game developed and published by Data East. \"Skull Fang\" is the third and final entry in a loose trilogy of games beginning with the 1989 \"\".\n\n\"Skull Fang\" is similar to the series' first \"Vapor Trail\". Players choose one of four jets set among the flying aircraft carrier Skull Fang, as well as a pilot to fly the jet and attack enemy squadrons and battalions worldwide.\n\n\n\nThe weapon pick-ups include the following.\n\n\nPlayers also can pick up a weapon attachment that increases weapon strength and ability depending on the jet known as the S-Unit. The S-Unit can charge its strength and ultimately change its attack pattern when the players use the manual five-speed option whereupon reaching the jet's highest gear, the weapon will temporarily change to a homing weapon known as H-Unit mode. However, the S-Unit attachment can be removed and thus detonated once players hit the Bomb button.\n\nSeven years have passed since the events of \"\" in 2001, where the militant/terrorist organization Ragnarok was quelled. Though Oceania and the United States were successful in their efforts, a significant number of mechs had secretly escaped destruction and after the seven years of silence finally reappear. The strongest of the mechs appears and begins decimating American cities at random, signifying the Ragnarok's latest assault on society.\n\nDuring those seven years however, an air force unit based on the success of Operation Vapor Trail had been assembled; known as the Skull Fang squadron, the unit was founded in case the organization ever re-appeared. Consisting of four talented pilots whose personal backgrounds and information are withheld from each other, the team is sent to deal with the latest threat and to protect the terrorist's suspected target, the headquarters that house their unit leaders.\n\n\"Skull Fang\" was later ported by both Data East and Aisystem Tokyo to the Sega Saturn in 1997. This port adds several new features, such as a trial mode, a boss rush mode, a tutorial video and an additional speed mode which has two settings rather than five. Occasionally, the sprites suffer from flickering. Some arranged versions of songs from \"Vapor Trail\" are also included in the game disc as redbook audio.\n\nOn February 26, 1996, Pony Canyon and Scitron Label added the arcade version's background music of \"Skull Fang\" with the background music of another Data East MLC System title, \"Avengers in Galactic Storm\", both into an album titled \"Skull Fang / Avengers in Galactic Storm\", which was released exclusively in Japan. This version also includes two exclusive arranged versions of the songs \"Skull Fang\" (Stage 1 theme) and \"Over Boost\" (Stage 2 Boss theme). On July 21, 2010, TEAM Entertainment added the background music of the arcade version with the background music of the first two \"Kuuga\" games, plus three other Data East shooting games (\"Darwin 4078\", \"\", and \"\"), into one album titled \"Data East Retro Game Music Collection\", which was distributed exclusively in Japan by Sony Music Distribution.\n\nA \"Next Generation\" reviewer, while acknowledging that the chase mode and back and side thrusts are variations in the shooter formula, concluded \"Skull Fang\" to be \"a shooter in the most generic sense.\" He scored the arcade version two out of five stars.\n\nIn an article on the Saturn port, \"Sega Saturn Magazine\" called \"Skull Fang\" \"a classic example of over hyped nonsense\", and explained that \"With two players on screen at once, multiple power-ups and even an original arcade mode (requiring you to turn your TV on its side, Raiden-style), \"Skull Fang\" begins to sound fairly impressive. However ... appaling slowdown, unimpressive power-ups and nagging pauses during gameplay are all good reasons for Saturn owners to steer well clear.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "13111724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13111724", "title": "Speech-generating device", "text": "Speech-generating device\n\nSpeech-generating devices (SGDs), also known as voice output communication aids, are electronic augmentative and alternative communication (AAC) systems used to supplement or replace speech or writing for individuals with severe speech impairments, enabling them to verbally communicate. SGDs are important for people who have limited means of interacting verbally, as they allow individuals to become active participants in communication interactions. They are particularly helpful for patients suffering from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) but recently have been used for children with predicted speech deficiencies.\n\nThere are several input and display methods for users of varying abilities to make use of SGDs. Some SGDs have multiple pages of symbols to accommodate a large number of utterances, and thus only a portion of the symbols available are visible at any one time, with the communicator navigating the various pages. Speech-generating devices can produce electronic voice output by using digitized recordings of natural speech or through speech synthesis—which may carry less emotional information but can permit the user to speak novel messages.\n\nThe content, organization, and updating of the vocabulary on an SGD is influenced by a number of factors, such at the user's needs and the contexts that the device will be used in. The development of techniques to improve the available vocabulary and rate of speech production is an active research area. Vocabulary items should be of high interest to the user, be frequently applicable, have a range of meanings, and be pragmatic in functionality.\n\nThere are multiple methods of accessing messages on devices: directly or indirectly, or using specialized access devices—although the specific access method will depend on the skills and abilities of the user. SGD output is typically much slower than speech, although rate enhancement strategies can increase the user's rate of output, resulting in enhanced efficiency of communication.\n\nThe first known SGD was prototyped in the mid-1970s, and rapid progress in hardware and software development has meant that SGD capabilities can now be integrated into devices like smartphones. Notable users of SGDs include Stephen Hawking, Roger Ebert, Tony Proudfoot, and Pete Frates (founder of the ALS ice bucket challenge).\n\nSpeech-generating systems may be dedicated devices developed solely for AAC, or non-dedicated devices such as computers running additional software to allow them to function as AAC devices.\n\nSGDs have their roots in early electronic communication aids. The first such aid was a sip-and-puff typewriter controller named the patient-operated selector mechanism (POSSUM) prototyped by Reg Maling in the United Kingdom in 1960. POSSUM scanned through a set of symbols on an illuminated display. Researchers at Delft University in the Netherlands created the lightspot operated typewriter (LOT) in 1970, which made use of small movements of the head to point a small spot of light at a matrix of characters, each equipped with a photoelectric cell. Although it was commercially unsuccessful, the LOT was well received by its users.\n\nIn 1966, Barry Romich, a freshman engineering student at Case Western Reserve University, and Ed Prentke, an engineer at Highland View Hospital in Cleveland, Ohio formed a partnership, creating the Prentke Romich Company. In 1969, the company produced its first communication device, a typing system based on a discarded Teletype machine.\n\nDuring the 1970s and early 1980s, several other companies began to emerge that have since become prominent manufacturers of SGDs. Toby Churchill founded Toby Churchill Ltd in 1973, after losing his speech following encephalitis. In the US, Dynavox (then known as Sentient Systems Technology) grew out of a student project at Carnegie-Mellon University, created in 1982 to help a young woman with cerebral palsy to communicate.\nBeginning in the 1980s, improvements in technology led to a greatly increased number, variety, and performance of commercially available communication devices, and a reduction in their size and price. Alternative methods of access such as Target Scanning (also known as eye pointing) calibrate the movement of a user's eyes to direct an SGD to produce the desired speech phase. Scanning, in which alternatives are presented to the user sequentially, became available on communication devices. Speech output possibilities included both digitized and synthesized speech.\n\nRapid progress in hardware and software development continued, including projects funded by the European Community. The first commercially available dynamic screen speech generating devices were developed in the 1990s. Software programs were developed that allowed the computer-based production of communication boards. High-tech devices have continued to become smaller and lighter, while increasing accessibility and capability; communication devices can be accessed using eye-tracking systems, perform as a computer for word-processing and Internet use, and as an environmental control device for independent access to other equipment such as TV, radio and telephones.\n\nNotable individuals who have used AAC devices include Stephen Hawking, Roger Ebert Tony Proudfoot, and Pete Frates. Hawking was unable to speak due to a combination of severe disabilities caused by ALS, and an emergency tracheotomy. He has come to be associated with the unique voice of his particular synthesis equipment. In the past 20 or so years SGD have gained popularity amongst young children with speech deficiencies, such as autism, Down syndrome, and predicted brain damage due to surgery.\n\nStarting in the early 2000s, specialist saw the benefit of using SGDs not only for adults but for children, as well. Neuro-linguists found that SGDs were just as effective in helping children who were at risk for temporary language deficits after undergoing brain surgery as it is for patients with ALS. In particular, digitized SGDs have been used as communication aids for pediatric patients during the recovery process.\n\nThere are many methods of accessing messages on devices: directly, indirectly, and with specialized access devices. Direct access methods involve physical contact with the system, by using a keyboard or a touch screen. Users accessing SGDs indirectly and through specialized devices must manipulate an object in order to access the system, such as maneuvering a joystick, head mouse, optical head pointer, light pointer, infrared pointer, or switch access scanner.\n\nThe specific access method will depend on the skills and abilities of the user. With direct selection a body part, pointer, adapted mouse, joystick, or eye tracking could be used, whereas switch access scanning is often used for indirect selection. Unlike direct selection (e.g., typing on a keyboard, touching a screen), users of Target Scanning can only make selections when the scanning indicator (or cursor) of the electronic device is on the desired choice. Those who are unable to point typically calibrate their eyes to use eye gaze as a way to point and blocking as a way to select desired words and phrases. The speed and pattern of scanning, as well as the way items are selected, are individualized to the physical, visual and cognitive capabilities of the user.\n\nAugmentative and alternative communication is typically much slower than speech, with users generally producing 8–10 words per minute. Rate enhancement strategies can increase the user's rate of output to around 12–15 words per minute, and as a result enhance the efficiency of communication.\n\nIn any given SGD there may be a large number of vocal expressions that facilitate efficient and effective communication, including greetings, expressing desires, and asking questions. Some SGDs have multiple pages of symbols to accommodate a large number of vocal expressions, and thus only a portion of the symbols available are visible at any one time, with the communicator navigating the various pages. Speech-generating devices generally display a set of selections either using a dynamically changing screen, or a fixed display.\n\nThere are two main options for increasing the rate of communication for an SGD: encoding and prediction.\n\nEncoding permits a user to produce a word, sentence or phrase using only one or two activations of their SGD. Iconic encoding strategies such as Semantic compaction combine sequences of icons (picture symbols) to produce words or phrases. In numeric, alpha-numeric, and letter encoding (also known as Abbreviation-Expansion), words and sentences are coded as sequences of letters and numbers. For example, typing \"HH\" or \"G1\" (for Greeting 1) may retrieve \"Hello, how are you?\".\n\nPrediction is a rate enhancement strategy in which the SGD attempts to reduce the number of keystrokes used by predicting the word or phrase being written by the user. The user can then select the correct prediction without needing to write the entire word. Word prediction software may determine the choices to be offered based on their frequency in language, association with other words, past choices of the user, or grammatical suitability. However, users have been shown to produce more words per minute (using a scanning interface) with a static keyboard layout than with a predictive grid layout, suggesting that the cognitive overhead of reviewing a new arrangement cancels out the benefits of the predictive layout when using a scanning interface.\n\nSome systems, such as Auditory Sciences' Interact-Voice device, combine Encoding and Prediction into the same system. For example, typing \"HMF\" can be an encoded shortcut for \"Can you help me find ____\" and then the prediction capabilities help the user complete the sentence, such as \"Can you help me find my glasses?\" or \"Can you help me find my car keys?\".\n\nAnother approach to rate-enhancement is Dasher, which uses language models and arithmetic coding to present alternative letter targets on the screen with size relative to their likelihood given the history.\n\nThe rate of words produced can depend greatly on the conceptual level of the system: the TALK system, which allows users to choose between large numbers of sentence-level utterances, demonstrated output rates in excess of 60 wpm.\n\nFixed display devices refer to those in which the symbols and items are \"fixed\" in a particular format; some sources refer to these as \"static\" displays. Such display devices have a simpler learning curve than some other devices.\n\nFixed display devices replicate the typical arrangement of low-tech AAC devices (low-tech is defined as those devices that do not need batteries, electricity or electronics), like communication boards. They share some of disadvantages; for example they are typically restricted to a limited number of symbols and hence messages. It is important to note that with technological advances made in the twenty-first century, fixed-display SGDs are not commonly used anymore.\n\nDynamic displays devices are usually also touchscreen devices. They typically generate electronically produced visual symbols that, when pressed, change the set of selections that is displayed. The user can change the symbols available using page links to navigate to appropriate pages of vocabulary and messages. \n\nThe \"home\" page of a dynamic display device may show symbols related to many different contexts or conversational topics. Pressing any one of these symbols may open a different screen with messages related to that topic. For example, when watching a volleyball game, a user may press the \"sport\" symbol to open a page with messages relating to sport, then press the symbol showing a scoreboard to utter the phrase \"What's the score?\".\n\nAdvantages of dynamic display devices include the availability of a much larger vocabulary, and the ability to see the sentence under construction A further advantage of dynamic display devices is that the underlying operating system is capable of providing options for multiple communication channels, including cell phone, text messaging and e-mail. Work by Linköping University has shown that such email writing practices allowed children who were SGD users to develop new social skills and increase their social participation.\n\nLow cost systems can also include a keyboard and audio speaker combination without a dynamic display or visual screen. This type of keyboard sends typed text direct to an audio speaker. It can permit any phrase to be spoken without the need for a visual screen that is not always required. One simple benefit is that a talking keyboard, when used with a standard telephone or speakerphone can enable a voice impaired individual have 2 way conversation over a telephone.\n\nThe output of a SGD may be digitized and/or synthesized: digitized systems play directly recorded words or phrases while synthesized speech uses text-to-speech software that can carry less emotional information but permits the user to speak novel messages by typing new words. Today, individuals use a combination of recorded messages and text-to-speech techniques on their SGDs. However, some devices are limited to only one type of output.\n\nWords, phrases or entire messages can be digitised and stored onto the device for playback to be activated by the user. This process is formally known as Voice Banking. Advantages of recorded speech include that it (a) provides natural prosody and speech naturalness for the listener (e.g., person of the same age and gender as the AAC user can be selected to record the messages), and (b) it provides for additional sounds that may be important for the user such as laughing or whistling. Moreover, Digitized SGDs is that they provide a degree of normalcy both for the patient and for their families when they lose their ability to speak on their own.\n\nA major disadvantage of using only recorded speech is that users are unable to produce novel messages; they are limited to the messages pre-recorded into the device. Depending on the device, there may be a limit to the length of the recordings.\n\nSGDs that use synthesized speech apply the phonetic rules of the language to translate the user’s message into voice output (speech synthesis). Users have the freedom to create novel words and messages and are not limited to those that have been pre-recorded on their device by others.\n\nSmartphones and computers have increased the use of synthesized speech devices through the creation of apps that allow the user to select from a list of phrases or messages to be spoken in the voice and language that the user has chosen. Apps such as SpeakIt! or Assistive Express for iPhone provide a cheap way to use a speech-generating device without having to visit a doctor's office or learn to use specialized machinery.\n\nSynthesized SGDs may allow multiple methods of message creation that can be used individually or in combination: messages can be created from letters, words, phrases, sentences, pictures, or symbols. With synthesized speech there is virtually unlimited storage capacity for messages with few demands on memory space.\n\nSynthesized speech engines are available in many languages, and the engine's parameters, such as speech rate, pitch range, gender, stress patterns, pauses, and pronunciation exceptions can be manipulated by the user.\n\nThe selection set of a SGD is the set of all messages, symbols and codes that are available to a person using that device. The content, organisation, and updating of this selection set are areas of active research and are influenced by a number of factors, including the user's ability, interests and age. The selection set for an AAC system may include words that the user does not know yet – they are included for the user to \"grow into\". The content installed on any given SGD may include a large number of preset pages provided by the manufacturer, with a number of additional pages produced by the user or the user's care team depending on the user's needs and the contexts that the device will be used in.\n\nResearchers Beukelman and Mirenda list a number of possible sources (such as family members, friends, teachers, and care staff) for the selection of initial content for a SGD. A range of sources is required because, in general, one individual would not have the knowledge and experience to generate all the vocal expressions needed in any given environment. For example, parents and therapists might not think to add slang terms, such as \"innit\".\n\nPrevious work has analyzed both vocabulary use of typically developing speakers and word use of AAC users to generate content for new AAC devices. Such processes work well for generating a core set of utterances or vocal expressions but are less effective in situations where a particular vocabulary is needed (for example, terms related directly to a user's interest in horse riding). The term \"fringe vocabulary\" refers to vocabulary that is specific or unique to the individual's personal interests or needs. A typical technique to develop fringe vocabulary for a device is to conduct interviews with multiple \"informants\": siblings, parents, teachers, co-workers and other involved persons.\n\nOther researchers, such as Musselwhite and St. Louis suggest that initial vocabulary items should be of high interest to the user, be frequently applicable, have a range of meanings and be pragmatic in functionality. These criteria have been widely used in the AAC field as an ecological check of SGD content.\n\nBeukelman and Mirenda emphasize that vocabulary selection also involves ongoing vocabulary maintenance; however, a difficulty in AAC is that users or their carers must program in any new utterances manually (e.g. names of new friends or personal stories) and there are no existing commercial solutions for automatically adding content. A number of research approaches have attempted to overcome this difficulty, these range from \"inferred input\", such as generating content based on a log of conversation with a user's friends and family, to data mined from the Internet to find language materials, such as the Webcrawler Project. Moreover, by making use of Lifelogging based approaches, a device's content can be changed based on events that occur to a user during their day. By accessing more of a user's data, more high-quality messages can be generated at a risk of exposing sensitive user data. For example, by making use of global positioning systems, a device's content can be changed based on geographical location.\n\nMany recently developed SGDs include performance measurement and analysis tools to help monitor the content used by an individual. This raises concerns about privacy, and some argue that the device user should be involved in the decision to monitor use in this way. Similar concerns have been raised regarding the proposals for devices with automatic content generation, and privacy is increasingly a factor in design of SGDs. As AAC devices are designed to be used in all areas of a user’s life, there are sensitive legal, social, and technical issues centred on a wide family of personal data management problems that can be found in contexts of AAC use. For example, SGDs may have to be designed so that they support the user's right to delete logs of conversations or content that has been added automatically.\n\nProgramming of Dynamic Speech Generating devices is usually done by augmentative communication specialists. Specialists are required to cater to the needs of the patients because the patients usually choose what kinds of words/ phrases they want. For example, patients use different phrases based on their age, disability, interests, etc. Therefore, content organization is extremely time consuming. Additionally, SGDs are rarely covered by health insurance companies. As a result, resources are very limited with regards to both funding and staffing. Dr. John Costello of Boston Children’s Hospital has been the driving force soliciting donations to keep these program running and well-staffed both within his hospital and in hospitals across the country.\n\n"}
{"id": "38054389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38054389", "title": "Swanson's law", "text": "Swanson's law\n\nSwanson's law is the observation that the price of solar photovoltaic modules tends to drop 20 percent for every doubling of cumulative shipped volume. At present rates, costs halve about every 10 years. It is named after Richard Swanson, the founder of SunPower Corporation, a solar panel manufacturer. \n\nSwanson's law has been compared to Moore's law, which predicts the growing computing power of processors. Crystalline silicon photovoltaic cell prices have fallen from $76.67 per watt in 1977 to $0.36 per watt in 2014. Plotting the module price (in $/Wp) versus time shows a dropping by 10% per year. \n\nThe term \"Swanson's Law\" appears to have originated with an article in \"The Economist\" published in late 2012. It is a misnomer in that Swanson was not the first person to make this observation. The method used by Swanson is more commonly referred to as \"learning curve\" or \"experience curve\" analysis. It was first developed and applied to the aeronautics industry in the mid-1930s, and saw its first widespread application to the photovoltaics industry in the mid-1990s.\n\n"}
{"id": "31333334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31333334", "title": "Terror (politics)", "text": "Terror (politics)\n\nTerror, is from the French \"terreur\", from Latin \"terror\" meaning \"great fear\", a noun derived from the Latin verb \"terrere\" meaning \"to frighten\", is a policy of political repression and violence intended to subdue political opposition. The term was first used for the Reign of Terror during the French Revolution. Modern instances of terror include red terror or white terror.\n\nBefore the late twentieth century, the term \"terrorism\" in the English language was often used interchangeably with \"\"terror\".\" Some contemporary writers use terrorism to refer to acts by groups with a limited political base or parties on the weaker side in asymmetric warfare and terror to acts by governments and law enforcement officials, usually within the legal framework of the state. Others consider state terror to be a specific type of terrorism.\n\nRevolutionary terror, also known as \"Red terror\", was often used by revolutionary governments to suppress counterrevolutionaries. The first example was the Reign of Terror during the French Revolution in 1794. Other notable examples include the \"Red Terror\" in Soviet Russia in 1918–1922, as well as simultaneous campaigns in the Hungarian Soviet Republic and in Finland. In China Red Terror in 1966 and 1967 started the Cultural revolution. \n\nCounterrevolutionary terror is usually referred to as \"white terror\". Notable examples are the terror campaigns in France (1794–1795), in Russia (1917–20), in Hungary (1919–1921), and in Spain. Modern examples of counter-revolutionary terror include Operation Condor in South America.\n\nDavid Forte states that the primary difference between terror and terrorism is that while terror can be neutrally evil (i.e., random violence committed by robbers, rapists, and even military personnel), terrorism has the additional political or moral dimension, being the systematized use of randomly focused violence by organized groups against non-combatants to effect a political objective.\n\nHowever Charles Tilly defines \"terror\" as a political strategy defined as \"asymmetrical deployment of threats and violence against enemies using means that fall outside the forms of political struggle routinely operating within some current regime,\" and therefore ranges from:\n\nAccording to Tilly, the term \"terror\" spans across a wide range of human cruelties, from Stalin's use of executions to clandestine attacks by groups like the Basque separatists and the IRA and even ethnic cleansing and genocide\n\n"}
{"id": "1462414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1462414", "title": "The Clan of the Cave Bear (film)", "text": "The Clan of the Cave Bear (film)\n\nThe Clan of the Cave Bear is a 1986 American adventure film directed by Michael Chapman and based on the book of the same name by Jean M. Auel. The film stars Daryl Hannah, Pamela Reed, James Remar, and Thomas G. Waites.\n\nDialogue is conducted mostly through a form of sign language which is translated for the audience with subtitles.\n\nA young Cro-Magnon woman named Ayla (Daryl Hannah) is separated from her family and orphaned during an earthquake. She is found by a group of Neanderthals and raised as one of their own.\n\nIt was filmed in the Regional District of Okanagan-Similkameen, a precursor to the many Hollywood productions that would film in Canada soon after (see Hollywood North and Cinema of Canada). The score was composed by Alan Silvestri. The movie is one of Bart the Bear's earliest roles. The muskox hunt was filmed just outside Hughenden, Alberta.\n\nBecause the film cost US $15 million to produce and brought in only US $1.9 million domestically, it is considered a box office flop. The film was nominated for an Oscar in 1987 for Best Makeup (Michael Westmore and Michèle Burke). The film currently holds a 10% rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 10 reviews. However, \"The Encyclopedia of Fantasy\" claims: \"It is hard to see why \"TCOTCB\" has drawn such critical contempt, unless for its tacit Feminism: although the narration is overexpository and the equation of mental versatility with leggy blonde Cro-Magnons, as opposed to shabby Neanderthals, is a cliché, the movie is beautifully shot, well scripted and finely acted.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2990439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2990439", "title": "The Great God Pan", "text": "The Great God Pan\n\nThe Great God Pan is a horror and fantasy novella by Welsh writer Arthur Machen. Machen was inspired to write \"The Great God Pan\" by his experiences at the ruins of a pagan temple in Wales. What would become the first chapter of the novella was published in the magazine \"The Whirlwind\" in 1890. Machen later extended \"The Great God Pan\" and it was published as a book alongside another story, \"The Inmost Light\", in 1894. The novella begins with an experiment to allow a woman named Mary to see the supernatural world. This is followed by an account of a series of mysterious happenings and deaths over many years surrounding a woman named Helen Vaughan. At the end, the heroes confront Helen and force her to kill herself. She undergoes a series of supernatural transformations before dying and she is revealed to be the child of Mary and the god Pan.\n\nOn publication, it was widely denounced by the press as degenerate and horrific because of its implied sexual content, and the novella hurt Machen's reputation as an author. Beginning in the 1920s, Machen's work was critically re-evaluated and \"The Great God Pan\" has since garnered a reputation as a classic of horror. Literary critics have noted the influence of other nineteenth-century authors on \"The Great God Pan\" and offered differing opinions on whether or not it can be considered an example of Gothic fiction or science fiction. The novella has influenced the work of horror writers such as Bram Stoker, H. P. Lovecraft, and Stephen King, and has been adapted for the stage twice.\n\nClarke agrees, somewhat unwillingly, to bear witness to a strange experiment performed by his friend, Dr. Raymond. The ultimate goal of the doctor is to open the mind of someone so that he may experience the spiritual world, an experience he notes the ancients called \"seeing the great god Pan\". He performs the experiment, which involves minor brain surgery, on a young woman named Mary. She awakens from the operation awed and terrified but quickly becomes \"a hopeless idiot\".\n\nYears later, Clarke learns of a beautiful but sinister girl named Helen Vaughan, who is reported to have caused a series of mysterious happenings in her town. She spends much of her time in the woods near her house, and takes other children on prolonged twilight rambles in the countryside that disturb the parents of the town. One day, a young boy stumbles across her \"playing on the grass with a 'strange naked man,\"; the boy becomes hysterical and later, after seeing a Roman statue of a satyr's head, becomes permanently feeble-minded. Helen also forms an unusually close friendship with a neighbour girl, Rachel, whom she leads several times into the woods. On one occasion Rachel returns home distraught, half-naked and rambling. Shortly after explaining to her mother what happened to her (never revealed in the story), Rachel returns to the woods and disappears forever. Clarke relates these events in a book he is writing entitled \"Memoirs to Prove the Existence of the Devil\".\n\nYears later, Villiers happens across his old friend Herbert, who has become a vagrant since they last met. When asked how he has fallen so low, Herbert replies that he has been \"corrupted body and soul\" by his wife. After some investigation with Clarke and another character, Austin, it is revealed that Helen was Herbert's wife, and that a well-to-do man killed himself after seeing something that terrified him in Herbert and Helen's home. Herbert is later found dead.\n\nHelen disappears for some time; according to rumor, she spent the time taking part in disturbing orgies somewhere in the Americas. She eventually returns to London under the pseudonym Mrs. Beaumont. Soon after, a group of stable, happy men in London commit suicide; the last person known to have been in the presence of each of them was Mrs. Beaumont, whom they are implied to have slept with. Villiers and Clarke, each learning of Mrs. Beaumont's true identity, band together and confront Helen in her house with a noose. They tell her that she must kill herself, or they will expose her. Helen has a very abnormal death, transforming between human and beast, male and female, and dividing and reuniting, before turning into a jelly-like substance and finally dying.\n\nThis is followed by a fragment of a document about the remains of a pillar honoring the Roman god Nodens. The inscription on the column reads \"To the great god Nodens (the god of the Great Deep or Abyss), Flavius Senilis has erected this pillar on account of the marriage which he saw beneath the shade.\" The document says that historians are puzzled as to what the inscription refers to. The novella ends with a fragment of a letter from Dr. Raymond to Clarke, which reveals that Helen was the child of Mary, who died shortly after her daughter's birth. In the letter, Raymond informs Clarke that Mary became pregnant after his experiment caused her to see the god Pan, implying that Pan fathered Helen.\n\nMachen's lifelong fascination with occultism began after he read an article on alchemy in an edition of Charles Dickens's periodical \"Household Words\" belonging to his father, a clergyman. In his 1922 autobiography, \"Far Off Things\", Machen wrote that \"The Great God Pan\" was inspired by the times he visited the Usk, a Welsh river, and the Welsh towns of Caerleon on the Usk and Caerwent as a boy; all of these places had been settled by the Romans. He wrote that \"strange relics\" were frequently found at Caerwent from the ruined temple of \"Nodens, god of the depths\". Machen visited the temple, which he described as a \"lonely house between the dark forest and the silver river\". \n\nIn writing the novella, he tried to \"pass on the vague, indefinable sense of awe and mystery and terror that [he] had received\" while visiting those ruins. Machen felt that he had \"transliterated [the feeling] clumsily\" in \"The Great God Pan\", elaborating: \"I translated awe, at worst awfulness, into evil; again, I say, one dreams with fire and works in clay.\" Dennis Denisoff said that Machen's decision to make Helen Vaughan the child of a Welsh woman and a pagan figure \"parallels Machen's own authorial self-identity as one arising from not only his Welsh ancestry but also pagan myth.\"\n\nWhat is now the first chapter of the novella was published in 1890 in a magazine called \"The Whirlwind\", while what is now the third chapter of the book was published in the same magazine the following year as a standalone short story called \"The City of Resurrections\". Machen only viewed the two works as connected after they were finished. Once he decided the two stories were connected, Machen wrote the rest of \"The Great God Pan\" in a single evening save for its final chapter. Machen did not think of an ending for the tale for months, and in that time believed that the novella would remain unfinished forever. The last chapter was completed in June 1891. Machen sent the novella to the publisher Blackwood, who rejected it, deeming it a clever story that \"shrink[s]...from the central idea.\" It was accepted by John Lane and published in 1894. When published as a book, \"The Great God Pan\" was accompanied by another Machen tale called \"The Inmost Light\" which also features a mad scientist and elements of science fiction. The book's cover was illustrated by Aubrey Beardsley.\n\nJoe Sommerlad of \"The Independent\" views \"The Great God Pan\" as a work of Gothic horror. According to \"The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction\", the story is \"typical of Victorian [science fiction] horror at about the time [science fiction] was beginning to shed its Gothic elements into a separate Horror/fantasy genre.\" Aaron Worth writes that \"The Great God Pan\" superficially resembles science fiction due to its depiction of Dr. Raymond as a mad scientist, but it cannot be seen as an example of the genre as it posits that occultism is superior to science. The novella has been classified as Decadent literature as well, as it features hallmarks of the genre such as \"occultism, paganism, non-mainstream eroticism, sexual diversity, the \"femme fatale\", violent and strange deaths, and the simultaneous investment in and disavowal of bourgeois identities.\" \"Pan\" has also been described as fantasy literature, Modernist literature, and a cautionary tale against men mistreating women the way that Raymond mistreated Mary.\n\nPan was an ancient Greek god primarily worshipped in Arcadia who was associated with shepherds and their flocks, and with nature. He was believed to lurk in caves, mountains, and other lonely, isolated locations. In some stories, he inflicted his enemies with sudden terror (i.e. \"panic\"). The phrase, \"the great God Pan\" comes from an ancient Greek folktale recorded in Plutarch's \"De defectu oraculorum\" (\"On the Decline of Oracles\"), which claims that a Greek sailor near the island of Paxi during the reign of Emperor Tiberius (ruled 14–37 AD) heard a voice cry out, \"When you are arrived at Palodes, take care to make it known that the great God Pan is dead.\" Early Christian commentaries suggested that this event occurred at the same time as the death of Christ and that the \"death\" of Pan represented the transition from a pagan to a Christian world.\n\nThis story had particular resonance with Victorian literary audiences. In 1844, Elizabeth Barrett Browning wrote her poem \"The Dead Pan\", an adaption of Plutarch's story which insisted that proper Christian literature should abandon Greek mythology, with each stanza ending in the words \"Pan, Pan is dead.\" As a member of the Decadent movement, Machen sought to subvert traditional themes and transgress literary boundaries, an agenda which made Pan a particularly appealing figure. The title of \"The Great God Pan\" appears to have been specifically derived from the Browning's later poem \"A Musical Instrument\" (1862), in which the first line of every stanza ends with the words \"the great god Pan\". Machen's use of Pan in the novella may have also been influenced by Robert Louis Stevenson's essay \"\" (1878) and Algernon Charles Swinburne's poem \"\" (1894), in which Pan is portrayed as the \"emblem of the delicious combination of ecstasy and terror.\"\n\nIn a review of the novella for \"Black Gate\", Matthew David Surridge hypothesized that Machen took inspiration from Mary Shelley's \"Frankenstein\" (1818) in his portrayal of Dr. Raymond as a mad scientist akin to Victor Frankenstein. The works of Robert Louis Stevenson, especially his 1886 novella \"Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde\", were among Machen's most significant influences when writing \"The Great God Pan\". Critic John Gawsworth also sees Machen's novella as reminiscent of the horror stories of Edgar Allan Poe and Sheridan Le Fanu. Aaron Worth noted similitude between the death of Helen Vaughan and the theories of alchemist Thomas Vaughan, who is the character's namesake and Helen's disintegration recalls the alchemical concept of the prima materia. John C. Tibbetts observes similarities between Helen Vaughan and Ayesha, the sexually liberated demonic priestess from H. Rider Haggard's \"\" (1886). Machen wrote that several critics felt that Joris-Karl Huysmans's novels \"À rebours\" (1884) and \"Là-bas\" (1891) had inspired \"The Great God Pan\", though he did not read either book until after \"Pan\" was published. Upon reading the two novels, Machen concluded that \"my critics had not read them either.\"\n\nThe novella is characteristic of a late nineteenth-century interest in paganism in general and Pan in particular that is found in the works of Florence Farr and Kenneth Grahame. According to the British scholar of modern literature Roger Luckhurst, Raymond expresses a typical Neoplatonist view of reality in which the true object of study is the revelation of a \"higher, hidden spiritual world\". He is therefore \"an occultist rather than a materialist scientist.\" Neoplatonism is also commonly regarded as the last school of pagan philosophy and Raymond's views therefore relate back to the recurring theme of the death of Pan.\n\nAuthor Theodora Goss sees \"The Great God Pan\" as equating paganism with irrationality and what Carl Jung would call the collective unconscious. \"Black Gates\" Matthew David Surridge believes that the story associates paganism with sex and femininity, while portraying Helen as a female Antichrist, a view shared by James Goho in \"Journeys into Darkness: Critical Essays on Gothic Horror\" (2014). Surridge adds \"from another perspective: [Helen] is the undoing of progress. Rather than proceeding from paganism to Christianity, as orthodox Victorian belief imagined the progress of history, she is a reversal of time, the revenge of the atavistic.\" In keeping with this idea, Surridge sees Mary's name as a reference to Mary, mother of Jesus and Helen's name as a reference to the pagan figure Helen of Troy. Goho interprets the story as Machen's warning against the abandonment of \"true religion\" and the embrace of paganism.\n\nAt one point in the novella, a Latin creed is recited: \"Et Diabolus Incarnatus Est. Et Homo Factus Est.\" (\"And the Devil was made incarnate. And was made man.\") Luckhurst identifies this as a blasphemous rewriting of the Nicene Creed, a early Christian creed which includes the line: \"By the power of the Holy Spirit he [Jesus] became incarnate from the Virgin Mary, and was made man.\" Goho writes that the portrayal of Pan in the novella draws on the mythology of Lucifer and depictions of Pan as \"the fetish for evil and suffering and the danger and dread of the wilderness,\" rather than depictions of Pan as a playful and harmless god. Surridge sees the book's references to Satan and Nodens as implying that Satan, Nodens and Pan are the same being, while Goho connects the novella to the fact that early Christians associated Pan with the devil.\n\n\"The Great God Pan\" implied sexuality caused a scandal upon its original release and hurt Machen's reputation as an author. Reviewing the novella for the magazine \"Literary News\", Richard Henry Stoddard criticised the story as \"too morbid to be the production of a healthy mind\". The art critic Harry Quilter's review of the book, titled \"The Gospel of Intensity\", and published in \"The Contemporary Review\" in June 1895, was even more harsh. Quilter declared: \"The Great God Pan' is, I have no hesitation in saying, a perfectly abominable story, in which the author has spared no endeavor to suggest loathsomeness and horror which he describes as beyond the reach of words.\" Quilter warned that Machen's books were a dangerous threat to the entire British public and that they would destroy readers' sanities and senses of morality. Quilter went on to attack the story's publisher, John Lane, as well as Machen himself: \"Why should he be allowed, for the sake of a few miserable pounds, to cast into our midst these monstrous creations of his diseased brain?\" Quilter added that works of fiction like Machen's should be unanimously condemned by literary critics and newspapers: \"If the Press was so disposed it could stamp out such art and fiction in a few months: And that disposition must be acquired, must even be enforced.\" He was particularly harsh in his denunciation of sexual ambiguity and polymorphous androgyny in the book. He expressed revulsion at Machen's description of Helen's sex changing immediately before her death and concluded his review with a comment of distaste regarding the \"nasty little naked figure of dubious sex and humanity with which Mr. Aubrey Beardsley has prefaced the story\". A positive appraisal of the novella came from Oscar Wilde, who called it \"un succès fou.\"\n\nMachen's literary reputation was re-evaluated in the 1920s and \"The Great God Pan\" has since attained the reputation of a horror masterpiece. In \"Supernatural Horror in Literature\" (1926; revised 1933), H. P. Lovecraft praised the story, saying: \"No one could begin to describe the cumulative suspense and ultimate horror with which every paragraph abounds\"; he added that \"the sensitive reader\" reaches the end with \"an appreciative shudder\". Lovecraft also noted, however, that \"melodrama is undeniably present, and coincidence is stretched to a length which appears absurd upon analysis\". Bennett Cerf described the story as a \"masterpiece\". Brian Stableford stated that \"The Great God Pan\" is \"the archetypal Decadent horror story\" and described the story as \"highly original\". Stephen King referred to it as \"one of the best horror stories ever written. Maybe the best in the English language.\" King also praised \"Pan\" for being \"more reader-friendly\" than Lovecraft's fiction. \"The Washington Post\" Elizabeth Hand deemed it \"one of the greatest supernatural tales ever written\". \"Black Gate\" Matthew David Surridge said that \"The Great God Pan\" is \"a fascinating, troubling story, and, for all its influence, not like much else than I can think of. It's not simple, and yet it's effective, more so than can easily be explained.\"\n\nSome commentary on \"The Great God Pan\" has focused on its portrayal of women. Surridge sees the novella as expressing a fear of women even though the ultimate source of horror in the story is a male deity. \"The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction\" says that Helen's \"metamorphosis...remains one of the most dramatically horrible and misogynistic in fiction\". Helen never speaks in the book; according to Victoria Margree and Bryony Randall in \"Victorian Gothic: An Edinburgh Companion\", \"The silence of the central female character is part of the text's misogyny, but also part of its narrative effect.\" Margree and Randall also view Helen's fate as a punishment for her sexual impropriety. Dennis Denisoff connects Machen's tendency to make his empowered female characters \"sexually monstrous\" to his criticisms of authors who discussed the subject of women's rights. James Machin defends Machen and \"The Great God Pan\" from charges from misogyny on the grounds that the male protagonist of Machen's story \"The Novel of the White Powder\" (1895) disintegrates in a manner reminiscent of Helen Vaughan and on the grounds that Machen married Amy Hogg, a woman who defied the sexual boundaries of her time.\n\nA pair of parodies of \"Pan\" were published in 1895 – Arthur Rickett's \"A Yellow Creeper\" and Arthur Sykes's \"The Great Pan-Demon\". Both suggest that Machen is an author of \"limited imagination,\" with the latter depicting him as a mad scientist unleashing degenerate literature on an unsuspecting public. \"The Great God Pan\" was brought to the stage in 2008 by the WildClaw Theatre Company in Chicago. It was adapted and directed by WildClaw artistic director Charley Sherman. The novella \"Helen's Story\" (2013) by Rosanne Rabinowitz retells the story of \"The Great God Pan\" from Helen Vaughan's point of view. \"Helen's Story\" was written from a feminist perspective and nominated for a Shirley Jackson Award. \"The Great God Pan\" was adapted into a chamber opera by composer Ross Crean. Unusually for a composer, Crean wrote the opera's libretto himself. A recording of the work was released in 2017. The production saw its world premiere by Chicago Fringe Opera in 2018. According to the \"Chicago Tribune\" John von Rhein, Chicago Fringe Opera's staging of \"The Great God Pan\" portrays Helen Vaughan as both a symbol of gender equality and an evil \"femme fatale\".\n\n\"Black Gate\" Matthew David Surridge said that \"The Great God Pan\" influenced Bram Stoker's \"Dracula\" (1897) as both works feature \"an introductory sequence featuring a horrified Englishman in a non-English setting; then a variety of seemingly-unconnected events in London, the metropole at the heart of Empire; then the discovery that all those events are in fact inspired by one malign and supernatural intelligence, that the rational contemporary capital is threatened by the irrational and archaic; then an equivocal conclusion. The fear of sex, women, foreignness.\" John C. Tibbetts notes that both Helen Vaughan in \"The Great God Pan\" and Lucy Westenra in \"Dracula\" are \"demon women of voracious and malignant sexuality\". Theodora Goss also notes similarities between the death of Helen Vaughan in Machen's novella and Lucy's death in \"Dracula\". Tibbetts also notes that Machen's portrayal of Helen Vaughan as demonic and hyper-sexual may have influenced a similar character, The Woman of Songs, in Richard Marsh's \"The Beetle\" (1897).\n\n\"The Great God Pan\" was highly influential on the circle of writers around H. P. Lovecraft. The structure of Machen's story influenced the structure of Lovecraft's \"The Call of Cthulhu\" (1928). \"Pan\"s depiction of a monstrous half-human hybrid inspired the plot of Lovecraft’s \"The Dunwich Horror\" (1929), which refers to Machen’s novella by name. According to Lovecraft scholar Robert M. Price, \"The Dunwich Horror' is in every sense an homage to Machen and even a pastiche. There is little in Lovecraft's wonderful story that does not come directly out of Machen's fiction.\" \"Pan\" also inspired Lovecraft to create his character Nodens who appears most prominently in \"The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath\" (1943).\n\nClark Ashton Smith was inspired by \"The Great God Pan\" to write his story \"The Nameless Offspring\" (1931), which also features a monstrous child born of a human and a supernatural entity. It has been suggested that Michael Arlen's novel \"Hell! Said the Duchess\" (1934) is a parody of \"The Great God Pan\", as Arlen was influenced by Machen's work. \"The Great God Pan\" influenced Peter Straub's novel \"Ghost Story\" (1979) in its depiction of a shapeshifting monster who terrifies those it encounters. Straub himself frequently credited \"The Great God Pan\" as having been a major influence on his work.\n\nAccording to film historians Keith McDonald and Roger Clark, Mexican film director Guillermo del Toro's portrayal of the faun in his 2006 dark fantasy film \"Pan's Labyrinth\" was inspired by the \"ambivalent and possibly dangerous\" portrayals of Pan in late Victorian and early Edwardian novels, including Machen's \"The Great God Pan\" and \"Pan's Garden\" (1912) by Algernon Blackwood. Del Toro deliberately chose to imitate the darker, more sinister fauns of Machen and Blackwood rather than the \"sweetly domesticated figure\" of Mr. Tumnus from C. S. Lewis's \"The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe\" (1950). The original title of the film in Spanish is \"El Laberinto del Fauno\" (\"The Labyrinth of the Faun\"), but the English title \"Pan's Labyrinth\" emphasizes the connection between del Toro's film and the body of late nineteenth-century writings about Pan, including \"The Great God Pan\".\n\nStephen King wrote that his novella \"N.\" from his story collection \"Just After Sunset\" (2008) is \"a riff on Arthur Machen's \"The Great God Pan\"... Mine isn't anywhere near [as] good [as the original], but I loved the chance to put neurotic behavior—obsessive/compulsive disorder—together with the idea of a monster-filled macroverse.\" King has also cited Machen's novella as an influence on his novel \"Revival\" (2014). Similar to \"Pan\", \"Revival\" features an experiment on a young woman's brain which allows her to see into another world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "511228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=511228", "title": "The Poseidon Adventure (1972 film)", "text": "The Poseidon Adventure (1972 film)\n\nThe Poseidon Adventure is a 1972 American disaster film directed by Ronald Neame, produced by Irwin Allen, and based on Paul Gallico's eponymous 1969 novel. It features an ensemble cast, including five Academy Award winners: Gene Hackman, Ernest Borgnine, Jack Albertson, Shelley Winters, and Red Buttons. Parts of the movie were filmed aboard the . The plot centers on the fictional SS \"Poseidon\", an aged luxury liner on her final voyage from New York City to Athens before being sent to the scrapyard. On New Year's Eve, she is overturned by a tsunami. Passengers and crew are trapped inside, and a rebellious preacher attempts to lead a small group of survivors to safety.\n\nIt is in the vein of other all-star disaster films of the early-mid 1970s such as \"Airport\" (1970), \"Earthquake\" (1974), and \"The Towering Inferno\" (1974). By the end of 1974, it was regarded as a widely successful film. The film won two Academy Awards, a Golden Globe Award, a British Academy Film Award, and a Motion Picture Sound Editors Award. A 1979 sequel, \"Beyond the Poseidon Adventure\", was also based on a novel by Gallico but was a commercial and critical failure.\n\nThe S.S. \"Poseidon\", an ocean liner slated for retirement, is on her way to Athens. Despite protests from the captain, who fears for the ship's safety, the new owner's representative insists he go full speed to save money, preventing him from taking on ballast.\n\nReverend Scott, a minister believing that \"God helps those who help themselves\", is travelling to a new parish in Africa as a punishment for his unorthodox views. Detective Lt. Rogo and wife Linda, a former prostitute, deal with her seasickness. Susan and younger brother Robin are traveling to meet their parents. Robin is interested in how the ship works and frequently visits the engine room. Retired Jewish store owner Manny Rosen and wife Belle are going to Israel to meet their young grandson for the first time. Haberdasher James Martin is a love-shy, health-conscious bachelor. The ship's singer, Nonnie Parry, rehearses for the New Year's Day celebration.\n\nPassengers gather in the dining room to celebrate. The captain is called to the bridge in response to a report of an undersea earthquake. He receives word from the lookout that a huge tsunami is approaching from the direction of Crete at 60 knots. He issues a mayday distress signal and commands a \"hard left\" turn into the wave. The ship is unable to turn in time and is hit broadside, causing it to capsize.\n\nIn the dining room, survivors take stock of their predicament. Acres, an injured waiter, is trapped at the galley door now high above. Scott surmises that the escape route will be found \"upwards\", at the outer hull, now above water. Robin tells him the hull near the propeller shaft is only one inch (25.4 mm) thick. The Rosens, the Rogos, Susan, Robin, Acres, Nonnie, and Martin agree to go with Scott, using a Christmas tree as a ladder. Scott unsuccessfully tries convincing more passengers to join them. After the group climbs to the galley, there is a series of explosions. As seawater floods the dining room, those remaining attempt to climb the tree, but their weight causes it to fall. The water fills up the room and the \"Poseidon\" begins sinking.\n\nScott leads his group upward through the ship's hull, toward the engine room. While climbing a ladder inside a ventilation shaft, the ship rocks from more explosions. Acres falls and perishes despite Rogo's attempt to save him. Leaving the shaft, the group meets a large band of survivors led by the ship's medic, heading toward the bow. Scott believes they are heading for their doom, but Rogo wants to follow them and gives Scott 15 minutes to find the engine room. Although he takes longer than allowed, Scott succeeds.\n\nThe group discovers the engine room is on the other side of a flooded corridor. Belle reveals she is a former competitive swimmer and volunteers to go through, but Scott refuses her and dives in. Halfway through, a panel collapses on him. The survivors notice something is wrong, and Belle dives in. She frees Scott and they make it to the other side, but Belle suffers a heart attack. Before dying, she tells Scott to give her Chai pendant to her husband, who in turn will give it to their grandson. Rogo swims over to make sure Belle and Scott are all right, then leads the rest over. When Rosen finds Belle's dead body, he is unwilling to go on, but Scott gives him her pendant, reminding him that he has a reason to live.\n\nScott leads the survivors to the propeller shaft room's watertight door, but another series of explosions causes Linda to fall to her death. A heartbroken Rogo blames her death on Scott. A ruptured pipe releases steam, blocking their escape. Scott rants at God for the survivors' deaths. He leaps and grabs onto the burning-hot valve wheel to shut off the steam, then tells Rogo to lead the group before letting go of it, falling to his death in the flaming water below.\n\nRogo leads the remaining survivors—Rosen, Martin, Nonnie, Susan, and Robin—through the watertight doors and into the propeller shaft tunnel. They hear a noise from outside and bang on the hull to attract attention. The rescuers cut a hole through the hull, assist the sole group of six survivors from the ship, and fly them to safety.\n\n\"The Poseidon Adventure\" has received largely positive reviews, with review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reporting 79% of 24 critics gave the film a positive review, with an above average score of 7.1/10. \"Boxoffice\" magazine reported \"The Poseidon Adventure\" was the #1 Box Office Champ of 1973. By the end of 1974, it ranked among the six most successful features in film history, along with \"Gone with the Wind\" (1939), \"The Godfather\" (1972), \"Love Story\" (1970), \"Airport\" (1970), and \"The Sound of Music\" (1965). It is listed in Golden Raspberry Award founder John Wilson's book, \"The Official Razzie Movie Guide\", as one of The 100 Most Enjoyably Bad Movies Ever Made.\n\nIt is in the vein of other all-star disaster films of the 1970s such as \"Airport\" and later ones like \"Earthquake\" (1974) and \"The Towering Inferno\" (1974). The film earned estimated rentals of $40 million in North America in 1973. \"Mad\"'s September 1973 edition satirized the movie as \"The Poopsidedown Adventure\". It became the best selling issue in the magazine's history. When the film made its network television premiere on ABC on October 27, 1974, it earned a 39.0 household share, making it the sixth highest film to ever air on network television. \"The Poseidon Adventure\" has become a cult film, particularly among gay audiences. It has been released on DVD and Blu-ray.\n\nIt won a Special Achievement Academy Award for Visual Effects and an Academy Award for Best Original Song (for \"The Song from \"The Poseidon Adventure\"\", also known as \"The Morning After\"). Shelley Winters won the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actress – Motion Picture and was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her role. It also received nominations for the Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture – Drama and for Best Original Score by John Williams.\n\nA 1979 sequel, \"Beyond the Poseidon Adventure\", which was also based on a novel by Gallico, was released later with an equally star-studded cast, but was a commercial and critical failure. In 1998, several episodes of the daytime soap \"Sunset Beach\" entitled \"Shockwave\" revolved around an earthquake and tsunami in California and major parts of the episodes take place on a cruise ship, the S.S. \"Neptune\" that is capsized by the giant wave. The episode borrowed heavily from the plot line of \"The Poseidon Adventure\" and garnered huge audiences and spurring NBC to repeat it several weeks later in prime time. \"The Poseidon Adventure\" was remade twice, first as a television special in 2005 with the same name, and as a theatrical release titled \"Poseidon\" in 2006.\n\n\n\n[[Category:Screenplays by Stirling \n[[Category:Screenplays by Wendell Mayes]]\n[[Category:Sea adventure films]]\n[[Category:Seafaring films]]\n\n[[ja:ポセイドン・アドベンチャー#1972年版]]"}
{"id": "59117407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59117407", "title": "The Red Word", "text": "The Red Word\n\nThe Red Word is a novel by Canadian writer Sarah Henstra, published in 2018 by ECW Press.\n\nAn exploration of contemporary gender politics and rape culture, the novel centres on Karen Huls, a sophomore at university who moves in with a group of feminist activist roommates while simultaneously getting romantically involved with a member of \"Gang Bang Central\", a campus fraternity being targeted by her roommates due to its toxic and sexist culture.\n\nThe novel won the Governor General's Award for English-language fiction at the 2018 Governor General's Awards.\n"}
{"id": "567081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=567081", "title": "The Seven-Per-Cent Solution", "text": "The Seven-Per-Cent Solution\n\nThe Seven-Per-Cent Solution: Being a Reprint from the Reminiscences of John H. Watson, M.D. is a 1974 novel by American writer Nicholas Meyer. It is written as a pastiche of a Sherlock Holmes adventure, and was made into a film of the same name in 1976.\n\nPublished as a \"lost manuscript\" of the late Dr. John H. Watson, the book recounts Holmes' recovery from cocaine addiction (with the help of Sigmund Freud) and his subsequent prevention of a European war through the unravelling of a sinister kidnapping plot. It was followed by two other Holmes pastiches by Meyer, \"The West End Horror\" (1976) and \"The Canary Trainer\" (1993), neither of which has been adapted to film.\n\n\"The Seven-Per-Cent Solution\" was ranked ninth in the \"Publishers Weekly\" list of bestselling novels from 1974 and made \"The New York Times\" Best Seller list for forty weeks between September 15, 1974 and June 22, 1975.\n\nAn introduction states that two canonical Holmes adventures were fabrications. These are \"The Final Problem\", in which Holmes apparently died along with Prof. James Moriarty, and \"The Empty House\", wherein Holmes reappeared after a three-year absence and revealed that he had not been killed after all. \"The Seven-Per-Cent Solution\"'s Watson explains that they were published to conceal the truth concerning Holmes' \"Great Hiatus\".\n\nThe novel begins in 1891, when Holmes first informs Watson of his belief that Professor James Moriarty is a \"Napoleon of Crime\". The novel presents this view as nothing more than the fevered imagining of Holmes' cocaine-sodden mind and further asserts that Moriarty was the childhood mathematics tutor of Sherlock and his brother Mycroft. Watson meets Moriarty, who denies that he is a criminal and reluctantly threatens to pursue legal action unless the latter's accusations cease. Moriarty also refers to a \"great tragedy\" in Holmes' childhood, but refuses to explain further when pressed by Watson.\n\nThe heart of the novel consists of an account of Holmes' recovery from his addiction. Knowing that Sherlock would never willingly see a doctor about his addiction and mental problems, Watson and Holmes' brother Mycroft induce Holmes to travel to Vienna, where Watson introduces him to Dr. Freud. Using a treatment consisting largely of hypnosis, Freud helps Holmes shake off his addiction and his delusions about Moriarty, but neither he nor Watson can revive Holmes' dejected spirit.\n\nWhat finally does the job is a whiff of mystery: one of the doctor's patients is kidnapped and Holmes' curiosity is sufficiently aroused. The case takes the three men on a breakneck train ride across Austria in pursuit of a foe who is about to launch a war involving all of Europe. Holmes remarks during the denouement that they have succeeded only in postponing such a conflict, not preventing it; Holmes would later become involved in a \"European War\" in 1914.\n\nOne final hypnosis session reveals a key traumatic event in Holmes' childhood: his father murdered his mother for adultery and committed suicide afterwards. It was Moriarty who informed Holmes and his brother of their deaths, and his tutor then became a dark and malignant figure in his subconscious. Freud and Watson conclude that Holmes, consciously unable to face the emotional ramifications of this event, has pushed them deep into his unconscious while finding outlets in fighting evil, pursuing justice, and many of his famous eccentricities, including his cocaine habit. However, they decide not to discuss these subjects with Holmes, believing that he would not accept them, and that it would needlessly complicate his recovery.\n\nWatson returns to London, but Holmes decides to travel alone for a while, advising Watson to claim that he had been killed, and thus the famed \"Great Hiatus\" is more or less preserved. It is during these travels that the events of Meyer's sequel \"The Canary Trainer\" occur.\n\nHolmes's addiction to cocaine is developed out of the opening scene of Conan Doyle's \"The Sign of Four\". In that scene, Holmes describes the cocaine with which he is injecting himself as \"a seven-per-cent solution.\"\n\nIn his Introduction, Meyer's Watson declares that \"The Lion's Mane\", \"The Mazarin Stone\", \"The Creeping Man\" and \"The Three Gables\" (all Arthur Conan Doyle-written adventures from 1927's \"The Case-Book of Sherlock Holmes\") are forged \"drivel\". \"The Creeping Man\" has been accused of resembling a science-fiction tale more than a Holmes adventure, \"The Mazarin Stone\" is often viewed as an awkward adaptation of a theatrical script by Doyle and some have objected to a perceived racist characterization in \"The Three Gables\". \"The Lion's Mane\", while perhaps less controversial than the other tales, is notable for being one of the canon's two stories narrated by Holmes. Meyer's Watson also states that other forgeries exist, though whether canonical works are concerned is not specified.\n\nOn the train to Vienna, Holmes and Watson briefly meet Rudolf Rassendyll, the fictional protagonist of the 1894 novel \"The Prisoner of Zenda\", returning from his adventures in Ruritania.\n\nThe story was adapted for the screen in 1976 in a Universal Studios production, directed by Herbert Ross, scripted by Meyer and designed by James Bond veteran Ken Adam. The all-star cast featured Nicol Williamson as Holmes, Robert Duvall as Watson, Alan Arkin as Dr. Sigmund Freud, with Laurence Olivier as Moriarty, Charles Gray as Mycroft Holmes (the role he reprised in the Jeremy Brett TV series), Samantha Eggar as Mary Watson, Vanessa Redgrave as Lola Devereaux, Joel Grey as Lowenstein, and Jeremy Kemp as Baron von Leinsdorf and Williamson's then wife Jill Townsend playing his character's mother (Mrs. Holmes). The film was made at Pinewood Studios with location shooting in the UK and Austria (including the famous Austrian National Library); the tennis match/duel between Freud and von Leinsdorf was filmed on one of the historic real tennis courts at the Queen's Club in West Kensington, London. The chase on the trains was shot with set-dressed British steam locomotives and freight cars dressed up as coaches.\n\nMeyer adapted his novel to screenplay form, but the film differs significantly from the novel, mainly by supplementing the book's Austrian baron-villain (played by Jeremy Kemp) with an older Turkish foe. Also, the film departs from traditional Holmes canon in portraying the detective as light-haired instead of the traditional black-haired, and as a somewhat flirtatious Holmes at that (Doyle's hero never let women see any signs of interest). Furthermore, the traumatic revelation that affected Holmes in his childhood is heightened – the final hypnosis therapy reveals that Sherlock witnessed his mother's murder by his father, and that Moriarty himself was his mother's lover. Finally, the lady whom Holmes saves in the story's climatic chase, Lola Devereaux, appears on his ship as he departs for his sabbatical with the purpose of joining him and Holmes eagerly accepts the offer. Meyer's three Holmes novels are much more faithful to the original stories in these regards.\n"}
{"id": "49663659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49663659", "title": "The organization's face", "text": "The organization's face\n\nThe organization's face concept first time introduced in 2011 by Professor Mohammad Ali Sarlak in a multi-volume book entitled: The new faces of organizations in the 21st century.\n\nIn Merriam Webster dictionary, face defines as a means of identification. The face considered as people identification’s factor and a distinction means between individuals.\n\nThe concept of organization’s face represents something that identifies and distinguishes the organization from other similar organizations.\n\nThe concept of organization’s face is based on two underlying metaphors:\nThe Organizations as living entity such as humans can be distinguished by face factor from each other.\n\nThe question is what are the factors that determine an organization’s face? To answer this question, Professor Sarlak uses the organization’s pillars model that is derived from the Lewitt model.\nThe pillars of an organization are shown in Figure 1.\n\nBased on the organization's pillars model, the organization has at least five following pillars:\n\nAs shown in Figure 2, with an emphasis on each of the organizational pillars, a specific type of organization’s face is formed.\n\nBased on Figure 2, organizations can demonstrate five general face, simultaneously or separately:\nEach of these faces is divided into more specific faces:\n\nHumanistic face\n\nThe Ethical face of organizations\n\nThe Engaged employee face of organization\n\nThe Empathic face of organization\n\nThe Smart (emotional) face of organization\n\nThe Affective Face of Organizations\n\nThe Justice-Based Face of Organizations\n\nThe Trustworthy Face of Organizations\n\nThe Wise Face of Organizations\n\nThe Wisdom-Based Face of Organizations\n\nThe Virtuous Face of Organizations\n\nThe Value-Based Face of Organizations\nGoal oriented face\n\nThe Strategy-Focused Face of SMEs\n\nThe Pluralistic face of organizations\n\nThe Hybrid Face of Organizations\n\nNew Innovative Face of Organizations\n\nThe Innovative Face of Public Organizations\n\nThe Learning Face of Organizations\n\nThe Knowledge Intensive Face of Organizations and Businesses\n\nThe Effective Face of Organizations\n\nThe Customer-Centric Face of Organizations\nStructure oriented face\n\nThe Team-Based Face of Organizations\n\nThe Professional Adhocratic Face of Organizations\n\nThe Networked Face of Organizations\nTechnology based face\n\nThe ICT-Based Face of Public Organizations\n\nThe Virtual Face of Organizations\n\nThe Content-Based Face of Organizations\n\nThe Process-Based Face of Organizations\n\nThe Supply Chain Centric Face of Organizations\nEnvironment based face\n\nThe Multicultural face of organizations\n\nThe Complex face of organizations\n\nThe Risk Managing Face of Organizations\n\nThe Outsource–Based Face of Organizations\n\nThe Pentatomic Face of Organizations\n"}
{"id": "31034157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31034157", "title": "Theory, Culture &amp; Society", "text": "Theory, Culture &amp; Society\n\nTheory, Culture & Society is a peer-reviewed academic journal that was established in 1982 and covers sociology, cultural, and social theory. The journal aims to work \"across the borderlines between sociology and cultural studies, the social sciences and the humanities and has moved towards a broader transdisciplinary frame of reference.\" It is published by SAGE Publications. The editor-in-chief is Mike Featherstone (Goldsmiths, University of London). The journal is also linked to the journal \"Body & Society\" and has its own book series featuring the work of theorists.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2015 impact factor of 1.702, ranking it 2nd out of 35 journals in the category \"Cultural Studies\".\n"}
{"id": "67028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=67028", "title": "Umbrella", "text": "Umbrella\n\nAn umbrella or parasol is a folding canopy supported by wooden or metal ribs, which is usually mounted on a wooden, metal, or plastic pole. It is designed to protect a person against rain or sunlight. The word \"umbrella\" typically refers to a device used for protection from rain. The word \"parasol\" usually refers to an item designed to protect from the sun. Often the difference is the material used for the canopy; some parasols are not waterproof. Umbrella canopies may be made of fabric or flexible plastic. There are also combinations of parasol and umbrella that are called en-tout-cas (french for \"in any case\").\n\nUmbrellas and parasols are primarily hand-held portable devices sized for personal use. The largest hand-portable umbrellas are golf umbrellas. Umbrellas can be divided into two categories: fully collapsible umbrellas, in which the metal pole supporting the canopy retracts, making the umbrella small enough to fit in a handbag; and non-collapsible umbrellas, in which the support pole cannot retract and only the canopy can be collapsed. Another distinction can be made between manually operated umbrellas and spring-loaded automatic umbrellas which spring open at the press of a button.\n\nHand-held umbrellas have some type of handle, either a wooden or plastic cylinder or a bent \"crook\" handle (like the handle of a cane). Umbrellas are available in a range of price and quality points, ranging from inexpensive, modest quality models sold at discount stores to expensive, finely made, designer-labeled models. Larger parasols capable of blocking the sun for several people are often used as fixed or semi-fixed devices, used with patio tables or other outdoor furniture, or as points of shade on a sunny beach. The collapsible/folding umbrella, the direct predecessor to the modern umbrella, originated in China. These Chinese umbrellas were internally supported with bendable, retractable, and extendable joints as well as sliding levers similar to those in use today.\n\nParasols are sometimes called sunshades. An umbrella may also be called a brolly (\"UK slang\"), parapluie (\"nineteenth century, French origin\"), rainshade, gamp (\"British, informal, dated\"), or bumbershoot (\"American slang\").\n\nThe word \"parasol\" (Spanish or French) is a combination of \"para\", meaning to stop or to shield, and \"sol\", meaning sun. \"Parapluie\" (French) similarly consists of \"para\" combined with \"pluie\", which means rain (which in turn derives from \"pluvia\", the Latin word for rain). Hence, a \"parasol\" shields from sunlight while a \"parapluie\" shields from rain. (\"Parachute\" means \"shield from fall\".)\n\nThe word \"umbrella\" evolved from the Latin \"umbella\" (an umbel is a flat-topped rounded flower) or \"umbra\", meaning shaded or shadow.\n\nIn Britain, umbrellas were sometimes referred to as \"gamps\" after the character Mrs. Gamp in the Charles Dickens novel \"Martin Chuzzlewit\", although this usage is now obscure. Mrs. Gamp's character was well known for carrying an umbrella.\n\n\"Brolly\" is a slang word for umbrella, used often in Britain, Ireland, New Zealand, Australia, South Africa, and Kenya.\n\n\"Bumbershoot\" is a fanciful Americanism from the late 19th century.\n\nIn all written records, the oldest reference to a collapsible umbrella dates to the year 21 AD, when Wang Mang (r. 9–23) had one designed for a ceremonial four-wheeled carriage. The 2nd-century commentator Fu Qian added that this collapsible umbrella of Wang Mang's carriage had bendable joints which enabled them to be extended or retracted. A 1st century collapsible umbrella has since been recovered from the tomb of Wang Guang at Lelang Commandery in the Korean Peninsula, illustrated in a work by Harada and Komai. However, the Chinese collapsible umbrella is perhaps a concept that is yet centuries older than Wang's tomb. Zhou Dynasty bronze castings of complex bronze socketed hinges with locking slides and bolts—which could have been used for parasols and umbrellas—were found in an archeological site of Luoyang, dated to the 6th century BC.\n\nAn even older source on the umbrella is perhaps the ancient book of Chinese ceremonies, called \"Zhou Li\" (\"The Rites of Zhou\"), dating 2,400 years ago, which directs that the dais should be placed upon the imperial cars. The figure of this dais contained in \"Zhou-Li\", and the description of it given in the explanatory commentary of Lin-hi-ye, both identify it with an umbrella. The latter describes the dais to be composed of 28 arcs, which are equivalent to the ribs of the modern instrument, and the staff supporting the covering to consist of two parts, the upper being a rod 3/18 of a Chinese foot in circumference, and the lower a tube 6/10 in circumference, into which the upper half is capable of sliding and closing.\n\nThe Chinese character for umbrella is 傘 (\"sǎn\") and is a pictograph resembling the modern umbrella in design. Some investigators have supposed that its invention was first created by tying large leaves to bough-like ribs (the branching out parts of an umbrella). Others assert that the idea was probably derived from the tent, which remains in an unaltered form to the present day. However, the tradition existing in China is that it originated in standards and banners waving in the air, hence the use of the umbrella was often linked to high-ranking (though not necessarily royalty) in China. On at least one occasion, twenty-four umbrellas were carried before the Emperor when he went out hunting. The umbrella served in this case as a defense against rain rather than sun. The Chinese design was later brought to Japan via Korea and also introduced to Persia and the Western world via the Silk Road. The Chinese and Japanese traditional parasol, often used near temples, remains similar to the original ancient Chinese design.\n\nA late Song dynasty Chinese divination book that was printed in about 1270 AD features a picture of a collapsible umbrella that is exactly like the modern umbrella of today's China.\n\nIn the sculptures at Nineveh, the parasol appears frequently. Austen Henry Layard gives a picture of a bas-relief representing a king in his chariot, with an attendant holding a parasol over his head. It has a curtain hanging down behind, but is otherwise exactly like those in use today. It is reserved exclusively for the monarch (who was bald), and is never carried over any other person.\n\nIn Persia, the parasol is repeatedly found in the carved work of Persepolis, and Sir John Malcolm has an article on the subject in his 1815 \"History of Persia.\" In some sculptures, the figure of a king appears attended by a servant, who carries over his head an umbrella, with stretchers and runner complete. In other sculptures on the rock at Taghe-Bostan, supposed to be not less than twelve centuries old, a deer-hunt is represented, at which a king looks on, seated on a horse, and having an umbrella borne over his head by an attendant.\n\nIn ancient Egypt, the parasol is found in various shapes. In some instances it is depicted as a flagellum, a fan of palm-leaves or coloured feathers fixed on a long handle, resembling those now carried behind the Pope in processions. Gardiner Wilkinson, in his work on Egypt, has an engraving of an Ethiopian princess travelling through Upper Egypt in a chariot; a kind of umbrella fastened to a stout pole rises in the centre, bearing a close affinity to what are now termed chaise umbrellas. According to Wilkinson's account, the umbrella was generally used throughout Egypt, partly as a mark of distinction, but more on account of its useful than its ornamental qualities. In some paintings on a temple wall, a parasol is held over the figure of a god carried in procession.\n\nIn Greece, the parasol (\"skiadeion\"), was an indispensable adjunct to a lady of fashion in the late 5th century BC. Aristophanes mentions it among the common articles of female use; they could apparently open and close. Pausanias describes a tomb near Triteia in Achaia decorated with a 4th-century BC painting ascribed to Nikias; it depicted the figure of a woman, \"and by her stood a female slave, bearing a parasol\". For a man to carry one was considered a mark of effeminacy. In Aristophanes' \"Birds\", Prometheus uses one as a comical disguise.\n\nCultural changes among the Aristoi of Greece eventually led to a brief period – between 505 and 470BC – where men used parasols. Vase iconography bears witness to a transition from men carrying swords, then spears, then staffs, then parasols, to eventually nothing. The parasol, at that time of its fashion, displayed the luxury of the user's lifestyle. During the period of their usage, Greek style was inspired by the Persian and Lydian nobility's way of dressing: loose robes, long decorated hair, gold, jewellery, and perfume.\n\nIt also had religious significance. In the Scirophoria, the feast of Athene Sciras, a white parasol was borne by the priestesses of the goddess from the Acropolis to the Phalerus. In the feasts of Dionysos, the umbrella was used, and in an old bas-relief, the same god is represented as descending \"ad inferos\" with a small umbrella in his hand. In the Panathenæa, the daughters of the Metics, or foreign residents, carried parasols over the heads of Athenian women as a mark of inferiority.\n\nFrom Greece it is probable that the use of the parasol passed to Rome, where it seems to have been usually used by women, while it was the custom even for effeminate men to defend themselves from the heat by means of the \"Umbraculum\", formed of skin or leather, and capable of being lowered at will. There are frequent references to the umbrella in the Roman Classics, and it appears that it was, not unlikely, a post of honour among maid-servants to bear it over their mistresses. Allusions to it are tolerably frequent in the poets. (Ovid Fast. lib. ii., 1. 31 I.; Martial, lib. xi., ch. 73.; lib. xiv, ch. 28, 130; Juvenal, ix., 50.; Ovid Ars. Am., ii., 209). From such mentions the umbrella does not appear to have been used as a defence from rain; this is curious enough, for it is known that the theatres were protected by the \"velarium\" or awning, which was drawn across the arena whenever a sudden shower came on. Possibly the expense bestowed in the decoration of the \"umbraculum\" was a reason for its not being applied to such use.\n\nAccording to Gorius, the umbrella came to Rome from the Etruscans who came to Rome for protection, and certainly it appears not infrequently on Etruscan vases and pottery, as also on later gems and rubies. One gem, figured by Pacudius, shows an umbrella with a bent handle, sloping backwards. Strabo describes a sort of screen or umbrella worn by Spanish women, but this is not like a modern umbrella.\n\nThe Sanskrit epic Mahabharata (about 4th century BC) relates the following legend: Jamadagni was a skilled bow shooter, and his devoted wife Renuka would always recover each of his arrows immediately. One time however, it took her a whole day to fetch the arrow, and she later blamed the heat of the sun for the delay. The angry Jamadagni shot an arrow at the sun. The sun begged for mercy and offered Renuka an umbrella.\n\nJean Baptiste Tavernier, in his 17th century book \"Voyage to the East\", says that on each side of the Mogul's throne were two umbrellas, and also describes the hall of the King of Ava was decorated with an umbrella. The chháta of the Indian and Burmese princes is large and heavy, and requires a special attendant, who has a regular position in the royal household. In Ava it seems to have been part of the king's title, that he was \"King of the white elephant, and Lord of the twenty-four umbrellas.\" In 1855 the King of Burma directed a letter to the Marquis of Dalhousie in which he styles himself \"His great, glorious, and most excellent Majesty, who reigns over the kingdoms of Thunaparanta, Tampadipa, and all the great umbrella-wearing chiefs of the Eastern countries\".\n\nSimon de la Loubère, who was Envoy Extraordinary from the French King to the King of Siam in 1687 and 1688, wrote an account entitled a \"New Historical Relation of the Kingdom of Siam\", which was translated in 1693 into English. According to his account, the use of the umbrella was granted to only some of the subjects by the king. An umbrella with several circles, as if two or three umbrellas were fastened on the same stick, was permitted to the king alone; the nobles carried a single umbrella with painted cloths hanging from it.\nThe Talapoins (who seem to have been a sort of Siamese monks) had umbrellas made of a palm-leaf cut and folded, so that the stem formed a handle.\n\nThe Royal Nine-Tiered Umbrella is one of the royal regalia of Thailand.\n\nThe At district of Tenochtitlan was reported to have used an umbrella made from feathers and gold as its \"pantli\", an identifying marker that is the equivalent of a modern flag. The \"pantli\" was carried by the army general.\n\nThe extreme paucity of allusions to umbrellas throughout the Middle Ages shows that they were not in common use. In an old romance, \"The Blonde of Oxford\", a jester makes fun of a nobleman for being out in the rain without his cloak. \"Were I a rich man\", says he, \"I would bear my house about with me\". It appears that people depended on cloaks, not umbrellas, for protection against storms.\n\nOne of the earliest depictions is in a painting by Girolamo dai Libri from 1530 titled Madonna dell Ombrello (Madonna of the Umbrella) in which the Virgin Mary is sheltered by a cherub carrying a large, red umbrella.\n\nThomas Wright, in his \"Domestic Manners of the English\", gives a drawing from the Harleian MS., No. 604, which represents an Anglo-Saxon gentleman walking out attended by his servant, the servant carrying an umbrella with a handle that slopes backwards, so as to bring the umbrella over the head of the person in front. It probably could not be closed, but otherwise it looks like an ordinary umbrella, and the ribs are represented distinctly.\n\nThe use of the parasol and umbrella in France and England was adopted, probably from China, about the middle of the seventeenth century. At that period, pictorial representations of it are frequently found, some of which exhibit the peculiar broad and deep canopy belonging to the large parasol of the Chinese Government officials, borne by native attendants.\n\nJohn Evelyn, in his \"Diary\" for 22 June 1664, mentions a collection of rarities shown to him by \"Thompson\", a Roman Catholic priest, sent by the Jesuits of Japan and China to France. Among the curiosities were \"fans like those our ladies use, but much larger, and with long handles, strangely carved and filled with Chinese characters\", which is evidently a description of the parasol.\n\nIn Thomas Coryat's \"Crudities\", published in 1611, about a century and a half prior to the general introduction of the umbrella into England, is a reference to a custom of riders in Italy using umbrellas:\n\nAnd many of them doe carry other fine things of a far greater price, that will cost at the least a duckat, which they commonly call in the Italian tongue umbrellas, that is, things which minister shadowve to them for shelter against the scorching heate of the sunne. These are made of leather, something answerable to the forme of a little cannopy, & hooped in the inside with divers little wooden hoopes that extend the umbrella in a pretty large compasse. They are used especially by horsemen, who carry them in their hands when they ride, fastening the end of the handle upon one of their thighs, and they impart so large a shadow unto them, that it keepeth the heate of the sunne from the upper parts of their bodies.\n\nIn John Florio's \"A WORLD of Words\" (1598), the Italian word Ombrella is translated\n\na fan, a canopie. also a testern or cloth of state for a prince. also a kind of round fan or shadowing that they vse to ride with in sommer in Italy, a little shade. Also a bonegrace for a woman. Also the husk or cod of any seede or corne. also a broad spreding bunch, as of fenell, nill, or elder bloomes.\n\nIn Randle Cotgrave's \"Dictionary of the French and English Tongues\" (1614), the French Ombrelle is translated\n\nAn umbrello; a (fashion of) round and broad fanne, wherewith the Indians (and from them our great ones) preserve themselves from the heat of a scorching sunne; and hence any little shadow, fanne, or thing, wherewith women hide their faces from the sunne.\n\nIn Fynes Moryson's \"Itinerary\" (1617) is a similar allusion to the habit of carrying umbrellas in hot countries \"to auoide the beames of the Sunne\". Their employment, says the author, is dangerous, \"because they gather the heate into a pyramidall point, and thence cast it down perpendicularly upon the head, except they know how to carry them for auoyding that danger\".\n\nDuring Streynsham Master's 1676 visit to the East India Company's factory in Masulipatnam he noted that only the governor of the town and the next three officials in seniority were allowed to have \"a roundell [i.e. umbrella] carried over them.\"\n\nIn France, the umbrella (\"parapluie\") began to appear in the 1660s, when the fabric of parasols carried for protection against the sun was coated with wax. The inventory of the French royal court in 1763 mentioned \"eleven parasols of taffeta in different colours\" as well as \"three parasols of waxed \"toile\", decorated around the edges with lace of gold and silver.\" They were rare, and the word \"parapluie\" (\"against the rain\") did not enter the dictionary of the Académie française until 1718. \n\nKersey's Dictionary (1708) describes an umbrella as a \"screen commonly used by women to keep off rain\".\n\nThe first lightweight folding umbrella in Europe was introduced in 1710 by a Paris merchant named Jean Marius, whose shop was located near the barrier of Saint-Honoré. It could be opened and closed in the same way as modern umbrellas, and weighed less than one kilogram. Marius received from the King the exclusive right to produce folding umbrellas for five years. A model was purchased by the Princess Palatine in 1712, and she enthused about it to her aristocratic friends, making it an essential fashion item for Parisiennes. In 1759, a French scientist named Navarre presented a new design to the French Academy of Sciences for an umbrella combined with a cane. Pressing a small button on the side of the cane opened the umbrella.\n\nTheir use became widespread in Paris. In 1768, a Paris magazine reported: \"The common usage for quite some time now is not to go out without an umbrella, and to have the inconvenience of carrying it under your arm for six months in order to use it perhaps six times. Those who do not want to be mistaken for vulgar people much prefer to take the risk of being soaked, rather than to be regarded as someone who goes on foot; an umbrella is a sure sign of someone who doesn't have his own carriage.\" \n\nIn 1769, the Maison Antoine, a store at the Magasin d'Italie on rue Saint-Denis, was the first to offer umbrellas for rent to those caught in downpours, and it became a common practice. The Lieutenant General of Police of Paris issued regulations for the rental umbrellas; they were made of oiled green silk, and carried a number so they could be found and reclaimed if someone walked off with one. \n\nBy 1808 there were seven shops making and selling umbrellas in Paris; one shop, Sagnier on rue des Vielles-Haudriettes, received the first patent given for an invention in France for a new model of umbrella. By 1813 there were 42 shops; by 1848 there were three hundred seventy-seven small shops making umbrellas in Paris, employing 1400 workers. One of the well-known makers was Boutique Bétaille, which was located at rue Royale 20 from 1880–1939. Another was Revel, based in Lyon. By the end of the century, however, cheaper manufacturers in the Auvergne replaced Paris as the centre of umbrella manufacturing, and the town of Aurillac became the umbrella capital of France. The town still produces about half the umbrellas made in France; the umbrella factories there employ about one hundred workers. \nIn Daniel Defoe's \"Robinson Crusoe\", Crusoe constructs his own umbrella in imitation of those that he had seen used in Brazil. \"I covered it with skins\", he says, \"the hair outwards, so that it cast off the rain like a pent-house, and kept off the sun so effectually, that I could walk out in the hottest of the weather with greater advantage than I could before in the coolest.\" From this description the original heavy umbrella came to be called \"Robinson\" which they retained for many years in England.\n\nCaptain James Cook, in one of his voyages in the late 18th century, reported seeing some of the natives of the South Pacific Islands with umbrellas made of palm leaves.\n\nThe use of the umbrella or parasol (though not unknown) was uncommon in England during the earlier half of the eighteenth century, as is evident from the comment made by General (then Lieut.-Colonel) James Wolfe, when writing from Paris in 1752; he speaks of the use of umbrellas for protection from the sun and rain, and wonders why a similar practice did not occur in England. About the same time, umbrellas came into general use as people found their value, and got over the shyness natural to its introduction. Jonas Hanway, the founder of the Magdalen Hospital, has the credit of being the first man who ventured to dare public reproach and ridicule by carrying one habitually in London. As he died in 1786, and he is said to have carried an umbrella for thirty years, the date of its first use by him may be set down at about 1750. John Macdonald relates that in 1770, he used to be addressed as, \"Frenchman, Frenchman! why don't you call a coach?\" whenever he went out with his umbrella. By 1788 however they seem to have been accepted: a London newspaper advertises the sale of 'improved and pocket Umbrellas, on steel frames, with every other kind of common Umbrella.' But full acceptance is not complete even today with some considering umbrellas effete.\n\nSince then, the umbrella has come into general use, in consequence of numerous improvements. In China people learned how to waterproof their paper umbrellas with wax and lacquer. The transition to the present portable form is due, partly, to the substitution of silk and gingham for the heavy and troublesome oiled silk, which admitted of the ribs and frames being made much lighter, and also to many ingenious mechanical improvements in the framework. Victorian era umbrellas had frames of wood or baleen, but these devices were expensive and hard to fold when wet. Samuel Fox invented the steel-ribbed umbrella in 1852; however, the \"Encyclopédie Méthodique\" mentions metal ribs at the end of the eighteenth century, and they were also on sale in London during the 1780s. Modern designs usually employ a telescoping steel trunk; new materials such as cotton, plastic film and nylon often replace the original silk.\n\nNational Umbrella Day is held on 10 February each year around the world.\n\nIn 1928, Hans Haupt's pocket umbrellas appeared. In Vienna in 1928, Slawa Horowitz, a student studying sculpture at the Akademie der Bildenden Kunste Wien (Academy of Fine Arts), developed a prototype for an improved compact foldable umbrella for which she received a patent on 19 September 1929. The umbrella was called \"Flirt\" and manufactured by the Austrian company \"Brüder Wüster\" and their German associates \"Kortenbach & Rauh\". In Germany, the small foldable umbrellas were produced by the company \"Knirps\", which became a synonym in the German language for small foldable umbrellas in general. \nIn 1969, Bradford E Phillips, the owner of Totes Incorporated of Loveland, Ohio, obtained a patent for his \"working folding umbrella\".\n\nUmbrellas have also been fashioned into hats as early as 1880 and at least as recently as 1987.\n\nGolf umbrellas, one of the largest sizes in common use, are typically around across, but can range anywhere from .\n\nUmbrellas are now a consumer product with a large global market. As of 2008, most umbrellas worldwide are made in China, mostly in the Guangdong, Fujian and Zhejiang provinces. The city of Shangyu alone had more than a thousand umbrella factories. In the US alone, about 33 million umbrellas, worth $348 million, are sold each year.\n\nUmbrellas continue to be actively developed. In the US, so many umbrella-related patents are being filed that the U.S. Patent Office employs four full-time examiners to assess them. As of 2008, the office registered 3000 active patents on umbrella-related inventions. Nonetheless, Totes, the largest American umbrella producer, has stopped accepting unsolicited proposals. Its director of umbrella development was reported as saying that while umbrellas are so ordinary that everyone thinks about them, \"it's difficult to come up with an umbrella idea that hasn’t already been done.\"\n\nWhile the predominate canopy shape of an umbrella is round, canopy shapes have been streamlined to improve aerodynamic response to wind. Examples include the stealth-shaped canopy of Rizotti (1996), scoop-shaped canopy of Lisciandro (2004), and teardrop-shaped canopies of Hollinger (2004).\n\nIn 2005 Gerwin Hoogendoorn, a Dutch industrial design student of the Delft University of Technology in the Netherlands, invented an aerodynamically streamlined storm umbrella (with a similar shape as a stealth plane) which can withstand wind force 10 (winds of up to 100 km/h or 70 mp/h) and won't turn inside-out like a regular umbrella as well as being equipped with so-called ‘eyesavers’ which protect others from being accidentally wounded by the tips. Hoogendoorn's storm umbrella was nominated for and won several design awards and was featured on Good Morning America. The umbrella is sold in Europe as the Senz umbrella and is sold under license by Totes in the United States.\n\nAlan Kaufman's \"Nubrella\" and Greg Brebner's \"Blunt\" are other contemporary designs.\n\nThe umbrella is used in weather forecasting as an icon for rain. Two variations, a plain umbrella (☂, U+2602) and an umbrella with raindrops overhead (☔, U+2614), are encoded in the Miscellaneous Symbols block of Unicode.\n\nAs a canopy of state, umbrellas were generally used in southern and eastern Europe, and then passed from the imperial court into church ceremony. They are found in the ceremonies of the Byzantine Rite, were borne over the Host in procession, and form part of the Pontifical regalia.\n\nThe \"ombrellino\" or umbraculum is a historic piece of the papal regalia. Although the popes no longer use it personally, it is displayed on the coat of arms of a sede vacante (the papal arms used between the death of a pope and the election of his successor). This umbraculum is normally made of alternating red and gold fabric, and is usually displayed in a partially unfolded manner. The popes have traditionally bestowed the use of the umbraculum as a mark of honor upon specific persons and places. The use of an umbraculum is one of the honorary symbols of a basilica and may be used in the basilica's coat of arms, and carried in processions by the basilica's canons.\n\nA large umbrella is displayed in each of the Basilicas of Rome, and a cardinal bishop who receives his title from one of those churches has the privilege of having an umbrella carried over his head in solemn processions. It is possible that the galero (wide-brimmed cardinal's hat) may be derived from this umbrella. Beatiano, an Italian herald, says that \"a vermilion umbrella in a field argent symbolises dominion.\"\nAn umbrella, also known as the \"umbraculum\" or \"ombrellino\", is used in Roman Catholic liturgy as well. It is held over the Holy Sacrament of the Eucharist and its carrier by a server in short processions taking place indoors, or until the priest is met at the sanctuary entrance by the bearers of the processional canopy or \"baldacchino\". It is regularly white or golden (the colours reserved for the Holy Sacrament) and made of silk.\n\nIn several Oriental Orthodox Churches, such as the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, umbrellas are used liturgically to show honor to a person (such as a bishop) or a holy object. In the ceremonies of Timkat (Epiphany), priests will carry a model of the Tablets of Stone, called a Tabot, on their heads in procession to a body of water, which will then be blessed. Brightly colored embroidered and fringed liturgical parasols are carried above the Tabota during this procession. Such processions also take place on other major feast days.\n\nUmbrellas with a reflective inside are used by photographers as a diffusion device when employing artificial lighting, and as a glare shield and shade, most often in portrait situations. Some umbrellas are shoot-through umbrellas, meaning the light goes through the umbrella and is diffused, rather than reflecting off the inside of the umbrella.\n\nIn 1838, the Baron Charles Random de Berenger instructed readers of his book \"How to Protect Life and Property\" in several methods of using an umbrella as an improvised weapon against highwaymen.\n\nIn 1897, journalist J. F. Sullivan proposed the umbrella as a misunderstood weapon in a tongue-in-cheek article for the \"Ludgate Monthly\".\n\nBetween 1899 and 1902, both umbrellas and walking sticks as self defence weapons were incorporated into the repertoire of Bartitsu.\n\nIn January 1902, an article in \"The Daily Mirror\" instructed women on how they could defend themselves from ruffians with an umbrella or parasol.\n\nIn March 2011, media outlets revealed that French president Nicolas Sarkozy had started using a £10,000 armor-plated umbrella to protect him from attackers. \"Para Pactum\" is a Kevlar-coated device made by The Real Cherbourg. It will be carried by a member of Sarkozy's security team.\n\nDuring the 2014 Hong Kong protests, sometimes referred to as the \"Umbrella Revolution\", protesters used umbrellas as shields against the pepper spray and tear gas used by riot police.\n\n\n\nIn the 1950s Frei Otto transformed the universally used individual umbrella into an item of lightweight architecture. He developed a new umbrella form, based on the minimum surface principle. The tension loaded membrane of the funnel-shaped umbrella is now stretched under the compression-loaded bars. This construction type made it technically and structurally possible to build very large convertible umbrellas. The first umbrellas of this kind (Federal Garden Exhibition, Kassel, 1955) were fixed, Frei Otto constructed the first convertible large umbrellas for the Federal Garden Exhibition in Cologne 1971. In 1978 he built a group of ten convertible umbrellas for British rock group Pink Floyd's American tour. The great beauty of these lightweight structures inspired many subsequent projects built all over the world. The largest convertible umbrellas built until now were designed by Mahmoud Bodo Rasch and his team at SL-Rasch to provide shelter from sun and rain for the great mosques in Saudi Arabia.\nLater works by the architect Le Corbusier such as Centre Le Corbusier and Villa Shodhan involve a parasol, which served as a roof structure and provided cover from the sun and wind.\n\n"}
{"id": "6335095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6335095", "title": "Watchtower (magic)", "text": "Watchtower (magic)\n\nIn the tradition of the 1880s Order of the Golden Dawn a watchtower or guardian in ceremonial and derived neopagan magical tradition is a tutelary spirit of one of the four cardinal points or \"quarters\" (north, east, south, and west). They are also variously associated in many traditions with each the four classical elements (earth, air, fire, and water) and stars (Fomalhaut, Aldebaran, Regulus, and Antares). The Watchtowers are invoked during the ritual of casting a magic circle.\n\nAlternately, \"Watchtowers\" may refer specifically to the \"abodes of the Guardians\", with the guardians themselves referred to as \"Watchers\" or simply \"Guardians\".\n\nIn Christian influenced magic traditions, they are understood to be the Archangels Uriel, Raphael, Michael, and Gabriel.\n\nIn archaic Roman religion, small towers were built at the crossroads, and an altar was set before them upon which offerings were given to nature spirits. Guardian spirits known as Lares were associated with these towers and with demarcation in general, as well as seasonal themes related to agriculture. Here we may find a connection between the Lares and the Grigori of Italian Witchcraft. These towers may be the foundation of the \"Watchtowers\" appearing in the ritual circles of Wiccans and other modern witches.\n\nIn the Enochian system of magic, brought to public attention by Dr. John Dee and Edward Kelly in the 16th century, we find the inclusion of Watchtowers as complex evocational designs. Some people believe that the Watchtowers have their origin in the Enochian magic system revealed to the Elizabethan magician John Dee and his scryer Edward Kelley, which was later developed into a working system of magic by S.L. MacGregor Mathers. According to Dee’s diaries, the two men summoned an angel, which Kelley saw in an obsidian mirror; Dee recorded the revelations which Kelley narrated to him. Among the surviving records of the Angelic Operations is \"A Book of Supplications and Invocations\" which \"deals with the Invocation of the Angels who preside over the Four Quarters of the Terrestrial sphere.\"\n\nAt the core of the instructions was the Angelic Table: a grid of 25x27 squares, each square containing a letter. The Angelic Table is subdivided into four lesser grids for the four elements and the four directions, bound together by the cross-shaped Tablet of Union. They are used to call upon the aid of angels ruling over the four directions. The names of God and the angels to be used in the invocations are extracted from the tablets. The four tablets are often called the Enochian Tablets because the letters may be written in the Enochian alphabet also revealed to Dee and Kelley by the angel.\n\nDee’s work was revived and expounded upon by the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn, primarily through the work of S.L. MacGregor Mathers. In the Golden Dawn magical system, the four Angelic/Enochian Tablets became the four Watchtowers. Each Watchtower was attributed to a direction and an element, by the Golden Dawn.\n\n\nThe Tablet of Union was rearranged to form a rectangle attributed to Spirit or Ether. The tablets were brightly colored; squares attributed to the elements were painted in the color of that element, with lettering in complementary colors.\n\n\nThe use of complementary colors, called flashing colors in the Golden Dawn, means that the Watchtowers belong to the class of talismans called flashing tablets. The flashing colors were supposed to draw energy from the atmosphere. The painted tablets were placed on the walls of the temple during some rituals to symbolize the four quarters. A favorite ritual in the Golden Dawn was the Opening by Watchtower. This is actually a preliminary ritual to purify space and call upon the guardians of the four quarters, similar to casting the magic circle in Wicca. As part of the Opening by Watchtower, the practitioner uses the elemental weapons to summon the angels of the quarters. In the south, for instance, the practitioner uses the Fire Wand to trace an invoking Fire Pentagram, then summons the angels using the three names of God found in the Fire Tablet:\n\nThere is no evidence in Dee's original writings that either he, Kelly or the angels attributed these quadrangles of the Great Table, to the elements as the Golden Dawn did. There is therefore, no evidence that the name Oip Teaa Pedoce is in fact, a holy name for the God relevant to the element fire. There is no doubt though, that it is certainly a holy name relevant to spirits whose names are found in the Southern Quadrangle of the Great Table or Tablet.\n\nThe Watchtowers were among the Golden Dawn concepts introduced into Wicca (modern witchcraft) by its founder Gerald Gardner. The complicated tablets and Enochian names were largely abandoned, but Wicca retained the Watchtowers as \"the four cardinal points, regarded as guardians of the Magic Circle\". They are usually mentioned during the casting of the circle. In a conservative tradition such as Gardnerian or Alexandrian Wicca the invocation of the Watchtowers begins in the east; the practitioner traces an invoking Earth Pentagram while saying;\n\nMany Wiccan circle-castings no longer mention the Watchtowers by name. Another important development is experimentation with the attribution of elements to the directions, instead of adhering to the attributions used by the Golden Dawn and Gardnerian Wicca (north/earth, east/air, south/fire, west/water). Many Wiccans perceive themselves as participants in an earth-based religion; they believe their practices should reflect their living experience of the local environment. Both the Golden Dawn and early Wicca were active in Great Britain; traditional attributions derived from the British climate may not appeal to or work for practitioners in other climates. A special instance of this problem is the circumstance of Wiccans living in the southern hemisphere, who tend to perceive the north, not the south, as the direction most characterized by fire and heat. Some Neopagans choose to follow the practices of a historical pagan group with whom they identify, or conform to local traditions; either choice may dictate a change of attributions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32113812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32113812", "title": "Yawarlukru", "text": "Yawarlukru\n\nYawarlukru or Yawar Lukru (Kichwa \"yawar\" blood, \"lukru\" soup, \"blood soup\", hispanicized spellings \"Yahuarlocro, Yahuar Locro\") is a traditional dish of the ecuadorian cuisine. Is a light stew prepared with meat and entrails of lamb including intestines, liver, lung, tongue, rumen, etc. It's usually served with fried lamb blood, avocado and pickled red onion rings.\n\nIt can be consumed as a snack or as a main dish depending on the size of the plate. It's consumed in the ecuadorian Andes range and is considered a representative dish of the Ecuadorian cuisine.\n\nBoil the meat parts with onions (red or Spanish onion), two garlic heads and some spring onions, until the meat is soft, separate and keep the stock in a bowl.\n\nChop the intestines and other meats in cubes; fry garlic and onions with a dash of oregano in oil or lard, add achiote (annato paste) and when these garnitures are fully fried add the intestines, rumen cubes and potatoes; and water; boil until potatoes are ready. Add some more potatoes, milk, salt, pepper and finely chopped coriander.\n\nIn a separate frying pan over fry in oil the onion rings, spring onions, garlic and oregano; when ready add the clogged lamb or chicken blood.\n\nServe hot after mixing both the fried parts and the stock in a single pot. As a side dish some more fried blood, pickled onion rings, fine chopped coriander, ripe (soft) avocado and tomato slices can be served.\n"}
