{"id": "9592982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9592982", "title": "1997 April Fool's Day blizzard", "text": "1997 April Fool's Day blizzard\n\nThe 1997 April Fool's Day blizzard was a major winter storm in the Northeastern United States on March 31 and April 1, 1997. The storm dumped rain, sleet, and snow from Maryland to Maine leaving hundreds of thousands without power and as much as three feet of snow on the ground.\n\nDue to the date many people took warnings of the storm less than seriously. Plows had already begun to be put away for the summer and hardware stores had to sell shovels again even though they already had out patio furniture. One commuter called it \"Mother Nature's April Fools' Joke.\"\n\nThe storm started as a surface low pressure system over the Ohio River Valley that was generated by an area of strong jet stream energy carving out an active upper air low pressure trough on Sunday March 30. The low pressure system brought rain to much of the Ohio Valley.\n\nWhen the storm arrived in eastern New York and western New England the areas received light rain. The storm moved off the coast of New Jersey on March 31 and began rapidly strengthening. As the storm intensified, air began rising around the storm at a very rapid rate which cooled in the atmosphere and caused the rain to change into heavy snow. The low moved very slowly along the coast gaining strength throughout the day, and with a continuous supply of moisture, this allowed for an extended period of heavy snow.\n\nPrior to the storm, Boston had received just of snow for the season. On Sunday March 30, Boston was sunny with a high temperature of 63 °F. A cold front passed early next day (Monday March 31), dropping the temperature into the 40s, and just prior to dawn precipitation began to fall in the form of light rain. In Boston the rain began to mix with wet snow mid-morning and eventually turned to wet snow and became heavier just after 7 p.m. From 7 p.m. to 11 p.m. the snow fell at a rate of at least per hour.\n\nDuring the peak of the storm from about 11 p.m. March 31 to 3 a.m. April 1, snow fell in Boston at the rate of per hour. Numerous lightning strikes and thunderclaps accompanied the extremely heavy snow, which accumulated one foot () in just that four-hour period. Moderate to heavy snow continued through midmorning before tapering off.\n\nThe of snow that fell at Boston's Logan International Airport was the fourth-biggest snowstorm in Boston history (biggest in the month of April) behind the North American blizzard of 2003 (), the Northeastern United States blizzard of 1978 (), and the February 1969 nor'easter () and made April 1997 Boston's snowiest April on record (the previous record being a mere ). It also set a record for Boston's greatest April 24-hour snowfall. Parts of New England received 50 to 70 mph wind gusts at the height of the storm. Providence recorded of snow which was the fourth greatest on record at the time. Other parts of New England reported more than and up to three feet with Worcester receiving , the city's largest snowfall in history until 2015.\n\nA state of emergency was declared by Massachusetts Gov. William F. Weld. The snow came down too fast for road crews to keep up with and roads became impassable and thousands of cars were stranded. Commuter trolleys in Boston were closed for the first time in nearly twenty years, public transportation was crippled, about 1,000 motorists spent the night stranded in their cars and 4,000 stayed in shelters. Some of the narrow side streets of Boston were completely buried and portions of Interstate 95 and Route 128 were shut down because of the snow. The main roads and highways were cleared within a couple of days but the secondary roads remained a mess making travel difficult. Two days after the storm, subways and commuter rails were still sluggish because of fallen trees and signal problems.\n\nThe wet and heavy snow caused tree limbs and even whole trees to fall. Some fell on power lines, and many people were left without power. Electricity was knocked out for nearly 700,000 people. Nearly 13% of New England lost power, mainly due to trees falling on power lines and utility poles. Power crews from as far away as Canada came to help clean up the area.\n\nLogan Airport was also shut down from 2 p.m. March 31 to 10 p.m. April 1.\n\nUpstate New York received and in some parts of New Jersey two feet of snow fell causing delays on commuter trains. A disaster was declared in eight northeast counties by Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Ridge and the National Guard of the United States was dispatched to dig out cars. Interstate 84 had to be shut down because of a ten vehicle accident.\n\nHospitals reported weather-related injuries including back sprains, pedestrians being hit by falling ice, and hand injuries including missing fingers from snow blowers. Three deaths were caused by the storm in Massachusetts and Rhode Island, all men who had heart attacks while shoveling, with another traffic death in New York which may have been caused by the weather.\n"}
{"id": "25512968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25512968", "title": "Air-laid paper", "text": "Air-laid paper\n\nAir-laid paper is a textile-like material categorized as a nonwoven fabric made from fluff pulp.\n\nCompared with normal wet-laid paper and tissue, air-laid paper is very bulky, porous and soft. It has good water absorption properties and is much stronger compared with normal tissue.\n\nMain characteristics are:\n\nUnlike the normal papermaking process, air-laid paper does not use water as the carrying medium for the fibre. Fibres are carried and formed to the structure of paper by air. The air-laid structure is isotropic.\n\nThe raw material is long fibered softwood fluff pulp in roll form. The pulp are defibrized in a hammermill. Defibration is the process of freeing the fibres from each other before entering the papermachine. Important parameters for dry defibration are shredding energy and knot content. Normally an air-laid paper consists of about 85% fibre. A binder must be applied as a spray or foam. Alternatively, additional fibres or powders can be added to the pulp which can then be activated and cured by heat.\n\nThe Danish inventor Karl Krøyer is considered to be the first who commercialized air-formed paper in the early 1980s. Others developed different processes independently at about the same time. A Finnish company United Paper Mills(now UPM-Kymmene Oyj) was one of the companies developing airlaid technology in the 1980s. In the 1980s UPM formed a new company called Walkisoft Oy and also built an airlaid factory to Kotka Finland which started in 1985. Walkisoft built several plants around the world (including the worlds largest airlaid-factory in Mt Holly, NC, USA) in the following 14 years before being sold to Buckeye Technologies Inc. The Walkisoft engineering team, which was responsible for the engineering and R&D of the airlaid machines, became known as Buckeye Engineering Finland and then, from 2002, as Anpap Oy, a private owned Finnish company. \n\n"}
{"id": "29488325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29488325", "title": "Bank of Natural Capital", "text": "Bank of Natural Capital\n\nThe Bank of Natural Capital is an educational initiative associated with The Economics of Ecosystems and Biodiversity (TEEB) to communicate natural capital investment and value theory related to what are sometimes called \"economic intangibles\" to the global public, in particular the direct economic and financial value of ecosystem services to man.\n\nIt encapsulates the idea that the natural world is defined as capital and something to profit on through a capitalist society, saying 'we pay for things we find valuable'. The capitalist construction of nature as something with a value will lead to, as already apparent its over-abstraction and system collapse. \n"}
{"id": "2839396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2839396", "title": "Cassie's law", "text": "Cassie's law\n\nCassie's law describes the effective contact angle θ for a liquid on a composite surface. The law explains how simply roughing up a surface increases the apparent surface angle. The law is stated as:\n\nwhere θ is the contact angle for component 1 with area fraction f, and θ is the contact angle for component 2 with area fraction f present in the composite material. This equation takes on special meaning when in a 2-component system one component is air with a contact angle of 180°. With cosine(180) = −1, the equation reduces to:\n\nwhich implies that with a small \"f\" and a large θ, it is possible to create surfaces with a very large contact angle. Cassie's research pointed out that the water-repelling quality of ducks is due to the nature of the composite formed between air and feather and not to other causes, such as the presence of exceptional proofing agents like oils. Water striders also exploit this phenomenon. Artificial superhydrophobic materials such as nanopin film exist in the laboratory that also make use of this law.\n\n"}
{"id": "13056805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13056805", "title": "Cephaloridine", "text": "Cephaloridine\n\nCephaloridine (or cefaloridine) is a first generation semisynthetic derivative of cephalosporin C. It is unique among cephalosporins in that it exists as a zwitterion.\n\nSince the discovery of cephalosporins P, N and C in 1948 there have been many studies describing the antibiotic action of cephalosporins and the possibility to synthesize derivatives. Hydrolysis of cephalosporin C, isolation of 7-aminocephalosporanic acid and the addition of side chains opened the possibility to produce various semi-synthetic cephalosporins. In 1962, cephalothin and cephaloridine were introduced.\n\nCephaloridine was temporarily popular because it was better tolerated intramuscularly and attained in higher and more sustained levels in blood than cephalothin. However, it binds to proteins to a much lesser extent than cephalothin. Because it is also poorly absorbed after oral administration the use of this drug for humans declined rapidly, especially since the second generation of cephalosporins was introduced in the 1970s. Today it is more commonly used in veterinary practice to treat mild to severe bacterial infections caused by penicillin resistant and penicillin sensitive Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli, Streptococcus pyogenes, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Bacillus sutbtilis, Klebsiella, Clostridium diptheriae, Salmonella and Shigella. Interest in studying cephalosporins was brought about by some unusual properties of cephaloridine. This antibiotic stands in sharp contrast to various other cephalosporins and to the structurally related penicillins in undergoing little or no net secretion by the mammalian kidney. Cephaloridine is, however, highly cytotoxic to the proximal renal tubule, the segment of the nephron responsible for the secretion of organic anions, including para-am-minohippurate (PAH), as well as the various penicillin and cephalosporin antibiotics. The cytotoxicity of cephaloridine is completely prevented by probenecid and several other inhibitors of organic anion transport, including the nearly nontoxic cephalothin.\n\nCephaloridine is a cephalosporin compound with pyridinium-1-ylmethyl and 2-thienylacetamido side groups. The molecular nucleus, of which all cephalosporins are derivatives, is A3-7-aminocephalosporanic acid. Conformations around the β-lactam rings are quite similar to the molecular nucleus of penicillin, while those at the carboxyl group exocyclic to the dihydrothiazine and thiazolidine rings respectively are different.\n\nCephaloridine can be synthesised from Cephalotin and pyridine by deacetylation. This can be done by heating an aquous mixture of cephalotin, thiocyanate, pyridine and phosphoric acid for several hours. After cooling, diluting with water, and adjusting the pH with mineral acid, cephaloridine thiocyanate salt precipitates. This can be purified and converted to cephaloridine by pH adjustment or by interaction with ion-exchange resin.\n\nBefore the 1970s, cephaloridine was used to treat patients with urinary tract infections. Besides the drugs has been used successfully in the treatment of various lower respiratory tract infections. Cephaloridine was very effective to cure pneumococcal pneumonia. It has a high clinical and bacteriological rate of success in staphylococcal and streptococcal infections.\n\nCephaloridine is easy absorbed after intramuscular injection and poorly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract.\n\nThe minor pathway of elimination is biliary excretion. When the blood serum concentration is 24 µg/ml, the corresponding biliary concentration is 10 µg/ml. In the spinal fluid the concentration of cephaloridine is 6-12% of the concentration in the blood and serum.\nCephaloridine is distributed well into the liver, stomach wall, lung and spleen and is also found in fresh wounds one hour after injection. The concentration in the wound will decrease as the wound age increases. However, the drug is poorly penetrated into the cerebrospinal fluid and is found in a much smaller amount in the cerebral cortex.\n\nWhen cephaloridine is administered to pregnant women, the drug crosses the placenta. Cephaloridine concentrations can be measured in the serum of the newborn up to 22 hours after labor, and can reach a level of 54% of the concentration in the maternal serum. When given an intramuscular dose of 1 g, a peak occurs in the cord blood after 4 hours. In amniotic fluid, the concentration takes about 3 hours to reach its antibacterial effect.\n\nUrine specimens showed that no other microbiologically active metabolites were present except cephaloridine and that cephaloridine is excreted unchanged. \nRenal clearances were reported to be 146-280 ml/min, a plasma clearance of 167 ml/min/1,73m2 and a renal clearance of 125 ml/min/1,73m2. A serum half-life of 1,1-1,5 hour and a volume of distribution of 16 liters were reported.\n\nPharmacokinetic analysis is not possible because appropriate data is not published. The physicochemical properties are almost the same as the other cephalosporins, therefore the pharmacokinetics are comparable.\n\nCephaloridine can cause kidney damage in humans, since it is actively taken up from the blood by the proximal tubular cells via an organic anion transporter (OAT) in the basolateral membrane. Organic anions are secreted through the proximal tubular cells via unidirectional transcellular transport. The organic anions are taken up from the blood into the cells across the basolateral membrane and extruded across the brush border membrane into the tubular fluid. Cephaloridine is a substrate for OAT1 and thus can be transported into the proximal tubular cells, which form the renal cortex. The drugs, however, cannot move readily across the luminal membrane since it is a zwitterion. The cationic group (pyridinium ring) of the compound probably inhibits the efflux through the membrane. This results in an accumulation of cephaloridine in the renal cortex of the kidney, causing damage and necrosis of the S2 segment of the tubule. However, there are no adverse effects on renal function if serum levels of cephaloridine are maintained between 20 and 80 μg/ml.\n\nCephaloridine is excreted in the urine without undergoing metabolism.\nIt inhibits organic ion transport in the kidney. This process is preceded by the lipid peroxidation. Thereafter, probably a combination of events, such as formation of a reactive intermediate, a free radical and stimulation of lipid peroxidation, lead to peroxidative damage to cell membranes and mitochondria. It is not yet clear whether metabolic activation by cytochromes P-450, chemical rearrangements, reductive activation or all these actions are involved.\n\nThe hypotheses made about the mechanism of action causing the toxiciy of cephaloridine are: \n\nSome symptoms caused by cephaloridine are: asymptomatic, enzymuria, proteinuria, tubular necrosis, increased urea level in blood, anemia, increased hydrogen ion level in blood, fatigue, increased blood pressure, increased blood electrolyte level, kidney dysfunction, kidney damage, impaired body water balance and impaired electrolyte balance.\n\nComplications caused by the use of cephaloridine include seizures, coma, chronic kidney failure, acute kidney failure and death.\n\nThe damage of the kidneys can be treated by removing the toxin from the body, monitoring and supporting kidney function (dialysis if necessary) and, in severe cases, kidney transplant. Supportive therapy in the acute phase can be done by fluid, electrolyte and hypertension management. Longer term management includes monitoring of renal function, close management of high blood pressure. Furthermore, dietary management may include protein and sodium management, adequate hydration and phosphate and potassium restriction. In case of chronic renal failure dietary management also includes erythropoietin agonists (since anaemia is associated with chronic renal failure), phosphate binders (in case of hyperphosphatemia), calcium supplements, Vitamin D supplements and sodium bicarbonate (to correct the acid-base disturbance).\n"}
{"id": "9173273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9173273", "title": "Coronal loop", "text": "Coronal loop\n\nCoronal loops form the basic structure of the lower corona and transition region of the Sun. These highly structured loops are a direct consequence of the twisted solar magnetic flux within the solar body. The population of coronal loops can be directly linked with the solar cycle; it is for this reason coronal loops are often found with sunspots at their footpoints. The upwelling magnetic flux pushes through the photosphere, exposing a cooler plasma in footpoints. This plasma is cooler because of the magnetic field radially directed which stop the convective process in these regions. Then heat can't be transported toward the surface by convection, and the contrast between the photosphere and this cooler plasma gives the impression of dark spots, or sunspots.\n\nA coronal loop is magnetic flux fixed at both ends, threading through the solar body, protruding into the solar atmosphere. They are ideal structures to observe when trying to understand the transfer of energy from the solar body, through the transition region and into the corona.\n\nMany scales of coronal loops exist, neighbouring open flux tubes that give way to the solar wind and reach far into the corona and heliosphere. Anchored in the photosphere (a rigid, line-tied, anchor is assumed where the high-β, external plasma holds the loop footpoints in place), coronal loops project through the chromosphere and transition region, extending high into the corona.\n\nAlso, coronal loops have a wide variety of temperatures along their lengths. Loops existing at temperatures below 1 MK are generally known as cool loops, those existing at around 1 MK are known as warm loops, and those beyond 1 MK are known as hot loops. Naturally, these different categories radiate at different wavelengths.\n\nCoronal loops populate both active and quiet regions of the solar surface. Active regions on the solar surface take up small areas but produce the majority of activity and are often the source of flares and Coronal Mass Ejections due to the intense magnetic field present. Active regions produce 82% of the total coronal heating energy. Coronal holes are open field lines located predominantly in the polar regions of the Sun and are known to be the source of the fast solar wind. The quiet Sun makes up the rest of the solar surface. The quiet Sun, although less active than active regions, is awash with dynamic processes and transient events (bright points, nanoflares and jets). As a general rule, the quiet Sun exists in regions of closed magnetic structures, and active regions are highly dynamic sources of explosive events. It is important to note that observations suggest the whole corona is massively populated by open and closed magnetic fieldlines.\n\nA closed fieldline does not constitute a coronal loop; however, closed flux must be \"filled with plasma\" before it can be called a coronal loop. With this in mind, it becomes clear that coronal loops are a rarity on the solar surface, as the majority of closed-flux structures are empty. This means the mechanism that heats the corona and injects chromospheric plasma into the closed magnetic flux is highly localised. The mechanism behind plasma filling, dynamic flows and coronal heating remains a mystery. The mechanism(s) must be stable enough to continue to feed the corona with chromospheric plasma and powerful enough to accelerate and therefore heat the plasma from 6000 K to well over 1 MK over the short distance from the chromosphere and transition region to the corona. This is the very reason coronal loops are targeted for intense study. They are anchored to the photosphere, are fed by chromospheric plasma, protrude into the transition region and exist at coronal temperatures after undergoing intensive heating.\n\nThe idea that the coronal heating problem is solely down to some coronal heating mechanism is misleading. Firstly, the plasma filling over-dense loops is drained directly from the chromosphere. There is no coronal mechanism known that can compress coronal plasma and feed it into coronal loops at coronal altitudes. Secondly, observations of coronal upflows point to a chromospheric source of plasma. The plasma is therefore chromospheric in origin; there must be consideration of this when looking into coronal heating mechanisms. This is a \"chromospheric energization\" and \"coronal heating phenomenon\" possibly linked through a common mechanism.\n\nMany strides have been made by ground-based telescopes (such as the Mauna Loa Solar Observatory, MLSO, in Hawaii) and eclipse observations of the corona, but to escape the obscuring effect of the Earth's atmosphere, space-based observations have become a necessary evolution for solar physics. Beginning with the short (seven-minute) Aerobee rocket flights in 1946 and 1952, spectrograms measured solar EUV and Lyman-α emissions. Basic X-ray observations were attained by 1960 using such rockets. The British Skylark rocket missions from 1959 to 1978 also returned mainly X-ray spectrometer data. Although successful, the rocket missions were very limited in lifetime and payload. During the period of 1962–1975, the satellite series Orbiting Solar Observatory (OSO-1 to OSO-8) were able to gain extended EUV and X-ray spectrometer observations. Then, in 1973, Skylab was launched and began a new multi-wavelength campaign that typified future observatories. This mission lasted only a year and was superseded by the Solar Maximum Mission, which became the first observatory to last the majority of a solar cycle (from 1980 to 1989). A wealth of data was accumulated across the whole range of emission.\n\nThe solar community was rocked by the launch of \"Yohkoh\" (Solar A) from Kagoshima Space Centre in August 1991. It was lost on 14 December 2001 due to battery failure but revolutionised X-ray observations in its decade of operations. \"Yohkoh\" (or \"Sunbeam\") orbited the Earth in an elliptical orbit, observing X-ray and γ-ray emissions from solar phenomena such as solar flares. \"Yohkoh\" carried four instruments. The Bragg Crystal Spectrometer (BCS), the Wide Band Spectrometer (WBS), the Soft X-Ray Telescope (SXT) and the Hard X-Ray Telescope (HXT) were operated by a consortium of scientists from Japan, the USA and the UK. Of particular interest is the SXT instrument for observing X-ray-emitting coronal loops.\n\nThe SXT instrument observed X-rays in the 0.25–4.0 keV range, resolving solar features to 2.5 arc seconds with a temporal resolution of 0.5–2 seconds. SXT was sensitive to plasma in the 2–4 MK temperature range, making it an ideal observational platform to compare with data collected from TRACE coronal loops radiating in the EUV wavelengths.\n\nThe next major step in solar physics came at the launch of the Solar and Heliospheric Observatory (SOHO) in December 1995 from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station in Florida, USA. SOHO originally had an operational lifetime of two years. The mission was extended to March 2007 due to its resounding success, allowing SOHO to observe a complete 11-year solar cycle. SOHO continually faces the Sun holding a slow orbit around the First Lagrangian Point (L1), where the gravitational balance between the Sun and Earth provides a stable position for SOHO to orbit. SOHO is continually eclipsing the Sun from the Earth at a distance of approximately 1.5 million kilometres.\n\nSOHO is managed by scientists from the European Space Agency (ESA) and NASA. Containing more instruments than both TRACE and Yohkoh, this large solar mission was designed to look at the chain from the solar interior, the solar corona to the solar wind. SOHO has 12 instruments on board, including the Coronal Diagnostic Spectrometer (CDS), the Extreme ultraviolet Imaging Telescope (EIT), the Solar Ultraviolet Measurements of Emitted Radiation (SUMER) and the UltraViolet Coronagraph Spectrometer (UVCS), which are all used extensively in the study of the transition region and corona.\n\nThe EIT instrument is used extensively in coronal loop observations. EIT images the transition region through to the inner corona by utilising four band passes, 171 Å FeIX, 195 Å FeXII, 284 Å FeXV and 304 Å HeII, each corresponding to different EUV temperatures, probing the chromospheric network to the lower corona.\n\nThe Transition Region And Coronal Explorer (TRACE) was launched in April 1998 from Vandenberg Air Force Base as part of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center Small Explorer (SMEX) project. The small orbiting instrument has a 30×160 cm, 8.66 m focal length Cassegrain telescope with a 1200×1200px CCD detector. The timing of the launch was planned to coincide with the rising phase of the solar maximum. Observations of the transition region and lower corona could then be carried out in conjunction with SOHO to give an unprecedented view of the solar environment during this exciting phase of the solar cycle.\n\nDue to the high spatial (1 arc second) and temporal resolution (1–5 seconds), TRACE has been able to capture highly detailed images of coronal structures, whilst SOHO provides the global (lower resolution) picture of the Sun. This campaign demonstrates the observatory's ability to track the evolution of steady-state (or quiescent) coronal loops. TRACE utilizes filters that are sensitive to electromagnetic radiation in the 171 Å FeIX, 195 Å FeXII, 284 Å FeXV, 1216 Å HI, 1550 Å CIV and 1600 Å range. Of particular interest are the 171 Å, 195 Å and 284 Å band passes, as they are sensitive to the radiation emitted by quiescent coronal loops.\n\nAll of the above space missions have been highly successful in observing strong plasma flows and highly dynamic processes in coronal loops. For example, SUMER observations suggest flow velocities of 5–16 km/s in the solar disk, and other\njoint SUMER/TRACE observations detect flows of 15–40 km/s. Very high velocities have been detected by the Flat Crystal Spectrometer (FCS) on board the Solar Maximum Mission, where plasma velocities were found in the range of 40–60 km/s.\n\n"}
{"id": "52623851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52623851", "title": "Dewey Loeffel Landfill", "text": "Dewey Loeffel Landfill\n\nThe Dewey Loeffel Landfill is an EPA superfund site located in Rensselaer County, New York. In the 1950s and 1960s, the site was used as a disposal facility for more than 46,000 tons of industrial hazardous wastes, including solvents, waste oils, polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), scrap materials, sludges and solids. Some hazardous substances, including volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and PCBs, have migrated from the facility to underlying aquifers and downstream surface water bodies, resulting in contamination of groundwater, surface water, sediments and several species of fish. There is currently a ban on fish consumption in Nassau Lake and the impacted tributaries. Site investigations are underway to determine the nature and extent of the contamination and inform the development of permanent cleanup options for the site.\n"}
{"id": "54657390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54657390", "title": "Direct Énergie", "text": "Direct Énergie\n\nDirect Énergie is a French international electric utility company, which operates in the fields of electricity generation and distribution, natural gas, and renewable energy. Founded in France in 2003 as an alternative to the historic monopoly Électricité de France, it is present in Belgium through the subsidiary Poweo.\n\nThe group produces electricity and serves 2.1 millions consumers in France and Belgium, both in retail and company-oriented market. It handles 800 MW of electricity production capacity, mainly gas power stations.\n\nFounded in 2003, Direct Énergie made no profit in serving the corporate market nor the household market during its first years of existence. In 2008 is founded Neoen, a subsidiary dedicated to build and operate renewable power stations.\n\nThe group bought 46% of its competitor in 2011, before merging the following year.\n\nIn April 2018, the French energy major Total S.A. claims they are buying 74% of Direct Énergie capital from their main stockholders, for 1,4 billion euros.\n\nDirect Énergie was a partner of the Olympique de Marseille from 2008 to 2010. The company has been the main sponsor of a French pro cycling team since 2016.\n"}
{"id": "19984273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19984273", "title": "Dunaújváros Power Plant", "text": "Dunaújváros Power Plant\n\nThe Dunaújváros Power Plant will be one of Hungary's largest biomass power plants having an installed heat capacity of 160 MW and electric capacity of 50 MW.\n"}
{"id": "15160793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15160793", "title": "Energy Modeling Forum", "text": "Energy Modeling Forum\n\nThe Energy Modeling Forum (EMF) is a structured forum for discussing important issues in energy and the environment. The EMF was established in 1976 at Stanford University. The EMF works through a series of ad hoc working groups, each focussing on a particular corporate or policy decision. The EMF provides a non-partisan platform that ensures objective consideration of opposing views. Participation is by invitation.\n\nSince the late-1990s, the EMF has made contributions to the economics of climate change, as witnessed in the reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and on integrated assessment modeling more generally.\n\nJohn Weyant is the current director of the EMF.\n\nThe EMF was convened in 1976 over concerns that the insights that large-scale energy models could provide policymakers were being overshadowed by the \"plethora of detailed quantitative results\" being disseminated and discussed. As a result, the EMF sought to bring energy modelers together to provide a proper context for their work. Indeed, the EMF was \"formed to foster better communication between the builders and users of energy models in energy planning and policy analysis\". The EMF periodically establishes working groups to conduct studies on selected energy topics. A working group then identifies relevant existing models and sets a series of tests to illuminate the basic structure and behavior of each model. Results are compared and the strengths and weaknesses of each model is documented in a (as of 1982) freely available report.\n\nReports for most of the completed projects are available from the EMF website. Reports since 2006 have sometimes been published exclusively in special editions of (paywalled) academic journals instead.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9877", "title": "Erg", "text": "Erg\n\nThe erg is a unit of energy and work equal to 10 joules. It originated in the centimetre–gram–second (CGS) system of units. It has the symbol \"erg\". The erg is not an SI unit. Its name is derived from \"ergon\" (’έργον), a Greek word meaning \"work\" or \"task\".\n\nAn erg is the amount of work done by a force of one dyne exerted for a distance of one centimeter. In the CGS base units, it is equal to one gram centimeter-squared per second-squared (g·cm/s). It is thus equal to 10 joules or 100 nanojoules (nJ) in SI units. An erg is approximately the amount of work done (or energy consumed) by one common house fly performing one \"push up,\" the leg-bending dip that brings its mouth to the surface on which it stands and back up.\n\nIn 1864, Rudolf Clausius proposed the Greek word (\"\") \"ergon\" for the unit of energy, work and heat. In 1873, a committee of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, including British physicists James Clerk Maxwell and William Thomson recommended the general adoption of the centimetre, the gramme, and the second as fundamental units (C.G.S. System of Units). To distinguish derived units, they recommended using the prefix \"C.G.S. unit of ...\" and requested that the word \"erg\" or \"ergon\" be strictly limited to refer to the \"C.G.S. unit of energy\".\n\nIn 1922, chemist William Draper Harkins proposed the name micri-erg as a convenient unit to measure the surface energy of molecules in surface chemistry. It would equate to 10 erg, the equivalent to 10 joule.\n\nThe erg has not been a valid unit since 1 January 1978 when the EEC ratified a directive of 1971 which implemented the International System (SI) as agreed by the General Conference of Weights and Measures. It is still widely used in astrophysics and sometimes in mechanics. \n\n"}
{"id": "9477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9477", "title": "Europium", "text": "Europium\n\nEuropium is a chemical element with symbol Eu and atomic number 63. It was isolated in 1901 and is named after the continent of Europe. It is a moderately hard, silvery metal which readily oxidizes in air and water. Being a typical member of the lanthanide series, europium usually assumes the oxidation state +3, but the oxidation state +2 is also common. All europium compounds with oxidation state +2 are slightly reducing. Europium has no significant biological role and is relatively non-toxic compared to other heavy metals. Most applications of europium exploit the phosphorescence of europium compounds. Europium is one of the least abundant elements in the universe; only about % of all matter in the universe is europium.\n\nEuropium is a ductile metal with a hardness similar to that of lead. It crystallizes in a body-centered cubic lattice. Some properties of europium are strongly influenced by its half-filled electron shell. Europium has the second lowest melting point and the lowest density of all lanthanides.\n\nEuropium becomes a superconductor when it is cooled below 1.8 K and compressed to above 80 GPa. This is because europium is divalent in the metallic state, and is converted into the trivalent state by the applied pressure. In the divalent state, the strong local magnetic moment (J = /) suppresses the superconductivity, which is induced by eliminating this local moment (J = 0 in Eu).\n\nEuropium is the most reactive rare-earth element. It rapidly oxidizes in air, so that bulk oxidation of a centimeter-sized sample occurs within several days. Its reactivity with water is comparable to that of calcium, and the reaction is\n\nBecause of the high reactivity, samples of solid europium rarely have the shiny appearance of the fresh metal, even when coated with a protective layer of mineral oil. Europium ignites in air at 150 to 180 °C to form europium(III) oxide:\n\nEuropium dissolves readily in dilute sulfuric acid to form pale pink solutions of the hydrated Eu(III), which exist as a nonahydrate:\n\nAlthough usually trivalent, europium readily forms divalent compounds. This behavior is unusual to most lanthanides, which almost exclusively form compounds with an oxidation state of +3. The +2 state has an electron configuration 4\"f\" because the half-filled \"f\"-shell gives more stability. In terms of size and coordination number, europium(II) and barium(II) are similar. For example, the sulfates of both barium and europium(II) are also highly insoluble in water. Divalent europium is a mild reducing agent, oxidizing in air to form Eu(III) compounds. In anaerobic, and particularly geothermal conditions, the divalent form is sufficiently stable that it tends to be incorporated into minerals of calcium and the other alkaline earths. This ion-exchange process is the basis of the \"negative europium anomaly\", the low europium content in many lanthanide minerals such as monazite, relative to the chondritic abundance. Bastnäsite tends to show less of a negative europium anomaly than does monazite, and hence is the major source of europium today. The development of easy methods to separate divalent europium from the other (trivalent) lanthanides made europium accessible even when present in low concentration, as it usually is.\n\nNaturally occurring europium is composed of 2 isotopes, Eu and Eu, with Eu being the most abundant (52.2% natural abundance). While Eu is stable, Eu was recently found to be unstable to alpha decay with half-life of , giving about 1 alpha decay per two minutes in every kilogram of natural europium. This value is in reasonable agreement with theoretical predictions. Besides the natural radioisotope Eu, 35 artificial radioisotopes have been characterized, the most stable being Eu with a half-life of 36.9 years, Eu with a half-life of 13.516 years, and Eu with a half-life of 8.593 years. All the remaining radioactive isotopes have half-lives shorter than 4.7612 years, and the majority of these have half-lives shorter than 12.2 seconds. This element also has 8 meta states, with the most stable being Eu (\"t\"=12.8 hours), Eu (\"t\"=9.3116 hours) and Eu (\"t\"=96 minutes).\n\nThe primary decay mode for isotopes lighter than Eu is electron capture, and the primary mode for heavier isotopes is beta minus decay. The primary decay products before Eu are isotopes of samarium (Sm) and the primary products after are isotopes of gadolinium (Gd).\n\nEuropium is produced by nuclear fission, but the fission product yields of europium isotopes are low near the top of the mass range for fission products.\n\nLike other lanthanides, many isotopes, especially isotopes with odd mass numbers and neutron-poor isotopes like Eu, have high cross sections for neutron capture, often high enough to be neutron poisons.\n\nEu is the beta decay product of samarium-151, but since this has a long decay half-life and short mean time to neutron absorption, most Sm instead ends up as Sm.\n\nEu (half-life 13.516 years) and Eu (half-life 8.593 years) cannot be beta decay products because Sm and Sm are non-radioactive, but Eu is the only long-lived \"shielded\" nuclide, other than Cs, to have a fission yield of more than 2.5 parts per million fissions. A larger amount of Eu is produced by neutron activation of a significant portion of the non-radioactive Eu; however, much of this is further converted to Eu.\n\nEu (half-life 4.7612 years) has a fission yield of 330 parts per million (ppm) for uranium-235 and thermal neutrons; most of it is transmuted to non-radioactive and nonabsorptive gadolinium-156 by the end of fuel burnup.\n\nOverall, europium is overshadowed by caesium-137 and strontium-90 as a radiation hazard, and by samarium and others as a neutron poison.\n\nEuropium is not found in nature as a free element. Many minerals contain europium, with the most important sources being bastnäsite, monazite, xenotime and loparite-(Ce). No europium-dominant minerals are known yet, despite of a single find of a tiny possible Eu–O or Eu–O–C system phase in the Moon's regolith.\n\nDepletion or enrichment of europium in minerals relative to other rare-earth elements is known as the europium anomaly. Europium is commonly included in trace element studies in geochemistry and petrology to understand the processes that form igneous rocks (rocks that cooled from magma or lava). The nature of the europium anomaly found helps reconstruct the relationships within a suite of igneous rocks.\n\nDivalent europium (Eu) in small amounts is the activator of the bright blue fluorescence of some samples of the mineral fluorite (CaF). The reduction from Eu to Eu is induced by irradiation with energetic particles. The most outstanding examples of this originated around Weardale and adjacent parts of northern England; it was the fluorite found here that fluorescence was named after in 1852, although it was not until much later that europium was determined to be the cause.\n\nEuropium is associated with the other rare-earth elements and is, therefore, mined together with them. Separation of the rare-earth elements is a step in the later processing. Rare-earth elements are found in the minerals bastnäsite, loparite-(Ce), xenotime, and monazite in mineable quantities. Bastnäsite is a group of related fluorocarbonates, Ln(CO)(F,OH). Monazite is a group of related of orthophosphate minerals (Ln denotes a mixture of all the lanthanides except promethium), loparite-(Ce) is an oxide, and xenotime is an orthophosphate (Y,Yb,Er...)PO. Monazite also contains thorium and yttrium, which complicates handling because thorium and its decay products are radioactive. For the extraction from the ore and the isolation of individual lanthanides, several methods have been developed. The choice of method is based on the concentration and composition of the ore and on the distribution of the individual lanthanides in the resulting concentrate. Roasting the ore and subsequent acidic and basic leaching is used mostly to produce a concentrate of lanthanides. If cerium is the dominant lanthanide, then it is converted from cerium(III) to cerium(IV) and then precipitated. Further separation by solvent extractions or ion exchange chromatography yields a fraction which is enriched in europium. This fraction is reduced with zinc, zinc/amalgam, electrolysis or other methods converting the europium(III) to europium(II). Europium(II) reacts in a way similar to that of alkaline earth metals and therefore it can be precipitated as carbonate or is co-precipitated with barium sulfate. Europium metal is available through the electrolysis of a mixture of molten EuCl and NaCl (or CaCl) in a graphite cell, which serves as cathode, using graphite as anode. The other product is chlorine gas.\n\nA few large deposits produce or produced a significant amount of the world production. The Bayan Obo iron ore deposit contains significant amounts of bastnäsite and monazite and is, with an estimated 36 million tonnes of rare-earth element oxides, the largest known deposit. The mining operations at the Bayan Obo deposit made China the largest supplier of rare-earth elements in the 1990s. Only 0.2% of the rare-earth element content is europium. The second large source for rare-earth elements between 1965 and its closure in the late 1990s was the Mountain Pass rare earth mine. The bastnäsite mined there is especially rich in the light rare-earth elements (La-Gd, Sc, and Y) and contains only 0.1% of europium. Another large source for rare-earth elements is the loparite found on the Kola peninsula. It contains besides niobium, tantalum and titanium up to 30% rare-earth elements and is the largest source for these elements in Russia.\n\nEuropium compounds tend to exist trivalent oxidation state under most conditions. Commonly these compounds feature Eu(III) bound by 6–9 oxygenic ligands, typically water. These compounds, the chlorides, sulfates, nitrates, are soluble in water or polar organic solvent. Lipophilic europium complexes often feature acetylacetonate-like ligands, e.g., Eufod.\n\nEuropium metal reacts with all the halogens:\nThis route gives white europium(III) fluoride (EuF), yellow europium(III) chloride (EuCl), gray europium(III) bromide (EuBr), and colorless europium(III) iodide (EuI). Europium also forms the corresponding dihalides: yellow-green europium(II) fluoride (EuF), colorless europium(II) chloride (EuCl), colorless europium(II) bromide (EuBr), and green europium(II) iodide (EuI).\n\nEuropium forms stable compounds with all of the chalcogens, but the heavier chalcogens (S, Se, and Te) stabilize the lower oxidation state. Three oxides are known: europium(II) oxide (EuO), europium(III) oxide (EuO), and the mixed-valence oxide EuO, consisting of both Eu(II) and Eu(III).\nOtherwise, the main chalcogenides are europium(II) sulfide (EuS), europium(II) selenide (EuSe) and europium(II) telluride (EuTe): all three of these are black solids. EuS is prepared by sulfiding the oxide at temperatures sufficiently high to decompose the EuO:\nThe main nitride is europium(III) nitride (EuN).\n\nAlthough europium is present in most of the minerals containing the other rare elements, due to the difficulties in separating the elements it was not until the late 1800s that the element was isolated. William Crookes observed the phosphorescent spectra of the rare elements including those eventually assigned to europium.\n\nEuropium was first found in 1892 by Paul Émile Lecoq de Boisbaudran, who obtained basic fractions from samarium-gadolinium concentrates which had spectral lines not accounted for by samarium or gadolinium. However, the discovery of europium is generally credited to French chemist Eugène-Anatole Demarçay, who suspected samples of the recently discovered element samarium were contaminated with an unknown element in 1896 and who was able to isolate it in 1901; he then named it \"europium\".\n\nWhen the europium-doped yttrium orthovanadate red phosphor was discovered in the early 1960s, and understood to be about to cause a revolution in the color television industry, there was a scramble for the limited supply of europium on hand among the monazite processors, as the typical europium content in monazite is about 0.05%. However, the Molycorp bastnäsite deposit at the Mountain Pass rare earth mine, California, whose lanthanides had an unusually high europium content of 0.1%, was about to come on-line and provide sufficient europium to sustain the industry. Prior to europium, the color-TV red phosphor was very weak, and the other phosphor colors had to be muted, to maintain color balance. With the brilliant red europium phosphor, it was no longer necessary to mute the other colors, and a much brighter color TV picture was the result. Europium has continued to be in use in the TV industry ever since as well as in computer monitors. Californian bastnäsite now faces stiff competition from Bayan Obo, China, with an even \"richer\" europium content of 0.2%.\n\nFrank Spedding, celebrated for his development of the ion-exchange technology that revolutionized the rare-earth industry in the mid-1950s, once related the story of how he was lecturing on the rare earths in the 1930s, when an elderly gentleman approached him with an offer of a gift of several pounds of europium oxide. This was an unheard-of quantity at the time, and Spedding did not take the man seriously. However, a package duly arrived in the mail, containing several pounds of genuine europium oxide. The elderly gentleman had turned out to be Herbert Newby McCoy, who had developed a famous method of europium purification involving redox chemistry.\n\nRelative to most other elements, commercial applications for europium are few and rather specialized. Almost invariably, its phosphorescence is exploited, either in the +2 or +3 oxidation state.\n\nIt is a dopant in some types of glass in lasers and other optoelectronic devices. Europium oxide (EuO) is widely used as a red phosphor in television sets and fluorescent lamps, and as an activator for yttrium-based phosphors. Color TV screens contain between 0.5 and 1 g of europium oxide. Whereas trivalent europium gives red phosphors, the luminescence of divalent europium depends strongly on the composition of the host structure. UV to deep red luminescence can be achieved. The two classes of europium-based phosphor (red and blue), combined with the yellow/green terbium phosphors give \"white\" light, the color temperature of which can be varied by altering the proportion or specific composition of the individual phosphors. This phosphor system is typically encountered in helical fluorescent light bulbs. Combining the same three classes is one way to make trichromatic systems in TV and computer screens. Europium is also used in the manufacture of fluorescent glass. One of the more common persistent after-glow phosphors besides copper-doped zinc sulfide is europium-doped strontium aluminate. Europium fluorescence is used to interrogate biomolecular interactions in drug-discovery screens. It is also used in the anti-counterfeiting phosphors in euro banknotes.\nAn application that has almost fallen out of use with the introduction of affordable superconducting magnets is the use of europium complexes, such as Eu(fod), as shift reagents in NMR spectroscopy. Chiral shift reagents, such as Eu(hfc), are still used to determine enantiomeric purity.\n\nA recent (2015) application of europium is in quantum memory chips which can reliably store information for days at a time; these could allow sensitive quantum data to be stored to a hard disk-like device and shipped around the country.\n\nThere are no clear indications that europium is particularly toxic compared to other heavy metals. Europium chloride, nitrate and oxide have been tested for toxicity: europium chloride shows an acute intraperitoneal LD toxicity of 550 mg/kg and the acute oral LD toxicity is 5000 mg/kg. Europium nitrate shows a slightly higher intraperitoneal LD toxicity of 320 mg/kg, while the oral toxicity is above 5000 mg/kg. The metal dust presents a fire and explosion hazard.\n\n"}
{"id": "8036817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8036817", "title": "Fluidyne engine", "text": "Fluidyne engine\n\nA Fluidyne engine is an alpha or gamma type Stirling engine with one or more liquidpistons. It contains a working gas (often air), and either two liquid pistons or one liquid piston and a displacer.\n\nThe engine was invented in 1969.\nThe engine was patented in 1973 by the Atomic Energy Authority UK.\n\nWorking gas in the engine is heated, and this causes it to expand and push on the water column. This expansion cools the air which contracts, at the same time being pushed back by the weight of the displaced water column. The cycle then repeats.\n\nThe U-tube version has no moving parts in the engine other than the water and air, although there are two check valves in the pump. This engine operates at a natural resonance cycle that is \"tuned\" by adjusting the geometry, generally with a \"tuning tube\" of water.\n\nIn the classic configuration, the work produced via the water pistons is integrated with a water pump. The simple pump is external to the engine, and consists of two check valves, one on the intake and one on the outlet. In the engine, the loop of oscillating liquid can be thought of as acting as a displacer piston. The liquid in the single tube extending to the pump acts as the power piston. Traditionally the pump is open to the atmosphere, and the hydraulic head is small, so that the absolute engine pressure is close to atmospheric pressure.\n\nThe videos show operation of a U-tube type model Fluidyne engine. Hot pipe is heated by a heat gun, and water column oscillation builds up to a steady-state level. Second video shows a detail of the actual water displacement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14446614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14446614", "title": "Frank–Read source", "text": "Frank–Read source\n\nIn materials science, a Frank–Read source is a mechanism explaining the generation of multiple dislocations in specific well-spaced slip planes in crystals when they are deformed. When a crystal is deformed, in order for slip to occur, dislocations must be generated in the material. This implies that, during deformation, dislocations must be primarily generated in these planes. Cold working of metal increases the number of dislocations by the Frank–Read mechanism. Higher dislocation density increases yield strength and causes work hardening of metals.\n\nIt was proposed by and named after British physicist Charles Frank and Thornton Read.\n\nCharles Frank detailed the history of the discovery from his perspective in \"Proceedings of the Royal Society\" in 1980. In 1950 Charles Frank, who was then a research fellow in the physics department at the University of Bristol, visited the United States to participate in a conference on crystal plasticity in Pittsburgh. Frank arrived in the United States well in advance of the conference to spend time at a naval laboratory and to give a lecture at Cornell University. When, during his travels in Pennsylvania, Frank visited Pittsburgh, he received a letter from fellow scientist Jock Eshelby suggesting that he read a recent paper by Gunther Leibfried. Frank was supposed to board a train to Cornell to give his lecture at Cornell, but before departing for Cornell he went to the library at Carnegie Institute of Technology to obtain a copy of the paper. The library did not yet have the journal with Leibfried's paper, but the staff at the library believed that the journal could be in the recently arrived package from Germany. Frank decided to wait for the library to open the package, which did indeed contain the journal. Upon reading the paper he took a train to Cornell, where he was told to pass the time until 5:00, as the faculty was in meeting. Frank decided to take a walk between 3:00 and 5:00. During those two hours, while considering the Leibfried paper, he formulated the theory for what was later named the Frank–Read source. A couple of days later, he traveled to the conference on crystal plasticity in Pittsburgh where he ran into Thorton Read in the hotel lobby. Upon encountering each other, the two scientists immediately discovered that they had come up with the same idea for dislocation generation almost simultaneously (Frank during his walk at Cornell, and Thornton Read during tea the previous Wednesday) and decided to write a joint paper on the topic. The mechanism for dislocation generation described in that paper is now known as the Frank–Read source.\n\nThe Frank–Read source is a mechanism based on dislocation multiplication in a slip plane under shear stress.\n\nConsider a straight dislocation in a crystal slip plane with its two ends, A and B, pinned. If a shear stress formula_1 is exerted on the slip plane then a force formula_2, where \"b\" is the Burgers vector of the dislocation and \"x\" is the distance between the pinning sites A and B, is exerted on the dislocation line as a result of the shear stress. This force acts perpendicularly to the line, inducing the dislocation to lengthen and curve into an arc. The bending force caused by the shear stress is opposed by the line tension of the dislocation, which acts on each end of the dislocation along the direction of the dislocation line away from A and B with a magnitude of formula_3, where G is the shear modulus. If the dislocation bends, the ends of the dislocation make an angle with the horizontal between A and B, which gives the line tensions acting along the ends a vertical component acting directly against the force induced by the shear stress. If sufficient shear stress is applied and the dislocation bends, the vertical component from the line tensions, which acts directly against the force caused by the shear stress, grows as the dislocation approaches a semicircular shape. When the dislocation becomes a semicircle, all of the line tension is acting against the bending force induced by the shear stress, because the line tension is perpendicular to the horizontal between A and B. For the dislocation to reach this point, it is thus evident that the equation:\n\nmust be satisfied, and from this we can solve for the shear stress:\n\nThis is the stress required to generate dislocation from a Frank–Read source. If the shear stress increases any further and the dislocation passes the semicircular equilibrium state, it will spontaneously continue to bend and grow, spiraling around the A and B pinning points, until the segments spiraling around the A and B pinning points collide and cancel. The process results in a dislocation loop around A and B in the slip plane which expands under continued shear stress, and also in a new dislocation line between A and B which, under renewed or continued shear, can continue to generate dislocation loops in the manner just described. A Frank–Read loop can thus generate many dislocations in a plane in a crystal under applied stress. The Frank–Read source mechanism explains why dislocations are primarily generated on certain slip planes; dislocations are primarily generated in just those planes with Frank–Read sources. It is important to note that if the shear stress does not exceed:\n\nand the dislocation does not bend past the semicircular equilibrium state, it will not form a dislocation loop and instead revert to its original state.\n"}
{"id": "2256164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256164", "title": "Hellfighters (film)", "text": "Hellfighters (film)\n\nHellfighters is a 1968 American action film starring John Wayne and featuring Katharine Ross, Bruce Cabot, Jim Hutton, Jay C. Flippen and Vera Miles. The film, directed by Andrew V. McLaglen, is about a group of oil well firefighters, based loosely on the life of Red Adair. Adair, \"Boots\" Hansen, and \"Coots\" Matthews, who served as technical advisers on the film.\n\n\"Hellfighters\" was for the most part negatively received.\n\nChance Buckman is the head of a Houston–based oil well firefighting outfit. With a team that includes Joe Horn, Greg Parker, and George Harris, Chance travels around the world putting out blazes at well heads from industrial accident, explosion or terrorist attack. Chance enjoys the thrills, but longs for ex-wife Madelyn. She divorced him 20 years earlier, taking their daughter Letitia with her, because Madelyn could not bear to see her husband risk his life. Though they love each other, Madelyn could not deal with her terror that Chance might burn to death in a fire.\n\nWhile extinguishing a burning wellhead, Chance suffers a near-fatal accident when he is crushed by a bulldozer blade. Against his wishes, his daughter Letitia (Tish) visits him in the hospital, summoned by his old friend and former firefighting partner Jack Lomax and fetched by Greg Parker in The Buckman Company's corporate jet. She also pursues Greg Parker to a well fire in Louisiana. (Greg has a notorious reputation for using fires to pick up women. Generally, any woman he takes to a fire ends up in bed with him.) In the case of Buckman's spitfire of a daughter, however, after considerable initial friction Greg and Tish fall in love and marry five days after their first meeting. In spite of Greg's reputation, Buckman comes to trust his daughter's choice and accepts Greg into the family. Madelyn, projecting her own fears onto her daughter, though gracious is rather less accepting, despite her liking for Greg.\n\nGreg suspects that his new father-in-law is growing increasingly protective of him after the marriage in an effort to protect his daughter from heartbreak should her new husband be harmed or killed. Tish wishes to see the fires that her husband and father fight, something that neither man encourages. Her father relents and allows her to accompany Greg into the field.\n\nChance, trying to re-unite with his ex-wife, leaves The Buckman Company to accept an executive position with his old friend Jack Lomax on the board of directors of Lomax Oil as a way to win her back. Chance gives his company to his son-in-law as a \"wedding present\", although Greg's pride compels him to tell Buckman he \"doesn't want any gifts\" and that he will \"pay \"twice\" what it's worth.\" Greg and Tish begin traveling the world to put out oil fires. Soon the older couple announce that they will remarry, to the delight of Tish. Madelyn is happy to see her husband in a safe job, but before too long Chance becomes bored with corporate life and longs to be back in the field. As Jack Lomax earlier told Tish, \"Your father is the best there is at what he does. No man can walk away from that.\"\n\nGreg encounters problems with a fire in Venezuela: five oil wells in a tight line burning all at once, further compounded by guerrillas who are trying to undermine the operation. He asks Chance to return and help fight the fire. Chance does so without hesitation. Buckman goes to Venezuela in an Texas Air National Guard transport full of firefighting gear, unaware that Madelyn and Tish have followed him to Caracas. Madelyn uses Jack Lomax's influence with the President of Venezuela to get herself and Tish to the oilfield where the fire is burning. Madelyn declares \"This is it for me,\" in the sense that it will either make or break her ability to deal with the fires once and for all, fully aware that her relationship with Chance is on the line. \n\nThe Hellfighters put out the fires with the help of the Venezuelan Army while under attack by rebel warplanes that strafe the oilfield. Madelyn explodes in anger at what she perceives as the Venezuelans' inability to protect the team from the unexpected air raid, railing at the Venezuelan army and civil officials for allowing the guerrillas to get close enough to attack. Chance pulls her away during her tirade. She snaps, \"Damned if I understand your attitude!\", to which he replies, \"It's very simple — you'll do.\" When Greg asks Tish for her take on it, she just smiles and says, \"I think we ought to get her a tin hat,\" referring to the bright red hardhats with The Buckman Company logo worn by the Hellfighters.\n\n\nRed Adair had been fighting fires since 1946. He was well known in the industry but became more generally known in 1962 after extinguishing a Sahara Desert gas well fire called \"the devil's cigarette lighter\". Clair Huffaker wrote an original script which was bought by Universal in February 1967. Robert Arthur was assigned to produce. John Wayne agreed to star in November 1967. \n\nWayne made the film after \"The Green Berets\". It reteamed him with Andrew McLaglen, with whom Wayne had made \"McLintock!\" (1963), and Jim Hutton, who had been in \"The Green Berets\".\n\nThis was the first film for which Wayne was paid $1 million. Unlike many of Wayne's films around this time it was not made for his own company. \n\nMuch of the filming took place in Houston, Texas and the surrounding area; headquarters for the Red Adair Company, Inc.\n\nDuring filming, a catering truck crashed into Wayne's trailer while the star was inside. However, he was not injured.\n\n\"Hellfighters\" received mostly negative reviews, garnering a 14% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. Roger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" described the film as a \"slow moving, talkative, badly plotted bore\". A. H. Weiler of \"The New York Times\" wrote that John Wayne made \"actionful, if not stirringly meaningful, child's play of exotic disasters\" and remarked that \"the unrestrained cast and director maintain a welcome sense of humor\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3932408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3932408", "title": "Horse-drawn vehicle", "text": "Horse-drawn vehicle\n\nA horse-drawn vehicle is a mechanized piece of equipment pulled by one horse or by a team of horses. These vehicles typically had two or four wheels and were used to carry passengers and/or a load. They were once common worldwide, but they have mostly been replaced by automobiles and other forms of self-propelled transport.\n\nA two-wheeled horse-drawn vehicle is a cart (see various types below, both for carrying people and for goods). Four-wheeled vehicles have many names – one for heavy loads is most commonly called a wagon.\n\nVery light carts and wagons can also be pulled by donkeys (much smaller than horses), ponies or mules. Other smaller animals are occasionally used, such as large dogs, llamas and goats (see draught animals).\n\nHeavy wagons, carts and agricultural implements can also be pulled by other large draught animals such as oxen, water buffalo, yaks or even camels and elephants.\n\nVehicles pulled by one animal (or by animals in a single file) have two \"shafts\" which attach either side of the rearmost animal (the \"wheel\" animal or \"wheeler\"). Two animals in single file are referred to as a \"tandem\" arrangement, and three as a \"randem\". Vehicles which are pulled by a pair (or by a team of several pairs) have a \"pole\" which attaches between the wheel pair. Other arrangements are also possible, for example, three or more abreast (a \"troika\"), a wheel pair with a single lead animal (a \"unicorn\"), or a wheel pair with three lead animals abreast (a \"pickaxe\"). Very heavy loads sometimes had an additional team behind to slow the vehicle down steep hills. Sometimes at a steep hill with frequent traffic, such a team would be hired to passing wagons to help them up or down the hill. Horse-drawn carriages have been in use for at least 3,500 years.\n\nTwo-wheeled vehicles are balanced by the distribution of weight of the load (driver, passengers, and goods) over the axle, and then held level by the animal – this means that the shafts (or sometimes a pole for two animals) must be fixed rigidly to the vehicle's body. Four-wheeled vehicles remain level on their own, and so the shafts or pole are hinged vertically, allowing them to rise and fall with the movement of the animals. A four-wheeled vehicle is also steered by the shafts or pole, which are attached to the front axle; this swivels on a \"turntable\" or \"fifth wheel\" beneath the vehicle.\n\nFrom the 15th century drivers of carts were known as Carmen, and in London were represented by the Worshipful Company of Carmen.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43431600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43431600", "title": "Kahn system", "text": "Kahn system\n\nThe Kahn system is an industrial construction technique for reinforcement of buildings that was engineered and patented by Julius Kahn. The Kahn system is an industrial construction design using the Kahn Trussed Bar as the bases. This steel bar was a new type of reinforcing bar used in concrete and had unique engineered features to distribute stress.\n\nKahn saw problems with the concrete reinforcement systems used in building construction at the end of the 19th century. The existing technique of construction of the time was using concrete with a plain straight steel in the center of a concrete beam. The steel in the concrete would slip if there was even the tiniest bit of room between the hardened concrete and the steel and it would break adhesion. The main reinforcing bar had plain steel beam members rigidly attached to it. This diagonal tension fractured the reinforcing bar beams since the adhesion was broken. This caused weakness in the concrete/steel reinforced beam and a failure that could cause catastrophic results. The problem was that the plain steel beam separated from the concrete causing a failure since the two materials were no longer working together for strength.\n\nA reinforced beam bar in the early 1900s consisted of a plain straight steel in the center of a molded concrete form. The beam would fail along the lines of principal stresses in the concrete through shearing. The plain straight steel was placed into an encased mold and concrete was poured in. This formulated mixture of steel and concrete then hardened and became the reinforced beam bar. But in some cases there was a tiny air gap between the steel and the hardened concrete which allowed the steel to move and slip. This weakened the reinforced beam from its original full strength capability. This meant then this weakened fractured beam could fail and break under the heavy load of the building it was supporting.\n\nKahn discovered that concrete was much stronger in compression than tension, so devised the idea of distributing the stresses. He did scientific engineering experiments and created the concept that if the steel beam edges were bent back at a 45-degree angle forming projecting tabs or \"wings\" before going into the molded form led to better stress distribution. The winged sheared members are cut and turned up to form an angle from the thin edge of the steel bar but are still permanently attached. When the wet concrete mixture was poured and hardened there was no slippage of the steel beam because the tension stress is distributed throughout the beam.\n\nThis new style constructed steel beam was called \"the Kahn trussed bar\", sometimes shortened to just \"the Kahn bar\". The trussed steel bar had bent-up \"wings\" on each side. The \"wings\" on the steel bar provided 20–30% additional strength to a reinforced concrete beam over the old technology of plain straight smooth steel bars or rods. The primary concept of the Kahn bar was that it gave reinforcement in both the vertical and horizontal plane while it simplified construction. The principal lines of shear stresses in a beam average a 45-degree angle, so the angled \"wings\" transmitted the tension down to the main reinforcing steel beam.\n\nThe Kahn bar is of high grade steel with an elastic limit of 42,000 pounds and tensile strength of 70,000 pounds per square inch. Kahn formed his own company in 1903 called Trussed Concrete Steel Company (aka \"Truscon Steel Company\") located in Youngstown, Ohio, to manufacture these special steel bars used in reinforced concrete beams.\n\nAnother new engineered innovation of Kahn was steel forms built with \"ribs\" instead of \"wings\". It was a derivative from Kahn's 1903 patent. This advanced technology was marketed by the Trussed Concrete Steel Company with the brand name of Hy-Rib products. The Kahn System of reinforced concrete is the first time an automobile factory was constructed; it was for Packard automobile factory plant building number 10 designed in 1903–05. The Kahn system of reinforcement products had been used in over 1500 buildings in the United States by 1907.\n\nKahn's patented invention is a steel bar of 45-degree diagonal \"wings\" as several minor members that are rigidly attached to the main member. The idea of the \"wing\" technique is that the stresses are distributed throughout the main reinforced beam. The steel then doesn't slip within the hardened concrete.\n\nAnother significant feature of the Kahn Trussed Bar and Kahn System of reinforced concrete was its resistance to fire.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22132096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22132096", "title": "Laser ablation synthesis in solution", "text": "Laser ablation synthesis in solution\n\nLaser ablation synthesis in solution (LASiS) is a commonly used method for obtaining colloidal solution of nanoparticles in a variety of solvents.\n\nIn the LASiS method, nanoparticles are produced during the condensation of a plasma plume formed by the laser ablation of a bulk metal plate dipped in a liquid solution. LASiS is usually considered a top-down physical approach. In the past years, laser ablation synthesis in solution (LASiS) emerged as a reliable alternative to traditional chemical reduction methods for obtaining noble metal nanoparticles (NMNp). \n\nLASiS is a technique for the synthesis of stable NMNp in water or in organic solvents, which does not need stabilizing molecules or other chemicals. The so obtained NMNp are highly available for further functionalization or can be used wherever unprotected metal nanoparticles are desired. \n\nSurface functionalization of NMNp can be monitored in real time by UV-visible spectroscopy of the plasmon resonance. However, LASiS has some limitations in the size control of NMNp, which can be overcome by laser treatments of NMNp.\n"}
{"id": "43644671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43644671", "title": "List of gold mining disasters", "text": "List of gold mining disasters\n\nThis is a list of gold mining disasters resulting from dam failure, cyanide leaking into the environment and inappropriate toxic waste discharge related to gold mining using the gold cyanidation technique.\n\n"}
{"id": "46592456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46592456", "title": "List of mountains of the Falkland Islands", "text": "List of mountains of the Falkland Islands\n\nThis is a list of the mountains of the Falkland Islands\n\n"}
{"id": "43654989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43654989", "title": "Lode coordinates", "text": "Lode coordinates\n\nLode coordinates formula_1 or Haigh–Westergaard coordinates formula_2. are a set of tensor invariants that span the space of real, symmetric, second-order, 3-dimensional tensors and are isomorphic with respect to principal stress space. This right-handed orthogonal coordinate system is named in honor of the German scientist Dr. Walter Lode because of his seminal paper written in 1926 describing the effect of the middle principal stress on metal plasticity. Other examples of sets of tensor invariants are the set of principal stresses formula_3 or the set of mechanics invariants formula_4. The Lode coordinate system can be described as a cylindrical coordinate system within principal stress space with a coincident origin and the z-axis parallel to the vector formula_5.\n\nThe Lode coordinates are most easily computed using the mechanics invariants. These invariants are a mixture of the invariants of the Cauchy stress tensor, formula_6, and the stress deviator, formula_7, and are given by\n\nwhich can be written equivalently in Einstein notation\n\nwhere formula_14 is the Levi-Civita symbol (or permutation symbol) and the last two forms for formula_15 are equivalent because formula_7 is symmetric (formula_17).\n\nThe gradients of these invariants can be calculated by\n\nwhere formula_21 is the 3x3 identity matrix and formula_22 is called the Hill tensor.\n\nThe formula_24-coordinate is found by calculating the magnitude of the orthogonal projection of the stress state onto the hydrostatic axis.\n\nwhere\n\nis the unit normal in the direction of the hydrostatic axis.\n\nThe formula_28-coordinate is found by calculating the magnitude of the stress deviator (the orthogonal projection of the stress state into the deviatoric plane).\n\nwhere\n\nis a unit tensor in the direction of the radial component.\n\nThe Lode angle can be considered, rather loosely, a measure of loading type. The Lode angle varies with respect to the middle eigenvalue of the stress. There are many definitions of Lode angle that each utilize different trigonometric functions: the positive sine, negative sine, and positive cosine (here denoted formula_32, formula_33, and formula_34, respectively)\n\nand are related by\n\nThese definitions are all defined for a range of formula_37.\n\nThe unit normal in the angular direction which completes the orthonormal basis can be calculated for formula_32 and formula_34 using\n\nThe meridional profile is a 2D plot of formula_41 holding formula_42 constant and is sometimes plotted using scalar multiples of formula_41. It is commonly used to demonstrate the pressure dependence of a yield surface or the pressure-shear trajectory of a stress path. Because formula_28 is non-negative the plot usually omits the negative portion of the formula_28-axis, but can be included to illustrate effects at opposing Lode angles (usually triaxial extension and triaxial compression).\n\nOne of the benefits of plotting the meridional profile with formula_41 is that it is a geometrically accurate depiction of the yield surface. If a non-isomorphic pair is used for the meridional profile then the normal to the yield surface will not appear normal in the meridional profile. Any pair of coordinates that differ from formula_41 by constant multiples of equal absolute value are also isomorphic with respect to principal stress space. As an example, pressure formula_48 and the Von Mises stress formula_49 are not an isomorphic coordinate pair and, therefore, distort the yield surface because\n\nand, finally, formula_52.\n\nThe octahedral profile is a 2D plot of formula_53 holding formula_24 constant. Plotting the yield surface in the octahedral plane demonstrates the level of Lode angle dependence. The octahedral plane is sometimes referred to as the 'pi plane' or 'deviatoric plane'.\n\nThe octahedral profile is not necessarily constant for different values of pressure with the notable exceptions of the von Mises yield criterion and the Tresca yield criterion which are constant for all values of pressure.\n\nThe term \"Haigh-Westergaard space\" is ambiguously used in the literature to mean both the Cartesian principal stress space and the cylindrical Lode coordinate space\n\n"}
{"id": "1070395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1070395", "title": "Magnon", "text": "Magnon\n\nA magnon is a quasiparticle, a collective excitation of the electrons' spin structure in a crystal lattice. In the equivalent wave picture of quantum mechanics, a magnon can be viewed as a quantized spin wave. Magnons carry a fixed amount of energy and lattice momentum, and are spin-1, indicating they obey boson behavior.\n\nThe concept of a magnon was introduced in 1930 by Felix Bloch in order to explain the reduction of the spontaneous magnetization in a ferromagnet. At absolute zero temperature (0 K), a Heisenberg ferromagnet reaches the state of lowest energy (so-called ground state), in which all of the atomic spins (and hence magnetic moments) point in the same direction. As the temperature increases, more and more spins deviate randomly from the alignment, increasing the internal energy and reducing the net magnetization. If one views the perfectly magnetized state at zero temperature as the vacuum state of the ferromagnet, the low-temperature state with a few misaligned spins can be viewed as a gas of quasiparticles, in this case magnons. Each magnon reduces the total spin along the direction of magnetization by one unit of formula_1 (reduced Planck's constant) and the magnetization by formula_2, where formula_3 is the gyromagnetic ratio. This leads to Bloch's law for the temperature dependence of spontaneous magnetization:\n\nformula_4\n\nwhere formula_5 is the (material dependent) critical temperature, and formula_6 is the magnitude of the spontaneous magnetization.\n\nThe quantitative theory of magnons, quantized spin waves, was developed further by Theodore Holstein, Henry Primakoff (1940), and Freeman Dyson (1956). Using the second quantization formalism they showed that magnons behave as weakly interacting quasiparticles obeying Bose–Einstein statistics (bosons). A comprehensive treatment can be found in the solid state textbook by Charles Kittel or the early review article by Van Kranendonk and Van Vleck.\n\nDirect experimental detection of magnons by inelastic neutron scattering in ferrite was achieved in 1957 by Bertram Brockhouse. Since then magnons have been detected in ferromagnets, ferrimagnets, and antiferromagnets.\n\nThe fact that magnons obey the Bose–Einstein statistics was confirmed by the light scattering experiments done during the 1960s through the 1980s. Classical theory predicts equal intensity of Stokes and anti-Stokes lines. However, the scattering showed that if the magnon energy is comparable to or smaller than the thermal energy, or formula_7, then the Stokes line becomes more intense, as follows from Bose–Einstein statistics. Bose–Einstein condensation of magnons was proven in an antiferromagnet at low temperatures by Nikuni \"et al.\" and in a ferrimagnet by Demokritov \"et al.\" at room temperature. Recently Uchida \"et al.\" reported the generation of spin currents by surface plasmon resonance.\n\nParamagnons are magnons in magnetic materials which are in their high temperature, disordered (paramagnetic) phase. For low enough temperatures, the local atomic magnetic moments (spins) in ferromagnetic (FM) or anti-ferromagnetic (AFM) compounds will become ordered. Small oscillations of the moments around their natural direction will propagate as waves (magnons). At temperatures higher than the critical temperature, long range order is lost, but spins will still align locally in patches, allowing for spin waves to propagate for short distances. These waves are known as a paramagnon, and undergo diffusive (instead of ballistic or long range) transport.\n\nThe concept was first proposed based on the spin fluctuations in transition metals, by Berk and Schrieffer and Doniach and Engelsberg, to explain additional repulsion between electrons in some metals, which reduces the critical temperature for superconductivity.\n\nMagnon behavior can be studied with a variety of scattering techniques. Magnons behave as a Bose gas with no chemical potential. Microwave pumping can be used to excite spin waves and create additional non-equilibrium magnons which thermalize into phonons. At a critical density, a condensate is formed, which appears as the emission of monochromatic microwaves. This microwave source can be tuned with an applied magnetic field.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56732656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56732656", "title": "March 1–3, 2018 nor'easter", "text": "March 1–3, 2018 nor'easter\n\nThe March 1–3, 2018 nor'easter was a powerful nor'easter that caused major impacts in the Northeastern, Mid-Atlantic and Southeastern United States. It originated as the northernmost low of a stationary front over the Midwest on March 1, which moved eastward into the Northeast later that night. A new low pressure system rapidly formed off the coast on March 2 as it slowly meandered near the coastline. It peaked later that day and brought hurricane-force winds to coastal New England before gradually moving out to sea by March 3. Producing over of snow in some areas, it was one of the most significant March snowstorms in many areas, particularly in Upstate New York. In other areas, it challenged storm surge records set by other significant storms, such as Hurricane Sandy.\n\nAlthough the most severe damage was caused by flooding as well as snow, unusually high tides and storm surges along the coast, wind and downed trees caused massive inland power outages, with the number of outages as high as 1.9 million at one point. As of March 4, at least 9 people are known to have been killed as a result of the storm, five from falling trees or branches. Recovery efforts were later hampered as a second nor'easter began to impact the area just a few days after the first one struck.\n\nA stationary front was draped over the central United States on the last day of February 2018. During this time period, dangerous flash flooding occurred as a result. On March 1, one of the northernmost lows split from the boundary and began tracking northwards. Tracking into colder air near the border between the U.S and Canada, snow broke out in the eastern half of the Midwest; the Weather Prediction Center (WPC) began issuing storm summaries later that day. Overnight into the early morning hours of March 2, a new low formed and rapidly strengthened off the coast of New Jersey, while snow began to slowly increase in coverage near Pennsylvania and southern New York.\n\nRapid deepening of the low continued as it moved slowly westward, before it bottomed out around or so later that evening. Intrusion of cold air caused heavy wet snow to break out closer to the coast, resulting in snow engulfing much of the Tri-State Area, including New York City and areas further south. Winds also increased as the pressure gradient of the system increased, with gusts reaching as high as in some areas. Gradually, the storm also began to move out to sea, with the precipitation shield of the system receding from the coast. Consequently, by the early morning hours of March 3, the WPC terminated storm summaries on the storm after it moved far enough away from the East Coast, while also maintaining peak intensity. The system weakened over the next few days, before it split into two systems on March 5, one of which became a hurricane-force low.\n\nAmtrak suspended rail service along the Northeast Corridor between Washington, D.C. and Boston, along with \"Keystone Service\" trains between New York City and Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, on March 2 because of the storm. Over 4,000 flights were cancelled on March 2 due to the storm. Also because of the storm, over 2.2 million customers in the Northeast United States lost power.\n\nThe storm brought rain and heavy winds to the Hampton Roads area on March 2. Several flights were cancelled at Norfolk International Airport and Dominion Virginia Power reported 36,000 customers in the Hampton Roads area without power. A total of 500,000 customers lost power in Virginia from the storm. Winds from the storm resulted in the Chesapeake Bay Bridge-Tunnel being closed much of the day on March 2. Virginia Railway Express suspended service on March 2. Schools in Fairfax and Prince William counties were closed due to high winds. Wind gusts of were reported at Washington Dulles International Airport and at Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport. Pilots from a flight bound to Washington Dulles International Airport reported that nearly every passenger vomited due to extreme turbulence from the storm. A 6-year-old boy was killed when a tree fell onto his family's home in Virginia.\n\nSouthbound Interstate 95 lanes were shut down in Woodbridge to inspect the Potomac Mills shopping mall sign along the interstate, which appeared bent during the storm.\n\nA woman was killed after a tree fell into her in Kitty Hawk. Also, Riley left damage near Kitty Hawk afterwards.\n\nIn Washington, D.C., the federal government closed offices due to the storm, and the Smithsonian museums also closed.\nThe Washington Metro reduced speeds and decreased the frequency of train service. Metrobus and regional bus services saw delays due to downed trees and wires. Schools in Washington, D.C. cancelled scheduled parent-teacher conferences for the day.\n\nA 77-year-old woman in Kingsville was killed when she was struck by a tree branch. An apartment building in Suitland partially collapsed, displacing 300 residents. Montgomery County Public Schools and Howard County Public Schools were closed due to the storm. As of 4 PM EST on March 2, BGE and PEPCO reported 253,000 customers without power in their service area. Along with Amtrak service, MARC service was suspended indefinitely on all lines. MDOT also shut down the Chesapeake Bay Bridge several times throughout the day.\nTydings Bridge on Interstate 95 and Hatem Bridge on U.S. Route 40 were also shut down indefinitely due to two tractor trailers flipping over from high winds. A downed tree blocked southbound Interstate 95 in White Marsh. Dozens of cars were destroyed in Baltimore City due to trees toppling over from a combination of saturated ground and wind. This storm was the worst wind storm in the area since Hurricane Sandy in 2012. When leaving to attend the funeral of Billy Graham, President Donald Trump could not fly out of Joint Base Andrews and had to depart from Dulles Airport instead.\n\nIn Sussex County, the storm brought rain and high winds on March 2, with gusts reaching . The winds knocked down trees and blew debris around. The Cape May-Lewes Ferry delayed a morning departure and suspended service for the rest of the day on March 2. Delmarva Power reported tens of thousands of customers without power across the state.\n\nIn the Philadelphia area, the storm brought snow, poor visibility, and wind on March 2, with the wind taking down trees and power lines. PECO Energy Company reported over 616,000 customers without power across the Philadelphia area. Due to high winds, repairs did not begin until March 3 and power restoration could take several days. A 57-year-old man was killed when a tree fell onto his car in Upper Merion Township. A tree fell onto a SEPTA bus traveling along the Schuylkill Expressway in Lower Merion Township. Service on some SEPTA Regional Rail lines was suspended because of the storm. American Airlines cancelled flights at Philadelphia International Airport on March 2 due to the storm.\n\nIn the Lehigh Valley and Pocono Mountains regions of Pennsylvania, the storm brought heavy snow and wind on March 2, which led to dozens of car accidents. Speed limits were reduced along portions of Interstate 80, Interstate 81, and Interstate 380 in eastern Pennsylvania. The snow and wind brought down trees and power lines, with PPL Electric Utilities reporting over 100,000 outages. Many schools in the Lehigh Valley and Pocono Mountains closed or dismissed early on March 2. Court offices in Monroe County closed early on March 2. LANTA buses between Bethlehem and the Slate Belt operated on a snow emergency detour. In Berks County, the storm brought down trees and power lines on March 2, with Met-Ed reporting 6,254 outages in the county and PPL Electric Utilities reporting 1,084 outages in the county. Winds toppled a tractor trailer along Interstate 78 near Hamburg and brought a tree and wires down onto an unoccupied vehicle in Exeter Township. High winds toppled a school bus in Chambersburg.\n\nSussex County in the northern part of the state reported of snow. At the Jersey Shore, the storm caused minor flooding and road closures during the high tide on the morning of March 2. Two local roads in Absecon were closed from flooding and there was flooding on U.S. Route 40 leading into Atlantic City. Flooding also caused lane closures along portions of Route 35 in Brick and Belmar while floodwaters covered roads in Neptune and Highlands. Some flights were cancelled at Newark Liberty International Airport. Atlantic City Electric reported 29,111 customers without power and PSE&G reported tens of thousands of customers without power. New Jersey Transit cancelled some service.\n\nSnow was reported in Albany and Syracuse. Blizzard warnings were issued in portions of Upstate New York, where winds and more than a foot of snow was forecasted. Eastern Long Island saw over of rain. New York City experienced rain, snow, sleet, and winds. A tractor trailer overturned on the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge. Nearly half of the flights out of LaGuardia Airport were cancelled on March 2. An 11-year-old boy was killed by a falling tree in Putnam Valley. A total of of snow fell in Hornell, while of snow fell in Richmondville. The heaviness of the wet snow that fell in Western New York was a major factor in prolonged blackouts in the area.\n\nConnecticut experienced heavy rain, flooding, and heavy winds from the storm.\n\nRhode Island experienced rain and wind. Hurricane-force wind gusts were reported in the state, peaking at in Little Compton. Several bridges had to be closed to commercial traffic when a truck blew over on the Newport Pell Bridge.\n\nHurricane-force wind gusts were reported in Massachusetts, peaking at in Wellfleet, in Chatham,\nand in Barnstable. Boston recorded a peak gust of while experiencing heavy rain and coastal flooding from the storm. The city experienced its third highest tide on record at . Several flights were cancelled at Logan International Airport in Boston. A tree fell onto a car in Tewksbury. Waves were described as \"higher than a two-story house\" and the \"Boston Globe\" said 1,800 evacuated Scituate. In Braintree, strong winds ripped the roofs off an elementary school and a middle school. Over of rain fell in the eastern part of the state.\n\nOn March 5, the storm uncovered a shipwreck in York, Maine, believed to have been built sometime between 1750 and 1850.\n\n"}
{"id": "3852041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3852041", "title": "NLM CityHopper Flight 431", "text": "NLM CityHopper Flight 431\n\nNLM CityHopper Flight 431 refers to a Fokker F-28-4000, registration PH-CHI, that was due to operate an international scheduled Rotterdam–Eindhoven–Hamburg passenger service. On 6 October 1981, the aircraft encountered severe weather on the first leg, minutes after taking off from Rotterdam Airport, and crashed south-southeast of Rotterdam. All 17 occupants of the aircraft – 13 passengers and crew of 4 – perished in the accident.\n\nThe aircraft involved in the accident was a Fokker F28-4000, registration PH-CHI, that was built in 1979 with c/n 1141. At the time of the accident the airframe had accumulated 4,485 flight hours and 5,997 cycles.\n\nDuring the weather briefing 44 minutes before takeoff, the crew was apprised to an area of strong thunderstorms with 3/8 (37.5%) sky coverage of cumulonimbus at a base of , south-southwest winds strong, and visibility at Rotterdam Airport. The aircraft took off at 5:04 p.m. CET (UTC +1) from Rotterdam Airport. The crew noted heavy rain in thunderstorms on the airplane's weather avoidance radar at 5:09 p.m., receiving clearance to avoid the area. At 5:12 p.m. the aircraft entered a tornado while flying through clouds. The weather system the aircraft entered into was apparently the same \"tornado-like\" system that Zeeland locals described as being responsible for considerable property damage. Meteorologically, these vortices are indeed tornadoes, and the disintegrating airliner was seen exiting cloud cover. A police officer first photographed the tornado, then smoke from the burning plane a few minutes later. An investigation concluded that a sharp increase in altitude registered on the altimeter was not a change in altitude, rather a pressure drop associated with the tornado.\n\nStresses experienced by the airframe owing to severe turbulence (due to a \"downburst\" or \"mircroburst\" of a few seconds) resulted in loads of +6.8 \"g\" and −3.2 \"g\" causing the starboard wing to detach. The Fellowship was designed for a maximum G-load of up to 4 g. The aircraft spun down into the ground from , crashing some from a Shell chemical plant on the southeastern outskirts of Moerdijk. All 17 occupants of the aircraft perished in the accident.. While observing the unfolding incident from the ground, a firefighter suffered a fatal cardiac arrest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20487039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20487039", "title": "NamWater", "text": "NamWater\n\nThe Namibia Water Corporation or NamWater is a parastatal in Namibia. It is wholly owned by the Ministry of Agriculture of the Government of Namibia. The company employs over 600 people.\n\n"}
{"id": "52852412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52852412", "title": "Octopus stone", "text": "Octopus stone\n\nThe octopus stone, \"Taiko-ishi\" 蛸石 (also called \"Drum Rock\") is a large stone at Osaka Castle in Japan. The stone is near Sakura Gate. It is one of the largest of several megaliths at the castle (by face area), at 5.5×11.7 meters and over . Its name is derived from the octopus shape visible on its lower left corner.\n\n"}
{"id": "1033013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1033013", "title": "Otto fuel II", "text": "Otto fuel II\n\nOtto Fuel II is a monopropellant used to drive torpedoes and other weapon systems. It is not related to the Otto cycle.\n\nOtto fuel II is a distinct-smelling, reddish-orange, oily liquid that is a mixture of three synthetic substances: propylene glycol dinitrate (the major component), 2-nitrodiphenylamine, and dibutyl sebacate. It does not need exposure to any oxidant to ignite and release energy, as its three components will react among themselves whenever vaporised and heated. Needing no oxidants and being a stable substance makes Otto Fuel II ideal for use in the constrained environment of a submarine. Although the fuel can be made to explode, this requires extreme conditions (such that it can be regarded as practically stable). The vapour pressure of the fuel is low (i.e., it is not volatile), minimising toxic hazards. Finally, the fuel's energy density far surpasses the capacity of the electric battery used in other torpedoes, maximising range.\n\nNamed after its inventor, Otto Reitlinger, Otto Fuel II consists of the nitrated ester explosive propellant propylene glycol dinitrate (PGDN), to which a desensitizer (dibutyl sebacate) and a stabilizer (2-nitrodiphenylamine) have been added. The chief component, propylene glycol dinitrate, accounts for approximately 76% of the mixture, while dibutyl sebacate and 2-nitrodiphenylamine account for approximately 22.5% and 1.5% (by weight), respectively.\n\nThe principal current use of propylene glycol dinitrate is as a propellant in Otto Fuel II. Nitrates of polyhydric alcohols such as this have been used in medicine for the treatment of angina pectoris, and as explosives since the mid-nineteenth century.\n\nIn addition to its use by the United States Navy as a stabilizer in the manufacture of Otto Fuel II, 2-nitrodiphenylamine is employed for similar purposes by the United States Army in the manufacture of double base solid propellants. It also has civilian applications as a solvent dye.\n\nDibutyl sebacate is a desensitizer in Otto Fuel II. However, its major use is as a plasticizer in production of plastics, namely cellulose acetate butyrate, cellulose acetate propionate, polyvinyl butyral, polystyrene, and many synthetic rubbers. It can be used for plastics in use in the food packaging industry. It is also used as a lubricating ingredient in shaving lotions, and a flavoring additive in non-alcoholic beverages, ice cream, ices, candy, and baked goods.\n\nOtto Fuel II is a toxic substance found in EPA's National Priorities List. Ingestion of contaminated food or direct exposure at worksites can cause headaches, poor eye–hand coordination, eye irritation, congested noses, nausea, dizziness, and difficulty breathing. It can be deadly if inhaled from a fuel spill/torpedo leak. An MSA Demand Mask is mandatory for cleanup/mitigation efforts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33017018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33017018", "title": "Outline of natural science", "text": "Outline of natural science\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to natural science:\n\nNatural science – a major branch of science that tries to explain, and predict, nature's phenomena based on empirical evidence. In natural science, hypothesis must be verified scientifically to be regarded as scientific theory. Validity, accuracy, and social mechanisms ensuring quality control, such as peer review and repeatability of findings, are amongst the criteria and methods used for this purpose. Natural science can be broken into 2 main branches: life science, and physical science. Each of these branches, and all of their sub-branches, are referred to as natural sciences.\n\nNatural science can be described as all of the following:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHistory of natural science\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54132877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54132877", "title": "Perfluoropolyether", "text": "Perfluoropolyether\n\nPerfluoropolyether (PFPE) is a type of liquid lubricant used in the Aerospace industry for over 30 years. The main properties of PFPE are being temperature resistant between 215 K - 530 K (depending on specific composites), having very low outgassing compared to other fluids (vapour pressure of 6e-8 torr) and having a dielectric strength of around 15.7 MV/m.\n"}
{"id": "4579730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4579730", "title": "Polydioxanone", "text": "Polydioxanone\n\nPolydioxanone (PDO, PDS) or poly-\"p\"-dioxanone is a colorless, crystalline, biodegradable synthetic polymer.\n\nChemically, polydioxanone is a polymer of multiple repeating ether-ester units. It is obtained by ring-opening polymerization of the monomer \"p\"-dioxanone. The process requires heat and an organometallic catalyst like zirconium acetylacetone or zinc L-lactate. It is characterized by a glass transition temperature in the range of −10 and 0 °C and a crystallinity of about 55%. For the production of sutures, polydioxanone is generally extruded into fibers, however care should be taken to process the polymer to the lowest possible temperature, in order to avoid its spontaneous depolymerization back to the monomer. The ether oxygen group in the backbone of the polymer chain is responsible for its flexibility.\n\nPolydioxanone is used for biomedical applications, particularly in the preparation of surgical sutures. Other biomedical applications include orthopedics, maxillofacial surgery, plastic surgery, drug delivery, cardiovascular applications, and tissue engineering.\n\nIt is degraded by hydrolysis, and the end products are mainly excreted in urine, the remainder being eliminated by digestive or exhaled as CO. The biomaterial is completely reabsorbed in 6 months and can be seen only a minimal foreign body reaction tissue in the vicinity of the implant. Materials made of PDS can be sterilized with ethylene oxide.\n\nOther biodegradable polymers:\n\n"}
{"id": "15653365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15653365", "title": "Polyhedral symbol", "text": "Polyhedral symbol\n\nThe polyhedral symbol is sometimes used in coordination chemistry to indicate the approximate geometry of the coordinating atoms around the central atom. One or more italicised letters indicate the geometry, e.g. \"TP\"-3 which is followed by a number that gives the coordination number of the central atom. The polyhedral symbol can be used in naming of compounds, in which case it is followed by the configuration index.\n\nThe first step in determining the configuration index is to assign a priority number to each coordinating ligand according to the Cahn-Ingold-Prelog priority rules, (CIP rules). The preferred ligand takes the lowest priority number. For example, of the ligands acetonitrile, chloride ion and pyridine thepriority number assigned are chloride, 1; acetonitrile,2; pyridene,3. Each coordination type has a different procedure for specifying the configuration index and these are outlined in below.\n\nThe configuration index is a single digit which is defined as the priority number of the ligand on the stem of the \"T\".\n\nThe configuration index has two digits which are the priority numbers of the ligands separated by the largest angle. The lowest priority number of the pair is quoted first.\n\nThe configuration index is a single digit which is the priority number of the ligand \"trans\" to the highest priority ligand. (If there are two possibilities the principle of trans difference is applied). As an example, (acetonitrile)dichlorido(pyridine)platinum(II) complex where the Cl ligands may be \"trans\" or \"cis\" to one another.\nThe ligand priority numbers are, applying the CIP rules:\nIn the trans case the configuration index is 1 giving the name(\"SP\"-4-1)-(acetonitrile)dichlorido(pyridine)platinum(II).\nIn the \"cis\" case both of the organic ligands are \"trans\" to a chloride so to choose the trans difference is considered and the greater is between 1 and three therefore the name is (\"SP\"-4-3)-(acetonitrile)dichlorido(pyridine)platinum(II).\n\nThe configuration index has two digits. The first digit is the priority number of the ligand trans to the highest priority ligand. This pair is then used to define the reference axis of the octahedron. The second digit is the priority number of the ligand \"trans\" to the highest priority ligand in the plane perpendicular to the reference axis.\n\nThe configuration index is a single digit which is the priority number of the ligand \"trans\" to the ligand of lowest priority in the plane perpendicular to the 4 fold axis. (If there is more than one choice then the highest numerical value second digit is taken.) NB this procedure gives the same result as \"SP\"-4, however in this case the polyhedral symbol specifies that the complex is non-planar.\n\nThis is a two digit the first digit is the priority number of the ligand on the fourfold (C) axis of the idealised pyramid the second digit is the priority number of the ligand trans to ligand of lowest priority in the plane perpendicular to the 4 fold axis. (If there is more than one choice then the highest numerical value second digit is taken.)\n\nThe configuration index consists of two digits which are the priority numbers of the ligands on the threefold rotation axis. The lowest numerical value is cited first.\n\nThe configuration index consists of two segments separated by a hyphen. The first segment consists of two digits which are the priority numbers of the ligands on the five, six or sevenfold rotation axis. The lowest numerical value is cited first.\n\nThe second segment consists of 5, 6 or 7 digits respectively. The lowest priority number is the first digit followed by the digits of the other atoms in the plane. The clockwise and anticlockwise sequences are compared and the one that yields the lowest numerical sequence is chosen.\n"}
{"id": "24776266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24776266", "title": "Raum Energy Inc.", "text": "Raum Energy Inc.\n\nRaum Energy Inc. was a company based in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada which designed and manufactured small-scale wind turbines, grid-tie inverter and battery charge controller systems. These systems, which could run off of either wind or photovoltaic generated power, were specifically designed for use with residential-scale applications. The company's 1.3 kW turbine was one of the first systems setup for testing at Canada's Wind Energy Institute for to participate in a national study into the reliability and performance of small-scale generator systems.\n\nThe company's flagship system combined a 3.5 kW turbine with a grid-tie inverter or battery charge controller and could generate 6,000 kW-hrs of energy annually. This system was set to also begin testing at WEICAN in April 2010.\n\nRaum Energy Inc. was awarded the 2009 Western Canadian National Research Council's award for innovative new technology.\n\n"}
{"id": "8994982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8994982", "title": "Relational space", "text": "Relational space\n\nThe relational theory of space is a metaphysical theory according to which space is composed of relations between objects, with the implication that it cannot exist in the absence of matter. Its opposite is the container theory. A relativistic physical theory implies a relational metaphysics, but not the other way round: even if space is composed of nothing but relations between observers and events, it would be conceptually possible for all observers to agree on their measurements, whereas relativity implies they will disagree. Newtonian physics can be cast in relational terms, but Newton insisted, for philosophical reasons, on absolute (container) space. The subject was famously debated by Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz and a supporter of Newton's in the Leibniz–Clarke correspondence.\n\nAn absolute approach can also be applied to time, with, for instance, the implication that there might have been vast epochs of time before the first event.\n\n"}
{"id": "34198468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34198468", "title": "Reversing gear", "text": "Reversing gear\n\nOn a steam locomotive, the reversing gear is used to control the direction of travel of the locomotive. It also adjusts the cutoff of the steam locomotive.\n\nThis is the most common form of reverser. It consists of a long lever mounted, parallel to the direction of travel, on the driver’s side of the cab. It has a handle and sprung trigger at the top and is pivoted at the bottom so as to pass between two notched sector plates. The reversing rod, which connects to the valve gear, is attached to this lever, either above or below the pivot, in such a position as to give good leverage. A square pin is arranged so as to engage with the notches in the plates and hold the lever in the desired position when the trigger is released.\n\nThe advantages of this design are that change between forward and reverse gear can be made very quickly as is needed in, for example, a shunting engine. Disadvantages are that, because the lever must rest at one of the notches, fine adjustment of the cutoff to offer best running and economy is not possible. On large locomotives it can be difficult to prevent the mechanism from jumping into full forward gear (“nose-diving”) when adjusting the cutoff once the locomotive has gathered speed: with such engines it was the practice of drivers to select an appropriate degree of cutoff before opening the regulator and to leave it in that position for the duration of the journey.\n\nIn this mechanism the reversing rod is controlled by a screw and nut, worked by a wheel in the cab. The nut either operates on the reversing rod directly or through a lever, as above. The screw and nut may be cut with a double thread and a coarse pitch to move the mechanism as quickly as possible. The wheel is fitted with a locking lever to prevent creep and there is an indicator to show the percentage of cutoff in use. This method of altering the cutoff offers finer control than the sector lever, but it has the disadvantage of slow operation. It is most suitable for long-distance passenger engines where frequent changes of cutoff are not required and where fine adjustments offer the most benefit. On locomotives fitted with Westinghouse air brake equipment and Stephenson valve gear, it was common to use the screw housing as an air cylinder, with the nut extended to form a piston. Compressed air from the brake reservoirs was applied to one side of the piston to reduce the effort required to lift the heavy expansion link, with gravity assisting in the opposite direction.\nWith larger engines, the linkages involved in controlling cutoff and direction grew progressively heavier and there was a need for power assistance in adjusting them. Steam (or later, compressed air) powered reversing gear was developed in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Typically, the operator worked a valve that admitted steam to one side or the other of a cylinder connected to the reversing mechanism until the indicator showed the intended position. A second mechanism, usually a piston in an oil-filled cylinder held in position by closing a control cock, was required to keep the linkages in place. The first locomotive engineer to fit such a device was James Stirling of the Glasgow and South Western Railway in 1873. Several engineers then tried them, including William Dean of the GWR and Vincent Raven of the North Eastern Railway, but they found them little to their liking, mainly because of maintenance difficulties: any oil leakage from the locking cylinder, either through the piston gland or the cock, allowed the mechanism to creep, or worse “nose-dive”, into full forward gear while running. Stirling moved to the South Eastern Railway and Harry Smith Wainwright, his successor with that company, incorporated them into most of his designs, which were in production about thirty years after Stirling’s innovation. Later still the forward-looking Southern Railway engineer Oliver Bulleid fitted them to his famous Merchant Navy Class of locomotives, but they were mostly removed at rebuild.\n\nHenszey's reversing gear, patented in 1882, illustrates a typical early solution. Henszey's device consists of two pistons mounted on a single piston rod. Both pistons are double-ended. One is a steam piston to move the rod as required. The other, containing oil, holds the rod in a fixed position when the steam is turned off. Control is by a small three-way steam valve (“forward”, “stop”, “back”) and a separate indicator showing the position of the rod and thus the percentage of cutoff in use. When the steam valve is at “stop”, an oil cock connecting the two ends of the locking piston is also closed, thus holding the mechanism in position. The piston rod connects by levers to the reversing gear, which operates in the usual way, according to the type of valve gear in use.\n\nThe Ragonnet power reverse, patented in 1909, was a true feedback controlled servomechanism. The power reverse amplified small motions of reversing lever in the locomotive cab made with modest force into much larger and more forceful motions of the reach rod that controlled the engine cutoff and direction. It was usually air powered, but could also be steam powered. The term \"servomotor\" was explicitly used by the developers of some later power reverse mechanisms. The use of feedback control in these later power reverse mechanisms eliminated the need for a second cylinder for a hydraulic locking mechanism, and it restored the simplicity of a single operating lever that both controlled the reversing linkage and indicated its position.\n\nThe development of articulated locomotives was a major impetus to the development of power reverse systems, because these typically had two or even three sets of reverse gear, instead of just one on a simple locomotive. The Baldwin Locomotive Works used the Ragonnet reversing gear, and other American builders generally abandoned positive locking features. In British use, locking cylinders remained in use. The Hadfield reversing gear, patented in 1950, was in most particulars a Ragonnet reversing gear with added locking cylinder.\nMost Beyer Garratt locomotives used the Hadfield system.\nMany American locomotives were built, or retro-fitted, with power reverse, e.g. PRR K4s, PRR N1s, PRR B6, PRR L1s.\n\nIn the UK, a screw reverser is sometimes called a \"bacon slicer\", particularly the type fitted to BR Standard locomotives. In the US, a reversing lever is called a \"Johnson bar\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13923352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13923352", "title": "Scandinavian Oil-Gas Magazine", "text": "Scandinavian Oil-Gas Magazine\n\nScandinavian Oil-Gas Magazine () is a bi-monthly magazine published in Norway, with a circulation of 11,000. The magazine covers the oil and gas industry worldwide, with a primary focus on Europe. Founded in 1973, it is the oldest oil and gas magazine in Europe. The magazine is published by Scandinavian Oil-Gas Magazine AS.\n\n\"Scandinavian Oil-Gas Magazine\" was established by Paal Gulbrandsen, who retired in 2004, and is a family-owned company. The magazine was established to provide in-depth information on developments within the North Sea oil and gas industry. Along the way, \"Scandinavina Oil-Gas Magazine\" has covered some of modern history’s landmarks in the industry, including oil and gas fields such as Ekofisk, Troll gas field, Statfjord, Gullfaks, Ormen Lange, Snøhvit, Sakhalin-I and II, and Shtokman.\n\n"}
{"id": "40596438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40596438", "title": "Sebastiaan Bowier", "text": "Sebastiaan Bowier\n\nJonkheer Sebastiaan Bowier (born August 23, 1987) is a Dutch cyclist.\n\nIn September 2013 he achieved a speed of in a human powered vehicle (HPV), breaking the previous world record.\n\nBowier has been a member of the Human Power Team since 2011. In 2011 he won the Battle Mountain race, but failed to break the world record, instead taking the European and Dutch records with a speed of . He was for the second year running the strongest cyclist during selection, and both an experienced recumbent rider and road cyclist.\n\nOn 15 September 2013, Bowier broke the International Human Powered Vehicle Association record, previously set by Canadian Sam Whittingham in 2009, by . The speed of was achieved over a stretch of road in Battle Mountain, Nevada, on a recumbent bicycle named VeloX3, designed by students from the Delft University of Technology and the VU University Amsterdam. He required a run-up of before setting the record.\n\nThe VeloX3 bicycle he used has a profiled carbon fibre shell covered with the same type of coating used on Formula One cars. It experiences approximately one-tenth of the drag of a conventional bicycle, and uses a camera on the top for navigation. It was found that hard pedalling led to deformation of the shell, which had to be corrected before the record could be set. Two new shells were used for the racing, with parts from the testing vehicles being reused.\n\nHe trained for 15 to 20 hours every week for a year, under a regime chosen by Human Movement Sciences students from VU University in Amsterdam.\n\nBowier works for bicycle component manufacturer BBB Cycles as a product designer.\n"}
{"id": "44817245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44817245", "title": "Ship load", "text": "Ship load\n\nShip load is a United Kingdom unit of weight for coal equal to 949,760 pounds, 430803.889 kg, or 20 keels.\n\n"}
{"id": "6947688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6947688", "title": "SmILE", "text": "SmILE\n\nSmILE is a showcase car designed for Greenpeace in 1996 to demonstrate how fuel efficient a car can be. The name stands for \"Small, Intelligent, Light, Efficient'. It is based on the Renault Twingo, halving its fuel consumption to 3.3 l/100km (30 km/l or 85 mpg (imperial) / 68 mpg (US)). \n\nAn important issue in the design was that it should use off-the-shelf technology (parts and know-how). As a result, in mass production it should not cost significantly more than a 'heavier' equivalent. The engine should even be cheaper because it is made of fewer parts. However, parts that would be more expensive are supercharging (be it pressure wave supercharger or turbo-supercharger) and the wheels and the wheel suspension, which are made of aluminium. \n\nThe major changes made to the Twingo are:\n\nThe main consumption change of the engine stems from its more frequent use in the higher load range, which results in higher thermal stress. This is compensated for by an ingenious cooling system. The mean piston velocities are in the customary range. The use of the latest technologies in materials and surface coatings guarantees stability of piston rings and cylinder bearing surfaces despite the higher pressures due to supercharging.\n\nAt least a further 80 kg weight reduction could be achieved through the use of fibre composite materials, a smaller tank and replacing the glass windows with polycarbonate, but these modifications were not selected. The changes did not alter the safety standards of the Twingo and the airbag and lateral collision protection were kept in place. Aluminium accounts for 45 kg of the weight of the SmILE (7%), through replacement of both axles, wheel suspension and seat structure. In average cars in Europe this is 65 kg (6%) and rising. One problem with aluminium is the high energy cost of primary production. However, recycled aluminium has a much lower energy cost and identical mechanical properties. \n\nIn Germany, around 10% of all cars are replaced annually by new vehicles, so if all new vehicles had the SmILE standard that would mean an annual reduction of the CO emissions of the car fleet by 5%. A similar reduction in fuel consumption would be possible for all petrol cars, but not diesels because they are heavier (and require heavier batteries). The Twingo was chosen because of its favourable ratio between internal space and exterior and because it is a reasonable all-round car for everyone (it is the most imported car in Germany).\n\nGreenpeace says that ultimately, this car is not a definitive solution. Reduction of the number of cars is still necessary, also to reduce other problems, such as traffic jams, the emission of toxic substances in cities, the death toll on roads (over a million per year) and the destruction (and carving up) of nature to build roads. Alternative fuels would be a better solution, but time is pressing, so an intermediate off-the-shelf solution like the SmILE is needed.\n\nThe car was designed by the Swiss company of Wenko. For this, they received a loan of roughly 1.3 million euro from Greenpeace, which they will return if the engine concept is taken over by a manufacturer for series production or profits are obtained from issuing licences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "991054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=991054", "title": "Sol (colloid)", "text": "Sol (colloid)\n\nA sol is a colloidal solution suspension of very small solid particles in a continuous liquid medium. Sols are quite stable and show the Tyndall effect. Examples include blood, pigmented ink, cell fluids and paint.\n\nArtificial sols may be prepared by dispersion or condensation. Dispersion techniques include grinding solids to colloidal dimensions by ball milling and Bredig's arc method. The stability of sols may be maintained by using dispersing agents.\n\nSols are commonly used as part of the sol–gel process.\n\n"}
{"id": "11293830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11293830", "title": "Stoddard engine", "text": "Stoddard engine\n\nElliott J. Stoddard invented and patented two versions of the Stoddard engine, the first in 1919 and the second in 1933. The general engine classification is an external combustion engine with valves and single-phase gaseous working fluid (i.e. a \"hot air engine\"). The internal working fluid was originally air, although in modern versions, other gases such as helium or hydrogen may be used.\n\nOne potential thermodynamic advantage of using valves is to minimize the adverse effects of \"unswept volume\" in the heat exchangers (sometimes called \"dead volume\"), which is known to reduce engine efficiency and power output in the valveless Stirling engine.\n\nThe generalized thermodynamic processes of the 1919 Stoddard cycle are:\n\nThe engine design in the patent was using a scotch yoke.\n\nIn the 1933 design, Stoddard reduced the internal volume of the heat exchangers maintaining the same generalized thermodynamic processes as the 1919 cycle.\n"}
{"id": "61273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=61273", "title": "Supersonic speed", "text": "Supersonic speed\n\nSupersonic travel is a rate of travel of an object that exceeds the speed of sound (Mach 1). For objects traveling in dry air of a temperature of 20 °C (68 °F) at sea level, this speed is approximately 344 m/s, 1,125 ft/s, 768 mph, 667 knots, or 1,235 km/h. Speeds greater than five times the speed of sound (Mach 5) are often referred to as hypersonic. Flights during which only some parts of the air surrounding an object, such as the ends of rotor blades, reach supersonic speeds are called transonic. This occurs typically somewhere between Mach 0.8 and Mach 1.23.\n\nSounds are traveling vibrations in the form of pressure waves in an elastic medium. In gases, sound travels longitudinally at different speeds, mostly depending on the molecular mass and temperature of the gas, and pressure has little effect. Since air temperature and composition varies significantly with altitude, Mach numbers for aircraft may change despite a constant travel speed. In water at room temperature supersonic speed can be considered as any speed greater than 1,440 m/s (4,724 ft/s). In solids, sound waves can be polarized longitudinally or transversely and have even higher velocities.\n\nSupersonic fracture is crack motion faster than the speed of sound in a brittle material.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, the term \"supersonic\" was used as an adjective to describe sound whose frequency is above the range of normal human hearing. The modern term for this meaning is \"ultrasonic\".\n\nThe tip of a bullwhip is thought to be the first man-made object to break the sound barrier, resulting in the telltale \"crack\" (actually a small sonic boom). The wave motion traveling through the bullwhip is what makes it capable of achieving supersonic speeds.\n\nMost modern fighter aircraft are supersonic aircraft, but there have been supersonic passenger aircraft, namely Concorde and the Tupolev Tu-144. Both these passenger aircraft and some modern fighters are also capable of supercruise, a condition of sustained supersonic flight without the use of an afterburner. Due to its ability to supercruise for several hours and the relatively high frequency of flight over several decades, Concorde spent more time flying supersonically than all other aircraft combined by a considerable margin. Since Concorde's final retirement flight on November 26, 2003, there are no supersonic passenger aircraft left in service. Some large bombers, such as the Tupolev Tu-160 and Rockwell B-1 Lancer are also supersonic-capable.\n\nMost modern firearm bullets are supersonic, with rifle projectiles often travelling at speeds approaching and in some cases well exceeding Mach 3.\n\nMost spacecraft, most notably the Space Shuttle are supersonic at least during portions of their reentry, though the effects on the spacecraft are reduced by low air densities. During ascent, launch vehicles generally avoid going supersonic below 30 km (~98,400 feet) to reduce air drag.\n\nNote that the speed of sound decreases somewhat with altitude, due to lower temperatures found there (typically up to 25 km). At even higher altitudes the temperature starts increasing, with the corresponding increase in the speed of sound.\n\nWhen an inflated balloon is burst, the torn pieces of latex contract at supersonic speed, which contributes to the sharp and loud popping noise.\n\nTo date, only one land vehicle has officially travelled at supersonic speed. It is ThrustSSC, driven by Andy Green, which holds the world land speed record, having achieved an average speed on its bi-directional run of in the Black Rock Desert on 15 October 1997.\n\nRichard Noble, Andy Green and a team of engineers are currently planning to break this record in 2019 at Hakskeen Pan in South Africa with the Bloodhound SSC hybrid jet- and rocket-propelled car.\n\nSupersonic aerodynamics is simpler than subsonic aerodynamics because the airsheets at different points along the plane often cannot affect each other. Supersonic jets and rocket vehicles require several times greater thrust to push through the extra aerodynamic drag experienced within the transonic region (around Mach 0.85–1.2). At these speeds aerospace engineers can gently guide air around the fuselage of the aircraft without producing new shock waves, but any change in cross area farther down the vehicle leads to shock waves along the body. Designers use the Supersonic area rule and the Whitcomb area rule to minimize sudden changes in size.\n\nHowever, in practical applications, a supersonic aircraft must operate stably in both subsonic and supersonic profiles, hence aerodynamic design is more complex.\n\nOne problem with sustained supersonic flight is the generation of heat in flight. At high speeds aerodynamic heating can occur, so an aircraft must be designed to operate and function under very high temperatures. Duralumin, the traditional aircraft material, starts to lose strength and go into plastic deformation at relatively low temperatures, and is unsuitable for continuous use at speeds above Mach 2.2 to 2.4. Materials such as titanium and stainless steel allow operations at much higher temperatures. For example, the Lockheed SR-71 Blackbird jet could fly continuously at Mach 3.1 which could lead to temperatures on some parts of the aircraft getting above 315 °C (600 °F).\n\nAnother area of concern for sustained high-speed flight is engine operation. Jet engines create thrust by increasing the temperature of the air they ingest, and as the aircraft speeds up, friction and compression heat this air before it reaches the engines. The maximum allowable temperature of the exhaust is determined by the materials in the turbine at the rear of the engine, so as the aircraft speeds up, the difference in intake and exhaust temperature that the engine can create decreases, and the thrust along with it. Air cooling the turbine area to allow operations at higher temperatures was a key solution, one that continued to improve through the 1950s and on to this day.\n\nIntake design was also a major issue. Normal jet engines can only ingest subsonic air, so for supersonic operation the air must be slowed down. Ramps or cones in the intake are used to create shock waves that slow the airflow before it reaches the engine. Doing so removes energy from the airflow, causing drag. The key to reducing this drag is to use multiple small oblique shock waves, but this was difficult because the angle they make inside the intake changes with Mach number. In order to efficiently operate across a range of speeds, the shock waves have to be \"tuned.\"\n\nAn aircraft able to operate for extended periods at supersonic speeds has a potential range advantage over a similar design operating subsonically. Most of the drag an aircraft sees while speeding up to supersonic speeds occurs just below the speed of sound, due to an aerodynamic effect known as wave drag. An aircraft that can accelerate past this speed sees a significant drag decrease, and can fly supersonically with improved fuel economy. However, due to the way lift is generated supersonically, the lift-to-drag ratio of the aircraft as a whole drops, leading to lower range, offsetting or overturning this advantage.\n\nThe key to having low supersonic drag is to properly shape the overall aircraft to be long and thin, and close to a \"perfect\" shape, the von Karman ogive or Sears-Haack body. This has led to almost every supersonic cruising aircraft looking very similar to every other, with a very long and slender fuselage and large delta wings, cf. SR-71, Concorde, etc. Although not ideal for passenger aircraft, this shaping is quite adaptable for bomber use.\n\nAviation research during World War II led to the creation of the first rocket- and jet-powered aircraft. Several claims of breaking the sound barrier during the war subsequently emerged. However, the first recognized flight exceeding the speed of sound by a manned aircraft in controlled level flight was performed on October 14, 1947 by the experimental Bell X-1 research rocket plane piloted by Charles \"Chuck\" Yeager. The first production plane to break the sound barrier was an F-86 Canadair Sabre with the first 'supersonic' woman pilot, Jacqueline Cochran, at the controls. According to David Masters, the DFS 346 prototype captured in Germany by the Soviets, after being released from a B-29 at 32800 ft (10000 m), reached 683 mph (1100 km/h) late in 1945, which would have exceeded Mach 1 at that height. The pilot in these flights was the German Wolfgang Ziese.\n\nOn August 21, 1961, a Douglas DC-8-43 (registration N9604Z) exceeded Mach 1 in a controlled dive during a test flight at Edwards Air Force Base. The crew were William Magruder (pilot), Paul Patten (copilot), Joseph Tomich (flight engineer), and Richard H. Edwards (flight test engineer). This was the first and only supersonic flight by a civilian airliner other than the Concorde or Tu-144.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9609346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9609346", "title": "The Vanishing Legion", "text": "The Vanishing Legion\n\nThe Vanishing Legion is a 1931 American Pre-Code Mascot film serial directed by Ford Beebe and B. Reeves Eason.\n\nStars Harry Carey and Edwina Booth were originally intended to be in the studio's previous serial, \"King of the Wild\", but had to be re-cast when the MGM film \"Trader Horn\" (1931) overran its schedule. Both also starred in the Mascot serial \"The Last of the Mohicans\" and Carey was the lead in \"The Devil Horse\". An infection received while filming \"Trader Horn\" led to Booth's retirement from acting.\n\nMasked mystery villain The Voice is out to sabotage the Milesburg Oil Co. \"Happy\" Cardigan needs to successfully drill for oil before his contract with Milesburg expires or he goes broke. Jimmie Williams' father, Jed (Edward Hearn), has been framed for murder. Secretary Caroline Hall appears to have an ulterior motive. The mysterious \"Vanishing Legion\" is also on the scene. Jimmie and Cardigan team up, along with Jimmie's horse Rex, to defeat The Voice and solve the mysteries surrounding Milesburg.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50072049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50072049", "title": "Torridness", "text": "Torridness\n\nTorridness is a weather phenomenon and weather hazard characterized by extreme levels of heat and dryness. When afflicting human habitations, such weather is said to cause discomfort and may cause inhabitants to alter their living arrangements.\n"}
{"id": "3167455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3167455", "title": "Tubing hanger", "text": "Tubing hanger\n\nA tubing hanger is a component used in the completion of oil and gas production wells. It is set in the tree or the wellhead and suspends the production tubing and/or casing. Sometimes it provides porting to allow the communication of hydraulic, electric and other downhole functions, as well as chemical injection. It also serves to seal-in the annulus and production areas.\n\n"}
{"id": "2470504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2470504", "title": "Upsilon meson", "text": "Upsilon meson\n\nThe Upsilon meson () is a quarkonium state (i.e. flavourless meson) formed from a bottom quark and its antiparticle. It was discovered by the E288 experiment team, headed by Leon Lederman, at Fermilab in 1977, and was the first particle containing a bottom quark to be discovered because it is the lightest that can be produced without additional massive particles. It has a lifetime of and a mass about in the ground state.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5277711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5277711", "title": "Weili Dai", "text": "Weili Dai\n\nWeili Dai () is a Chinese-born American businesswoman. She is the director, co-founder and former president of Marvell Technology Group. Dai is considered one of the most successful women entrepreneurs, and is the only female co-founder of a major semiconductor company. As of 2015, she is listed as the 95th most powerful woman in the world by \"Forbes\".\n\nDai was born in Shanghai, China, and played semi-professional basketball in Shanghai, before aged 17, she moved to the US. She has a bachelor's degree in computer science from the University of California, Berkeley.\n\nDai is one of the few female co-founders of American semiconductor companies, and since it began in 1995, she directed Marvell's rise to become one of the top semiconductor companies in the world. During her time at Marvell, Dai worked on strategic partnerships and Marvell's technology is used in products in several markets. Dai has also become a driving force in expanding access to technology in the developing world and an ambassador of opportunity between the US and China. Dai advocates for getting more women involved in science and technology.\n\nDai served as chief operating officer, executive vice president, and general manager of the Communications Business Group at Marvell. She was corporate secretary of the board and currently serves as a director of the board at Marvell Technology Group Ltd. Prior to co-founding Marvell, Dai was involved in software development and project management at Canon Research Center America, Inc.\n\nDai promoted partnership with the One Laptop Per Child program (OLPC). Ms. Dai also is active in STEM stating, \"Women are the future of technology and today's technology is fun and cool. It's not just about developing 'nerdy' stuff it's about turning technology into fashionable and user-friendly smart solutions. A woman's natural talent is design, and the look and feel, and making these things fit into our lifestyles. I believe by embracing STEM and leveraging inherent strength of women—the sense of responsibility, passion, compassion, and pride we dedicate to family and community—and applying it to business can make women the X factor in the new era of global growth and prosperity for the 'Smart Life and Smart Lifestyle.'\" She sits on the board of the disaster relief organization, Give2Asia, and was named to the Committee of 100, an organization representing the Chinese Americans. Sutardja Dai Hall at her alma mater UC Berkeley was named for Dai along with her husband Sehat Sutardja, CEO of Marvell and Pantas Sutardja, CTO of Marvell. Sutardja Dai Hall is home to the Center for Information Technology Research in the Interest of Society (CITRIS). In 2015, Ms. Dai was named to the Global Semiconductor Alliance's (GSA) Board of Directors, helping to foster and accelerate the growth of the silicon industry across the globe. Ms. Dai also is a member of the executive committee for TechNet.\n\nNewsweek named Dai one of the \"150 Women Who Shake the World\". She was profiled by CNN International for the Leading Women Innovator Series. In 2004, Dai was an Award Recipient for the Northern California Region of the EY Entrepreneur of the Year award. On May 12, 2012, Dai became the first female commencement speaker in the UC Berkeley College of Engineering's 143-year history. On August 22, 2012, Dai was on the Forbes list of \"The World's 100 Most Powerful Women.\" In October 2012, she was awarded the Outstanding Leadership Award by the non-profit organization Upwardly Global. In March 2013, Dai was honored with the Silicon Valley Entrepreneur of the Year Award in the Established Corporation category by the Chinese Institute of Engineers/USA-San Francisco Bay Area Chapter (CIE/USA-SF). On May 23, 2013, Dai was No. 88 on the Forbes list of \"The World's Most Powerful Women.\" On June 12, 2013, Dai was named a 2013 Most Influential Women in Embedded. On Oct. 25, 2013, Dai was honored with the New Silk Road Award by the California-Asia Business Council. On Nov. 13, 2013, Dai was awarded the Gold Stevie Award for Woman of the Year – Technology. On Dec. 16, 2013, Marvell Co-founders Dr. Sehat Sutardja and Weili Dai were honored with the 2013 Dr. Morris Chang Exemplary Leadership Award by the Global Semiconductor Alliance. On May 28, 2014, Ms. Dai was named to Forbes Most Powerful Women list. On Sept. 8, 2014, Dai, was honored with a Gold award as the \"Best Woman Professional of the Year\" at the 2014 Golden Bridge Awards. On Nov. 17, 2014, Ms. Dai was honored with the Gold Stevie® Award for Female Entrepreneur of the Year – Business Products. On Dec. 9, 2014, Ms. Dai was honored as a Gold Winner for 2014 Women World Awards. On May 26, 2015 Weili Dai was named as the 95th most powerful woman in the world by \"Forbes\", her fourth consecutive year on \"Forbes\" list of \"The World's Most Powerful Women.\" On Aug. 5, 2015, Ms. Dai received a Gold recognition for \"Technology Executive of the Year\" from the 2015 International Best in Biz Awards. On Oct. 14, 2015, Ms. Dai was named a recipient of the \"Keepers of the American Dream\" by The National Immigration Forum and National Immigration Forum Action Fund.\n\nIn 2008, the company and its then chief operating officer–and the only member of its stock option \"committee\" during the period in question – Weili Dai paid fines, to the Securities and Exchange Commission over charges of false financial information to investors by improperly backdating stock option grants to employees, totaling $10 million and $500,000 respectively. Dai was forced to step down as executive vice president, chief operating officer, and a director but allowed to continue with the company in a non-management position.\n\nShe is married to Sehat Sutardja. The couple have two children. They moved to Las Vegas, Nevada, US, after being dismissed from Marvell.\n\n"}
{"id": "50107126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50107126", "title": "XIPS-25", "text": "XIPS-25\n\nThe XIPS-25, or 25-cm Xenon Ion Propulsion System, is a gridded ion thruster manufactured by L-3 Communications. XIPS-25 engine is used on Boeing 702 class satellites for station-keeping as well as orbit-raising.\n"}
{"id": "3325563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3325563", "title": "Ányos Jedlik", "text": "Ányos Jedlik\n\nÁnyos István Jedlik (; ; in older texts and publications: ; 11 January 1800 – 13 December 1895) was a Hungarian inventor, engineer, physicist, and Benedictine priest. He was also a member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and author of several books. He is considered by Hungarians and Slovaks to be the unsung father of the dynamo and electric motor.\n\nHe was born in Szimő, Kingdom of Hungary (today Zemné, Slovakia). His mother was a member of a Hungarian noble family, while his father's family was of Slovak origin moving in 1720 from Liptó County to Szimő.\n\nJedlik's education began at high schools in Nagyszombat (today Trnava) and Pressburg (today Bratislava). In 1817 he became a Benedictine, and from that time continued his studies at the schools of that order, where he was known by his Latin name . He lectured at Benedictine schools up to 1839, then for 40 years at the Budapest University of Sciences department of physics-mechanics. Few guessed at that time that his activities would play an important part in bringing up a new generation of physicists. He became the dean of the Faculty of Arts in 1848, and by 1863 he was rector of the University. From 1858 he was a corresponding member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and from 1873 was an honorary member. After his retirement he continued working and spent his last years in complete seclusion at the priory in Győr, where he died.\n\nIn 1827, Jedlik started experimenting with electromagnetic rotating devices which he called \"lightning-magnetic self-rotors\", and in 1828 he demonstrated the first device which contained the three main components of practical direct current motors: the stator, rotor, and commutator. In the prototype both the stationary and the revolving parts were electromagnetic. The first electromotor, built in 1828, and Jedlik's operating instructions are kept at the Museum of Applied Arts in Budapest. The motor still works perfectly today. However, Jedlik only reported his invention decades later and the true date of it is uncertain.\n\nHe was a prolific author. In 1845, Jedlik was the first university professor in the Kingdom of Hungary who began teaching his students in Hungarian instead of Latin. His cousin Gergely Czuczor, a Hungarian linguist, asked him to create a Hungarian technical vocabulary in physics, the first of its kind, by which he became one of its founders.\n\nIn the 1850s he conducted optical and wave-mechanical experiments, and at the beginning of the 1860s he constructed an excellent optical grate.\n\nHe was ahead of his contemporaries in his scientific work, but he did not speak about his most important invention, his prototype dynamo, until 1856; it was not until 1861 that he mentioned it in writing in a list of inventory of the university. Although that document might serve as evidence of Jedlik's being the first dynamo, the invention of the dynamo is linked to Siemens's name because Jedlik's invention did not rise to notice at that time.\n\nIn 1863 he discovered the possibility of voltage multiplication and in 1868 demonstrated it with a \"tubular voltage generator\", which was successfully displayed at the Vienna World Exposition in 1873. It was an early form of the impulse generators now applied in nuclear research.\nThe jury of the World Exhibition of 1873 in Vienna awarded his voltage multiplying condenser of cascade connection with a prize \"For Development\". Through this condenser, Jedlik framed the principle of surge generation by cascaded connection. (The cascade connection was an other important invention of Ányos Jedlik)\n\nJedlik's best known invention is the principle of dynamo self-excitation.\n\nIn 1827, Jedlik started experimenting with electromagnetic rotating devices which he called electromagnetic self-rotors.\n\nIn the prototype of the single-pole electric starter, both the stationary and the revolving parts were electromagnetic. In essence, the concept is that instead of permanent magnets, two opposed electromagnets induce the magnetic field around the rotor. He formulated the concept of the self-excited dynamo about 1861, six years before Siemens and Wheatstone.\n\nAs one side of the coil passes in front of the north pole, crossing the line of force, current is induced. As the frame rotates further the current diminishes, then arriving at the front of the south pole it rises again but flows in the opposite direction. The frame is connected to a commutator, thus the current always flows in the same direction in the external circuit.\n\nThe following are all given in the Hungarian Electronic Library:\n\nContributions by Jedlik in other works:\n\n\n"}
