{"id": "39415751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39415751", "title": "1994 Oslo Protocol on Further Reduction of Sulphur Emissions", "text": "1994 Oslo Protocol on Further Reduction of Sulphur Emissions\n\nThe Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution on Further Reduction of Sulphur Emissions is an agreement to provide for a further reduction in sulphur emissions or transboundary fluxes. It is a protocol to the Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution and supplements the 1985 Helsinki Protocol on the Reduction of Sulphur Emissions.\n\n\"opened for signature\" - 14 June 1994\n\n\"entered into force\" - 5 August 1998\n\n\"parties\" - (29) Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, European Union, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Republic of Macedonia, Monaco, Netherlands, Norway, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom\n\n\"countries that have signed, but not yet ratified\" - (3) Poland, Russia, Ukraine\n\n"}
{"id": "25889010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25889010", "title": "1996 France–United Kingdom Maritime Delimitation Agreements", "text": "1996 France–United Kingdom Maritime Delimitation Agreements\n\nThe 1996 France – United Kingdom Maritime Delimitation Agreements are two treaties between France and the United Kingdom which establish a number of maritime boundary between French territories and British territories in the Caribbean Sea.\n\nBoth treaties were signed in London on 27 June 1996. The two treaties entered into force on 30 January 1997 after they had been ratified by both states.\n\nThe first treaty delimits the boundary in the Anguilla Channel between the British territory of Anguilla and the French territories of Saint Martin and Saint Barthélemy. The boundary is a simplified equidistant maritime line that runs in roughly an east–west direction. It consists of seven straight-line segments defined by eight individual coordinate points. The western end of the border forms a tripoint with the Netherlands Antilles and the easternmost end of the border forms the tripoint with Antigua and Barbuda. The full name of the treaty is \"Agreement on maritime delimitation between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland concerning Saint Martin and Saint Barthélemy, on one hand, and Anguilla on the other\".\n\nWhen the treaty was signed, Saint Martin and Saint Barthélemy were both part of the Guadeloupe overseas department of France. In 2007, Saint Martin and Saint Barthélemy became two separate overseas collectivities of France. As a result, the first treaty now defines only the Anguilla – Saint Martin maritime boundary. There is no maritime boundary between Anguilla and the separate collectivity of Saint Barthélemy.\n\nThe second treaty delimits the boundary between the British territory of Montserrat and the French territory of Guadeloupe. The boundary is a simplified equidistant line that runs through the Guadeloupe Passage in roughly an east–west direction. It consists of four straight-line segments defined by five individual coordinate points. The western end of the border forms the tripoint with Venezuela and the easternmost end of the border forms a tripoint with Antigua and Barbuda. The full name of the treaty is \"Agreement on maritime delimitation between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland concerning Guadeloupe and Montserrat\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "67366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=67366", "title": "Absolute monarchy", "text": "Absolute monarchy\n\nAbsolute monarchy is a form of monarchy in which the monarch holds supreme authority and where that authority is not restricted by any written laws, legislature, or customs. These are often, but not always, hereditary monarchies. In contrast, in constitutional monarchies, the head of state's authority derives from and is legally bounded or restricted by a constitution or legislature.\n\nSome monarchies have weak or symbolic legislatures and other governmental bodies the monarch can alter or dissolve at will. Countries where monarchs still maintain absolute power are: Brunei, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Eswatini, Vatican City and the individual emirates composing the United Arab Emirates, which itself is a federation of such monarchies – a federal monarchy.\n\nIn Ancient Egypt, the Pharaoh wielded absolute power over the country and was considered a living god by his people. In ancient Mesopotamia, many rulers of Assyria, Babylonia and Sumer were absolute monarchs as well. In ancient and medieval India, rulers of the Maurya, Satavahana, Gupta and Chalukya Empires, as well as other major and minor empires, were considered absolute monarchs. In the Khmer Empire, the kings were called \"Devaraja\" and \"Chakravartin\" (King of the world), and exercised absolute power over the empire and people. \n\nThroughout Imperial China, many emperors and one empress wielded absolute power through the Mandate of Heaven. In pre-Columbian America, the Inca Empire was ruled by a Sapa Inca, who was considered the son of Inti, the sun god and absolute ruler over the people and nation. Korea under the Joseon dynasty and short-lived empire was also an absolute monarchy. In the Ottoman Empire, many sultans wielded absolute power through heavenly mandates reflected in their title, the \"Shadow of God on Earth\".\n\nThroughout much of European history, the divine right of kings was the theological justification for absolute monarchy. Many European monarchs, such as those of Russia, claimed supreme autocratic power by divine right, and that their subjects had no rights to limit their power. James VI of Scotland (later also James I of England) and his son Charles I of Scotland and England tried to import this principle. Charles I's attempt to enforce episcopal polity on the Church of Scotland led to rebellion by the Covenanters and the Bishops' Wars, then fears that Charles I was attempting to establish absolutist government along European lines was a major cause of the English Civil War, despite the fact that he did rule this way for 11 years starting in 1629, after dissolving the Parliament of England for a time. By the 19th century, the Divine Right was regarded as an obsolete theory in most countries in the Western world, except in Russia where it was still given credence as the official justification for the Tsar's power until February Revolution in 1917.\n\nThere is a considerable variety of opinion by historians on the extent of absolutism among European monarchs. Some, such as Perry Anderson, argue that quite a few monarchs achieved levels of absolutist control over their states, while historians such as Roger Mettam dispute the very concept of absolutism. In general, historians who disagree with the appellation of \"absolutism\" argue that most monarchs labeled as \"absolutist\" exerted no greater power over their subjects than any other \"non-absolutist\" rulers, and these historians tend to emphasize the differences between the absolutist rhetoric of monarchs and the realities of the effective use of power by these absolute monarchs. Renaissance historian William Bouwsma summed up this contradiction:\n\nThough some historians doubt if he truly had, Louis XIV of France (1638–1715) is often said to have proclaimed \"L'état, c'est moi\" (\"I am the State!\"). Although often criticized for his extravagances, such as the Palace of Versailles, he reigned over France for a long period, and some historians consider him a successful absolute monarch. More recently, revisionist historians have questioned whether Louis' reign should be considered 'absolute', given the reality of the balance of power between the monarch and the nobility.\n\nThe King of France concentrated in his person legislative, executive, and judicial powers. He was the supreme judicial authority. He could condemn men to death without the right of appeal. It was both his duty to punish offenses and stop them from being committed. From his judicial authority followed his power both to make laws and to annul them.\n\nOne of his steps in creating an absolute monarchy in France was to build the Palace of Versailles, where he lived with many of his nobles and other important people, in order to control and watch over them.\n\nAbsolutism was underpinned by a written constitution for the first time in Europe in 1665 \"Kongeloven (\"King's Law\")\" of Denmark-Norway, which ordered that the Monarch \"shall from this day forth be revered and considered the most perfect and supreme person on the Earth by all his subjects, standing above all human laws and having no judge above his person, neither in spiritual nor temporal matters, except God alone\". This law consequently authorized the king to abolish all other centers of power. Most important was the abolition of the Council of the Realm.\n\nIn Brandenburg-Prussia, the concept of absolute monarch took a notable turn from the above with its emphasis on the monarch as the \"first servant of the state\", but it also echoed many of the important characteristics of Absolutism. Frederick William (r. 1640–1688), known as the Great Elector, used the uncertainties of the final stages of the Thirty Years' War to consolidate his territories into the dominant kingdom in northern Germany, whilst increasing his power over his subjects. His actions largely originated the militaristic streak of the Hohenzollern.\n\nIn 1653 the Diet of Brandenburg met for the last time and gave Frederick William the power to raise taxes without its consent, a strong indicator of absolutism. Frederick William enjoyed support from the nobles, who enabled the Great Elector to undermine the Diet and other representative assemblies. The leading families saw their future in cooperation with the central government and worked to establish absolutist power.\n\nThe most significant indicator of the nobles' success was the establishment of two tax rates – one for the cities and the other for the countryside – to the great advantage of the latter, which the nobles ruled. The nobles served in the upper levels of the elector's army and bureaucracy, but they also won new prosperity for themselves. The support of the Elector enabled the imposition of serfdom and the consolidation of land holdings into vast estates which provided for their wealth.\n\nThey became known as Junkers (from the German for young lord, \"junger Herr\"). Frederick William faced resistance from representative assemblies and long-independent cities in his realm. City leaders often revolted at the imposition of Electorate authority. The last notable effort was the uprising of the city of Königsberg which allied with the Estates General of Prussia to refuse to pay taxes. Frederick William crushed this revolt in 1662, by marching into the city with thousands of troops. A similar approach was used with the towns of Cleves.\n\nUntil 1905 the Tsars of Russia governed as absolute monarchs. Peter I the Great reduced the power of the Russian nobility and strengthened the central power of the Tsars, establishing a bureaucracy and a police state. This tradition of absolutism, known as Tsarist autocracy, was expanded by Catherine II the Great and her descendants. Although Alexander II made some reforms and established an independent judicial system, Russia did not have a representative assembly or a constitution until the 1905 Revolution. However, the concept of absolutism was so ingrained in Russia that the Russian Constitution of 1906 still described the Tsar as an autocrat. Russia became the last Europe a country (excluding Vatican City) to abolish absolutism, and it was the only one to do so as late as the 20th century (the Ottoman Empire drafted its first constitution in 1877).\n\nThe form of government instituted in Sweden under King Charles XI and passed on to his son, Charles XII is commonly referred to as absolute monarchy; however, the Swedish monarch was never absolute in the sense that he wielded arbitrary power. The monarch still ruled under the law and could only legislate in agreement with the Riksdag of the Estates; rather, the absolutism introduced was the monarch's ability to run the government unfettered by the privy council, contrary to earlier practice. The absolute rule of Charles XI was instituted by the crown and the Riksdag in order to carry out the Great Reduction which would have been made impossible by the privy council which comprised the high nobility. After the death of Charles XII in 1718, the system of absolute rule was largely blamed for the ruination of the realm in the Great Northern War, and the reaction tipped the balance of power to the other extreme end of the spectrum, ushering in the Age of Liberty. After half a century of largely unrestricted parliamentary rule proved just as ruinous, King Gustav III seized back royal power in the coup d'état of 1772, and later once again abolished the privy council under the Union and Security Act in 1789, which, in turn, was rendered void in 1809 when Gustav IV Adolf was deposed in a coup and the constitution of 1809 was put in its place. The years between 1789 and 1809, then, are also referred to as a period of absolute monarchy.\n\nThe popularity of the notion of absolute monarchy declined substantially after the American Revolution and the French Revolution, which promoted theories of government based on popular sovereignty.\n\nMany nations formerly with absolute monarchies, such as Jordan, Kuwait and Morocco, have moved towards constitutional monarchy, although in some cases the monarch retains tremendous power, to the point that the parliament's influence on political life is negligible.\n\nIn Bhutan, the government moved from absolute monarchy to constitutional monarchy following planned parliamentary elections to the Tshogdu in 2003, and the election of a National Assembly in 2008. Nepal had several swings between constitutional rule and direct rule related to the Nepalese Civil War, the Maoist insurgency, and the 2001 Nepalese royal massacre, with the Nepalese monarchy being abolished on May 28, 2008. In Tonga, the King had majority control of the Legislative Assembly until 2010.\n\nOn the other hand, Liechtenstein has moved towards expanding the power of the monarch: the Prince of Liechtenstein was given expanded powers after a referendum amending the Constitution of Liechtenstein in 2003, which led the BBC to describe the prince as an \"absolute monarch again\".\n\nThe ruling Kim family of North Korea (Kim Il-sung, Kim Jong-il and Kim Jong-un) has been described as a \"de facto\" absolute monarchy or \"hereditary dictatorship\". In 2013, Clause 2 of Article 10 of the new edited Ten Fundamental Principles of the Korean Workers' Party states that the party and revolution must be carried \"eternally\" by the \"Baekdu (Kim's) bloodline\".\n\nSaudi Arabia is an absolute monarchy, and according to the Basic Law of Saudi Arabia adopted by royal decree in 1992, the king must comply with Shari'a (Islamic law) and the Qur'an. The Qur'an and the corpus of Sunnah (traditions of the Islamic prophet, Muhammad) are declared to be the Kingdom's constitution, but no written modern constitution has ever been written for Saudi Arabia, which remains one of two Arab nations where no national elections have ever taken place since its founding, with the other being Qatar. No political parties or national elections are permitted and according to \"The Economist's\" 2010 Democracy Index, the Saudi government is the seventh most authoritarian regime from among the 167 countries rated.\n\nAnthropology, sociology, and ethology as well as various other disciplines such as political science attempt to explain the rise of absolute monarchy ranging from extrapolation generally, to certain Marxist explanations in terms of the class struggle as the underlying dynamic of human historical development generally and absolute monarchy in particular.\n\nIn the 17th century, French legal theorist Jean Domat defended the concept of absolute monarchy in works such as \"On Social Order and Absolute Monarchy\", citing absolute monarchy as preserving natural order as God intended.\n\n"}
{"id": "25466713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25466713", "title": "Actio popularis", "text": "Actio popularis\n\nAn actio popularis was an action in Roman penal law brought by a member of the public in the interest of public order.\n\nThe action exists in some modern legal systems. For example, in Spain, an \"actio popularis\" was accepted by Judge Garzón in June 1996 which charged that certain Argentine military officers had committed crimes of genocide and terrorism. The actions were brought by the Free Union of Lawyers, Izquierda Unida and the Madrid Argentine Association for Human Rights: private citizens and organisations who were not themselves the victims of the crimes in the action and who proceeded without the sanction of the public prosecuting authorities. In India, public interest litigation has been used to guarantee several human rights, including the right to health, livelihood, free and compulsory primary education, unpolluted environment, shelter, clean drinking water, privacy, legal aid, speedy trial, and several rights of under-trials, convicts and prisoners. \n"}
{"id": "1935488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1935488", "title": "Article 32 hearing", "text": "Article 32 hearing\n\nAn Article 32 hearing is a proceeding under the United States Uniform Code of Military Justice, similar to that of a preliminary hearing in civilian law. Its name is derived from UCMJ section VII (\"Trial Procedure\") Article 32 (10 U.S.C. § 832), which mandates the hearing.\n\nThe UCMJ specifies several different levels of formality with which infractions can be dealt. The most serious is a \"general court-martial\". An article 32 hearing is required before a defendant can be referred to a general court-martial, in order to determine whether there is enough evidence to merit a general court-martial. Offenders in the US military may face non-judicial punishment, a summary court-martial, special court-martial, general court-martial, or administrative separation. A commanding officer, in the role as court-martial convening authority, will consult with the command judge advocate for advice on case disposition; factors to be considered include, \"inter alia\", the relevant statutory and case law, the seriousness of the offenses, the strength or weakness of each element of the case, the promotion of good order and discipline, and the commander's desire for case disposition.\n\nAn investigation is normally directed when it appears the charges are of such a serious nature that trial by general court-martial may be warranted. The commander directing an investigation under Article 32 details a commissioned officer as investigating officer who will conduct the investigation and make a report of conclusions and recommendations. This officer is never the accuser, trial counsel (judge advocate prosecutor), nor in the accused's chain of command. This officer may or may not have any legal training, although the use of military attorneys (judge advocates) is recommended and common within service practice. If the investigating officer is not a lawyer, he or she may seek legal advice from an impartial source, but may not obtain such advice from counsel for any party.\n\nAn investigative hearing is scheduled as soon as reasonably possible after the investigating officer’s appointment. The hearing is normally attended by the investigating officer, the accused and the defense counsel. The commander will ordinarily detail counsel to represent the United States, and in some cases a court reporter and an interpreter; these appointments are, in practical reality, duty assignments made by the criminal law branch of the command judge advocate's office. Ordinarily, this investigative hearing is open to the public and the media.\n\nThe investigating officer will, generally, review all non-testimonial evidence and then proceed to examination of witnesses. Except for a limited set of rules on privileges, interrogation, and the rape-shield rule (MRE 412), the military rules of evidence do not apply at this investigative hearing. This does not mean, however, that the investigating officer ignores evidentiary issues. The investigating officer will comment on all evidentiary issues that are critical to a case’s disposition. All testimony is taken under oath or affirmation, except that an accused may make an unsworn statement.\n\nThe defense is given wide latitude in cross-examining witnesses. As of 2013 in cases where sexual assault is alleged some critics allege an extremely intrusive and aggressive cross examination of the victim is permitted, a practice which has been cited by critics of the military's handling of sexual assault in the United States military. In one case, a midshipman at the Navy Academy was interrogated for 30 hours over several days about their past sexual behavior. If the commander details an attorney to represent the United States, this government representative will normally conduct a direct examination of the government witnesses. This is followed by cross-examination by the defense and examination by the investigating officer upon completion of questioning by both counsel. Likewise, if a defense witness is called, the defense counsel will normally conduct a direct examination followed by a government cross-examination. After redirect examination by the defense counsel, or completion of questioning by both counsel, the investigating officer may conduct additional examination. The exact procedures to be followed in the hearing are not specified in either the Uniform Code of Military Justice or the Manual for Court-Martial.\n\n\nhttp://www.lawyersclubindia.com/forum/121212-71546.asp\n"}
{"id": "4683689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4683689", "title": "Association without lucrative purpose", "text": "Association without lucrative purpose\n\n' (Dutch, abbreviated vzw) or ' (French, abbreviated asbl) or ' (German, abbreviated VoG\"\"') is the legal term for a 'not-for-profit association' in Belgium; the French term also applies in Luxembourg and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. For international organisations, the equivalent is ivzw or aisbl. It is a formal designation under Belgian and Luxembourg law, and organisations are entered in a register and allocated numeric identifiers.\n\nInternationale vereniging zonder winstoogmerk (Dutch, often abbreviated IVZW) or Association internationale sans but lucratif (French; often abbreviated AISBL) or Internationale Vereinigung ohne Gewinnerzielungsabsicht (German; often abbreviated IVoG) is the legal term used in Belgium for an internationally acting not-for-profit association based on Belgian law and located in Belgium.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997205", "title": "Chambre Ardente", "text": "Chambre Ardente\n\nA Chambre ardente (, \"burning chamber\") was an extraordinary court of justice in \"Ancien Régime\" France, mainly held for the trials of heretics.\n\nThe name is perhaps an allusion to the fact that the proceedings took place in a room from which all daylight was excluded, the only illumination being from torches, or there may be a reference to the severity of the sentences in \"ardente\", suggesting the burning of the prisoners at the stake. These courts were originated by Jean, Cardinal of Lorraine, the first of them meeting in 1535 under Francis I.\n\nThe Chambre Ardente co-operated with an inquisitorial tribunal also established by Francis I, the duty of which was to discover cases of heresy and hand them over for final judgment to the Chambre ardente.\n\nThe reign of Henry II of France was particularly infamous for the cruelties perpetrated by this court on the Huguenots. The Madame de Brinvilliers and her associates were tried in the Chambre Ardente between 1675 and 1680 (the affaire des poisons). The court was abolished in 1682.\n\n"}
{"id": "1345463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1345463", "title": "Chester Barnard", "text": "Chester Barnard\n\nChester Irving Barnard (November 7, 1886 – June 7, 1961) was an American business executive, public administrator, and the author of pioneering work in management theory and organizational studies. His landmark 1938 book, \"The Functions of the Executive\", sets out a theory of organization and of the functions of executives in organizations. The book has been widely assigned in university courses in management theory and organizational sociology. Barnard viewed organizations as systems of cooperation of human activity, and noted that they are typically short-lived. According to Barnard, organizations are generally not long-lived because they do not meet the two criteria necessary for survival: effectiveness and efficiency.\n\nIn his youth, Barnard worked on a farm, then studied economics at Harvard University, earning money selling pianos and operating a dance band. He did not obtain his Harvard BA because he did his four-year work in three years and could not complete a science course, but a number of universities later granted him honorary doctorates.\n\nBarnard joined the American Telephone and Telegraph Company (now AT&T) in 1909. In 1927, he became president of the New Jersey Bell Telephone Company. During the Great Depression, he directed the New Jersey state relief system.\n\nHe was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1939. He was president of the United Service Organizations (USO), 1942-45. Upon retiring from business, he served as president of the Rockefeller Foundation, 1948–52, and as chairman of the National Science Foundation, 1952-54. End 1950s he was among the first members of the Society for General Systems Research.\n\nBarnard viewed organizations as systems of cooperation of human activity, and noted that they are typically short-lived. It is rare for a firm to last more than a century. Similarly most nations last for less than a century. The only organization that can claim a substantial age is the Roman Catholic Church. According to Barnard, organizations are not long-lived because they do not meet the two criteria necessary for survival: effectiveness and efficiency. Effectiveness, is defined the usual way: as being able to accomplish stated goals. In contrast, Barnard's meaning of organizational efficiency differed substantially from the conventional use of the word. He defined efficiency of an organization as the degree to which that organization is able to satisfy the motives of the individuals. If an organization satisfies the motives of its members while attaining its explicit goals, cooperation among its members will last.\n\nBarnard was a great admirer of Talcott Parsons (1902–1979) and he and Parsons corresponded persistently. The two scholars would send manuscripts for commentary to each other and they would write long letters where they engage in a common theoretical discussion. The first correspondence between Barnard and Parsons began in the end of the 1930s and it persisted essentially to Barnard’s death in 1961.\n\nBarnard's classic 1938 book, \"The Functions of the Executive\" discusses, as the title suggests, the functions of the executive, but not from a merely intuitive point of view, but instead deriving them from his conception of cooperative systems.\n\nBarnard summarized the functions of the executive as follows: \n\nBarnard formulated two interesting theories: one of authority and the other of incentives. Both are seen in the context of a communication system grounded in seven essential rules: \n\nThus, what makes a communication authoritative, rests with the subordinate, rather than with his superior. Barnard's perspective had affinities to that of Mary Parker Follett and was very unusual for his time, and that has remained the case down to the present day. He seemed to argue that managers should obtain authority by treating subordinates with respect and competence.\n\nAs for incentives, he proposed two ways of convincing subordinates to cooperate: tangible incentives and persuasion. Barnard gives great importance to persuasion, much more than to economic incentives. He described four general, and four specific incentives. \nThe specific incentives were:\n\nThe general incentives were:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16454984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16454984", "title": "Claims management company", "text": "Claims management company\n\nIn England and Wales, a claims management company is a business that offers claims management services to the public. Claims management services consist of advice or services in respect of claims for compensation, restitution, repayment or any other remedy for loss or damage, or in respect of some other obligation. Claims management services cover litigation, or claims under regulation schemes or voluntary arrangements.\n\nThe abolition of legal aid for personal injury claims, the introduction of conditional fee agreements and the appearance of and growth in claims management companies led to a rapid expansion of litigation from the mid-1990s. This led to public concern at the development of a \"compensation culture\". The collapse of claims management company the Accident Group in 2003 increased disquiet with the system. Such companies used aggressive sales techniques and exaggerated claims, profiting from exorbitant commissions on after the event insurance policies. It was estimated that there were about 1,000 such companies in the UK in 2003. However, there was still evidence that many meritorious claims were discouraged by the difficulties and costs of litigation.These concerns, especially around the operation of conditional fee agreements, led to regulation of the market by Part 2 of the Compensation Act 2006. The activities regulated are those common to the market and which had caused concern:\n\n— in respect of claims:\n\nIn England and Wales, as of 23 April 2007, an individual or a corporation may not, unless exempt or otherwise in receipt of a waiver, provide claims management services by way of business unless authorised by the Claims Management Services Regulator.\nIt is a crime for an unauthorised person to provide or offer claims management services, or to pretend to be authorised. Offenders are punishable, on summary conviction, by a fine of up to level 5 on the standard scale or 51 weeks' imprisonment. If convicted on indictment in the Crown Court, offenders can be sentenced to an unlimited fine or two years' imprisonment. Where a corporate crime is committed, the offender can only be fined and not imprisoned. The claims regulator also covers the processing and evaluation of complaints against claims management companies.\n\nSolicitors, barristers, advocates and some other lawyers are exempt, as are:\n\nIncidental referrals to lawyers are also exempt as are services in respect of counterclaims, or claims for contribution or indemnity.\n\nThe Claims Management Services Regulator was created by section 11 of the Compensation Act 2006. The post of Regulator is occupied by the Secretary of State for Justice to authorise and regulate claims management companies and:\n\nThe rules and procedure for authorisation are defined in the Compensation (Claims Management Services) Regulations 2006. The Regulator may investigate unauthorised trading and seek an injunction to prevent it or bring a criminal prosecution. It is a crime to obstruct the Regulator, punishable on summary conviction by a fine of up to level 5 on the standard scale.\n\nA person may appeal a decision of the Regulator about authorisation to the Claims Management Services Tribunal and there is a further route of appeal to the Court of Appeal.\n\nWhen section 161 of the Legal Services Act 2007 comes into force, claims management services and the Regulator will fall under the supervision of the Office for Legal Complaints and its ombudsman scheme. It has been suggested that the first complaints will not be handled until 2010.\n\nThe Claims Management Services Tribunal was created by section 12 of the Compensation Act 2006 to hear:\n\nIn January 2010 the Tribunal was abolished and its functions transferred to the First-tier Tribunal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19640033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19640033", "title": "Cod fishing in Newfoundland", "text": "Cod fishing in Newfoundland\n\nCod fishing in Newfoundland was carried out at a subsistence level for centuries, but large scale fishing began shortly after the European discovery of the North American continent in 1492, with the waters being found to be preternaturally plentiful, and ended after intense overfishing with the collapse of the fisheries in 1992.\n\nThe Beothuk (called Skraelings by the Vikings) were the native people of Newfoundland, and survived on a diet of caribou, marine mammals and fish. With the arrival of British and French coastal settlements, the Beothuk were forced inland, and the lack of their normal food source contributed to a decrease in the Beothuk population. Beothuk numbers began to dwindle rapidly due to a combination of factors directly relating to European, Inuit and Mi'kmaq migration, and by the 19th Century, the tribe no longer existed.\n\nAfter his voyage in 1497, John Cabot's crew reported that \n\nthe sea there is full of fish that can be taken not only with nets but with fishing-baskets.\n\nand around 1600 English fishing captains still reported cod shoals \n\nso thick by the shore that we hardly have been able to row a boat through them.\n\nIn the early sixteenth century, fishermen from England, France, Spain and Portugal discovered the best places to fish for cod in the waters off Newfoundland, and how best to preserve the fish for the journey home.\n\nThe French, Spanish and Portuguese fishermen tended to fish on the Grand Banks and other banks out to sea, where fish were always available. They salted their fish on board ship and it was not dried until brought to Europe. The English fishermen, however, concentrated on fishing inshore where the fish were only to be found at certain times of the year, during their migrations. These fishermen used small boats and returned to shore every day. They developed a system of light salting, washing and drying onshore which became very popular because the fish could remain edible for years. Many of their coastal sites gradually developed into settlements, notably St. John's, now the provincial capital.\n\nIn the late sixteenth century the Spanish and Portuguese fisheries were terminated, mainly as a result of the failure of the Spanish Armada, and thereafter the English and French shared the fishery every summer until 1904 when the French agreed to relinquish it to the Newfoundland residents.\n\nIn 1951 factory fishing began with new super-trawlers such as the 'Fairtry'; 280 feet long and 2,600 gross tons.\n\nThe cod catch peaked in 1968 at 810,000 tons, approximately three times more than the maximum yearly catch achieved before the super-trawlers. Approximately 8 million tons of cod were caught between 1647 and 1750, a period encompassing 25 to 40 cod generations. The factory trawlers took the same amount in 15 years.\n\nThe industry collapsed entirely in the early 1990s owing to overfishing and debatably, greed, lack of foresight and poor local administration. By 1993 six cod populations had collapsed, forcing a belated moratorium on fishing. Spawning biomass had decreased by at least 75% in all stocks, by 90% in three of the six stocks, and by 99% in the case of 'northern' cod, previously the largest cod fishery in the world.\n\nAfter a 10-year moratorium on fishing begun in 1992, the cod had still not returned. It was thought that the local ecosystem might have changed, one possibility being that greater numbers of capelin, which used to provide food for the cod, might be eating the juvenile cod. The waters appeared to be dominated by crab and shrimp rather than fish. However, by 2011 it became apparent that the fisheries were returning to their original abundance, just more slowly than had been anticipated.\n\nThe \"Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement\" (CETA) between Canada and the European Union is a Free Trade Agreement which is still under negotiation as of May 2015. The provincial government has argued that the Federal government of Canada in Ottawa reneged on a deal to pay $280 million in exchange for its relinquishment of minimum processing requirements as part of CETA. Those rules helped protect jobs in fish plants, especially in rural areas hit hard by the cod moratorium since 1992.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6501864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6501864", "title": "Constitution of Pylyp Orlyk", "text": "Constitution of Pylyp Orlyk\n\nThe Constitution of Pylyp Orlyk ( (\"Konstytutsiya Pylypa Orlyka\") or Pacts and Constitutions of Rights and Freedoms of the Zaporizhian Host (\"Pakty i Konstytutsii Prav i Volnostei Viyska Zaporozkoho\"), ) was a 1710 constitutional document written by Hetman Pylyp Orlyk, a Cossack of Ukraine. Sometimes it is called the Bendery Constitution.\n\nIt established a democratic standard for the separation of powers in government between the legislative, executive, and judiciary branches, well before the publication of Montesquieu's \"Spirit of the Laws\". The Constitution limited the executive authority of the hetman, and established a democratically elected Cossack parliament called the General Council. Pylyp Orlyk's Constitution was unique for its historic period, and was one of the first state constitutions in Europe.\n\nAfter the Battle of Poltava, when Charles XII of Sweden's and Hetman Ivan Mazepa's armies were defeated by Peter I of Russia, Pylyp Orlyk remained with Mazepa. Together, Orlyk, Mazepa, and their Cossack forces retreated to the city of Bendery, in Bessarabia (now Moldova, then part of the Ottoman Empire). The Zaporizhian Cossack Army also settled in this area.\n\nWhen Mazepa died on 5 April 1710, Pylyp Orlyk was elected as the Hetman of the Zaporizhian Host. On the same day, he issued the \"Pacts and Constitutions of Rights and Freedoms of the Zaporizhian Host.\" Hence, Orlyk's Constitution is sometimes referred to by the city of its proclamation, Bendery.\n\nThe document is made up of a preamble \nand 16 articles.\n\nThe preamble briefly discusses Cossack history, their Khazar origin, the rise of the Zaporizhian Sich and its downfall when after under Bohdan Khmelnytsky it rebelled against the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth and ended up serving Imperial Russia. According to the introduction, using all available means, Moscow limited and nullified rights and freedoms of the Zaporizhian Host and eventually subjugated the free Cossack nation. Ivan Mazepa's politics and alliance with Charles XII of Sweden are explained as logical and inevitable, mandated by the need to free the homeland. The independence of the new state from Russia is given as the primary goal of the Bendery Constitution.\n\nArticles 1-3 dealt with general Ukrainian affairs. They proclaimed the Orthodox faith to be the faith of Ukraine, and independent of the patriarch of Moscow. The Sluch River was designated as the boundary between Ukraine and Poland. The articles also recognized the need for an anti-Russian alliance between Ukraine and the Crimean Khanate.\n\nArticles 4-5 reflected the interests of the Zaporozhian Cossacks, who constituted the overwhelming majority of the Bendery emigration. The Hetman was obligated: \nArticles 6-10 limited the powers of the hetman and established a Cossack parliament, similar to an extended council of officers, which was to meet three times a year. The General Council was to consist not only of the general staff and the regimental colonels, but also of \"an outstanding and worthy individual from each regiment.\"\n\nArticles 11-16 protected the rights of towns, limited the taxation of peasants and poor Cossacks, and restricted the innkeepers. Charles XII, king of Sweden and \"the protector of Ukraine,\" happened to be in Bendery at the time, and confirmed these articles.\n\nOn 9 April 2010, the 300th anniversary of the creation of the Constitution, a monument was dedicated in Bender. The monument is in the form of a book with engraved information about the history of the writing of the Constitution and its full name in Ukrainian and Latin.\n\nOn Constitution Day 2018 Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko remarked that the 1710 Constitution of Pylyp Orlyk is the predecessor of Ukraine's current constitution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7696135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7696135", "title": "Controversies of the Polish–Soviet War", "text": "Controversies of the Polish–Soviet War\n\nControversies of the Polish-Soviet War, fought in 1919–20, concern the behaviour of the military forces and crimes they committed. Each side charged the other with violations of international law in an effort to sway public opinion in the West, which was felt to be important for both sides.\n\nDuring this war between two countries experiencing great socioeconomic difficulties, and often unable to care for their own populations, the treatment of prisoners of war was far from adequate, with tens of thousands on both sides dying of communicable diseases. Between 16,000 to 20,000 of Soviet POWs – out of 80,000 – died in Polish camps; and about 20,000 – out of 51,000 – Polish POWs died in Soviet and Lithuanian camps.\n\nAfter 1922 Polish and Russian prisoners were exchanged between the two sides. Ekaterina Peshkova, the chairwoman of the organization \"Assistance to Political Prisoners\" (Pompolit, \"Помощь политическим заключенным\", Помполит). was recognised by the Polish Red Cross for her participation in the exchange of POWs after the Polish-Soviet War.\n\nThe Polish side claimed that during the Soviet retreat from Berdychiv, Kiev and Zhytomyr mass hostage-taking of civilians occurred, with hostages forced to go with the Red Army all the way to the rear of the front. Similar claims were made that when returning to Berdychiv the Bolsheviks threw out the sick and wounded from the hospital \"disregarding the lives and honor of the medical personnel\" and that in general the Soviet advance into Ukraine was characterized by mass killing of civilians and the burning of entire villages, especially by Budyonny's cossacks, designed to terrorise the Ukrainian population.\n\nIn January 1918 in Cichinicze near Mohylow Bolsheviks shot patients and personnel of a Polish hospital.\n\nBehind Polish lines, Soviet forces hanged suspected enemies on the spot. Ultimately, in the pacification of Ukraine that began during the Soviet counteroffensive in 1920 and which would not end until 1922, the Soviets would take tens of thousands of Ukrainian lives. On 7 June, the same day Budyonny's Cossacks, spreading terror in the rear of recently broken Polish frontlines, burned a hospital in Berdychiv, with 600 patients and International Red Cross nuns inside.\n\nThere were also accusations against Stanisław Bułak-Bałachowicz, a former officer of the Imperial Russian and Bolsheviks armies, who switched sides in the conflict and became a general in Poland. Although Bułak-Bałachowicz was regarded as a national hero to Belarusians in Poland for protecting them against Bolshevik terror, and his refusal to kill peasants on orders from Soviets, he is said to have behaved like an absolute ruler in the territories controlled by his troops, even conducting public executions As one Polish officer wrote in a letter to his wife: \"This is a person without ideology. The bandit and the murderer and his comrades – subordinates are just like that. They know no shame and are similar to barbarians... I witnessed throwing the cut-off heads of Bolsheviks under his feet... The massacre of Bolsheviks was horrific\".\n\nIn 1919, Russian Jews were caught in the middle of a civil war, and became the victims of warring Red and White Russian, Ukrainian and Polish forces, among others, resulting in the loss of an estimated 100,000 Jewish lives. White Russian troops led by Denikin staged pogroms against Jews in practically every town he captured. In Ukraine at this time, murders of Jews took place on an unprecedented scale, second only to the Holocaust years of World War II.\n\nIsaac Babel, a war correspondent embedded with the Red Army, in his 1920 diary wrote down many first-hand accounts of atrocities committed by both sides against Jews. On 5 April 1919 in Pinsk, a Polish officer, after hearing reports that Jewish inhabitants of the city were preparing to riot, panicked and ordered the execution of thirty-five Jews (Pinsk massacre). Similar hostilities, resulting in fewer casualties, took place in other towns. In Lida soldiers stopped several elderly Jews and cut off their beards with sabres and knives. During the pillage of Lida, Jewish homes were looted and 30 Jews were killed. Violence against Jews caused a major uproar and condemnation in the Polish Parliament. Ignacy Daszyński, leader of the Polish Socialist Party called all soldiers that committed acts of violence against the Jewish population \"hooligans in uniform\". However, Minister of War General Józef Leśniewski, in his written reply to the speaker of Parliament, defended anti-Jewish violence by Polish units in Lida, referring to Jews as a Communist-minded community and stating that the Polish Army had the right to kill their adversaries.\n\nThe ordeal of Jewish victims at the hands of the Poles could not be equated with the massacres committed by Denikin's troops.\n\nHowever, reports of these incidents caused the United States to send a commission led by Henry Morgenthau, Sr. and Sir Stuart M. Samuel to investigate. According to the findings of this Anglo-American Investigating Commission, a total of about 300 Jews lost their lives in all incidents involving Poles. The commission also found that the Polish military and civil authorities did their best to prevent such incidents and their recurrence in the future. The Morgenthau report stated that some forms of discrimination against Jews was of political rather than anti-Semitic nature and specifically avoided use of the term \"pogrom,\" noting that the term was used to apply to a wide range of excesses, and had no specific definition.\n\nSociologist Tadeusz Piotrowski noted that the Morgenthau Report admitted that the word \"pogrom\" was inapplicable to the conditions existing within a war zone. Richard C. Lukas argues that in some places, Jews had made themselves vulnerable by collaborating with Poland's Lithuanian and Soviet enemies.\n\nBoth sides in the conflict raised complaints about property destruction in diplomatic notes addressed to the Entente. One note raised by the Soviet side stated that during the Soviet advance the retreating Poles engaged in \"vengeful vandalism\", as in Borisov where the Poles, following their retreat, shelled the city with artillery from the opposite bank of the Berezina River \"killing hundreds of people and leaving thousands without shelter.\"\n\nAnother joint diplomatic note issued by Soviet Ukraine and Soviet Russia to the Entente blamed the Poles for heavily damaging Kiev, including its civilian and art objects, such as St Volodymyr's Cathedral, a charge the Poles denied, admitting only to the destruction of the Kiev bridges, in order to slow down the Red Army. That particular note seems to be based on a telegram by Leon Trotsky, who later admitted that parts of it were false.\n\nAround the same time, two days after breaking through the Polish front line – Budyonny's 1st Army destroyed the bridges in Zhytomyr, wrecked the railway station and burned various buildings; Budyonny's troops would continue to spread terror and wreck infrastructure over the coming month in western Ukraine and eastern Poland, to delay the Polish army and disrupt its logistics.\n"}
{"id": "55870946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55870946", "title": "Counterfeit illegal drug selling", "text": "Counterfeit illegal drug selling\n\nSelling counterfeit illegal drugs is a crime in many U.S. states' legal codes and in the federal law of the United States. It is also illegal to sell counterfeit drugs in the United Kingdom. The fake drugs are sometimes termed as imitation controlled substances.\n\nSome fake drugs consist of substances from relatively harmless sources, such as grocery store goods like flour, oregano or allergy pills. Even despite the substances' harmlessness, legal penalties for the crime of selling them can include time in jail.\n\nCertain fake drugs include other controlled drugs, or they may include synthetic drugs with similar properties. Uncertainty of an identity of the substance may increase the risk of an overdose.\n\nA related, yet distinct, problem is the trade of counterfeit medications with pills including substances such as fentanyl which can be used recreationally.\n\nThere is a low chance of law punishing fraud among illicit drug traders, however it is likely that informal social control among drug traders reduces the likelihood of fraud between illegal trade partners. For instance, getting robbed or losing a business contact may not justify dealer's increased profits for a short-term from fraudulent behavior.\n\nSelling counterfeit illicit drugs is illegal even if the substances used to make the imitation drug are not illegal on themselves. It is illegal to distribute or sell counterfeit fake drugs in many U.S. states including Nevada, Ohio, Illinois, Florida, Michigan and Massachusetts. Selling counterfeit illicit drugs is also illegal in the United Kingdom.\n\nSelling counterfeit illicit drugs is illegal under the U.S. federal law. Relevant parts of the U.S. federal law include 21 U.S.C. Section 331 and 18 U.S. Code § 1001.\n\n21 U.S.C. Section 331 makes it illegal to sell an adulterated or misbranded drug in interstate commerce.\n\n18 U.S. Code § 1001 bans\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18739856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18739856", "title": "Dollar Sweets dispute", "text": "Dollar Sweets dispute\n\nThe Dollar Sweets dispute in 1985 was a small industrial dispute with major legal ramifications in industrial relations where an employer resorted to a common law verdict and damages in a case in the Supreme Court of Victoria to resolve a dispute after industrial courts proved ineffective. It was the first time a trade union was forced to pay common law damages to an employer for losses suffered through picketing in Australia. The dispute was also significant for boosting the career of the barrister representing the company, Peter Costello, leading him to stand for federal Parliament and become Treasurer in the Howard Government.\n\nDollar Sweets was a confectionery company in the Melbourne suburb of Malvern employing 27 people on a 38-hour week basis. The award for the industry specified a 40-hour week. The Hawke Government and the ACTU had entered into a wages accord which provided employer superannuation, reduced taxation and other social gains in return for unions agreeing to not pursue excessive wage claims. At the same time, centralised wage fixing was introduced in September 1983 where indexed wage rises were automatically granted to those workers whose unions undertook to abide by the Arbitration Commission's principles.\n\nSeveral small unions, including the Federated Confectioners Association of Australia, refused to join the accord.\n\nThe company owner, Fred Stauder, proposed an agreement with his employees in November 1983, that if they agreed to abide by the principles of the Arbitration Commission, the company would pay them the prescribed increases. All 27 employees agreed to the proposal.\n\nIn July 1985, the Federated Confectioners Association started a campaign with employers for a 36-hour week. Although this breached Arbitration Commission wage-fixing principles, the union had never agreed to accept those principles. When the union demanded negotiations with Stauder on a 36-hour week, Stauder told the union he could not afford to reduce hours and offered to show his accounts to the union. A reduction in hours would have also broken the 1983 agreement Stauder had reached with his employees.\n\nStauder offered his 27 employees that if they wished to continue to receive over-award pay for a (below-award) 38-hour week, they could do so if they signed a no-strike agreement; but, if they wanted to work a 36-hour week, they would have to find it elsewhere. Twelve employees accepted Stauder's offer, whereas the other 15 refused to sign the no-strike agreement and were subsequently sacked by the company, with the company employing another 15 workers in their place on existing conditions.\n\nOn 22 July 1985, a picket line was established by the sacked workers outside the Dollar Sweets factory. The picket line remained for 143 days, with the company refusing to reinstate the workers.\n\nBy October 1985, the company was still refusing to reinstate the sacked workers but through the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission had provided \"an offer to assist in finding alternate employment within the industry and also to supply references to those people.\" Commissioner Bain recommended \"that those who have been picketing should accept the employer's offer and cease their picketing forthwith.\"\n\nA number of bomb and arson threats were made against Dollar Sweets and one strike-breaking driver was assaulted and his truck vandalised. At one point, phone and telex lines were cut to the factory with telecom workers refusing to cross the picket line to repair the services.\n\nDollar Sweets received strong support and assistance from Richard Mulcahy, chief executive officer of the Confectionery Manufacturers of Australia. By December 1985, it was decided to seek an injunction under common law against the union in the Supreme Court of Victoria, with solicitor Michael Kroger engaging Alan Goldberg to lead junior barrister and future federal Treasurer Peter Costello to represent the company. The case was financed by the Victorian Chamber of Commerce.\n\nThe company alleged union interference with contractual relations, intimidation, nuisance, and a conspiracy to injure the plaintiff and sought an injunction and punitive damages. Victorian Supreme Court Justice Peter Murphy gave judgement, issued restraining orders on 12 December with the picket ending the next day. In his judgement, Murphy described the picketing as \"stupid and nihilistic.\" He ruled that this was not a \"lawful form of picketing, but a... nuisance involving obstruction, harassment, and besetting\". It was beside the point that there were specialist courts for industrial disputes. \"This court is not without power ... and should intervene\". He issued an interlocutory injunction against the picket, The common law damages claim was settled in April 1988, when the union paid the sum of $175,000 to Dollar Sweets as compensation for the losses it suffered as a result of the picket.\n\nFred Stauder sold Dollar Sweets Holding Limited in 1999, which is now called Snack Foods Limited.\n\nPeter Costello described the case as \"\"It came to be bracketed with the Mudginberri Abattoir case as a great victory against militant unionism\".\n\nDoug Cameron, the secretary of the Australian Manufacturing Workers Union, with which the Federated Confectioners Association amalgamated, saw the dispute as a turning point. \"It was when the social contract between workers, business and the government started to collapse,\" and \"It became a cause celebre for the big end of town and lawyers started to realise they could make money ripping off the pay and conditions of workers.\"\"\n"}
{"id": "26540753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26540753", "title": "Dublin Statement", "text": "Dublin Statement\n\nThe Dublin Statement on Water and Sustainable Development, also known as the Dublin Principles, was a meeting of experts on water related problems that took place on 31 January 1992 at the International Conference on Water and the Environment (ICWE), Dublin, Ireland, organised on 26–31 January 1992.\n\nThe Dublin Statement on Water and Sustainable Development recognises the increasing scarcity of water as a result of the different conflicting uses and overuses of water.\n\nThe declaration sets out recommendations for action at local, national and international levels to reduce the scarcity, through the following four guiding principles:\n\n\nThe emphasis of the Dublin Statement on \"the economic value\" of water rather than water as \"a universal right\" is highly contested by NGOs and human rights activists (although the full text of principle 4 does state \"it is vital to recognize first the basic right of all human beings to have access to clean water and sanitation at an affordable price\")\n\nIn November 2002, however, the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights adopted \"General Comment No. 15\", which was formulated by experts as a comment on articles 11 and 12 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. In this comment, water is recognised not only as a limited natural resource and a public good but also as a human right. This step - adopting General Comment No. 15 - was seen as a decisive step towards the recognition of water as universal right.\n\nOn 30 September 2010, the 15th Session of the UN Human Rights Council passed Resolution A/HRC/15/L.14, reaffirming an earlier General Assembly resolution (64/292 of 28 July 2010) which \"recognized the right to safe and clean drinking water and sanitation as a human right that is essential for the full enjoyment of life and all human rights\". Resolution A/HRC/15/L.14 clarifies that \"the human right to safe drinking water and sanitation is derived from the right to an adequate standard of living and inextricably related to the right to the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health, as well as the right to life and human dignity\".\n\n"}
{"id": "12164260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12164260", "title": "European Union Customs Union", "text": "European Union Customs Union\n\nThe European Union Customs Union (EUCU) is a customs union which consists of all the member states of the European Union (EU), Monaco, and some dependencies of the United Kingdom which are not part of the EU (Akrotiri and Dhekelia, a British Overseas Territory; and the British Crown dependencies: Bailiwick of Guernsey, Bailiwick of Jersey, and the Isle of Man). Some territories within the EU do not participate in the customs union, usually as a result of their geographic distance. Besides the EUCU, the EU, through separate agreements, is in customs unions with Andorra, San Marino, and Turkey, with the exceptions of certain goods.\n\nThe customs union is a principal component of the European Economic Community, established in 1958, and now succeeded by the European Union. No customs duties are levied on goods travelling within the customs union and – unlike a free trade area – members of the customs union impose a common external tariff on all goods entering the union.\n\nA precondition of the customs union is that the European Commission negotiates for and on behalf of the Union as a whole in international trade deals such as the World Trade Organization, rather than each member state negotiating individually.\n\nMonaco and the British dependencies of Akrotiri and Dhekelia, Guernsey, the Isle of Man and Jersey are integral parts of the EU's customs territory.\n\nAndorra, San Marino and Turkey, a candidate for EU membership, are each in a customs union with the EU.\n\nWhile all EU member states are part of the customs union, not all of their respective territories participate. Territories of member states which have remained outside of the EU (overseas countries and territories of the European Union) generally do not participate in the customs union.\n\nHowever, there are seven territories that are within the EU which do not participate in the customs union:\n\nThe Union Customs Code (UCC), intended to modernise customs procedures, entered into force on 1 May 2016. Implementation will take place over a period of time and full implementation is anticipated by 31 December 2020 at the latest. The European Commission has stated that the aims of the UCC are simplicity, service and speed.\n\nThe EU Customs Union sets the tariff rates for imports to the EU from other countries. These rates are detailed and depend on the specific type of product imported, and can also vary by the time of year. The full WTO Most Favoured Nation tariff rates apply only to those countries that do not have a Free Trade Agreement with the EU, or are not on a WTO recognised exemption scheme such as Everything but Arms (an EU support arrangement for Least Developed Countries).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4130741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4130741", "title": "Federal Bar Council", "text": "Federal Bar Council\n\nThe Federal Bar Council is a not-for-profit specialty Bar association whose membership consists of lawyers and judges who practice primarily in federal courts within the Second Circuit. The Second Circuit covers the following districts:\nDistrict of Connecticut, Eastern District of New York, Northern District of New York, Southern District of New York, Western District of New York and District of Vermont. The Federal Bar Council's offices are in White Plains, New York.\n\nThe organization was created as a separate organization by act of the New York State Legislature, effective April 1932, under the name \"the Federal Bar Association of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut.\" It adopted its current, shorter name in 1968.\n\nAll timeline items are cited from the Federal Bar Council History Webpage.\n\n"}
{"id": "17820425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17820425", "title": "Fine on alienation", "text": "Fine on alienation\n\nA fine on alienation (see Alienation (property law)), in feudal law, was a sum of money paid to the lord by a tenant when he had occasion to make over his land to another. It is similar in nature to a relief, a payment made by an heir to the lord to receive his inheritance.\n"}
{"id": "3694076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3694076", "title": "Football Spectators Act 1989", "text": "Football Spectators Act 1989\n\nThe Football Spectators Act 1989 is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom enacted during the premiership of Margaret Thatcher. Its provisions apply primarily to football (soccer) matches played in England and Wales. Amendments to the act were made through the Football (Offences and Disorder) Act 1999, the Football (Disorder) Act 2000, and the Violent Crime Reduction Act 2006, the last of which repealed large sections of the Football Spectators Act 1989.\n\nThe aim of the Act was to identify individuals known to cause disorder at and around football matches, whether in the UK itself or abroad. It was originally intended that fans would have to give a passport number to become part of a membership scheme and receive an identity card so as to go to away matches, but eventually this was not enacted.\n\nThe Act and its amendments identifies a number of specific offenses related to fan behavior, including the throwing of objects onto the field or into the crowd; racist or obscene chanting at a match; violence against persons or property, including threats and endangerment of any person's life; a variety of alcohol-related offenses; and the bringing or being in possession of fireworks into or at a designated sporting event. However, almost any criminal offence connected with a game that occurs within 24 hours on either end of a football match can also be designated as a football-related offense.\n\nThe Act also introduced the football banning order (FBO), under which a magistrate can ban an individual from attending football matches (whether either domestic or foreign) for a period of 2-10 years and can also impose additional restrictions. FBOs are usually imposed by the court after someone has been convicted of a football-related offense, although they can be imposed even on individuals charged but acquitted of such offenses, or in response to police representations that the FBO would prevent football-related violence or disorder. \n"}
{"id": "24467419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24467419", "title": "Forum for International Conciliation and Arbitration", "text": "Forum for International Conciliation and Arbitration\n\nThe Forum for International Conciliation and Arbitration (FICA) is a non-governmental organisation providing arbitration, dispute-resolution and dispute-avoidance services, founded by Ben Beaumont.\n\nThe first operation was initiated by ITC which recommended FICA to work with the Law Association of Zambia to create a new Arbitration Act, enacted in 2002, and train potential Arbitrators during 1996/1997 with funding provided by Chemonics and USAID.\n\nBen Beaumont was co-opted into the Expert Group of Working Group VI Secured Transactions assisting with the Draft Legislative Guide to the Model Law of Secured Transactions 2005-07.\n\nIn 2002 FICA was invited with Observer status to attend UNCITRAL and is accredited to the WTO in 1999 and International Trade Centre (ITC) in 1998.\n\n"}
{"id": "24981312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24981312", "title": "Hedonology", "text": "Hedonology\n\nHedonology (Hedonics), is the study of the impact an injury or incident had on a persons lifestyle.\n\nThe Hedonology Institute was developed by Jeffrey Francis Magrowski, Ph.D., CRC, CRE. A trademark for Hedonology was registered in 1990 and abandoned in 1999 while Magrowski attended college and his studies in Vocational Rehabilitation.\n\nThe development and use of Hedonics admissibility of scientific evidence for use in the legal system is set by the standard of Hedonic damages to evaluate non-economic damages using the American Juris Jurisprudence method (1988), based on the Frye Standard and supported by the Daubert Test. The determination of present and future pain and suffering is taken into account. Generally, the fact that statistics can be used, but must get the same result was proven in the use of Hedonics.\n\nThe Hedonics model and analysis was first accepted in 1991 in United States Claims Court: Joshua Wasson V. Secretary of the Dept. of Health and Human Services, No. 90-208V. The second case accepting Hedonics in the legal system was in Gary D. Wyatt, Sr. V. The United States of America (Veteran's Administration) 4:94CV1567-DJS September 23, 1996.\n\nAn Economist, Stan V. Smith, developed a theory of economic damages (as opposed to non-pecuniary, or non-economic damages) for Hedonic Damages based on the value of a human life by statistical analysis, which has not met the Frye or Daubert Test under admissibility in a court of law in several states.\n\nhttp://www.nafe.net/JFE/j04_3_am.pdf\nhttp://cases.justia.com/us-court-of-appeals/F2/988/131/142052/\nUnited States Court of Appeals, Federal Circuit. - 988 F.2d 131\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45694879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45694879", "title": "Hillary Clinton email controversy", "text": "Hillary Clinton email controversy\n\nDuring her her tenure as United States Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton drew controversy by using her family's private email server for official communications rather than using official State Department email accounts maintained on secure federal servers. An FBI examination of Clinton's server found over 100 emails containing classified information, including 65 emails deemed \"Secret\" and 22 deemed \"Top Secret\", none with classification markings. An additional 2,093 emails not marked classified were retroactively classified by the State Department. \n\nSome experts, officials, and members of Congress contended that Clinton's use of a private messaging system and a private server violated State Department protocols and procedures, as well as federal laws and regulations governing recordkeeping. Clinton responded that her use complied with federal laws and State Department regulations, and that former secretaries of state had also maintained personal email accounts. News reports indicated that the emails discussed \"innocuous\" matters already available in the public domain. For example, the CIA drone program has been widely discussed in the public domain since the early 2000s; however, the very existence of the program is technically classified, so even sharing a newspaper article that mentions it would constitute a security breach as far as the CIA is concerned. \n\nThe controversy was a major point of discussion during the 2016 presidential election, in which Clinton was the Democratic nominee. In May, the State Department's Office of the Inspector General released a report about the State Department's email practices, including Clinton's. In July, FBI director James Comey announced that the FBI investigation had concluded that Clinton had been \"extremely careless\" but recommended that no charges be filed. Clinton's opponent, presidential candidate Donald Trump, used the nickname \"Crooked Hillary\" to criticize Clinton primarily for the email controversy. Trump supporters adopted the chant \"lock her up\" to imply Clinton had committed a crime.\n\nOn October 28, 2016, days before the election, Comey notified Congress that the FBI had started looking into newly discovered emails. On November 6, Comey notified Congress that the FBI had not changed its original conclusion. Comey's timing was contentious, with critics saying that he had violated Department of Justice guidelines and precedent and prejudiced the public against Clinton. The controversy received more media coverage than any other topic during the presidential campaign. Clinton and other observers argue that the reopening of the investigation contributed to her loss in the election. In April 2018, Comey said his announcement had been influenced by the fact that he thought it extremely likely that Clinton would become the next President. On June 14, 2018, the Department of Justice's Office of the Inspector General released its report on the FBI's and DOJ's handling of Clinton's investigation.\n\nPrior to her appointment as Secretary of State in 2009, Clinton and her circle of friends and colleagues communicated via BlackBerry phones. State Department security personnel suggested this would pose a security risk during her tenure. The email account used on Clinton's BlackBerry was then hosted on a private server in the basement of her home in Chappaqua, New York, but that information was not disclosed to State Department security personnel or senior State Department personnel.\n\nSetting up a secure desktop computer in her office was suggested, but Clinton was unfamiliar with their use and opted for the convenience of her BlackBerry, not the State Department, government protocol of a secured desktop computer. Efforts to find a secure solution were abandoned by Clinton, and she was warned by State Department security personnel about the vulnerability of an unsecured BlackBerry to hacking. She affirmed her knowledge of the danger, and was reportedly told that the Bureau of Diplomatic Security had obtained intelligence about her vulnerability while she was on a trip to Asia, but continued to use her BlackBerry outside her office.\n\nAt the time of Senate confirmation hearings on Hillary Clinton's nomination as Secretary of State, the domain names clintonemail.com, wjcoffice.com, and presidentclinton.com were registered to Eric Hoteham, with the home of Clinton and her husband in Chappaqua, New York, as the contact address. The domains were pointed to a private email server that Clinton (who never had a state.gov email account) used to send and receive email, and which was purchased and installed in the Clintons' home for her 2008 presidential campaign.\n\nThe email server was located in the Clintons' home in Chappaqua, New York, from January 2009 until 2013, when it was sent to a data center in New Jersey before being handed over to Platte River Networks, a Denver-based information technology firm that Clinton hired to manage her email system.\n\nThe server itself runs a Microsoft Exchange 2010 server with access to emails over the internet being delivered by Outlook Web App. The web page is secured with a TLS certificate to allow information to be transmitted securely when using the website. However, for the first two months of its use - January 2009 through March 29, 2009 - the web page was reportedly not secured with a TLS certificate, meaning that information transmitted using the service was unencrypted and may have been liable to interception.\n\nAs early as 2009, officials with the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) expressed concerns over possible violations of normal federal government record-keeping procedures at the State Department under then-Secretary Clinton.\n\nIn December 2012, near the end of Clinton's tenure as Secretary of State, a nonprofit group called Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, or CREW, filed a FOIA request seeking records about her email. CREW received a response in May 2013: \"no records responsive to your request were located.\" Emails sent to Clinton's private clintonemail.com address were first discovered in March 2013, when a hacker named \"Guccifer\" widely distributed emails sent to Clinton from Sidney Blumenthal, which Guccifer obtained by illegally accessing Blumenthal's email account. The emails dealt with the 2012 Benghazi attack and other issues in Libya and revealed the existence of her clintonemail.com address.\n\nBlumenthal did not have a security clearance when he received material from Clinton that has since been characterized as classified by the State Department.\n\nIn the summer of 2014, lawyers from the State Department noticed a number of emails from Clinton's personal account, while reviewing documents requested by the House Select Committee on Benghazi. A request by the State Department for additional emails led to negotiations with her lawyers and advisors. In October, the State Department sent letters to Clinton and all previous Secretaries of State back to Madeleine Albright requesting emails and documents related to their work while in office. On December 5, 2014, Clinton lawyers delivered 12 file boxes filled with printed paper containing more than 30,000 emails. Clinton withheld almost 32,000 emails deemed to be of a personal nature. Datto, Inc., which provided data backup service for Clinton's email, agreed to give the FBI the hardware that stored the backups.\n\nAs of May 2016, no answer had been provided to the public as to whether 31,000 emails deleted by Hillary Clinton as personal have been or could be recovered.\n\nA March 2, 2015 \"New York Times\" article broke the story that the Benghazi panel had discovered that Clinton exclusively used her own private email server rather than a government-issued one throughout her time as Secretary of State, and that her aides took no action to preserve emails sent or received from her personal accounts as required by law. At that point, Clinton announced that she had asked the State Department to release her emails. Some in the media labeled the controversy \"emailgate.\"\n\nAccording to Clinton's spokesperson Nick Merrill, a number of government officials have used private email accounts for official business, including secretaries of state before Clinton.\n\nState Department spokesperson Marie Harf said that: \"For some historical context, Secretary Kerry is the first secretary of state to rely primarily on a state.gov email account.\" John Wonderlich, a transparency advocate with the Sunlight Foundation, observed while many government officials used private email accounts, their use of private email servers was much rarer.\n\nDan Metcalfe, a former head of the Justice Department's Office of Information and Privacy, said this gave her even tighter control over her emails by not involving a third party such as Google and helped prevent their disclosure by Congressional subpoena. He added: \"She managed successfully to insulate her official emails, categorically, from the FOIA, both during her tenure at State and long after her departure from it—perhaps forever,\" making it \"a blatant circumvention of the FOIA by someone who unquestionably knows better.\"\n\nAccording to Harf, use by government officials of personal email for government business is permissible under the Federal Records Act, so long as relevant official communications, including all work-related emails, are preserved by the agency. The Act (which was amended in late 2014 after Clinton left office to require that personal emails be transferred to government servers within 20 days) requires agencies to retain all official communications, including all work-related emails, and stipulates that government employees cannot destroy or remove relevant records. NARA regulations dictate how records should be created and maintained, require that they must be maintained \"by the agency\" and \"readily found,\" and that the records must \"make possible a proper scrutiny by the Congress.\" Section 1924 of Title 18 of the United States Code addresses the deletion and retention of classified documents, under which \"knowingly\" removing or housing classified information at an \"unauthorized location\" is subject to a fine, or up to a year in prison.\n\nExperts such as Metcalfe agree that these practices are allowed by federal law assuming that the material is not supposed to be classified, or at least these practices are allowed in case of emergencies, but they discourage these practices, believing that official email accounts should be used.\n\nJason R. Baron, the former head of litigation at NARA, described the practice as \"highly unusual\" but not a violation of the law. In a separate interview, he said, \"It is very difficult to conceive of a scenario—short of nuclear winter—where an agency would be justified in allowing its cabinet-level head officer to solely use a private email communications channel for the conduct of government business.\" Baron told the Senate Judiciary Committee in May 2015 that \"any employee's decision to conduct all email correspondence through a private email network, using a non-\".gov\" address, is inconsistent with long-established policies and practices under the Federal Records Act and NARA regulations governing all federal agencies.\"\n\nIn May 2016, the Department's Office of the Inspector General Steve Linick released an 83-page report about the State Department's email practices. The Inspector General was unable to find evidence that Clinton had ever sought approval from the State Department staff for her use of a private email server, determining that if Clinton had sought approval, Department staff would have declined her setup because of the \"security risks in doing so.\" Aside from security risks, the report stated that \"she did not comply with the Department's policies that were implemented in accordance with the Federal Records Act.\" Each of these findings contradicted what Clinton and her aides had been saying up to that point. The report also stated that Clinton and her senior aides declined to speak with the investigators, while the previous four Secretaries of State did so.\n\nThe report also reviewed the practices of several previous Secretaries of State and concluded that the Department's record keeping practices were subpar for many years. The Inspector General criticized Clinton's use of private email for Department business, concluding that it was \"not an appropriate method\" of document preservation and did not follow Department policies that aim to comply with federal record laws. The report also criticized Colin Powell, who used a personal email account for business, saying that this violated some of the same Department policies. State Department spokesman Mark Toner said the report emphasized the need for federal agencies to adapt \"decades-old record-keeping practices to the email-dominated modern era\" and said that the Department's record-retention practices had been improved under the current Secretary of State John F. Kerry, Clinton's successor. The report also notes that the rules for preserving work-related emails were updated in 2009.\n\nInspector General Linick wrote that he \"found no evidence that staff in the Office of the Legal Adviser reviewed or approved Secretary Clinton's personal system,\" and also found that multiple State employees who raised concerns regarding Clinton's server were told that the Office of the Legal Adviser had approved it, and were further told to \"never speak of the Secretary's personal email system again.\"\n\nClinton campaign spokesman Brian Fallon issued a statement saying: \"The report shows that problems with the State Department's electronic record-keeping systems were long-standing\" and that Clinton \"took steps that went much further than others to appropriately preserve and release her records.\" However, the Associated Press said, \"The audit did note that former Secretary of State Colin Powell had also exclusively used a private email account. ... But the failings of Clinton were singled out in the audit as being more serious than her predecessor.\" The report stated that \"By Secretary Clinton's tenure, the department's guidance was considerably more detailed and more sophisticated, Secretary Clinton's cybersecurity practices accordingly must be evaluated in light of these more comprehensive directives.\"\n\nIn 2008, before Hillary Clinton became Secretary of State, Justin Cooper, a longtime aide to Clinton's husband, former President Bill Clinton, managed the system. Cooper had no security clearance nor expertise in computer security. Later, Bryan Pagliano, the former IT director for Clinton's 2008 presidential campaign, was hired to maintain their private email server while Clinton was Secretary of State. Pagliano had invoked the Fifth Amendment during congressional questioning about Clinton's server. In early 2016, he was granted immunity by the Department of Justice in exchange for cooperation with prosecutors. A Clinton spokesman said her campaign was \"pleased\" Pagliano was now cooperating with prosecutors. As of May 2016, the State Department remained unable to locate most of Pagliano's work-related emails from the period when he was employed by that department under Secretary Clinton.\n\nSecurity experts such as Chris Soghoian believe that emails to and from Clinton may have been at risk of hacking and foreign surveillance. Marc Maiffret, a cybersecurity expert, said that the server had \"amateur hour\" vulnerabilities. For the first two months after Clinton was appointed Secretary of State and began accessing mail on the server through her BlackBerry, transmissions to and from the server were apparently not encrypted. On March 29, 2009, a digital certificate was obtained which would have permitted encryption.\n\nFormer Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency Michael T. Flynn, former United States Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, and former deputy director of the Central Intelligence Agency Michael Morell have said that it is likely that foreign governments were able to access the information on Clinton's server. Michael Hayden, former Director of the National Security Agency, Principal Deputy Director of National Intelligence, and Director of the Central Intelligence Agency said \"I would lose all respect for a whole bunch of foreign intelligence agencies if they weren't sitting back, paging through the emails.\"\n\nClinton's server was configured to allow users to connect openly from the Internet and control it remotely using Microsoft's Remote Desktop Services.\n\nIt is known that hackers were aware of Clinton's non-public email address as early as 2011. Secretary Clinton and her staff were aware of hacking attempts in 2011, and were reportedly worried about them.\n\nIn 2012, according to server records, a hacker in Serbia scanned Clinton's Chappaqua server at least twice, in August and in December 2012. It was unclear whether the hacker knew the server belonged to Clinton, although it did identify itself as providing email services for clintonemail.com. During 2014, Clinton's server was the target of repeated intrusions originating in Germany, China, and South Korea. Threat monitoring software on the server blocked at least five such attempts. The software was installed in October 2013, and for three months prior to that, no such software had been installed.\n\nAccording to Pagliano, security logs of Clinton's email server showed no evidence of successful hacking. The \"New York Times\" reported that \"forensic experts can sometimes spot sophisticated hacking that is not apparent in the logs, but computer security experts view logs as key documents when detecting hackers,\" adding the logs \"bolster Mrs. Clinton's assertion that her use of a personal email account ... did not put American secrets into the hands of hackers or foreign governments.\"\n\nIn 2013, Romanian hacker Marcel Lehel Lazăr (aka \"Guccifer\") distributed private memos from Sidney Blumenthal to Clinton on events in Libya. In 2016, Lazăr was extradited from Romania to the U.S. to face unrelated federal charges related to his hacking into the accounts of a number of high-profile U.S. figures, pleading guilty to these charges. While detained pending trial, Lazăr claimed to the media that he had successfully hacked Clinton's server, but provided no proof of this claim. Officials associated with the investigation told the media that they found no evidence supporting Lazăr's assertion, and Clinton press secretary Brian Fallon said \"There is absolutely no basis to believe the claims made by this criminal from his prison cell.\" FBI Director James Comey later stated in a congressional hearing that Guccifer admitted his claim was a lie.\n\nAccording to security researchers at Secureworks the email leak was caused by Threat Group-4127 (TG-4127), a unit that targets governments, military, and international non-governmental organizations. The researchers report moderate confidence that the unit gathers intelligence on behalf of the Russian government.\n\nIn 2014, months prior to public knowledge of the server's existence, Clinton chief of staff Cheryl Mills and two attorneys worked to identify work-related emails on the server to be archived and preserved for the State Department. Upon completion of this task in December 2014, Mills instructed Clinton's computer services provider, Platte River Networks (PRN), to change the server's retention period to 60 days, allowing 31,830 older personal emails to be automatically deleted from the server, as Clinton had decided she no longer needed them. However, the PRN technician assigned for this task failed to carry it out at that time.\n\nAfter the existence of the server became publicly known on March 2, 2015, the Select Committee on Benghazi issued a subpoena for Benghazi-related emails two days later. Mills sent an email to PRN on March 9 mentioning the Committee's retention request. The PRN technician then had what he described to the FBI as an \"oh shit moment,\" realizing he had not set the personal emails to be deleted as instructed months earlier. The technician then erased the emails using a free utility, BleachBit, sometime between March 25 and March 31.\n\nSince this episode, Clinton critics have accused her or her aides of deleting emails that were under subpoena, alleging the server had been \"bleached\" or \"acid-washed\" by a \"very expensive\" process in an effort to destroy evidence, with candidate Donald Trump stating the day before the 2016 election that \"Hillary Clinton erased more than 30,000 emails as part of a cover-up.\" Trump continued with this narrative as late as August 2018, asking \"Look at the crimes that Clinton did with the emails and she deletes 33,000 emails after she gets a subpoena from Congress, and this Justice Department does nothing about it?\"\n\nIn various interviews, Clinton has said that \"I did not send classified material, and I did not receive any material that was marked or designated classified.\" However, in June and July 2016, a number of news outlets reported that Clinton's emails did include messages with some paragraphs marked with a \"(c)\" for \"Confidential.\"\nThe FBI investigation found that 110 messages contained information that was classified at the time it was sent. Sixty-five of those emails were found to contain information classified as \"Secret;\" more than 20 contained \"Top-Secret\" information. Three emails, out of 30,000, were found to be marked as classified, although they lacked classified headers and were only marked with a small \"c\" in parentheses, described as \"portion markings\" by Comey. He added it was possible Clinton was not \"technically sophisticated\" enough to understand what the three classified markings meant which is consistent with Clinton's claim that she wasn't aware of the meaning of such markings.\n\nClinton personally wrote 104 of the 2,093 emails that were retroactively found to contain information classified as \"confidential.\" Of the remaining emails that were classified after they were sent, Clinton aide Jake Sullivan wrote the most, at 215.\n\nAccording to the State Department, there were 2,093 email chains on the server that were retroactively marked as classified by the State Department as \"Confidential,\" 65 as \"Secret,\" and 22 as \"Top Secret.\" TG-4127 accessed Hillary for America Campaign Gmail accounts through spoofed login pages. Victims thought they were standard pages and hackers were able to access their email account.\n\nA June 29, 2015, memorandum from the Inspector General of the State Department, Steve A. Linick, said that a review of the 55,000-page email release found \"hundreds of potentially classified emails.\" A July 17, 2015, follow-up memo, sent jointly by Linick and the Intelligence Community (IC) inspector general, I. Charles McCullough III, to Under Secretary of State for Management Patrick F. Kennedy, stated that they had confirmed that several of the emails contained classified information that was not marked as classified, at least one of which was publicly released.\n\nOn July 24, 2015, Linick and McCullough said they had discovered classified information on Clinton's email account, but did not say whether Clinton sent or received the emails. Investigators from their office, searching a randomly chosen sample of 40 emails, found four that contained classified information that originated from U.S. intelligence agencies, including the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and the National Security Agency (NSA). Their statement said that the information they found was classified when sent, remained so as of their inspection, and \"never should have been transmitted via an unclassified personal system.\"\n\nIn a separate statement in the form of a letter to Congress, McCullough said that he had made a request to the State Department for access to the entire set of emails turned over by Clinton, but that the Department rejected his request. The letter stated that none of the emails were marked as classified, but because they included classified information they should have been marked and handled as such, and transmitted securely.\n\nOn August 10, 2015, the IC inspector general said that two of the 40 emails in the sample were \"Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information\" and subsequently given classified labels of \"TK\" (for \"Talent Keyhole,\" indicating material obtained by aerial or space-based imagery sources and NOFORN). One is a discussion of a news article about a U.S. drone strike operation. The second, he said, either referred to classified material or else was \"parallel reporting\" of open-source intelligence, which might still be classified by the government \"owning agency\" that sourced the information by secret means even though the same information was also available in the public domain. Clinton's presidential campaign and the State Department disputed the letter, and questioned whether the emails had been over-classified by an arbitrary process. According to an unnamed source, a secondary review by the CIA and the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency endorsed the earlier inspectors general findings concluding that the emails (one of which concerned North Korea's nuclear weapons program) were \"Top Secret\" when received by Clinton through her private server in 2009 and 2011, a conclusion also disputed by the Clinton campaign.\n\nThe IC inspector general issued another letter to Congress on January 14, 2016. In this letter he stated that an unnamed intelligence agency had made a sworn declaration that \"several dozen emails [had been] determined by the IC element to be at the CONFIDENTIAL, SECRET, and TOP SECRET/SAP levels.\" Other intelligence officials added that the several dozen were not the two emails from the previous sample and that the clearance of the IC inspector general himself had to be upgraded before he could learn about the programs referenced by the emails. NBC News reported on January 20, 2016 that senior American officials described these emails as \"innocuous\" because—although they discussed the CIA drone program that is technically classified TOP SECRET/SAP—the existence of the CIA drone program had been widely known and discussed in the public domain for years. These officials characterized the IC inspector general as unfair in how he had handled the issue.\n\nOn January 29, 2016, the State Department announced that 22 documents from Clinton's email server would not be released because they contained highly classified information that was too sensitive for public consumption. At the same time, the State Department announced that it was initiating its own investigation into whether the server contained information that was classified at the time it was sent or received.\n\nIn February 2016, State Department IG Linick addressed another report to Under Secretary of State Kennedy, stating his office had also found classified material in 10 emails in the personal email accounts of members of former Secretary Condoleezza Rice's staff and in two emails in the personal email account of former Secretary of State Colin Powell. None of the emails were classified for intelligence reasons. PolitiFact found a year earlier that Powell was the only former secretary of state to use a personal email account. In February 2016, Clinton's campaign chairman issued a statement claiming that her emails, like her predecessors,' were \"being inappropriately subjected to over-classification.\"\n\nThe State Department and Intelligence Community (IC) inspector generals' discovery of four emails containing classified information, out of a random sample of 40, prompted them to make a security referral to the FBI's counterintelligence office, to alert authorities that classified information was being kept on Clinton's server and by her lawyer on a thumb drive. As part of an FBI probe at the request of the IC inspector general, Clinton agreed to turn over her email server to the U.S. Department of Justice, as well as thumb drives containing copies of her work-related emails. Other emails were obtained by the United States House Select Committee on Benghazi from other sources, in connection with the committee's inquiry. Clinton's own emails are being made public in stages by the State Department on a gradual schedule.\n\n\"The New York Times\" ran a front-page story on July 24, 2015 with the headline \"Criminal Inquiry Sought In Clinton's Use of Email,\" with the lead sentence stating, \"Two inspectors general have asked the Justice Department to open a criminal investigation into whether Hillary Rodham Clinton mishandled sensitive government information on a private email account she used as secretary of state, senior government officials said Thursday.\" Shortly after the publication of the story, the Inspectors General of the Intelligence Community and the\nDepartment of State issued a statement clarifying, \"An important distinction is that the IC IG did not make a criminal referral - it was a security referral made for counterintelligence purposes.\" The \"Times\" later made two corrections, first that Clinton was not a specific target of the referral, then later that the referral was not \"criminal\" in nature.\n\nClinton's IT contractors turned over her personal email server to the FBI on August 12, 2015, as well as thumb drives containing copies of her emails.\n\nIn a letter describing the matter to Senator Ron Johnson, Chairman of the Senate Homeland Security Committee, Clinton's lawyer David E. Kendall said that emails, and all other data stored on the server, had earlier been erased prior to the device being turned over to the authorities, and that both he and another lawyer had been given security clearances by the State Department to handle thumb drives containing about 30,000 emails that Clinton subsequently also turned over to authorities. Kendall said the thumb drives had been stored in a safe provided to him in July by the State Department.\n\nOn August 20, 2015, U.S. District Judge Emmet G. Sullivan stated that Hillary Clinton's actions of maintaining a private email server were in direct conflict with U.S. government policy. \"We wouldn't be here today if this employee had followed government policy,\" he said, and ordered the State Department to work with the FBI to determine if any emails on the server during her tenure as Secretary of State could be recovered.\n\nPlatte River Networks, the Denver-based firm that managed the Clinton server since 2013, said it had no knowledge of the server being wiped. \"Platte River has no knowledge of the server being wiped,\" company spokesman Andy Boian told the \"Washington Post\". \"All the information we have is that the server wasn't wiped.\" When asked by the \"Washington Post\", the Clinton campaign declined to comment.\n\nIn September 2015, FBI investigators were engaged in sorting messages recovered from the server. In November 2015, the FBI expanded its inquiry to examine whether Clinton or her aides jeopardized national security secrets, and if so, who should be held responsible.\n\nConflicting media sources sized the FBI investigation from 12 to 30 agents as of March 2016.\n\nIn May 2016, FBI Director James Comey said he was \"not familiar with the term 'security inquiry'\" as the Clinton campaign was characterizing the probe, adding that the word \"investigation\" is \"in our name\" and \"We're conducting an investigation ... That's what we do. That's probably all I can say about it.\" Comey noted in his 2018 memoir that he did not publicly contradict Clinton's characterization of the investigation as a \"security inquiry\" while it was underway despite being directly prompted by a reporter to do so in May 2016. In April 2017 it became known that the FBI had, in fact, opened a criminal investigation on July 10, 2015, telling \"The New York Times\" they had received a \"criminal referral,\" although the following day they issued a public statement: \"The department has received a referral related to the potential compromise of classified information. It is not a criminal referral.\"\nIn late June 2016, it was reported that Bill Clinton met privately with Attorney General Loretta Lynch on her private plane on the tarmac at Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport. Officials indicated that the 30 minute meeting took place when Clinton became aware that Lynch's plane was on the same tarmac at the airport. When the meeting became public, Lynch stated that it was \"primarily social\" and \"there was no discussion of any matter pending for the department or any matter pending for any other body.\" Lynch was criticized for her involvement in the meeting and was called on by some critics to recuse herself from involvement in the FBI's investigation of the email case. In response, she stated \"The F.B.I. is investigating whether Mrs. Clinton, her aides or anyone else broke the law by setting up a private email server for her to use as secretary of state,\" but \"the case will be resolved by the same team that has been working on it from the beginning\" and \"I will be accepting their recommendations.\"\nOn July 1, 2016, the \"New York Times\" reported in the name of a \"Justice Department official\" that Attorney General Loretta Lynch will accept \"whatever recommendation career prosecutors and the F.B.I. director make about whether to bring charges related to Hillary Clinton's personal email server.\"\n\nClinton maintained she did not send or receive any confidential emails from her personal server. In a Democratic debate with Bernie Sanders on February 4, 2016, Clinton said, \"I never sent or received any classified material.\" In a Meet the Press interview on July 2, 2016, she stated: \"Let me repeat what I have repeated for many months now, I never received nor sent any material that was marked classified.\"\n\nOn July 5, 2016, FBI Director Comey announced in a statement he read to press and television reporters at FBI headquarters in Washington, DC, that the FBI had completed its investigation and was referring it to the State Department with the recommendation \"that no charges are appropriate in this case.\" He added, \"Although there is evidence of potential violations of the statutes regarding the handling of classified information, our judgment is that no reasonable prosecutor would bring such a case.\"\n\nWith regard to mishandling of classified information, Comey said, \"there is evidence that they [Clinton and her team] were extremely careless in their handling of very sensitive, highly classified information.\" The investigation found 110 emails that should have been regarded as classified at the time they were sent; another 2,000 emails were retroactively classified which means they were not classified at the time they were sent. Comey said that \"any reasonable person in Secretary Clinton's position, or in the position of those government employees with whom she was corresponding ... should have known that an unclassified system was no place for that conversation.\"\n\nThe FBI learned that Clinton used her personal email extensively while outside the United States, both sending and receiving work-related emails in the territory of sophisticated adversaries. The FBI did not find \"direct evidence that Secretary Clinton's personal e-mail domain ... was successfully hacked;\" they assessed it \"possible that hostile actors gained access\" to it. Investigators found that State Department employees often used private emails to conduct business. Comey noted, \"We also developed evidence that the security culture of the State Department in general, and with respect to use of unclassified e-mail systems in particular, was generally lacking in the kind of care for classified information found elsewhere in the government.\"\n\nOn July 6, 2016, Lynch confirmed that the investigation into Hillary Clinton's use of private email servers while secretary of state would be closed without criminal charges.\n\nIn early October 2016, FBI criminal investigators working on a case involving former Congressman Anthony Weiner allegedly sending sexually explicit texts to a fifteen-year-old girl discovered emails from Weiner's estranged wife, Huma Abedin, vice chair of Hillary Clinton's 2016 presidential campaign, that they considered potentially relevant to the Clinton server investigation. FBI officials reportedly decided to disclose the development despite its potential effect on the pending presidential election to preempt the possibility that it would be leaked in another way.\n\nOn October 28, 2016, Comey informed Congress that \"in connection with an unrelated case, the FBI has learned of the existence of emails that appear pertinent to the investigation.\" He said the FBI will take \"appropriate investigative steps designed to allow investigators to review these emails to determine whether they contain classified information, as well as to assess their importance to our investigation.\" He added that the FBI \"cannot yet assess whether or not this material may be significant.\" The FBI obtained a new search warrant to allow them to review Abedin's emails.\n\nComey informed Congress of this additional investigation despite having been advised by Justice Department officials that such an announcement would violate department policies and procedures, including a policy not to comment on investigations close to an election. Comey later explained, in a letter to FBI employees, \"We don't ordinarily tell Congress about ongoing investigations, but here I feel an obligation to do so given that I testified repeatedly in recent months that our investigation was completed.\" Law enforcement sources added that he feared he would be accused of concealing relevant information if he did not disclose it.\n\nNews of this renewed investigation being revealed shortly before the U.S. presidential election led to the announcement being described as an \"October surprise,\" and prompted statements from both the Democratic and Republican campaigns. Donald Trump repeated his characterization that Hillary Clinton's email usage as secretary of state was \"worse than Watergate.\" Clinton called for the FBI to immediately release all information about the newly discovered emails and said she was confident the FBI would not change its earlier conclusion that there is no basis for criminal prosecution. Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) said she was \"shocked\" by the letter, saying it \"played right into the political campaign of Donald Trump.\"\n\nOn November 6, in another letter to Congress, Comey stated that, after working \"around the clock\" to review all of the newly discovered emails, the FBI had not changed the conclusion it reached in July. An unnamed government official added that the newly discovered emails turned out to be either personal or duplicates of emails previously reviewed, and that Comey's letter represents a conclusion of the investigation. The following day, stock and currency markets around the world surged in response.\n\nOn November 12, during a conference call to top donors, Hillary Clinton attributed her presidential election loss to Comey's announcements, saying they stopped her momentum. In January 2017, the US Justice Department started an investigation of Comey's announcements.\n\nAccording to Comey's June 8, 2017, testimony to the Senate Intelligence Committee, then-Attorney General Loretta Lynch had asked him to downplay the investigation into Clinton's emails by calling it a \"matter\" rather than an investigation. He said the request \"confused and concerned\" him. He added that Lynch's tarmac meeting with Bill Clinton also influenced his decision to publicly announce the results of the FBI probe.\n\nOn June 23, 2017, several members of the Senate Judiciary Committee opened a bipartisan inquiry into whether former Attorney General Lynch interfered in the FBI's investigation into Hillary Clinton's use of a private email server.\n\nOn July 7, 2016, the internal State Department resumed its review of whether classified information had been mishandled. The review had been suspended until the completion of the Justice Department investigation.\n\nThe Inspector General of the Department of Justice (IG) launched an investigation into how the DOJ and FBI had handled the investigation into Clinton's email. On June 14, 2018, the IG issued a report that was highly critical of Comey's actions. Regarding his July press conference, in which he criticized Clinton even while announcing the investigation was over, the IG said it was \"extraordinary and insubordinate for Comey to conceal his intentions (about the press conference) from his superiors,\" and that \"we found none of his reasons to be a persuasive basis for deviating from well-established Department policies.\" Comey's October decision to send a letter notifying Congress that the investigation had been re-opened one week before the election was described as \"ad-hoc\" and \"a serious error in judgment.\" However, the IG concluded that prosecutorial decisions in the Clinton case were consistent with precedent and were not affected by bias.\n\nAccording to the \"New York Times\", if Clinton was a recipient of classified emails, \"it is not clear that she would have known that they contained government secrets, since they were not marked classified.\" The newspaper reported that \"most specialists believe the occasional appearance of classified information in the Clinton account was probably of marginal consequence\". Steven Aftergood, director of the Project on Government Secrecy at the Federation of American Scientists, said that inadvertent \"spillage\" of classified information into an unclassified realm is a common occurrence.\n\nReuters' August 2015 review of a set of released emails found \"at least 30 email threads from 2009, representing scores of individual emails,\" which include what the State Department identifies as \"foreign government information,\" defined by the U.S. government as \"any information, written or spoken, provided in confidence to U.S. officials by their foreign counterparts.\" Although unmarked, Reuters' examination appeared to suggest that these emails \"were classified from the start.\" J. William Leonard, a former director of the NARA Information Security Oversight Office, said that such information is \"born classified\" and that \"[I]f a foreign minister just told the secretary of state something in confidence, by U.S. rules that is classified at the moment it's in U.S. channels and U.S. possession.\" According to Reuters, the standard U.S. government nondisclosure agreement \"warns people authorized to handle classified information that it may not be marked that way and that it may come in oral form.\" The State Department \"disputed Reuters' analysis\" but declined to elaborate.\n\nThe Associated Press reported, \"Some officials said they believed the designations were a stretch—a knee-jerk move in a bureaucracy rife with over-classification.\" Jeffrey Toobin, in an August 2015 \"New Yorker\" article, wrote that the Clinton email affair is an illustration of overclassification, a problem written about by Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan in his book \"Secrecy: The American Experience\". Toobin writes that \"government bureaucracies use classification rules to protect turf, to avoid embarrassment, to embarrass rivals—in short, for a variety of motives that have little to do with national security.\" Toobin wrote that \"It's not only the public who cannot know the extent or content of government secrecy. Realistically, government officials can't know either—and this is Hillary Clinton's problem. Toobin noted that \"one of Clinton's potentially classified email exchanges is nothing more than a discussion of a newspaper story about drones\" and wrote: \"That such a discussion could be classified underlines the absurdity of the current system. But that is the system that exists, and if and when the agencies determine that she sent or received classified information through her private server, Clinton will be accused of mishandling national-security secrets.\"\n\nIn an analysis of the Clinton email controversy published by the Brookings Institution, Richard Lempert wrote that \"security professionals have a reputation for erring in the direction of overclassification.\" Elizabeth Goitein, co-director of the liberty and national security program at the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University School of Law, says that \"The odds are good that any classified information in the Clinton emails should not have been classified,\" since an estimated 50 percent to 90 percent of classified documents could be made public without risking national security. Nate Jones, an expert with the National Security Archive at George Washington University, said: \"Clinton's mistreatment of federal records and the intelligence community's desire to retroactively overclassify are two distinct troubling problems. No politician is giving the right message: Blame Clinton for poor records practices, but don't embrace overclassification while you do it.\"\n\nOn July 7, 2016, Comey was questioned for 5 hours by the United States House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. Comey stated that there was \"evidence of mishandling\" of classified information and that he believed that Clinton was \"extremely careless; I think she was negligent.\" He defended the FBI's recommendation against bringing charges because it \"... would have been unfair and virtually unprecedented ...\"\n\nClinton's spokesman Nick Merrill defended Clinton's usage of her personal server and email accounts as being \"in compliance with the \"letter and spirit of the rules.\"\"\n\nClinton herself stated she had done so as a matter of \"convenience.\"\n\nOn March 10, 2015, while attending a conference at the headquarters of the United Nations in Manhattan, Clinton spoke with reporters for about 20 minutes. Clinton said she had used a private email for convenience, \"because I thought it would be easier to carry just one device for my work and for my personal emails instead of two.\"\nIt was later determined that Clinton had used both an iPad and a BlackBerry while Secretary of State.\n\nClinton turned over copies of 30,000 State Department business-related emails from her private server that belonged in the public domain; she later explained that she instructed her lawyer to err on the side of disclosure, turning over any emails that \"might\" be work-related. Her aides subsequently deleted about 31,000 emails from the server dated during the same time period that Clinton regarded as personal and private. State Department employees do have the right to delete personal emails.\n\nClinton has used humor to try to shrug off the scandals. In August 2015, when asked by a reporter whether she had \"wiped\" her server, Clinton laughed and said: \"What? Like with a cloth or something? I don't know how it works digitally at all.\" In September 2015, Clinton was asked in an interview with Jimmy Fallon on \"The Tonight Show\" about the content of the emails. She laughed it off, saying there was nothing interesting and joking that she was offended people found her emails 'boring.'\n\nClinton's responses to the question, made during her presidential campaign, evolved over time. Clinton initially said that there was no classified material on her server. Later, after a government review discovered some of her emails contained classified information, she said she never sent or received information that was \"marked\" classified. Her campaign claimed other emails contained information that is now classified, but was \"retroactively\" classified by U.S. intelligence agencies after Clinton had received the material. See also the section above on the May 2016 IG report for a number of Clinton statements that were contradicted by the report, and how she and her supporters responded afterward.\n\nCampaign spokesman Brian Fallon said: \"She was at worst a passive recipient of unwitting information that subsequently became deemed as classified.\" Clinton campaign spokeswoman Jennifer Palmieri has \"stressed that Clinton was permitted to use her own email account as a government employee and that the same process concerning classification reviews would still be taking place had she used the standard 'state.gov' email account used by most department employees.\" Palmieri later stated: \"Look, this kind of nonsense comes with the territory of running for president. We know it, Hillary knows it, and we expect it to continue from now until Election Day.\"\n\nIn her first national interview about the 2016 presidential race, on July 7, 2015, Clinton was asked by CNN's Brianna Keilar about her use of private email accounts while serving as Secretary of State. She said:\n\nOn September 9, 2015, Clinton apologized during an ABC News interview for using the private server, saying she was \"sorry for that.\" Appearing on NBC's \"Meet the Press\" on September 27, 2015, Clinton defended her use of the private email server while she was secretary of state, comparing the investigations to Republican-led probes of her husband's presidential administration more than two decades ago, saying, \"It is like a drip, drip, drip. And that's why I said, there's only so much that I can control.\"\n\nClinton and the State Department said the emails were not marked classified when sent. However, Clinton signed a non-disclosure agreement which stated that classified material may be \"marked or unmarked.\" Additionally, the author of an email is legally required to properly mark it as classified if it contains classified material, and to avoid sending classified material on a personal device, such as the ones used exclusively by Clinton.\n\nClinton maintained that she did not send or receive any confidential emails from her personal server. In a Democratic debate with Bernie Sanders on February 4, 2016, Clinton said, \"I never sent or received any classified material.\" In a Meet the Press interview on July 2, 2016, Clinton stated: \"Let me repeat what I have repeated for many months now, I never received nor sent any material that was marked classified.\"\n\nIn an interview with Fox News in late July 2016, Clinton stated \"Director Comey said my answers were truthful, and what I've said is consistent with what I have told the American people, that there were decisions discussed and made to classify retroactively certain of the emails.\" The Washington Post awarded Clinton four \"Pinocchios\", its worst rating, for her statement saying \"While Comey did say there was no evidence she lied to the FBI, that is not the same as saying she told the truth to the American public.\"\n\nIn August 2015, the \"New York Times\" reported on \"interviews with more than 75 Democratic governors, lawmakers, candidates and party members\" on the email issue. The \"Times\" reported, \"None of the Democrats interviewed went so far as to suggest that the email issue raised concerns about Mrs. Clinton's ability to serve as president, and many expressed a belief that it had been manufactured by Republicans in Congress and other adversaries.\" At the same time, many Democratic leaders showed increasing frustration among party leaders of Clinton's handling of the email issue. For example, Edward G. Rendell, former governor of Pennsylvania, a Clinton supporter, said that a failure of the Clinton campaign to get ahead of the issue early on meant that the campaign was \"left just playing defense.\" Other prominent Democrats, such as Governor Dannel P. Malloy of Connecticut, were less concerned, noting the campaign was at an early stage and that attacks on Clinton were to be expected.\n\nAt the October 2015 primary debate, Clinton's chief rival for the Democratic presidential nomination, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, defended Clinton, saying: \"Let me say this. Let me say something that may not be great politics. But I think the secretary is right. And that is that the American people are sick and tired of hearing about your damn emails!\" Sanders later clarified that he thought Clinton's emails were a \"very serious issue,\" but Americans want a discussion on issues that are \"real\" to them, such as paid family and medical leave, college affordability, and campaign finance reform.\n\n\"But her emails!\" became a meme during and following the 2016 election, often used in a joking or mocking way. Clinton herself echoed the phrase in June 2018, when the Justice Department's Inspector General issued a report on how the investigation of her use of email was conducted. It revealed that FBI Director Comey had used a personal email account to conduct FBI business; Clinton's response was a Twitter comment, \"But my emails!\"\n\nRepublican National Committee chairman Reince Priebus said, in a statement regarding the June 30, 2015 email releases, \"These emails ... are just the tip of the iceberg, and we will never get full disclosure until Hillary Clinton releases her secret server for an independent investigation.\" Trey Gowdy said on June 29, 2015, that he would press the State Department for a fuller accounting of Clinton's emails, after the Benghazi panel retrieved 15 additional emails to Sidney Blumenthal that the department had not provided to the Committee.\n\nOn September 12, 2015, Republican Senators Charles Grassley and Ron Johnson, chairmen of the Senate Judiciary and Homeland Security committees, respectively, said they would seek an independent review of the deleted emails, if they were recovered from Clinton's server, to determine if there were any government related items among those deleted.\n\nAnalyses by Columbia Journalism Review, the Berkman Klein Center for Internet and Society at Harvard University, and the Shorenstein Center at the Harvard Kennedy School show that the Clinton email controversy received more coverage in mainstream media outlets than any other topic during the 2016 presidential election. The \"New York Times\" coverage of the email controversy was notoriously extensive; according to a Columbia Journalism Review analysis, \"\"in just six days, \"The New York Times\" ran as many cover stories about Hillary Clinton's emails as they did about all policy issues combined in the 69 days leading up to the election\" (and that does not include the three additional articles on October 18, and November 6 and 7, or the two articles on the emails taken from John Podesta).\" In attempting to explain the lopsided coverage, the Columbia Journalism Review speculates, \"In retrospect, it seems clear that the press in general made the mistake of assuming a Clinton victory was inevitable, and were setting themselves as credible critics of the next administration.\"\n\nMedia commentators drew comparisons of Clinton's email usage to past political controversies. \"Pacific Standard Magazine\" published an article in May 2015, comparing email controversy and her response to it with the Whitewater investigation 20 years earlier.\n\nIn August 2015, \"Washington Post\" associate editor and investigative journalist Bob Woodward, when asked about Clinton's handling of her emails, said they remind him of the Nixon tapes from the Watergate scandal. On March 9, 2015, liberal columnist and Clinton supporter Dana Milbank wrote that the email affair was \"a needless, self-inflicted wound\" brought about by \"debilitating caution\" in \"trying to make sure an embarrassing e-mail or two didn't become public,\" which led to \"obsessive secrecy.\" Milbank pointed out that Clinton herself had justifiably criticized the George W. Bush administration in 2007 for its \"secret\" White House email accounts.\n\nOn \"Fox News Sunday\", political analyst Juan Williams contrasted the media coverage of Clinton's emails to the coverage of the 2007 Bush White House email controversy which he claimed received \"just about zero press coverage.\" PolitiFact found Williams' assertion to be \"mostly false,\" concluding \"We found hundreds of articles and television transcripts referencing the issue. Still, Williams has something of a point that compared to the extensive recent coverage of Clinton's use of private email, media coverage of the 2007 Bush White House email controversy was thin.\"\n\nThe \"Milwaukee Journal Sentinel\" published an editorial opining that \"the only believable reason for the private server in her basement was to keep her emails out of the public eye by willfully avoiding freedom of information laws. No president, no secretary of state, no public official at any level is above the law. She chose to ignore it, and must face the consequences.\" Pascal-Emmanuel Gobry wrote in \"The Week\" that \"Clinton set up a personal email server, in defiance or at least circumvention of rules, with the probable motive of evading federal records and transparency requirements, and did it with subpar security.\"\n\nOn November 2, 2016, Fox News anchor Bret Baier reported that according to Fox's anonymous sources the FBI had discovered that Clinton's private server had been hacked by \"five foreign intelligence agencies.\" Baier further reported that according to an anonymous source an FBI investigation of the Clinton Foundation was \"likely\" to lead to an indictment of Hillary Clinton. On November 4, 2016, he acknowledged that his assertions were a mistake, saying, \"indictment obviously is a very loaded word,\" and that he was sorry.\n\nOn March 27, 2015, Republican Congressman Trey Gowdy, Chairman of the Select Committee on Benghazi, asserted that some time after October 2014, Clinton \"unilaterally decided to wipe her server clean\" and \"summarily decided to delete all emails.\" Clinton's attorney, David E. Kendall, said that day that an examination showed that no copies of any of Clinton's emails remained on the server. Kendall said the server was reconfigured to only retain emails for 60 days after Clinton lawyers had decided which emails needed to be turned over.\n\nOn June 22, 2015, the Benghazi panel released emails between Clinton and Sidney Blumenthal, who had been recently deposed by the committee. Committee chairman Gowdy issued a press release criticizing Clinton for not providing the emails to the State Department. Clinton had said she provided all work-related emails to the State Department, and that only emails of a personal nature on her private server were destroyed. The State Department confirmed that 10 emails and parts of five others from Sidney Blumenthal regarding Benghazi, which the Committee had made public on June 22, could not be located in the Department's records, but that the 46 other, previously unreleased Libya-related Blumenthal emails published by the Committee, were in the Department's records. In response, Clinton campaign spokesman Nick Merrill, when asked about the discrepancy said: \"She has turned over 55,000 pages of materials to the State Department, including all emails in her possession from Mr. Blumenthal.\" Republican Committee members were encouraged about their probe, having found emails that Clinton failed to produce. Clinton campaign staff accused Gowdy and Republicans of \"clinging to their invented scandal.\"\n\nIn response to comments that House Republican Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy made on September 29, 2015, about damaging Clinton's poll numbers, Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi threatened to end the Democrats' participation in the committee. Representative Louise Slaughter (D-NY) introduced an amendment to disband the committee, which was defeated in a party-line vote. On October 7, the editorial board of \"The New York Times\" called for the end of the committee. Representative Alan Grayson (D-FL) took step towards filing an ethics complaint, calling the committee \"the new McCarthyism\", alleging it was violating both House rules and federal law by using official funds for political purposes. Richard L. Hanna, (R-NY), and conservative pundit Bill O'Reilly acknowledged the partisan nature of the committee.\n\nOn October 22, 2015, Clinton testified before the Committee and answered members' questions for eleven hours before the Committee in a public hearing.\n\n\"The New York Times\" reported that \"the long day of often-testy exchanges between committee members and their prominent witness revealed little new information about an episode that has been the subject of seven previous investigations ... Perhaps stung by recent admissions that the pursuit of Mrs. Clinton's emails was politically motivated, Republican lawmakers on the panel for the most part avoided any mention of her use of a private email server.\" The email issue did arise shortly before lunch, in \"a shouting match\" between Republican committee chair Trey Gowdy and two Democrats, Adam Schiff and Elijah Cummings. Late in the hearing, Republican Representative Jim Jordan of Ohio accused Clinton of changing her accounts of the email service, leading to a \"heated exchange\" in which Clinton said that she had erred in making a private email account, but denied having dealt with anything marked classified, instead seeking \"to be transparent by publicly releasing her emails.\"\n\nJudicial Watch, a conservative activist group, filed a complaint against the Department of State in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia on September 10, 2013, seeking records under the federal Freedom of Information Act relating to Clinton aide Huma Abedin (a former deputy chief of staff and former senior advisor at the State Department). Judicial Watch was particularly interested in Abedin's role as a \"special government employee\" (SGE), a consulting position which allowed her to represent outside clients while also serving at the State Department. After corresponding with the State Department, Judicial Watch agreed to dismiss its lawsuit on March 14, 2014. On March 12, 2015, in response to the uncovering of Clinton's private email account, it filed a motion to reopen the suit, alleging that the State Department had misrepresented its search and had not properly preserved and maintained records under the act. U.S. District Judge Emmet G. Sullivan granted the motion to reopen the case on June 19, 2015.\n\nOn July 21, 2015, Judge Sullivan issued supplemental discovery orders, including one that Clinton, Abedin, and former Deputy Secretary of State Cheryl Mills disclose any required information they had not disclosed already, and promise under oath that they had done so, including a description of the extent Abedin and Mills had used Clinton's email server for official government business.\n\nOn August 10, 2015, Clinton filed her declaration, stating \"I have directed that all my emails on clintonemail.com in my custody that were or potentially were federal records be provided to the Department of State,\" and that as a result of this directive, 55,000 pages of emails were produced to the Department on December 5, 2014. She said in her statement that Abedin did have an email account through clintonemail.com that \"was used at times for government business,\" but that Mills did not. The statement was filed as Clinton faced questions over fifteen emails in exchanges with Blumenthal that were not among the emails she gave to the department the previous year. She did not address the matter of those emails in the statement. On September 25, 2015, several additional emails from her private server surfaced which she had not provided to the State Department. These emails between Clinton and General David Petraeus, discussing personnel matters, were part of an email chain that started on a different email account before her tenure as Secretary of State, but continued onto her private server in late January 2009 after she had taken office. The existence of these emails also called into question Clinton's previous statement that she did not use the server before March 18, 2009.\n\nIn February 2016, Judge Sullivan issued a discovery order in the case, ruling that depositions of State Department officials and top Clinton aides were to proceed. On May 26, 2016, Judicial Watch released the transcript of the deposition of Lewis Lukens, on May 31, 2016, the transcript of Cheryl Mills, on June 7, 2016, the transcript of Ambassador Stephen Mull, and on June 9, 2016, Karin Lang, Director of Executive Secretariat Staff.\n\nThe testimony of Clarence Finney, who worked in the department responsible for FOIA searches, said that he first became curious about Clinton's email setup after seeing the Texts from Hillary meme on the Internet.\n\nIn November 2014, Jason Leopold of \"Vice News\" made a Freedom of Information Act request for Clinton's State Department records, and, on January 25, 2015, filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia seeking to compel production of responsive documents. After some dispute between Leopold and the State Department over the request, U.S. District Judge Rudolph Contreras ordered rolling production and release of the emails on a schedule set by the State Department.\n\nOver the next several months, the State Department completed production of 30,068 emails, which were released in 14 batches, with the final batch released on February 29, 2016. Both the \"Wall Street Journal\" and WikiLeaks independently set up search engines for anyone who would like to search through the Clinton emails released by the State Department.\n\nIt was revealed in October 2017 that during the 2016 US Presidential election, Cambridge Analytica funder and GOP mega-donor Rebekah Mercer had proposed creating a searchable data base for Hillary Clinton emails in the public domain and then forwarded this suggestion to several people, including Cambridge Analytica CEO Alexander Nix, who personally emailed a request to Julian Assange for Clinton's emails. Assange responded to the report by saying he denied Nix's request.\n\nThe emails showed that Blumenthal communicated with Clinton while Secretary on a variety of issues including Benghazi.\n\nOn March 11, 2015, the day after Clinton acknowledged her private email account, the Associated Press (AP) filed suit against the State Department regarding multiple FOIA requests over the past five years. The requests were for various emails and other documents from Clinton's time as secretary of state and were still unfulfilled at the time. The State Department said that a high volume of FOIA requests and a large backlog had caused the delay.\n\nOn July 20, 2015, U.S. District Judge Richard J. Leon reacted angrily to what he said was \"the State Department for four years dragging their feet.\" Leon said that \"even the least ambitious bureaucrat\" could process the request faster than the State Department was doing.\n\nOn August 7, 2015, Leon issued an order setting a stringent schedule for the State Department to provide the AP with the requested documents over the next eight months. The order issued by Leon did not include the 55,000 pages of Clinton emails the State Department scheduled to be released in the Leopold case, or take into account 20 boxes given to the State Department by Philippe Reines, a former Clinton senior adviser.\n\nIn September 2015, the State Department filed a motion in court seeking to consolidate and coordinate the large number of Freedom of Information Act lawsuits relating to Clinton and Clinton-related emails. There were at the time at least three dozen lawsuits pending, before 17 different judges.\n\nIn a U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia order issued on October 8, 2015, Chief U.S. District Judge Richard W. Roberts wrote that the cases did not meet the usual criteria for consolidation but: \"The judges who have been randomly assigned to these cases have been and continue to be committed to informal coordination so as to avoid unnecessary inefficiencies and confusion, and the parties are also urged to meet and confer to assist in coordination.\"\n\nIn 2015, Judicial Watch and the Cause of Action Institute filed two lawsuits seeking a court order to compel the Department of State and the National Archives and Records Administration to recover emails from Clinton's server. In January 2016, these two suits (which were consolidated because they involved the same issues) were dismissed as moot by U.S. District Judge James Boasberg, because the government was already working to recover and preserve these emails.\n\nIn March 2016, the Republican National Committee filed four new complaints in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia stemming from Freedom of Information Act requests it had filed the previous year. These new filings brought the total number of civil suits over access to Clinton's records pending in federal court to at least 38.\n\nIn June 2016, in response to the Republican National Committee's complaints filed in March 2016, the State Department estimates it will take 75 years to complete the review of documents which are responsive to the complaints. It has been observed that a delay of this nature would cause the documents to remain out of public view longer than the vast majority of classified documents which must be declassified after 25 years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "639628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=639628", "title": "Human Rights Act 1998", "text": "Human Rights Act 1998\n\nThe Human Rights Act 1998 (c42) is an Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom which received Royal Assent on 9 November 1998, and mostly came into force on 2 October 2000. Its aim was to incorporate into UK law the rights contained in the European Convention on Human Rights. The Act makes a remedy for breach of a Convention right available in UK courts, without the need to go to the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) in Strasbourg.\n\nIn particular, the Act makes it unlawful for any public body to act in a way which is incompatible with the Convention, unless the wording of any other primary legislation provides no other choice. It also requires the judiciary (including tribunals) to take account of any decisions, judgment or opinion of the European Court of Human Rights, and to interpret legislation, as far as possible, in a way which is compatible with Convention rights. However, if it is not possible to interpret an Act of Parliament so as to make it compatible with the Convention, the judges are not allowed to override it. All they can do is issue a declaration of incompatibility. This declaration does not affect the validity of the Act of Parliament: in that way, the Human Rights Act seeks to maintain the principle of Parliamentary sovereignty (see: Constitution of the United Kingdom). However, judges may strike down secondary legislation. Under the Act, individuals retain the right to sue in the Strasbourg court. \n\nFormer Prime Minister David Cameron criticised the Act from 2007 and proposed to replace it with a \"British Bill of Rights\" during his second ministry.\n\nThe Convention was drafted by the Council of Europe after World War II. Sir David Maxwell-Fyfe was the Chair of the Committee on Legal and Administrative Questions of the Council's Consultative Assembly from 1949 to 1952, and oversaw the drafting of the European Convention on Human Rights. It was designed to incorporate a traditional civil liberties approach to securing \"effective political democracy\", from the strong traditions of freedom and liberty in the United Kingdom. As a founding member of the Council of Europe, the UK acceded to the European Convention on Human Rights in March 1951. However it was not until the 1960s that British citizens were able to bring claims in the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR). During the 1980s, groups such as Charter 88 (which invoked the 300th anniversary of the Glorious Revolution in 1688 and the Bill of Rights 1689) accused the executive of misusing its power and argued that a new British Bill of Rights was needed to secure human rights in the UK.\n\nIn its manifesto for the 1997 general election, the Labour party pledged to incorporate the European Convention into domestic law. When the election resulted in a landslide Labour victory, the party, under the leadership of Tony Blair, fulfilled this pledge through Parliamentary passage of the Human Rights Act the following year.\n\nThe 1997 white paper \"Rights Brought Home\" stated:\n\nIt takes on average five years to get an action into the European Court of Human Rights once all domestic remedies have been exhausted; and it costs an average of £30,000. Bringing these rights home will mean that the British people will be able to argue for their rights in the British courts – without this inordinate delay and cost.\n\nThe Human Rights Act places a duty on all courts and tribunals in the United Kingdom to interpret legislation so far as possible in a way compatible with the rights laid down in the European Convention on Human Rights (section 3(1)). Where this is not possible, the court may issue a \"declaration of incompatibility\". The declaration does not invalidate the legislation, but permits the amendment of the legislation by a special fast-track procedure under section 10 of the Act. As of August 2006, 20 declarations had been made, of which six were overturned on appeal.\n\nThe Human Rights Act applies to all public bodies within the United Kingdom, including central government, local authorities, and bodies exercising public functions. However, it does not include Parliament when it is acting in its legislative capacities.\n\nSection 3 is a particularly wide provision that requires courts to interpret both primary and subordinate legislation so that their provisions are compatible with the articles of the European Convention on Human Rights which are also part of the Human Rights Act. This interpretation goes far beyond normal statutory interpretation, and includes past and future legislation, therefore preventing the Human Rights Act from being impliedly repealed. Courts have applied this through three forms of interpretation: \"reading in\", inserting words where there are none in a statute; \"reading out\", where words are omitted from a statute; and \"reading down\", where a particular meaning is chosen to be in compliance. They do not interpret a statute so as to give it a meaning that would conflict with legislative intent, and courts have been reluctant in particular to \"read out\" provisions for this reason. If it is not possible to so interpret, they may issue a declaration of incompatibility under section 4.\n\nSections 4 and 10 allows courts to issue a declaration of incompatibility where it is impossible to use section 3 to interpret primary or subordinate legislation to be compatible with the articles of the European Convention on Human Rights, which are also part of the Human Rights Act. In these cases, interpretation to comply may conflict with legislative intent. It is considered a measure of last resort. A range of superior courts can issue a declaration of incompatibility.\n\nA declaration of incompatibility is not binding on the parties to the proceedings in which it is made, nor can a declaration invalidate legislation. Section 4 therefore achieves its aim through political rather than legal means.\n\nSection 10 gives a government minister the power to make a \"remedial order\" in response to either\n\nA remedial order may \"make such amendments to the legislation as [the Minister] considers necessary to remove the incompatibility\". Remedial orders do not require full legislative approval, but must be approved by resolutions of each House of Parliament. In especially urgent cases, Parliamentary approval may be retroactive.\n\nRemedial orders may have retroactive effect, but no one may be guilty of a criminal offence solely as the result of the retroactive effect of a remedial order.\n\nSection 10 has been used to make small adjustments to bring legislation into line with Convention rights although entirely new pieces of legislation are sometimes necessary.\n\nAs of December 2014, 29 declarations of incompatibility have been issued, of which\n\nThe one case not to have been remedied, as of December 2014, is \"Smith v. Scott\", concerning the right of serving prisoners to vote in the UK.\n\nAlthough the Act, by its own terms, applies only to public bodies, it has had increasing influence on private law litigation between individual citizens leading some academics (source?) to state that it has horizontal effect (as in disputes between citizens) as well as vertical effect (as in disputes between the state and citizens). This is because section 6(1) of the Human Rights Act defines courts and tribunals as public bodies. That means their judgments must comply with human rights obligations of the state, whether a dispute is between the state and citizens, or between citizens, except in cases of declarations of incompatibility. Therefore, judges have a duty to act in compatibility with the Convention even when an action is a private one between two citizens.\n\nThe way that public duty is exercised in private law was dealt with in a June 2016 decision [http://www.bailii.org/cgi-bin/format.cgi?doc=/uk/cases/UKSC/2016/28.html McDonald v McDonald & Ors [2016<nowiki>]</nowiki> UKSC 28 (15 June 2016)] where the UK Supreme Court firstly considered the question \"... whether a court, when entertaining a claim for possession by a private sector owner against a residential occupier, should be required to consider the proportionality of evicting the occupier, in the light of section 6 of the Human Rights Act 1998 and article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights\"\n\nThe Supreme Court decided (paragraph 46) that \"there are many cases where the court can be required to balance conflicting Convention rights of two parties, eg where a person is seeking to rely on her article 8 rights to restrain a newspaper from publishing an article which breaches her privacy, and where the newspaper relies on article 10. But such disputes arise not from contractual arrangements made between two private parties, but tortious or quasi-tortious relationships, where the legislature has expressly, impliedly or through inaction, left it to the courts to carry out the balancing exercise\". \n\nTherefore, in cases \"where the parties are in a contractual relationship in respect of which the legislature has prescribed how their respective Convention rights are to be respected\" then the Court decided, as set out in paragraph 59\n\"In these circumstances, while we accept that the Strasbourg court jurisprudence relied on by the appellant does provide some support for the notion that article 8 was engaged when Judge Corrie was asked to make an order for possession against her, there is no support for the proposition that the judge could be required to consider the proportionality of the order which he would have made under the provisions of the 1980 and 1988 Acts. Accordingly, for the reasons set out in paras 40-46 above, we would dismiss this appeal on the first issue.\"\n\nParagraph 40 supposed that \"\"... it is not open to the tenant to contend that article 8 could justify a different order from that which is mandated by the contractual relationship between the parties, at least where, as here, there are legislative provisions which the democratically elected legislature has decided properly balance the competing interests of private sector landlords and residential tenants.\"\n\nThe duty of state judges to apply Convention rights to disputes between citizens is therefore about determining relationships between them, and applying domestic legislation accordingly. If the duty is carried out then it's likely there is Article 6 compliance.\n\nSection 7 limits a right to bring proceedings under section 6 only to victims (or potential victims) of the unlawful act of the public authority.\n\nSection 8 provides a right for a court to make any remedy they consider just and appropriate. A remedy under the Act is therefore not limited to a Declaration of incompatibility possibly taking into account the equitable maxim Equity delights to do justice and not by halves.\n\nSection 9 provides a right to challenge the compliance of judicial acts made by the UK, but only by exercising a right of appeal as set out by the Access to Justice Act 1999 (although not precluding a right to judicial review). For example, whether a judicial act properly applies legislation, or not.\n\nSection 8 says that UK judges can grant any remedy that is considered just and appropriate.\n\nMany rights established under the Human Rights Act 1998 were already protected under UK law (such as freedom), but the purpose of the Act was largely to establish the European Convention on Human Rights in British law.\n\nSection 21(5) of the Act completely abolished the death penalty in the United Kingdom, effective on royal assent. The death penalty had already been abolished for all civilian offences, including murder (Murder (Abolition of Death Penalty) Act 1965) and treason (Crime and Disorder Act 1998), but remained in force for certain military offences (although these provisions had not been used for several decades).\n\nThis provision was not required by the European Convention (protocol 6 permits the death penalty in time of war; protocol 13, which prohibits the death penalty for all circumstances, did not then exist); rather, the government introduced it as a late amendment in response to parliamentary pressure.\n\nThe Act provides that it is unlawful for a \"public authority\" to act in such a way as to contravene \"Convention rights\". For these purposes public authority includes any other person \"whose functions are functions of a public nature.\" It also explicitly includes the courts. Convention rights includes only those rights specified in section 1 of the Act (these are recited in full in Schedule 1). In the interpretation of those rights the Act provides that the domestic Courts \"may\" take into account the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR).\n\nSection 7 enables any person with standing (as stipulated by Article 34 of the Convention) to raise an action against a public authority which has acted or proposes to act in such a Convention-contravening manner. This is a more rigorous standard than is ordinarily applied to standing in English, although not Scottish, judicial review.\n\nIf it is held that the public authority has violated the claimant's Convention rights, then the court is empowered to \"grant such relief or remedy, or make such order, within its powers as it considers just and appropriate.\" This can include an award of damages, although the Act provides limitations on the court's capacity to make such an award.\n\nHowever, the Act also provides a defence for public authorities if their Convention violating act is in pursuance of a mandatory obligation imposed upon them by Westminster primary legislation. The Act envisages that this will ordinarily be a difficult standard to meet though since it requires the courts to read such legislation (and for that matter subordinate legislation) \"So far as it is possible to do so…in a way which is compatible with the Convention rights.\"\n\nWhere it is impossible to read primary legislation in a Convention compliant manner, the only sanction available to the courts is to make a declaration of incompatibility in respect of it. The power to do so is restricted to the higher courts. Such a declaration has no direct impact upon the continuing force of the legislation but it is likely to produce public pressure upon the government to remove the incompatibility. It also strengthens the case of a claimant armed with such a decision from the domestic courts in any subsequent appeal to ECtHR. In order to provide swift compliance with the Convention the Act allows ministers to take remedial action to amend even offending primary legislation via subordinate legislation.\n\n\nDuring the campaign for the 2005 parliamentary elections the Conservatives under Michael Howard declared their intention to \"overhaul or scrap\" the Human Rights Act:\n\nThe time had come to liberate the nation from the avalanche of political correctness, costly litigation, feeble justice, and culture of compensation running riot in Britain today and warning that the politically correct regime ushered in by Labour's enthusiastic adoption of human rights legislation has turned the age-old principle of fairness on its head.\n\nThe schoolboy arsonist allowed back into the classroom because enforcing discipline apparently denied his right to education; the convicted rapist given £4000 compensation because his second appeal was delayed; the burglar given taxpayers' money to sue the man whose house he broke into; travellers who thumb their nose at the law allowed to stay on green belt sites they have occupied in defiance of planning laws\".\n\nThe schoolboy referred to was speculatively suing for compensation and was a university student at the time of the court case. In addition, the claim was rejected.\n\nConstitutional critics since the Human Rights Bill was tabled at parliament claimed it would result in the unelected judiciary making substantive judgments about government policies and \"mass-legislating\" in their amendments to the common law resulting in a usurpation of Parliament's legislative supremacy and an expansion of the UK courts' justiciability. A leading case of \"R (on the application of Daly) v Secretary of State for the Home Department\" highlights how the new proportionality test borrowed from ECtHR jurisprudence has allowed a greater scrutiny of the substantive merits of decisions of public bodies, meaning that actions against such bodies, Judicial Reviews, are more of an appeal than a traditional judicial review.\n\nThey stress the overriding interpretative obligation of courts under section 3(1) of the Human Rights Act to read primary legislation as Convention-compliant, so far as is possible, is not dependent upon the presence of ambiguity in legislation. Section 3(1) could require the court to depart from the unambiguous meaning that legislation would otherwise bear subject to the constraint that this modified interpretation must be one \"possible\" interpretation of the legislation. Paul Craig argues that this results in the courts adopting linguistically strained interpretations instead of issuing declarations of incompatibility.\n\nRulings based on the Human Rights Act have been criticised by Lady Hale. In 2011 she said that the Act was overused, and criticised the decision of European human rights judges to ensure all signatory states give some prisoners the vote.\n\nIn 2008, Paul Dacre (as editor of the Daily Mail) criticised the Human Rights Act for allowing, in effect, a right to privacy at English law despite the fact that Parliament has not passed such legislation. He was referring to the indirect horizontal effect of the Human Rights Act on the doctrine of breach of confidence which has moved English law closer towards a common law right to privacy. In response, Baron Falconer (as Lord Chancellor) stated that the Human Rights Act had been passed by Parliament, that people's private lives needed protection and that the judge in the case had interpreted relevant authorities correctly.\n\nIn contrast, some have argued that the Human Rights Act does not give adequate protection to rights because of the ability for the government to derogate from Convention rights under article 15. Recent cases such as \"R (ProLife Alliance) v. BBC\" [2002] EWCA Civ 297 have been decided in reference to common law rights rather than statutory rights. Where there is no clear precedent in the common law, judges remain accused of judicial activism.\n\nMore authoritarian politicians in the two largest parties, including some ministers, have criticised the Human Rights Act as to the willingness of the judiciary to make declarations on incompatibility against terrorism legislation. Baron Reid argued that the Act was hampering the fight against global terrorism in regard to controversial control orders:\n\nThere is a very serious threat – and I am the first to admit that the means we have of fighting it are so inadequate that we are fighting with one arm tied behind our backs. So I hope when we bring forward proposals in the next few weeks that we will have a little less party politics and a little more support for national security.\n\nIn 2007, Howard's successor as Leader of the Opposition, David Cameron, vowed to repeal the Human Rights Act if he was elected, instead replacing it with a \"Bill of Rights\" for Britain. The human rights organisation JUSTICE released a discussion paper entitled \"A Bill of Rights for Britain?\", examining the case for updating the Human Rights Act with an entrenched bill.\n\nFollowing the 2010 general election, the Conservative–Liberal Democrat coalition agreement said that the Human Rights Act would be investigated.\n\nIn 2011, following controversial rulings from both the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) and the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom, David Cameron suggested a \"British Bill of Rights\". The government commission set up to investigate the case for a Bill of Rights had a split of opinion.\n\nJudge Dean Spielmann, the President of ECtHR, warned in 2013 that the United Kingdom could not withdraw from the Convention on Human Rights without jeopardising its membership of the European Union.\n\nIn 2014, the Conservative Party planned to repeal the Act and replace it with a \"British Bill of Rights\".\n\nFollowing the 2015 election win for the Conservative Party, Michael Gove, the Secretary of State for Justice, was charged with implementing the reforms which were previously blocked by the Liberal Democrats in the coalition government. The Conservative Party manifesto said that the new bill will \"break the formal link between British Courts and the European Court of Human Rights\". As before 1998 claims relying on ECtHR jurisprudence which conflicted with the \"British Bill of Rights\" would have to go to a court in Strasbourg rather than being able to be heard in the UK. Civil liberty advocates have expressed concern that the proposed changes would \"erode the right to life, the right to privacy, the right to a fair trial, the right to protest and the right to freedom from torture and discrimination\".\n\nHowever, the Conservatives' manifesto from the next general election in 2017 pledged to retain the Human Rights Act \"while the process of Brexit is underway\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "313352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=313352", "title": "Institut de Droit International", "text": "Institut de Droit International\n\nThe Institute of International Law (French: Institut de Droit International) is an organization devoted to the study and development of international law, whose membership comprises the world's leading public international lawyers. The organization is generally considered the most authoritative world academy of international law, and its work earned the Nobel Peace Prize in 1904.\n\nThe institute was founded by Gustave Moynier and Gustave Rolin-Jaequemyns, together with 9 other renowned international lawyers, on 8 September 1873 in the \"Salle de l'Arsenal\" of the Ghent Town Hall in Belgium. The founders of 1873 were: \n\nThe Institute is a private body, made up of \"associates\", \"members\", and \"honorary members\". The Statute stipulates that the number of members and associates under the age of 80 cannot be over 132. The members, invited by the organization, are persons who have demonstrated notable scholarly work in the area of international law, and is restricted to those who are considered relatively free of political pressure. The organisation attempts to have members broadly distributed around the world. \n\nThe organisation holds biannual congresses for the study of international law as it currently exists, and passes resolutions proposing modifications to international law. It does not comment on specific disputes.\n\nWhile its recommendations cover international law in its many forms, some of its resolutions particularly pertain to human rights law and peaceful dispute resolution. It is for this reason that the organization received the Nobel Peace Prize.\n\nThe organization remains active, with a congress held in Naples in Sept 2009. The location of the institute's headquarters rotates according to the origin of the Secretary General. The current headquarters are at the Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies in Geneva, Switzerland. \n\nCurrent members of the Institut include, amongst other prominent lawyers and legal academics, judges of the International Court of Justice, International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, and International Criminal Court. \n\nRecent resolutions from the organization cover many important areas such as universal jurisdiction, provisional measures, regime of wrecks, immunity, environment, use of force, etc.\n\nThe Institut publishes its Annuaire, containing the reports of the commissions, deliberations of the plenary sessions, and any resulting declarations and resolutions. The records of the administrative sessions including elections are also included in the Annuaire. The website for the works of the Institut is here: http://www.idi-iil.org/en/publications/\n\nThe Institut maintains a website. The website has been recently revamped and contains much useful information such as the declarations and resolutions, and some works in progress for future inclusion in the Annuaire.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44409150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44409150", "title": "International Building Performance Simulation Association", "text": "International Building Performance Simulation Association\n\nThe International Building Performance Simulation Association (IBPSA), is a non-profit international society of building performance simulation researchers, developers and practitioners, dedicated to improving the built environment. IBPSA aims to provide a forum for researchers, developers and practitioners to review building model developments, encourage the use of software programs, address standardization, accelerate integration and technology transfer, via exchange of knowledge and organization of (inter)national conferences.\n\nIBPSA is an international organization with regional affiliate organizations around the world. IBPSA is governed by a board of directors elected by the membership of all the regional affiliates. In addition to the president, vice-president, secretary, and treasurer, the board is made up of members-at-large and representatives sent by the regional affiliates.\n\nibpsaNEWS, IBPSA's online newsletter is published twice per year. The current edition and past issues are available at the IBPSA website.\n\nIBPSA is organizer of the bi-annual international IBPSA Building Simulation Conference and Exhibition. \"Building Simulation\" is the premier international event in the field of building performance simulation. In addition to the international conferences, some regional affiliates organize local conferences, as well. All papers presented in the proceedings of these conferences are available at IBPSA's website.\n\nThe Journal of Building Performance Simulation (JBPS) is the official peer-reviewed scientific journal of the International Building Performance Simulation Association. JBPS publishes articles of the highest quality that are original, cutting-edge, well-researched and of significance to the international community. The journal also offers a forum for original review papers and researched case studies. JBPS is published by Taylor & Francis Group, and co-edited by dr. Jan Hensen (Eindhoven University of Technology) and dr. Ian Beausoleil-Morrison (Carleton University).\n\nMembership of IBPSA is organized through regional affiliates. These affiliates plan and coordinate different types of activities, such as conferences, software workshops, symposia, etc. There are currently 28 regional IBPSA affiliates, spanning 5 continents: Argentina, Australasia, Brazil, Canada, China, Chile, Czech Republic, Danube, Egypt, England, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Korea, Netherlands + Flanders, Nordic, Poland, Scotland, Singapore, Slovakia, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey, United Arab Emirates and USA.\n\nIBPSA has partnered with ASHRAE and IESNA to develop the Building Energy Modeling Professional Certification scheme. \nIn addition, IBPSA is supporter of mailing lists and question-and-answer websites that stimulation knowledge exchange and discussion among users of building performance simulation in research and practice.\n\n"}
{"id": "446099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=446099", "title": "John Terry", "text": "John Terry\n\nJohn George Terry (born 7 December 1980) is an English football coach and former professional footballer who played as a centre-back. He was previously captain of Chelsea, the England national team and Aston Villa; he is currently working as an assistant coach with the latter.\n\nA strong, tenacious, commanding and physical defender, Terry excelled in the air and was known for his aggressive tackling, positioning, leadership and his ability to read the game; he is considered to be one of the greatest central defenders of his generation. Terry was named UEFA Club Defender of the Year in 2005, 2008 and 2009, PFA Players' Player of the Year in 2005, and was included in the FIFPro World XI for five consecutive seasons, from 2005 to 2009. He was also named in the all-star squad for the 2006 FIFA World Cup, the only English player to make the team.\n\nTerry is Chelsea's most successful captain, having led them to five Premier League titles, four FA Cups, three League Cups, one UEFA Europa League and one UEFA Champions League title since 2004. He is one of five players to have made over 500 appearances for Chelsea and is also the club's all-time highest scoring defender. In 2007, he became the first captain to lift the FA Cup at the new Wembley Stadium in Chelsea's 1–0 win over Manchester United, and also the first player to score an international goal there, scoring a header in England's 1–1 draw with Brazil. In his final season at Chelsea in 2017, he became the first ever player to captain a team to the Premier League title on five occasions.\n\nFollowing his departure from Chelsea, Terry spent one season with Aston Villa in the EFL Championship before retiring.\n\nBorn in Barking, London, Terry attended Eastbury Comprehensive School and played for local Sunday league team Senrab, which also featured future Premier League players Sol Campbell, Jermain Defoe, Bobby Zamora, Ledley King and Jlloyd Samuel. As a boy, he initially was part of West Ham United's youth system, joining them as a midfielder in 1991. He moved to Chelsea at 14, playing for the club's youth and reserve teams. It was due to a shortage of central defenders that he was moved to centre-back, the position he plays today. After finishing school, he joined the club on a YTS at age 16 and signed professional terms a year later.\n\nTerry made his Chelsea debut on 28 October 1998 as a late substitute in a League Cup tie with Aston Villa; his first start came later that season in an FA Cup third-round match, a 2–0 win over Oldham Athletic. He spent a brief period on loan with Nottingham Forest in 2000 to build up his first team experience and was the subject of interest from both Forest manager David Platt and Huddersfield Town manager Steve Bruce.\n\nIn 2002, Terry was involved in an altercation with a bouncer at a West London nightclub with Chelsea teammate Jody Morris and Wimbledon's Des Byrne, which led to him being charged with assault and affray. In August 2002, Terry was acquitted of the charges in court. During the affair, he was given a temporary ban from the English national team by The Football Association. Previously, along with Chelsea teammates Frank Lampard, Jody Morris, Eiður Guðjohnsen and former teammate Frank Sinclair, in September 2001 Terry was fined two weeks wages by Chelsea after drunkenly harassing grieving American tourists in the immediate aftermath of the September 11 attacks. During his early days at Chelsea, Terry shared a flat with Andrew Crofts.\n\nTerry began to establish himself in the Chelsea first team from the 2000–01 season, making 23 starts and was voted the club's Player of the Year. He continued his progress during 2001–02, becoming a regular in the defence alongside club captain and France international Marcel Desailly. On 5 December 2001, he captained Chelsea for the first time, in a League match against Charlton Athletic. Chelsea reached the FA Cup Final, following wins against London rivals West Ham United and Tottenham Hotspur in the fourth and six rounds respectively, and Fulham in the semi-final – where Terry scored the only goal in a 1–0 victory. A virus denied Terry a place in the starting line-up for the final, although he came on as a second-half substitute while Chelsea lost 2–0 to Arsenal. In 2003–04 season, his performances led to him being handed the captain's armband by manager Claudio Ranieri when Desailly was out of the team. He played well in the absence of the French international, forming a strong defensive partnership with William Gallas.\n\nFollowing Desailly's retirement, new Chelsea manager José Mourinho chose Terry as his club captain, a choice which was vindicated throughout the 2004–05 season as Chelsea won the Premier League title in record-breaking fashion with the best defensive record in Football League history with the most clean sheets and the most points accrued. He was voted Player of the Year by his fellow professionals in England and scored eight goals, including a late winner against Barcelona, in the UEFA Champions League. He was voted the best defender in the Champions League for the season. In September 2005, he was selected as a member of the World XI at the FIFPro awards. The team was chosen by a vote of professional footballers based in 40 countries.\n\nChelsea defended their Premier League title in 2005–06, earning 91 points, and confirming the title with a 3–0 victory against Manchester United.\n\nIn a match on 14 October 2006 against Reading, Terry had to take over in goal for Chelsea in the final minutes of the match after goalkeepers Petr Čech and Carlo Cudicini were injured and Chelsea had no substitutes remaining. Terry kept a clean sheet as Chelsea held out to win 1–0, although he did not have a single save to make and his goalkeeping experience was limited to taking a free kick from inside the penalty area. On 5 November 2006, playing against Tottenham Hotspur, Terry was sent off for the first time in his Chelsea career after receiving two yellow cards as the Blues lost at White Hart Lane for the first time since 1987. Terry was charged with misconduct by the FA for questioning the integrity of match referee Graham Poll after the match. On 10 January 2007, Terry was ordered to pay £10,000 for the inappropriate conduct after he changed his mind and pleaded guilty to the FA.\n\nIn the 2006–07 season, Terry missed matches for Chelsea due to a recurring back problem. On 26 December 2006, José Mourinho stated that his captain might require surgery to fix the problem. In Terry's absence Chelsea drew 2–2 at home to both Reading and Fulham over Christmas, draws that were to prove crucial in the destiny of the Premier League title for that season. On 28 December, Chelsea released a press statement saying Terry had had back surgery: \"The operation to remove a sequestrated lumbar intervertebral disc was successful.\" Although he was expected to return in the match against Wigan Athletic, which Chelsea won 3–2 thanks to a late goal from winger Arjen Robben, Terry was missing once again, due to the recurring back problem. He made his return in Chelsea's 1–0 victory over Charlton Athletic on 3 February 2007 coming on in the 88th minute for Claude Makelele. Terry played his first 90 minutes of football for nearly three months in Chelsea's 3–0 victory over Middlesbrough and received much applause from the Chelsea faithful. Didier Drogba scored two goals for Chelsea in that match, while the other goal came courtesy of an own goal from Abel Xavier of Middlesbrough.\n\nPlaying in the UEFA Champions League round of 16 away against Porto, he suffered another injury, this time to his ankle, and was set to miss the 2007 League Cup Final against Arsenal, but managed to recover from the injury within days and played in the final. During the second half of the match, at an attacking corner, he threw himself at the ball with a diving header; Arsenal's Abou Diaby, in an attempt to clear the ball, kicked Terry in the face. Terry was unconscious for several minutes, at which point he nearly swallowed his tongue. He was carried off the field on a stretcher and immediately transferred to the University Hospital of Wales. Terry discharged himself the same day and returned to the Millennium Stadium to celebrate his team's 2–1 win. The only recollection he had of the second half is walking out onto the pitch and he did not remember the ten minutes he played prior to his injury. He went on to lead Chelsea to the semi-final of the UEFA Champions League, the third time in four years that Chelsea had made it to the final four of the competition. In May 2007, Terry captained Chelsea in the 2007 FA Cup Final, in the first FA Cup final at the new Wembley Stadium.\n\nDespite failing to agree terms to a new contract immediately following 2006–07, Terry stated on several occasions that he had no intention of leaving Chelsea. In late July, he signed a new five-year contract with a base salary of between £131,000 and £135,000 per week, making him the highest-paid player in the Premier League at the time.\n\nOn 16 December 2007, whilst playing against Arsenal, while going to clear a ball Terry's foot was stepped on by Emmanuel Eboué and Terry had suffered 3 broken bones in his foot. He was expected to be out for at least three months but made a speedy recovery and managed to captain Chelsea to the 2008 League Cup Final against Tottenham, which Chelsea lost 2–1. On 11 May 2008, whilst playing in the last league match of the season against Bolton, he collided with goalkeeper Petr Čech and suffered a partially dislocated elbow, which was eventually put back into place en route to the hospital. This injury did not prevent him playing in the 2008 UEFA Champions League Final against Manchester United. The match went to penalties, and Terry missed a penalty which would have won Chelsea the match (and the Champions League). His standing leg slipped as he took his kick, and the ball missed the goal. Chelsea lost the shootout 6–5, which Terry reacted to by breaking down in tears. On 28 August 2008, Terry was awarded the Defender of The Year award from UEFA at the Champions League group stage draw in Monaco, together with Frank Lampard and Petr Čech, who received the award for their respective positions.\n\nOn 13 September 2008, Terry received the first straight red card of his career against Manchester City for rugby-tackling Jô. However, this was later rescinded on appeal. Despite being a defender, he occasionally scores important goals for Chelsea, such as in the Champions League Group A home match against Roma. However, Chelsea went on to lose the away leg 3–1.\n\nIn July 2009, Manchester City made a third bid for Terry, but Chelsea coach Carlo Ancelotti insisted Terry would remain at Chelsea. He made his debut for the new season against Premier League team Hull City, a match Chelsea won. On 8 November 2009, Terry scored the decisive goal in Chelsea's match against Manchester United at Stamford Bridge to preserve their perfect home record for the season.\n\nOn 9 May 2010, Terry captained Chelsea as they won their fourth Premier League title after an 8–0 win against Wigan Athletic at Stamford Bridge. A week later, on 15 May 2010, Terry captained Chelsea as he won his fourth FA Cup medal, defeating Portsmouth in the final by 1–0 at Wembley Stadium.\n\nOn 31 December 2011, in a home match against Aston Villa, Terry captained the Chelsea team for the 400th time of his career, a record for the club.\n\nTerry was the world's third best passer in 2011 for players with over 1,000 passes, with a 91.6% pass accuracy rate. Only Barcelona player Xavi (93.0%) and Swansea City player Leon Britton (93.3%) were better.\n\nOn 24 April 2012, Terry was sent off for violent conduct after driving a knee into Barcelona's Alexis Sánchez in an off-the-ball incident in the 2011–12 UEFA Champions League semi-final at the Camp Nou. Chelsea's 3–2 aggregate victory over the holders qualified them for the final against Bayern Munich, for which Terry would be suspended. Terry later apologised for letting his teammates and Chelsea fans down. Terry scored his sixth league goal of the season, seventh in all competitions, in the final match of the season, a 2–1 victory over already-relegated Blackburn. The goal meant that it was Terry's most prolific season and he told the Chelsea website, \"I am delighted with seven... It's always good to end a league season with a win.\"\n\nEven though Terry was suspended for the Champions League Final, along with teammates Ramires, Branislav Ivanović and Raul Meireles, he took part in celebrations at the final whistle after Chelsea triumphed 4–3 on penalty kicks, with striker Didier Drogba netting the decisive penalty. \n\nTerry was snubbed by Queens Park Rangers defender Anton Ferdinand in the pre-match handshake against QPR. Terry was banned for four matches when he was found guilty of racially abusing Ferdinand.\n\nOn 11 November 2012, in his first match back from the four-match ban, Terry scored his 50th goal for Chelsea against Liverpool. He went off injured in the 39th minute of the same match and was suspected to have ligament damage on his right knee, but a scan the next day showed that there was \"no significant damage.\" On 7 December 2012, new Chelsea manager Rafael Benítez confirmed Terry would not be back from injury in time to play in the 2012 FIFA Club World Cup. Terry's knee injury kept him out of action for 16 first-team matches in total, including the Club World Cup defeat. He made a 45-minute comeback for Chelsea's under-21 team on 10 January, before returning to the first team in a 2–2 draw away to Brentford in the FA Cup fourth round on 24 January.\n\nOn 17 April 2013, Terry scored twice in the derby match against Fulham that ended 3–0. On 13 May 2014, Terry signed a new one-year deal with the Blues.\n\nOn 18 October 2014, Terry captained Chelsea for the 500th time against Crystal Palace. In the next match, on 21 October, Terry scored in Chelsea's record Champions League win against Slovenian team Maribor. Later, he scored Chelsea's fastest-ever goal in the Champions League by heading in a goal after 90 seconds against Schalke 04.\n\nIn the League Cup final on 1 March 2015, Terry opened the scoring was named Man of the Match in Chelsea's 2–0 victory over Tottenham. On 26 March, Terry signed one-year extension to his contract. On 26 April, Terry, along with five of his Chelsea teammates, was voted into the PFA Premier League Team of the Year. On 29 April, Terry became the joint highest-scoring defender in the Premier League with 38 goals, having scored the second goal in a 3–1 win over Leicester City. On 10 May, Terry surpassed David Unsworth as the highest-scoring defender in the Premier League after scoring his 39th in the opening five minutes against Liverpool, an eventual 1–1 draw.\n\nOn 23 August 2015, Terry received his first league red card for over five years, being dismissed for a foul on Salomón Rondón in a 3–2 win at West Bromwich Albion. On 15 January 2016, Terry scored an own goal in the 50th minute as well as his first goal of the season in the 98th minute, earning a 3–3 draw against Everton. On 1 February 2016, Terry announced that he would leave Chelsea in the summer of 2016, saying \"It's not going to be a fairytale ending.\"\n\nAlthough Terry announced in February that there were no talks held to discuss a new contract, on 18 May 2016, Terry signed a new one-year contract to remain at Chelsea until the end of the 2016–17 season. Ten days previously, Terry had been sent off in a 3–2 loss to Sunderland at the Stadium of Light in what was widely believed to have been his final appearance for the club.\n\nDuring Antonio Conte's first press conference as the new Chelsea manager, Conte confirmed that Terry will remain the club captain. On 11 September 2016, during the closing minutes of the match against Swansea City, Terry suffered an ankle injury and required crutches to leave the pitch after the final whistle.\n\nOn 8 January 2017, making his first start for Chelsea since an EFL Cup defeat to West Ham United in October 2016, Terry was given a straight red card for a foul on Lee Angol as Chelsea beat Peterborough United 4–1 in the FA Cup third round. On 17 April, he announced that he would be leaving Chelsea at the end of the 2016–17 season. After Chelsea celebrated their Premier League victory, Terry played his 717th and final match for Chelsea on 21 May in a 5–1 home win over Sunderland, coming off in the 28th minute (the substitution board went up in the 26th minute, the same as that of his shirt number), and received a guard of honour from his teammates.\n\nOn 3 July 2017, Terry signed a one-year contract with Championship club Aston Villa on a free transfer. He was appointed as the captain for the 2017–18 season. He made his debut for Aston Villa on 5 August 2017 in a 1–1 home draw with Hull City in the Championship. Terry scored his only goal for Aston Villa in a 2–1 victory over Fulham in the Championship on 21 October 2017.\n\nOn 30 May 2018, Terry left Aston Villa after the club failed to gain promotion to the Premier League as they lost 1–0 against Fulham in the Championship play-off final.\n\nIn September 2018, Terry underwent a medical with Spartak Moscow, but declined their offer of a contract, citing family reasons. He announced his retirement from playing on 7 October 2018.\n\nTerry made his England debut in June 2003 against Serbia and Montenegro, and started his first match for England on 20 August 2003 at Portman Road, Ipswich, in a friendly against Croatia. England won 3–1. His main central defensive partner had been Rio Ferdinand. He played for his country at Euro 2004, and England Manager Sven-Göran Eriksson stated that Terry was the first-choice centre-back, ahead of Sol Campbell.\n\nIn 2005 during a FIFA World Cup qualifying match against Poland, Terry wore England's captain armband, replacing Michael Owen as captain after the latter was substituted.\n\nHe has cemented his place in the England squad by being selected for the 2006 FIFA World Cup. In a warm-up match for that tournament against Hungary on 30 May 2006, Terry scored his first goal for England, the team's second in a 3–1 victory. Despite an injury scare in a friendly against Jamaica, he recovered to play in England's opening fixture against Paraguay, a 1–0 victory. In the next match against Trinidad and Tobago, Carlos Edwards beat England's Paul Robinson to a cross and as Stern John bundled a header towards the goal, Terry cleared the ball off the line with an overhead kick. In the quarter-final match against Portugal, Terry played the entire match, but England lost on penalties and he was left in tears with his fellow players. Six days later, he was the only English player to be named in the tournament's all-star squad.\n\nOn 10 August 2006, Steve McClaren named John Terry as the England captain, succeeding David Beckham. McClaren said, \"Choosing a captain is one of the most important decisions a coach has to make. I'm certain I've got the right man in John Terry. I'm convinced he will prove to be one of the best captains England has ever had.\" Terry scored a goal on his debut as the England captain, in a friendly international against Greece. This was the first goal of the match and also the first goal during McClaren's reign as manager. However, with Terry as captain, England did not qualify for UEFA Euro 2008 – their first absence from a tournament finals since the 1994 FIFA World Cup. Midway through the qualification campaign, Terry had accepted that he would \"bear full responsibility\" should England fail to qualify.\n\nOn 1 June 2007, Terry became the first player in the senior England team to score an international goal at the new Wembley Stadium when he scored England's goal from a header in the box after a free kick cross by David Beckham in a 1–1 draw with Brazil. Almost a year later, he scored a similar headed goal once again from a free kick cross by David Beckham to put England 1–0 up against the United States on 28 May 2008.\n\nTerry was confirmed as the England captain in August, and captained England in qualifying for the 2010 FIFA World Cup. During his first match after being reinstated as the permanent England captain he was given a torrid time by Milan Baroš and was turned far too easily when Baros scored the first goal for the Czech Republic. The match ended 2–2 with Joe Cole scoring a fortunate equaliser for England in the 92nd minute of the match. He scored his first competitive England goal against Ukraine in the qualifiers for the World Cup, grabbing a late winner after earlier giving away a free kick which saw Andriy Shevchenko equalise for Ukraine.\n\nOn 5 February 2010, following allegations regarding Terry's private life, England manager Fabio Capello announced that Terry was removed as the captain of the England team. He was replaced by fellow defender Rio Ferdinand.\n\nAt the 2010 FIFA World Cup, England started with two draws against the United States and Algeria, which received heavy criticism from the English media.\n\nTwo days after the Algeria match in a media interview, Terry hinted at dissatisfaction with Capello's team selection and stated that the players were bored with little to do in the evenings at their training base; he also said that a clear-the-air team meeting would take place that evening. The next day, Capello responded by saying that Terry had made \"a very big mistake\" in challenging his authority to the media.\n\nOn 19 March 2011, Capello reinstated Terry as England captain following a long-term injury to previous captain Rio Ferdinand. On 3 February 2012, with Terry due to stand trial due to allegations that Terry had racially abused QPR's Anton Ferdinand, the FA stripped Terry of the England captaincy for the second time. This led to Capello resigning.\n\nTerry was named in new manager Roy Hodgson's squad for UEFA Euro 2012 while Rio Ferdinand was left out, leading to heavy speculation that this was to avoid potential conflict due to Terry's upcoming trial for racially abusing Ferdinand's brother Anton. Terry played 90 minutes in all four of England's matches at the Euros.\n\nTerry announced on 23 September 2012 he had retired from international football.\n\nOn 10 October 2018, Terry was appointed assistant manager of Aston Villa with newly appointed Dean Smith as manager.\n\nOn the UK version of \"Pro Evolution Soccer 6\", he appears on the front cover with Brazil international Adriano.\n\nHe Is married to Toni (née Poole). In 2009, Terry was named \"Dad of the Year\" after he came top of a poll of UK adults in a Daddies Sauce survey. \n\nTerry's older brother, Paul (born 1979), is a former professional footballer, having notably played for Dagenham & Redbridge and Yeovil Town.\n\nTerry was a Manchester United supporter growing up. \n\nTerry is one of a very small group of footballers to have been paid more than £1 million for their autobiography. His deal with publisher HarperCollins was negotiated in 2004 by Chris Nathaniel of NVA Management.\n\nIn 2016, Terry paid the £1,600 funeral costs for an eight-year-old Chelsea fan with leukemia who died from an unsuccessful bone marrow transplantation.\n\nIn September 2001, Terry and three teammates were fined two weeks' wages by Chelsea for an incident involving players and American tourists at a Heathrow airport bar in the immediate aftermath of the September 11 attacks. In January 2002 Terry, Chelsea teammate Jody Morris and Des Byrne of Wimbledon were charged with assault and affray after a confrontation with a nightclub bouncer. Terry was banned from selection for the England team for the duration of the case, though he was ultimately cleared of all charges. In 2009, Terry was investigated by Chelsea and the FA for allegedly taking money from an undercover reporter for a private tour of Chelsea's training ground. The club responded that it was \"confident that at no time did Terry ask for or accept money in relation to visits to the training ground.\"\n\nIn January 2010, a super-injunction was imposed by a High Court judge preventing the media from reporting allegations that Terry had had a four-month affair in late 2009 with Vanessa Perroncel, the former girlfriend of Wayne Bridge, his former Chelsea and England teammate. The injunction was lifted a week later, and the British media – especially the tabloid press – covered the rumours in great detail in the days following. \"The News of the World\" and the \"Mail on Sunday\" subsequently printed apologies to Perroncel for breaching her privacy and stated that the story was \"untrue in any case\". Perroncel maintains that the alleged affair never took place. The allegations led to then-England manager Fabio Capello removing Terry from the captaincy on 5 February 2010, replacing him with Rio Ferdinand. Terry was reinstated as captain the following year.\n\nOn 2 November 2011, Terry was placed under police investigation following an allegation of racist abuse made at Anton Ferdinand during a match versus Queens Park Rangers. Video footage circulated on the internet led to accusations that Terry called Ferdinand a \"fucking black cunt.\" In response to the video footage, Terry claimed that he was actually asking Ferdinand, \"Oi, Anton, do you think I called you a black cunt?\" On 25 November 2011, Terry was interviewed under caution by the police. On 21 December 2011, he was charged with using racist language by the Crown Prosecution Service. On 3 February 2012, The Football Association stripped Terry of his England captaincy for the second time, stating that Terry would not captain the national team until the racial abuse allegations against him were resolved.\n\nWhen the trial began in July 2012, Terry entered a not guilty plea and was acquitted of the charge on 13 July 2012. The court established that neither Ferdinand nor anyone else had heard Terry's words, but Terry himself admitted that he had directed the words \"fucking black cunt\" and \"fucking knobhead\" at Ferdinand, which was affirmed by two expert lip readers from video evidence. Terry maintained that he used the words as a form of sarcasm and that he was questioning what he thought had been an allegation of racism from Ferdinand; neither lip reader was able to \"identify whether the statement was made as a question or in what type of voice it was said.\" Justice Riddle concluded that while there was no doubt Terry had uttered those words in anger, \"it is impossible to be sure exactly what were the words spoken by [Terry] at the relevant time\" and that there was a lack of evidence to prove beyond a doubt that Terry had used them as an insult instead of \"a challenge to what he believed had been said to him.\" The court therefore found Terry not guilty.\n\nOn 27 July 2012, the FA charged Terry for using \"abusive and/or insulting words and/or behaviour\" which \"included a reference to the ethnic origin and/or colour and/or race of Ferdinand.\" The FA had delayed the charge until after the conclusion of Terry's criminal trial. Terry denied the charge. On the eve of the FA's hearing, Terry announced his retirement from the English national football team, saying his position had become \"untenable\" due to the disciplinary charge. On 27 September 2012, the hearing concluded with Terry being found guilty; he was punished with a four-match ban and a £220,000 fine.\n\nThe FA published a 63-page report regarding the disciplinary proceedings conducted by an Independent Regulatory Commission; it labelled aspects of Terry's defence as \"improbable, implausible and contrived,\" finding it \"inherently unlikely that if he had been accused by Mr. Ferdinand of calling him something that ended with the words \"black cunt\", that Mr. Terry would have added the word \"fucking\" when he threw the words back, if he was genuinely doing so by way of forceful denial\" and \"inherently improbable\" that he would call Anton Ferdinand a \"fucking knobhead\" for falsely accusing him of racial abuse. The Commission found it \"implausible\" that to robustly deny having used the words \"black cunt\" he \"simply repeated\" them. His defence in court was not that he had \"simply repeated\" the words but that he had \"sarcastically\" repeated them (see above), however, there was no reference to sarcasm in the Regulatory Commission's 63-page written report. The Commission concluded that it was \"quite satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that there [was] no credible basis for Mr. Terry's defence that his use of the words 'fucking black cunt' were directed at Ferdinand by way of forceful rejection and/or inquiry. Instead, [the Commission was] quite satisfied, and [found] on the balance of probabilities, that the offending words were said by way of insult.\"\n\nThe FA commission was also criticised as a \"kangaroo court\" and the FA for its lack of independence, for failing to disclose all evidence to the police, failing to tape record their interview with key witness Ashley Cole, for lowering the required burden of proof after the incident had taken place, and for punishing Terry for an offence he had already been cleared of in a criminal court, in contravention of its own rules, which state that verdicts in criminal cases are \"presumed to be correct\" unless \"clear and convincing evidence\" to the contrary emerges. Terry's four-match ban was contrasted with Luis Suárez's eight-match ban for racially abusing Patrice Evra (Suárez received a longer ban for using the insults repeatedly) and a 14-year-old schoolboy's five-match ban for telling a referee his name was Santa Claus.\n\nOn 18 October 2012, Terry decided not to appeal against the verdict and his four-match ban. He issued an apology for \"the language [he] used in the game\" and stated that it was \"not acceptable on the football field or indeed in any walk of life.\" Chelsea announced that they had taken further disciplinary action against Terry while keeping the details confidential. However, Terry and Chelsea still faced media condemnation; Terry was criticised for not directly and personally apologising to Ferdinand, while Chelsea were accused of hypocrisy and double standards by only fining Terry and not stripping him of his captaincy when they have a \"zero-tolerance\" approach to racism and had previously handed a life ban to a fan who racially abused former Chelsea player Didier Drogba. In a radio interview, Chelsea chairman Bruce Buck and chief executive Ron Gourlay called the incident a \"lapse of judgement\" and \"out of character\" from Terry and stated that the club had \"taken firm disciplinary action appropriate to the circumstances,\" adding that \"we must not forget he was cleared in a court of law.\"\n\nIn \"The Daily Telegraph\", Paul Hayward summed up his view of the consequences of the controversial incident, that \"the cost has been high. Here, three vile words muttered by Terry at Loftus Road ultimately removed Fabio Capello from the England manager's job; inflicted much distress on the Ferdinand family; brought a £45,000 fine for Rio Ferdinand for his endorsement of a \"choc ice\" tweet aimed at Chelsea's left-back; removed Terry from the England reckoning and shed yet more light on the fantasy world of Ashley Cole.\"\n\nTerry has been part of a popular meme picturing him taking part in great moments in history and fiction following his decision to come on to the pitch to lift the European Cup in full kit despite being suspended for the 2012 UEFA Champions League Final, he repeated this when Chelsea won the 2013 UEFA Europa League Final which he did not play in due to injury. These included the fall of the Berlin Wall, the freeing of Nelson Mandela and the triumph of Rocky Balboa. Over the summer of 2012 this developed into his celebrating current sporting achievements such as 2012 Summer Olympics medal wins by Team GB.\n\nChelsea\n\nIndividual\n\n"}
{"id": "35035105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35035105", "title": "Land administration", "text": "Land administration\n\nLand administration is the way in which the rules of land tenure are applied and made operational. Land administration, whether formal or informal, comprises an extensive range of systems and processes to administer. The processes of land administration include the transfer of rights in land from one party to another through sale, lease, loan, gift and inheritance; the regulating of land and property development; the use and conservation of the land; the gathering of revenues from the land through sales, leasing, and taxation; and the resolving of conflicts concerning the ownership and the use of land. Land administration functions may be divided into four components: Juridical, regulatory, fiscal, and information management. These functions of land administration may be organized in terms of agencies responsible for surveying and mapping, land registration, and land valuation. The purpose and scope of this knowledge domain appear from the following introducing notes:\n\nAn early example of use of the notion of land administration is a 1973 \"Seminar on Land Administration\" in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. \"Land administration arrangements\" were charted in a 1985 paper by Holstein, McLaughlin, and Nichols, and the Department of Lands and Surveys, Western Australia changed name in 1986 to Department of Land Administration. The UNECE in 1996 published \"Land Administration Guidelines With Special Reference to Countries in Transition\", and the Dale & McLaughlin textbook on \"Land Information Management\" from 1988 was in 1999 succeeded by the textbook \"Land Administration\".\n\nThe practise of land administration is older than the presently used term. In \"The Cadastral Map in the Service of the State\", mention is made of cadastral survey and subsequent tax collection in northern part of the Netherlands, initiated by an order in 1533. Other early, seventeenth century mapping for administrative purposes are found, e.g. in Sweden and in German principalities. In the duchy of Austrian Lombardy, a complete cadastral survey, the Milan cadaster, was finally adopted as a taxation base in 1760, and this provided the model for continental European countries to follow. Largely independent from this cadastral development, local courts recorded deeds of conveyance. In the context of codification of national legislation, most European countries in the nineteenth century established a title system at the local courts. England and Wales departed from this trend, as prolonged debates during the nineteenth century left parties with optional public recording of deeds of conveyance and the locating of properties and their boundaries on large-scale topographic maps, where available, similar to the metes and bounds method. However, most of British India was covered, during the nineteenth century, by the Revenue Survey.\n\nIn the colony (now state) of South Australia, Robert Torrens in 1858 introduced a title system. Like the Milan cadastre, this system became a model to be followed, initially within the Commonwealth. In the USA, the Land Ordinance of 1785 established the basis for the Public Land Survey System, which provides locational functions as the cadastral or - in modern terms - land information system described above. For the present adoption of the Torrens system in the USA, see Justin T. Holl, Jr. et al. (2007).\n\nThe domain of land administration is characterized by the engagement of international organizations as much as by its intrinsic, multi-disciplinary structure. Among intergovernmental organizations,\n\nInternational professional associations include\n\nThe list of partners in the \"Global Land Tool Network\" refers to more international organisations, NGOs, research institutions, etc.\n\nThe Faculty of Geo-Information Science and Earth Observation (ITC) of the University of Twente, the Netherlands, provides international postgraduate education, research and project services in the field of geo-information science and earth observation using remote sensing and GIS. The aim of ITC's activities is the international exchange of knowledge, focusing on capacity building and institutional development in developing countries and emerging economies. ITC cooperates with the United Nations University at developing and carrying out a joint programme on capacity building in disaster management and in land administration\n\nGeomatics at the University of Melbourne, Australia, is about science and research into spatial information. The Geomatics team is an international leader in spatial data infrastructures and land administration. The research agenda embraces legal, institutional and technical issues of establishing and accessing information about land faced by land managers and administrators, in both developed and developing countries.\n\nA number of universities offer land administration courses in the context of related master's degree programmes:\n\n"}
{"id": "10950935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10950935", "title": "Legal Aid Society of Cleveland", "text": "Legal Aid Society of Cleveland\n\nThe Legal Aid Society of Cleveland is a legal aid society in Cleveland, Ohio established in 1905. It helped pioneer a nationwide legal aid movement whose leaders held to a simple but profound principle: that rich and poor alike are entitled to equal treatment under the law.\n\nThe first legal aid organization, the Deutscher Rechts-Schutz Verein (German Legal Aid Society), was incorporated in New York City in 1876 \"to render legal aid and assistance, gratuitously, to those of German birth, who may appear worthy thereof, but who from poverty are unable to procure it.\" Chicago's Ethical Culture Society formed the Bureau of Justice in 1888, which sought to provide legal services to all poor persons. This, according to a chronology of the history of legal services, was the first true legal aid organization.\n\nIn 1896, the New York society amended its charter, dropping the word \"German\" to become \"The Legal Aid Society,\" and in 1899 it opened three branch offices. Following these pioneers, legal aid societies were organized in Boston (1900), Philadelphia (1902), and Cleveland (1905).\n\nNow, for more than one hundred years, the Legal Aid Society of Cleveland has provided legal services to those unable to afford a lawyer. It is an organization with a remarkable story of progressive men and women working to better the lives of Cleveland's poor.\n\nIncorporated in May 1905, the Legal Aid Society of Cleveland is the fifth oldest organization of its kind in the world. In a statement of purpose published in 1906, the founders wrote, legal aid is based on the principle that justice is the right of all men, and aims to put the rich and poor on an actual equality before the law.\n\nTwo private attorneys, Isador Grossman and Arthur D. Baldwin organized Legal Aid, which was initially funded through private donations and subscriptions. Grossman was its sole attorney from 1905 to 1912. From 1912 to 1939, Legal Aid contracted with outside law firms to provide legal services.\n\nA focus of Legal Aid in its beginning years was working for passage of legislation aimed at unconscionable practices of businesses that preyed on low-income persons. Legal Aid's first annual report refers to a measure to regulate moneylenders who were charging poor people interest rates of 60% to 200%. A Legal Aid trustee was the principal author of a 1910 bill to create the first municipal court in Ohio. Creation of that court eventually led to the demise of the exploitive Justice of the Peace courts in the state.\n\nAlso in 1910, Legal Aid secured passage of a bill that led to creation of the world's first small claims court. The small claims court was widely imitated across the country. In 1913, Legal Aid became a charter agency of the Community Fund (now known as United Way). Under the guidance of Claude Clarke in 1919, Legal Aid saw an increase in revenue and diversity of cases, as well as the creation of beneficial relationships with the city's social welfare agencies. Towards the end of Clarke s leadership, eventually concluding in 1959, The Committee on Organization and Function urged a new plan of operation. In the early 1960s, Legal Aid stopped retaining outside lawyers and established its own staff. It became a grantee of the Office of Economic Opportunity predecessor of the Legal Services Corporation in 1966.\n\nIn 1966, under the leadership of then director and later Common Pleas Court Judge Burt Griffin, Legal Aid established five offices in low-income Cleveland neighborhoods. In 1968, C. Lyonel Jones took over as director and held that position until 2005. By 1970, some 30,000 low-income residents were being serviced by 66 Legal Aid attorneys in civil, criminal and juvenile cases. \n\nLegal Aid has helped to eliminate racial discrimination in site selection for public housing and promotion of Cleveland police and firefighters, blocked termination of SSI and Social Security disability benefits without proper evidence, improved area jails and mental hospitals, established the right to counsel in commitment proceedings and misdemeanor cases, expanded vocational educational opportunities for Vietnam War Veterans and obtained benefits for victims of industrial air pollution. In 1977, Legal Aid prevailed in a landmark U.S. Supreme Court decision on the rights of an extended family to live together in Moore v. City of East Cleveland.\n\nToday, Legal Aid is led by executive director Colleen Cotter. Legal Aid annually handles over 8,500 civil cases that help more than 21,000 persons. Legal Aid's 55 attorneys now operate out of its downtown Cleveland office and three offices located in Painesville, Jefferson, and Elyria, Ohio. The organization serves over 300,000 low-income residents of five counties.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23633659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23633659", "title": "Legal history of income tax in the United States", "text": "Legal history of income tax in the United States\n\nTaxation of income in the United States has been practised since colonial times. Some southern states imposed their own taxes on income from property, both before and after Independence. The Constitution empowered the federal government to raise taxes at a uniform rate throughout the nation, and required that \"direct taxes\" be imposed only in proportion to the Census population of each state. Federal income tax was first introduced under the Revenue Act of 1861 to help pay for the Civil War. It was renewed in later years and reformed in 1894 in the form of the Wilson-Gorman tariff.\n\nLegal challenges centered on whether the income tax then in force constituted a \"direct tax\". In the \"Springer v. United States\" case of 1881, the Supreme Court upheld the tax regime then in force. An 1894 statute was ruled unconstitutional in the case of \"Pollock v. Farmers' Loan and Trust Company\". In response, the Sixteenth Amendment, proposed in 1909 and becoming law in 1913, cancelled the \"apportionment\" requirement for income taxes. Federal income tax was thereupon reintroduced in the Revenue Act of 1913. In the case of \"Brushaber v. Union Pacific Railroad Company\" (1916), the 1913 Act was ruled to be constitutional. A separate excise tax was also imposed on corporations.\n\nSubsequent legal actions were concerned with what should be counted as \"income\" under the 1913 Act. In \"Eisner v. Macomber\" (1920), the Supreme Court ruled that proportionate stock dividends were not taxable as income, on the grounds that the dividend income was not \"severable\" from the capital holding from which it was derived. Later decisions, however, have tended to limit this view of \"severability,\" and to uphold the federal statutes as exertions of the power of Congress to tax.\n\nThe first attempt to tax income in the United States was in 1643 when several colonies instituted a \"faculties and abilities\" tax. Tax collectors would literally go door to door and ask if the individual had income during the year. If so, the tax was computed on the spot. The income tax raised little revenue, and was viewed as a supplement to more traditional forms of property taxation.\n\nArticle I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the United States Constitution (the \"Taxing and Spending Clause\"), specifies Congress's power to impose \"Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,\" but Article I, Section 8 requires that, \"Duties, Imposts and Excises shall be uniform throughout the United States.\"\n\nIn addition, the Constitution specifically limited Congress' ability to impose direct taxes, by requiring that direct taxes be imposed in proportion to each state's census population. It was thought that head taxes and property taxes (slaves could be taxed as either or both) were likely to be abused, and that they bore no relation to the activities in which the federal government had a legitimate interest. The fourth clause of section 9 therefore specifies that, \"No Capitation, or other direct, Tax shall be laid, unless in Proportion to the Census or enumeration herein before directed to be taken.\"\n\nTaxation was also the subject of Federalist No. 33 penned secretly by the Federalist Alexander Hamilton under the pseudonym Publius. In it, he explains that the wording of the \"Necessary and Proper\" clause should serve as guidelines for the legislation of laws regarding taxation. The legislative branch is to be the judge, but any abuse of those powers of judging can be overturned by the people, whether as states or as a larger group.\n\nIn the early 18th century and well into the 19th century, a number of the southern colonies and states adopted an income tax modeled on the tax instituted in England. The British theory was that you tax the income from property, and not the property itself; thus, sales of property were not subject to taxation.\n\nIn order to help pay for its war effort in the American Civil War, the United States government imposed its first personal income tax, on August 5, 1861, as part of the Revenue Act of 1861. Tax rates were 3% on income exceeding $600 and less than $10,000, and 5% on income exceeding $10,000. This tax was repealed and replaced by another income tax in the Revenue Act of 1862.\n\nAfter the war when the need for federal revenues decreased, Congress (in the Revenue Act of 1870) let the tax law expire in 1873. However, one of the challenges to the validity of this tax reached the United States Supreme Court in 1880. In \"Springer v. United States\", the taxpayer contended that the income tax on his professional earnings and interest income on bonds violated the \"direct tax\" requirement of the Constitution. The Supreme Court concluded that the tax of which Mr. Springer complained (i.e. a tax on professional earnings and on interest from bonds) was within the category of an excise or duty, and was neither a capitation tax (based on population) nor a property tax. The court also concluded that direct taxes, within the meaning of the Constitution, were only capitation taxes and taxes on real estate.\n\nIn 1894, a Democratic-led Congress passed the Wilson-Gorman tariff. This imposed the first peacetime income tax. The rate was 2% on income over $4000, which meant fewer than 10% of households would pay any. The purpose of the income tax was to make up for revenue that would be lost by tariff reductions. This was a controversial provision, and the law actually passed without the signature of President Grover Cleveland.\n\nOnce again, a taxpayer challenged the legality of the income tax. In \"Pollock v. Farmers' Loan and Trust Company\" (1895), Charles Pollock sued the corporation in which he owned stock, contending that the corporation should never have paid the income tax because the tax was unconstitutional. In this case, the tax was paid on income from land. Pollock argued that since a tax on real estate is a direct tax, a tax on the income from such property should be a direct tax as well. Because the Constitution prohibited a \"direct tax\" unless the tax is apportioned, Pollock argued that the unapportioned income tax should be declared unconstitutional. The \"direct tax\" argument had also been used by Springer in 1880, but now the Court focused more closely on the wording in the Constitution. The provisions were Article I, Section 8, Clause 1, which provides that \"all Duties, Imposts and Excises shall be uniform throughout the United States\" and Article I, Section 9, Clause 4, which provides: \"No Capitation, or other direct, Tax shall be laid, unless in Proportion to the Census or Enumeration herein before directed to be taken.\n\nIn effect, the latter clause required any \"direct tax\" to be based on a census. For example, if the government desired to raise $10 million and New York had 20% of the total U.S. population at that time, then New York would be required to raise $2 million. If New York had 1 million residents, each resident would owe $2 in taxes. Obviously, a tax based on income could not achieve such proportionality, since incomes differed across individuals.\n\nThis time, the Court stated that \"although there have been, from time to time, intimations that there might be some tax which was not a direct tax, nor included under the words 'duties, imposts, and excises,' such a tax, for more than 100 years of national existence, has as yet remained undiscovered, notwithstanding the stress of particular circumstances has invited thorough investigation into sources of revenue.\" In other words, the federal taxing power consists of four categories: direct taxes, duties, imposts and excises (with the latter three categories sometimes called simply \"indirect taxes\").\n\nIn a 5-4 decision on April 8, 1895, the Court ruled that the unapportioned income tax on income from land was unconstitutional. On May 20, 1895, the Court expanded its holding to rule that the unapportioned income tax on income from personal property (such as interest income and dividend income) was also unconstitutional. This decision partially overturned the ruling in \"Springer v. United States\".\n\nThe Court held that taxes on the rents or income of real estate, on personal property, or on the income of personal property (e.g. interest and dividends), were direct taxes within the meaning of the Constitution, and therefore had to be apportioned. In \"Springer\", the Court had held that direct taxes within the meaning of the Constitution were only capitation taxes and taxes on real estate. Therefore in \"Pollock\", the Court overruled a portion of the \"Springer\" decision by expanding the definition of direct taxes. The portion of the \"Springer\" decision that was not overruled by the Court in \"Pollock\" was the portion of the holding that applied to taxes on professional earnings. Since apportionment of income taxes is impractical, the Court's decision had the effect of prohibiting a federal tax on income from property. The power to tax real and personal property, or that such was a direct tax, was not denied by the Constitution. Due to the political difficulties of taxing individual wages without taxing income from property, a federal income tax was impractical from the time of the \"Pollock\" decision until the time of ratification of the Sixteenth Amendment (below).\n\nThus, the 1894 tax law was ruled unconstitutional and was effectively repealed.\n\nIn 1909, fifteen years after \"Pollock\", Congress took two actions to deal with their increasing revenue needs.\n\n1. Corporate excise tax. First, Congress passed a corporate excise tax. The amount of the excise was set at 1% of each corporation's income exceeding $5,000. In 1911, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld this corporate excise as constitutional in \"Flint v. Stone Tracy Company\", in which the court ruled that the tax was an excise upon the privilege of doing business in corporate form.\n\n2. Sixteenth Amendment. More importantly, in 1909 Congress proposed the Sixteenth Amendment. This amendment reads as follows:\n\nThe Congress shall have power to lay and collect taxes on incomes, from whatever source derived, without apportionment among the several States, and without regard to any census or enumeration.\n\nBy February 1913, the required three-fourths of the states ratified the Sixteenth Amendment, thus adding the amendment to the constitution.\n\nLater that year, Congress enacted the Revenue Act of 1913. The tax ranged from 1% on income exceeding $3,000 to 7% on incomes exceeding $500,000.\n\nSubsequently, the U.S. Supreme Court in 1916 upheld the constitutionality of the Revenue Act of 1913 in the case of Brushaber v. Union Pacific Railroad Company, . The Court held that the Act was constitutional based on the following: 1) there was power by virtue of the Sixteenth Amendment to levy the tax without apportionment; 2) the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment is not a limitation upon Congress's taxing power; and 3) the statute did not violate the uniformity clause of Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution.\n\nThe term \"income\" is not defined in the Internal Revenue Code. The closest that Congress comes to defining income is found in the definition of \"gross income\" in Internal Revenue Code section 61, which is largely unchanged from its predecessor, the original Section 22(a) definition of income in the Revenue Act of 1913:\n\nSec. 22(a). \"Gross income\" includes gains, profits, and income derived from salaries, wages or compensation for personal service (including personal service as an officer or employee of a State, or any political subdivision thereof, or any agency or instrumentality of any one or more of the foregoing), of whatever kind and in whatever form paid, or from professions, vocations, trades, businesses, commerce, or sales, or dealings in property, whether real or personal, growing out of the ownership or use of or interest in such property; also from interest, rent, dividends, securities, or the transaction of any business carried on for gain or profit, or gains or profits and income derived from any source whatsoever.\n\nOne of the earliest attempts to define income occurred in the case of Eisner v. Macomber, in which the U.S. Supreme Court addressed the taxability of a proportionate stock dividend (as opposed to a monetary or cash dividend on stock). This case provided the Court with a forum to try to interpret exactly what Congress intended to include in the sparse Section 22 definition of \"income.\" This was not the first time the Court had addressed the issue: the case had been argued in the previous term of the Court, and was being reargued with additional oral and written briefs.\n\nThe Court stated that it needed to examine the boundaries of the definition of income for several reasons. First, the Revenue Act of 1916 expressly stated that a \"stock dividend shall be considered income, to the amount of the cash value.\" In a previous case, Towne v. Eisner, the Court had ruled, however, that a stock dividend made in 1914 against surplus earned prior to January 1, 1913 was not taxable under the Act of October 3, 1913, which provided that net income included \"dividends.\" The district court in that case had noted that: \"It is manifest that the stock dividend in question cannot be reached by the Income Tax Act, and could not, even though Congress expressly declared it to be taxable as income, unless it is in fact income.\" The Court had held, however, that the stock dividend was the equivalent of income. The Supreme Court in \"Towne v. Eisner\" then reversed the lower court, finding that the dividend was not income because the \"proportional interest of each shareholder remains the same ... and the stockholder is no richer than they were before.\"\n\nAs a result, the Court decided in \"Eisner v. Macomber\" to address the larger constitutional question of whether or not a stock dividend was gross income within the meaning of \"income\" as used in the Sixteenth Amendment. As noted by the Court:\n\nIn order, therefore, that the clauses cited from Article 1 of the Constitution may have proper force and effect, save only as modified by the Amendment, and that the latter also may have proper effect it becomes essential to distinguish between what is and what is not \"income\" as the term is there used; and to apply the distinction, as cases arise, according to truth and substance, without regard to form. Congress cannot by any definition it may adopt conclude the matter, since it cannot by legislation alter the Constitution, from which it derives its power to legislate, and within whose limitations alone that power can be lawfully exercised.\n\nAs a starting point, the Court defined income succinctly by reference to the dictionary and to two earlier cases as follows: \"Income may be defined as the gain derived from capital, from labor, or from both combined, provided it be understood to include profit gained through a sale or conversion of capital assets.\" The Court then went into a lengthy explanation as to how this definition applies to a stock dividend. In the end, the Court decided that the stock dividend was not taxable, because it was merely a book adjustment and was not \"severable\" from the underlying stock. In other words, income would not be realized until the stock itself was sold.\n\nA number of commentators contended that the Court in Eisner v. Macomber had gone too far in overturning a statute taxing stock dividends (the 1916 Act) that many perceived as being fair and equitable. Henry Simons, a noted tax scholar of the time, in his treatise, observed the following:\n\nActually, an utterly trivial issue was made the occasion for injecting into our fundamental law a mass of rhetorical confusion which no orderly mind can contemplate respectfully, and for giving constitutional status to naive and ridiculous notions about the nature of income and the rationale for income taxes.\n\nDespite this criticism, a number of decisions subsequent to \"Eisner v. Macomber\" relied on this simplistic definition of income. This in turn led to the question of whether or not this formulation was an \"exclusive\" definition of income, with any income not clearly covered by its terms deemed to be nontaxable.\n\nIn \"Hawkins v. Commissioner\", the Internal Revenue Service argued that compensatory damages received by the taxpayer by way of settlement of a suit for injury to personal reputation and health caused by defamatory statements constituting libel or slander were taxable. While noting that \"there may be cases in which taxable income will be judicially found although outside the precise scope of the description already given,\" the Board of Tax Appeals concluded that such damages would not be taxable. The Board noted that the injury was \"wholly personal and nonpecuniary,\" and that the remedy simply attempts to make the individual whole. Thus, even though the payment was \"severable\" and lead to a demonstrable increase in net wealth, the Board nonetheless concluded that the payment was not income.\n\nOther commentators noted that if \"severability\" were to be considered a touchstone for the definition of income, it followed that a number of sales or exchanges of property that did not involve immediate realization through severance would not be taxable. Realizing that the \"one size fits all\" definition of income in \"Eisner v. Macomber\" was too broad, the U.S. Supreme Court reconsidered the idea of severability in Helvering v. Bruun. In this case, the Court addressed the question of whether or not a lessor recognizes income from the receipt of a leasehold improvement made by a lessee during the lease when the improvement reverts to the lessor at the end of the lease. In ruling that the value of the improvement was taxable, the Court noted that not every gain need be realized in cash to be taxable. There was a clear increase in the taxpayer's wealth, and this increase did not have to be severed to recognize such increase as income for federal income tax purposes.\n\nIn subsequent cases, the U.S. Supreme Court distanced itself further from the \"Eisner v. Macomber\" definition of income and dependence of that definition on the concept of severability. For example, in \"Commissioner v. Glenshaw Glass Co.\", the Court ruled that punitive damages recovered under a violation of anti-trust laws were included in gross income, and that the language of Section 22 (now Internal Revenue Code Section 61) clearly showed the intent of Congress to exert \"the full measure of its taxing power.\" In referencing its previous definition of income in \"Eisner v. Macomber\", the Court noted that \"in distinguishing gain from capital, the definition had served a useful purpose. But it was not meant to provide a touchstone to all future gross income questions.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "52724191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52724191", "title": "List of Muslim League breakaway groups", "text": "List of Muslim League breakaway groups\n\nSince India and Pakistan gained independence in 1947, the All-India Muslim League and its successor Muslim League has seen a steady number of splits and breakaway factions. Some of the breakaway organisations have thrived as independent parties, some have become defunct, while others have merged with the parent party or other political parties. The All-India Muslim League was dissolved in 1947 after the partition. Muslim League (Pakistan) was dissolved in 1958 (by martial law). \n"}
{"id": "45331707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45331707", "title": "List of courts which publish audio or video of arguments", "text": "List of courts which publish audio or video of arguments\n"}
{"id": "25441443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25441443", "title": "List of treaties of the Ottoman Empire", "text": "List of treaties of the Ottoman Empire\n\nBelow is a list of major treaties of the Ottoman Empire.\n\n"}
{"id": "41139516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41139516", "title": "Mitzvah Day International", "text": "Mitzvah Day International\n\nMitzvah Day International is an annual day of faith-based social action that takes place in November each year, primarily in the United Kingdom. On Mitzvah Day each year, community groups and individuals undertake a range of volunteer projects for those in need in their local community. Organizations register with Mitzvah Day, which in turn helps match volunteers with local projects. The objective is to encourage people to give their time, rather than their money, to worthwhile local causes, whilst also creating deeper linkages within communities and supporting charities. In 2013, close to 30,000 people participated in Mitzvah Day around the world.\nThough based within the UK's Jewish Community, Mitzvah Day traditionally marks the first day of UK National Inter Faith Week, and as a result has expanded to include participants from other faith communities as well.\n'Mitzvah' is the Hebrew biblical term for 'deed' or 'commandment', which has come to mean 'good deed' or 'charitable act' in contemporary English.\n\nThe 2017 date is November 19.\n\nMitzvah Day International was founded by Laura Marks in 2005, who, upon returning to her native UK from a period spent in Los Angeles, decided to bring the 'Mitzvah Day' concept she became familiar with through the Temple Israel of Hollywood synagogue back to the UK. Though the Mitzvah Day she was familiar with (and most Mitzvah Days in the US) was based around a single community or congregation, her concept for Mitzvah Day in the UK was to unite Jewish community and other groups around a single coordinated day of social action across the country. Mitzvah Day was originally associated with the Jewish Community Centre for London, and became registered as an independent charity in the United Kingdom in 2008.\n\nMitzvah Day has been publicly endorsed by many public figures in the United Kingdom, including UK Prime Minister David Cameron, Deputy Prime Minister and Leader of the Liberal Democrats Nick Clegg, Leader of the Labour Party Ed Miliband Former UK Prime Minister Tony Blair, London Mayor Boris Johnson, Chief Rabbi of the United Kingdom Jonathan Sacks, and The Archbishop of Canterbury. It won a Prime Minister's Big Society Award in 2011\n\nHeadquartered in London, UK, the event has since spread to include participation from many international partners, primarily in Europe, North America, Israel, Australia, Brazil, and Southern Africa. In 2012, the name of the organization officially changed from 'Mitzvah Day' to 'Mitzvah Day International' to reflect the growing participation of community groups outside the UK.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52109843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52109843", "title": "Nairobi International Convention on the Removal of Wrecks", "text": "Nairobi International Convention on the Removal of Wrecks\n\nThe Nairobi International Convention on the Removal of Wrecks is a 2007 treaty of the International Maritime Organization (IMO).\n\nThe purpose of the convention is to establish uniform rules for the prompt and effective removal of shipwrecks located in the exclusive economic zone (EEZ) of a state that may be hazardous to navigation or to the environment. The convention gives states authority to remove wrecks from the portion of its EEZ that is within international waters without any implication that the state is claiming sovereignty over that area.\n\nThe convention was concluded at Nairobi, Kenya, on 18 May 2007. It entered into force on 14 April 2015 after being ratified by ten states.\n\nAs of November 2018, the Convention has been ratified by 41 states.\n\n"}
{"id": "30641370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30641370", "title": "Net.wars", "text": "Net.wars\n\nNet.wars is a non-fiction book by journalist Wendy M. Grossman about conflict and controversy among stakeholders on the Internet. It was published by NYU Press in 1997, and was simultaneously made available free as an online version. The book discusses conflicts which arose during the growth of the Internet from 1993 through 1997, labeled by Grossman as \"boundary disputes\". These disputes deal with issues including privacy, encryption, copyright, censorship, sex, and pornography. The author discusses history of organizations in their attempts to enforce their intellectual property on the Internet, against individuals who attempted to reveal confidential materials asserting it was in the public interest. Grossman frames these disputes with respect to overarching rights of freedom of speech and the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nThe book received a positive reception, and was described by \"Technology Review\" as \"one of the first comprehensive reports on the upheavals underway in cyberspace.\" \"Publishers Weekly\" praised the depth of discussion in the book, and \"Library Journal\" commented positively on the history and background imparted. \"New Scientist\" gave the book a favorable review, commenting, \"Here at last is a sensible, thought-provoking and informative book about the complexity and challenges of the Net.\" \"Reason\" magazine observed, \"Grossman has written an intriguing account of the Internet's partial fulfillment of its seemingly limitless promise.\"\n\nPrior to the book's publication, the author was recognized in 1996 with an award from the American Society of Journalists and Authors for an article in \"Wired\" magazine about conflict on the Internet. \"Net.wars\" was published in book format by NYU Press in 1997, in addition to an edition in a computer file format. NYU Press made the text of the book available for free via its website.\n\nThe book discusses the changes online citizens saw take place on the Internet during the period in the intervening years between 1993 and 1997. Grossman labels the conflict which took place during this time as \"boundary disputes\". These \"boundary disputes\" included issues involving privacy, encryption, copyright, censorship, sex, and pornography. She describes these conflicts as taking place, \"along the border between cyberspace and real life\". Grossman attributes this conflict to \"the Net's convulsions over the years 1993 to 1996, as it tried to assimilate huge numbers of new users who didn't share the culture that had been developing over the previous decade\". The author acknowledges that she is a \"Netizen\", and questions her own objective stance due to this involvement.\n\nGrossman informs the reader that she appreciates \"the fact that in this age of polite political correctness there is a place in the world where people feel free to speak their minds, even offensively\". She gives an analogy for the reader regarding those who would discuss and comment on the phenomenon of the Internet-based community without prior experience: \"Journalists who don't use the Net themselves routinely make such egregious technological and cultural errors that you can only compare the results to what would happen if they were assigned to write about the interstate highway system based on their experiences at sea... [I]f the police told you that prostitutes routinely and openly solicited truckers and other visitors to roadside rest areas and that therefore they were risky places for families to visit, you would probably believe them and write the story... At the same time, after a while it's easy to lose perspective and forget that behavior which is common and tolerated on the Net seems shocking to newcomers.\"\n\nThe author states her desire for the Internet to remain an open community, \"I would like to see the freedom of the old net.culture survive in the face of the many competing commercial and regulatory interests that might prefer to limit its reach and openness.\" The book delves into specific examples of organizations which attempted to enforce their perceived intellectual property from being distributed to websites on the Internet, as balanced against the ability of people participating in an online community to bring previously confidential material to light whilst stating it serves the public interest to do so. She recounts activism by Internet users against the Communications Decency Act, which was ultimately deemed unconstitutional by the Supreme Court of the United States. Grossman includes a discussion of participation in online discussion on the Internet with respect to the rights of freedom of speech and the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nWriting for the \"Technology Review\" of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Wade Roush called the book, \"one of the first comprehensive reports on the upheavals underway in cyberspace.\" Roush commented on the author's writing style, \"Grossman writes plainly yet entertainingly, providing a pleasant antidote to the breathless rhetoric one finds in many books and magazines devoted to computer culture.\" The review concluded, \"But what ties the book together is Grossman's demonstration that the boundary disputes have more to do with power than with decency or etiquette. The Net gives all its users a vastly increased power to communicate. How much of this power, she asks, will average users be allowed to keep?\"\n\nDonna Seaman of \"Booklist\" wrote that Grossman, \"vividly describes the virtual realm as a place of interconnecting communities every bit as complicated, exciting, and dangerous as any city.\" Seaman concluded, \"As Grossman relates Net lore and history, she traces its transformation from a textual, academic medium into a graphics-heavy promotional bonanza, a development that has caused the online population to double over the past three years to nearly 60 million users.\" In a review for \"\", C. Koch characterized the work, \"This book is in the form of a series of explorations of various instances of such problems and how they can be seen to relate to matters of undesirable curtailment of free speech and to the more positive potential of the Net to foster new Net communities.\" Koch wrote of the author's writing style, \"The book is a bit rambling in style, but those committed to the value of open Net community may find it pleasantly reflective.\"\n\n\"Publishers Weekly\" reviewed the book and recommended it for multiple types of readers, \"Both newbies (newcomers to the Internet) and Netizens (old-timers) will find challenges and rewards in this witty, knowledgeable and timely report from the electronic front.\" \"Publishers Weekly\" wrote positively of the amount of detail included in the book's discussion, \"Journalist Grossman covers in considerable depth the battles now raging over the First Amendment rights, security, privacy and general standards of conduct in cyberspace.\" \"Library Journal\" wrote of the success of the author's argumentation, \"Grossman sets out to answer questions about the future of the Internet and how it will be regulated. She does a fine job of explaining the issues and the background behind online controversies\". \"Library Journal\" commented on Grossman's viewpoint, \"Her approach is one of informed skepticism\".\nHarold Thimbleby of \"New Scientist\" gave the book a positive review, writing, \"Here at last is a sensible, thought-provoking and informative book about the complexity and challenges of the Net.\" He compared Grossman's writing to other works on the subject matter, \"Most books are too enthusiastic about the technology, too American, too Utopian, too get-rich-quick—or just out of date. In \"Net.wars\" we have a good, profoundly challenging book, which rises above parochialism. It is full of insights—as much into bulletin boards as sexual stereotyping, rights to free speech and establishing global copyright.\" Thimbleby concluded, \"Everyone, particularly police, lawyers, teachers, parents and scientists, can usefully read this book and consider what the Net really means for us all.\"\n\nIn a review for \"Reason\", Nick Gillespie described the book as, \"a nuanced map to the latest 'place' to inspire grand utopian thinking: the Internet, that ethereal and increasingly important worldwide network of computer networks.\" Gillespie wrote positively of the author's breadth of knowledge and experience about the subject matter, \"An American journalist living in London, Grossman brings a wealth of professional and personal experience to the material—and a clarity of style and analysis that is a welcome relief from both the hyperbolic prose of many Net boosters and the overwrought jeremiads of cyberphobes.\" His review concluded, \"the great virtue of net.wars is its recognition that cyberspace's utopian potential—its ability to enrich existing real communities while creating new, virtual ones—is directly tied to its ability to change, grow, and make itself useful to its inhabitants. In showing how that process works in both historical and cultural terms, Grossman has written an intriguing account of the Internet's partial fulfillment of its seemingly limitless promise.\"\n\n\"The Village Voice\" pointed out the decision of publisher NYU Press to publish the book's contents online, noting, \"Risking profits for the sake of progress, NYU Press has decided to publish journalist Wendy Grossman's canny new book, net.wars, simultaneously in print and in a free online version ... For NYU, it's a big gamble for publicity.\" The review observed that the nature of the book's format was appropriate for online distribution, \"the online design of net.wars points to an even more dramatic literary evolution. Net.wars, with over 500 hypertext links, is truly more Web site than book, and it unquestionably belongs online.\" In its review of her book, \"Kirkus Reviews\" pointed out a paradox regarding one of Grossman's proposed solutions to issues of encroachment upon Internet freedoms. \"Kirkus Reviews\" noted, \"Unfortunately, the solutions that Grossman suggests, while more politically moderate than those suggested by others, seem to subvert the true purpose of the Internet. She suggests smaller, more manageable virtual communities, whereas the Internet, in theory, is supposed to link all corners of the world.\" The review concluded, \"At least Grossman is offering solutions, however, which is what distinguishes \"net.wars\" from most contribution on this seemingly inexhaustible topic.\"\n\n\nBook reviews\n\nRelated\n\n"}
{"id": "24709592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24709592", "title": "Northwestern point of the Lake of the Woods", "text": "Northwestern point of the Lake of the Woods\n\nThe northwesternmost point of the Lake of the Woods was a critical landmark for the boundary between U.S. territory and the British possessions to the north. This point was referred to in the Treaty of Paris in 1783 and in later treaties including the Treaty of 1818. This point lies at the corner of the Northwest Angle of Minnesota and is thus the northernmost point in the lower 48 United States. After Canadian Confederation, the point became the basis for the border between Manitoba and Ontario.\n\nThe \"northwesternmost point\" of the lake had not yet been identified when it was referenced in treaties defining the border between the US and Britain; it was simply an easily described abstraction based on a large landmark. The best maps at the time of the original negotiation depicted the lake as a simple oval. However, although the southern portion of the lake is easily mapped, to the north it becomes a complex tangle of bays, peninsulas, and islands, with many adjacent bodies of water separated or connected by narrow isthmuses or straits. An 1822 survey crew declared the referenced point impossible to determine. In 1824, British explorer David Thompson was hired to identify it. Thompson mapped the lake and found four possibilities, but did not conclusively declare one location.\n\nIn 1825, British astronomer Dr. Johann Tiarks surveyed the lake. Tiarks identified two possibilities for the northwesternmost point on the lake, based on Thompson's maps: the Angle Inlet and Rat Portage. To determine which point was the most northwestern, he drew a line from each point in the southwest-northeast direction. If the line intersected the lake at any point, it was not the most northwestern point, as shown in the example diagram here. Tiarks determined that the only such line that did not intersect the lake was at the edge of a pond on the Angle Inlet. (A 1940 academic study documents this point as being in the immediate vicinity of (NAD83).)\n\nUnder the 1783 treaty, the international border would have run due west from this point to the Mississippi River. As this was determined to be geographically impossible (the Mississippi begins further south), under the 1818 treaty the international border instead ran from the point determined by Tiarks, to the 49th parallel. (It was not known at the time whether that was to the north or – in fact – the south.) From there it ran due west to the Rocky Mountains (and later, the Pacific coast).\n\nTiarks' point, however, created problems, because the 1818 treaty called for the border to run directly north–south from it. South of that point, the channel of the Northwest Angle Inlet meandered east and west, crossing the border five times, thereby creating two small enclaves of water areas totaling two and a half acres that belonged to the United States but were surrounded by Canadian waters. A 1925 treaty addressed this by adopting the southernmost of the points where the channel and the border intersected – approximately south of Tiarks' point – as the new \"northwesternmost point\". The new northwesternmost point thus became , based on the NAD27 datum, which is equivalent to under the modern NAD83 datum.\n"}
{"id": "14318861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14318861", "title": "Protected computer", "text": "Protected computer\n\nProtected computers is a term used in Title 18, Section 1030 of the United States Code, (the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act) which prohibits a number of different kinds of conduct, generally involving unauthorized access to, or damage to the data stored on, \"protected computers\". The statute, as amended by the National Information Infrastructure Protection Act of 1996, defines \"protected computers\" (formerly known as \"federal interest computers\") as:\n\na computer—\n(A) exclusively for the use of a financial institution or the United States Government, or, in the case of a computer not exclusively for such use, used by or for a financial institution or the United States Government and the conduct constituting the offense affects that use by or for the financial institution or the Government; or\n(B) which is used in interstate or foreign commerce or communication, including a computer located outside the United States that is used in a manner that affects interstate or foreign commerce or communication of the United States.\n\nThe law prohibits unauthorized obtaining of \"information from any protected computer if the conduct involved an interstate or foreign communication,\" and makes it a felony to intentionally transmit malware to a protected computer if more than $5000 in damage (such as to the integrity of data) were to result.\n\nThe U. S. Justice Department explains:\nIn the 1994 amendments \"(of the National Information Infrastructure Act)\", the reach of this subsection \"(E. Subsection 1030(a)(5))\" was broadened by replacing the term \"federal interest computer\" with the term \"computer used in interstate commerce or communications.\" The latter term is broader because the old definition of \"federal interest computer\" in 18 U.S.C. § 1030(e)(2)(B) covered a computer \"which is one of two or more computers used in committing the offense, not all of which are located in the same State.\" This meant that a hacker who attacked other computers in the same state was not subject to federal jurisdiction, even when these actions may have severely affected interstate or foreign commerce. For example, individuals who attack telephone switches may disrupt interstate and foreign calls. The 1994 change remedied that defect.\n\nHowever, the definition of federal interest computer actually covered more than simply interstate activity. More specifically, 18 U.S.C. § 1030(e)(2)(A) covered, generically, computers belonging to the United States Government or financial institutions, or those used by such entities on a non-exclusive basis if the conduct constituting the offense affected the Government's operation or the financial institution's operation of such computer. By changing § 1030(a)(5) from \"federal interest computer\" to \"computer used in interstate commerce or communications,\" Congress may have inadvertently eliminated federal protection for those government and financial institution computers not used in interstate communications. For example, the integrity and availability of classified information contained in an intrastate local area network may not have been protected under the 1994 version of 18 U.S.C. § 1030(a)(5), although its confidentiality continued to be protected under 18 U.S.C. § 1030(a)(1). To remedy this situation in the 1996 Act, 18 U.S.C. § 1030(a)(5) was redrafted to cover any \"protected computer,\" a new term defined in § 1030(e)(2) and used throughout the new statute--in § 1030(a)(5), as well as in §§ 1030(a)(2), (a)(4), and the new (a)(7). The definition of \"protected computer\" includes government computers, financial institution computers, and any computer \"which is used in interstate or foreign commerce or communications.\"\n\nThis broad definition addresses the original concerns regarding intrastate \"phone phreakers\" (i.e., hackers who penetrate telecommunications computers). It also specifically includes those computers used in \"foreign\" communications. With the continually expanding global information infrastructure, with numerous instances of international hacking, and with the growing possibility of increased global industrial espionage, it is important that the United States have jurisdiction over international computer crime cases. Arguably, the old definition of \"federal interest computer\" contained in 18 U.S.C. § 1030(e)(2) conferred such jurisdiction because the requirement that the computers used in committing the offense not all be located in the same state might be satisfied if one computer were located overseas. As a general rule, however, Congress's laws have been presumed to be domestic in scope only, absent a specific grant of extraterritorial jurisdiction. E.E.O.C. v. Arabian American Oil Co., 499 U.S. 244 (1991). To ensure clarity, the statute was amended to reference international communications explicitly.\n\n"}
{"id": "29744722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29744722", "title": "Rajender v. University of Minnesota", "text": "Rajender v. University of Minnesota\n\nShyamala Rajender v. University of Minnesota was a landmark class action lawsuit dealing with sexual discrimination at an American university. The case was filed on September 5, 1973 by Shyamala Rajender, an assistant professor of chemistry at the University of Minnesota. Rajender accused the university of engaging in employment discrimination on the basis of sex and national origin after she was turned down for a tenure-track position despite being recommended for the position by several university committees. The suit was certified as a class action by the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota in 1978. After eleven weeks of trial, the suit was settled in 1980 by a consent decree. Rajender received $100,000 and Judge Miles Lord enjoined the university from discriminating against women on the basis of sex. Rajender's attorneys were awarded approximately $2 million in fees.\n"}
{"id": "54362192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54362192", "title": "Relinquishment of United States nationality", "text": "Relinquishment of United States nationality\n\nRelinquishment of United States nationality is the process under federal law by which a U.S. citizen or national voluntarily and intentionally gives up that status and becomes an alien with respect to the United States. In U.S. law, renunciation of United States citizenship is a legal term encompassing two specific procedures for giving up U.S. citizenship by swearing an oath of renunciation before a designated U.S. government official, but the five other acts by which an American may give up U.S. citizenship are sometimes also informally referred to as \"renunciation of citizenship\". Relinquishment is distinct from denaturalization, which in U.S. law refers solely to cancellation of illegally procured naturalization.\n\nPeople who relinquish U.S. citizenship generally have lived abroad for many years, and nearly all of them are citizens of another country. Unlike most other countries, the U.S. does not prohibit its citizens from making themselves stateless, but the State Department strongly recommends against it, and very few choose to do so. It is usually impossible to relinquish citizenship while in U.S. territory, and courts have rejected arguments that U.S. state citizenship or Puerto Rican citizenship give an ex-U.S. citizen the right to enter or reside in the U.S. without the permission of the U.S. government. Like any other foreigner or stateless person, an ex-U.S. citizen requires permission from the U.S. government, such as a U.S. visa or visa waiver, in order to visit the United States.\n\nRelinquishment of U.S. citizenship remains uncommon in absolute terms, but has become more frequent than relinquishment of the citizenship of most other developed countries. Between five and six thousand U.S. citizens relinquished citizenship each year in 2015 and 2016, compared to estimates of anywhere between three million and nine million U.S. citizens residing abroad. The number of relinquishments is up sharply from lows in the 1990s and 2000s, though only about three times as high as in the 1970s. Lawyers believe this growth is mostly driven by accidental Americans who grew up abroad and only became aware of their U.S. citizenship and the tax liabilities for citizens abroad due to ongoing publicity surrounding the 2010 Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act.\n\nAs a result of these court rulings and policy changes, performance of a potentially expatriating act no longer creates a risk of unintentional loss of U.S. citizenship. Instead, an individual who commits a potentially expatriating act may decide whether to retain or relinquish U.S. citizenship. In the latter case, the individual may apply to the State Department for a Certificate of Loss of Nationality. Between 2010 and 2015 that began to become a difficult process with high barriers, including nearly year-long waitlists for appointments and the world's most expensive administrative fee, as well as complicated tax treatment. Legal scholars state that such barriers may constitute a breach of the United States' obligations under international law, and foreign legislatures have called upon the U.S. government to eliminate the fees, taxes, and other requirements, particularly with regard to accidental Americans who have few genuine links to the United States.\n\nIn general, \"loss of citizenship\" is a blanket term which may include both voluntary (citizen-initiated) and involuntary (government-initiated) termination of citizenship, though it is not always easy to make a clean distinction between the two categories: automatic loss of citizenship due to an initial action performed voluntarily could be seen either as \"voluntary loss\" or \"involuntary loss\". Citizen-initiated termination of citizenship may be referred to as \"renunciation\", \"relinquishment\", or \"expatriation\", while the term \"denationalization\" refers to government-initiated termination.\n\nIn U.S. law, \"relinquishment\" and \"renunciation\" are terms used in Subchapter III, Part 3 of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (). The term \"expatriation\" was used in the initial version of that act (, 268) up until the Immigration and Nationality Act Amendments of 1986, when it was replaced by \"relinquishment\". The State Department continues to use both the terms \"expatriation\" and \"relinquishment\", and refers to the acts listed in as \"potentially expatriating acts\". \"Renunciation\" specifically describes two of those acts (swearing an oath of renunciation before a U.S. diplomatic officer outside of the United States, or before a U.S. government official designated by the Attorney-General inside the United States during a state of war), while \"relinquishment\" may refer to any of those acts or to any of those acts besides swearing an oath of renunciation. In contrast, \"denaturalization\" is distinct from expatriation: that term is used solely in Subchapter III, Part 2 of the 1952 INA () to refer to court proceedings for cancellation of fraudulently procured naturalization.\n\nRelinquishment of United States nationality encompasses relinquishment of United States citizenship. \"Nationality\" and \"citizenship\" are distinct under U.S. law: all people with U.S. citizenship also have U.S. nationality, but American Samoans and some residents of the Northern Marianas Islands have U.S. nationality without citizenship. Both citizens and non-citizen nationals may undertake the process of relinquishment of United States nationality. A citizen who undertakes that process gives up both citizenship and nationality. It is not possible to relinquish U.S. citizenship while retaining U.S. nationality.\n\nPeople who relinquish U.S. citizenship are called \"relinquishers\", while those who specifically renounce U.S. citizenship are called \"renunciants\". The informal term \"last-generation Americans\", wordplay on terminology for immigrant generations (such as \"first-generation Americans\" or \"second-generation Americans\"), is also seen. The terms \"expatriation\" or \"expatriates\" may lead to some confusion, as in modern parlance an \"expatriate\" is simply a person who resides abroad, without any implication of giving up citizenship.\n\nFrom 2014 to 2016, an average of about five thousand U.S. citizens gave up their citizenship each year. These numbers have risen by nearly ten times between 2005 and 2015, though they remain only about three times the annual numbers in the 1970s.\n\nIn absolute terms, few people relinquish U.S. citizenship or citizenship of any other developed country; in almost all countries, the number of people who give up citizenship each year is small relative to the total number of citizens abroad, let alone the total number of citizens in that country. In a 2017 study of citizenship relinquishments in twenty-eight countries, mostly OECD members, the U.S. came in sixth place in relative terms (i.e. relinquishers as a proportion of citizens abroad), behind Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Estonia, and Japan; and second in absolute numbers behind South Korea. The study author noted that emotional factors and prohibitions on dual citizenship may affect the rates of citizenship relinquishment, and that military conscription may explain the high rates in the other top countries besides the United States. Peter Spiro notes that most countries with military conscription provide exemptions for non-resident citizens. Regardless of the reasons, even for South Korea, the top country, only about 0.7% of citizens abroad relinquish each year, while for the U.S. the rate is only about 0.1%, though in both cases unreliability of population figures for citizens abroad means the rates are open to question. One former Foreign Service Officer, noting that State Department estimates of the population of U.S. citizens abroad have grown from 3.2 million in 2004 to 9 million in 2017, cautions that these estimates were \"generated to justify consular assets and budget\" and so \"may be self-serving\".\n\nThe graph above presents statistics on relinquishment of U.S. citizenship from three sources. The blue bars are State Department statistics from 1962 to 1994 obtained by the Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT). During that period, a total of 37,818 U.S. citizens renounced or abandoned their citizenship. It is not clear which of these statistics refer solely to renunciants or include other relinquishers as well; the JCT stated that there were inconsistencies between the definitions used for the statistics for 1962 to 1979 and for 1980 to 1994. The green bars reflect the number of records of people who have renounced U.S. citizenship added each year to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (2006–present). This series includes renunciants and not other relinquishers \"(see below)\". The FBI added a large backlog of entries in 2012, so figures from that year may not be comparable to other years. The red bars reflect the number of entries in the Internal Revenue Service's Quarterly Publication of Individuals Who Have Chosen to Expatriate (1996–present). Statistics for 1996 and 1997 may not be comparable to later years. Lawyers disagree whether this publication includes the names of all former citizens, or just some \"(see below)\".\n\nThe proportion of renunciations or other individual expatriating acts among the total number of relinquishments has been reported on occasion. A \"Los Angeles Times\" article stated that between 1951 and 1973, a total of 10,000 Americans renounced their citizenship, while another 71,900 lost it \"either unknowingly or deliberately, by acquiring a foreign passport\". Law journal articles in 1975 and 1976 stated that there were 95,000 \"administrative determinations of voluntary abandonment of United States citizenship\" from 1945 to 1969, including 40,000 on grounds of voting in a foreign election. In the 1980s, renunciations accounted for about one-fifth of all relinquishments of citizenship, according to State Department statistics: there were roughly 200 to 300 renunciations per year, among a total of between 800 and 1600 relinquishments per year. In 2015, the State Department forecast that there would be 5,986 renunciations and 559 non-renunciatory relinquishments during that fiscal year.\n\nA person who performs a potentially expatriating act with the intention of giving up U.S. citizenship loses U.S. citizenship from the time of that act. The State Department will issue such a person with a Certificate of Loss of Nationality (CLN) upon request. U.S. nationality law does not require an ex-citizen to notify the State Department nor obtain a CLN, but obtaining one may be helpful to prove one's status as a non-U.S. citizen to other governments or private parties, and U.S. tax laws since 2004 ignore relinquishment of citizenship until the person notifies the State Department.\n\nObtaining a CLN to demonstrate relinquishment of U.S. citizenship has become a lengthy process with high barriers. The total cost of renouncing U.S. citizenship for a person in France, including the cost of preparing the related tax paperwork, has been reported to be €10,000-20,000 on average. Allison Christians of McGill University and Peter Spiro of Temple University have suggested that the complexity and cost of the process, especially the $2,350 State Department fee and the potential penalties for failure to file related tax forms, may constitute a breach of the U.S.' obligation not to impose arbitrary barriers to change of nationality, particularly when applied to accidental Americans who have few genuine links to the United States. Such an obligation can be found in the domestic law (the Expatriation Act of 1868), in international instruments such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and in general state practice. The difficulty of the process led to a proposal by members of France's National Assembly that the French government should negotiate with the U.S. government for French citizens to enjoy a simplified procedure for renouncing U.S. citizenship that did not require payment of such fees, and subsequently a June 2018 resolution in the European Parliament calling on the European Commission to carry out similar negotiations in respect of all accidental Americans who were citizens of European Union member states.\n\nTax filing is not a legal prerequisite to giving up U.S. citizenship, although there are various negative tax consequences if one fails to file U.S. taxes before giving up citizenship, or fails to file tax forms specific to ex-citizens in the year following relinquishment. The U.S. State Department instructs officers not to answer any inquiries about the tax treatment of ex-citizens, and refers all such inquiries to the IRS.\n\nObtaining a CLN by renouncing citizenship requires two interviews by U.S. consular officers; the first interview may be held by telephone, but State Department policy demands that the second must be in person. Obtaining a CLN through other forms of relinquishment, where the individual informs the consulate that he or she had the requisite intent when performing a potentially expatriating act, requires the individual to complete a questionnaire and return it to the consulate, after which the consular officer may request a follow-up interview, either by telephone or in person. In Canada, one of the countries with a high volume of relinquishments of U.S. citizenship, initial intake and review of the questionnaire prior to assignment of an appointment reportedly took 60 days in 2016.\n\nInterviews are normally conducted on an individual basis, but in 2011 the U.S. Consulate in Toronto held a group appointment for twenty-two people in an apparent attempt to address scheduling difficulties. Backlogs remain long, with the Toronto consulate reportedly having a 10-month waiting list for appointments in 2015, and the U.S. Embassy in Dublin stating in April 2016 that no more appointments were available until December 2016. The appointment does not have to be conducted at the diplomatic post in the relinquisher's country of residence, but can be held at a post in another country instead.\n\nAfter the second interview, the person signs a statement confirming that they understand the rights they are giving up, and must pay a fee of $2,350. The fee was raised from its previous level of $450 in 2014. This fee is believed to be the world's highest for giving up citizenship, more than twice the fee in the next highest country (Jamaica), and roughly twenty times the average fee charged by other developed countries.\n\nWait time to receive a CLN varies. Cuban spy René González received his CLN within days of renouncing. Others have reported wait times of as long as a year. The loss of citizenship is deemed to take legal effect on the date of the actual relinquishing act, rather than the date of approval of the CLN. While approval of the CLN is pending, the State Department will not issue a U.S. visa to a person who has relinquished citizenship, meaning that in general the person cannot travel to the United States. In exceptional cases, the State Department says that it can permit a relinquisher with an \"urgent need to travel\" to the U.S. while the CLN is pending to use a U.S. passport.\n\nFollowing confirmation by State Department officials in Washington, DC, the consulate provides a copy of the CLN to the former citizen, and returns his or her U.S. passport after cancelling it. The State Department also forwards copies of the CLN to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of Homeland Security, and the Internal Revenue Service.\n\nBeginning with the Expatriation Act of 1907, Congress began to define concrete acts from which the intent to give up citizenship would be inferred, in what Nora Graham describes as the start of \"the process of the government transforming voluntary expatriation into denationalization\". The constitutional basis for this was not the Naturalization Clause, as Supreme Court dicta limited the scope of this power. Rather, the government successfully argued for decades, beginning in \"Mackenzie v. Hare\", that this arose from the inherent power of sovereignty in foreign relations. The Nationality Act of 1940 greatly expanded the list of acts regarded as criteria for a finding of voluntary expatriation.\n\nThe Supreme Court eventually rejected this argument in \"Afroyim v. Rusk\" (1967), ruling that under the Fourteenth Amendment, Congress lacked the power to deprive a native-born or naturalized citizen of U.S. citizenship, and that loss of citizenship required the individual's assent. Then in \"Vance v. Terrazas\" (1980), the court further clarified that mere performance of expatriating acts could not be taken as \"conclusive evidence\" of assent to loss of citizenship, but rather that the trier of fact must also find an intent to relinquish citizenship either \"in words\" or \"as fair inference from proven conduct\". Finally, in 1990, the State Department adopted an administrative presumption that U.S. citizens who performed three categories of potentially expatriating acts (naturalizing in a foreign state, making a \"routine\" oath of allegiance to a foreign country, or serving in a non-policy-level position in a foreign government) intended to retain U.S. citizenship, unless the person \"affirmatively asserts\" otherwise to a consular officer. An attempt in 2005 to force the State Department to revise this policy died in committee in the House of Representatives. Though cases restricting government-initiated termination of U.S. citizenship were seen as civil rights victories by people who hoped to regain or retain U.S. citizenship, in practice they have also resulted in involuntary retroactive restoration of U.S. citizenship, without notification, to people who were unwilling to have their citizenship restored.\n\nIn general, the Department of Justice takes the position that renunciation pursuant to a plea bargain is voluntary and demonstrates intent to give up U.S. citizenship. However, the Office of Legal Counsel outlined some circumstances under which a court might regard such a renunciation as involuntary, including \"physical or mental intimidation\", material misrepresentation of the plea agreement, or withholding material evidence. In at least one case prior to 1984, a State Department official refused to certify that a renunciation under such a plea bargain was voluntary.\n\nSome cases from the late 1950s and 1960s held that a potentially expatriating act could not actually cause loss of citizenship absent awareness that one had citizenship. Later case law modulated this: in \"Breyer v. Meissner\" (2000), the Third Circuit stated in \"dicta\" that voluntary service in the Waffen-SS during World War II would constitute \"unequivocal renunciation of American citizenship whether or not the putative citizen [was] then aware that he has a right to American citizenship\".\n\n places the burden of proof for relinquishment of citizenship \"upon the person or party claiming that such loss occurred, to establish such claim by a preponderance of the evidence\", and establishes the presumption that a potentially expatriating act was performed voluntarily. Thus, when an individual citizen asserts that it was his or her intent to relinquish citizenship, the burden of proof is on the individual to prove that intent.\n\nThe standard of preponderance of the evidence means that \"it was more likely than not that the individual intended to relinquish citizenship at the time of the expatriating act\"; the intent must be contemporaneous with the act. Prior to the enactment of 1481(b), the Supreme Court had held in \"Nishikawa v. Dulles\" that, in the absence of any Congressionally enacted standard of evidence, expatriation cases required the same standard of clear and convincing evidence as in denaturalization cases. Decades after the enactment of 1481(b), the Supreme Court upheld the new standard of evidence in \"Vance v. Terrazas\" in January 1980.\n\nThis provision, recommended by the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC), passed into law in 1961. HUAC chairman Francis E. Walter first introduced bills with this provision in February 1960 and January 1961, and it was eventually inserted into a Senate-originated bill on war orphans in August 1961. The House Judiciary Committee report on that bill stated that the burden of proof \"would rest on the Government\", whereas HUAC's later annual report noted that the burden of proof was on \"the party claiming that such loss occurred\". In the committee report on the bill, Walter described this provision as \"forestall[ing] further erosion of the statute designed to preserve and uphold the dignity and priceless value of U.S. citizenship with attendant obligations\".\n\nIn general, requires that an individual be outside of the United States and its outlying possessions in order to relinquish citizenship, except when the relinquishing act is renunciation during a state of war or commission of treason, rebellion, or similar crimes. Additionally, relinquishment of citizenship requires giving up the right to enter and reside in the United States. This does not mean that ex-citizens are banned from the country; the State Department routinely issues visas to ex-citizens. However, entry into the United States is a privilege for which ex-citizens must apply, rather than a right which they can exercise freely, and they can be denied entry or deported just like any other alien. Though it might be possible that an alien could be a citizen of a U.S. state without obtaining or even being eligible for U.S. citizenship, state citizenship cannot provide any rights to enter or remain in the United States. Pseudo-legal arguments about U.S. citizenship by members of the sovereign citizen movement, such as that a person can declare himself a \"free-born citizen of a state\" rather than a U.S. citizen and then continue to reside in the U.S. without being subject to federal law, have been found frivolous by courts. Courts have also addressed other assertions of residual rights to U.S. residence by ex-citizens on the basis of sub-national citizenship at least twice in recent years.\n\nGarry Davis, who renounced U.S. citizenship in 1948 at the U.S. Embassy in Paris, attempted to return to the United States in 1978 without a visa, and was granted parole into the U.S. but not legal admission. In an appeal against deportation, he argued that he had only renounced United States citizenship but not the citizenship of the state of Maine where he was born. He further argued that the U.S. Constitution's Privileges and Immunities Clause meant that as a citizen of Maine he could not be denied the privilege of living in New Hampshire which New Hampshire citizens enjoyed. Judge Thomas Aquinas Flannery of the DC District Court did not address the first argument but rejected the second, writing that while the state of New Hampshire could not restrict Davis' travel or access there, under the Constitution's Naturalization Clause Congress has sole and absolute authority to make laws regarding the entry and deportation of people other than United States citizens.\n\nIn 1998, the DC District Court considered another case involving a renunciant who returned to the United States without a visa. In the mid-1990s, a number of Puerto Rican independence supporters, including Alberto Lozada Colón and Juan Mari Brás, renounced U.S. citizenship at U.S. embassies in nearby countries and then returned to Puerto Rico almost immediately while they were waiting to receive CLNs. In 1998, the State Department formally refused to issue a CLN to Lozada Colón, stating that his continued assertion of the right to reside in the United States without obtaining a visa demonstrated his lack of intent to relinquish United States citizenship. Lozada Colón petitioned for a writ of mandamus to compel the State Department to issue his CLN, arguing that he could relinquish U.S. citizenship while keeping Puerto Rican citizenship and thus the right to return to his homeland of Puerto Rico. Judge Stanley Sporkin rejected the argument that a non-U.S. citizen had the right to enter Puerto Rico, noting that Puerto Rico was part of the United States for purposes of the Immigration and Nationality Act, and so aliens required documentation from the U.S. government in order to enter and reside there. Sporkin further ruled that the court was not an appropriate venue to decide the political question of whether Puerto Rican citizenship could stand separately from U.S. citizenship. Following the ruling, the State Department also revoked Mari Brás' CLN.\n\nThe United States is not a signatory to either the 1954 Convention relating to the Status of Stateless Persons nor the 1961 Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness. As such, the United States permits citizens to relinquish their citizenship even when those citizens have no other citizenship, without regard to the conventions' attempts to prevent statelessness from occurring as a result of voluntary relinquishment of nationality. The State Department warns that \"severe hardship\" could result to individuals making themselves stateless, that even those with permanent residence in their country \"could encounter difficulties continuing to reside there without a nationality\", and that a foreign country might deport stateless ex-U.S. citizens back to the United States. However, \"[i]n making all these points clear to potentially stateless renunciants, the Department of State will, nevertheless, afford them their right to expatriate.\"\n\nThere are several known cases in which former U.S. citizens made themselves stateless voluntarily. Henry Martyn Noel moved to Allied-occupied Germany in the aftermath of World War II and voluntarily made himself stateless to protest \"a climax of nationalism\" he saw rising around him in the United States. Thomas Jolley renounced U.S. citizenship in 1967 after acquiring landed immigrant status in Canada (but not citizenship there) in order to avoid being drafted to serve in the Vietnam War. Raffi Hovannisian renounced U.S. citizenship in April 2001 and made himself stateless to protest a decade-long delay in the processing of his application for Armenian citizenship; he was subsequently granted Armenian citizenship by presidential degree about four months later. Garry Davis and Mike Gogulski made themselves stateless because they felt that their respective political philosophies precluded allegiance to any one country.\n\nOne case in which a stateless ex-U.S. citizen was deported back to the United States, as warned of by the State Department, was that of Joel Slater. Slater, motivated by opposition to the foreign policy of the Ronald Reagan administration, renounced in Perth, Australia, in 1987. After Australia deported him back to the United States, he subsequently proceeded to Canada en route to the French overseas territory of Saint Pierre and Miquelon, but failed to secure permission to remain there, and was deported from Canada back to the United States as well. In other cases, renunciation of U.S. citizenship forestalled or prevented the stateless individual's deportation. Clare Negrini renounced U.S. citizenship in Italy in 1951 and made herself stateless in an effort to prevent Italy from expelling her back to the United States; she later married an Italian citizen and acquired Italian citizenship through him. Harmon Wilfred renounced U.S. citizenship in New Zealand in 2005 and made himself stateless after Immigration New Zealand (INZ) denied his application for a visa extension to remain in the country. In 2011 INZ ordered Wilfred deported, but the State Department refused to issue travel documents to allow Wilfred entry to the U.S., and in February 2018 INZ withdrew the deportation order against him.\n\nIn early U.S. legal history, the Supreme Court recognized the expatriation of a minor by his father's action in \"Inglis v. Trustees of Sailor's Snug Harbor\" (1830). In that case, the plaintiff had been born in New York City, but the success of his action to recover real estate turned on the legal question of his citizenship. It was not clear whether he was born before or after the United States Declaration of Independence, but it was common ground that his loyalist father took him to Nova Scotia after the 1783 British evacuation of New York. Justice Smith Thompson, writing the majority opinion, held that the father's action constituted election to be a British subject under the 1783 Treaty of Paris, and that decision extended to the plaintiff as well.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the State Department and the Immigration and Naturalization Service clashed on the question of whether parental action could result in loss of citizenship of minor children. Though the Attorney-General favored the State Department's view that it could, in 1939 the Supreme Court held in \"Perkins v. Elg\" that a citizen born in the U.S. did not lose her own citizenship when her parents, both naturalized Americans of Swedish origin, returned to Sweden and her father renounced his American citizenship. In the 2010s, the U.S. Consulate in Calgary ruled that Carol Tapanila, an American-born Canadian woman who had renounced her own U.S. citizenship, could not renounce on behalf of her developmentally disabled son; the son was also ruled unable to renounce on his own due to his inability to understand the concept of citizenship or renunciation, thus leaving him permanently subject to U.S. taxation on gains in his Canadian government-funded Registered Disability Savings Plan.\n\nThe statutory definition of some potentially expatriating acts, namely foreign naturalization, foreign oath of allegiance, and foreign government service, requires that the person performing them have been eighteen years or older at the time in order to relinquish citizenship through those acts. There is no statutory age restriction on renunciation before a U.S. diplomatic officer abroad; nevertheless, the State Department often refuses to accept renunciations by minors, and carefully scrutinizes cases involving even individuals who have recently attained the age of majority, on the theory that they may be subject to ongoing influence by their parents.\n\nAlthough the U.S. government has removed most restrictions on dual or multiple citizenship from its nationality laws, some other countries retain such restrictions, and U.S. citizens in such countries may choose to give up U.S. citizenship to comply with those restrictions.\n\nSome foreign countries do not permit their citizens to hold other citizenships at all. Bars on dual citizenship take a variety of forms, but two common provisions in such countries' laws are that a foreigner seeking to become a citizen of the country generally must obtain release from any other citizenships according to the laws of those other countries (a provision seen for example in South Korea and Austria), and that a person who was born with dual citizenship must choose whether to retain the local citizenship or the foreign citizenship upon reaching the age of majority (e.g. in Japan). In the 1990s, many individuals relinquishing citizenship were naturalized citizens returning to their countries of birth; for example, the State Department indicated to the JCT that many of the 858 U.S. citizens who renounced in 1994 were former Korean Americans who returned to South Korea and resumed their citizenship there, which under South Korean nationality law required them to give up their U.S. citizenship. By the late 1990s, the number of relinquishments had fallen to about 400 per year. The State Department speculated that the 1997 Asian financial crisis resulted in \"fewer people renounc[ing] their U.S. citizenship as a condition of employment in an Asian country\".\n\nEven countries which permit dual citizenship may bar dual citizens from government positions. Australia for example does not allow dual citizens to stand for election to Parliament, while Taiwan bars dual citizens from most public-sector positions. Diplomatic and consular positions present additional difficulties. The Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and Vienna Convention on Consular Relations state that a country may refuse to receive a diplomat or consular officer who holds the citizenship of the receiving country. Based on this, the State Department does not receive U.S. citizens and non-citizen nationals as diplomats representing a foreign country to the United States. The State Department permits such individuals to represent a foreign country in its diplomatic mission at United Nations Headquarters in New York City, but while in such positions they enjoy only official acts immunity and not diplomatic immunity. Thus, an individual wishing to assume a diplomatic or consular position in the United States may choose to relinquish U.S. citizenship. One early example of this, which was described at the time as the first such case in U.S. diplomatic history, was Oskar R. Lange's decision to renounce citizenship in 1945 to become the Polish ambassador to the United States.\n\nThe United States is the only country which taxes the foreign income of citizens residing abroad permanently. The United States first imposed taxes on overseas citizens during the Civil War, and has done so continuously since the Revenue Act of 1913 up to the present. During that period, the small number of other countries with similar practices all repealed such laws and moved to taxing based on residence, to the extent that residence-based taxation might now be regarded as a norm of customary international law; Allison Christians has stated that the U.S. might be regarded as a persistent objector to the emergence of this new norm, though she notes that the U.S.' sporadic efforts to enforce its system over the years in which this norm formed might not rise to the level of \"persistent\".\n\nThe U.S. foreign tax credit and Foreign Earned Income Exclusion reduce double taxation but do not eliminate it even for people whose income is well below the exclusion threshold, particularly in the case of self-employment tax. The treatment of foreign-currency loans can result in U.S. income tax owed even when there has been no income in real terms, which causes difficulties for those who obtained a mortgage to purchase a home in their country of residence. Foreign government-sponsored savings plans or structures may face complicated reporting requirements under United States anti-offshoring laws; for example the Canadian Registered Disability Savings Plan may be a foreign trust for U.S. tax purposes, while non-US mutual funds may be Passive Foreign Investment Companies. The forms for reporting such assets are time consuming to complete, often requiring expensive professional assistance, and penalties of $10,000 per form can be imposed for failure to file. Furthermore, the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) imposed additional compliance burdens on non-U.S. banks, making them increasingly unwilling to extend anything beyond basic banking services to customers with U.S. citizenship. One scholar described the sum total of these requirements as \"an attack on ordre public\".\n\nThe rise in relinquishments in the 2010s appears to have been driven by increased awareness of the tax and reporting burdens on U.S. citizens in other countries; in particular, many relinquishers are believed to be accidental Americans who only learned about their citizenship and these burdens due to enforcement of and publicity about FATCA. Some legal scholars interpret the number of U.S. citizenship relinquishers as indicating acceptance of the tax and reporting burdens by those who do not relinquish. Others believe that the number of people giving up citizenship remains small only because some \"de jure\" dual citizens, particularly those born abroad, remain unaware of their status or are able to hide from the U.S. government more effectively than those born in the United States.\n\nIn 1972, one commentator described Selective Service registration and military service as the \"primary obligation\" of U.S. citizen men living abroad, aside from taxation. In a 1995 report, the Joint Committee on Taxation attributed the high number of people who gave up U.S. citizenship in the 1960s and 1970s to the Vietnam War. \n\nOther individual ex-citizens have expressed a variety of reasons for giving up U.S. citizenship.\n\nVincent Cate, an encryption expert living in Anguilla, chose to renounce his U.S. citizenship in 1998 to avoid the possibility of violating U.S. laws that may have prohibited U.S. citizens from \"exporting\" encryption software.\n\nSome individuals have given up U.S. citizenship as part of plea bargains, in order to receive reduced penalties for certain crimes. Examples include Arthur Rudolph and Yaser Esam Hamdi. The State Department notes that \"some would liken [this] to banishment when a citizen at birth is involved\". \n\nU.S. law explicitly lists the acts by which one may relinquish U.S. citizenship at , and previously in other sections of the same subchapter. The list itself was last amended in 1978 to delete the provisions on loss of citizenship for draft evasion, desertion, failure to reside in the United States by naturalized citizens, voting in foreign elections, and failure to reside in the United States by citizens born abroad. The former four had already been struck down by the Supreme Court a decade earlier or more in \"Trop v. Dulles\" (1958), \"Kennedy v. Mendoza-Martinez\" (1963), \"Schneider v. Rusk\" (1964), and \"Afroyim v. Rusk\" (1967). The final provision had been upheld in \"Rogers v. Bellei\" (1971), but the State Department favored its repeal. The conditions for relinquishment under some potentially expatriating acts were modified by the Immigration and Nationality Act Amendments of 1986, which also inserted the general requirement of \"intention to relinquish\" in conformance with the Supreme Court's ruling in \"Vance v. Terrazas\" (1980). The last amendment to this section was contained in the Immigration Technical Corrections Act of 1988, which extended the requirement of intention to relinquishing acts prior to the effective date of the 1986 amendments.\n\n provides for relinquishment through \"obtaining naturalization in a foreign state upon his own application or upon an application filed by a duly authorized agent\". The U.S. government did not recognize unequivocally that a U.S. citizen could choose to give up citizenship by becoming a citizen of a foreign country until the passage of the Expatriation Act of 1868, and instead treated them as continuing to be U.S. citizens regardless of their intent, for example in the Supreme Court case \"Talbot v. Janson\" (1795). Beginning in 1868, the State Department regarded foreign naturalization as effecting expatriation in nearly all cases, again without regard to the citizen's intent.\n\nThe State Department continued to regard foreign naturalization as demonstrating intent to relinquish U.S. citizenship even after \"Vance v. Terrazas\". As late as 1985, in \"Richards v. Secretary of State\" the Ninth Circuit upheld a State Department finding of expatriation against a man who had naturalized in Canada, despite his protests that he did not wish to give up U.S. citizenship and that he had only naturalized in order to keep his job with Scouts Canada. Similar rulings by the State Department's Board of Appellate Review can be found as late as March 1990. This policy ended in April 1990, when the State Department began applying a presumption of intent to retain U.S. citizenship to most potentially expatriating acts, including naturalization in a foreign country.\n\nThe State Department used to assert that acquisition of Israeli citizenship by operation of the Law of Return after moving to Israel on an oleh's visa could not trigger loss of citizenship under 1481(a)(1) even if the citizen stated that it was his or her intent to relinquish. In \"Fox v. Clinton\", the plaintiff challenged this policy and won recognition of his relinquishment on appeal to the DC Circuit Court.\n\n provides for relinquishment through \"taking an oath or making an affirmation or other formal declaration of allegiance to a foreign state or a political subdivision thereof\". This provision was first found in Section 2 of the Expatriation Act of 1907, and was re-enacted in Section 401(b) of the Nationality Act of 1940.\n\nIn various cases before the Board of Immigration Appeals up to 1950, oaths which were held as not establishing expatriation included an oath required for employment by a Canadian government-owned airline, an ordination oath in the Church of England, and an admission oath in the German Bar Association. State Department officials also held that the oath should be required by the laws of the foreign state and sworn before an officer of its government. In \"Gillars v. United States\" (1950), an appeal in the treason trial of Mildred Gillars, the DC Circuit Court rejected Gillars' contention that a letter she signed in the aftermath of a workplace dispute expressing allegiance to Germany resulted in her expatriation because it was informal in nature, not signed before any German government official, and not connected to German regulations or legal procedures. In \"Baker v. Rusk\" (1969), the DC Circuit Court rejected the government's contention that Baker had expatriated himself by swearing an oath to King George V in order to gain admission to the Canadian Bar Association. Finally, in \"Vance v. Terrazas\" (1980), the Supreme Court held that even when an oath sworn to a foreign government contains language specifically renouncing allegiance to the United States, the government cannot use the oath itself as evidence of intent to relinquish citizenship, but must establish such intent independently.\n\nIn 2017, the State Department added four criteria to the \"Foreign Affairs Manual\" regarding what would be considered a \"meaningful oath\" for purposes of this provision. The fourth criterion required that \"making and receipt of the oath or affirmation alters the affiant’s legal status with respect to the foreign state\", giving the example that a citizen of a foreign country could not expatriate him or herself by taking an oath of allegiance to that same country, unless the oath gave the person a \"new citizenship status ... such as a retention of citizenship that might otherwise be lost\".\n\n provides for relinquishment through \"entering, or serving in, the armed forces of a foreign state\" if either the person serves \"as a commissioned or non-commissioned officer\" or \"such armed forces are engaged in hostilities against the United States\". 1481(a)(3) does not require that the person have attained the age of eighteen years. The State Department's 1990 presumption of intent to retain U.S. citizenship does not apply to service in the military of a foreign country engaged in hostilities against the United States.\n\nWhen the Supreme Court considered the Nationality Act of 1940's predecessor to this provision in \"Nishikawa v. Dulles\" (1958), the majority struck down the government's contention that plaintiff-appellant Mitsugi Nishikawa's service in the Imperial Japanese Army during WWII could serve to effect his expatriation under this provision, because he had been conscripted. The minority objected that by the time the provision had been written, \"conscription and not voluntary enlistment had become the usual method of raising armies throughout the world, and it can hardly be doubted that Congress was aware of this fact.\"\n\n provides for relinquishment through \"accepting, serving in, or performing the duties of any office, post, or employment under the government of a foreign state or political subdivision thereof\", if the person \"has or acquires the nationality of such foreign state\" or \"if an oath, affirmation, or declaration of allegiance is required\".\n\nThough the State Department's 1990 presumption of intent to retain U.S. citizenship applies only to non-policy-level employment in a foreign government, even policy-level employment typically does not result in loss of citizenship if the individual says that he or she did not intend to give up citizenship. However, the State Department has expressed some reservations whether serving as a foreign head of state, head of government, or minister of foreign affairs is compatible with maintaining United States citizenship.\n\nUnder the respective Compacts of Free Association, service with the governments of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, or Palau is not an expatriating act.\n\n provides for renunciation \"before a diplomatic or consular officer of the United States in a foreign state, in such form as may be prescribed by the Secretary of State\". The text of the oath is found in Form DS-4080. The 1990 presumption of intent to retain U.S. citizenship does not apply to swearing an oath of renunciation before a U.S. diplomatic officer. The State Department describes renunciation as \"the most unequivocal way in which someone can manifest an intention to relinquish U.S. citizenship\". A major legal distinction between renunciation and other forms of relinquishment is that \"[i]t is much more difficult to establish a lack of intent or duress for renunciation\".\n\nA large-scale case in which renunciations of U.S. citizenship were later overturned was that of the African Hebrew Israelites of Jerusalem. In the early 1980s, at least 700 members of the community who had settled in Israel renounced their U.S. citizenship in the hopes that statelessness would prevent their deportation back to the United States, though their children tended to retain citizenship. Groups of four to six per week came to the U.S. Embassy in Tel Aviv to renounce citizenship, over a period of years. Around 1990, the community began negotiating with the Israeli government in an effort to regularize their immigration status; one condition of the mass grant of residence permits was for the community members to re-acquire U.S. citizenship, so that the small number of criminals who had tried to hide in their community could be deported back to the United States. The State Department accepted community leaders' argument that the earlier renunciations had been made under duress due to the social and political environment at the time, and were thus involuntary and did not meet the legal requirements to terminate citizenship.\n\n provides for renunciation from within U.S. territory \"in such form as may be prescribed by, and before such officer as may be designated by, the Attorney General, whenever the United States shall be in a state of war and the Attorney General shall approve such renunciation as not contrary to the interests of national defense\". It was intended to encourage militants among Japanese American internees to renounce U.S. citizenship so that they could continue to be detained if internment were to be declared unconstitutional. About five thousand individuals, mostly at Tule Lake, renounced citizenship for a variety of reasons, including anger at the U.S. government for the internment and the desire to remain with non-citizen family members whom they feared would be deported to Japan. After the war, civil rights lawyer Wayne M. Collins helped many fight legal battles in the courts to regain their citizenship, while some such as Joseph Kurihara accepted deportation to Japan and lived out the rest of their lives there.\n\n1481(a)(6) became inoperative after World War II, and was thought to have remained so during the Vietnam War. There were later some \"pro se\" lawsuits regarding 1481(a)(6) due to what Judge Bernice B. Donald derided as a \"popular myth among prisoners\" that renouncing citizenship would allow early release in exchange for deportation to another country. Courts consistently ruled that 1481(a)(6) was inoperative because the U.S. was not in a \"state of war\", until 2008 when James Kaufman of Wisconsin won a ruling from the DC District Court that the U.S. was indeed in a \"state of war\" and that the Department of Homeland Security was responsible for administering 1481(a)(6). The Department of Justice abandoned its appeal against this ruling for unstated reasons. Further attempts by prisoners to renounce under 1481(a)(6) continued to be stymied by a United States Citizenship and Immigration Services policy that applicants had to attend an in-person interview and demonstrate that they could leave the U.S. immediately upon approval of renunciation. By 2014, Kaufman had been released from prison but remained unable to renounce due to the second requirement.\n\n provides that commission of certain crimes may be regarded as a relinquishing act, if one is convicted of those crimes. The original list in Section 349(a)(9) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 included only treason, bearing arms against the U.S., or attempting to overthrow the U.S. by force. The Expatriation Act of 1954, motivated by fears of communism in the United States, added additional crimes to this list, namely the crime of advocating the overthrow of the U.S. government as defined by the Smith Act of 1940, as well as the crimes of seditious conspiracy and rebellion or insurrection as proscribed by the Crimes Act of 1909. This provision is known to have been applied to Tomoya Kawakita, whose conviction for treason was upheld by the Supreme Court in \"Kawakita v. United States\" (1952). Kawakita had his death sentence commuted to life imprisonment in 1953, and in 1963 received a conditional pardon in exchange for his deportation to Japan. As of 1991, the constitutionality of this provision had not been tested in the courts. In the 2000s and 2010s, there were proposals to add additional terrorism-related crimes to the list of those causing loss of citizenship, such as the Enemy Expatriation Act in 2011, but these failed to pass.\n\nSpecial tax provisions began targeting former U.S. citizens in the 1960s. The Foreign Investors Tax Act of 1966, which provided that foreigners who invested in the United States would not have to pay capital gains tax, denied this tax break to people who had relinquished U.S. citizenship within the past ten years and whom the IRS determined to have relinquished for the purpose of avoiding U.S. taxation. This was intended to ensure that U.S. citizens did not relinquish citizenship for the purpose of accessing those tax breaks.\n\nThese provisions were rarely enforced due to their vagueness. In the early 1990s an article in \"Forbes\" magazine sparked renewed public interest in the issue of wealthy individuals giving up citizenship in order to avoid U.S. taxation, who were estimated to make up roughly a dozen of the one thousand individuals per year giving up U.S. citizenship. As a result, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) enacted concrete criteria under which an ex-citizen would be presumed a \"covered expatriate\" who gave up U.S. status for tax reasons, based on the person's income and assets, (), and required such citizens to file additional tax forms to certify their compliance with the new provisions (). Dual citizens at birth and young people who relinquished citizenship before the age of 18½ were exempt from \"covered expatriate\" status, subject to some restrictions including limited physical presence in the United States. The law also extended the expatriation tax to cover ex-permanent residents as well. \n\nDiscretionary exceptions to this tax, in particular the system of obtaining a private letter ruling (PLR) that one's relinquishment of citizenship was not motivated by taxation, fueled perceptions that it was ineffective at addressing tax-motivated relinquishment of citizenship, and sparked further amendments in the 2000s. The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 terminated the PLR exception to the tax on covered expatriates and taxed those who stayed in the U.S. for more than thirty days in any of the first ten years following relinquishment as though they remained a U.S. citizen for that year, while also classifying as \"covered expatriates\" people who relinquished citizenship or permanent residence but could not certify compliance with their tax filing and payment obligations for the past five years. Then, the Heroes Earnings Assistance Relief Tax Act (HEART Act) of 2008 repealed the ten-year system and imposed new taxes relating to covered expatriates, consisting of a one-time tax on worldwide accrued capital gains, calculated on a mark-to-market basis, and an inheritance tax on bequests from covered expatriates to U.S. persons (equivalent to estate tax with the exemption amount drastically lowered from $5.5 million to $13,000). The HEART Act also modified the criteria for dual citizens and people below the age of 18½ to be exempted from \"covered expatriate\" status. The new certification requirement to avoid covered expatriate status means that even the poorest individuals renouncing citizenship could become subject to these taxes. As a result, though tax filing is not a legal prerequisite to relinquishment of citizenship, this new exit tax system imposed significant disadvantages on people who relinquished citizenship without filing taxes.\n\nIn addition to the tax law changes, HIPAA included a provision to make the names of people who give up U.S. citizenship part of the public record by listing them in the \"Federal Register\". The sponsor of this provision, Sam Gibbons (D-FL), stated that it was intended to \"name and shame\" the people in question. The list does not appear to contain the names of all people who give up U.S. citizenship, though tax lawyers disagree whether that is because the list is only required to contain \"covered expatriates\", or due to bureaucratic errors or other reasons. Other countries such as Vietnam and South Korea also have provisions requiring publication of renunciation decisions in their respective government gazettes.\n\nTwo provisions of U.S. immigration law make some former citizens inadmissible, though only a small number of people are actually found inadmissible under those provisions each year. A finding of inadmissibility prevents a person from entering the U.S. either temporarily (under the Visa Waiver Program or a visitor or other visa) or permanently (as a lawful permanent resident), unless the person obtains a Waiver of Inadmissibility.\n\nThe Reed Amendment (), which became law as part of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996, attempted to make people who had renounced citizenship for the purpose of avoiding taxation by the United States inadmissible. The Department of Homeland Security indicated in a 2015 report that, due to laws protecting the privacy of tax information, the provision was effectively impossible to enforce unless the former citizen \"affirmatively admits\" his or her reasons for renouncing citizenship to an official at DHS or the State Department. Bipartisan efforts in the 2000s and 2010s to amend the tax information privacy laws to address this limitation all failed. According to the State Department, no person was denied a U.S. visa due to inadmissibility under the Reed Amendment until Fiscal Years 2016 and 2017, in which a total of three visa applications were denied due to a finding of inadmissibility. In two of those cases, the applicant was able to overcome the finding of inadmissibility and obtain a visa.\n\nAnother provision () makes inadmissible anyone who left the U.S. \"to avoid or evade training or service in the armed forces\" during a war or national emergency. The State Department regards a conviction as unnecessary for a finding of inadmissibility under this provision. Only people who were U.S. citizens or lawful permanent residents upon their departure are ineligible for non-immigrant visas under this provision. President Carter's 1977 pardon means that this provision is not applied to Vietnam War draft evaders. The State Department interprets the pardon as not applying to deserters. From 2000 to 2014, 120 people were found ineligible for non-immigrant visas under this provision, among whom 83 were able to overcome this ineligibility.\n\nThere is no specific provision of law which prevents a person who relinquished U.S. citizenship from regaining it again through naturalization, though conversely such individuals enjoy no special provisions to make the process easier either. They generally must qualify for lawful permanent resident (LPR) immigration status through the same process as any other alien, and must comply with the same requirements for naturalization. Special exceptions apply to women who lost citizenship under the Expatriation Act of 1907 by marrying a non-citizen, and to people who lost citizenship through service in Allied armed forces during World War II: such people can obtain special LPR status (under SC-1 and SC-2 visas) and apply for renaturalization without any required period of residence. The State Department has not issued any SC-1 or SC-2 visas at least since 2000.\n\nLevi Ying stated that the process of regaining U.S. citizenship through naturalization was not very difficult. Ying, a Taiwanese American lawyer who renounced U.S. citizenship to take political office in Taiwan, subsequently re-immigrated to the United States on a petition by his wife (who had remained a U.S. citizen), and applied for naturalization again for the sake of convenience. In contrast, some former Korean Americans who renounced U.S. citizenship to go into politics in South Korea, including Chris Nam and Chang Sung-gill, stated that while they were able to regain LPR status in the U.S. easily through sponsorship by spouses or children who had retained U.S. citizenship, they faced difficulties in the naturalization process.\n\nOne provision of the Gun Control Act of 1968 (codified at ) criminalizes firearms purchases by, and firearms sales to, people who have renounced United States citizenship. This provision, along with similar treatment for people adjudged mentally defective or dishonorably discharged from the U.S. Armed Forces, and a restriction on mail-order firearms sales, was aimed at preventing a repeat of the circumstances which allowed Lee Harvey Oswald to obtain the rifle which he used to assassinate President Kennedy. Oswald had never actually renounced his citizenship; he went to the U.S. embassy in Moscow one Saturday in 1959 intending to do so, but in order to delay him, Richard Edward Snyder requested that he come back on a weekday to complete the paperwork and swear the formal oath of renunciation, which Oswald never did.\n\nThe Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF) interprets the word \"renounced\" in this provision of law to apply only to persons who swore an oath of renunciation U.S. citizenship before a designated U.S. government official, and not those who committed other relinquishing acts. ATF further stated that a court appeal which reverses a renunciation also removes firearms disabilities, but that a renunciant who subsequently obtains United States citizenship again through naturalization would continue to be barred from purchasing firearms. Under the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act of 1993, individuals who are barred from purchasing firearms due to this provision or other provisions of the same law have their names entered into the National Instant Criminal Background Check System.\n\nThe Safe Explosives Act (a portion of the Homeland Security Act of 2002) expanded the list of people who may not lawfully transport, ship, receive or possess explosive materials to include people who have renounced their U.S. citizenship. In 2003, ATF promulgated regulations under that act providing for a definition of renunciation of citizenship consistent with that under the regulations to the Gun Control Act of 1968 and the Brady Act of 1993.\n\nIn general, ex-U.S. citizens are treated like any other aliens for purposes of Social Security retirement benefits. Those who have earned qualifying wages for at least forty quarters are eligible to receive benefits, while those who have not are ineligible. \"Qualifying wages\" excludes wages paid abroad by a non-U.S. employer, so in general people who have resided abroad for their entire working lives did not pay into Social Security and are not eligible for benefits, regardless of their citizenship.\n\nAdditionally, aliens face restrictions on eligibility for payments based on their country of citizenship or residence, whereas U.S. citizens do not. Residents of countries which have a totalization agreement with the United States, as well as citizens of 53 other countries, can receive Social Security payments indefinitely while residing outside of the United States. Otherwise, Social Security benefit payments will stop after the alien has spent six full calendar months outside of United States, and cannot be resumed until the alien spends one full calendar month inside of the United States and is lawfully present for that entire month. U.S. citizens, in contrast, can receive Social Security payments outside of the U.S. regardless of their length of residence abroad.\n\nRetired members of the United States Armed Forces who cease to be U.S. citizens may lose their entitlement to veterans' benefits, if the right to benefits is dependent on the retiree's continued military status.\n\nUnder Department of Energy guidelines, an action that shows allegiance to a country other than the United States, such as a declaration of intent to renounce U.S. citizenship or actual renunciation of citizenship, demonstrates foreign preference and thus is a ground to deny a security clearance.\n\nBelow is a gallery of some individuals who relinquished United States citizenship, listed by their other citizenship (dependent territories listed with the country in parentheses afterwards).\n\n"}
{"id": "85482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85482", "title": "Scientology and the Internet", "text": "Scientology and the Internet\n\nThere are a number of disputes concerning the Church of Scientology's attempts to suppress material critical of Scientology on the Internet, utilizing various methods primarily lawsuits and legal threats, as well as front organizations. In late 1994, the Church of Scientology began using various legal tactics to stop distribution of unpublished documents written by L. Ron Hubbard. The Church of Scientology is often accused of barratry through the filing of SLAPP suits. The official church response is that its litigious nature is solely to protect its copyrighted works and the unpublished status of certain documents.\n\nVarious critics of the Church of Scientology have characterized the organization as a confidence scam and claim that these secretive writings are proof, or allege that they contain evidence that the Church of Scientology's medical practices are illegal and fraudulent. Scientology has been convicted of fraud in the courts of several nations, although not those of the United States. Others have claimed that the Church of Scientology is abusing copyright law by launching lawsuits against outspoken critics.\n\nScott Goehring set up the newsgroup \"alt.religion.scientology\" in 1991, partly as a joke, partly for the purpose of informing the public about Scientology. Debate over the pros and cons of Scientology waxed and waned on the newsgroup through the first three years of its existence, and flame wars flared up commonly, as they did on some other newsgroups.\n\nThe online battle is generally regarded as having begun with the arrival of Dennis Erlich to \"alt.religion.scientology\" in late July 1994. A former high-ranking official in the Scientology organization who had been personally affiliated with L. Ron Hubbard, he caused a number of regular participants in the newsgroup to sit up and take notice.\n\nOn December 24, 1994, the first of a large number of anonymous messages was posted to \"alt.religion.scientology\", containing the text of the \"secret\" writings of Scientology known as the \"OT Levels\" (OT stands for \"Operating Thetan\"). Included among these postings was OT III (\"Operating Thetan Level Three\"), which gave L. Ron Hubbard's description of the \"Xenu story\". The Xenu story had been published in the Robert Kaufman book \"\" in 1972, the \"Philadelphia Inquirer\" in 1977, and several times in the 1980s in the \"Los Angeles Times\"; nevertheless, this action brought on the actions of lawyers representing Scientology, who contacted various newsgroup participants and posted warnings demanding that the unauthorized distribution of the OT writings cease. The lawyers described the documents as \"copyrighted, trademarked, unpublished trade secrets\", and the distribution of the materials as a violation of copyright law and trademark law.\n\nThe first postings of the \"OT\" documents were done through an anonymous remailer, and the identity of the person who made them available on the newsgroup was never discovered. However, Dennis Erlich posted replies to these messages on the newsgroup, and his replies contained the entire text of the original messages (including the disputed materials). Scientology's lawyers therefore approached him, declaring that Erlich had re-published the copyrighted works in his newsgroup messages. Erlich's reply to this was to deny their requests to remove his postings from the newsgroup.\n\nOn January 11, 1995, Scientology lawyer Helena Kobrin attempted to shut down the Usenet discussion group \"alt.religion.scientology\" by sending a control message instructing Usenet servers to delete the group on the grounds that:\n\n(1) It was started with a forged message; (2) not discussed on alt.config; (3) it has the name \"scientology\" in its title which is a trademark and is misleading, as a.r.s. is mainly used for flamers to attack the Scientology religion; (4) it has been and continues to be heavily abused with copyright and trade secret violations and serves no purpose other than condoning these illegal practices.\n\nIn practice, this rmgroup message had little effect, since most Usenet servers are configured to disregard such messages when applied to groups that receive substantial traffic, and newgroup messages were quickly issued for those servers that did not do so. However, the issuance of the message resulted in increased public criticism of Scientology by free-speech advocates.\n\nShortly after the initial legal announcements and \"rmgroup\" attempt, representatives of Scientology followed through with a series of lawsuits against various participants on the newsgroup, including Dennis Erlich, in \"Religious Technology Center v. Netcom\". The first raid took place on February 13, 1995. Accompanied by Scientology lawyers, federal marshals made several raids on the homes of individuals who were accused of posting Scientology's copyrighted materials to the newsgroup. Raids took place against Arnaldo Lerma (Virginia), Lawrence A. Wollersheim and Robert Penny of FACTNet (Colorado), and Dennis Erlich (California). Internationally, raids took place against Karin Spaink (The Netherlands) and Zenon Panoussis (Sweden). In addition to filing lawsuits against individuals, Scientology also sued the \"Washington Post\" for reprinting one paragraph of the OT writings in a newspaper article, as well as several Internet service providers, including Netcom, Tom Klemesrud, and XS4ALL. It also regularly demanded the deletion of material from the Deja News archive.\n\nParticipants in \"alt.religion.scientology\" began using quotes from OT III in particular to publicize the online battle over the secret documents. The story of Xenu was subsequently quoted in many publications, including news reports on CNN and \"60 Minutes\". It became the most famous reference to the OT levels, to the point where many Internet users who were not intimately familiar with Scientology had heard the story of Xenu, and immediately associated the name with Scientology. The initial strikes against Scientology's critics settled down into a series of legal battles that raged through the courts. The Electronic Frontier Foundation provided legal assistance to defendant Tom Klemesrud and his attorney Richard Horning helped find Dennis Erlich \"pro bono\" defense. Daily reports of the latest happenings were posted to \"alt.religion.scientology.\"\n\nIn the wake of the Scientologist actions, the Penet remailer, which had been the most popular anonymous remailer in the world until the Scientology \"war\" took place, was shut down. Johan Helsingius, operator of the remailer, stated that the legal protections afforded him in his country (Finland) were too thin to protect the anonymity of his users and he decided to close down the remailer as a result.\n\nAfter failing to remove the newsgroup, Scientologists adopted a strategy of newsgroup spam and intimidation. Scientologists hired third parties to regularly flood the newsgroup with pro-scientology messages, vague anti-scientology messages, irrelevant comments, and accusations that other posters are secret Scientologists intent on tracking and punishing posters. This makes the newsgroup virtually unreadable via online readers such as Google Groups, although more specialized newsreading software that can filter out all messages by specific \"high noise\" posters make the newsgroup more usable.\n\nWhile legal battles were being fought in the courts, an equally intense and aggressive campaign was waged online. The newsgroup \"alt.religion.scientology\" found itself at the heart of an electronic maelstrom of information and disinformation, as the newsgroup itself was attacked both literally and figuratively. Tens of thousands of junk messages were spammed onto the newsgroup, rendering it nearly unreadable at times when the message \"floods\" were at their peaks. Over one million sporgery articles were injected into the newsgroup by Scientology management and staff; former Scientology staff member Tory Christman has spoken at length about her involvement in these attacks. Lawyers representing the Church of Scientology made public appeals to Internet service providers to remove the newsgroup completely from their news servers. Furthermore, anonymous participants in the newsgroup kept up a steady stream of flame wars and off-topic arguments. Participants on the newsgroup accused Scientology of organising these electronic attacks, though the organization consistently denied any wrongdoing.\n\nIn the early days of the World Wide Web, groups associated with Scientology employed a similar strategy to make finding websites critical of the organization more difficult. Scientology employed Web designers to write thousands of Web pages for their site, thus flooding early search engines. This problem was solved by the innovation of clustering responses from the same Web server, showing no more than the top two results from any one site.\n\nSince 1995, Scientology has utilized copyright infringement laws to prosecute critics posting controversial information about the organisation on the Web. The organization has been accused of utilizing not only legal pressure, but also blackmail and character assassination in an attempt to win many of the court cases in which it involves itself. On the other side of the battle, many Web-page developers have linked the words \"Dianetics\" and \"Scientology\" to Operation Clambake. This resulted in the anti-Scientology site having the highest Google index on the term for a while, which in turn resulted in Scientology persuading Google to remove links to the site until international outcry led to the links being restored. This might be considered an early example of a Google bomb, and has led to questions about the power and obligations of Internet search providers.\n\nIn the 1990s Scientology was distributing a special software package for its members to 'protect' them from \"unapproved\" material about the church. The software is designed to completely block out the newsgroup \"alt.religion.scientology\", various anti-Scientology web sites, and all references to various critics of Scientology. This software package was derided by critics, who accused the organization of censorship and called the program \"Scieno Sitter\", after the content-control software net-filter program Cyber Sitter. Since no updates have been reported since 1998 (and the original filter program only worked with Windows 95) the package is unlikely to be in use with recent operating systems and browsers due to software rot.\n\nIn June 2006, Scientology lawyers sent cease-and-desist letters to Max Goldberg, founder of the website YTMND, asking him to take down all sites that either talked about or mocked Scientology, which had recently become a fad on the site following a popular \"South Park\" episode. Goldberg responded by stating that the \"claims are completely groundless and I'm not removing anything,\" adding to the members of the site, \"it should only be a matter of time before we're sued out of existence.\" In response, YTMNDers created yet more sites about Scientology, and these were highlighted on the main page. They also campaigned to Google bomb \"The Unfunny Truth About Scientology\" site. No legal action was taken against YTMND or Goldberg.\n\nIn August 2007, MSNBC quoted Associated Press in an article on the Wikipedia Scanner, that computers owned by the Church of Scientology have been removing criticism in the Scientology entry on Wikipedia. A Fox News article also reported that Church of Scientology computers had been used to delete references of the relationship between Scientology and the Cult Awareness Network, in the article on the Cult Awareness Network on Wikipedia. In May 2009, the Wikipedia Arbitration Committee decided to restrict access to its site from Church of Scientology IP addresses, to prevent self-serving edits by Scientologists. A \"host of anti-Scientologist editors\" were topic-banned as well. The committee concluded that both sides had \"gamed policy\" and resorted to \"battlefield tactics\", with articles on living persons being the \"worst casualties\".\n\nIn early 2008, another protest against the Church of Scientology was organized by the Internet-based Anonymous, which originally consisted of users of the English speaking imageboard 4chan and forums such as Somethingawful.com, and several Internet Relay Chat channels, among other Internet-based communities claiming affiliation with Anonymous.\n\nOn January 14, 2008, a video produced by the Church of Scientology featuring an interview with Tom Cruise was leaked to the Internet and uploaded to YouTube.\nThe Church of Scientology issued a copyright violation claim against YouTube requesting the removal of the video.\nIn response to this, Anonymous formulated Project Chanology.\nCalling the action by the Church of Scientology a form of Internet censorship, members of Project Chanology organized a series of denial-of-service attacks against Scientology websites, prank calls, and black faxes to Scientology centers.\n\nOn January 21, 2008, Anonymous announced its goals and intentions via a video posted to YouTube titled \"Message to Scientology\", and a press release declaring a \"War on Scientology\" against both the Church of Scientology and the Religious Technology Center.\nIn the press release, the group states that the attacks against the Church of Scientology will continue in order to protect the right to freedom of speech, and end what they believe to be the financial exploitation of church members.\nA new video \"Call to Action\" appeared on YouTube on January 28, 2008, calling for protests outside Church of Scientology centers on February 10, 2008.\n\nOn February 2, 2008, 150 people gathered outside of a Church of Scientology center in Orlando, Florida to protest the organization's practices. Small protests were also held in Santa Barbara, California, and Manchester, England.\nOn February 10, 2008, about 7,000 people .\nMany protesters wore Guy Fawkes masks inspired by the character V from \"V for Vendetta\", or otherwise disguised their identities, in part to protect themselves from reprisals from the Church of Scientology.\nAnonymous held a on March 15, 2008 in cities all over the world, including New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, London, Paris, Vancouver, Toronto, Berlin, and Dublin. Anonymous held its third protest against Scientology on April 12, 2008. Named \"Operation Reconnect\", it aimed to increase awareness of the Church of Scientology's disconnection policy. A fourth protest occurred on May 10, 2008 and a fifth (Operation Sea Arrrgh) occurred on June 14, 2008.\n\nIn March 2008, WikiLeaks published a 612-page Scientology manual on the eight Operating Thetan levels, considered secret by the Church of Scientology. Three weeks later, Wikileaks received a warning from the Church of Scientology that the manual was copyrighted and that its publication infringed intellectual-property rights. WikiLeaks refused to remove the material, and its operator released a statement saying that Scientology was a \"cult\" that \"aids and abets a general climate of Western media self-censorship.\" A Church of Scientology International spokeswoman, writing to FOXNews.com, said: \"I can only assume that religious bigotry and prejudice is driving their activity, as there is no altruistic value in posting our copyrighted scriptures, despite WikiLeaks' statements to the contrary. Posting entire books and hundreds of pages of published works is not 'Sunshine Policy' but wholesale copyright infringement.\" Julian Assange replied: \"We thought it was a small issue, and our normal fare is government corruption and military secrets, so it seemed that this nutty religious organization was pretty inconsequential in terms of what we normally do. But after receiving these legal threats from them ... it was time for us to make a stand.\"\n\nA few of the court cases ended with rulings in favor of Scientology, though most of the cases were settled out of court. Many cases have been criticized as examples of malicious litigation and its members and lawyers have been indicted and fined for such actions. Noteworthy incidents in the later years of the online war included:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3028845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3028845", "title": "Scope of review", "text": "Scope of review\n\nThe scope of review refers generally to the right to have an issue raised on appeal. Which essentially entails whether an issue was preserved by or available to an appellant on appeal.\n\nFor example, in the United States, a party can preserve an issue for appeal by raising an objection at trial.\n"}
{"id": "1598825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1598825", "title": "Seignory", "text": "Seignory\n\nIn English law, seignory or seigniory (French \"seigneur\", lord; Latin \"senior\", elder), is the lordship (authority) remaining to a grantor after the grant of an estate in fee simple.\n\n\"Nulle terre sans seigneur\" (\"No land without a lord\") was a feudal legal maxim; where no other lord can be discovered, the Crown is lord as lord paramount. The principal incidents of a seignory were a feudal oath of homage and fealty; a \"quit\" or \"chief\" rent; a \"relief\" of one year's quit rent, and the right of escheat. In return for these privileges the lord was liable to forfeit his rights if he neglected to protect and defend the tenant or did anything injurious to the feudal relation.\n\nEvery seignory now existing must have been created before the statute \"Quia Emptores\" (1290), which forbade the future creation of estates in fee-simple by subinfeudation. The only seignories of any importance at present are the lordships of manors. They are regarded as incorporeal hereditaments, and are either appendant or in gross. A seignory appendant passes with the grant of the manor; a seignory in gross—that is, a seignory which has been severed from the demesne lands of the manor to which it was originally appendant—must be specially conveyed by deed of grant.\n\nFreehold land may be enfranchised by a conveyance of the seignory to the freehold tenant, but it does not extinguish the tenant's right of common (\"Baring v. Abingdon\", 1892, 2 Ch. 374). By s. 3 (ii.) of the Settled Land Act 1882, the tenant for life of a manor is empowered to sell the seignory of any freehold land within the manor, and by s. 21 (v.) the purchase of the seignory of any part of settled land being freehold land, is an authorized application of capital money arising under the act.\n\n"}
{"id": "45017279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45017279", "title": "Statutory employee", "text": "Statutory employee\n\nA statutory employee is an independent contractor under American common law who is treated as an employee, by statute, for purposes of tax withholdings. For a standard independent contractor, an employer cannot withhold taxes. Statutory employees are also permitted to deduct work-related expenses on IRS Schedule C instead of Schedule A in the United States tax system. As a result, they are allowed a greater tax deduction for business expenses than standard employees, as Schedule C expenses are not subject to the 2% adjusted gross income threshold as seen with Schedule A. \n\nFor an individual to be considered a statutory employee, all of the following conditions must apply:\nSome examples of persons who may be considered statutory employees are as follows:\n\nStatutory employees occupy an intermediate position between employees and independent contractors from the perspective of the employer. Statutory employees are less expensive to hire than regular employees because the employer does not have to pay unemployment taxes. However, such employees are more expensive to hire than independent contractors because Social Security and Medicare taxes must be paid on wages in the form of FICA tax. Statutory employees pay FICA tax through their employer, and so do not pay self-employment tax; despite this, they must report expenses, income and wage.\n\nSimilar to independent contractors, statutory employees may deduct business expense from W-2 earnings.\n\n"}
{"id": "27070369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27070369", "title": "Sum of public power", "text": "Sum of public power\n\nThe sum of public power () is a legal term from Argentina, included in its constitution. It represents the sum of the three powers, and deems the complete delegation of them into the executive power as a crime of high treason.\n\nThe term was created in 1835, when governor Juan Manuel de Rosas was granted such powers by the legislature of Buenos Aires. Justo José de Urquiza led an army to depose Rosas in order to enact a Constitution, which Rosas had delayed for years, and the 1853 Constitution legally forbade such a thing from happening again.\n\nThe death of the federalist caudillo Facundo Quiroga caused great concern in the Argentine Confederation, and soon the legislature of Buenos Aires elected Rosas as governor. A law from Augusto 3, 1821, allowed the legislature to grant those powers. Those powers were fully delegated on him, with the sole exceptions of keeping, defending and protecting the Roman Catholic Church, and keeping and defending the cause of the Confederation. The term of office of the governor, of three years, was extended to five years. The legislature reelected Rosas three times, allowing him three full mandates of 5 years, being overthrown during the fourth. Rosas could use the sum of public power during any time period he deemed convenient during his mandate.\n\nTo confirm the legitimacy of his mandate, Rosas requested a vote to approve or reject him. Although there was no universal suffrage in Argentina by then, Rosas requested that all the people in Buenos Aires was allowed to vote, regardless of wealth or social conditions. This proposal was influenced by Jean-Jacques Rousseau's \"The Social Contract\". The only ones who could not vote were the women, the slaves, children under 20 years old (unless emancipated) and foreigners without a stable residence in the country. The final result had 9720 votes for Rosas and only 8 against him.\n\nAlthough Rosas received the sum of public power, he did not became an absolute monarch. He still had a limited term of office, and the legislature and other republican institutions were kept.\n\nIt was not a tyranny either, as he did not have the usual traits of a tyranny. He did not took the power by an illegal way, such as a coup d'état, but by an appointment of the legislature, and no law prevented the legislature from doing what it did. He did not become governor against the will of the population, as it was confirmed by a popular vote. He did not rule on behalf of a social minority, either.\n\nHis appointment was in line with the ideas of Rousseau, who thought that \"If, on the other hand, the peril is of such a kind that the paraphernalia of the laws are an obstacle to their preservation, the method is to nominate a supreme ruler, who shall silence all the laws and suspend for a moment the sovereign authority. In such a case, there is no doubt about the general will, and it is clear that the people’s first intention is that the State shall not perish\". This principle influenced as well the concept of the state of emergency, included in the 1853 constitution and in most legal systems around the world.\n\nRosas did not fully use the powers invested in him. He did not close the legislature, which continued working during his rule. He was not interested in the tasks of the judiciary power, so he did not use any judiciary powers after the end of the trial about the death of Facundo Quiroga. Even more, the governor used to be the highest court of appeal since the times of Spanish authority, so the legislature sanctioned a law in 1838 that established the \"Tribunal Supremo de Recursos Extraordinarios\", so that the highest court of the judiciary was still outside the executive power. Rosas gave his consent to the new law immediately.\n\nThe delegation of the sum of public power on Rosas was highly controversial. Domingo Faustino Sarmiento compared Rosas with other historical dictators in his work \"Facundo\", where he said as follows:\n\nOn the contrary, José de San Martín gave his full support to the delegation, on the grounds that the current situation in the country was so chaotic that it was needed to create order.\n\nRosas's mandate ended after his defeat at the Battle of Caseros, and Urquiza called for the making of a National Constitution, which was written the following year, 1853. The 29º article explicitly forbids a delegation of powers such as the one done with Rosas to be performed.\n\nHowever, the penalty for the 1835 release of the public power to Rosas is not affected by this ruling, as the Constitution was not established back then and had no ex post facto law provisions.\n\n"}
{"id": "14884926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14884926", "title": "Tag-along right", "text": "Tag-along right\n\nTag-along right (TAR) is a legal concept in corporate law.\n\nUnder the concept, if the majority shareholder(s) of an entity sells their stake, the remaining minority shareholders have the right to join the deal and to sell their shares at the same terms and conditions as the majority shareholder(s), and the new owner must purchase those interests as well.\n\nThis right protects minority shareholders from being potentially forced to sell their shares for less than the majority shareholder(s) (as, after the deal, they likely would have no ability to outvote the new owner(s) who would have majority control). Tag-along rights are fairly standard terms in shareholders agreements.\n\nThe concept differs from the drag-along right, in that under the latter the minority shareholders must sell their interests (though they also obtain the same terms and conditions as the majority shareholder).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48522528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48522528", "title": "The Religion of the Future", "text": "The Religion of the Future\n\nThe Religion of the Future is a book by the philosopher and politician Roberto Mangabeira Unger. In the book, he argues that humanity is in need of a religious revolution that dispenses with the concept of God and elements of the supernatural, a revolution that expands individual and collective human empowerment by fostering a condition he calls \"deep freedom\"—a life of creativity, risk, experiment, and meaningful personal connection—protected by structure-revising social and political structures of an empowered democracy hospitable to the context-breaking capacities inherent in human life.\n\nUnger opens the book by describing the four incurable defects of human life: death, groundlessness, insatiability, and belittlement. The major world religious traditions, although having certain elements in common, have differed in how they have dealt with these four defects of human life. Unger describes three “moments” in the evolution of religious belief: a first moment, when human life was so precarious that the flaws of existence did not occupy a central place in human consciousness; a second moment, when humans had achieved some degree of freedom from dependence on nature, allowing high culture to emerge and address the basic flaws of existence, which were now at the center of human consciousness. A hallmark of this second moment of religious belief was the common feature of religion in assuring believers that everything is alright. For the third moment to occur, Unger argues that a religious revolution is needed, a thoroughly naturalistic development of religious belief which offers no assurance that everything is alright, but offers a heightened, intensified, and more meaningful life in the present, rather than at some indefinitely postponed future time. This “religion of the future” would offer a way of confronting life without illusions.\n\nIn the next three chapters, Unger will address each of the three major world religious traditions and explain their shortcomings as inspiration and sources for the religion of the future.\n\nThe religious tradition of overcoming the world, chiefly represented by Buddhism and Hinduism, is marked by a quest for serenity and benevolence. Unger contends that “overcoming the world” cannot serve as a starting point for a future religious revolution, because this tradition seeks a deliberate dimming of consciousness and vitality in its quest for serenity. The religion of the future, Unger contends, must turn toward the world, not away from it, and a religious tradition that denies time and distinction, and urges us to turn away from engagement with the world, cannot be a basis for the religious revolution Unger envisions.\n\nThe tradition of humanizing the world (represented by Confucianism) is marked by a belief that humans can find their place in the world by embracing an ethic of roles and the ennoblement of our relations with each other through this ethic of roles. Unger contends that this tradition, too, is unsuited to be a starting point for the religion of the future because it gives too much weight and authority to social structures and roles that may match the dispositions only of the most virtuous, conformist members of society. The picture of human morality presented by the tradition of humanizing the world is ultimately unrealistic, Unger contends, and fails to address in a satisfactory manner the flaws in human existence.\n\nAccording to Unger, the religious tradition that holds the most promise as a starting point for the religion of the future is the tradition of “struggling with the world,” the semitic salvific religions including Judaism, Christianity and Islam. The tradition of “struggling with the world” also has a secular voice, in the form of the major doctrines of emancipation including liberalism, socialism and democracy. The metaphysical vision of the various forms of “struggling with the world” include several points in common:\n\nAt the heart of the doctrine of the “struggle with the world,” both in its religious and secular variants, is a conception of the self as embodied spirit. Unger explains a key aspect of the nature of the embodied spirit is that it can always overflow and exceed its contexts: “There is more in us, in each of us individually and in all of us collectively--the human race--than there is or ever can be in them.” Unger explains how this context-transcending quality of human beings as embodied spirit is manifested in the context of the market economy, in areas of rigorous intellectual inquiry such as mathematics and physics, and in the confrontation of human beings with the enigmas of their experience in the context of religion. In each of these settings, Unger argues, we are not “ever entirely hostage to the social and conceptual worlds that have helped shape us. They may direct us over much of our lives, but they do not own us.”\n\nThis view of human nature as irrepressibly context-transcending is at the heart of what Unger finds useful for the religion of the future in the doctrine of the struggle with the world, and it is this element of the doctrine that he embraces as the starting point for his vision of a religion of the future. But he finds that all of its contemporary forms, the tradition of struggling with the world is radically defective.\n\nUnger argues that a new religious revolution would be thoroughly naturalistic and would pursue the task of enhancing life now, rather than promising salvation or reward in the indefinite future. Such a revolution would likely contain elements that resemble past religious revolutions such as visionary teaching and exemplary action, but would combined with elements unknown to the religious revolutions of the past. The religious revolution that Unger envisions would have the following qualities:\n\nUnger sets forth the structural changes in society that would be necessary to foster the emancipatory conditions of the religion of the future, to make society more open to experiment, fulfillment, connection, and surprise. At the heart of his political proposals in this chapter is the general concept of “structure-revising structure,” and the various ways that this can be embodied in political and social institutions. Unger’s vision for politics in this chapter includes “heating up” the political process, creating institutional mechanisms for breaking impasse between branches of government, and increasing mass mobilization of citizens so that all have a voice in the direction and operation of government.\n\nUnger speculates on the quality that life would have under the regime instituted by a future religious revolution. Individuals would become freer to innovate, experiment, take risks, and look for trouble. Connections between people would be deeper and more meaningful. Social mechanisms and safety nets would be in place that would allow and encourage this climate of experiment, risk, cooperation and love.\n\nReviewing \"The Religion of the Future\" in the \"Journal of the American Academy of Religion\", Andrew B. Irvine wrote that “the book demands to be read not as a contribution to scholarly debate but as a direct intervention in the most important and urgent issues of today … No review could cover all the angles from which this book deserves to be appreciated—and criticized.” Irvine contends that Unger’s argument “dramatically ...simplifies the indefinitely complex data of religion, but it does so in the name of a single religious perspective.” Irvine asks: “What would this book look like if it were more deeply comparative and/or interreligious in its thinking? It is comparative and interreligious, of course, but Unger’s exclusivistic affirmation of the ‘struggle with the world’ seems insufficiently informed.” Irvine concludes his review by applauding \"The Religion of the Future\", stating that it “merits reading by philosophers, theologians, and activists, especially any who hold that a naturalistic metaphysics and praxis are vital to a flourishing human future. Its weaknesses are as instructive as its strengths.”\n\nBonaventure Chapman, writing in the Catholic publication \"Dominicana\", described \"The Religion of the Future\" as “a prophetic vision of any future religion,” and stated that he considered the book, alongside Ronald Dworkin’s \"Religion Without God\", to be an example of “religious atheism,” that is, a “new attitude to God” that “presents a new horizon for Christianity.” While strongly criticizing the book from a theistic standpoint, Chapman allows that this new religious atheism may represent a “maturing of the infantile atheism offered by the scientific naturalism perspective: it looks at the world and finds moral truth, objective value, and goodness.”\n\nReviewing \"The Religion of the Future\" in \"Notre Dame Philosophical Reviews\", Jeremy David Bendik-Keymer considered the book as the second part of the project that Unger began in \"\" and concluded in \"The Singular Universe and the Reality of Time\". Bendik-Keymer summarizes Unger’s project in these works as one that “seeks a world in which we live in the present, free of repression of, or reactive attitudes towards, the existential limitations of being human and in which we act collectively to create the conditions for ongoing innovation and self-transformation” (internal citations omitted). Bendik-Keymer complains that Unger’s depiction of human beings is “belittling” and concludes that Unger “has simply missed the mark… Unger may think of his work as preparation for prophesy, but it ends up as pontification.”\n\n- p.236\n\n- p.314\n\n- p.349\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4175276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4175276", "title": "Time Matters", "text": "Time Matters\n\nTime Matters is practice management software, produced by LexisNexis which was purchased by Reed Elsevier in March, 2004. It differs from contact management software such as ACT! or GoldMine because in addition to contacts, it manages calendaring, email, documents, research, billing, accounting, and matters or projects. It integrates with a variety of other software products from both LexisNexis and other vendors. Some of these vendors are Quicken, Microsoft, Palm, Mozilla, Corel, and Adobe. Developed originally for law firms, Time Matters competes with Gavel, Amicus, Tabs, and other legal practice management products. It also may be used in conjunction with Document modelling and Document assembly software products like HotDocs and Deal Builder.\n\nTime Matters was developed by DATA.TXT Corporation originally of Coral Gables, Florida, later of Cary, North Carolina (Cary is part of the Research Triangle Area of Raleigh-Durham-Chapel Hill... the \"Silicon Valley of the East\"). Since its inception, DATA.TXT Corporation focused on making Time Matters an all-encompassing professional office software package, providing Calendar, Tickler, Contact, Matter, Document, and Messaging Management for personal computers and networks of all sizes. Founded in December 1989 by Robert Butler who was later joined as co-founder by Kevin Stilwell in 1992, the entire management and programming staff that began Time Matters' development in 1989 remained on the team until 2004, providing continuity and reliability rarely seen in software developed for specialized markets.\n\nTime Matters became the number one seller of this type of Windows legal software, with nearly 60,000 users of the Windows version in all 50 US States, plus additional users in Canada, Europe, the Caribbean, Australia and New Zealand, Africa, and Southeast Asia.\n\nTime Matters for Windows has been shipping since 1994 (The DOS version of Time Matters started shipping in 1989).<ref name=\"http://www.timematters.com/\"></ref>\n\nTime Matters was previously available in three editions: Professional, Enterprise, and World. The Enterprise edition used Microsoft SQL Server as its database engine. Time Matters Browser Edition (formerly World Edition) served up Time Matters in Web browsers for remote access to a law firm's data. An international network of Certified Independent Consultants (\"CICs\") support, train, and customize this product for end users.\n\nTime Matters Professional, discontinued with the release of Time Matters 10.0 in 2009, was based on the TPS file system developed by Softvelocity. Time Matters Enterprise, now simply Time Matters, is based on SQL for its database and currently is limited to Microsoft SQL Server and SQL Express (also from Microsoft). None of the open-source SQL programs such as Postgresql and MySQL are currently supported.\n\nWith the release of Version 10 in October 2009, Time Matters became available only in the Enterprise Edition (but is sold as Time Matters). In May 2010, LexisNexis released their new Annual Maintenance Plan policy, which required users to be on the Annual Maintenance Plan to receive technical support, product upgrades and access to online training and support resources.\n\n\nIt should be noted that LexisNexis now requires users to purchase an annual maintenance and support contract in order to receive technical support. This support does also include recovery and reinstallation of a Time Matters server. No per incidence technical support options are available.\n\n"}
{"id": "3404021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3404021", "title": "Treaty of Wanghia", "text": "Treaty of Wanghia\n\nThe Treaty of Wanghia (also Treaty of Wangxia, Treaty of Peace, Amity, and Commerce, with tariff of duties, ) was a diplomatic agreement between Qing-dynasty China and the United States, signed on July 3, 1844 in the Kun Iam Temple. Its official title name is the Treaty of peace, amity, and commerce, between the United States of America and the Chinese Empire. Following passage by the U.S. Congress, it was ratified by President John Tyler on January 17, 1845. It is considered an unequal treaty by some Chinese.\n\nThe treaty was named after a village in northern Macau where the temple is located, called Mong Ha or Wang Hia (). It is now a part of the territory's Our Lady of Fátima Parish.\n\nThe United States was represented by Caleb Cushing, a Massachusetts lawyer dispatched by President John Tyler under pressure from American merchants concerned about the British dominance in Chinese trade. A physician and missionary, Peter Parker, served as Cushing's Chinese interpreter. The Qing Empire was represented by Keying, the Viceroy of Liangguang, who held responsibility for the provinces of Guangdong and Guangxi.\n\nThe treaty was modeled after the Treaties of Nanking and the Bogue between the UK and China, but differed in being more detailed. Among other things, it contained provisions for:\n\n\nThe United States also granted the Qing empire powers to confiscate American ships if operating outside treaty ports and withdrew consular protection in cases where American citizens were trading in opium under articles 3 and 33, respectively. Furthermore, the U.S. agreed to hand over any offenders to China.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1223466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1223466", "title": "Valech Report", "text": "Valech Report\n\nThe Valech Report (officially The National Commission on Political Imprisonment and Torture Report) was a record of abuses committed in Chile between 1973 and 1990 by agents of Augusto Pinochet's military regime. The report was published on November 29, 2004 and detailed the results of a six-month investigation. A revised version was released on June 1, 2005. The commission was reopened in February 2010 for eighteen months, adding more cases.\n\nThe commission found that 38,254 people had been imprisoned for political reasons and that most had been tortured. It also found that thirty people \"disappeared\" or had been executed in addition to those recorded by the earlier Rettig Report.\n\nTestimony has been classified, and will be kept secret for the next fifty years. Therefore, the records cannot be used in trials concerning human rights violations, in contrast to the \"Archives of Terror\" in Paraguay and Operation Condor. Associations of ex-political prisoners have been denied access to the testimony.\n\nThe report was prepared at the request of President Ricardo Lagos by the eight-member National Commission on Political Imprisonment and Torture headed by Bishop Sergio Valech and was made public via the Internet. The commission included: María Luisa Sepúlveda (executive vice president), lawyers Miguel Luis Amunátegui, Luciano Fouillioux, José Antonio Gómez (PRSD president), Lucas Sierra, Álvaro Varela and psychologist Elizabeth Lira. It did not include any representative of the victims or members of the associations of ex-political prisoners.\n\nThe initial report was based on testimony given to the commission by 35,865 people, of which 27,255 were regarded as \"direct victims\". Of these, 94% said they were tortured. Eleven people were born in prison, and ninety-one underage children were detained with their parents (including four unborn babies); these were not considered \"direct victims\". Another group of 978 people were minors at the time of their arrest. Four women were pregnant at the time of their arrest and were tortured; their children were considered \"direct victims\". A child who was the result of a rape while in prison was also considered a \"direct victim\". Victims were detained for six months, on average.\n\nOut of the more than 8,600 rejected cases, 7,290 people requested that their cases be revised. The commission also agreed to investigate a further 166 cases which were not considered the first time around. The updated report added 1,204 new cases, bringing the total number of victims to 28,459. The total number of arrests was 34,690; some people were detained multiple times.\n\nThe commission found that approximately 69% of arrests occurred between September 11 and December 31 of 1973, and 19% between January 1973 and August 1977.\n\nUnder the presidency of Michelle Bachelet the commission was reopened. It reviewed about 32,000 new requests from February 2010 to August 2011. It was to be open for twelve months but due to the high number of requests it was extended for an additional six months. 9,795 cases of torture and thirty cases of disappearances or executions were certified. The new report was presented to President Sebastián Piñera on August 18, 2011 and released on August 26, 2011.\n\nThe state provided lifelong monetary compensation to the victims as well as health and education benefits. These are detailed in Law 19,992 and include: a monthly payment of about 113,000 to 129,000 thousand Chilean pesos (in December 2004 prices, subsequently adjusted for inflation), depending on the victim's age; free public healthcare for victims and their parents, spouses or children under twenty-five, or incapacitated children of any age; free education (primary to tertiary) for victims whose studies were interrupted by their imprisonment.\n\nThere is also a special bonus of four million Chilean pesos for victim's children who were born in captivity or who were detained with their parents while they were minors.\n\nCritics of the Valech Report said that families were falsely claiming that their relatives went missing during the 1973–1990 military regime, as there had been reports since 2000 that four people, listed as killed or missing, were alive or had died in unrelated circumstances. These cases have raised questions about the system of verification of victims of dictatorships. \"The Age\" newspaper has reported that a total of 1,183 people were killed, or reported missing and presumed dead, and that their names appear on a special memorial at the General Cemetery of Santiago. Clive Foss, in \"The Tyrants: 2500 years of Absolute Power and Corruption\", estimates that 1,500 Chileans were killed or disappeared during the Pinochet regime. Nearly 700 civilians disappeared during the period between 1974 and 1977 after being detained by the Chilean military and police. In October 1979, \"The New York Times\" reported that Amnesty International had documented the disappearance of approximately 1,500 Chileans since 1973.\n\nAccording to the associations of ex-political prisoners, the commission used a different definition of torture than the one accepted by the United Nations. Using UN's definition of torture, would have meant there were about 400,000 victims of torture, but there is no clear source on how this estimate was made.) Most of those new cases of child victims had not been included in the first report because their parents were either executed political prisoners or among the \"disappeared\" detainees and there were no confirming witnesses. About two-thirds of the cases of abuse that were recognized by the commission took place during 1973.\n\nThe associations say that testimony was accepted under the following conditions:\n\nDetention had to have been for more than five days. (In 1986, in Santiago de Chile, 120,000 people were detained by the armed forces. Of those, 24,000 were detained by \"Carabineros\" (the Chilean police force) for a duration of four and a half days.) However, the Commission's requirement was not about the length of detention,the but about the political motivation for the detention or torture. In those cases where evidence of either was found, even if the period of detention was of few days, the testimony of those individuals was accepted (see article 1, paragraph 2 of Supreme Decree 1,040 of 2003, that created the Commission and established its mandate ).\n\nDetention must have been in one of the 1,200 official detention or torture centers listed by the Commission including: Villa Grimaldi, Colonia Dignidad, Víctor Jara Stadium or the Esmeralda floating center. Cases of torture in the streets or in vehicles were excluded. (Starting in the 1980s, the CNI, which succeeded DINA, no longer took victims to detention centers thus, say the associations, the fact that about two-thirds of the cases of abuse that were approved by the commission took place during 1973). The case of Carmen Gloria Quintana, who was burnt alive in the middle of the 1980s, was not recognized, following this definition of torture. This allegation is erroneous. There was no official list of detention centers where victims had to have been detained for their cases to be recognized. The list established by the Commission was the product of the testimony received despite the fact that previous lists of detention centers included most places. The difficulty in accepting testimony from people detained in vehicles or tortured on the street was in finding enough evidence to support their cases. Those cases where evidence was found of people being detained and tortured in police buses or other vehicles were accepted. Ms. Quintana contacted the Commission but did not testify before it.\n\nDetention must not have taken place in any country other than Chile. The associations underlined the fact that the commission worked for only six months, with very little publicity, despite the UN's demand that it accept testimony for a longer period. In some cases, in rural areas, victims who knew about the Commission had to give testimony to local civil servants who were part of the local governments when they were detained and tortured. When the Commission knew about this situation, it demanded the exclusion of those officers from the process and sent new teams to those areas. The Commission coordinated its work with all regional and national organizations of former political prisoners, and human rights organizations, to help contact their members, and others to give testimony. Advertisements were broadcast on national and local radio and television stations and published in national and local newspapers. (Commission's report pages 48 to 51, at www.comisiontortura.cl/filesapp/03_cap_ii.pdf) The number of individuals testifying is consistent with the geographic distribution of inhabitants in the capital city and the provinces. (Commission's report pages 69 and 70, at www.comisiontortura.cl/filesapp/03_cap_ii.pdf). The commission worked only during office hours, forcing victims to ask their employer for permission to testify. Insufficient psychological assistance was provided to the victims who had to relive their experiences, some of them suffering flashbacks, except referring statement givers to the Comprehensive Health Care Reparations Program (PRAIS), and some specialized mental health care NGOs were unable to meet the demand thus \"re-victimizing\" those individuals. Ex-political prisoners said that testimony from minors under eighteen years of age was refused because it was impossible for them to recall exactly the details of the place and time where they had been tortured. (Children, some of them five years old, and adolescents, had been tortured by the dictatorship).\n\nSixty percent of the ex-political prisoners were unemployed for at least two years according to studies made by ex-political prisoners' associations. Their life expectancy is only sixty to sixty-five years. Switzerland and Argentina have recently refused to extradite two ex-political prisoner to Chile, on the grounds that they might be subject to \"mistreatment\" in Chile.\n\nUntil May 2012, seventy-six agents had been condemned for human rights violations and sixty-seven were convicted: thirty-six from the Army, twenty-seven Carabineros, two from the Air Force, one from the Navy, and one of the PDI. Three condemned agents died and six agents got conditional sentences. The Chilean justice system holds 350 open cases of \"disappeared\" persons, illegal detainees, and torture victims during the dictatorial rule. These cases involve 700 military and civilian personnel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5137560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5137560", "title": "Warrantless searches in the United States", "text": "Warrantless searches in the United States\n\nWarrantless searches are searches and seizures conducted without search warrants.\n\nIn the United States, warrantless searches are restricted under the Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution, part of the Bill of Rights, which provides that, \"The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized.\"\n\nIn the Thirteen Colonies, agents of the British Empire utilized general warrants to authorize searches in the homes of colonists – such warrants allowed any place to be searched for any thing at any time, all at the whim of the holder. They were viewed as abuses of power, contributing to increased tensions that ultimately led to the American Revolution. The Fourth Amendment barred all warrantless searches and all general warrants; nevertheless, the interpretation and limitations of the Fourth Amendment and the permissibility of warrantless searches under certain circumstances (such as wartime) have been important in the history of executive and judicial power in the United States.\n\nDuring the American Revolutionary War, \"the Continental Congress regularly received quantities of intercepted British and Tory mail\". See intelligence in the American Revolutionary War.\n\nIn 1975, the Church Committee, a United States Senate select committee chaired by Frank Church of Idaho, a Democrat, investigated domestic and foreign Cold War area intelligence-gathering by the federal government, including warrantless surveillance on anti-war advocates inside America. The committee report found the \"Americans who violated no criminal law and represented no genuine threat to the 'national security' have been targeted, regardless of the stated predicate. In many cases, the implementation of wiretaps and bugs has also been fraught with procedural violations, even when the required procedures were meager, thus compounding the abuse. The inherently intrusive nature of electronic surveillance, moreover, has enabled the Government to generate vast amounts of information – unrelated to any legitimate governmental interest – about the personal and political lives of American citizens.\"\n\nThe \"potential criminal liability of the National Security Agency and the Central Intelligence Agency for operations such as SHAMROCK (interception of all international cable traffic from 1945 to 1975) and MINARET (use of watchlists of U.S. dissidents and potential civil disturbers to provide intercept information to law enforcement agencies from 1969 to 1973)\" helped persuade president Gerald Ford in 1976 to seek surveillance legislation, which was ultimately enacted as Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act in 1978.\n\nAbuses of power by the federal government led to reform legislation in the 1970s. Advancing technology began to present questions not directly addressed by the legislation as early as 1985.\n\nIn its 1985 report \"Electronic Surveillance and Civil Liberties\", the nonpartisan Congressional Office of Technology Assessment suggested legislation be considered for a surveillance oversight board. Congress disbanded this agency in 1995.\n\nOn July 14, 1994, President Clinton's Deputy Attorney General and later 9/11 Commission member Jamie Gorelick testified to the Senate Intelligence Committee that \"The Department of Justice believes, and the case law supports, that the president has inherent authority to conduct warrantless physical searches for foreign intelligence purposes … and that the president may, as has been done, delegate this authority to the Attorney General.\" This \"inherent authority\" was used to search the home of CIA spy Aldrich Ames without a warrant. \"It is important to understand\", Gorelick continued, \"that the rules and methodology for criminal searches are inconsistent with the collection of foreign intelligence and would unduly frustrate the president in carrying out his foreign intelligence responsibilities\".\n\nOn December 16, 2005, the \"New York Times\" printed a story asserting that following 9/11, \"President Bush secretly authorized the National Security Agency to eavesdrop on Americans and others inside the United States to search for evidence of terrorist activity without the court-approved warrants ordinarily required for domestic spying\", as part of the War on Terrorism: \n\nThe revelation of this program caused a widespread controversy, with legal experts and politicians concluding that it violates the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act and other legal experts saying that the FISA law only applied to domestic calls and not to overseas calls and communications that involved a foreign intelligence threat. Bush administration officials such as the Attorney General defended the program by citing that this was a part of the justification that the Clinton administration used in its warrantless search of Aldrich Ames. They claimed that since Ames was spying for a foreign power, presidential power applied and FISA did not.\n\nIn May 2006, it was revealed that the Bush administration had also been compiling a database of telephone calls, created by the National Security Agency (NSA) with the cooperation of three of the largest telephone carriers in the United States: AT&T, Verizon, and BellSouth. All three companies were paid to provide the information to the NSA. It is speculated that the database contains over 1.9 trillion call-detail records of phone calls made after September 11, 2001. The database's existence prompted fierce objection from those who viewed it as a warrantless or illegal search – nevertheless, the collection of such third-party information has been authorized by the USA PATRIOT Act, and has been upheld by the courts.\n\nIn a 2002 opinion entitled \"\", the United States Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court of Review examined all the significant appellate decisions. The court noted all the Federal courts of appeal having looked at the issue had concluded that there was such constitutional power. Furthermore, if there was such power, \"FISA could not encroach on the president's constitutional power\", However, In Re Sealed Case \"[took] for granted\" that these cases are correct:\n\nThe \"balancing test drawn from \"Keith\"\" is a reference to \"United States v. U.S. District Court\", in which the Supreme Court of the United States established a legal test to determine whether the primary use of the warrantless search was to collect foreign intelligence, as per presidential authority, or whether that primary use is to gather evidence for use in a criminal trial.\n\nThe warrant requirement of the Fourth Amendment is not absolute, and a number of exceptions to that requirement have been recognized by the courts, based upon such factors as whether it is reasonable under the circumstances for officers to obtain a warrant, and whether evidence might be lost or destroyed before a warrant can be obtained.\n\nCommon exceptions include:\n\n"}
