{"id": "3453719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3453719", "title": "ASA style", "text": "ASA style\n\nASA style is a widely accepted format for writing university research papers in the field of sociology. It specifies the arrangement and punctuation of footnotes and bibliographies. Standards for ASA style are specified in the ASA Style Guide, which is published by the American Sociological Association, the main scholarly organization for academic sociologists in the United States. The \"ASA Style Guide\", published by the American Sociological Association, is designed to aid authors preparing manuscripts for ASA journals and publications.\n\nASA style is closely related in appearance and function to APA (American Psychological Association) style. As with APA style, the general format for citing references is parenthetical referencing. All references are to be included at the end of the paper in a section titled \"References,\" rather than \"Works Cited\" as in MLA style. Also unlike MLA style, parenthetical references include the year of publication. The \"author-date\" in text citation system is a readily recognizable feature of ASA style. This emphasis on dates is carried over into the references section, where the date is the first piece of information to follow the author's or authors' name(s).\n\nASA style is supported by most major reference management software programs, including Endnote, Procite, Zotero, Refworks, and so forth, making the formatting of references a fairly straightforward task.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2851214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2851214", "title": "Absolute dating", "text": "Absolute dating\n\nAbsolute dating is the process of determining an age on a specified chronology in archaeology and geology. Some scientists prefer the terms chronometric or calendar dating, as use of the word \"absolute\" implies an unwarranted certainty of accuracy. Absolute dating provides a numerical age or range in contrast with relative dating which places events in order without any measure of the age between events.\n\nIn archaeology, absolute dating is usually based on the physical, chemical, and life properties of the materials of artifacts, buildings, or other items that have been modified by humans and by historical associations with materials with known dates (coins and written history). Techniques include tree rings in timbers, radiocarbon dating of wood or bones, and trapped-charge dating methods such as thermoluminescence dating of glazed ceramics. Coins found in excavations may have their production date written on them, or there may be written records describing the coin and when it was used, allowing the site to be associated with a particular calendar year.\n\nIn historical geology, the primary methods of absolute dating involve using the radioactive decay of elements trapped in rocks or minerals, including isotope systems from very young (radiocarbon dating with ) to systems such as uranium–lead dating that allow acquisition of absolute ages for some of the oldest rocks on earth.\n\nRadiometric dating is based on the known and constant rate of decay of radioactive isotopes into their radiogenic daughter isotopes. Particular isotopes are suitable for different applications due to the type of atoms present in the mineral or other material and its approximate age. For example, techniques based on isotopes with half lives in the thousands of years, such as Carbon-14, cannot be used to date materials that have ages on the order of billions of years, as the detectable amounts of the radioactive atoms and their decayed daughter isotopes will be too small to measure within the uncertainty of the instruments.\n\nOne of the most widely used and well-known absolute dating techniques is carbon-14 (or radiocarbon) dating, which is used to date organic remains. This is a radiometric technique since it is based on radioactive decay. Cosmic radiation entering the earth’s atmosphere produces carbon-14, and plants take in carbon-14 as they fix carbon dioxide. Carbon-14 moves up the food chain as animals eat plants and as predators eat other animals. With death, the uptake of carbon-14 stops. \n\nIt takes 5,730 years for half the carbon-14 to change to nitrogen; this is the half-life of carbon-14. After another 5,730 years only one-quarter of the original carbon-14 will remain. After yet another 5,730 years only one-eighth will be left. \n\nBy measuring the carbon-14 in organic material, scientists can determine the date of death of the organic matter in an artifact or ecofact.\n\nThe relatively short half-life of carbon-14, 5,730 years, makes the reliable only up to about 50,000 years. The technique often cannot pinpoint the date of an archeological site better than historic records, but is highly effective for precise dates when calibrated with other dating techniques such as tree-ring dating.\n\nAn additional problem with carbon-14 dates from archeological sites is known as the \"old wood\" problem. It is possible, particularly in dry, desert climates, for organic materials such as from dead trees to remain in their natural state for hundreds of years before people use them as firewood or building materials, after which they become part of the archaeological record. Thus dating that particular tree does not necessarily indicate when the fire burned or the structure was built. \n\nFor this reason, many archaeologists prefer to use samples from short-lived plants for radiocarbon dating. The development of accelerator mass spectrometry (AMS) dating, which allows a date to be obtained from a very small sample, has been very useful in this regard.\n\nOther radiometric dating techniques are available for earlier periods. One of the most widely used is potassium–argon dating (K–Ar dating). Potassium-40 is a radioactive isotope of potassium that decays into argon-40. The half-life of potassium-40 is 1.3 billion years, far longer than that of carbon-14, allowing much older samples to be dated. Potassium is common in rocks and minerals, allowing many samples of geochronological or archeological interest to be dated. \n\nArgon, a noble gas, is not commonly incorporated into such samples except when produced \"in situ\" through radioactive decay. The date measured reveals the last time that the object was heated past the closure temperature at which the trapped argon can escape the lattice. K–Ar dating was used to calibrate the geomagnetic polarity time scale.\n\nThermoluminescence testing also dates items to the last time they were heated. This technique is based on the principle that all objects absorb radiation from the environment. This process frees electrons within minerals that remain caught within the item. \n\nHeating an item to 500 degrees Celsius or higher releases the trapped electrons, producing light. This light can be measured to determine the last time the item was heated.\n\nRadiation levels do not remain constant over time. Fluctuating levels can skew results – for example, if an item went through several high radiation eras, thermoluminescence will return an older date for the item. Many factors can spoil the sample before testing as well, exposing the sample to heat or direct light may cause some of the electrons to dissipate, causing the item to date younger.\n\nBecause of these and other factors, Thermoluminescence is at the most about 15% accurate. It cannot be used to accurately date a site on its own. However, it can be used to confirm the antiquity of an item.\n\nOptically stimulated luminescence (OSL) dating constrains the time at which sediment was last exposed to light. During sediment transport, exposure to sunlight 'zeros' the luminescence signal. Upon burial, the sediment accumulates a luminescence signal as natural ambient radiation gradually ionises the mineral grains. \n\nCareful sampling under dark conditions allows the sediment to be exposed to artificial light in the laboratory which releases the OSL signal. The amount of luminescence released is used to calculate the equivalent dose (De) that the sediment has acquired since deposition, which can be used in combination with the dose rate (Dr) to calculate the age.\n\nDendrochronology or tree-ring dating is the scientific method of dating based on the analysis of patterns of tree rings, also known as growth rings. Dendrochronology can date the time at which tree rings were formed, in many types of wood, to the exact calendar year. \n\nDendrochronology has three main areas of application: paleoecology, where it is used to determine certain aspects of past ecologies (most prominently climate); archaeology, where it is used to date old buildings, etc.; and radiocarbon dating, where it is used to calibrate radiocarbon ages (see below).\n\nIn some areas of the world, it is possible to date wood back a few thousand years, or even many thousands. Currently, the maximum for fully anchored chronologies is a little over 11,000 years from present.\n\nAmino acid dating is a dating technique used to estimate the age of a specimen in paleobiology, archaeology, forensic science, taphonomy, sedimentary geology and other fields. This technique relates changes in amino acid molecules to the time elapsed since they were formed. All biological tissues contain amino acids. All amino acids except glycine (the simplest one) are optically active, having an asymmetric carbon atom. This means that the amino acid can have two different configurations, \"D\" or \"L\" which are mirror images of each other. \n\nWith a few important exceptions, living organisms keep all their amino acids in the \"L\" configuration. When an organism dies, control over the configuration of the amino acids ceases, and the ratio of D to L moves from a value near 0 towards an equilibrium value near 1, a process called racemization. Thus, measuring the ratio of D to L in a sample enables one to estimate how long ago the specimen died.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12894139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12894139", "title": "Ahu Akivi", "text": "Ahu Akivi\n\nAhu Akivi is a particular sacred place in Rapa Nui (or Easter Island) in the Valparaíso Region of Chile, looking out towards the Pacific Ocean. The site has seven moai, all of equal shape and size, and is also known as a celestial observatory that was set up around the 16th century. The site is located inland, rather than along the coast. Moai statues were considered by the early people of Rapa Nui as their ancestors or Tupuna that were believed to be the reincarnation of important kings or leaders of their clans. The Moais were erected to protect and bring prosperity to their clan and village.\n\nA particular feature of the seven identical moai statues is that they exactly face sunset during the Spring Equinox and have their backs to the sunrise during the Autumn Equinox. Such an astronomically precise feature is seen only at this location on the island.\n\nAhu Akivi, aligned in an east–west direction, is located on the flank of the southern slope of Maunga Terevaka at Rapauni and it is surrounded by fairly flat agricultural land. It is inland in the non coastal zone and is at an elevation of . Ahu Vai Teka is at a distance of from Ahu Kavi which is considered as part of the Ahu Akivi-Ahu Kavi complex.\n\nFrom Hanga Roa, an inland road leads to the site via the volcanic cone of Terevaka ( peak level). The coast road is via Playa Anakena. On this road there are many moi statues lying scattered and un restored. There are paths branching off to Puna Pau, which is a quarry of low volcanic crater with red coloured rocks known as scoria, which has been used to carve 70 of the \"top hat\" of the statues known as pukao which could be cylindrical top knot of hair or grass hat or turban. Further on, the site of Ahu Akivi is reached. The site is located to the Northeast of Hanga Roa, the capital city of Easter Island, about to its north.\nThe Rano Raraku quarry from where the statues were made is at least away and free access is through the land route held by the clans.\n\nAhu Akivi is part of the Ahu Akivi-Vai Teka complex which was built up by the Rapa Nui people in two phases. In the first phase, during the 16th century a central rectangular platform was created on a leveled surface. It had wings projecting to the north and the south directions. An approach ramp was also part of this platform which led to the ceremonial plaza stretching towards the west of the central platform. A cremation ground existed behind the central platform. The second phase of construction was elaborately planned and implemented in the early years of the 17th century when the platform was modified, a ramp was created, seven statues of equal size were erected. Another crematorium was also built. A cave in which people used to reside was also used as tomb during historic times.\n\nThe other Ahu in the complex is the Ahu Vai Teka, which is a much smaller platform of length made up of rough lava stone blocks. There is no statue now, though one is believed to have existed initially. Both the ahus were believed to have been aligned astronomically with respect to the Sun. Both are located in the territory of the Miru, the highest ranking clan and the western confederacy, and both were contemporary. It is also conjectured that the seven statues were placed at Ahu Akivi at least 150 years before the first Europeans found the island when the clan was functional at that time. It is also evident that their culture existed for 250–300 years with economic prosperity with political stability.\n\nIn 1955, Thor Heyerdahl recruited American archaeologist William Mulloy and his Chilean associate, Gonzalo Figueroa García-Huidobro, who restored the statues to their original position; they had found them in knocked down condition in 1960. Mulloy's work on the Akivi-Vaiteka Complex was supported by the Fulbright Foundation and by grants from the University of Wyoming, the University of Chile and the International Fund for Monuments. Ahu Akivi also gives its name to one of the seven regions of Rapa Nui National Park.\n\nThe statues on the island invariably faced the village as a protective mana, but in the case of the Ahu Akivi statues they face towards the sea. There is a legend narrated for this positioning of the seven statues. It is conjectured that the Rapanui people did it to propitiate the sea to help the navigators. However, according to an oral tradition, Hotu Matu’s priest had a dream in which the King's soul flew across the ocean when the Rapa Nui island was seen by him. He then sent scouts navigating across the sea to locate the island and to find people to settle there. Seven of these scouts stayed back on the island waiting for the king to arrive. These seven are represented by the seven stone statues erected in their honour.\n\nThe architectural features of an Ahu platform were discerned by archaeologists, depending on its length under five categories. These are: A central platform of varying length; platform made of crude masonry in its rear wall or with fine masonry in the rear wall; with or without wings; with one or more statues; a red scoria top knot (headgear), ramp, a crematoriums plaza pavement, crafted front retaining wall, a cornice made of red scoria. In the case of the Ahu Akivi all these features have been noted except that the rear part of the platform is made of crude masonry wall. Another feature of the foundation of the platform is that the stones used to make it are not from the island but were brought as ballast in the 19th century in a ship.\n\nApart from the above, archeologists also unearthed stone disks, small statues, and fish hooks made of stones and bones indicative of burial ceremonies that were performed at the site.\n\nThe seven moai statues are located with absolute astronomical precision. Thus, the sacred observatory and sanctuary with all the seven moai look exactly towards the point where the sun sets during the equinox and which also aligns with the Moon. Each one is of height and weighs about 18 tons, and its length is .\n\nDuring the excavations done here, the archaeologists also found tree root moulds, indicative of vegetative cover in the past.\n\nIn 1960, when the American archaeologist and his associate carried out restoration, it took them one month to rise and fix the first moai in place. They used a stone ramp and two wooden levers to carry out this operation. However, they took less than a week to raise the seventh one.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19022065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19022065", "title": "American entry into Canada by land", "text": "American entry into Canada by land\n\nU.S. citizens and permanent residents entering Canada by land are required to possess the requisite documentation, and to meet other criteria before they are allowed entry into Canada. Consequently, travelers must also meet the requirements for re-entering the U.S. at the end of their visit.\n\nEntry into Canada is solely determined by Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA) officials in accordance with Canadian law. Visitors are required to have the necessary travel documentation and be in good health. If asked, they must satisfy an immigration officer of ties to their country of origin, such as a job, home, and family. They must also satisfy the officer that they will leave Canada at the end of their visit. Additionally, they must have sufficient money for their stay, and all items belonging to an individual, including the vehicle the individual may be traveling in, are subject to search by the CBSA. \n\nCanadian law requires that all persons entering Canada must carry proof of both citizenship and identity. A valid U.S. passport or passport card is preferred, although a birth certificate, naturalization certificate, citizenship certificate, or another document proving U.S. nationality, together with a government-issued photo ID (such as a driver's license) are acceptable to establish identity and nationality. However, the documents required to return to the United States can be more restrictive (for example, a birth certificate and photo ID are insufficient) – see the section below on Return entry into the U.S.\n\nAn enhanced driver's license (EDL), currently issued by the states of Michigan, Minnesota, New York, Vermont, and Washington, is specifically designed to meet the requirements of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI) to re-enter the United States via a land or water border. An EDL will also suffice as proof of identity and citizenship for American citizens entering Canada by road.\n\nNEXUS is a joint U S./Canadian program for pre-approved, low-risk travelers and requires an extensive background check and face to face interview with border officials of both nations. FAST (Free and Secure Trade) is the equivalent for international truck drivers. Membership in either program can expedite border clearance through the use of dedicated lanes.\n\nUnited States permanent residents are required to show their Permanent Resident Card (green card). No passport or visa is required.\n\nChildren under 16 need only present proof of U.S. citizenship. Nevertheless, it is recommended that identification for children be carried anyway. Any person under 18 traveling alone requires a letter from a parent or guardian granting permission to travel to Canada. The letter must state the traveler's name and the duration of the trip.\n\nA divorced parent who has or shares custody of a child should carry a copy of the custody document. An adult who is not the parent or legal guardian of a child they are accompanying should have written permission from the parents or guardians to supervise the child. When traveling in a group of vehicles, parents or guardians should be in the same vehicle as their children when arriving at the border. CBSA personnel are looking for missing children and may question adults about children traveling with them.\n\nPersons driving into Canada must have their vehicle's registration document and proof of insurance.\n\nA visa is not required for U.S. citizens to visit Canada for up to 180 days. Anyone seeking to enter Canada for any purpose besides a visit (e.g. to work, study or immigrate) must qualify for the appropriate entry status and can see the Canadian immigration website. The Canadian embassy or nearest consulate can be contacted for additional information.\n\nSome persons are inadmissible—they are not allowed to enter Canada.\n\n, if a person is denied entry and advised to re-enter the U.S., they are issued form IMM 1282B. This form indicates that the person is allowed to withdraw their application to enter Canada, and is allowed to leave Canada. Persons who have been denied entry and provided this form are advised by the CBSA to show this form to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP). There appears to be no legal precedent, however, for the traveler to voluntarily submit this form to the CBP, and doing so may cause the CBP to consider the traveler suspicious, and as a result they may subject the traveler to exhaustive questioning and search. Information about the denial of entry may nevertheless be automatically and immediately available to the CBP.\n\nIndividuals may be refused entry to or removed from Canada on the following grounds:\n\n\nPersons can be denied entry into Canada on the basis of suspicion alone. In particular, the CBSA may deny entry to persons they doubt will be able to support themselves and their dependents, or whose willingness and means to return to the U.S. is in doubt. Certain documents, such as the following, can serve to reduce these doubts:\n\n\nA single criminal conviction, no matter how minor or how long ago, is grounds for exclusion from Canada. With the exception of civil traffic violations such as speeding, and some municipal ordinance infractions (which are typically not handled through the legal system) such as parking violations or littering, persons with a conviction must either have received a pardon, applied for and been accepted for rehabilitation, met the requirement to be considered deemed rehabilitated, or if ineligible for rehabilitation or deemed rehabilitated status, apply for and receive a temporary resident permit (a special type of visa) to enter Canada.\n\nIndividuals with a criminal conviction that has been expunged are allowed entry into Canada. Since the criminal database might not be up-to-date, it is best to have paperwork of the expungement to guarantee entry. A letter from an attorney will suffice.\n\nTo be a candidate for rehabilitation, at least five years (or more depending on the severity of the offense) since the conclusion of any sentence imposed (imprisonment, probation, fine paid, suspension of driver's license, etc ... ) must have elapsed. Due to differences between legal systems, an overturned conviction or dismissed charges does not automatically overcome inadmissibility, unless the offense itself occurred in Canada. However, applicants in either of these situations can use an abbreviated process and the five-year waiting period generally does not apply. In simple cases, such as a single misdemeanor conviction, the application can typically be reviewed and approved by a Canadian Embassy, High Counsel, or CIC office. For more complicated histories or in the case of a felony conviction, the application will need to be forwarded to Ottawa for approval. Processing time in either case can take several months to a year or more, so it is advisable to begin the process of applying for rehabilitation well in advance of any planned travel to Canada. Factors considered when determining whether to approve an application for rehabilitation or not include the nature of the offense, the time elapsed and one's behavior since the offense was committed or since the sentence. Applicants are required to obtain clearances from law enforcement in the communities in which they have lived, and are strongly urged to submit documentation showing stability and reform such as records of employment and any education or treatment programs completed, as well as character references.\n\nA person with a past conviction can also be \"deemed rehabilitated\" by an immigration officer at the port of entry. Ten years must have elapsed since the conclusion of any sentence imposed and other criteria must be satisfied. Persons attempting to enter under the deemed rehabilitated system should also bring law enforcement clearances, documents showing a stable and reformed life, and character references, as the decision as to whether to admit someone as deemed rehabilitated is completely at the discretion of the border official and there is no recourse or right of appeal should deemed rehabilitated status be denied. It should be noted that anyone with a \"felony\" conviction (unless a pardon was granted) cannot be deemed rehabilitated and must instead apply for rehabilitation or a temporary resident permit.\n\nTemporary resident permits are a one-time authorization for someone who is otherwise criminally inadmissible to enter Canada. Permits are rarely granted without cause, typically only in extenuating circumstances (such as a documented family emergency), on significant humanitarian grounds (such as sponsoring an inadmissible spouse or child), or for reasons of Canadian national interest, or in circumstances where the reasons for criminal inadmissibility are negligible. TRP's are usually issued with varying restrictions and can be revoked if deemed necessary. Temporary resident permits can, however, be obtained by an individual who has a criminal record if it can be proven that he has been rehabilitated and is able to demonstrate that the need for him to enter Canada outweighs any risk that he may cause to Canada.\n\nIf an individual is deemed inadmissible, members of his or her family \"may\" also be deemed inadmissible solely based on that fact.\n\nIn theory, a person is not inadmissible if they were convicted of a crime before the age of 18 and were tried as a young offender or through the juvenile justice system. If the person in question \"could\" have been tried as an adult (which is frequently the case in the US, where minors as young as 8 can be tried as an adult), regardless of whether they actually were or not, they are inadmissible.\n\nFirearms are much more strictly controlled in Canada than in the U.S. Visitors bringing any firearms into Canada, or planning to borrow and use firearms while in Canada, are required to declare the firearms in writing using a Non-Resident Firearm Declaration form. Multiple firearms can be declared at the same time. Upon acceptance, this declaration serves as a temporary license and registration certificate for up to 60 days. The Non-Resident Firearm Declaration has a cost of $25 (Canadian). Visitors planning to borrow a firearm in Canada are required to obtain in advance a Temporary Firearms Borrowing License, the cost of which is $30 (Canadian), payable at the border. These forms are required to be signed before a CBSA officer at the border. Note that the forms are not available at the border itself. Details and downloadable forms are provided by the Canadian Firearms Program.\n\nCanada has three classes of firearms: non-restricted, restricted, and prohibited. Non-restricted firearms include most ordinary hunting rifles and shotguns. These can be brought temporarily into Canada for sporting or hunting use during hunting season, use in competitions, in-transit movement through Canada, or personal protection against wildlife in remote areas of Canada. Any person wishing to bring a hunting rifle into Canada is required to be at least 18 years old, and the firearm must be properly stored for transport. Restricted firearms are primarily handguns. A restricted firearm may be brought into Canada, but an Authorization to Transport permit must be obtained in advance from a Chief Firearms Officer. Prohibited firearms include fully automatic, converted automatics and assault-type weapons. Prohibited firearms are not allowed into Canada. A comprehensive guide on importation of firearms and weapons is published by the CBSA.\n\nIt is recommended that the Canadian embassy or a consulate, or the Canadian Firearms Program be contacted for detailed information and instructions on temporarily importing firearms in advance of any travel. In all cases, travelers are required to declare to Canadian authorities any firearms and weapons in their possession when entering Canada. If a traveler is denied permission to bring in the firearm, there may be facilities near border crossings where firearms may be stored, pending the traveler's return to the U.S. Canadian law requires that officials confiscate firearms and weapons from those crossing the border that deny having them in their possession. Confiscated firearms and weapons are never returned. Possession of an undeclared firearm can result in a five-year prison sentence.\n\nFood, plants, animals and related products are required to be declared when entering Canada using a declaration form. Once declared, a CBSA officer will ask questions about these items, such as their country of origin or intended use. The items may be inspected. Non-allowable items are either seized, disposed of, or ordered removed from Canada.\n\nA failure to declare can lead to confiscation of products, fines of up to $400 (Canadian) per undeclared item, as well as prosecution. Persons wishing to dispose product needing declaration can do so in product disposal bins.\n\nElectronic media of travelers entering Canada can be randomly checked. Computers and mobile phone are subject to search without a warrant at the border, and illegal content can result in the seizure of the electronic device as well as detention, arrest and prosecution of the bearer. Agents may access or otherwise view contents of online accounts and services if your electronic device contains saved passwords or access tokens.\n\nCertain weapons that may be legal to possess in the U.S. are prohibited weapons in Canada, most notably pepper spray, mace and Tasers. Under the Canadian \"Criminal Code\", a person can face a maximum of five years in prison for unauthorized possession and five years for unauthorized importation of an illegal weapon. If, however, it can be proven that the person, despite knowing that its importation or possession is illegal, imports or possess a prohibited weapon, the maximum penalty increases to ten years imprisonment.\n\nCanadian law prohibits the unlawful importation or trafficking of controlled substances and narcotics. A number of travelers, including Americans, have been arrested for attempting to smuggle khat, an herbal stimulant from East Africa, into Canada. Smugglers risk substantial fines, a permanent bar from Canada, and imprisonment.\n\nIt is recommended that prescription medicines be in their original prescription container. Suspicious looking or unidentifiable pills found during a search can be tested for narcotics. Entry into Canada can be delayed until the tests have completed. Moreover, their discovery can lead to being denied entry even if the tests passed.\n\nA person or organization may disagree with the CBSA about an assessment or decision made by the CBSA. If at the border, the Border Services Officer (BSO) or superintendent can be consulted. To address disagreements afterwards, a CBSA office can be contacted.\n\nPersons who believe that they have not received their full entitlements under Canadian law, and have been unable to reach an agreement with the CBSA on a duty or penalty matter, have the right to a formal review of their file. A formal review is conducted by appeals representatives who were not involved in the original decision, and is impartial. Appeals staff are trained to review the client's and the CBSA's facts and reasons.\n\nThe role of the appeals representative who reviews a case is to carry out a complete, professional, and impartial review. This representative reviews the case by interpreting acts administered by the CBSA and reviewing CBSA policies, considering the appellant's point of view; and when necessary, asking for a technical opinion from CBSA experts or seeking legal advice from the Canadian Department of Justice.\n\nThe representative who reviews the case will not have been involved in the original assessment, determination, or ruling of a duty, penalty or other matter. The appellant can discuss the case with an appeals representative, and has the right to obtain certain documents related to the case.\n\nThe CBSA does not charge for a review. If a person is not satisfied with the review, a further appeal can be made to the appropriate court or, to the Canadian International Trade Tribunal for relevant matters.\n\nA business visitor is someone who comes to Canada to engage in international business activities without directly entering the Canadian labor market. Such visitors may be in Canada for business meetings or site visits (to observe only), but not to work. Business visitors are required to prove that their main source of income and their main place of business are outside Canada.\n\nA visa is not required for a business visitor who is an American citizen. All business visitors are required to have a passport valid until the end of their stay, a letter of support from their parent company, a letter of invitation from the Canadian host business, a copy of any contracts or bills to support the visit, 24-hour contact details of the business host in Canada, and proof of enough money for both the stay in Canada and the return home. Business visitors do not need a temporary work permit unless they plan on doing executive, managerial, technical or production work.\n\nBeginning in 2009, U.S. citizens aged 16 and older traveling into the U.S. from Canada by land or sea (including ferries) have had to present documents denoting citizenship and identity, which include a valid U.S. passport, U.S. passport card, Trusted Traveler Program card (NEXUS, SENTRI, Global Entry or FAST), an Enhanced Driver's License, U.S. Military identification card when traveling on official orders, U.S. Merchant Mariner document when traveling in conjunction with official maritime business, Form I-872 American Indian Card, or (when available) Enhanced Tribal Card. Children under age 16 (or under 19, if traveling with a school, religious group, or other youth group) need only to present a birth certificate issued by an appropriate state or local authority, or a Naturalization Certificate. \n\nPersons who do not present acceptable documents may be delayed as U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers at the port of entry attempt to verify identity and citizenship.\n\nThe U.S. Customs and Border Protection has the authority from the U.S. Congress to conduct searches of persons and their baggage, cargo, and means of transportation entering the United States. Persons unhappy with their treatment can ask to have a supervisor listen to their comments, or can make a complaint online.\n\nPersons whose vehicles are searched can be asked to leave their phones in the car. There exists the potential of data on a phone or laptop being collected, rapidly copied and searched. Contrary to Fourth Amendment protections, persons including U.S. citizens can be detained until they unlock their device so it can be searched. It is recommended that an alternative phone be used and that it be reset before entering the country.\n\nCertain items such as monetary instruments over U.S. $10,000, hunting trophies, and firearms require a declaration. Prescription medicines are required to be in their original prescription container. Prohibited items include absinthe, biological materials, Cuban cigars and other products of Cuba, endangered species and products thereof; explosives, including fireworks; some fruits, vegetables, and meats; narcotics and paraphernalia, pornographic materials, seditious or treasonable matter, and switchblade knives (except by one-armed persons). Pets must be accompanied with a valid rabies vaccination certificate.\n\nWait times for vehicles at popular border crossings can sometimes be excessive on either side of the border. It is recommended that the estimated wait time be checked in advance of travel. These are provided by both the CBSA and the CBP.\n\nBoth the U.S. and Canadian governments urge frequent travelers to join the NEXUS trusted traveler program. NEXUS members receive a card that allows expedited border crossings for both private and commercial travelers through both U.S. and Canada border controls quickly.\n\n\n "}
{"id": "19815863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19815863", "title": "Americo Paredes", "text": "Americo Paredes\n\nAmérico Paredes (September 3, 1915 – May 5, 1999) was a Mexican-American author born in Brownsville, Texas who authored several text focusing on the border life that existed between the United States and Mexico, particularly around the Rio Grande region of South Texas. His family on his father’s side, however, had been in the Americas since 1580. His ancestors were \"sefarditas\", or Spanish Jews who had been converted to Christianity, and in 1749 - along with Escandon - they settled in the lower Rio Grande. The year of Paredes’ birth was the year of the last Texas Mexican Uprising, which was to portend the life Paredes was to lead. Throughout his long career as a journalist, folklorist and professor, Paredes was to bring focus to his Mexican American heritage, and the beauty of those traditions. \n\nGrowing up in Brownsville, Texas, Paredes was to experience the double life of American and Mexican culture. Paredes was a lover both of Edgar Rice Burroughs’ Tarzan books and of Mexican poetry—his father composed \"décimas\" (a ten line poem with set rhyme scheme). This love of poetry was to hold Paredes in good stead when, at the age of 18, he won a poetry contest sponsored by Trinity College. This award was to gain him the attention of the high school principal, Mr. Irvine, who in turn, expedited his entrance into junior college in 1934. The same year Paredes entered college, an event that would mark his life occurred, the assassination of Cesar Augusto Sandino, about whom, five years later, Paredes would write “A Cesar Augusto Sandino.”\n\nWhile in his second year of junior college, Paredes was also to write \"George Washington Gomez: A Mexico-Texan Novel\". Although it was not published until 1990, \"George Washington Gomez\" is Paredes' most well known work. The novel tells the story of a young man growing up in early 20th-century Jonesville on the River (a fictional city Paredes used to represent the city of Brownsville) and reveals the conflict in identity (as the title name suggests) the young man experiences growing up in an Anglo-Texan environment, particularly with regards to the educational system.\n\nWhile in college, Paredes worked not only at the local grocery store (where he bought his first guitar from a co-worker), but also as a proofreader and reporter at \"The Brownsville Herald\", a job he kept even after graduation in 1936. In 1940, as World War II began for the Americans, Paredes took a second job with Pan-American Airways overseeing the outfitting of airplanes with fifty-caliber machine guns. Simultaneously, he began playing guitar on the radio, a talent he had taught himself during junior college. As World War II heated up, Paredes was drafted into the army, but even there he was a journalist, reporting for the army publication \"Stars and Stripes\", a publication which—while in Japan—allowed him to interview military leader Hideki Tōjō. Also in Japan, Paredes took correspondence courses from the University of Texas, through an army school, affectionately referred to as the Tokyo College. By 1950, Paredes had moved to Austin to pursue first his masters and then his Ph.D. When he returned to the United States, he brought with him his half-Japanese, half-Uruguayan wife Amelia Nagamine, whose visa issues almost stopped his education. By 1951, Paredes was teaching as a graduate student at the University of Texas and drawing attention. In 1952 he would win an award from the \"Dallas Times Herald\" for a collection of short stories he had selected from his larger work, \"The Hammon and The Beans\". He called it \"Border Country\". In 1955, he won an award of 500 dollars for his novel \"The Shadow\", although this book would not be published until 1998.\n\nIn his graduate school years it would be a twist of fate that would lead Paredes down the road of folklore. While taking English courses during his masters, he encountered a test comparing two Scottish ballads, which Paredes was to compare to the Mexican corrido (a comparison that would crop up again in his dissertation of \"With His Pistol in His Hand\"). His professor at the time introduced him to Robert Stephenson, then a professor of English teaching folklore, who would persuade him to pursue a future in the field. In 1956, Paredes’ dissertation, which was to turn into his opus \"With His Pistol in His Hand\", published in 1958, told the story of the legendary Gregorio Cortez and his conflict with the Texas Rangers. The text portrayed the famed Texas Rangers in a negative fashion, which was unheard of in the history of that organization. There was a suggestion, jokingly perhaps, by some Texas Rangers that Paredes should be shot in retaliation for his blemishing of the reputation of the Texas Rangers in that book. \"With His Pistol in His Hand\" was actually Paredes' dissertation and was published as a book by the University of Texas at Austin., garnered the attention of famous folklorist Stith Thompson, who was to recommend the work to the University of Texas Press for publication (this project however would not reach publication until 1958). The book \"sold less than 1000 copies by 1965, then exploded into dozens of editions as it became a foundational text and primer for the emerging academic movement of Chicano studies.\"\n\nThe same year \"With His Pistol in His Hand\" was published, Paredes was hired by University of Texas, Austin to teach, a decision which would change the face of their curriculum. In the 1960s and 70’s Americo Paredes was to join the Chicano movement along with Tomás Rivera and Miguel Méndez. During this same period he would also expand the educational curriculum of UT by founding their Center for Folklore Studies (1967). Paredes would continue on to found their Center for Mexican American Studies as well. In 1989 Paredes would become one of five men to be awarded the Charles Frankel Prize of the National Endowment for the Humanities and in 1991 (the same year his high school and young adult poetry \"Between Two Worlds\" would publish) he received the Orden del Aguila Azteca along with Cesar Chavez and Julian Samora.\n\nIn 1970, his \"Folktales of Mexico\" was published as part of the \"Folktales of the World\" series.\n\nOn May 5, 1999 Americo Paredes died in Austin, Texas.\n\nParedes has the distinction of being one of the few scholars \"to ever have a corrido...composed in his honor\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33843237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33843237", "title": "Armed Forces for a Federal Republic", "text": "Armed Forces for a Federal Republic\n\nArmed Forces for a Federal Republic (FARF) were a rebel group in Chad in the 1990s.\n"}
{"id": "21084897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21084897", "title": "Artist's portfolio", "text": "Artist's portfolio\n\nAn artist's portfolio is an edited collection of their best artwork intended to showcase an artist's style or method of work. A portfolio is used by artists to show employers their versatility by showing different samples of current work. Typically, the work reflects an artist's best work or a depth in one specific area of work.\n\nHistorically, portfolios were printed out and placed into a book. With the increased use of the internet and email, however, there are now websites that host online portfolios that are available to a wider audience. Sometimes an artist's portfolio can be referred to as a lookbook.\n\nA photography portfolio can focus on a single subject. It can be a collection of photographs taken with a certain type of camera, in one geographic area, of one person or a group of people, only black & white or sepia photos, a special event, etc.\n\nMany photographers use portfolios to show their best work when looking for jobs in the photography industry. For example, wedding photographers may put together a book of their best wedding photos to show to engaged couples who are looking for a wedding photographer. Photojournalists may take a collection of their best freelance work with them when looking for a job.\n\nAn artist design book is a collection of photographs meant to show off a model, photographer, style, or clothing line. Sometimes they are made to compile the looks of other people such as a celebrity, politician or socialite. This is an especially popular term with fashion bloggers.\n\nArtist design books, or ADBs, in their online form, can be described as \"fashion diaries\" because bloggers are constantly updating them on a daily or weekly basis. \n\nIt is common for stores or clothing designers to use an ADB to show off products. They may include photos of multiple types of clothes, shoes and other accessories from a season or line.\n"}
{"id": "56848519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56848519", "title": "Ballynahatty woman", "text": "Ballynahatty woman\n\nThe Ballynahatty Woman is the name given to a prehistoric female human found in the townland of Ballynahatty near Belfast in 1855. She is estimated to have lived about 5,000 years ago. In 2015, her genome, along with that of a trio of men who lived 4,000 years ago, was sequenced by geneticists at Trinity College Dublin and archaeologists at Queen's University Belfast.\n\nBoth Ballynahatty Woman and one of the men were found to have mutations that can cause hemochromatosis, a disease where the body retains too much iron and has a high prevalence in the British Isles. She was found to have Middle Eastern ancestry, and out of modern peoples most genetically resembles the inhabitants of Spain and Sardinia\n"}
{"id": "17386882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17386882", "title": "Barton Gulch", "text": "Barton Gulch\n\nBarton Gulch is an archaeological site in southwest Montana that has provided very important information concerning some of the earliest residents of the Paleo-Indian period in the northwest United States.\n\nBarton Gulch is located in Madison County, Montana on a tributary of the Ruby River southwest of Indian Creek in the Greenhorn range, and is calculated to be as big as , or . Dr. Les Davis excavated Barton Gulch from 1987 through 1993, and found 37 features that were each arranged into four distinct aggregations. Each of these aggregations contains a central oxidized pit that is 30-centimeters deep and surrounds each basin. A string of small features, representing a living floor site, form a circle around each oxidized basin.\n\nBarton Gulch, also known as the Barton Gulch Alder Complex, was discovered in 1972 and first excavated in 1979. Barton Gulch is dated back to 9400 RCYBP (radio carbon years before the present), and was actually uncovered due to intensive, localized commercial mining projects in the late 1970s. Barton Gulch, along with the Alder site, are regarded as the type sites for the Blackwater Draw Paleo-Indian archaeological culture, and believed to be a Clovis culture. Most of the excavations of Barton Gulch were done by Dr. Les Davis, a professor at Montana State University, in the late 1980s and early 1990s. There has also been an intermediate amount of mining done at Barton Gulch for gold due to the presumption that the source of gold found in Barton Creek could have moved its way down the channel into the area.\n\nDuring the late Pleistocene period, the climate began a dramatic change. It is unknown how and why exactly the climate changed, but scientists speculate that the Earth's orbit around the sun changed, leading to an evident increase in the amount of sunlight exposed to the planet. As the Pleistocene period gave way to the Paleo-Indian period, so did the harsh winter climates give way to a suitable warm climate. Strong evidence for the warm climate is the many warm-weather plants that have been found during excavations at Barton Gulch.\n\nBarton Gulch included various animals that have rarely been seen in Paleo-Indian cultures. Such animals included the cottontail rabbit (Sylvilagus sp.), hare (Lepus sp.), mink (Mustela vison), porcupine (Orithizon dorsatum) and deer (Odocoileus sp.). The bones of the deer were used to make hammerstones and other small tools. Small tools that were made from the bones of the animals include knives, flake tools, end scrapers, abrading stones and points. Also, due to the warm weather, Barton Gulch contained many different edible plant species. Identified at Barton Gulch were remains of charred seeds, stems, spines, and other elements from over thirty different plant species. These plans were recovered from a series of over one hundred cooking features. These discoveries suggest that the people of the area used plants for various purposes such as food, medicine, in ceremonies, tools and weapons.\n\nThe people of Barton Gulch are thought to have been seasonally semi nomadic, meaning that although the people's living habits were largely nomadic, they do participate in planting crops at specific locations. Excavations suggest that the people were logistically organized, kin-related aggregates of hunter-gatherers. Remains of earth ovens at Barton Gulch were identified as a possible technique of processing plants and animals into food. The presence of earth ovens and other cooking features implies that the people had detailed procedures for preparing plant and animal remains. The identification of the many different tools from the animal bones suggests that there were many different activities being done by the men and women of Barton Gulch. The first known Barton Gulch female was called Laura of the ChunN clan.\n\n\nOther\n"}
{"id": "10415261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10415261", "title": "Beaumont and Fletcher folios", "text": "Beaumont and Fletcher folios\n\nThe Beaumont and Fletcher folios were two large folio collections of the stage plays of John Fletcher and his collaborators. The first was issued in 1647, and the second in 1679. The two collections were important in preserving many works of English Renaissance drama.\n\nThe 1647 folio was published by the booksellers Humphrey Moseley and Humphrey Robinson. It was modelled on the precedents of the first two folio collections of Shakespeare's plays, published in 1623 and 1632, and the first two folios of the works of Ben Jonson of 1616 and 1640–1. The title of the book was given as \"Comedies and Tragedies Written by Francis Beaumont and John Fletcher Gentlemen,\" though the prefatory matter in the folio recognised that Philip Massinger, rather than Francis Beaumont, collaborated with Fletcher on some of the plays included in the volume. (In fact, the 1647 volume \"contained almost nothing of Beaumont's\" work.) Seventeen works in Fletcher's canon that had already been published prior to 1647, and the rights to these plays belonged to the stationers who had issued those volumes; Robinson and Moseley therefore concentrated on the previously unpublished plays in the Fletcher canon.\n\nMost of these plays had been acted onstage by the King's Men, the troupe of actors for whom Fletcher had functioned as house dramatist for most of his career. The folio featured a dedication to Philip Herbert, 4th Earl of Pembroke, signed by ten of the King's Men – John Lowin, Joseph Taylor, Richard Robinson, Robert Benfield, Eliard Swanston, Thomas Pollard, Hugh Clark, William Allen, Stephen Hammerton, and Theophilus Bird – all idled by the closing of the theatres in 1642. It also contained two addresses to the reader, by James Shirley and by Moseley, and 37 commendatory poems, long and short, by figures famous and obscure, including Shirley, Ben Jonson, Richard Lovelace, Robert Herrick, Richard Brome, Jasper Mayne, Thomas Stanley, and Sir Aston Cockayne.\n\nThe 1647 folio contains 35 works – 34 plays and 1 masque.\n\nThe 1647 folio has attracted significant attention from scholars and bibliographers, and various specialised studies of the folio (books on the book) have been written. As with Shakespeare's First Folio, the typesetting of individual compositors and the work of individual printers has been traced and analysed – including that of Susan Islip, one of the rare instances of a female printer in the 17th century.\n\nThe second folio, titled \"Fifty Comedies and Tragedies,\" was published by the booksellers Henry Herringman, John Martyn, and Richard Marriot; the printing was done by J. Macock. The three stationers had obtained the rights to previously-published works, and added 18 dramas to the 35 of the first folio, for a total of 53. The second folio added features that the first lacked. Many songs in the plays were given in full. Cast lists were prefixed to 25 of the dramas, lists that provide the names of the leading actors in the original productions of the plays. These lists can be informative on the companies involved and the dates of first productions; the cast list prefixed to \"The Honest Man's Fortune,\" for example, reveals that the play was originally staged by the Lady Elizabeth's Men in the 1612–13 period.\n\nOn the negative side, the texts in the second folio were set into type from the previously-printed quarto texts, and never from manuscript; the texts of the plays in the first collection were printed from manuscript sources.\n\nThe implicit canon, nearly realized by the contents of the second folio, comprises dramatic works written by Beaumont or Fletcher; either alone, together, or in collaboration with other playwrights. By this rule, likely, four plays should be excluded (\"The Laws of Candy\" by John Ford, \"Wit at Several Weapons\" by Middleton and Rowley, \"The Nice Valour\" by Middleton, and \"The Coronation\" by James Shirley), and three more extant plays should be included (\"Barnavelt\", \"A Very Woman\", and \"Henry VIII\"). \"A Very Woman\" was printed in a volume of Massinger's plays in 1655, while \"Sir John van Olden Barnavelt\" remained in manuscript until the 19th century. \"Henry VIII\" was first published in the Shakespeare First Folio of 1623.\n\nAt least five plays, no longer extant, may also belong in the canon. Four of these were entered to Moseley in the Stationers' Register between 1653 and 1660, possibly with the intent of printing them in the second folio: \"Cardenio\" (Shakespeare and Fletcher?), \"A Right Woman\" (Beaumont and Fletcher?), \"The Wandering Lovers\" (Fletcher?), and \"The Jeweler of Amsterdam\" (Fletcher, Field, and Massinger?). A fifth non-extant play, \"The Queen\" was questionably attributed to Fletcher by a contemporary.\n\nThe folios contain two works that are generally thought to be the work of Beaumont alone – \"The Knight of the Burning Pestle\" and \"The Masque of the Inner Temple and Gray's Inn\" – and fifteen that are solo efforts by Fletcher, and perhaps a dozen that are actual Beaumont/Fletcher collaborations. The rest are Fletcher's collaborations with Massinger and other writers.\n\n\nThe folios limited but did not extinguish the market for individual editions of the plays; such editions were printed when the chances for profit seemed favourable. Humphrey Robinson and Alice Moseley (Humphrey Moseley's widow) issued a quarto of \"Beggar's Bush\" in 1661, for example. During the Restoration era and into the 18th century, the plays in the Beaumont/Fletcher canon were very popular – though they were often performed in adapted versions rather than in the originals; and the adaptations then appeared in print. An adaptation of \"The Island Princess\" was published in 1669; and adapted version of \"Monsieur Thomas\" was printed in 1678. \"Beggar's Bush\" became \"The Royal Merchant,\" published in 1706 – and later, \"The Merchant of Bruges.\" This trend in favour of new adaptations over original versions made it easier for Herringman, Martyn, and Mariot to obtain permissions to reprint those originals in their 1679 collection.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11818860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11818860", "title": "Caribbean Tourism Organization", "text": "Caribbean Tourism Organization\n\nThe Caribbean Tourism Organizations main objective is the development of sustainable tourism for the economic and social benefit of Caribbean people.\n\nThe CTO, with headquarters in Barbados and offices in New York and London, is the Caribbean’s tourism development agency. Its member countries and territories include the Dutch, English, French and Spanish, as well as a myriad of private sector allied members. \n\nThe CTO's vision is to position the Caribbean as the most desirable, year round, warm weather destination, and its purpose is \"Leading Sustainable Tourism - One Sea, One Voice, One Caribbean.\"\n\nAmong other benefits, the organization provides specialized support and technical assistance in sustainable tourism development, marketing, communications, advocacy, human resource development, event planning and execution, and research and information technology.\n\nThe CTO, in partnership with the Caribbean Hotel & Tourism Association, jointly and equally owns the Caribbean Tourism Development Company, a marketing and business development entity dedicated to promoting the Caribbean brand worldwide.\nCTO's offices are located in the USA, UK, Canada and Barbados. CTO chapters are located in France, Germany, the Netherlands, across the US and in the Caribbean.\n\nThe CTO was established in 1989 with the merger of the Caribbean Tourism Association (founded in 1951) and the Caribbean Tourism Research and Development Center (founded in 1974)\n\nThe body is primarily involved in the joint promotion and marketing of Caribbean tourist destinations in North America and Europe.\n\nThe CTO appointed the7stars as its media planning and buying agency in 2010.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5808", "title": "Casey at the Bat", "text": "Casey at the Bat\n\n\"Casey at the Bat: A Ballad of the Republic Sung in the Year 1888\" is a baseball poem written in 1888 by Ernest Thayer. First published in \"The San Francisco Examiner\" (then called \"The Daily Examiner\") on June 3, 1888, it was later popularized by DeWolf Hopper in many vaudeville performances. It has become one of the best-known poems in American literature. The poem was originally published anonymously (under the pen name \"Phin\", based on Thayer's college nickname, \"Phinney\").\n\nA baseball team from the fictional town of \"Mudville\" (implied to be the home team) is losing by two runs in its last inning. Both the team and its fans, a crowd of 5,000, believe they can win if Casey, Mudville's star player, gets to bat. However, Casey is scheduled to be the fifth batter of the inning, and the first two batters (Cooney and Barrows) fail to get on base. The next two batters (Flynn and Jimmy Blake) are perceived to be weak hitters with little chance of reaching base to allow Casey a chance to bat.\n\nSurprisingly, Flynn hits a single, and Blake follows with a double that allows Flynn to reach third base. Both runners are now in scoring position and Casey represents the potential winning run. Casey is so sure of his abilities that he does not swing at the first two pitches, both called strikes. On the last pitch, the overconfident Casey strikes out swinging, ending the game and sending the crowd home unhappy.\n\nThe text is filled with references to baseball as it was in 1888, which in many ways is not far removed from today's version. As a work, the poem encapsulates much of the appeal of baseball, including the involvement of the crowd. It also has a fair amount of baseball jargon that can pose challenges for the uninitiated.\n\nThis is the complete poem as it originally appeared in \"The Daily Examiner\". After publication, various versions with minor changes were produced.\n\nThayer said he chose the name \"Casey\" after a non-player of Irish ancestry he once knew, and it is open to debate who, if anyone, he modeled the character after. It has been reported that Thayer's best friend Samuel Winslow, who played baseball at Harvard, was the inspiration for Casey.\n\nAnother candidate is National League player Mike \"King\" Kelly, who became famous when Boston paid Chicago a record $10,000 for him. He had a personality that fans liked to cheer or jeer. After the 1887 season, Kelly went on a playing tour to San Francisco. Thayer, who wrote \"Casey\" in 1888, covered the San Francisco leg for the \"San Francisco Examiner\".\n\nThayer, in a letter he wrote in 1905, mentions Kelly as showing \"impudence\" in claiming to have written the poem. The author of the 2004 definitive bio of Kelly—which included a close tracking of his vaudeville career—did not find Kelly claiming to have been the author.\n\nA month after the poem was published, it was reprinted as \"Kelly at the Bat\" in the \"New York Sporting Times\".\nAside from omitting the first five verses, the only changes from the original are substitutions of Kelly for Casey, and Boston for Mudville. King Kelly, then of the Boston Beaneaters, was one of baseball's two biggest stars at the time (along with Cap Anson).\n\nIn 1897, the magazine \"Current Literature\" noted the two versions and said, \"The locality, as originally given, is Mudville, not Boston; the latter was substituted to give the poem local color.\"\n\nSportswriter Leonard Koppett claimed in a 1979 article that the published poem omits 18 lines penned by Thayer which change the entire theme of the poem. Koppett said the full version of the poem takes the pitch count on Casey to full as his uncle Arnold stirs up wagering action in the stands before a wink passes between them and Casey throws the game.\n\nDeWolf Hopper gave the poem's first stage recitation on August 14, 1888, at New York's Wallack Theatre as part of the comic opera \"Prinz Methusalem\" in the presence of the Chicago and New York baseball teams, the White Stockings and the Giants, respectively; August 14, 1888 was also Thayer's 25th birthday. Hopper became known as an orator of the poem, and recited it more than 10,000 times (by his count—some tabulations are as much as four times higher) before his death.\n\nOn stage in the early 1890s, baseball star Kelly recited the original \"Casey\" a few dozen times and not the parody. For example, in a review in 1893 of a variety show he was in, the \"Indianapolis News\" said, \"Many who attended the performance had heard of Kelly's singing and his reciting, and many had heard De Wolf Hopper recite 'Casey at the Bat' in his inimitable way. Kelly recited this in a sing-song, school-boy fashion.\" Upon Kelly's death, a writer would say he gained \"considerable notoriety by his ludicrous rendition of 'Casey at the Bat,' with which he concluded his `turn’ [act] at each performance.\"\n\nDuring the 1980s, the magic/comedy team Penn & Teller performed a version of \"Casey at the Bat\" with Teller (the \"silent\" partner) struggling to escape a straitjacket while suspended upside-down over a platform of sharp steel spikes. The set-up was that Penn Jillette would leap off his chair upon finishing the poem, releasing the rope which supported Teller, and send his partner to a gruesome death if he wasn't free by that time. The drama of the performance was taken up a notch after the third or fourth stanza, when Penn Jillette began to read out the rest of the poem much faster than the opening stanzas, greatly reducing the time that Teller had left to work free from his bonds.\n\nOn July 4, 2008, Jack Williams recited the poem accompanied by the Boston Pops during the annual Boston Pops Fireworks Spectacular at Boston's 4 July Celebration.\n\nOn July 14, 2013, the jam rock band Furthur performed the poem as part of a second-set medley in center field of Doubleday Field in Cooperstown, New York.\n\nThe first recorded version of \"Casey at the Bat\" was made by Russell Hunting, speaking in a broad Irish accent, in 1893; an 1898 cylinder recording of the text made for the Columbia Graphophone label by Hunting can be accessed from the Cylinder Preservation and Digitization Project at the University of California, Santa Barbara Library.\n\nDeWolf Hopper's more famous recorded recitation was released in October 1906.\n\nIn 1946, Walt Disney released a recording of the narration of the poem by Jerry Colonna, which accompanied the studio's animated cartoon adaptation of the poem (see below).\n\nIn 1973, the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra commissioned its former Composer-in-Residence, Frank Proto, to create a work to feature Baseball Hall-of-Famer Johnny Bench with the orchestra. The result \"Casey At The Bat – an American Folk Tale for Narrator and Orchestra\" was an immediate hit and recorded by Bench and the orchestra. It has since been performed more than 800 times by nearly every major and Metropolitan orchestra in the U.S. and Canada.\n\nIn 1980, baseball pitcher Tug McGraw recorded \"Casey at The Bat—an American Folk Tale for Narrator and Orchestra\" by Frank Proto with Peter Nero and the Philly Pops.\n\nIn 1996, actor James Earl Jones recorded the poem with Arranger/Composer Steven Reineke and the Cincinnati Pops Orchestra.\n\nIn 2013, Dave Jageler and Charlie Slowes, both radio announcers for the Washington Nationals, each made recordings of the poem for the Library of Congress to mark the 125th anniversary of its first publication.\n\nA rivalry of sorts has developed between two cities claiming to be the Mudville described in the poem.\n\nResidents of Holliston, Massachusetts, where there is a neighborhood called Mudville, claim it as the Mudville described in the poem. Thayer grew up in nearby Worcester, Massachusetts, where he wrote the poem in 1888; his family owned a wool mill less than a mile from Mudville's baseball field.\n\nHowever, residents of Stockton, California—which was known for a time as Mudville prior to incorporation in 1850—also lay claim to being the inspiration for the poem. In 1887, Thayer covered baseball for \"The Daily Examiner\"—owned by his Harvard classmate William Randolph Hearst—and is said to have covered the local California League team, the Stockton Ports. For the 1902 season, after the poem became popular, Stockton's team was renamed the Mudville Nine. The team reverted to the Mudville Nine moniker for the 2000 and 2001 seasons. The Visalia Rawhide, another California League team, currently keep Mudville alive by playing in Mudville jerseys on June 3 each year.\n\nDespite the towns' rival claims, Thayer himself told the \"Syracuse Post-Standard\" that \"the poem has no basis in fact.\"\n\nThe poem has been adapted to diverse types of media:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFor a relatively short poem apparently dashed off quickly (and denied by its author for years), \"Casey at the Bat\" had a profound effect on American popular culture. It has been recited, re-enacted, adapted, dissected, parodied and subjected to just about every other treatment one could imagine.\n\n\"Casey's Revenge\", by Grantland Rice (1907), gives Casey another chance against the pitcher who had struck him out in the original story. It was written in 1906, and its first known publication was in the quarterly magazine \"The Speaker\" in June 1907, under the pseudonym of James Wilson. In this version, Rice cites the nickname \"Strike-Out Casey\", hence the influence on Casey Stengel's name. Casey's team is down \"three\" runs by the last of the ninth, and once again Casey is down to two strikes—with the bases full this time. However, he connects, hits the ball so far that it is never found.\n\n\nOf the many parodies made of the poem, some of the notable ones include:\n\nThere are three known translations of the poem into a foreign language, one in French, written in 2007 by French Canadian linguist Paul Laurendeau, with the title \"Casey au bâton\", and two in Hebrew. One by the sports journalist Menachem Less titled \"התור של קייסי לחבוט\" [Hator Shel Casey Lachbot], and the other more recent and more true to the original cadence and style by Jason H. Elbaum called קֵיסִי בַּמַּחְבֵּט [Casey BaMachbayt].\n\nCasey Stengel describes in his autobiography how his original nickname \"K.C.\" (for his hometown, Kansas City, Missouri) evolved into \"Casey\". It was influenced not just by the name of the poem, which was widely popular in the 1910s, but also because he tended to strike out frequently in his early career so fans and writers started calling him \"strikeout Casey\".\n\nThe poem is referenced in the Super Nintendo Entertainment System game \"EarthBound\", where a weapon is named the Casey Bat, which is the strongest weapon in the game, but will only hit 25% of the time.\n\nA one-time character in the \"Pokémon\" anime, a girl who is a very enthusiastic fan of baseball, is named \"Casey\" in the English version in reference to the poem.\n\nA baseball-themed episode of The Twilight Zone was named The Mighty Casey in reference to the poem's lead character, though the plot is unrelated.\n\nIn the show Friends, Ross clarifies how to spell \"Casey\" as in \"at the bat\" in the Season 2, episode 14 entitled \"The One with the Prom Video.\"\n\nIn the show Containment, Season 1, episode 6 takes its name, “He Stilled the Rising Tumult”, from the poem.\n\n\nOn July 11, 1996, the United States Postal Service issued a commemorative stamp depicting \"Mighty Casey.\" The stamp was part of a set commemorating American folk heroes. Other stamps in the set depicted Paul Bunyan, John Henry, and Pecos Bill.\n\n"}
{"id": "1928379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1928379", "title": "Comparison of Standard Malay and Indonesian", "text": "Comparison of Standard Malay and Indonesian\n\nMalaysian and Indonesian are two standardised registers of the Malay language, used in Malaysia and Indonesia, respectively. Both varieties are generally mutually intelligible, yet there are significant differences in spelling, grammar, pronunciation and vocabulary, as well as the predominant source of loanwords. The differences can range from those mutually unintelligible with one another, to those having a closer familial resemblance. The regionalised and localised varieties of Malay can become a catalyst for intercultural conflict, especially in higher education.\n\nTo non-native speakers the two varieties may seem identical, but to native speakers the differences are noticeable through both diction and accent. They affect the broadcasting industry with regard to foreign language subtitling, for example, in DVD movies and on cable TV. In order to reach a wider audience, both Indonesian and Malay subtitles are sometimes displayed in a movie, along with other language subtitles. Another example is Malaysian TV providing Malay subtitling on Indonesian sinetrons (TV dramas) aired in Malaysia, and vice versa.\n\nThe Malay language in Indonesia and Malaysia also differs in recognition, where in Malaysia it enjoys status as the national language (Malaysian language), while in Indonesia it is considered as a regional language in Malay-speaking areas such as the eastern coast of Sumatra and West Kalimantan. The term \"Malay language\" (\"Bahasa Melayu\") in Indonesia and Malaysia invites different perceptions from its respective people. To Malaysians, the Malay language is generally understood as the national language of Malaysia, with Malaysian language (\"Bahasa Malaysia)\" being a precise appellation for the Malay variety used in the country. Between 1986 and 2007, the term \"Bahasa Melayu\" was used instead of \"Bahasa Malaysia\", until the latter was reinstated, in order to instill a sense of belonging among Malaysians of all races, rather than just Malays. Therefore, there was no clear distinction between the use of the term Malay (\"Bahasa Melayu\") and the national language of Malaysia (\"Bahasa Malaysia\"). In Brunei, where Malay is also an official language, the language is known as \"Bahasa Melayu\" and in English as \"Malay\".\n\nIn Indonesia, however, there is a clear distinction between \"Malay language\" (\"bahasa Melayu\") and \"Indonesian\" (\"bahasa Indonesia\"). Indonesian is the national language which serves as the unifying language of Indonesia; despite being a standardized form of Malay, it is not referred to with the term \"Malay\" in common parlance. The term \"Malay\" is usually reserved for the forms of Malay indigenous to the Malay ethnic group (the national standardized language of Malaysia and the non-standard idioms of Malay people, including those used by Malay Indonesians). Thus, \"Malay\" is considered a regional language (\"bahasa daerah\") in Indonesia, enjoying the same status as e.g. Javanese, Sundanese, Buginese, Balinese, Batak languages and others. Moreover, to some Indonesians, the term \"Malay\" is more often associated with Malaysia and the Malaysian variety of Malay..\n\nIn Malaysia, the terms \"Indonesian Malay\" and \"Malaysian Malay\" are sometimes used for Indonesian and Malaysian as spoken in Malaysia. In Indonesia, \"Indonesian Malay\" usually refers to the vernacular varieties of Malay spoken by the Malay peoples of Indonesia, that is, to Malay as a regional language in Sumatra, though it is rarely used. \"Bahasa Malaysia\" and \"Bahasa Melayu\" are used interchangeably in reference to Malay in Malaysia.\n\nBefore the 20th century, Malay was written in a local modified form of the Arabic alphabet known as Jawi. During the 20th century, Malay written with Roman letters, known as Rumi, almost completely replaced Jawi in everyday life. The romanisations originally used in Malaya (now part of Malaysia) and the Dutch East Indies (now Indonesia) reflected their past history as British and Dutch colonial possessions respectively. In Malaya, the romanisation of Malay, devised by Richard Wilkinson was influenced by English, whereas in the Dutch East Indies, the system devised by C. A. Van Ophuijsen was influenced by Dutch. As a result, in Indonesia, the vowel in the English word 'moon' was formerly represented \"oe\", as in Dutch, although the official spelling of this sound was changed to \"u\" in 1947 when the Republican Spelling System was used.\n\nSimilarly, until 1972, the initial consonant of the English 'chin' was represented in Malaysia as \"ch\", whereas in Indonesia, it continued to follow Dutch and used \"tj\". Hence the word for 'grandchild' used to be written as \"chuchu\" in Malaysia and \"tjoetjoe\" in Indonesia, until a unified spelling system was introduced in 1972 (known in Indonesia as \"Ejaan Yang Disempurnakan\" or the 'Perfected Spelling') which removed most differences between the two varieties: Malay \"ch\" and Indonesian \"tj\" became \"c\": hence \"cucu\". Indonesia abandoned the spelling \"dj\" (for the consonant at the beginning of the word 'Jakarta') to conform to the \"j\" already in use in Malaysia, while the old Indonesian \"j\" for the semivowel at the beginning of the English 'young', was replaced with \"y\" as in Malaysia. Likewise, the velar fricative which occurs in many Arabic loanwords, which used to be written 'ch' in Indonesian, became \"kh\" in both languages. However, \"oe\" was retained in some proper names, such as the name of the first President, Sukarno (written as \"Soekarno\"), and his successor Suharto, (written as \"Soeharto\"). The \"ch\" and \"dj\" letter combinations are still encountered in names such as \"Achmad\" and \"Djojo\" (pronounced as \"Akhmad\" and \"Joyo\" respectively), although the post-1972 spelling is now favoured.\n\nAlthough the representations of speech sounds are now largely identical in the Indonesian and Malay standards, a number of minor spelling differences remain, usually for historical reasons. For instance, the word for 'money' is written as \"wang\" in Malaysia, but \"uang\" in Indonesia, the word for 'try' is written as \"cuba\" in Malaysia, but \"coba\" in Indonesia, the word for 'because' is written as \"kerana\" in Malaysia, but \"karena\" in Indonesia, while the word for 'cake' is written as \"kuih\" in Malaysia, but \"kue\" in Indonesia. One notable difference in punctuation between the two languages is the use of different decimal marks; Indonesian, influenced by Dutch, uses the decimal comma, whereas Malay, influenced by English, uses the decimal point.\n\nPronunciation also tends to be very different, with East Malaysia, Brunei and East Indonesia pronouncing words in a form called \"Bahasa Baku\", where the words are pronounced as spelled. and enunciation tends to be clipped, staccato and faster than on the Malay Peninsula, which is spoken at a more languorous pace. Many vowels are pronounced (and were formerly spelt) differently in Peninsular Malaysia, Singapore and Sumatra: \"tujuh\" is pronounced (and was spelt) \"tujoh\", \"pilih\" as \"pileh\", etc., and many final \"a\"'s tend to be pronounced as schwas; and are also allophones of and in closed final syllables in peninsular Malaysian, Singaporean and Sumatran varieties of Malay.\n\nIndonesian differs from Malaysian in the quantity of loanwords from Javanese, Dutch and other languages. For example, the word for 'post office' in Malaysia is \"pejabat pos\" (in Indonesia this means 'post officer'), whereas in Indonesia it is \"kantor pos\", from the Dutch word for office, \"kantoor\". There are also some Portuguese influences: in Indonesia, Christmas is known as \"Natal\", whereas Malaysia uses \"Krismas\", derived from English (or in some cases also \"Natal\", due to Indonesian influence). Pronunciation of some loanwords in Standard Malay follows English, while some in Indonesian follows Dutch, for example Malay \"televisyen\" (from English: television) and Indonesian \"televisi\" (from Dutch: \"televisie\"), the \"-syen\" and \"-si\" also prevail in some other words. There are also instances where the Malaysian version derives from English pronunciation while the Indonesian version takes its cue from Latin. The Latin preference of the (older) Indonesian intellectuals in these instances may be ascribed to the influence of their classical-oriented education when \"Gymnasium\" schools were established during the Dutch colonial period : compare Malay \"kualiti\", \"kuantiti\", \"majoriti\", \"minoriti\" and \"universiti\" with Indonesian \"kualitas\", \"kuantitas\", \"mayoritas\", \"minoritas\" and \"universitas\".\n\nSome words which are spelt the same in both languages may even carry entirely different meanings in the other language, potentially leading to humorous or embarrassing situations: while \"baja\" means \"steel\" in Indonesian, in Malaysian it means \"fertiliser\". Also, whereas the Indonesian word \"butuh\" means \"require\" or \"need\", in Malaysian, it is a vulgar slang term equivalent to \"cunt/cock\". Conversely, where the word \"banci\" seems innocuous enough in Malaysia (\"census\"), in Indonesia it is a derogatory term for \"transvestite\".\n\nThe relatively large share of Islamic (Arabic or Persian) loan words shared by Malaysian and Indonesian often poses no difficulty in comprehension and usage, although some forms may have developed a (slightly) different meaning or have become obsolete either in Malaysian or in Indonesian, e.g. \"khidmat\", \"wakil\" (see below).\n\nBesides vocabulary differences, there are also a number of false friends in both languages. As these words are in quite common use in either or both of the languages, misunderstandings can arise.\n\nOne of the most important aspect in differences between Malaysian and Indonesian is the degree of influence from English. Apart from being heavily influenced by the Dutch language, Indonesian language also adopted a significant number of English loanwords in its vocabulary, although English did not play significant role on the Indonesian language and in fact most of these vocabulary are of Dutch origin - Dutch and English share a similar Germanic origin, and Dutch has also borrowed from Latin, although to a lesser extent than English. There have been many changes in Indonesian as a result of its historical development. Words have been freely borrowed from English and only partly assimilated, in many cases, to the Indonesian patterns of structure.\n\nBy the late 1970s, English words began pouring into the language, leading one commentator, writing in 1977, to refer to the \"trend towards Indo-Saxonization\", known in Indonesian as \"pengindosaksonan\". A great many borrowings from English sometimes fulfill no communicative need, expressing concepts adequately covered by existing words. Among the examples are: \"akurat\" instead of \"tepat\" (accurate), \"aliansi\" in the place of \"sekutu\" (alliance), \"eksis\" rather than \"ada\" (exist), \"kandidat\" as well as \"calon\" (candidate), \"konklusi\" instead of \"kesimpulan\" (conclusion) \"kontaminasi\" in the place of \"pencemaran\" (contamination), \"opini\" rather than \"pendapat\" (opinion) and \"opsi\" in the place of \"pilihan\" (option). Contrary to its Indonesian counterpart, Malay has shown a remarkable resilience, despite formerly being part of British Empire.\n\nSome in Indonesia view this trend of excessive borrowings as \"language dynamism\", while some Malaysian linguists called it mass \"language pollution\", and lack of creativity in creating new terms.\n\nThe original text in Indonesian:\n\nThe same text rendered in Malaysian:\n\nEnglish translation:\n\nThe rift of evolution between the two languages is based more on political nuance and the history of their formation than on cultural reasons. As a result, views regarding each other's languages differ amongst Malaysians and Indonesians. In Malaysia, the national language is Malaysian; in Indonesia, it is Indonesian. Malaysians tend to assert that Malaysian and Indonesian are merely different varieties of the same language, while Indonesians tend to treat them as separate – albeit closely related – languages. The result of this attitude is that the Indonesians feel little need to synchronize their language with Malaysia, Singapore and Brunei, whereas the Malaysians are keener to coordinate the evolution of the language with the Indonesians. However, both parties have realized that communication benefits from mutually comprehensible and intelligible languages, which motivated efforts to synchronize the languages' development. The effort to synchronize both languages' evolution to increase their mutual intelligibility has been embarked by imposing standard rules of language. This process is headed by Pusat Bahasa on the Indonesian side and Dewan Bahasa dan Pustaka as its Malaysian counterpart.\n\nThe following texts are excerpts from the official translations of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in Malaysian and Indonesian, along with the original declaration in English.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26284584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26284584", "title": "Culture Machine", "text": "Culture Machine\n\nCulture Machine is a peer-reviewed open access academic journal of culture and theory that was established in 1999. It is published by Open Humanities Press.\n\n"}
{"id": "5169148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5169148", "title": "Decommercialization", "text": "Decommercialization\n\nDecommercialization is a grass-roots movement, especially in the United States, which aims to counter what is perceived as over-commercialization of society.\n"}
{"id": "3458607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3458607", "title": "Doctrines of civil procedure", "text": "Doctrines of civil procedure\n\nCivil procedure doctrines are rules developed by case law as opposed to being set down in codes or legislation, which, together with court rules and codes, define the steps that a person involved in a civil lawsuit can (or can not) take.\n\nIn the United States federal jurisdiction, these doctrines have developed to comprehensively deal with certain common issues that arise when a person is involved in bringing, or contemplating bringing a civil lawsuit.\n\nSimilar doctrines exist In other jurisdictions, (however they are sometimes referred to under names other than 'Doctrines of Civil Procedure'), although often they have much less importance. \n\nFor example, in England and Wales, all civil procedure is covered by the Civil Procedure Rules 1998, which according to Part 1 of those rules are a 'new procedural code', and have therefore largely replaced any pre-existing doctrines.\n\n"}
{"id": "497394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=497394", "title": "Double Dragon 3: The Rosetta Stone", "text": "Double Dragon 3: The Rosetta Stone\n\n\"Double Dragon 3\" can be set up to be played by up to two or three player simultaneously, similarly to \"The Combatribes\". The first two players control returning heroes Billy and Jimmy Lee respectively, while the third player controls a new character named Sonny (a yellow-clad palette swap of the Lee brothers). The controls consists of an eight way joystick and three buttons once again, but the combat system has been greatly altered from previous games. The game discards the directional attack buttons from \"\", returning to the punch and kick format of the original \"Double Dragon\". However, moves such as the elbow strike and the hair grab had been removed and new abilities were added in their place. The player can now run by pushing the joystick left or right twice and perform moves with a second player such as a back-to-back hurricane kick when standing near each other and a triangle jump kick when one player jumps towards the other. Other new moves include a running head-butt, a belly-to-back throw and a jumping knee drop.\n\nAt the start of certain stages, players will have access to an item shop where they can purchase in-game power-ups such as faster attack speed or new moves by using real money. The item selection vary between stages and each one cost a single credit.\n\nOne item, \"Extra Guys\", allows the player to control one of three new character types in addition to the . These characters form other teams of fighting siblings as well, allowing each player to control a different member of the group. When the player's current fighter is killed, the new one will replace him, essentially substituting the extra lives system from previous games. These new fighters consists of the (mixed martial arts champions), the (tai chi experts) and the (karate masters). Each player can hold up to three extra fighters in reserve and availability of a fighter type varies depends on the stage.\n\nThe Japanese version of \"Double Dragon 3\" was produced after the game was already distributed in North America and Europe and features drastic changes as a result. Most notably, the item shops were removed from the game and players can now choose which character to control at the start of the game, allowing the ability to start the game as any of three new fighter types (Urquidez, Chin and Ōyama) in addition to the Lee brothers. The player has access to his character's entire repertoire of moves, although the command input for the Hurricane Kick requires more precise timing in the Japanese version. Since weapons are no longer purchasable items, they can be found lying around on the floor in certain stages, waiting to be picked up by the player if he's controlling a Lee brother. The game was also made easier, with enemies doing 1/3 less damage than in the overseas releases.\n\nAfter returning home from a two-year training mission, Billy and Jimmy Lee come across a fortune teller named Hiruko. The woman tells the Lee brothers that in order to challenge the world's strongest adversary, they must seek out the three Rosetta Stones that have been scattered around the world.\n\nThe game begins in the United States, where the Lee brothers must defeat the remnants of the Black Warriors gang from the previous games before they set off to find the stones. Afterward, the heroes must travel to China, Japan and Italy, where each of the stones are being guarded by formidable fighters unique to each country (such as swordsmen in Japan and archers in Italy) who will refuse to give them up without a fight. Once all three Rosetta Stones have been procured, the Lee brothers' journey reaches its final destination in Egypt, where they face all sorts of supernatural creatures as they enter Cleopatra's tomb to uncover the mystery surrounding the stones.\n\nThe game was not internally developed by Technōs Japan, who were busy working on other projects at the time such as \"WWF Superstars\" and \"The Combatribes\". Instead a company called East Technology, whose previous work was the 1989 arcade shoot-'em-up \"Gigandes\", was contracted to develop the third game in the series, resulting in a sequel with a drastically different gameplay and graphic style than its predecessors. The game was controversial upon its release due to the addition of item shops where players acquire power-ups by inserting real money into the cabinet, which was removed from the later Japanese release after negative feedback from playtesters.\n\nThe music was composed by Akira Inoue and Takaro Nozaki, replacing original \"Double Dragon\" composer Kazunaka Yamane, who was busy composing for \"The Combatribes\" at the time (Yamane later returned for \"Super Double Dragon\"). Inoue composed the background music for the USA, Italy and Egypt stages (including the boss battle themes), while Nozaki worked on the rest. The soundtrack was released on June 21, 1991 by Pony Canyon in Japan as a joint CD album that also included the soundtrack to \"The Combatribes\". The catalog number is PCCB-00065. The first half of the album (tracks 1 to 12) covers the \"Double Dragon 3\" portion, which include an arranged version of the title theme. The album does not feature the shop themes that were present in the export versions of the game.\n\nThe demo versions of Inoue's tracks were later uploaded on his personal YouTube and Niconico channels in 2014.\n\nA version for the Nintendo Entertainment System titled \"\" was released on February , a few months after the arcade release. This version is not a port, but rather was actually a parallel project that was developed simultaneously with the arcade release. While the plot of the two versions are similar, the graphics, gameplay system and characters featured in the NES version are very different compared to the arcade version.\n\n\"Double Dragon 3\" was ported to various platforms under license from Tradewest. Versions were released for the ZX Spectrum, Amstrad CPC, Commodore 64, Amiga and Atari ST in late 1991, followed by the IBM PC, Genesis and Game Boy in . These versions of the game were developed by The Sales Curve, with the exception of the Genesis version (which was handled by Software Creations). The Game Boy and Genesis versions were published by Acclaim under the title of \"Double Dragon 3: The Arcade Game\", distinguishing them from the earlier NES release.\n\n\"Double Dragon 3\" was re-released in alongside the first two arcade games in a compilation titled \"Double Dragon Trilogy\" produced by DotEmu, which was released on iOS, Android and Steam platforms. It only includes the overseas version of the game.\n\nJulian Rignall, writing for \"Computer and Video Games\", reacted positively to the game's change to a more realistic art style and recommended the game to fans of the series, scoring it an 83%.\n\n"}
{"id": "27274204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27274204", "title": "Downtown Bakersfield", "text": "Downtown Bakersfield\n\nDowntown is the central business district for Bakersfield, California. Located in the heart of the city, Downtown Bakersfield is easily accessible from all its other parts. It is also reemerging as the center of Bakersfield’s arts, culture and entertainment sectors. Downtown contains several of the cities major theaters, sporting complexes, museums, and historical landmarks.\n\nWhat is considered to be “downtown” Bakersfield varies. In order to define Downtown Bakersfield, it is important to first define the Central Bakersfield region. Starting from the north and traveling clockwise, Central Bakersfield is bounded by the Kern River, Union Avenue, State Route 58, and State Route 99. Most people (including the Downtown Business Association) define downtown Bakersfield as the region bordered by 24th Street (SR 178), Union Avenue (SR 204), California Avenue, and \"F\" Street. Other people extend the boundaries east to State Route 99 and north to Golden State Avenue (SR 204). Some people consider all of Central Bakersfield to be “downtown Bakersfield.”\n\nUnlike most cities of similar size, Bakersfield does not have a towering skyline. There are few tall buildings in Downtown Bakersfield, such as the Bank of America Building (10 stories), the Bakersfield Marriott Hotel (9 stories), and The Padre Hotel (8 stories). The shops and cafes that line the Downtown streets feature a variety of dining and shopping opportunities. Visitors to Downtown Bakersfield can find souvenirs, antiques, local art work, and even natural baby products. Notable attractions in Downtown Bakersfield include the Rabobank Arena, the McMurtrey Aquatic Center, the Bakersfield Museum of Art, the historic Fox Theater, the exquisitely renovated The Padre Hotel, and a nightlife district centered on 19th Street and Wall Street Alley.\n\nBakersfield has always had some districts located downtown. Recently, as part of a redevelopment effort, others are being created.\n\nThe Arts District is one of the newer districts to be defined in Downtown Bakersfield. It is roughly bordered by 21st Street, Chester Avenue, 17th Street, and \"G\" Street. Theaters in the district include the Fox Theater (20th St. and H St), Stars Theater (Chester Ave. and 20th St) and Spotlight Theater (19th St. and H St). In addition, several art galleries are located around the intersection of 19th Street and Eye Street. The Arts District is also home to the historic The Padre Hotel, which has been remodeled and reopened as a boutique hotel. The district has also begun holding First Friday which showcases galleries and allows for street vendors on the first Friday of every month in support of local artists.\n\nCivic Center is the center of government for both the City of Bakersfield and the County of Kern. It is roughly bordered by Truxtun Ave, Q St, BNSF railroad yard, and H St. Major government buildings include Bakersfield City Hall, County of Kern Administrative Building, hall of records, Superior Court, and Municipal Court.\n\nAlthough structures representing the center of government, such as City Hall and the Court House are located there, growth has resulted in many services being moved to other places throughout the city. Also, many state and federal services are also placed in locations outside of the Civic Center.\n\nCivic Center has also become one of Bakersfield’s sport centers. Civic Center also houses the Rabobank Theater and Convention Center (formerly known as the Civic Auditorium). This is the largest theater and convention facility in the city. It is also conveniently located next to the Marriott Convention Hotel. The Rabobank Arena (formerly known as the Centennial Garden), is a large indoor multipurpose arena. McMurtrey Aquatic Center houses a 50-meter competition swimming and diving pool. There is also the Bakersfield Ice Sports Center, an indoor ice rink used for junior and adult league hockey and recreation.\n\nEducation District is the center of education institutions that are located Downtown. Currently five institutions have a campus or a satellite campus in the district. The Education District is roughly bordered by 24th St, Q St, 20th St and Chester Ave.\n\nMill Creek is another one of Downtown’s newer districts, and is still being developed. When fully completed, Mill Creek will consist of a mixture of both low and high density residential, commercial and retail. The redevelopment area is defined to be Golden State Avenue, Union Avenue, California Avenue, and \"Q\" Street. Running through the center of Mill Creek is the Mill Creek Linear Park. This runs along the manmade Kern Island Canal, which has been redesigned to have the look of a natural river.\n\nA major attraction in the area is the Bakersfield Museum of Art. The Beale Memorial Library, which is the headquarters for the Kern County Library System, is also located in the Mill Creek. Another important structure is the Amtrak station, which is Bakersfield’s rail link to the San Joaquin Valley.\n\nThe following are neighborhoods and districts which are near to Downtown Bakersfield. Some people consider them to be a part of Downtown.\n\nFormerly named Pierce Road, Buck Owens Boulevard was renamed in 1998 in honor of long-time Bakersfield resident and country music legend Buck Owens, who died in 2006. Buck Owens Boulevard runs north/south, parallel to Highway 99, between Rosedale Highway/24th Street in Bakersfield, and Airport Drive in Oildale. Buck Owens Boulevard is located near Beach Park and is the heart of Bakersfield's Country Music scene. The main attractions in the area are the original Bakersfield Sign (formerly located at intersection of California and Union Ave.) and the Buck Owens Crystal Palace a unique museum, store, concert hall, and restaurant.\n\nThe Westchester neighborhood is just west of Downtown Bakersfield, although some people consider it to be part of Downtown. Westchester is bounded by the Kern River, \"F\" Street, BNSF Railroad Yard and State Route 99 (or Oak Street). Westchester is a mostly residential neighborhood. The neighborhood is known for large shady trees and historic homes built between the 1900s and 1960s. Main points of interest include the Kern County Museum (with the Beale Memorial Clock Tower), and Sam Lynn Ballpark.\n\nThe Oleander-Sunset Suburbs is located in central Bakersfield and sits on the southern end of downtown Bakersfield. The \"Oleander-Sunset Area\", consist of two neighborhoods the Lowell Community and the Oleander Community\". Oleander-Sunset, is bounded by California Avenue, Union Avenue, Freeway 58, and Freeway 99. It contains Lowell Park, Beale Park, Albertsons, Panda Express, AM PM, (\"Wise Buys Drugs / Post Office\"), Popeyes Chicken, \"Chester Outlet\", 7-Eleven, Taco Bell, \"Saigon Restaurant\", Carls Jr, \"Rainbow Donuts\", McDonald's Walgreens, \"Mount Zion Baptist Church\", Starbucks, \"Nagi’s Burgers\", H&R Block, \"Mr. Fast Liquor\", Lowell Place Senior Community, Bakersfield High School, Vista P. Continuation High School, \"Rafer Johnson Community School\", Emerson Junior High School, Roosevelt Elementary, McKinley Elementary, William Penn Elementary\", Family Dollar, Chester Market, the Lowell Neighborhood Community Center, the Ebony Counseling Center, the Maya Cinemas and the Kern County Black Chamber of Commerce. Depending on who a person talks to, the Oleander-Sunset suburbs may refer to the Oleander area only. The Oleander neighborhood is original bounded by: California Avenue, H Street, Freeway 58, and Oak Street. Traditionally, the Lowell neighborhood Community is bounded by California Avenue, Union Avenue, State Route 58, and H Street.\n\nBeing located in the heart of Bakersfield, getting to and from Downtown is relatively easy. State route 178 freeway ends at the eastern edge, and provides connection to the northeast. State route 99 is approximately 1/2 miles west, and provides north/south connection to the rest of the city. Golden State Ave (state route 204), as a freeway ends at the north edge of downtown, and provides access to the northwest.\n\nDowntown also is the primary hub for all modes of intracity and intercity transportation, except air travel. Golden Empire Transit (GET) provides transportation to Greater Bakersfield from the downtown transit center. Kern Regional Transit provides intercity transportation from GET downtown transit center or Amtrak station. Amtrak provides rail connection to the San Joaquin Valley north of Bakersfield, and several bus routes to points west, south and east of the city (with tickets that travel by train at least once).\n\nAlthough traveling to downtown is relatively easy by car, traveling through it is more difficult. Since SR 178 freeway and Golden State Avenue (SR 204 freeway) stop at the edge of Downtown, cars must travel on surface streets to connect to additional freeways. This has created heavy traffic on major connecting arterial roads, especially on 23rd Street and 24th Street, which are one-way in each direction. This is especially a problem for cars traveling from the northeast to the southwest, since 23rd/24th St. is the most direct route between those two points.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55480403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55480403", "title": "Edith Balas", "text": "Edith Balas\n\nEdith Balas is a Professor of Art History, College of Humanities & Social Sciences at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Born June 20, 1929 in Cluj, Romania, she is a Holocaust survivor, art professor, and historian. She is married to mathematician Egon Balas, also a retired professor at Carnegie Mellon.\n\nBalas' main areas of interest are modern art (1890-1960), painting and sculpture, and the art of the Italian Renaissance. In 2003, she curated an exhibition at the Frick Art Museum, and several in Pittsburgh, Paris, New York and Budapest. She has been teaching at Carnegie Mellon University since 1977, and is also an Adjunct Professor of History of Art and Architecture at the University of Pittsburgh.\n\nEdith Balas is also a Holocaust survivor, having been sent to the Nazi death camp Auschwitz. In \"Bird in Flight: Memoir of a Survivor and Scholar,\" Balas tells her story of facing grim situations and becoming what she describes as a “professional survivor.” Balas named her memoir “Bird in Flight” after Constantin Brâncuși’s famous sculpture of the same name. “I consider it emblematic of my life,” she said.\n\nAfter the war her husband was imprisoned by the communist authorities for three years, during which Balas raised their two daughters. She received an M.A. in Philosophy from the University of Bucharest in 1952. She then emigrated to the United States with her husband, and received an M.A. in the History of Arts from Pittsburgh University in 1970 and a Ph.D. in 1973.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4763828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4763828", "title": "Equal Opportunities Commission (United Kingdom)", "text": "Equal Opportunities Commission (United Kingdom)\n\nThe Equal Opportunities Commission (EOC) was an independent non-departmental public body, (NDPB) in the United Kingdom, which tackled sex discrimination and promoted gender equality. Its last chair was Jenny Watson.\n\nIt was set up under the Sex Discrimination Act 1975 and had statutory powers to help enforce this Act, the Equal Pay Act and other gender equality legislation that existed in Britain. Due to the ability of the Scottish Parliament and Welsh Assembly to vary the law in this area, separate EOC sub-agencies existed for Scotland and Wales. The EOC did not cover Northern Ireland, where instead these matters were dealt with by the Equality Commission for Northern Ireland.\nSimilar agencies existed for other categories of equality law in Great Britain. In October 2007 these all became part of a new single equality body, the Equality and Human Rights Commission.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1104562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1104562", "title": "Fast mapping", "text": "Fast mapping\n\nIn cognitive psychology, fast mapping is the term used for the hypothesized mental process whereby a new concept is learned (or a new hypothesis formed) based only on a single exposure to a given unit of information. Fast mapping is thought by some researchers to be particularly important during language acquisition in young children, and may serve (at least in part) to explain the prodigious rate at which children gain vocabulary. In order to successfully use the fast mapping process, a child must possess the ability to use \"referent selection\" and \"referent retention\" of a novel word. There is evidence that this can be done by children as young as two years old, even with the constraints of minimal time and several distractors. Previous research in fast mapping has also shown that children are able to retain a newly learned word for a substantial amount of time after they are subjected to the word for the first time (Carey and Bartlett, 1978). Further research by Markson and Bloom (1997), showed that children can remember a novel word a week after it was presented to them even with only one exposure to the novel word. While children have also displayed the ability to have equal recall for other types of information, such as novel facts, their ability to extend the information seems to be unique to novel words. This suggests that fast mapping is a specified mechanism for word learning. The process was first formally articulated and the term 'fast mapping' coined by Harvard researchers Susan Carey and Elsa Bartlett in 1978.\n\nToday, there is evidence to suggest that children do not learn words through 'fast mapping' but rather learn probabilistic, predictive relationships between objects and sounds that develop over time. Evidence for this comes, for example, from children's struggles to understand color words: although infants can distinguish between basic color categories, many sighted children use color words in the same way that blind children do up until the fourth year. Typically, words such as \"blue\" and \"yellow\" appear in their vocabularies and they produce them in appropriate places in speech, but their application of individual color terms is haphazard and interchangeable. If shown a blue cup and asked its color, typical three-year-olds seem as likely to answer \"red\" as \"blue.\" These difficulties persist up until around age four, even after hundreds of explicit training trials. The inability for children to understand color stems from the cognitive process of whole object constraint. Whole object constraint is the idea that a child will understand that a novel word represents the entirety of that object. Then, if the child is presented with further novel words, they attach inferred meanings to the object. However, color is the last attribute to be considered because it explains the least about the object itself. Children's behavior clearly indicates that they have knowledge of these words, but this knowledge is far from complete; rather it appears to be predictive, as opposed to all-or-none.\n\nAn alternate theory of deriving the meaning of newly learned words by young children during language acquisition stems from John Locke's \"associative proposal theory\". Compared to the \"intentional proposal theory\", associative proposal theory refers to the deduction of meaning by comparing the novel object to environmental stimuli. A study conducted by Yu & Ballard (2007), introduced cross-situational learning, a method based on Locke's theory. Cross-situtational learning theory is a mechanism in which the child learns meaning of words over multiple exposures in varying contexts in an attempt to eliminate uncertainty of the word's true meaning on an exposure-by-exposure basis.\n\nOn the other hand, more recent studies suggest that some amount of fast mapping does take place, questioning the validity of previous laboratory studies that aim to show that probabilistic learning does occur. A critique to the theory of fast mapping is how can children connect the meaning of the novel word with the novel word after just one exposure? For example, when showing a child a blue ball and saying the word \"blue\" how does the child know that the word blue explains the color of the ball, not the size, or shape? If children learn words by fast mapping than they must use inductive reasoning to understand the meaning associated with the novel word. A popular theory to explain this inductive reasoning is that children apply word-learning constraints to the situation where a novel word is introduced. There are speculations as to why this is; Markman and Wachtel (1988) conducted a study that helps explain the possible underlying principles of fast mapping. They claim children adhere to the theories of whole-object bias, the assumption that a novel label refers to the entire object rather than its parts, color, substance or other properties, and mutual exclusivity bias, the assumption that only one label applies to each object. In their experiment, children were presented with an object that they either were familiar with or was presented with a whole object term. Markman and Watchel concluded that the mere juxtaposition between familiar and novel terms may assist in part term acquisition. In other words, children will put constraints on themselves and assume the novel term refers to the whole object in view rather than to its parts. There have been six lexical constraints proposed (reference, extendibility, object scope, categorical scope, novel name, conventionality) that guide a child's learning of a novel word. When learning a new word children apply these constraints. However, this purposed method of constraints is not flawless. If children use these constraints there are many words that children will never learn such as actions, attributes, and parts. Studies have found that both toddlers and adults were more likely to categorize an object by its shape than its size or color.\n\nThe next question in fast mapping theory is how exactly is the meaning of the novel word learned? An experiment performed in October 2012 by the Department of Psychology by University of Pennsylvania, researchers attempted to determine if fast mapping occurs via cross-situational learning or by another method, \"Propose but verify\". In cross-situational learning, listeners hear a novel word and store multiple conjectures of what the word could mean based on its situational context. Then after multiple exposures the listener is able to target the meaning of the word by ruling out conjectures. In propose but verify, the learner makes a single conjecture about the meaning of the word after hearing the word used in context. The learner then carries that conjecture forward to be reevaluated and modified for consistency when the word is used again. The results of the experiment seems to support that propose but verify is the way by which learners fast map new words.\n\nThere is also controversy over whether words learned by fast mapping are retained or forgotten. Previous research has found that generally, children retain a newly learned word for a period of time after learning. In the aforementioned Carey and Bartlett study (1978), children who were taught the word \"chromium\" were found to keep the new lexical entry in working memory for several days, illustrating a process of gradual lexical alignment known as \"extended mapping.\" Another study, performed by Markson and Bloom (1997), showed that children remembered words up to 1 month after the study was conducted. However, more recent studies have shown that words learned by fast mapping tend to be forgotten over time. In a study conducted by Vlach and Sandhofer (2012), memory supports, which had been included in previous studies, were removed. This removal appeared to result in a low retention of words over time. This is a possible explanation for why previous studies showed high retention of words learned by fast mapping.\n\nSome researchers are concerned that experiments testing for fast mapping are produced in artificial settings. They feel that fast mapping doesn't occur as often in more real life, natural situations. They believe that testing for fast mapping should focus more on the actual understanding of a word instead of just its reproduction. For some, testing to see if the child can use the new word in a different situation constitutes true knowledge of a word, rather than simply identifying the new word.\n\nWhen learning novel words, it is believed that early exposure to multiple linguistic systems facilitates the acquisition of new words later in life. This effect was referred to by Kaushanskaya and Marian (2009) as the bilingual advantage. That being said, a bilingual individual's ability to fast map can vary greatly throughout their life.\n\nDuring the language acquisition process, a child may require a greater amount of time to determine a correct referent than a child who is a monolingual speaker. By the time a bilingual child is of school age, they perform equally on naming tasks when compared to monolingual children. By the age of adulthood, bilingual individuals have acquired word-learning strategies believed to be of assistance on fast mapping tasks. One example is speech practice, a strategy where the participant listens and reproduces the word in order to assist in remembering and decrease the likelihood of forgetting .\nBilingualism can increase an individual's cognitive abilities and contribute to their success in fast mapping words, even when they are using a nonnative language.\n\nChildren growing up in a low-socioeconomic status environment receive less attention than those in high-socioeconomic status environments. As a result, these children may be exposed to less words and therefore their language development may suffer. On norm-references vocabulary tests, children from low- socioeconomic homes tend to score lower than same-age children from a high-socioeconomic environment. However, when examining their fast mapping abilities there were no significant differences observed in their ability to learn and remember novel words. Children from low SES families were able to use multiple sources of information in order to fast map novel words. When working with children from low SES homes, providing a context of the word that attributes meaning, is a linguistic strategy that can benefit the child's word knowledge development.\n\nThree learning supports that have been proven to help with the fast mapping of words are saliency, repetition and generation of information. The amount of face-to-face interaction a child has with their parent affects his or her ability to fast map novel words. Interaction with a parent leads to greater exposure to words in different contexts, which in turn promotes language acquisition. Face to face interaction cannot be replaced by educational shows because although repetition is used, children do not receive the same level of correction or trial and error from simply watching. When a child is asked to generate the word it promotes the transition to long-term memory to a larger extent.\n\nIt appears that fast mapping is not only limited to humans, but can occur in dogs as well. In an experiment, a dog, named Rico, was able to learn the labels of over 200 various items. He was also able to identify novel objects simply by exclusion learning. Exclusion learning occurs when one learns the name of a novel object because one is already familiar with the names of other objects belonging to the same group. The researchers, who conducted the experiment, mention the possibility that a language acquisition device specific to humans does not control fast mapping. They believe that fast mapping is possibly directed by simple memory mechanisms.\n\nA study by Lederberg et al., was performed to determine if deaf and hard of hearing children fast map to learn novel words. In the study, when the novel word was introduced, the word was both spoken and signed. Then the children were asked to identify the referent object and even extend the novel word to identify a similar object. The results of the study indicated that deaf and hard of hearing children do perform fast mapping to learn novel words. However, compared to children with normal hearing (aging toddlers to 5 years old) the deaf and hard of hearing children did not fast map as accurately and successfully. The results showed a slight delay which disappeared as the children were a maximum of 5 years old. The conclusion that was drawn from the study is that the ability to fast map has a relationship to the size of the lexicon. The children with normal hearing had a larger lexicon and therefore were able to more accurately fast map compared to deaf and hard of hearing children who did not have as large of a lexicon. It is by around age 5 that deaf and hard of hearing children have a similar size lexicon to 5 year old children of normal hearing. This evidence supports the idea that fast mapping requires inductive reasoning so the larger the lexicon (number of known words) the easier it is for the child to reason out the accurate meaning for the novel word.\n\nIn the area of cochlear implants (CIs), there are variegated opinions on whether cochlear implants impact a child's ability to become a more successful fast mapper. In 2000, a study by Kirk, Myomoto, and others determined that there was a general correlation between the age of Cochlear Implant implementation and improved lexical skills (e.g. fast mapping and other vocabulary growth skills). They believed that children given implants prior to two years of age yielded higher success rates than older children between five and seven years of age. With that said, researchers at the University of Iowa wish to amend that very generalization. In 2013, \"Word Learning Processes in Children with Cochlear Implants\" by Elizabeth Walker and others indicated that although there may be a some levels of increased vocabulary acquisition in CI individuals, many post-implantees generally were slower developers of his/her own lexicon. Walker bases her claims on another research study in 2007 (Tomblin et al.) One of the purposes of this study was to note a CI child's ability to comprehend and retain novel words with related referents. When compared with non-deaf children, the CI children had lower success scores in retention. This finding was based on scorings obtained from their test: from 0 to 6 (0 the worst, 6 the best), CI children averaged a score around a 2.0 whereas non-deaf children scored higher (roughly 3.86).\n\nAn experiment was performed to assess fast mapping in adults with typical language abilities, disorders of spoken/written language (hDSWL), and adults with hDSWL and ADHD. \nThe conclusion draw from the experiment revealed that adults with ADHD were the least accurate at \"mapping semantic features and slower to respond to lexical labels.\" \nThe article reasoned that the tasks of fast mapping requires high attentional demand and so \"a lapse in attention could lead to diminished encoding of the new information.\"\n\nFast mapping in individuals with aphasia has gained research attention due to its effect on speaking, listening, reading, and writing. Research done by Blumstein makes an important distinction between those with Broca's aphasia, who are limited in physical speech, as compared to those with Wernicke's aphasia, who cannot link words with meaning. In Broca's aphasia, Blumstein found that whereas individuals with Wernicke's aphasia performed at the same level as the normal control group, those with Broca's aphasia showed slower reaction times for word presentations after reduced voice onset time stimuli. In short, when stimuli were acoustically altered, individuals with Broca's aphasia experienced difficulty recognizing the novel stimuli upon second presentation. Bloomstein's findings reinforce the crucial difference between one's ability to retain novel stimuli versus the ability to express novel stimuli. Because individuals with Wernicke's aphasia are only limited in their understanding of semantic meaning, it makes sense that the participant's novel stimulus recall would not be affected. On the other hand, those with Broca's aphasia lack the ability to produce speech, in effect hindering their ability to recall novel stimuli. Although individuals with Broca's aphasia are limited in their speech production, it is not clear whether they simply cannot formulate the physical speech or if they actually did not process the stimuli.\n\nResearch has also been done investigating fast mapping abilities in children with language deficits. One study done by Dollaghan compared children with normal language to those with expressive syntactic deficits, a type of specific language impairment characterized by simplified speech. The study found that normal and language impaired children did not differ in their ability to connect the novel word to referent or to comprehend the novel word after a single exposure. The only difference was that the language-impaired children were less successful in their production of the novel word. This implies that expressive language deficits are unrelated to the ability to connect word and referent in a single exposure. The problem for children with those deficits arises only when trying to convert that mental representation into verbal speech.\n\nA few researchers looked at fast mapping abilities in boys with autistic spectrum disorders (ASD), also referred to as autism spectrum, and boys with fragile X syndrome (FXS). The experimental procedure consisted of a presentation phase where two objects were presented, one of which was a novel object with a nonsense word name. This was followed by a comprehension testing phase, which assessed the boys' ability to remember and correctly select the novel objects. Even though all groups in the study had fast mapping performances above chance levels, in comparison to boys showing typical development, those with ASD and FXS demonstrated much more difficulty in comprehending and remembering names assigned to the novel objects. The authors concluded that initial processes involved in associative learning, such as fast mapping, are hindered in boys with FXS and ASD.\n\nResearch in artificial intelligence and machine learning to reproduce computationally this ability, termed one-shot learning. This is pursued to reduce the learning curve, as other models like reinforcement learning need thousand of exposures to a situation to learn it.\n\n"}
{"id": "43161665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43161665", "title": "Finn's Hotel", "text": "Finn's Hotel\n\nFinn's Hotel is a posthumously-published collection of ten short narrative pieces written by Irish author James Joyce. Written in 1923, the works were not published until 2013 by Ithys Press, who claimed the work to be a precursor to Joyce's \"Finnegans Wake\".\n\nIthys Press published their fine arts edition of \"Finn's Hotel\" in June 2013. The edition was arranged with a preface by Danis Rose, an introduction by Seamus Deane, featuring eleven illustrations by Casey Sorrow, and design and letterpress printed by Michael Caine.\n\nThe publication attracted controversy as some Joyce scholars labeled the works as drafts, not meant for publication. \n\nIn the spring of 2014, James O'Sullivan wrote an article for Genetic Joyce Studies, “Finn’s Hotel and the Joycean Canon”, which uses computational stylistics to analyze the text of \"Finn's Hotel\" to determine whether the text is merely early drafts or should be part of Joyce's canon. O'Sullivan concluded that \"the fragments within \"Finn’s Hotel\" are most likely drafts for what became \"Finnegans Wake\"\" and that statistically \"the criticisms of Ithys Press are seemingly upheld.\"\n"}
{"id": "23856809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23856809", "title": "First possession theory of property", "text": "First possession theory of property\n\nThe \"first possession\" theory of property holds that ownership of something is justified simply by someone seizing it before someone else does. This contrasts with the labor theory of property where something may become property only by applying productive labor to it, i.e. by making something out of the materials of nature.\n\n"}
{"id": "48361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48361", "title": "Geographic coordinate system", "text": "Geographic coordinate system\n\nA geographic coordinate system is a coordinate system used in geography that enables every location on Earth to be specified by a set of numbers, letters or symbols. The coordinates are often chosen such that one of the numbers represents a vertical position, and two or three of the numbers represent a horizontal position. A common choice of coordinates is latitude, longitude and elevation.\n\nTo specify a location on a two-dimensional map requires a map projection.\n\nThe invention of a geographic coordinate system is generally credited to Eratosthenes of Cyrene, who composed his now-lost \"Geography\" at the Library of Alexandria in the 3rd century BC. A century later, Hipparchus of Nicaea improved on this system by determining latitude from stellar measurements rather than solar altitude and determining longitude by timings of lunar eclipses, rather than dead reckoning. In the 1st or 2nd century, Marinus of Tyre compiled an extensive gazetteer and mathematically-plotted world map using coordinates measured east from a prime meridian at the westernmost known land, designated the Fortunate Isles, off the coast of western Africa around the Canary or Cape Verde Islands, and measured north or south of the island of Rhodes off Asia Minor. Ptolemy credited him with the full adoption of longitude and latitude, rather than measuring latitude in terms of the length of the midsummer day.\n\nPtolemy's 2nd-century \"Geography\" used the same prime meridian but measured latitude from the Equator instead. After their work was translated into Arabic in the 9th century, Al-Khwārizmī's \"Book of the Description of the Earth\" corrected Marinus' and Ptolemy's errors regarding the length of the Mediterranean Sea, causing medieval Arabic cartography to use a prime meridian around 10° east of Ptolemy's line. Mathematical cartography resumed in Europe following Maximus Planudes' recovery of Ptolemy's text a little before 1300; the text was translated into Latin at Florence by Jacobus Angelus around 1407.\n\nIn 1884, the United States hosted the International Meridian Conference, attended by representatives from twenty-five nations. Twenty-two of them agreed to adopt the longitude of the Royal Observatory in Greenwich, England as the zero-reference line. The Dominican Republic voted against the motion, while France and Brazil abstained. France adopted Greenwich Mean Time in place of local determinations by the Paris Observatory in 1911.\n\nThe \"latitude\" (abbreviation: Lat., φ, or phi) of a point on Earth's surface is the angle between the equatorial plane and the straight line that passes through that point and through (or close to) the center of the Earth. Lines joining points of the same latitude trace circles on the surface of Earth called parallels, as they are parallel to the Equator and to each other. The North Pole is 90° N; the South Pole is 90° S. The 0° parallel of latitude is designated the Equator, the fundamental plane of all geographic coordinate systems. The Equator divides the globe into Northern and Southern Hemispheres.\nThe \"longitude\" (abbreviation: Long., λ, or lambda) of a point on Earth's surface is the angle east or west of a reference meridian to another meridian that passes through that point. All meridians are halves of great ellipses (often called great circles), which converge at the North and South Poles. The meridian of the British Royal Observatory in Greenwich, in south-east London, England, is the international prime meridian, although some organizations—such as the French Institut Géographique National—continue to use other meridians for internal purposes. The prime meridian determines the proper Eastern and Western Hemispheres, although maps often divide these hemispheres further west in order to keep the Old World on a single side. The antipodal meridian of Greenwich is both 180°W and 180°E. This is not to be conflated with the International Date Line, which diverges from it in several places for political reasons, including between far eastern Russia and the far western Aleutian Islands.\n\nThe combination of these two components specifies the position of any location on the surface of Earth, without consideration of altitude or depth. The grid formed by lines of latitude and longitude is known as a \"graticule\". The origin/zero point of this system is located in the Gulf of Guinea about south of Tema, Ghana.\n\nTo completely specify a location of a topographical feature on, in, or above Earth, one also has to specify the vertical distance from Earth's center or surface.\n\nEarth is not a sphere, but an irregular shape approximating a biaxial ellipsoid. It is nearly spherical, but has an equatorial bulge making the radius at the Equator about 0.3% larger than the radius measured through the poles. The shorter axis approximately coincides with the axis of rotation. Though early navigators thought of the sea as a flat surface that could be used as a vertical datum, this is not actually the case. Earth has a series of layers of equal potential energy within its gravitational field. Height is a measurement at right angles to this surface, roughly toward Earth's center, but local variations make the equipotential layers irregular (though roughly ellipsoidal). The choice of which layer to use for defining height is arbitrary.\n\nCommon height baselines include\nAlong with the latitude formula_1 and longitude formula_2, the height formula_3 provides the three-dimensional \"geodetic coordinates\" or \"geographic coordinates\" for a location.\n\nIn order to be unambiguous about the direction of \"vertical\" and the \"surface\" above which they are measuring, map-makers choose a reference ellipsoid with a given origin and orientation that best fits their need for the area they are mapping. They then choose the most appropriate mapping of the spherical coordinate system onto that ellipsoid, called a terrestrial reference system or geodetic datum.\n\nDatums may be global, meaning that they represent the whole Earth, or they may be local, meaning that they represent an ellipsoid best-fit to only a portion of the Earth. Points on the Earth's surface move relative to each other due to continental plate motion, subsidence, and diurnal Earth tidal movement caused by the Moon and the Sun. This daily movement can be as much as a metre. Continental movement can be up to a year, or in a century. A weather system high-pressure area can cause a sinking of . Scandinavia is rising by a year as a result of the melting of the ice sheets of the last ice age, but neighbouring Scotland is rising by only . These changes are insignificant if a local datum is used, but are statistically significant if a global datum is used.\n\nExamples of global datums include World Geodetic System (WGS 84), the default datum used for the Global Positioning System, and the International Terrestrial Reference Frame (ITRF), used for estimating continental drift and crustal deformation. The distance to Earth's center can be used both for very deep positions and for positions in space.\n\nLocal datums chosen by a national cartographical organisation include the North American Datum, the European ED50, and the British OSGB36. Given a location, the datum provides the latitude formula_1 and longitude formula_2. In the United Kingdom there are three common latitude, longitude, and height systems in use. WGS 84 differs at Greenwich from the one used on published maps OSGB36 by approximately 112m. The military system ED50, used by NATO, differs from about 120m to 180m.\n\nThe latitude and longitude on a map made against a local datum may not be the same as one obtained from a GPS receiver. Coordinates from the mapping system can sometimes be roughly changed into another datum using a simple translation. For example, to convert from ETRF89 (GPS) to the Irish Grid add 49 metres to the east, and subtract 23.4 metres from the north. More generally one datum is changed into any other datum using a process called Helmert transformations. This involves converting the spherical coordinates into Cartesian coordinates and applying a seven parameter transformation (translation, three-dimensional rotation), and converting back.\n\nIn popular GIS software, data projected in latitude/longitude is often represented as a 'Geographic Coordinate System'. For example, data in latitude/longitude if the datum is the North American Datum of 1983 is denoted by 'GCS North American 1983'.\n\nTo establish the position of a geographic location on a map, a map projection is used to convert geodetic coordinates to two-dimensional coordinates on a map; it projects the datum ellipsoidal coordinates and height onto a flat surface of a map. The datum, along with a map projection applied to a grid of reference locations, establishes a \"grid system\" for plotting locations. Common map projections in current use include the Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM), the Military Grid Reference System (MGRS), the United States National Grid (USNG), the Global Area Reference System (GARS) and the World Geographic Reference System (GEOREF).\nCoordinates on a map are usually in terms northing N and easting E offsets relative to a specified origin.\n\nMap projection formulas depend in the geometry of the projection as well as parameters dependent on the particular location at which the map is projected. The set of parameters can vary based on type of project and the conventions chosen for the projection. For the transverse Mercator projection used in UTM, the parameters associated are the latitude and longitude of the natural origin, the false northing and false easting, and an overall scale factor. Given the parameters associated with particular location or grin, the projection formulas for the transverse Mercator are a complex mix of algebraic and trigonometric functions.\n\nThe Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) and Universal Polar Stereographic (UPS) coordinate systems both use a metric-based cartesian grid laid out on a conformally projected surface to locate positions on the surface of the Earth. The UTM system is not a single map projection but a series of sixty, each covering 6-degree bands of longitude. The UPS system is used for the polar regions, which are not covered by the UTM system.\n\nDuring medieval times, the stereographic coordinate system was used for navigation purposes. The stereographic coordinate system was superseded by the latitude-longitude system. Although no longer used in navigation, the stereographic coordinate system is still used in modern times to describe crystallographic orientations in the fields of crystallography, mineralogy and materials science.\n\nEvery point that is expressed in ellipsoidal coordinates can be expressed as an rectilinear (Cartesian) coordinate. Cartesian coordinates simplify many mathematical calculations. The Cartesian systems of different datums are not equivalent.\n\nThe earth-centered earth-fixed (also known as the ECEF, ECF, or conventional terrestrial coordinate system) rotates with the Earth and has its origin at the center of the Earth.\n\nThe conventional right-handed coordinate system puts:\n\nAn example is the NGS data for a brass disk near Donner Summit, in California. Given the dimensions of the ellipsoid, the conversion from lat/lon/height-above-ellipsoid coordinates to X-Y-Z is straightforward—calculate the X-Y-Z for the given lat-lon on the surface of the ellipsoid and add the X-Y-Z vector that is perpendicular to the ellipsoid there and has length equal to the point's height above the ellipsoid. The reverse conversion is harder: given X-Y-Z we can immediately get longitude, but no closed formula for latitude and height exists. See \"Geodetic system.\" Using Bowring's formula in 1976 \"Survey Review\" the first iteration gives latitude correct within 10 degree as long as the point is within 10000 meters above or 5000 meters below the ellipsoid.\n\nIn many targeting and tracking applications the local East, North, Up (ENU) Cartesian coordinate system is far more intuitive and practical than ECEF or Geodetic coordinates. The local ENU coordinates are formed from a plane tangent to the Earth's surface fixed to a specific location and hence it is sometimes known as a \"Local Tangent\" or \"local geodetic\" plane. By convention the east axis is labeled formula_6, the north formula_7 and the up formula_8.\n\nAlso known as local tangent plane (LTP). In an airplane, most objects of interest are below the aircraft, so it is sensible to define down as a positive number. The North, East, Down (NED) coordinates allow this as an alternative to the ENU local tangent plane. By convention, the north axis is labeled formula_9, the east formula_10 and the down formula_11. To avoid confusion between formula_6 and formula_9, etc. in this article we will restrict the local coordinate frame to ENU.\n\nOn the GRS80 or WGS84 spheroid at sea level at the Equator, one latitudinal second measures \"30.715 metres\", one latitudinal minute is \"1843 metres\" and one latitudinal degree is \"110.6 kilometres\". The circles of longitude, meridians, meet at the geographical poles, with the west-east width of a second naturally decreasing as latitude increases. On the Equator at sea level, one longitudinal second measures \"30.92 metres\", a longitudinal minute is \"1855 metres\" and a longitudinal degree is \"111.3 kilometres\". At 30° a longitudinal second is \"26.76 metres\", at Greenwich (51°28′38″N) \"19.22 metres\", and at 60° it is \"15.42 metres\".\n\nOn the WGS84 spheroid, the length in meters of a degree of latitude at latitude φ (that is, the distance along a north–south line from latitude (φ − 0.5) degrees to (φ + 0.5) degrees) is about\n\nSimilarly, the length in meters of a degree of longitude can be calculated as\n\nAn alternative method to estimate the length of a longitudinal degree at latitude formula_16 is to assume a spherical Earth (to get the width per minute and second, divide by 60 and 3600, respectively):\n\nwhere Earth's average meridional radius formula_18 is . Since the Earth is not spherical that result can be off by several tenths of a percent; a better approximation of a longitudinal degree at latitude formula_16 is\n\nwhere Earth's equatorial radius formula_21 equals \"6,378,137 m\" and formula_22; for the GRS80 and WGS84 spheroids, b/a calculates to be 0.99664719. (formula_23 is known as the reduced (or parametric) latitude). Aside from rounding, this is the exact distance along a parallel of latitude; getting the distance along the shortest route will be more work, but those two distances are always within 0.6 meter of each other if the two points are one degree of longitude apart.\n\nGeostationary satellites (e.g., television satellites) are over the Equator at a specific point on Earth, so their position related to Earth is expressed in longitude degrees only. Their latitude is always zero (or approximately so), that is, over the Equator.\n\nSimilar coordinate systems are defined for other celestial bodies such as:\n\n"}
{"id": "28945891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28945891", "title": "Golden Mic Awards", "text": "Golden Mic Awards\n\nThe Golden Mic Awards (Chinese: 金唛奖; previously known as Singapore Radio Awards) is an accolade by Singapore's MediaCorp to recognize excellence of presenters and producers in MediaCorp Radio. Although the moniker Singapore may suggest a representation of all radio stations in Singapore, the nominations are only open to deejay talents from MediaCorp Radio. It was previously known as the Singapore Radio Awards from 2005 to 2011.\n\nPrior to the SRA, the three Chinese radio stations (Y.E.S. 93.3FM, Capital 95.8FM and Love 97.2FM) under MediaCorp held their own \"Golden Mike Awards\" (GMA). The last GMA was held in 2004 and the SRA was born a few months later to encompass stations from all four languages that MediaCorp broadcast in: English, Chinese, Malay and Tamil.\n\nThe first SRA was held in 2005, and was renamed MRA in 2013.\n\nThe first SRA ceremony was held in 2004 at Raffles City Convention Centre. It was a trade event, whereby clients of MediaCorp were invited for a formal sit down dinner. Listeners were not invited to the show. \n\nThe 2nd SRA was held in 2005 in Shangri La Hotel's Island Ballroom. The 3rd SRA was held at the same location in 2006. Similarly, only trade clients were invited. \n\nThe 4th SRA in 2007 was held at Suntec Convention Centre. For the first time, listeners were invited to purchase tickets to attend. All nominees were involved in the opening sequence. \n\nThe SRA discontinued in 2008 and 2009. \n\nSingapore Radio Awards 2010 was held in MediaCorp's TV Theatre, with a live webcast on its official site. Florence Lian, former radio DJ and Singapore Idol judge, currently MediaCorp's Managing Director for Radio, opened the show with a monologue. The hosts were Vernon A and Justin Ang from 987FM. Award presenters included Irene Ang, Bobby Tonelli, as well as MediaCorp's senior management.\n\n987FM were the biggest winners for the night, sweeping \"Best Radio Show\", \"Most Creative English Trailer\", and \"Best Radio Personality Blog\".\n\nSingapore Radio Awards 2011 was telecast live on Channel 5. \n\nMediaCorp Radio Awards 2013 will be held on 15 November. The show will be telecast live on Channel 5.\n\nAll weekday presenters were automatically nominated for the \"Most Popular DJ\" Award for the respective stations. The results are based on SMS polling.\n\nNominees for other awards were selected by a panel of professionals in the industry.\n"}
{"id": "34573441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34573441", "title": "Institute of Oriental Manuscripts of the Russian Academy of Sciences", "text": "Institute of Oriental Manuscripts of the Russian Academy of Sciences\n\nThe Institute of Oriental Manuscripts (IOM) of the Russian Academy of Sciences (RAS; ), formerly the St. Petersburg Branch of the Institute of Oriental Studies of the Russian Academy of Sciences, is a research institute in Saint Petersburg, Russia that houses various collections of manuscripts and early printed material in Asian languages, including Arabic, Chinese, Mongolian, Tibetan, and Tangut.\n\nThe origins of the IOM date back to 1818, when the Russian Academy of Sciences learned that Louis-Jacques Rousseau (1780–1831), the French consul at Aleppo and Tripoli (then both part of the Ottoman Empire), was selling his extensive collection of manuscripts written in the Arabic script. In November of that year, the president of the RAS, Count Sergey Uvarov, wrote to the Board of the RAS requesting that a separate room be put aside in the Academy's cabinet of curiosities for storing this collection of manuscripts (which was eventually purchased by the RAS in two tranches, in 1819 and 1825), as well as other medals, manuscripts and books of oriental origin already in the Museum of the Imperial Academy of Science. The result was the establishment of the Asiatic Museum () of the RAS, in Saint Petersburg.\n\nThe Asiatic Museum quickly established itself as the main institute for the collection and study of oriental manuscripts and books in Russia, as well as a major international centre for oriental studies, and by the time of the Russian Revolution in 1917, almost a hundred years after its foundation, it housed one of the most extensive collections of oriental manuscripts and printed books in the world. Following the Russian Revolution, the Asiatic Museum continued under the same name until May 1930, when the Institute of Oriental Studies (IOS) of the Academy of Sciences of the USSR was founded, and the Asiatic Museum was incorporated into this new institute. The IOS was originally located within the Library of the Russian Academy of Sciences in Leningrad (the name for Saint Petersburg during the Soviet era), but in 1949 it moved to its own premises in one wing of the New Michael Palace (the other wing was occupied by the Institute for the History of Material Culture). Then two years later, in 1951, the institute was relocated to its own premises in Moscow. However, for practical reasons the institute's main library and its collections of manuscripts and early printed books remained at the New Michael Palace in Leningrad as the Department of Oriental Manuscripts of the IOS.\n\nFive years after the move of the IOS to Moscow, in February 1956, the Department of Oriental Manuscripts in Leningrad was reconstituted as the Leningrad Branch of the IOS. Whereas the main Moscow branch of the IOS concentrated on modern studies, the Leningrad branch specialized in the study of ancient and medieval oriental history, literature and languages, as well as in the production of critical editions of texts in its collections.\n\nAfter the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, it continued as a branch of the IOS, albeit now renamed the Saint Petersburg Branch of the Institute of Oriental Studies of the Russian Academy of Sciences, until 2007. In 2007 the Saint Petersburg branch separated from the IOS to become an independent institute under the RAS. The new institute, which assumed the title of Institute of Oriental Manuscripts in late 2009, continues to occupy one wing of the New Michael Palace.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe IOM has a collection of more than 100,000 manuscripts and early printed books, encompassing about 65 different languages, including Arabic, Armenian, Chinese, Ethiopian, Georgian, Hebrew, Japanese, Korean, Kurdish, Manchu, Mongolian, Persian, Sanskrit, Sogdian, Tajik, Tangut, Tibetan, Turkic, and Uyghur.\n\nThe foundation for the manuscript collection at the Asiatic Museum were some 700 Arabic script manuscripts belonging to Jean-Baptiste Louis-Jacques Rousseau that were acquired in 1819 (500 manuscripts) and 1826 (200 manuscripts). The first director of the Asiatic Museum, Christian Martin Frähn, augmented the museum's holdings in Arabic manuscripts, and by 1828 the museum housed some 851 Arabic, Persian and Turkic manuscripts. However, the collection of Arabic manuscripts did not grow substantially until the early 20th century. In 1915, Vladimir Alexeyevich Ivanov purchased some 1,057 manuscripts from Bukhara, and in 1916–1917, S. V. Ter-Avetisyan, curator of the Caucasian Museum in Tbilisi, sent a large number of manuscripts that he had collected to the Asiatic Museum, including more than a thousand Arabic manuscripts.\n\nThe IOM has one of the largest collections of Tibetan books and manuscripts in the world, comprising over 20,000 catalogued items, as well as many as yet uncatalogued items. The history of the collection dates back to the 1720s when Tibetan texts from a ruined monastery along the Irtysh River were brought back to Saint Petersburg. During the 18th and 19th centuries more Tibetan and Tibeto-Mongolian woodblock-printed books were collected from Buryat monasteries in Siberia. Other Tibetan and Mongolian books were sent back to Russia by members of the Russian Spiritual Mission in China during the 19th century. By the start of the 20th century the Asiatic Museum had the largest collection of Tibetan books and manuscripts in Europe, but it was still deficient in some areas. The remaining gaps in the collection were filled by Gombojab Tsybikov and B. Baradiyn (1878–1937) who visited Tibet in 1899–1902 and 1905–1907 respectively.\n\nThe IOM holds the world's foremost collection of manuscripts written in the extinct Tangut language, which were collected by the explorer Pyotr Kozlov from the Western Xia fortress city of Khara-Khoto in Inner Mongolia during 1907–1909. The city had been abandoned in the late 14th century, and had been largely buried in sand for several hundred years. Kozlov unearthed thousands of manuscripts and woodblock prints, mostly written in the dead Tangut script, which had been preserved beneath the sands of Khara-Khoto. The manuscripts, books and archaeological artefacts that Kozlov brought back from Khara-Khoto were originally housed in the museum of Alexander III of Russia in Saint Petersburg, but the manuscripts and printed books were transferred to the Asiatic Museum in 1911. In addition to the several thousand Tangut texts, the Kozlov Collection includes about 660 manuscripts and printed books in Chinese, mostly Buddhist texts, as well as about 120 Tibetan texts.\n\nSergey Oldenburg, director of the Asiatic Museum from 1916, made two expeditions to Central Asia (1909–1910 and 1914–1915). During the first expedition Oldenburg explored a number of sites around Turpan, including Shikchin, Yarkhoto and Kucha, and collected murals, paintings, terracottas, and about one hundred manuscripts, mostly fragments written in the Brahmi script. During his second expedition Oldenburg surveyed the Mogao Caves at Dunhuang, and revisited some of the sites in Turpan that he had visited during his first expedition. He found a large number of artefacts and manuscript fragments (nearly 20,000 fragments, some of them tiny) at Dunhuang, and also purchased about 300 scrolls from local people. The IOM holds the more than 19,000 manuscript fragments and 365 manuscript scrolls collected from Dunhuang by Oldenburg, as well as about thirty manuscripts collected by Sergey Malov during an expedition to Khotan during 1909–1910, and some 183 Uyghur manuscripts collected by N. N. Krotkov, the Russian Consul in Urumqi and Ghulja.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2038684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2038684", "title": "International Humanist and Ethical Union", "text": "International Humanist and Ethical Union\n\nThe International Humanist and Ethical Union (IHEU) is an umbrella organisation of humanist, atheist, rationalist, secular, skeptic, freethought and Ethical Culture organisations worldwide. British philosopher and biologist Julian Huxley (also the first director of UNESCO) presided over the founding Congress of the IHEU in Amsterdam, 1952; Dutch philosopher and politician Jaap van Praag became its first chairman until 1975.\n\nThe IHEU works \"to build and represent the global Humanist movement that defends human rights and promotes Humanist values world-wide.\"\n\nIn 2002, the IHEU General Assembly unanimously adopted the Amsterdam Declaration 2002, which presents as the \"official defining statement of World Humanism\". The Happy Human is the official symbol of the IHEU.\n\nIHEU holds a World Humanist Congress usually every three years. The next is to be held in Miami, United States, in 2020.\n\nIn 2002 at the IHEU's 50th anniversary World Humanist Congress, delegates unanimously passed a resolution known as the Amsterdam Declaration 2002, an update of the original Amsterdam Declaration (1952).\n\nThe Amsterdam Declaration defines Humanism as a \"lifestance\" that is \"ethical\", \"rational\", supportive of \"democracy and human rights\", insisting \"that personal liberty must be combined with social responsibility\"; it is \"an alternative to dogmatic religion\"; it values \"artistic creativity and imagination\" and is aimed at living lives of \"fulfillment\" through the powers of \"free inquiry\", \"science\" and \"creative imagination\".\n\nIn addition to the Amsterdam Declaration's \"official statement of World Humanism\", the IHEU provides a \"Minimum Statement on Humanism\":\n\nHumanism is a democratic and ethical life stance, which affirms that human beings have the right and responsibility to give meaning and shape to their own lives. It stands for the building of a more humane society through an ethic based on human and other natural values in the spirit of reason and free inquiry through human capabilities. It is not theistic, and it does not accept supernatural views of reality.Member Organisations of the IHEU are required according to IHEU's membership regulations to have objects that are \"consistent\" with this understanding of Humanism.\n\nIn 2010, in an \"unprecedented alliance\" of the IHEU, the European Humanist Federation and Catholics for Choice, launched the Brussels Declaration, a secular response to a proposed Berlin Declaration, under which the amended EU Constitution would have made references to \"God\" and the \"Christian roots of Europe\".\n\nAt World Humanist Congress 2011, in Norway, the IHEU General Assembly adopted The Oslo Declaration on Peace, which concludes: \"We urge each of our member organizations and Humanists globally to work for a more peaceful culture in their own nations and urge all governments to prefer the peaceful settlement of conflicts over the alternative of violence and war.\"\n\nAt World Humanist Congress 2014, in the United Kingdom, the IHEU General Assembly adopted The Oxford Declaration on Freedom of Thought and Expression, which asserts: \"Freedom of thought implies the right to develop, hold, examine and manifest our beliefs without coercion, and to express opinions and a worldview whether religious or non-religious, without fear of coercion. It includes the right to change our views or to reject beliefs previously held, or previously ascribed. Pressure to conform to ideologies of the state or to doctrines of religion is a tyranny.\"\n\nFive Humanist organisations, the American Ethical Union, American Humanist Association, British Ethical Union (later the British Humanist Association and now Humanists UK), Vienna Ethical Society and the Dutch Humanist league hosted the founding congress of the IHEU in Amsterdam, 22–27 August 1952. On the last day of the congress five resolutions were passed, which included a statement of the fundamentals of \"modern, ethical Humanism\", a resolution which would come to be known as the Amsterdam Declaration (1952).\n\nThe IHEU is a democratic organisation, the Board of which is elected by representatives of the Member Organisations at annual General Assemblies. The President as of 2015 is Andrew Copson (who is also the Chief Executive of Humanists UK as of 2010). The IHEU headquarters is in London, sharing an office with Humanists UK.\n\nRepresentatives of IHEU Member Organisations ratify new memberships annually during a General Assembly. Following the 2017 General Assembly, the IHEU listed its membership as 139 Member Organisations from 53 countries from a variety of non-religious traditions.\n\nA staff of four is headed by the current Chief Executive, Gary McLelland, and the IHEU maintains delegations to the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva, the United Nations in New York, and the Council of Europe in Strasbourg.\n\nThe IHEU is an international NGO with Special Consultative Status with the United Nations, General Consultative Status at the Council of Europe, Observer Status with the African Commission on Human and Peoples’ Rights, and maintains operational relations with UNESCO.\n\nIHEU has a wing for people aged up to 35 called the International Humanist and Ethical Youth Organisation (IHEYO).\n\nThe name of the IHEU may soon change, as delegates at the organization's 2017 General Assembly passed a resolution \"mandating the Board to oversee a transition to a revised identity for the organization\".\n\nThe aim of the IHEU is to \"build, support and represent the global humanist movement, defending human rights, particularly those of non-religious people, and promoting humanist values world-wide\". As a campaigning NGO the IHEU aims \"to influence international policy through representation and information, to build the humanist network, and let the world know about the worldview of Humanism.\"\n\nIn 2012 the IHEU began publishing an annual report on \"discrimination against humanists, atheists and the non-religious\" called The Freedom of Thought Report.\n\nThe report centres around a \"Country Index\" with a textual entry for every sovereign state.\n\nEach country is measured against a list of 64 boundary conditions, which are categorised into four thematic categories (\"Constitution and government\", \"Education and children's rights\", \"Family, community, society, religious courts and tribunals\", and \"Freedom of expression, advocacy of humanist values\") at five levels of overall \"severity\" (\"Free and equal\", \"Mostly satisfactory\", \"Systemic discrimination\", \"Severe discrimination\" and \"Grave violations\"). The 64 boundary conditions include for example: \"‘Apostasy’ or conversion from a specific religion is outlawed and punishable by death\", which is placed at the worst level of severity, and under the category \"Freedom of expression\", and: \"There is state funding of at least some religious schools\", which is a middle severity condition, under the category \"Education and children's rights\". The data from the report is freely available under a Creative Commons license.\n\nIn 2017, the report found that 30 countries meet at least one boundary condition at the most severe level (\"Grave violations\"), and a further 55 countries met at least one boundary condition in the next most severe level (\"Severe discrimination\").\nThe various annual editions of the Freedom of Thought Report have been reported in the media under headlines such as: \"How the right to deny the existence of God is under threat globally\" (the Independent, UK); \"Most countries fail to respect rights of atheists – report\" (Christian Today); and \"Stephen Fry's mockery of religion could land him the death penalty in these countries\" (the Washington Post). The report has received coverage in the national media of countries that are severely criticised, for example \"Malaysia's free thought, religious expression under 'serious assault', study shows\" (the Malay Mail).\n\nForewords and prefaces to the various annual editions of report have been written by then-United Nations Special Rapporteurs on Freedom of Religion or Belief, Heiner Bielefeldt, in 2012; two victims of \"blasphemy\" accusations, Kacem El Ghazzali and Alber Saber in 2013; human rights defenders Gulalai Ismail and Agnes Ojera in 2014; humanist activist and survivor of an anti-secularist machete attack in Bangladesh, Rafida Ahmed Bonya (2015); and United Nations Special Rapporteurs on Freedom of Religion or Belief, Ahmed Shaheed, in 2016. In 2015 and 2016 the annual edition of the Freedom of Thought Report was launched at the European Parliament in Brussels hosted by the European Parliamentary Intergroup on Freedom of Religion or Belief and Religious Tolerance chaired by Dennis de Jong MEP.\n\nIn his foreword to the first edition of the Freedom of Thought Report, Heiner Bielefeldt wrote: \"As a universal human right, freedom of religion or belief has a broad application. However, there seems to be little awareness that this right also provides a normative frame of reference for atheists, humanists and freethinkers and their convictions, practices and organizations. I am therefore delighted that for the first time the Humanist community has produced a global report on discrimination against atheists. I hope it will be given careful consideration by everyone concerned with freedom of religion or belief.\"\n\nAt a panel event at the European Parliament for the launch of the 2015 edition, Bielefeldt said he \"unambiguously welcomed\" the report and reiterated with regard to \"freedom of religion or belief\" that it is \"only a kind of short-hand\", and \"Formulations such as \"religious freedom\" obfuscate the scope of this human right which covers the identity-shaping, profound convictions and conviction-based practices of human beings broadly.\"\n\nThe report was the subject of a question in the UK Parliament in 2013, to which David Lidington MP responded for the government asserting, \"Our freedom of religion or belief policy is consistent with the key message of the International Humanist and Ethical Union's (IHEU) report: that international human rights law exists to protect the rights of individuals to manifest their beliefs, not to protect the beliefs themselves. The report records a sharp increase in the number of prosecutions for alleged criticism of religion by atheists on social media. Protecting freedom of expression online is a priority for the British Government and we have consistently argued against attempts to create a new international standard in order to protect religions from criticism.\"\n\nThe IHEU denies it is an Islamophobic organisation, and that its criticism of the tenets of Islam is an acceptable use of freedom of speech . The 2018 Freedom of Thought report , which focuses mainly on the treatment of religious and non-religious minorities in Muslim countries, has, however, been condemned for being openly Islamophobic in its coverage of the application of \"Sharia\"-based laws in the Islamic Republic of Iran . The report, which was largely unsourced, and whose research methodology is not given, cited the \"testimony\" of an atheist woman claiming that atheists in Iran were being sentenced to death for admitting their lack of belief: no cases involving the prosecution of persons in Iran simply for declaring their atheism have been reported by civil rights groups. The report also made a number of other spurious and dubious claims such as that members of the Baha'i sect, which is not recognised as a religion in Iran, could be killed with impunity under Islamic law and that atheists could be put to death for the crime of \"Moharebeh\" (waging war on God), even though this refers only to those who violently taken up arms against the authorities and not the non-religious or religious dissenters. Like many other human rights groups, the report confuses \"Sharia\" - the Muslim code of practice and way of life - with the implementation of corporal punishments (Hadd/Hudud) such as flogging and amputation. Muslims have repeatedly objected to the way in which the \"Sharia\" that they follow is caricatured in terms of certain physical penalties like these .\n\nRecurring themes of the IHEU's advocacy and campaigns work include LGBTI rights and women's rights, sexual and reproductive health and rights, laws against blasphemy and apostasy, caste-based discrimination, slavery, and advocacy of secularism.\n\nIndividuals persecuted for expressing their non-religious views (actual or perceived) have frequently been the subject of IHEU campaigns. Some prominent cases include:\nThe IHEU delegation at the United Nations Human Rights Council has repeatedly raised the imprisonment and corporal punishment of Raif Badawi for \"insulting religion\", and Waleed Abulkhair for \"disrespecting the authorities\", both in Saudi Arabia.\n\nThe IHEU similarly highlights cases where individuals are accused of \"apostasy\", such as the blogger Mohamed Cheikh Ould Mkhaitir currently on death row in Mauritania, and the poet Ashraf Fayadh currently imprisoned in Saudi Arabia. In June 2016 at the 32nd session of the Human Rights Council the IHEU's delegate took the unusual step of reading one of Ashraf Fayadh's poems during General Debate.\n\nThe IHEU complained that fundamentalists linked to the government were \"terrorising\" secular activists, including individuals in connection with IHEU Member Organisations, as far back as 2006. However, a series of machete attacks primarily targeting secular and atheist bloggers and freethinkers in Bangladesh has been especially severe since 2013, and the IHEU has campaigned persistently in response and highlighted the murders at the UN Human Rights Council.\n\nThe IHEU responded in 2013 to the murder of blogger and activist Ahmed Rajib Haider and the machete attack on his friend Asif Mohiuddin, and highlighted the subsequent arrest and imprisonment of Mohiuddin and others for \"hurting religious sentiments\".\n\nWhen author and prominent leader of the Bengali freethought movement Avijit Roy was murdered, 26 February 2015, the IHEU revealed that he had been advising them on the situation in Bangladesh; the IHEU's Director of Communications commented, \"This loss is keenly felt by freethinkers and humanists in South Asia and around the world. He was a colleague in humanism and a friend to all who respect human rights, freedom, and the light of reason.\"\n\nFollowing the murder of Washiqur Rahman Babu (or Oyasiqur Rhaman), 30 March 2015, the IHEU republished some of his final writings.\n\nFollowing the murder of Ananta Bijoy Das, 12 May 2016, the IHEU leaked parts of the letter Bijoy Das had recently received from Sweden rejecting his visa application, despite his having being invited to the country by Swedish PEN. The IHEU highlighted \"the failures of the Bangladeshi authorities to bring to justice the individuals and to break the networks behind this string of targeted killings\", and also criticised Sweden's rejection of his visa application, commenting, \"We call on all countries to recognise the legitimacy and sometimes the urgency and moral necessity of asylum claims made by humanists, atheists and secularists who are being persecuted for daring to express those views.\"\n\nFollowing the murder of Niladri Chattopadhyay Niloy (or Niloy Chatterjee, also known by his pen name Niloy Neel), 7 August 2015, the IHEU again attacked the government and authorities, saying, \"Apparent failure to pursue the most obvious lines of inquiry even when initial arrests are made, and media manipulation resulting in conflicting stories, further makes reportage difficult and police operations opaque.\"\n\nA coordinated attack against two separate publishing houses in Dhaka, 31 October 2016, killed the publisher Faisal Arefin Dipon and seriously injured the publisher Ahmedur Rashid Chowdhury. The IHEU later published an interview with Chowdhury about the attack and his escape to Norway.\n\nIn August 2015 the IHEU coordinated a joint open letter in English and Bangla by a coalition of \"Bloggers, free speech campaigners, humanist associations, religious and ex-Muslim groups\" calling on the president and prime minister of Bangladesh to \"ensure the safety and security of those individuals whose lives are threatened by Islamist extremists... instruct the police to find the killers, not to harass or blame the victims... disassociate yourself publicly from those who call for death penalties against non-religious Bangladeshis...\" and repeal the laws under which secular bloggers faced arrest and imprisonment.\n\nFollowing the murder of a student and secular activist Nazimuddin Samad, 6 April 2016, and then the murder of university lecturer Professor Rezaul Karim Siddique, 23 April 2016, the IHEU's president Andrew Copson said \"Unless the government [of Bangladesh] immediately begins to defend the right to speak and write freely, without adding the unprincipled and anti-secular qualifications that it keeps applying to freedom of expression, then very soon the only voices that will be heard will be those of murderous extremists.\"\n\nThe IHEU, along with the IHEU Member Organisation the Dutch Humanist Association, and Hague Peace Projects, organised a \"solidarity book fair\" in The Hague, 26 February 2016, to coincide with the annual Ekushey Book Fair in Dhaka.\n\nThe range of targets for these attacks began to broaden in the later part of 2015 and throughout 2016 to more often include minority religious individuals and foreigners, culminating in the July 2016 Dhaka attack in Gulshan Thana.\n\nIn January 2015, in part as a response to the Charlie Hebdo shooting, the IHEU alongside other transnational secular groups the European Humanist Federation and Atheist Alliance International and a two-hundred strong organisational coalition, founded the End Blasphemy Laws Campaign. End Blasphemy Laws is \"campaigning to repeal \"blasphemy\" and related laws worldwide.\"\n\nThe \"First World Conference on Untouchability\" was organised by the IHEU in London, June 2009. Anticipating the event, the BBC News quoted then-Executive Director of the IHEU Babu Gogineni as saying that legal reforms alone would not end caste discrimination: \"There are Dalit politicians in India, but nothing has changed. The answer is to educate Dalits and empower them.\" The event was preceded by questions in the UK Parliament and guests included Lord Desai and Lord Avebury from the UK House of Lords; Binod Pahadi, Member of the Constituent Assembly, Nepal; and Tina Ramirez, US Congressional Fellow on International Religious Freedom. The Second World Conference on Untouchability was held in Kathmandu, in April 2014.\n\nIn 2013 the IHEU criticised the US-based Appeal of Conscience Foundation for awarding their \"World Statesman Award\" to then-president of Indonesia Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono; IHEU argued that the award \"is a slap in the face to prisoners of conscience across the world. While Alexander Aan suffers in an Indonesian jail for posting his beliefs to Facebook, his jailer will be honored in New York as a champion of freedom of belief.\"\n\nIn 2014 the IHEU as part of a \"coalition of secular groups\" led a campaign around the hashtag \"#TwitterTheocracy\" to protest the social media website Twitter's implementation of tools blocking \"blasphemous\" tweets in Pakistan.\n\nThe IHEU makes a number of regular and occasional special awards.\n\nThe International Humanist Award recognises outstanding achievements and contributions to the progress and defence of Humanism.\n\n\nThe Distinguished Service to Humanism Award recognises the contributions of Humanist activists to International Humanism and to organised Humanism.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120050", "title": "International Society of Caricature Artists", "text": "International Society of Caricature Artists\n\nThe International Society of Caricature Artists (previously known as the National Caricaturist Network) is an international non-profit trade association founded in 1989. Its purpose is to promote the art of caricature, educate the public and the media about the art of caricature and to provide its members with helpful information about caricature as an art form as well as a profession. The ISCA currently has close to 500 members from around the world. Members receive the quarterly magazine, Exaggerated Features, which has articles about caricaturing, featured artists tips and stories as well as other useful information about caricature illustration. The ISCA annual convention is held each year in a different location. The conventions features a guest speaker, lectures, seminars, competitions, awards and the camaraderie of your peers in the art of caricature drawing.\n\nThe quarterly newsletter, Exaggerated Features, is sent to the members and an annual convention is held for socialization as well as education and competition.\n\nThe NCN was formed by Wallace \"Buddy\" Rose. Buddy created a forum for caricaturists by providing a quarterly newsletter and annual convention. The original goal was to create an organization that would seek out charitable and mutual benefits for united artists. It operated briefly as a booking agency until filing its application in compliance with article 5154a making it a trade union in 1994. In 1995 the new constitution was ratified in San Antonio, TX, the NCN was granted non-profit status, and the first election was held. In 2005, the NCN was changed into a non-profit, unincorporated association.\n\nThe association boasts some of the most recognizable names in the industry as members and friends of the NCN. Jack Davis, Sergio Aragones, Mort Drucker and Tom Richmond (illustrator) of Mad Magazine, Jan Op De Beeck, Maria Bolton, Sam Norkin, Rudy Cristiano, Bruce Blitz, C.F. Payne, Pancho Willmarth, Mike Peters, Steve Silver and Sebastian Krüger have all been keynote speakers and members. Many NCN members are accomplished as artists not only in caricaturing, but in other artistic fields as well.\n\nThe NCN officially changed its name to the International Society of Caricature Artists in 2009 to better reflect its international growth and presence. As of 2010 it has over 600 members worldwide. In recent years the International Society of Caricature Artists annual convention has featured guests of honor such as Sam Viviano, Dan Adel, Tom Richmond, Hermann Mejia, Mark Fredrickson and Bill Plympton. In 2011, ISCA will celebrate its 20th anniversary.\n\nEvery year at the ISCA Convention, all of the participants vote for the best caricature artist of the year, upon several other categories, and award the Golden Nosey:\n"}
{"id": "19202005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19202005", "title": "King Rother", "text": "King Rother\n\nKing Rother or König Rother is the earliest \"Spielmannsdichtung\" known to historians. It has many of the qualities of a fairy tale. Only one complete manuscript exists from the twelfth century (Heidelberg Cpg 390). The tale was popular into the fourteenth century. The name \"Rother\" may have a connection to a king of the Lombards, Rothari. There is a possibility, however, the name Rother may have come from the Norman king, Roger II of Sicily. \n\nThe epic story is notable for its combination of Byzantine and Germanic story elements. The poem has between 5200 and 5300 lines of verse and is from the period of Middle High German literature of adventure novels. The epic tale is written in a mixture of Low and High German. It seems to be for a Bavarian audience and was perhaps written by a Bavarian priest. The reason for this is because the writer mentions two noble Bavarian families, the Tengelingen and the Diessen.\n\nThe medieval German romance tale was popular among wandering minstrels of central Europe and was written in popular verse style. Some historians believe \"King Rother\" was written by an unknown educated cleric Rhenish poet probably between 1140 and 1170. Others suggest it was a Bavarian priest (c.1150); few believe any longer that it was a minstrel. The author refers to \"books\" as his source indicating there was a written source already, however he could have just used this to authenticate his writings.\n\nThe epic recounts King Rother's adventurous quest to the Middle East for a bride. The King on the advice of his nobles is concerned about the royal succession. He acts on their advice to seek the hand of the beautiful daughter of King Constantine of Constantinople. The problem with this however, is that all previous suitors lost their lives in the process. \n\nKing Rother plays it safe and sends twelve envoys to King Constantine for his daughter's hand in marriage. He sent twelve counts escorted by twelve knights in shiny armor with much treasure. They made an excellent impression, especially on the Queen. However, when King Rother's trusted count announces their purpose King Constantine refuses the hand of the royal princess. Not only that, he captures all of King Rother's men and throws them in jail. He also takes all the treasure. \n\nA year passes and King Rother is concerned about his men and treasure. He doesn't dare approach King Constantine with an army because surely he would then kill his men. Instead he comes up with a ruse and disguises himself as \"Dietrich\", a refugee who claims that he has been forced out of King Rother's land. Dietrich (King Rother) is generous with gifts and eventually obtains an army of five thousand men. The Queen of Constantinople is especially impressed with Dietrich. She gives her opinion to her husband King Constantine that King Rother must be a powerful king if he threw out a man of such qualities off his land. She felt that the royal princess should have been given to Rother. \n\nThe princess's curiosity got the best of her and she arranged a secret rendezdous with Dietrich. Dietrich then reveals to her he is really King Rother and desires her hand in marriage. They then planned secretly among themselves to get Rother's messengers released from jail. Dietrich promises on his life to King Constantine that the men will not leave the city. After the men are released Dietrich reveals to everyone that he is really King Rother by playing a certain melody on his harp. \n\nThen news comes that the evil King Ymelot is coming to attack King Constantine. Dietrich offers to help the king and the two armies camp on the outskirts of the city. At night Dietrich sneaks into the camp of the enemy and captures King Ymelot. He is turned over to King Constantine as a prisoner at his camp. There is much rejoicing of the defeat of the enemy. In the turmoil and excitement King Rother quickly returns to Constantinople and announces that King Constantine has been killed.\n\nThe ladies of Constantinople asks King Rother for help. He has them brought to his ship. In the process of embarking however, he only actually takes the royal princess on board. He leaves a message to the Queen his true identity and that the story of King Constantine's demise was only a ruse to get the princess. King Rother sails off with the princess. The Queen is quite happy at the outcome, however her husband King Constantine is furious. To make matters worse for King Constantine it turns out King Ymelot escapes from the prison.\n\nKing Rother returns to his country of Bari and finds the need to take inventory of his lands. He travels to the north part of his country to start the inventory. While he is gone an unscrupulous minstrel sent by King \nConstantine arrives in Bari. He uses a ploy and tricks the royal princess onto his ship and takes her back to Constantinople. When King Rother returns from his inventory he is enraged. He gathers together 30,000 men and sails off to Constantinople. \n\nOnce King Rother arrives near the city he hides in the woods with his men. The king and a few of his men secretly enter the city disguised as pilgrims. There they learn that the evil King Ymelot has not only captured King Constantine, but his daughter as well. The princess is to be married off to King Ymelot's son that evening. King Rother and his \"pilgrim\" men sneak into the banquet hall and hide under the table where the princess is. King Rother secretly slips her a silver ring. She is so excited about this that she gives it away to everyone that King Rother must be nearby. Since the jig was up, King Rother reveals himself at the mercy of God. King Rother is given a choice of how he would like to be executed. He persuades King Ymelot that he wishes to die in the woods (where his army is hidden out!). \n\nKing Rother insists that all 30 of the evil kings be present at his execution. They agree to this great opportunity to see him murdered. Meanwhile, back at the city the five thousand men that Dietrich (\"King Rother\") helped previously armed themselves to free him. While the hanging gallows were being constructed these men attacked and freed King Rother and his two companions. The companions were two giants, Asprian and Witold, that King Rother brought with him. King Rother then blew his horn which was a signal. Then all his army hidden in the woods came out and they, along with King Rother's special giants, slaughtered the evil kings.\n\nThe city of Constantinople and King Constantine are spared the onslaught. King Constantine brings out his princess and the other ladies of the city to meet King Rother. The Queen accused her husband of arrogance and gives the princess back to King Rother. The king then returns with his new bride to Bari, where she gives birth to a son, Pipin. Pipin later becomes the father to Charlemagne.\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "8343903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8343903", "title": "Letter and spirit of the law", "text": "Letter and spirit of the law\n\nThe letter of the law versus the spirit of the law is an idiomatic antithesis. When one obeys the letter of the law but not the spirit, one is obeying the literal interpretation of the words (the \"letter\") of the law, but not necessarily the \"intent\" of those who wrote the law. Conversely, when one obeys the spirit of the law but not the letter, one is doing what the authors of the law intended, though not necessarily adhering to the literal wording.\n\n\"Law\" originally referred to legislative statute, but in the idiom may refer to any kind of rule. Intentionally following the letter of the law but not the spirit may be accomplished through exploiting technicalities, loopholes, and ambiguous language.\n\nWilliam Shakespeare wrote numerous plays dealing with the letter versus spirit antithesis, almost always coming down on the side of \"spirit\", often forcing villains (who always sided with the letter) to make concessions and remedy.\nIn one of the best known examples, \"The Merchant of Venice\", he introduces the quibble as a plot device to save both the spirit and the letter of the law. The moneylender Shylock has made an agreement with Antonio that if he cannot repay a loan, he will have a pound of flesh from him. When the debt is not repaid in time Portia at first pleads for mercy in a famous speech: \"The quality of mercy is not strain'd, It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven Upon the place beneath. It is twice blest: It blesseth him that gives and him that takes.\" (IV,i,185). When Shylock refuses, she finally saves Antonio by pointing out that Shylock's agreement with him mentioned no blood, and therefore Shylock can have his pound of flesh only if he sheds no blood.\n\nInterpretations of the U.S. Constitution have historically divided on the \"Letter versus Spirit\" debate. For example, at the founding, the Federalist Party argued for a looser interpretation of the Constitution, granting Congress broad powers in keeping with the spirit of the broader purpose of some founders (notably including the Federalist founders' purposes). The Federalists would have represented the \"spirit\" aspect. In contrast, the Democratic-Republicans, who favored a limited federal government, argued for the strict interpretation of the Constitution, arguing that the federal government was granted only those powers enumerated in the Constitution, and nothing not explicitly stated; they represented the \"letter\" interpretation.\n\nModern Constitutional interpretation also divides on these lines. Currently, Living Constitution scholars advocate a \"spirit\"-esque interpretative strategy, although one grounded in a spirit that reflects broad powers. Originalist or Textualist scholars advocate a more \"letter\"-based approach, arguing that the Amendment process of the Constitution necessarily forecloses broader interpretations that can be accomplished by passing an amendment.\n\nThe Christian Bible references the letter and the spirit of the law in 2 Cor 3:6 NASB. Though it is not quoted directly, the principle is applied using the words \"spirit\" and \"letter\" in context with the legalistic view of the Hebrew Bible. This is the first recorded use of the phrase.\n\nIn the New Testament, Pharisees are seen as people who place the letter of the law above the spirit (Mark 2:3–28, 3:1–6). Thus, \"Pharisee\" has entered the language as a pejorative for one who does so; the Oxford English Dictionary defines \"Pharisee\" with one of the meanings as \"A person of the spirit or character commonly attributed to the Pharisees in the New Testament; a legalist or formalist\". Pharisees are also depicted as being lawless or corrupt (Matthew 23:38); the Greek word used in the verse means lawlessness, and the corresponding Hebrew word means fraud or injustice. However, the Hebrew word \"Perushim\" from which \"Pharisee\" is derived, actually means \"separatists\", referencing their focus on spiritual needs versus worldly pleasures.\n\nIn the Gospels, Jesus is often shown as being critical of Pharisees. He is more like the Essenes than the other Jewish groups of the time (Sadducees, Pharisees, Zealots); however, the Pharisees, like Jesus, believed in the resurrection of the dead, and in divine judgment. They advocated prayer, almsgiving and fasting as spiritual practices. The Pharisees were those who were trying to be faithful to the law given to them by God. Not all Pharisees, nor all Jews of that time, were legalistic. Though modern language has used the word Pharisee in the pejorative to describe someone who is legalistic and rigid, it is not an accurate description of all Pharisees. The argument over the \"Spirit of the Law\" vs. the \"Letter of the Law\" was part of early Jewish dialogue as well\n\nThe Parable of the Good Samaritan (Luke 10:25-37) is one of the New Testament texts to address this theme. The passage concerns a dialogue between Jesus and an \"expert in the law\" or \"lawyer\". As described in verse 25 (\"a certain lawyer stood up and tested Him saying, Teacher what must I do to inherit eternal life?,\" NKJV), the intent of the dialogue was to trap Jesus into making statements contrary to the law. Jesus responds by posing the question back to the lawyer, as already having knowledge of the law, (\"What is written in the law?\" verse 26) The lawyer quotes Deuteronomy 6:5 \"You shall love the LORD your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, and with all your mind and your neighbor as yourself.\", NKJV) and Leviticus 19:18. The question \"Who is my neighbor?\", that follows in verse 29, is described as being asked with the goal of self-justification.\n\nIt is then that Jesus responds with the story of a man beaten by robbers who is ignored by a Priest and a Levite, but then rescued and compassionately cared for by a Samaritan. Priests and Levites were Israelites whose qualifications and duties were very meticulously set forth in Mosaic law, (Leviticus 10, and Numbers 5-8) while Samaritans were descended from Israelites who had intermarried with their Babylonian captives and had been forced to establish a sect with an alternative interpretation of the Law. In the story, both the Priest and Levite follow their prescribed regulations dutifully, yet do not help the injured traveler, even crossing to the other side of the road to avoid possible rule violations. The Samaritan, whose very existence is based on a refutation of Jewish law, (specifically those post-Pentateuchal biblical books that identify Mount Moriah as the proper place of worship specified in Deuteronomy 12; the Samaritans considered only the Pentateuch cannon, and worshipped Yahweh in their temple on Mount Gerizim) goes above and beyond simply tending to the injured man. He takes him to an inn and gives money for the man's care, promises and then actually does return to inquire about the man, and pay any overage incurred. Jesus concludes by asking the lawyer which of the men was a \"neighbor\" to the beaten traveller, to which the reply was \"the one who showed compassion\". Then Jesus says to him \"go and do likewise\".\n\nAccording to Jeremiah, \"the qualities of the new covenant expounded upon the old are : a) It will not be broken; b) Its law will be written in the heart, not merely on tablets of stone; c) The knowledge of God will deem it no longer necessary to put it into written words of instruction.\" According to Luke (Lk 22, 20), and Paul, in the first epistle to the Corinthians (1 Cor 11, 25), this prophecy was fulfilled only through the work of Jesus Christ, who said \"This cup is the new covenant in my blood, which will be shed for you.\" Christ did not come to abolish the law but to fulfill it. His purpose was to encourage people to look beyond the \"letter of the law\" to the \"spirit of the law\"...the principles behind the commandments and the law's intention. Jesus quotes the book of Deuteronomy and Leviticus: \"All the Law can be summed up in this: to love God with all your heart, all your mind and all your soul, and to love your neighbor as yourself\" (paraphrased).\n\nGaming the system, also called \"rules lawyering\", is a pejorative phrase applied to someone who follows the letter of the law to obtain an outcome the speaker finds immoral or contrary to the spirit of the law. There are two reasons why this can be possible. A body of law may have been formulated in a way that permits ambiguity, or else there may be limitations in the law's scope or jurisdiction. For example, an offshore bank account can be used to reduce domestic tax obligations in some countries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20260016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20260016", "title": "List of largest monoliths", "text": "List of largest monoliths\n\nThis is a list of monoliths organized according to the size of the largest block of stone on the site. A monolith is a large stone which has been used to build a structure or monument, either alone or together with other stones. In this list at least one colossal stone over ten tons has been moved to create the structure or monument.\n\nIn most cases the ancient civilizations had little, if any, advanced technology that would help the moving of these monoliths. The most notable exception is that of the ancient Greeks and Romans who had cranes and treadwheels to help lift colossal stones (see List of ancient monoliths).\n\nDocumented in recent times, there is a list of efforts to move colossal stones that used technology that wasn't more advanced than the technology the ancient civilizations used.\n\nMost of these weights are based on estimates by published scholars; however, there have been numerous false estimates of many of these stones presented as facts. To help recognize exaggerations, an introductory description shows how to calculate the weight of colossal stones by calculating volume and density.\n\nIn the cases of the smaller monoliths it may be possible to weigh them. However, in most cases the monoliths were too large or they may have been part of an ancient structure so this method could not be used. The weight of a stone can be calculated by multiplying its volume and density. The density of most stones is between two and three tons per cubic meter. Basalt weighs about 2.8 to 3.0 tons per cubic meter; granite averages about 2.75 metric tons per cubic meter; limestone, 2.7 metric tons per cubic meter; sandstone or marble, 2.5 tons per cubic meter. Some softer stones may be lighter than 2 tons per cubic meter, like volcanic tuff, which weighs about 1.9 tons per cubic meter. Since the density of most of these stones fluctuates it is necessary to know the source for the stone and volume to obtain accurate measurements.\n\nThe discussion above is accurate as far as it goes, which is only to the first significant figure. To go any further one needs to be relatively sophisticated about surveying the monolith (including realistic and explicit assessment of the shapes of inaccessible portions of the monolith), then about calculating the volume (and volumetric errors, which vary crudely as the cube of linear uncertainties). Finally and crucially the rock density needs to be measured with appropriate precision. Identifying the rock type is not going to be sufficient as this table (from) illustrates:\n\nSimply identifying the monolith as being \"sandstone\" would allow a reasonable ± 15% uncertainty in the weight estimate.\nIn practice, one would measure the density of the monolith itself, and preferably document any variation in density within the monolith as they are made of natural materials, which have not been engineered for homogeneous parameters. Non-destructive methods of density measurements are available (e.g. electron back-scatter); alternatively the site may contain already-separated fragments of the monolith which can be used for laboratory measurements or on-site techniques. At the crudest, a weighing device and a bucket can obtain two significant figures for a density value.\n\nThis list includes only quarried, but not moved monoliths.\n\nThis list includes only quarried and moved monoliths.\n\n\nThese lists include only quarried, moved and lifted monoliths.\n\nMonoliths known or assumed to have been lifted by cranes into an upright position:\n\nMonoliths known or assumed to have been lifted clear off the ground by cranes into their position:\n\nThese are listed with the largest experiments first; for additional details of most experiments see related pages.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38195450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38195450", "title": "List of personal coats of arms of Presidents of the United States", "text": "List of personal coats of arms of Presidents of the United States\n\nMany United States presidents have borne a coat of arms; largely through inheritance, assumption, or grants from foreign heraldic authorities. One, Dwight Eisenhower, received his upon becoming a Knight of the Order of the Elephant of Denmark.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37669357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37669357", "title": "Marathon (media)", "text": "Marathon (media)\n\nA marathon is an event in which viewers or readers engage many hours-worth of media (film, television, books, YouTube videos etc.) in a condensed time period. This phrase represents a two-fold shift from binge-watch in that it incorporates other media (not just television) and it reduces the negative connotations associated with bingeing. In the 2014 book \"Media Marathoning: Immersions in Morality,\" Lisa Perks describes media marathoning as a “comprehensive and complimentary phrase” that “connotes a conjoined triumph of commitment and stamina. This phrase also captures viewers’ or readers’ engrossment, effort, and sense of accomplishment surrounding their media interaction.” Netflix Executive Todd Yellin is quoted as saying \"I don't like the term 'binge,' because it sounds almost pathological. 'Marathon' sounds more celebratory.\"\n\nMedia marathons can be organized around particular series, particular artists (e.g., Kurosawa or Hitchcock), or genres (e.g., horror films or chick flicks). Marathons can be user-created: one person decides to undertake a marathon solo or to organize a group marathon. Marathons may also be producer-created. Producer-created marathons are usually orchestrated by movie theaters, fan sites, or by cable channels that show already-run seasons, and, more recently, with original first-run programming through streaming services (such as Netflix's \"House of Cards\"). In television, a marathon is an extension of the concept of block programming.\n\nThe most common reasons for a network to run a marathon are:\n\nMarathons are attractive to genre movie fans, or families that like watching their favourite movies/TV shows in blocks at a time.\n\nOn July 1st, 1985, the first TV marathons were broadcast on Nickelodeon's Nick at Nite, presenting multiple episodes from \"Donna Reed\" and \"Route 66\". The idea by Alan Goodman and Fred Seibert was based on a similar concept that radio stations used, in which songs by one particular artist would be played for a prolonged period of time. While early marathons were rare and special, in modern time it is common for some networks to air a television series in three- to four-hour blocks, sometimes on a daily basis, mainly to appeal to and compete with subscription video on demand services (such as Hulu and Netflix) that have enabled voluntary \"Binge-watching\" of television series.\n\nAlmost all marathons primarily feature reruns of episodes already previously broadcast, although one may be used to lead into the premiere of a new episode. On the other hand, TBS used a marathon for the series premiere of \"Angie Tribeca\", broadcasting its entire first season of 10 episodes in a 25-hour marathon. In a few cases, especially with classic television, lost episodes, originally unseen television pilots, and other programming that may not have been seen during the show's original run may be included.\n\nMarathons have proven to be a viable way of rerunning reality television contests, which have otherwise been relatively difficult to rerun in traditional forms (e.g. daily \"strip\" syndication) because of the loss of the element of surprise. In December 2012, MTV announced that it would air a seven-day (168-hour) marathon of \"Jersey Shore\" before the series finale on December 20, 2012; this marked one of the longest marathons in television history.\n\nIt has been speculated in the early 2010s that marathon television viewing or binge watching, usually done on-demand by ordering a whole season of episodes of a television series on a service such as Netflix, is increasing in popularity. Infomercial blocks are generally not considered marathons beyond jocular mentions of such for networks such as CNBC which program heavy infomercial schedules on weekends or financially struggling stations which schedule them in high-profile time periods.\n\nPerks attributes the contemporary marathoning trend to three factors: advances in content-delivery technologies, active audience behaviors, and increasing complexity of storytelling.\n\nOn June 25, 2015, Comedy Central announced that it would stream a marathon online of every episode of \"The Daily Show\" hosted by Jon Stewart, known as \"Your Month of Zen\", running between June 26 and August 6, 2015, in honor of his retirement.\n\nResearchers have operationally defined media marathoning and binge-watching in different ways. Perks provides medium-specific definitions. Marathoners must have \"viewed a television season in a week or less, watched three or more films from the same series in a week or less, or read three or more books from the same series in a month or less.\" A Netflix-commissioned study defined \"binge-watching\" as viewing 2-6 episodes of the same show in one sitting. A 2014 TiVo survey defined binge-watching as watching 3 or more episodes of the same show in one day.\nIn extreme media marathons, such as the Simpsons Marathon (which lasted 86 hours and 37 minutes), the viewing time can last an exceptionally long time.\n\nSome of the longest running marathons are the two \"Twilight Zone\" marathons that air on Syfy in the United States on New Years Day and Independence Day; not counting early morning infomercials, each run for roughly three days straight. Holidays are a common time for marathons; for instance, on Thanksgiving in 2010, over 40 cable networks aired marathons of various lengths.\n\nFor a time, the longest continuous marathon in the history of television was a twelve-day marathon of \"The Simpsons\" that aired on FXX, which aired non-stop from August 21, 2014 until September 2, 2014. The marathon featured the first 552 episodes of the series (every single episode that had already been released at the time) aired chronologically, including \"The Simpsons Movie\", which FX Networks had already owned the rights to air. The first day of the marathon was the highest rated broadcast day in the history of the network so far, the ratings more than tripled those of regular prime time programming for FXX. Ratings during the first six nights of the marathon grew night after night, with the network ranking within the top 5 networks in basic cable each night. \n\nThe record was surpassed in 2015 by VH1 Classic, which broadcast a fifteen-day marathon of \"Saturday Night Live\"-related programming from January 28 to February 15, in honour of the program's 40th season (with its end date coinciding with the 40th anniversary special episode on NBC). The marathon primarily featured the series' most notable episodes in a reverse chronological order (beginning with season 39 and concluding with its October 11, 1975 series premiere), along with blocks focusing on specific celebrities (such as Eddie Murphy and Justin Timberlake), a block of the program's retrospective episodes on February 15, as well as Saturday-night airings of films featuring alumni of the series (such as \"Black Sheep\" and\" Wayne's World\").\n\nMovie marathons may be hosted in a private residence or in movie theaters. One guide for hosting them notes that viewers should be able to come and go as they please.\n\nSome marathons offer story-specific food choices, such as lembas and butterbeer.\nPopcorn is considered a staple for movie marathons. Some people prefer to provide multiple flavors of popcorn, while others prefer to provide plain popcorn and flavoring separate so that participants can flavor it themselves.\n\n"}
{"id": "953802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=953802", "title": "Mexican jumping bean", "text": "Mexican jumping bean\n\nMexican jumping beans (also known as \"\" in Spanish) are seed pods that have been inhabited by the larva of a small moth (\"Cydia deshaisiana\") and are native to Mexico. The \"bean\" is usually tan to brown in color. It \"jumps\" when heated because the larva spasms in an attempt to roll the seed to a cooler environment to avoid dehydration and consequent death. They are from the shrub \"Sebastiania pavoniana\", often also referred to as \"jumping bean\". However, they are not related to actual beans (legume plants), but rather to spurges. The beans are considered non-toxic but are not generally eaten.\n\nAfter the moth-laid egg on the plant hatches, the larva eats away the inside of the bean (until it becomes hollow) and attaches itself to the inside of the bean with silk-like thread. The larva may live for months inside the bean with varying periods of dormancy. If the larva has adequate conditions of moisture and temperature, it will live long enough to go into a pupal stage. In the spring, the moth forces itself out of the bean through a round \"trap door\", leaving behind the pupal casing. After its metamorphosis, the small, silver and gray-colored moth lives for no more than a few days.\n\nWhen the bean is abruptly warmed (by being held in the palm of the hand, for example) the larva twitches and spasms, pulling on the threads and causing the characteristic hop. Leaving the beans in a heated environment (such as direct sunlight) for an extended period of hours can easily kill them.\n\nThe beans become energetic when one holds them in the hand (out of the box) for a few minutes. The beans should also appear to be a very slight shade of green on the side. If one shakes a bean near one's ear and hears a rattle inside, the larva has either died or entered the pupal stage where its hardened shell makes a softer rattle.\n\nJumping beans are still available for sale in the United States. In the UK, they were a common novelty item in the 1950s.\n\nA plastic toy under this name is manufactured and sold in packages of around 5-10. It resembles a medicine capsule and has a metal ball inside. When the surface on which the capsule was laid is tilted, the ball rolls to the other end and makes the capsule twitch. A group of several of these \"beans\" shaken gently will move around unpredictably.\n\nBeans should be stored in a cool, dry place.\n\nBeans require periodic rehydration, mimicking the monsoon weather of their native Mexico. To rehydrate the beans, they need to be soaked, but not submerged, for about three hours in chlorine-free water once or twice a month.\n\nThe Mexican jumping bean comes from the mountains in the states of Sonora, Sinaloa, and Chihuahua. Álamos, Sonora, calls itself the \"Jumping Bean Capital of the World\". They can be found in an area approximately 30 by 100 miles where the \"Sebastiana pavoniana\" host tree grows. During the spring, moths emerge from last year's beans and deposit their eggs on the flower of the host tree.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53626", "title": "Moshe Safdie", "text": "Moshe Safdie\n\nMoshe Safdie, CC, FAIA (born July 14, 1938) is an Israeli-Canadian architect, urban designer, educator, theorist, and author. He is most identified with Habitat 67, which paved the way for his international career.\n\nSafdie was born in Haifa, to a Syrian Jewish family. His family moved to Montreal, Canada, in 1954. In 1959, Safdie married Nina Nusynowicz. The couple had two children, a daughter and a son. His son Oren Safdie is a playwright who has written several plays about architecture including \"Private Jokes, Public Places\". His daughter Taal is an architect in San Diego, a partner of the firm Safdie Rabines Architects.\n\nIn 1961, Safdie graduated from McGill University with a degree in architecture. In 1981, Safdie married Michal Ronnen, a photographer, with whom he has two daughters, Carmelle and Yasmin. Carmelle Safdie is an artist, and Yasmin Safdie is a social worker. Safdie is the uncle of Dov Charney, founder and former CEO of American Apparel.\n\nAfter apprenticing with Louis Kahn in Philadelphia, Safdie returned to Montreal to oversee the master plan for Expo 67. In 1964, he established his own firm to undertake Habitat 67, an adaptation of his McGill thesis. Habitat 67, which pioneered the design and implementation of three-dimensional, prefabricated units for living, was a central feature of Expo 67 and an important development in architectural history. He was awarded the 1967 Construction Man of the Year Award from the Engineering News Record and the Massey Medal for Architecture in Canada for Habitat 67.\nIn 1970, Safdie opened a branch office in Jerusalem. Among the projects he has designed in Jerusalem are Yad Vashem and the Alrov Mamilla Quarter, which includes the Mamilla Mall, David's Village luxury condominiums, and the 5-star Mamilla Hotel. In 1978, after teaching at McGill, Ben Gurion, and Yale universities, Safdie moved his main office to Boston and became director of the Urban Design Program at Harvard University's Graduate School of Design, until 1984. From 1984 to 1989, he was the Ian Woodner Professor of Architecture and Urban Design at Harvard. Since the early 1990s, Safdie, a citizen of Canada, Israel, and the United States, has focused on his architectural practice, Safdie Architects, which is based in Somerville, MA, and has branches in Toronto, Jerusalem, and Singapore.\n\nSafdie has designed six of Canada's principal public institutions—including the National Gallery of Canada in Ottawa, and Vancouver Library Square—as well as many other notable projects around the world, including the Salt Lake City Main Public Library; the Khalsa Heritage Centre in Punjab, India; the Marina Bay Sands integrated resort in Singapore; the United States Institute of Peace Headquarters in Washington, DC; the Kauffman Center for the Performing Arts in Kansas City, Missouri; and the Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art in Bentonville, Arkansas.\n\nMoshe Safdie's works are known for their dramatic curves, arrays of geometric patterns, use of windows, and key placement of open and green spaces. His writings and designs stress the need to create meaningful, vital, and inclusive spaces that enhance community, with special attention to the essence of a particular locale, geography, and culture.\n\nHe is a self-described modernist.\n\n\nIn November 2011, Punjab Chief Minister honoured Safdie at the inauguration ceremony of the Khalsa Heritage Museum. He said Safdie had studied Sikh religion for two years before designing the heritage museum. Safdie said he wanted the museum to look 300 years old and he thought he had succeeded in this objective.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5989370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5989370", "title": "National Archaeological Museum (Madrid)", "text": "National Archaeological Museum (Madrid)\n\nThe National Archaeological Museum () is a museum in Madrid, Spain. It is located on Serrano Street beside the Plaza de Colón (\"Columbus Square\"), sharing its building with the National Library.\n\nThe museum was founded in 1867 by a Royal Decree of Isabella II as a depository for numismatic, archaeological, ethnographical and decorative art collections of the Spanish monarchs.\n\nThe museum was originally located in the Embajadores district of Madrid. In 1895, it moved to a building designed specifically to house it, a neoclassical design by architect Francisco Jareño, built from 1866 to 1892. In 1968, renovation and extension works considerably increased its area. The museum closed for renovation in 2008 and reopened in April 2014. The remodelled museum concentrates on its core archaeological role, rather than decorative arts.\n\nIts collection is based on pieces from the Iberian Peninsula, from Prehistory to Early-Modern Age. However, it also has different collections coming from outside of Spain, especially from Ancient Greece, both from the metropolitan and, above all, from Magna Graecia, and, to a lesser extent, from Ancient Egypt, in addition to \"a small number of pieces\" from Near East.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3155417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3155417", "title": "Ndaxagua", "text": "Ndaxagua\n\nNdaxagua (also Ndaxagua cave, Ndaxagua natural tunnel), locally known in Spanish as El Puente Colosal (\"Colossal [Natural] Bridge\") is a natural cave with double entrance and archaeological site, located in the extreme northern end of the Coixtlahuaca Basin, central-southern Mexico. The cave was most likely used by Mesoamerican cultures such as the Zapotec and Mixtec as well.\n\nThe cave gets its name from a natural rock bridge formation above it. The cave functioned as a sacred entrance into the basin. Several Coixtlahuaca codices refer to this cave. In codex depictions, the cave was believed to be the place where Quetzalcoatl descended from heaven.\n\nThere are several pre-Columbian inscriptions at the Ndaxagua site. These murals in the cave depict anthropomorphic figures with protruding beak-like mask. Another mural shows a deer ready to be sacrificed by a figure holding a blades. Another sacrificial mural is present as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "57383474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57383474", "title": "Norse Mythology (Neil Gaiman)", "text": "Norse Mythology (Neil Gaiman)\n\nNorse Mythology is a 2017 book by Neil Gaiman. The book is Gaiman's retelling of several stories from Norse mythology. These stories include the theft of Thor's hammer, the binding of Fenrir and other tales about the Aesir.\n\nThe book received positive reviews in \"The New Yorker,\" \"Washington Post\" and \"The Times\". \"Kirkus Reviews\" called it \"Superb. Just the thing for the literate fantasy lover and the student of comparative religion and mythology alike.\"\n"}
{"id": "2525535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2525535", "title": "O'Rahilly's historical model", "text": "O'Rahilly's historical model\n\nO'Rahilly's historical model is a theory of the history of prehistoric Ireland in the Iron Age put forward by the linguist T. F. O'Rahilly in 1946. It was based on his study of the influences on the Irish language and a critical analysis of Irish mythology.\n\nHe distinguished four separate waves of Celtic invaders:\n\n\nO'Rahilly's work was and remains influential but much of his linguistic work has since been refuted by noted authors such as Kenneth H. Jackson and John T. Koch and is not generally the accepted model. Irish archaeologists have fairly consistently failed to support the theory, as archaeological evidence of these waves of settlement is lacking. \n\nAccording to O'Rahilly's model, between 700 and 500 BC, iron-wielding, Celtic-speaking people first settled in Great Britain and Ireland from the continent. They spoke a Brittonic language and called themselves \"Priteni\" or \"Pritani\". The impact they had upon the native inhabitants can be inferred from the fact that Greek geographers were referring to these islands as the “Pretanic Islands” () by at least 300 BC. It is also possible that the very name “Britain” is derived from Priteni. \n\nHowever, there is no hard evidence for a Pretanic invasion as such. It is much more likely that their settlement of these islands was a gradual one, spread over several centuries.\n\nIn Britain, these Priteni were absorbed by later invaders and lost their cultural identity, except in the far north where they were known to the Romans as the \"Picti\" \"painted people\", on account of their practice of decorating their bodies with tattoos (a practice which by then had died out among other Celtic nations).\n\nIn Ireland, too, the Priteni were largely absorbed by later settlers; but a few pockets of them managed to retain a measure of cultural, if not political, independence well into the Christian era. By then they were identified as \"Cruithne\", a Goidelic adaptation of the Brittonic word Priteni. Both words are derived from a root meaning “to shape” or “create.” Celtic tribes generally gave themselves names which were the pluralised forms of names they gave to their deities (in this case “the Creator”). Among the Cruthin tribes that survived into the Christian era the most prominent were the Dál nAraidi in Ulster, and the \"Loíges\" and \"Fothairt\" in Leinster. The name of the second of these tribes, modernized as \"Laois\", has been revived and given to County Laois, Leinster (formerly \"Queen's County\").\n\nAround 500 BC the Cruthin lost their dominant position in Irish society when the country was invaded by a second wave of P-Celtic speakers. These were the Builg or Érainn. The former name (originally Bolgi) identifies them as Belgae, a Celtic people mentioned by Julius Caesar in \"Commentarii de Bello Gallico\".\n\nTheir other name, originally Iverni, is probably the origin of several of the early Classical names for Ireland: the Greek Ιερνη; Ιουερνια and possibly also the Latin \"Hibernia\". In Irish mythology, the name Fir Bolg obviously refers to the same people. It appears that groups of these Belgae colonised Britain and Ireland in the late sixth or early fifth century. In both islands they absorbed and subjugated most of the previous inhabitants.\n\nAmong the more prominent Ernean tribes were the following:\n\n\nAccording to O'Rahilly, about two centuries after the Bolgic invasion, Ireland was subjected to another invasion of Brittonic speakers. Three names can be distinguished for them, but whether they were one tribe with three different names or three closely allied but separate tribes we cannot say. These names, as given in later written records, are Laigin, Domnainn and Gálioin. According to their own traditions, they came to Ireland from Armorica (Brittany). They landed in the southeast of the country and took the southeastern quarter from the Érainn. The modern name of this province, Leinster (Irish: Laighin), preserves the memory of this Laginian conquest, although in ancient times it was much smaller than the modern province. Before the Goidelic invasion, the River Liffey marked the boundary between Ulster and Leinster. The Domnainn were clearly a branch of the Dumnonii, a Celtic people identified by Classical authors as inhabiting Dumnonia (the English counties of Cornwall and Devon, to which they gave their name). Another branch of the Dumnonii settled in Scotland, where they founded Dumbarton and established the kingdom later known as Strathclyde. Presumably these settlements occurred at around the same time as the Laginian invasion of Ireland. It is even possible that the Dumnonii of Scotland were originally Irish Domnainn.\n\nThe Laginian invasion made little impact in Ulster or Munster, where Ernean tribes continued to be the dominant force. But the same cannot be said for Connacht, the westernmost of the four provinces. Sometime in the third century (all these dates, it should be pointed out, are highly conjectural) they crossed the River Shannon and subjugated the Ernean tribes of Connacht. The decisive battle, the \"Cath Maige Tuired\", was fought in County Sligo in a place called Mag Tuired. There a Laginian king (possibly known as Cairbre) overthrew the Érainn and drove them out of Connacht. According to Irish records the defeated Érainn sought refuge in many of the islands around Ireland. The fortresses of Dún Aonghasa and Dún Conor on the Aran Islands, and Dún Balor on Tory Island, are thought to have been built by them.\n\nO'Rahilly claims that it was probably as a result of the Laginian conquests that Ireland first came to be divided into four provinces. The Érainn continued to rule in Ulster and Munster, while the Lagin and their allies became the dominant force in Leinster and Connacht. Traditionally these four provinces met at the exact centre of the country, which was marked by the Hill of Uisneach (between Mullingar and Athlone in County Westmeath), a name which may mean \"vertex\" or \"angular place\". The district immediately surrounding this hill was originally called \"Medion\" \"middle\", and is the origin of the name of County Meath. Julius Caesar informs us that the druids of Gaul regularly assembled at a hallowed spot in the centre of the country to celebrate their rituals (\"De Bello Gallico\" 6.13). Irish tradition records that a similar assembly, the Mórdáil Uisnig, periodically took place at the Hill of Uisneach on Beltane, the May-day festival.\n\nThe fourth and final Celtic invasion of Ireland was the Goidelic or Gaelic invasion. Unlike the previous invaders, the Goidels spoke a Q-Celtic language, which was the forerunner of Modern Irish, Scottish Gaelic and Manx. The P-Celtic dialects which were spoken in the country at the time of their arrival (and which they referred to as Iarnbélre, “language of the Érainn”) eventually became extinct. The Goidels originated in Gallia Aquitania in southwestern Gaul. Around 100 BC two groups of these Celts emigrated to Ireland:\n\nThe Connachta were named after Conn of the Hundred Battles, a mythical ancestor who was later euhemerized and given a place in Irish history. The Connachta were led by a man known to later history as Túathal Techtmar. They landed at the mouth of the Boyne and pushed inland to Tara, the seat of the local Ernean king, which they sacked. They soon carved out for themselves a new province between Ulster and Leinster, running from the mouth of the Liffey to the mouth of the Boyne and inland as far as the Shannon. In time, this fifth province came to be known as “Meath,” presumably for no other reason than that it contained the Hill of Uisnech.\n\nThe other group were known as the Eóganachta. Their leader is known to history as Mogh (or Mug) Nuadat. The Eoganachta landed at a place called \"Inber Scéne\", usually identified with Kenmare River in the southwest of the country. Unlike the Connachta, they did not carve out a new province for themselves. Instead, they slowly but gradually rose in power, eventually becoming the dominant force in Munster. The names Eóganachta and Mug Nuadat, which were probably adopted after their arrival, suggest that initially there were friendly relations between them and the Érainn, as both names are derived from the titles of Ernean deities. \nEarly in their history, the Connachta subjugated the Laginian tribes of Leinster and reduced them to a state of vassalage. The Laginian leaders were allowed to retain possession of their territory, but a heavy tribute was imposed upon them. Known as the Bórama (or Bórú), it continued to be exacted at irregular intervals until the 8th century of the common era. According to one tradition, it was Tuathal Techtmar himself who first imposed this tribute on the Lagin.\n\nAs their name suggests, the Connachta did not stop when they reached the Shannon. At an indeterminable point in history, some of them crossed the Shannon and conquered the western province, bestowing their name on it in the process. By the late 4th century of the common era Ireland was divided politically into five provinces or \"overkingdoms\":\n\n\nAs can be seen, most of the country was in the hands of the Gael. Only Ulster remained independent, but this was not to last.\n\n"}
{"id": "43908596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43908596", "title": "Oliver Krüger", "text": "Oliver Krüger\n\nOliver Krüger (born 1973) is a German professor in Religious studies at the University of Fribourg (Switzerland). In his Ph.D. thesis on \"Virtuality and Immortality\" he analyzed the religious and philosophical context of posthumanism and transhumanism. 2004 the thesis was awarded by the German Association for the History of Religion. After his Ph.D. he worked on the significance of the Internet for the Wicca movement in a research project at the University of Heidelberg. From 2005-2007 Krüger served as visiting lecturer and visiting research fellow at the Center for the Study of Religion at Princeton University while exploring the alternative funeral culture in the United States, especially the Funeral Consumer's Alliance. In 2007 he was appointed to the chair for Religious Studies (Religionswissenschaft) at Fribourg University, from 2011-2014 he was president of the Swiss Association for the Study of Religion. In 2012/13 he was invited as fellow to the International Centre for Advanced Studies Morphomata at the University of Cologne (Germany). His research is focused mainly on religion and media / religion and science.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11729020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11729020", "title": "Orestes and Electra", "text": "Orestes and Electra\n\nOrestes and Electra has been the subject and title of several works of art, including two different sculptural groups in the collections of the Naples National Archaeological Museum.\n\nOne is a 2.1m high Hellenistic sculpture, once thought to depict Orestes and Electra. It shows a heavily draped adult female on the right, looking down on and apparently beckoning a partially nude younger male or child, who looks up at her.\n\nA marble copy was produced between 1685 and 1688 for the Palace of Versailles, copied from a cast of the original entrusted to Benoît Massou then Martin Carlier and to Michel Monier. It was initially interpreted as\"Peace between the Greeks and the Roman\" but was later interpreted as relating the episode in which the young Papirius, known as Praetextatus, having been permitted to attend a sitting of the Roman Senate with his father, thwarts his mother's curiosity by humorously telling her that the Senate had been debating whether it were better for the State that a man have two wives or a woman have two husbands. It was placed in the Ballroom Grove in 1738, moved to the Tuileries Garden during the French Revolution and in the 19th century replaced \"Poetus and Arria on the Green Carpet\" in the Main Perspective.\n\nThe other depicts a young nude male and a young clothed female, of the same age and height, leaning on each other. This is now thought to be Orestes and Electra.\n"}
{"id": "1780344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1780344", "title": "Phanagoria", "text": "Phanagoria\n\nPhanagoria () was the largest ancient Greek city on the Taman peninsula, spread over two plateaus along the eastern shore of the Cimmerian Bosporus.\nThe city was a large emporium for all the traffic between the coast of the Maeotian marshes and the countries on the southern side of the Caucasus. It was the eastern capital of the Bosporan Kingdom, with Panticapaeum being the western capital. Strabo described it as a noteworthy city which was renowned for its trade. Shortly a Catholic Metropolitan Archdiocese while a medieval Genoese colony under the name Matrega, it remains a Latin Catholic titular see.\nToday the site is located at a short distance to the west of Sennoy in Krasnodar Krai, Russia. Another ancient Greek city, Hermonassa, lies to the west, on the shoreline of modern Taman.\n\nPhanagoria was founded ca. 543 BC by the Teian colonists who had to flee Asia Minor in consequence of their conflict with Cyrus the Great. The city took its name after one of these colonists, Phanagoras. \"The unusual nature of the Taman peninsula near Phanagoria, with its ravines, crevices, hills, and low cones of active volcanoes, must have impressed the ancient colonists even more than it impresses us today\", Yulia Ustinova has observed.\n\nIn the 5th century BC, the town thrived on the trade with the Scythians and Sindi. Located on an island in the ancient archipelago of Corocondamitis, between the Black Sea and the Palus Maeotis, Phanagoria covered an area of of which one third has been submerged by the sea. In the early 4th century BC the burgeoning Bosporan Kingdom subjugated much of Sindica, including the independent polis of Phanagoria. The town's importance increased with the decline of the old capital, Panticapaeum, situated on the opposite shore of the Bosporus. By the first centuries AD, Phanagoria had emerged as the main centre of the kingdom.\n\nDuring the Mithridatic Wars, the town allied with the Roman Republic and withstood a siege by the army of Pharnaces II of Pontus. It was at Phanagoria that the insurrection broke out against Mithridates VI of Pontus, shortly before his death; and his sons, who held the citadel, were obliged to surrender to the insurgents. An inscription found during excavations testifies that Queen Dynamis honored Augustus as \"the emperor, Caesar, son of a god, the god Augustus, the overseer of every land and sea\". The loyalty to Rome allowed Phanagoria to maintain a dominant position in the region until the 4th century, when it was sacked and destroyed by the invading Huns.\n\nBy the 7th century, the town had recovered from a century of barbarian invasions. It served as the capital of Old Great Bulgaria between 632 and 665 under Kubrat and Batbayan.\nAfterwards Phanagoria became (at least nominally) a Byzantine dependency. A Khazar tudun was nonetheless present in the town and \"de facto\" control probably rested in Khazar hands until the defeat of Georgius Tzul in 1016. In 704, the deposed Byzantine emperor Justinian II settled in Phanagoria (then governed by the Khazar tudun Balgatzin) with his wife Theodora, a sister of the Khazar Khagan Busir Glavan, before returning to Constantinople by way of Bulgaria.\n\nIn the 10th century, the town seems to have faced an invasion, supposedly by the Rus. After that, Phanagoria could not compete in significance with neighboring Tmutarakan.\nIn the late Middle Ages the town of Matrega was built on its ruins; the site was part of a network of Genoese possessions along the northern Black Sea coast. During the 15th century, it was the center of de Ghisolfi dominions. Henceforth there has been no permanent settlement on the site.\n\nThe Genoese colony was canonically established on 1349.02.21 as Metropolitan Archdiocese of Matriga. It was suppressed around 1400 AD. \n\nThe diocese was nominally restored as a Latin Catholic titular bishopric in 1928 under the name Matriga, which was changed in 1929 already to Matrega.\nIt is vacant, having had the following incumbents, all of the lowest (episcopal) rank :\n\nThe location of Phanagoria was determined in the 18th century, when marble statue bases with dedications to Aphrodite were discovered there. Hecataeus and Strabo mention a local sanctuary of Aphrodite as the largest in the Pontic region. Archaeological exploration of the site started in 1822, when \"soldiers dug into a large barrow, making rich discoveries of gold and silver objects, many unique, which they divided up between themselves\".\n\nApart from the ancient city itself, archaeologists have been interested in a vast necropolis, which spreads on three sides around Phanagoria. There are thousands of burials, many with cypress or marble sarcophagi — an indication of the well-being of the ancient Phanagorians. Excavations conducted in the 19th century were for the most part amateurish; as many as twelve kurgans would be razed each season. Some of the most intriguing finds were unearthed in the 1860s at the Bolshaya Bliznitsa tumulus, classed by Michael Rostovtzeff as a feminine necropolis with three vaults.\n\nOne of the royal kurgans near Phanagoria \"has a stone stairway leading down to a rectangular passageway, the entrance to the burial chamber (3.70 × 3.75 × 4.70 m). These two areas are covered by an arch showing remains of painted decoration. The wall frescos imitate encrusted marble. On either side of the entrance to the tomb long stone boxes contain four horse burials along with rich grave gifts; saddlery and harnesses of gold and gilded bronze.\" Vladimir Blavatsky resumed excavations of Phanagoria in 1936. Among the recent finds is an inscription indicating that a synagogue existed in Phanagoria as early as 51 AD. Underwater investigation of the site has revealed multiple fragments of architectural structures.\nVladimir Putin took part in scuba diving at the archaeological site of Phanagoria in the Taman Bay on 11 August 2011.\n\nPhanagoria Island in Antarctica is named after Phanagoria.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1007621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1007621", "title": "Pirate utopia", "text": "Pirate utopia\n\nPirate utopias were defined by anarchist writer Peter Lamborn Wilson, who coined the term in his 1995 book \"Pirate Utopias: Moorish Corsairs & European Renegadoes\" as secret islands once used for supply purposes by pirates. Wilson's concept is largely based on speculation, although he admits to adding a bit of fantasy to the idea. In Wilson's view, these pirate enclaves were early forms of autonomous proto-anarchist societies in that they operated beyond the reach of governments and embraced unrestricted freedom.\n\nLocated on the Barbary Coast (Salé, Algiers and Tunis), these bases were havens for renegade Muslim pirates from the 16th to the 18th century. The pirates, dubbed \"Barbary Corsairs\", ravaged European shipping operations and enslaved many thousands of captives. However, thousands of Europeans also converted to Islam, forming the \"Renegados\" and joining the pirate holy war. Wilson writes that these men and women were not only apostates and traitors, as they were considered in their homelands, but their voluntary betrayal of Christendom can also be thought of as a praxis of social resistance. Wilson focuses on the Pirate Republic of Salé, in 17th century Morocco, which may have had its own lingua franca. Like some other pirate states, it even used to pass treaties from time to time with some European countries, agreeing not to attack their fleets. Wilson/Bey's idea of Temporary Autonomous Zones developed from his historical review of pirate utopias. When describing them Wilson says \"We've certainly had to use our imagination more than a \"real\" historian would allow, erecting a lot of suppositions on a shaky framework of generalizations, and adding a touch of fantasy (and what piratologist has ever been able to resist fantasy?). I can only say that I've satisfied my own curiosity at least to this extent: That something like a Renegado culture could have existed; that all the ingredients for it were present, and contiguous, and synchronic.\"\n\nLibertatia (also known as Libertalia) was a possibly fictional anarchist colony founded in the late 17th century in Madagascar by pirates under the leadership of Captain James Misson. Whether or not Libertatia actually existed is disputed. It is described in the book \"A General History of the Pyrates\" by Captain Charles Johnson, an otherwise unknown individual who may have been a pseudonym of Daniel Defoe. Much of the book is a mixture of fact and fiction, and it is possible the account of Libertatia is entirely fabricated.\n\nAccording to Johnson's description, Libertatia lasted for about 25 years. The precise location is not known, however, most sources say it stretched from the Bay of Antongil to Mananjary, including Île Sainte Marie and Foulpointe. Thomas Tew, Misson, and an Italian Dominican priest named Caraccioli were involved in founding it.\n\n\"Cities of the Red Night\", a novel by American author William S. Burroughs, revolves around a group of radical pirates who seek the freedom to live under the articles set out by Captain James Misson.\n\nThe attempted establishment of a Republic of Pirates utopia (free from either British or Spanish rule) is a significant plot element in the Ubisoft video game \"\".\n\nIn the movie \"\" the main characters gather at \"Shipwreck Cove\", a city built out of wrecked ships and constructed platforms. \n\nLibertalia is also a central plot element and setting in the video game \"\". However, in this interpretation, Libertalia was founded by the pirate Henry Avery and others including Tew, Anne Bonny and Edward England.\n\nThe 2015 video game \"Fallout 4\" features an area in the game called Libertalia. The area is a series of off-shore platforms (made of various debris) that has become home to a large gang of raiders.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4214394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4214394", "title": "Practical joke", "text": "Practical joke\n\nA practical joke, or prank, is a mischievous trick played on someone, generally causing the victim to experience embarrassment, perplexity, confusion, or discomfort. A person who performs a practical joke is called a \"practical joker\". Other terms for practical jokes include gag, jape, or shenanigan.\n\nPractical jokes differ from confidence tricks or hoaxes in that the victim finds out, or is let in on the joke, rather than being talked into handing over money or other valuables. Practical jokes are generally lighthearted and without lasting impact; they aim to make the victim feel humbled or foolish, but not victimized or humiliated. Thus most practical jokes are affectionate gestures of humour and designed to encourage laughter. However, practical jokes performed with cruelty can constitute bullying, whose intent is to harass or exclude rather than reinforce social bonds through ritual humbling.\n\nSome countries in Western culture traditionally emphasize the carrying out of practical jokes on April Fools' Day.\n\nA practical joke is \"practical\" because it consists of someone doing something physical, in contrast to a verbal or written joke. For example, the joker who is setting up and conducting the practical joke might hang a bucket of water above a doorway and rig the bucket using pulleys so when the door opens the bucket dumps the water. The joker would then wait for the victim to walk through the doorway and be drenched by the bucket of water. Objects can also be used in practical jokes, like fake vomit, chewing gum bugs, exploding cigars, stink bombs, costumes and whoopee cushions.\n\nPractical jokes often occur inside offices, usually to surprise co-workers. Covering the computer accessories with Jell-O, wrapping the desk with Christmas paper or aluminium foil or filling it with balloons are just some examples of office pranks. Practical jokes are also common occurrences during sleepovers, whereby teens will play pranks on their friends as they come into the home, enter a room or even as they sleep.\n\nAmerican humorist H. Allen Smith wrote a 320-page book in 1953 called \"The Compleat Practical Joker\" () that contains numerous examples of practical jokes. The book became a best seller not only in the United States but also in Japan. Moira Marsh has written an entire volume about practical jokes. One of her findings is that in the USA they are more often done by males than females.\n\nA practical joke recalled as his favorite by the playwright Charles MacArthur, concerns the American painter and bohemian character Waldo Peirce. While living in Paris in the 1920s, Peirce \"made a gift of a very big turtle to the woman who was the concierge of his building\". The woman doted on the turtle and lavished care on it. A few days later Peirce substituted a somewhat larger turtle for the original one. This continued for some time, with larger and larger turtles being surreptitiously introduced into the woman's apartment. The concierge was beside herself with happiness and displayed her miraculous turtle to the entire neighborhood. Peirce then began to sneak in and replace the turtle with smaller and smaller ones, to her bewildered distress. This was the storyline behind \"Esio Trot\", by Roald Dahl.\n\nModern and successful pranks often take advantage of the modernization of tools and techniques. In Canada, engineering students have a reputation for annual pranks; at the University of British Columbia these usually involve leaving a Volkswagen Beetle in an unexpected location (such as suspended from the Golden Gate Bridge and the Lions Gate Bridge). A similar prank was undertaken by engineering students at Cambridge University, England, where an Austin 7 car was put on top of the Senate House building. Pranks can also adapt to the political context of the era. Students at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) are particularly known for their \"hacks\".\n\nNot unlike the Stone Louse of Germany, in the American West the jackalope has become an institutionalized practical joke perennially perpetrated by ruralites (as a class) on tourists, most of whom have never heard of the decades-old myth.\n\nThe 2003 TV movie \"Windy City Heat\", consists of an elaborate practical joke on the film's star, Perry Caravallo, who is led to believe that he is starring in a faux action film, \"Windy City Heat\", where the filming which is ostensibly for the film's DVD extras actually documents the long chain of pranks and jokes performed at Caravallo's expense.\n"}
{"id": "23663488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23663488", "title": "Quaerendo", "text": "Quaerendo\n\nQuaerendo is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal devoted to manuscripts and printed books in Europe, with a focus on the Low Countries. It was established in 1971 and covers codicology, palaeography, and various aspects of the history of books from around 1500 until the present. In addition to full articles, each issue contains a section dedicated to the announcement of new discoveries, publications, and recent events. The editor-in-chief is Lisa Kuitert (University of Amsterdam).\n"}
{"id": "3208508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3208508", "title": "Saang", "text": "Saang\n\nSaang (), also known as Swang (meaning \"initiation\") or Svang (), is a popular folk dance–theatre form in Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Malwa region of Madhya Pradesh. Swang incorporates suitable theatrics and mimicry (or \"nakal\") accompanied by song and dialogue. It is dialogue-oriented rather than movement-oriented. Religious stories and folk tales are enacted by a group of ten or twelve persons in an open area or an open-air theatre surrounded by the audience.Swang as an art of imitation means Rang-Bharna, Nakal-Karna.\n\nSwang can be considered as the most ancient folk theatre form of India. Nautanki, Saang, Tamasha originated from the Swang traditions. Old Swang traditions are: \"EK MARDANA EK JANANA MANCH PAR ADE THE RAI\" means one male and one female performers start the story. \"EK SAARANGI EK DHOLAKIA SAATH MEIN ADE THE RAI\"\nmeans one saangi player and one dholak player joins the performance. This Swang/Saang performance was active at the time of Sant Kabir and Guru Nanak.\n\nTradition credits Kishan Lal Bhaat for laying the foundation of the present style of Swang about two hundred years ago. During Mughal period and specifically at the time of Aurangzeb women were strictly banned from public performances. Since women did not participate in the dance-drama form, men have traditionally enacted their roles.Later on different performers changed the style according to the socio-political situations.\n\nStage is similar to operatic performance.The stage may consist of a clear circular open area, or at the most, a wooden platform about three and a half metre in length. There are no elaborate stage arrangements similar to modern dramatic performances. There are no backdrops, curtains or green-rooms. Typically, there are no microphones or loudspeakers either. An hour or so before the show, the musicians of the orchestra begin to sing religious or other songs connected with the play in order to create the proper atmosphere for the play. The 'Guru' then appears and the artistes touch his feet to evoke his blessings. The play opens with a song ('bhait' or offering) in praise of Bhawani, the Goddess of Knowledge:\n\n\"Aa re bhawani baas kar mere ghat ke parde khol\"\n\"Rasna par basa karo maai shudh shabd mukh bol\"\n\nAfter Bhawani there are Chamolas, Kafias, Savias the main ingredients of performance. Googa Dhamoda a dance form starts at the beginning. With a brief introduction about the play, the performance starts. It consists mainly of mimicry, from which the name of the theater form derives (\"swaang\" means disguise or impersonation). Also featured prominently are long question and answer sessions between the actors. Much of the dialogue is improvised and the actors must be able to trade quotations, puns, proverbs and songs at the drop of a hat. There is much singing and dancing and there is always a clown character called the \"makhaulia\" (jester). Swang theatre is traditionally restricted to men, who also play the female roles, the latter often involving elaborate make-up and costumes. But female troupes are not altogether unknown.\n\nA single presentation of \"swaang\" may continue for up to five or six hours. There is much song and music, especially the famous Haryanvi style of singing known as \"Raagani\".\n\nSwang themes draw variously from themes of morality, folk tales, lives of inspiring personalities, stories from Indian mythology and in recent times, more current themes like health and hygiene, literacy, AIDS awareness and women's empowerment. In temple based religious theatre, Indian epics and Puranas are the major source material for characters, while the community-based secular theatre is of lighter variety. Several themes may be mixed together - mythological love, popular history, and religious themes, all with overtones of secular values. All dramas typically end with the victory of good over evil.\n\nPopular mythological themes include Raja Vikramaditya, Ranveer- Padmavat, Jaani Chor, Prahlad Bhagat, Gopi Chand, Bharthari, Harishchander, Raja Bhoj, Kichak Badh, Draupadi Chir Haran, Jaani Chor, Pingla Bharthri and other tales from old literature. Also popular are Punjabi romances like Pooran Bhagat, Heer Ranjha, etc. Historical and semi-historical themes include Raja Rissalu, Amar Singh Rathor, Sarwar Neer, Jaswant Singh, Ramdevji, etc. Other popular tales include romances like Sorath, Nihalde, Padmavat, etc.\n\nIn Haryana the most celebrated name is that of Dip Chand Bahman of village Khanda, Sonipat. He was popularly known as Shakespeare or Kalidas of Haryana. He polished the style of Ali Bux and gave a new color to this folk art. The Saang of that time had two categories: (i) Kirtan Style and (ii) Nautanki Style. Dip Chand's style of performance incorporated elements from music, dance, pantomime, versification, and ballad recitation.\nDuring the First World War, when Dip Chand's capacity for improvisation and adaptation was at its peak, the British Government made him a Rai Sahib and granted him other favours. His catchy song-compositions with martial tunes attracted large recruits to the army. \n\nThe origin of swang is traced to Kishan Lal Bhaat, who some two hundred years ago is said to have laid the foundation of the present style of folk theatre. Another view gives credit for this to Kavi Shankar Dass, a poet artiste, who belonged to Meerut. Another notable early pioneer was Ali Bux of Rewari, who successfully staged plays titled Fasanai, Azad and Padmawat. For music and song, these early Swaang drew on khayals and chambolas. The stage was most elementary, the actors performed from a central place among the audience. The light was provided by mashals (Roman torches).\n\nThere are five major Parnalis/traditions/gharanas prevalent during this period.\nPt Surya Bhanu Shastri his disciple Dr Satish Kashyap and Dr Sandhya Sharma though belongs to Pt Lakhmi Chand gharana and staged major Swangs/saangs like Padmavat, Kichak Draupadi, Phool Singh Nautani and famous Jaani Chor but had performed in every major Gharanas breaking the orthodox Parnali/Gharana divided on the base of Brahmin/ Non- Brahmin, Caste and region based.\n\nHardeva polished his Chambola style and made some changes to Haryanvi ragni (folk song). Bjae Nai, a disciple of Hardeva, mixed both the styles of folk music. Pt. Nathu Ram, another well known Swaangi coached a number of talented pupils, which included Maan Singh, Bulli, Dina Lohar and Ram Singh. Anoop Lather a well known theatre person introduced Swang in Kurukshetra University and organised Swang Youth festivals and first time produced Swang Jaani Chor in proscenium with Satish Kashyap in 1999. Manish Joshi Bismil who is a noted theatre director of India belongs to Hisar is also known for developing Swang in Haryana. In year 2012 his recent production Lakhmiprem was a milestone work on Pandit Lakhmichand.Manish Joshi is recipient of Ustaad Bismillah Khan Yuva Puraskar by Sangeet Natak Akademi.He is working on Pandit Mangeram's biography.\n\nPt. Ramkishan Vyas of Narnaund (Hissar), formerly known as 'Vyas ji', is a celebrity in the field of Haryanvi Saangs and Raagnis. He invented various concepts in presenting the raagnis to the public e.g. Soni and others. In addition, he has been deputed as Counseller and Consultants by Rohtak Aakashvani & Kurukshetra Aakashvani. Haryana Government has also declared that the dominant universities of Haryana (Kurukshetra University, Maharishi Dayanand University, etc.) would include his autobiography and raagnis in their curriculum.\n\nDr. Satish Kashyap and Dr. Sandhya Sharma in the able guidance of Pandit Suraj Bhan Shastri, a disciple of Pt. Lakhmi Chand had done revolutionary changes in Swang performance. Revival of Swang traditions is utmost need to oxygen to the dying art. Dr Satish Kashyap, an internationally acclaimed Swang artist, is leading the only surviving Mandali of Swang. He performs both in Operatic as well as prosenium stage. They performed at National and International levels viz. National School of Drama (NSD), New Delhi and in SPIC MACAY International Convention at IIT, Mumbai. They were selected in prestigious \"BHARANGAM\" organised by National School of Drama, New Delhi. CCS Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar in leadership of Dr. Satish Kashyap, also set up a unit for the promotion and preservation of Swang and produced and staged best productions, viz, Jaani Chor, Raja Vikramaditya, Phool Singh- Nautanki etc.\n\nDr. Sandhya Sharma is the sole female performer of Swang and has written and produced two new Swangs with her stage partner and mentor Dr Satish Kashyap. They are based on Mahabharata. New Swangs are GOPI-UDDAV and VEER- BARBRIK.\n\nTowards the end of the 19th century, all-women \"Swaang\" troupes performed in western Uttar Pradesh and the adjoining \"Khaaddar\" area of Haryana. All parts in these troupes were played by women. Sardari of Kalayat (Jind), Natni of Gangaru, and Bali of Indri (Karnal) were some of the leaders of such troupes. In 1998, The Government of India has honored this renowned poet by the award from Rohtak Aakashwani for his incredible support to the rise of Haryanvi Lok Sahitya.His younger son, Satyanarayan Shastri is also continuing their task to rise the Haryanvi Lok Sahitya by his writing. Satyanarayan Shastri is a renowned singer of 'Ragnis' at aakashvani since 1983.\nPandit Lakhmi Chand of Jatti Kalan (Sonipat) is known as \"Surya Kavi\" (Sun Poet) in Haryanvi Raagnis. important Swang staged by him included Nal Damyanti, Meera Bai, Satyavan Savitri, Poorjan, Seth Tara Chand, Puran Bhagat and Shashi Lakarhara. Pt. Tuleram, son of Pt Lakhmi Chand continued the tradition of performance and after him his son Vishnu is still performing in the remote villages of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan.\n\n"}
{"id": "33419356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33419356", "title": "Science &amp; Spirit", "text": "Science &amp; Spirit\n\nScience & Spirit is a discontinued American bimonthly magazine that covered scientific stories with an eye toward their spiritual implications. \n\nIt was launched by the John Templeton Foundation in 1989 as a newsletter, converted to a glossy magazine in 1998, then repositioned for a general readership in 2001. The founding editor was Kevin Sharper. The magazine was published by Science & Spirit Resources, Inc. five times a year during the initial period. In 2003, it was purchased by Heldref Publications, though the John Templeton Foundation continued to provide editorial support. The publication was renamed \"Search\" in 2008 before being discontinued in 2009.\n\nScience and religion scholar Karl Giberson took over as editor-in-chief of the magazine in 2003 and sought to raise the publication's profile and increase its subscriber base. During his tenure, \"Science & Spirit\" was nominated for Utne Independent Press Awards in 2003 2006, and 2007, and its contributors featured notable scholars such as John Horgan, Edward Larson, Alan Lightman Michael Ruse, and E. O. Wilson. However, the John Templeton Foundation chose to discontinue funding the publication after 2006, and Heldref Publications ultimately stopped publishing the magazine in 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "49004775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49004775", "title": "Tahir Dizdari", "text": "Tahir Dizdari\n\nTahir Dizdari (1900–1972) was an Albanian orientalist, folklorist, and scholar. He was the main orientalist in Albania, and contributed in identifying and studying oriental words borrowed from the Albanian language.\n\nDizdari the son of Nasuf Dizdari (1858-1940), a local folklorist and translator, and was born on 15 November 1900, in Shkodër, today's Albania, back then still part of the Ottoman Empire. Dizdari family traces their origin from a military who had settled in Shkodër from İznik of the Province of Bursa, today's Turkey. Dizdari finished his early education in the Turkish language school of his town, following later the \"Ruzdiye\" (mmiddle school) which he couldn't finish due to the outbreak of the First Balkan War. He registered later in the Saverian College of Shkodër, finishing it in 1918. He focused on the Oriental languages and on mastering the French language. At a young age, he started working in the Albanian public administration, holding various positions in Vlorë, Durrës, and Pukë. One of his contributions during this time was the draft-statute \"Ligja e katundarive dhe e komunave\" (Law of villages and municipalities), being a main contributor of a work that targeted the formation, structuration, and operation of the local government, first of its kind within the newly created Albanian state of that time. In 1935, he published the manual \"Udhëhjekës për konferenca\" (Guide to conferences). He was also involved in huge projects, i.e. the general registration of the population in 1930.\n\nAs a monarchist and supporter of King Zog I of Albania, Dizdari participated in the armed resistance against the Italian invasion of Albania of April 1939. Due to his known pro-monarchy stance and his involvement in the skirmishes against the Italians at Gomsiqe near Pukë, he would be arrested and interned by the Italians.\n<br>With the German occupation of Albania, he resumed his research on orientalism and writing in the local Albanian press. During 1944, he wrote a separate column \"Pyes vetveten\" (I ask myself) in the \"Bashkimi i kombit\" (Nation's unity) newspaper, which would continue later in the \"Bashkimi\" (Unity) during 1945-1946, using the pen-name \"Hijekakeqi\". During 1944, still in the newspaper \"Bashkimi i kombit\", he contributed to the linguistics section \"Fjalë iranishte në gjuhën shqipe\" (Iranian words in the Albanian language) using the pen-name \"Bishtiqindija\". He also published two toponymy studies: \"Kraja\" in the \"Bashkimi i kombit\" and \"Katër Balët\" (Four Balas) in the \"Bota e re\" (New world) magazine. He wrote also satirical articles, and religion-oriented articles in the \"Kultura islame\" (Islamic culture) and \"Bleta\" (Honeybee) magazines.\n<br>In May 1945 he was affiliated with the \"Bashkimi\" newspaper of the Democratic Front, and in October 1945 acquired membership in the Albanian League of Writers and Artists. During 1946-1951, he focused on studying the Albanian dictionary and folklore, submitting a work of around 800 pages to the Institute of Folklore.\n\nIn February 1951, he got arrested and interrogated for several months due to an alleged connection with the so-called bombing of the Soviet embassy in Tirana, but was set free since there was no incriminating evidence against him. Nevertheless, this affected his position within the Communist society, and his relations with the scholar environment. This also marked probably the most critical moment in his life, his family would be expelled from Tirana. In 1952, he opened a small bookstore which served him for lodging as well. Due to his knowledge of oriental languages, parts of the \"oriental words dictionary\" (which would be his most notable work later) were published in the \"Buletinin USHT (seria shkencave shoqërore)\" (Bulletin of the University of Tirana: social sciences series) of early '60s, and later the \"Studime filologjike\" (Philological studies) during 1964-1966. He also took part and gave speeches in three conferences on albanology, held in Tirana in 1962, 1968, and 1969. The Institute of Linguistics (), despite the previous political obstacles, decided to engage him as \"senior scientific cooperator\" (), affiliated with its lexicology section, from 1965 till 9 May 1972, when Dizdari died.\n\nHis main work out of his active period 1941-1971 are the \"Orientalizmat në gjuhën shqipe\" (Orientalisms within the Albanian language), and \"Fjalë të pambledhura nga fjalorët e deritanishëm\" (Words not collected in the previous dictionaries), the last one being an important work on the Albanian language dictionary enrichment with \"old\" or obsolete words not collected until then. Both were handed over to the Institute of Linguistics and were published later.\n<br>The \"Fjalor i orientalizmave në gjuhën shqipe\" (Dictionary of orientalisms within the Albanian language), a volumiunous work of around 1200 pages, was published in 2005.\n\nBase on a proposal by the Academy of Sciences, the President of Albania Sali Berisha awarded him the order \"Naim Frashëri\" of 1-st Class in 1995, with the dedication \"For valuable contribution in the development of Albanological studies\".\n\nNotes\nReferences\n"}
{"id": "9488102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9488102", "title": "The New York Genealogical and Biographical Record", "text": "The New York Genealogical and Biographical Record\n\nThe New York Genealogical and Biographical Record is a scholarly publication devoted to the interests of American genealogy and biography. It is published on a quarterly basis by The New York Genealogical and Biographical Society.\n\nSince its inception in 1870, \"The New York Genealogical and Biographical Record\" has been a source for genealogists, historians and biographers researching New Yorkers and their families. It is issued in the months of January, April, July and October. The content of the journal has always centered on compiled genealogies of families residing in New York State as well as adjacent areas; genealogical source material such as church registers, will and deed abstracts, newspaper extracts, muster rolls, census records, and family records such as those found in Bibles; and book reviews, library accession lists, and proceedings of the NYG&B Society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41815078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41815078", "title": "Transparency report", "text": "Transparency report\n\nA transparency report is a statement issued on a regular basis by a company, disclosing a variety of statistics related to requests for user data, records, or content. Transparency reports generally disclose how frequently and under what authority governments have requested or demanded data or records over a certain period of time. This form of corporate transparency allows the public to discern what private information governments have gained access to through search warrants and court subpoenas, among other methods. Some transparency reports describe how often, as a result of government action or under copyright provisions, content was removed. Disclosing a transparency report also helps people to know about the appropriate scope and authority of content regulation for online discussions.\nGoogle first launched a transparency report in 2010, with Twitter following in 2012. Additional companies began releasing transparency reports as during the aftermath of the global surveillance disclosures beginning in 2013, and the number of companies issuing them has increased rapidly ever since. Transparency reports are issued today by a variety of technology and communications companies, including Google, Microsoft, Verizon, AT&T, Twitter, Apple, Dropbox, Facebook, Yahoo and CloudFlare. Several companies and advocacy groups have lobbied the U.S. government to allow the number of secret data requests (requests which include a gag orders - including National Security Letters) to be described within ranges in the report. \n\nGoogle's latest \"(10th)\" transparency report indicates that the government demands for data are increasing in recent years.This report shows demands from government in the first six months of 2014, and the firm said that it includes demands made under the US Foreign Intelligence, Surveillance Act (FISA) and through National Security Letters (NSLs).\n\"FISA and NSL demands have increased by 15 percent during the six months, according to the firm, and by 150 percent over the 10 reports and the five year reporting period. That's globally. In the US the figures for the same period are 19 percent and 250 percent.\"\nGoogle legal director \"Richard Salgado\" accepted that the government has to fight crime and deal with threats, but the opposition of data demands need to be considered as well.\n\"This increase in government demands comes against a backdrop of ongoing revelations about government surveillance programs. Despite these revelations, we have seen some countries expand their surveillance authorities in an attempt to reach service providers outside their borders,\" he said.\n\"Governments have a legitimate and important role in fighting crime and investigating national security threats. To maintain public confidence in both government and technology, we need legislative reform that ensures surveillance powers are transparent, reasonably scoped by law, and subject to independent oversight.\"\nThe report shows that the US makes the most demands for Google users' data, and Google said that it made 12,539 requests that affected some 22,000 accounts. It added that it provided data in 84 percent of cases.\n\nIn the UK it said there were 1,535 requests covering 1,991 users or accounts, and Google provided data for 72 percent of the requests.\n\nThe latest Yahoo transparency report was released on 25 September 2014. The report states that 30,511 users were affected by 18,594 government data requests.,whereas 57,324 accounts were affected by 29,470 government requests. However, both of these figures do not include those secret requests sent by the FISA court. During the last six month from \"July 1, 2013, to December 31, 2013\", it received between 0 and 1998 FISA requests for user data, affecting up to 54,997 users (including national security letters). Comparing to the first sixth month from \"January 1, 2013 to June 30, 2013\", 32,997 accounts was affected. As we can see from the figures, although the total number of data request drop, the number of data request approved from the FISA court have increased significantly.\nOverall, 41 percent of accounts affected by government data requests came from requests made by the U.S. government.\n\nTransparency reports may be published for a variety of purposes. One purpose could be to clarify how much information governments ask for, how such requests are evaluated, and how the receiving entity chose to respond. This information may lead consumers to the conclusion that the report's publisher is more trustworthy.\n\nHowever, there is some debate about what transparency reports really reveal. Some critics argue that mere quantities of requests may mislead consumers, since most entities have little control over the number of requests they receive, the breadth of the requests they receive, or even the number of requests they ultimately comply with.\n\nCompanies such as Google, Microsoft, Yahoo, Facebook, and Twitter all release transparency reports, all of which list the type and number of government data requests each company receives. these reports include exact numbers and shed a bright light on government activity. The U.S. government will not, however, permit companies to report exact numbers for national security requests or the number of requests that came under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance (FISA) Section 702, Patriot Act Section 215, or national security letters.\nInstead, they have to aggregate the numbers or provide a range. And that’s even if the government permits a company to publish that data. Google may publish national security letter information, but not FISA information. Facebook may publish FISA information, but it must lump such data in with NSL information. As a result, consumers cannot see the true figure for total government data requests.\nCritics of this policy, such as the Electronic Frontier Foundation, argue that there is no clear national security justification for blocking entities from releasing this information.\n\nIn June 2013, Google asked the Department of Justice for permission to disclose details about the number of FISA requests it receives. As a result, Microsoft, Yahoo, and Facebook followed suit immediately. However, the Department of Justice refused those requests, and they only provide the companies with a heavily redacted version of their arguments.\nHere's what Google legal director Richard Salgado had to say about FISA requests:\n\"We want to go even further. We believe it’s your right to know what kinds of requests and how many each government is making of us and other companies. However, the U.S. Department of Justice contends that U.S. law does not allow us to share information about some national security requests that we might receive. Specifically, the U.S. government argues that we cannot share information about the requests we receive (if any) under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. But you deserve to know.\"\n\n\"“Our ability to speak has been restricted by laws that prohibit and even criminalize a service provider like us from disclosing the exact number of national security letters ('NSLs') and Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act ('FISA') court orders received - even if that number is zero.”\"avian network's veep for legal Ben Lee has blogged.\n\nOn 7 October 2014, Twitter announce that there will be a lawsuit against the United States government for violating its First Amendment right to freedom of speech. The Transparency Report which would reveal how many national security letters (NSLs) and Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) orders Twitter receives. They provided a draft of the transparency report to the Department of Justice and discussed it for months. Twitter was still unable to get the permission for allowing them to publish even a redacted version of the report from the government.\nThe response form FBI for its stance is that the information Twitter wants to publish \"is classified and cannot be publicly released\", they also said according to the framework provided on 27 January 2014, Twitter is only permitted to qualify its description of the total number of accounts affected by all national security legal process it has received but it cannot quantify that description with specific detail that goes well beyond what is allowed under the 27th Jan 2014 framework and that discloses properly classified information.\"\n\nThe United States government announced on 30 August 2013 that a transparency report which is in its own form will be released. Director of National Intelligence James Clapper announced the change on his office's Tumblr blog. He said that the decision will come naturally after President Barack Obama ordered the declassification of as much intelligence information as possible. Total numbers for national security letters, Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) business records requests, FISA one register/trap and trace requests will be stated in the transparency report. Beside that, the report will also include the number of targets being investigated in each of these requests. The number will reflect the 12 months prior to the date published.\nThe inspiration of the report comes from the recent surveillance program leaks from former NSA-contractor Edward Snowden, according to an anonymous source speaking with the \"Washington Post\".\nGoogle, Twitter,and Facebook all release their own forms of transparency report, however they are not allowed to release this sort of information in their report.\n\n\n"}
