{"id": "1234283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1234283", "title": "1907 Romanian Peasants' revolt", "text": "1907 Romanian Peasants' revolt\n\nThe 1907 Romanian Peasants' revolt took place between 21 February and 5 April 1907. It started in northern Moldavia and, after three weeks in which it was localized in that area, it quickly spread, reaching Wallachia, including as far as Oltenia. The main cause was discontent of the peasants about the inequity of land ownership, which was in the hands of just a few large landowners.\n\nFollowing the fall of the Conservative Party government on March 12, the new Liberal government crushed the revolt violently with the help of the Romanian Army, killing thousands of peasants in the process.\n\nThe 1864 land reforms gave the peasants full ownership rights for part of the land for which they previously had only the right to use. However, the peasants remained even after these reforms dependent on the local landlords. Additionally, the peasant population was rising fast, leading to rapidly shrinking properties: from an average family property of 3.42 hectares in 1896 down to 3.27 ha in 1905 and 3.06 ha in 1907. The state was also a big landholder, however, its policies for selling the land often did not favor poorer peasants, who were in the greatest need for land.\n\nNeeding to supplement their shrinking properties, the peasants were forced to use land owned by the landlords, who owned large estates. As population grew, the peasants became more and more desperate for land, leading to rapidly rising rents. At that time, peasants formed up to 80% of the Romanian population and about 60% of them owned small crops, or no land at all, while the large landowners owned more than half of the arable land.\n\nThe National Liberal Party's policy to encourage peasant cooperatives was not successful, as many landlords feared the organization of the peasants, preferring to lease to individual peasants rather than to cooperatives. According to Ion Lahovari, the Conservative Minister of Domains, a landlord could drive out a peasant refusing to pay his rent, but noted that for driving out a cooperative of 500 peasants, a regiment would be needed and the government may refuse to put it at the landlord's disposal. As such, by the end of 1907, there were only 103 village cooperatives having a membership of 11,118 leasing 37,344 hectares, most of it leased from the state.\n\nBy 1900, most large landowners preferred to live in the cities and did not want to bother with the administration of their properties. Therefore, the peasants no longer leased directly from the landowner, but sub-leased it from an intermediary lessor (\"arendaș\"). The fall of the price of grain on the world markets meant that the lessors would demand ever greater rents in order to make ends meet.\n\nThe blame for the revolt was initially put on Jewish intermediaries, given that many of the lessors were of Jewish background, especially in Northern Moldavia. The revolt quickly spread southward, losing some of its anti-Semitic character and becoming basically a protest against the existing system of land tenure.\n\nThe revolt began on the lands administered by one lessor, Mochi Fischer, in the village of Flămânzi due to Fischer's refusal to renew the leases of the local peasants. The Austrian-Jewish family of Fischer used to lease about 75% of the arable land in three Romanian counties in Moldavia (the so-called \"Fischerland\").\n\nThe peasants, fearing that they would remain without work and, more importantly, without food, began to act violently. Scared, Fischer fled to a friend in Cernăuți, leaving the peasants without signed contracts. The fear of remaining out of work, combined with the activities of alleged Austro-Hungarian instigators, led the peasants to revolt. The revolt soon spread across most of Moldavia, with several landowners' properties destroyed and many lessors killed or wounded. The Conservative government (\"Partidul Conservator\") couldn't handle the situation and resigned, and the Liberals (\"Partidul Național-Liberal\") of Dimitrie Sturdza assumed power.\n\nOn 18 March a state of emergency was declared, and then a general mobilization, with 140,000 soldiers being recruited by 29 March. The Romanian Army began firing on the peasants; thousands of peasants perished and more than 10,000 were arrested.\n\nThe exact number of peasant deaths is unknown, and even the course of events are not clear, because the government, to hide the size of the massacre, ordered the destruction of all documents relating to the uprising.\n\nHistorian Markus Bauer mentions a greatly underestimated official figure of 419 deaths, while an unofficial figure, circulated by the press and widely accepted, of about 10,000 peasants killed, has never been proven to be true. The same figure of 419 deaths was mentioned by Ion I. C. Brătianu in the Romanian Parliament. The data available to the Prime Minister Dimitrie Sturdza indicated 421 deaths between 28 March and 5 April 1907. Likewise, about 112 were injured and 1,751 detained. Newspapers patronized by Constantin Mille, \"Adevărul\" and \"Dimineața\", gave a figure of 12,000-13,000 victims. In a conversation with the British ambassador in Bucharest, King Carol I mentioned a figure of \"several thousand\".\n\nAccording to figures given by Austrian diplomats, between 3,000-5,000 peasants were killed, while the French Embassy mentioned a death toll ranging between 10,000-20,000. Historians put the figures between 3,000-18,000, the most common being 11,000 victims.\n\nOnly ten members of the Army were killed in the revolt: an officer, Lt. I. Nițulescu, killed in Stănești, two sergeants and seven soldiers. Four others were injured: an officer, Capt. Grigore Mareș, also wounded in Stănești, two sergeants and a soldier. Seventy-five soldiers of the Fifth Dorobanți Regiment (\"Vlașca\") appeared before military courts and charged with revolt; 61 were sentenced to hard labor for life and 14 to five years in prison.\n\nMany intellectuals, among them Nicolae Iorga, Alexandru Vlahuță, Ion L. Caragiale, Constantin Stere, Constantin Dobrogeanu-Gherea and Radu Rosetti, protested against the violent intervention of the forces of repression. Others emphasized that the government had a special responsibility for the fate of the peasantry and the country in general, and therefore an urgent solution to the \"peasant question\" was required.\n\nThe Liberal government began a campaign to repress any kind of political organization of the peasants. Many teachers, priests and other countryside intellectuals were arrested, as were pro-universal suffrage activists Vasile M. Kogălniceanu and Alexandru Vălescu, who were regarded as instigators of the revolt.\n\nThe government also began enacting a series of reforms in order to provide some relief to the peasantry, but without expropriating the landlords. The December 23, 1907 law on agricultural contracts limited the degree to which the peasants could be exploited by the landlords and lessors: it set maximum prices for land leases, it set minimum wages for peasants working on landlords' estates and it established \"Casa Rurală\", a bank which was supposed to help peasants to buy lots of 5 hectares from landlords. A law passed on April 12, 1908 banned anyone leasing more than 4000 hectares at one time.\n\nThe events continued to resonate in the Romanian conscience, and were the subject of one of the best novels of the interwar period, \"Răscoala\" (\"The Revolt\"), by Liviu Rebreanu, published in 1932. A film based on the book, Răscoala, was produced in 1965. The revolt also formed the subject of a painting by Octav Băncilă, and of a monumental statue which can still be seen in Bucharest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27232292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27232292", "title": "2010 Hong Kong electoral reform", "text": "2010 Hong Kong electoral reform\n\nThe 2010 Hong Kong electoral reform was the series of events began in 2009 and finalised in 2010 under the Consultation Document on the Methods for Selecting the Chief executive and for Forming the LegCo in 2012, a document published on 18 November 2009 by the Government of Hong Kong, ostensibly to broaden the scope of political participation and increase the democratic elements in the 2012 elections in line with the Hong Kong Basic Law.\n\nThe proposals included modifying the arrangements for electing the Chief executive of Hong Kong and the composition and ways of electing the city's legislature in 2012, in line with the December 2007 decision of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress (NPCSC). While the pan-democracy camp attacked the conservative proposals as a rehash of those already rejected in 2005, the government said its proposals were \"more democratic\", and could not exceed what was authorised by Beijing.\n\nThe consultations took place in the backdrop of talks about a \"de facto\" referendum, and the Hong Kong by-election, 2010 precipitated by the resignation of five pan-democrat legislators in January 2010. Official attempts to secure the passage of the proposals resulted in a media campaign by the city's leaders and an unprecedented televised debate between the Chief executive and a leader of an opposition party; it also resulted in renewing of dialogue between Beijing and the Pan-democrats which ceased after the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989.\n\nFollowing the Central Government's acceptance at the eleventh hour of a proposal by the Democratic Party concerning the new District Council functional constituency seats which they had up to that point opposed as being in contravention of the Basic Law, the consultation package was accepted by LegCo on 25 June, with 46 votes. The pan-democrat camp was split when the Democratic Party voted with the government amidst severe recriminations and protests of betrayal; the League of Social Democrats and the Civic Party remained opposed to the package but were unable to block the passage. The Chief executive assented on 29 June 2010, and China's parliament ratified the decision on 28 August.\n\nIn March 2007, the pan-democrats published their own blueprint, the 'mainstream transitional proposal' drawn up with the support of 21 legislators in accordance with principles of equal and universal suffrage and which they said reflected public opinion. They proposed that 400 elected district councillors would join the existing 800-member Election Committee, making a total of 1,200-members; Nominations threshold would be set at 50 EC members, and the candidate for CE would be elected in a one-person, one-vote election. Ultimately, the nomination committee would be scrapped. For the legislature, they propose returning half Legco's seats by direct election in single-seat constituencies, with the other half determined by proportional representation.\n\nDuring his campaign in the CE election in 2007, Donald Tsang promised that he would \"endeavour to forge consensus within the community within his new term, so that universal suffrage could be implemented as soon as possible.\" A Green Paper on Constitutional Development was published on 11 July to open discussion on the options, roadmap and timetable for implementing universal suffrage for the CE and the LegCo. According to the consultation document, the CE submitted a report to the NPCSC on 12 December 2007, that \"reflect[ed] faithfully the views of different sectors of the community on the issue of universal suffrage received during the public consultation period.\" The government document asserted that \"more than half of the public supported the implementation of universal suffrage for the CE and the LegCo ('dual universal suffrage') in 2012, and at the same time, implementing universal suffrage for the CE first by no later than 2017 would stand a better chance of being accepted by the majority in our community.\"\n\nOn 29 December 2007, the NPCSC resolved that: that the election of the fifth Chief executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region in the year 2017 may be implemented by the method of universal suffrage; that after the Chief executive is selected by universal suffrage, the election of the Legislative Council of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region may be implemented by the method of electing all the members by universal suffrage... Appropriate amendments conforming to the principle of gradual and orderly progress may be made to the specific method for selecting the fourth Chief executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region in the year 2012 and the specific method for forming the fifth term Legislative Council of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region in the year 2012 in accordance with the provisions of Articles 45 and 68, and those of Article 7 of Annex I and Article III of Annex II to the Basic Law\n\nThe decision stipulated that:\nThe bills on the amendments to the method for selecting the Chief executive and the proposed amendments to such bills shall be introduced by the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region to the Legislative Council; such amendments must be made with the endorsement of a two-thirds majority of all the members\nof the Legislative Council and the consent of the Chief executive\n\nThe NPCSC decision became the backbone of the document published by the government on 18 November 2009, entitled the \"Consultation Document on the Methods for Selecting the Chief executive and for Forming the LegCo in 2012\". The government said proposals broadened the scope of political participation and increase substantially the democratic elements in the 2012 elections. The consultation ended three months later with 47,200 written submissions being received.\n\nThe government notes that, despite calls from some quarters to discuss universal suffrage models, it has only been authorised by the NPCSC to determine the methods for selecting the CE and for forming the LegCo in 2012; how the two electoral methods should be amended for attaining universal suffrage is outside of its scope. It said that \"there is still ample room for making amendments to the electoral method to enhance its democratic elements\" in 2012, and proposed the following for LegCo elections:\n\nFor Chief executive elections, it proposes:\n\nThe \"Asia Times\" remarked that both proposals for LegCo and for the Chief executive \"hedged in with so many ifs and buts that there is no guarantee of Hong Kong getting anything at all... \"\n\nHowever, the level of interest in, and the knowledge of, the proposals was low: A poll conducted by the University of Hong Kong on 18 November of 1,001 people found 68 per cent knew 'little' of what the consultation was all about; a similar survey three months later remained at 70 per cent. The pollster said the resignation plan by five legislators, without sufficient focus on the details of the reforms, shifted attention away from the plan. Albert Ho said the end game needed to be in the sights, because 2012 was only a transition. He dismissed the proposal as \"meaningless\" because it failed to address the pan-democrats' real concerns. On a three-day trip to Beijing in late December, Donald Tsang was asked by President Hu Jintao to handle Hong Kong's constitutional reforms 'in an appropriate manner'. He was told by Premier Wen Jiabao that Hong Kong 'should start to study major macro-issues relating to holistic developments and plan for the future. It should better resolve some deep-rooted conflicts in Hong Kong, make good uses of Hong Kong's advantages, sharpen Hong Kong's competitiveness and pay more attention to social services and people's livelihood.'\n\nPan-democrats all agreed that the proposals do not go far enough, but were divided on what action is needed. Significantly, the Democratic Party opted to engage with Beijing to negotiate, parting company with the Civic Party and the LSD. In January 2010, five legislators from the Civic Party and the LSD resigned their seats as part of the 'Five Constituencies Resignation' concept for meaningful political reform; Albert Chan, Alan Leong, Tanya Chan, \"Longhair\" Leung Kwok-hung and Wong Yuk-man resigned from LegCo. Their resignations were submitted on 26 January 2010, with effect on 29 January 2010. Beijing warned the five legislator not to resign. Chief executive Donald Tsang said the \"so-called referendum\" had no legal grounding. The resignations precipitated a by-election throughout the territory which takes place on 16 May 2010.\n\nIn a surprise move, the government unveiled the revised package before they were scheduled. Key proposals, such as increasing the Election Committee for the chief executive election from 800 members to 1,200 in 2012 and increasing the number of Legislative Council members from 60 to 70, remain unchanged. It was proposed that the five additional Legco seats for the district council constituency will be elected by proportional representation instead of block voting as suggested by pan-democrats. Announcing the plan, Chief Secretary Henry Tang said the government tried to find the \"maximum latitude to enhance the democratic elements of the two elections in 2012.\" He urged legislators to accept this 'golden opportunity' because there was no room for further concessions. The proposals will be put before Legco on 23 June, before the summer recess.\n\nQiao Xiaoyang, head of the NPC's Hong Kong Basic Law committee, said the reason the Standing Committee ruled that Hong Kong \"may\" and not \"must\" have universal suffrage for the 2017 chief executive and 2020 Legislative Council elections was because any change in electoral methods required approval by local lawmakers. He added that passage of the reform package would \"create excellent conditions for universal suffrage in the future.\"\n\nAt a seminar organised by a coalition of Beijing-friendly groups, deputy director of the central government's liaison office, Li Gang said that lawmakers should act bravely and responsibly to reach consensus, and create favourable conditions for realising the universal suffrage timetable. Li said: \"It is impossible for a winner to take all on the issue of constitutional development. There can only be win-win. If one wants to win alone, the result may be lose-lose.\"\n\nAfter the government unveiled the procedures for the LegCo vote, deputy secretary general of the National People's Congress Standing Committee, Qiao Xiaoyang, defined 'universal suffrage' as:\nPan-democrats said Qiao's statement reinforced their concerns, as it offered only the right to vote rather than to stand and nominate others in an election, and paved the way for keeping functional constituencies indefinitely.\n\nConstitutional Affairs minister Stephen Lam insists the reform proposal is more democratic than the 2005 package which was voted down by the Legislative Council, and was more likely to advance the city's political system if approved. He said that the timetable of universal suffrage in 2017 and 2020 was not an ideal, but asserted that it was \"a practical one that is accepted by over 60 percent of residents.\"\n\nChief Secretary Henry Tang said the government would consider scrapping appointed district councillors if sufficient opposition lawmakers promise to support the 2012 political reform package. Speaking at a seminar, Tang warned pan-democrats that being \"led by the nose by a small group of loud people, one will only step onto a road of no return paved with thorns.\" He said that there was time to have an in-depth discussion on whether functional constituencies should exist, and how legislators should be elected under universal suffrage, but said: \"It is undemocratic, unscientific and impractical to simplify the matter as `scrapping functional constituencies' and peg it with the 2012 political reform package.\"\n\nPan-democrats expressed their deep disappointment with the proposals; their 18 legislators intimated their preparedness to vote down the package if no further progress is made on democracy.\n\nThe Democratic Party condemned the consultation document for failing to bring in dual universal suffrage (for LegCo and for the Chief executive elections) by 2012, and again demanded the functional constituencies, which were untouched by the proposal, to be abolished for good. The \"One person, two votes\" concept was also brought up. However, the Democratic Party stopped short of refusing the proposal outright, and expressed the view that if there is no universal suffrage in 2012, the proposal must state that there will be 'real' universal suffrage in 2017 and 2020.\n\nThe Democratic Party opting for engagement with Beijing, having assessed was that Beijing was keen to see a breakthrough in the reform talks because it realised that Chief executive Donald Tsang's administration would become a lame-duck administration if his reform package was again defeated. Believed that Beijing wanted reform in Hong Kong to offset international pressure over the lack of human rights, and to set an example for Taiwan, they set, they abandoned the 'radicals' to their referendum plan. The Alliance for Universal Suffrage – an umbrella group of moderates with Democratic Party at its core which counts 15 legislators as its members – entered into discussions with representatives of Beijing. They asked for guarantees of the abolition of functional constituencies before they would accept an increase in the government's proposal. In May, Pan-democrat groups reported having been in contact with mainland officials for several months to discuss ideas for reform; they quote officials as saying that a statement on electoral reform beyond 2012 will be made, conditional upon LegCo's approval of the current package. However, one member of the Alliance said \"Pan-democrats would be reluctant to take the political risk to back the proposal for the 2012 elections before Beijing makes a statement on the electoral arrangements beyond 2016.\"\n\nCivic Party lawmaker Audrey Eu said her party will not support the \"regressive and unacceptable\" reform package, that increases the number of functional constituency seats. She said the current proposals, still lacking a roadmap and is thus confined to discussing change for 2012, and not beyond, are no improvement on those vetoed five years ago. She criticised the government for dodging important questions such as how universal suffrage reconciled with functional constituencies; how reform will not be blocked in Legco by functional constituency legislators, who make up half the chamber; and how the political system should evolve to improve governance and mitigate the increasing societal conflict and widening wealth gap.\n\nLSD chairman Andrew To understood that Donald Tsang does not have the power to initiate democratic reform. He said the package was 'old wine in a new bottle', written to give the illusion of reform, while allowing Hong Kong's vested interests to maintain their political power. He lamented the relegation of real reform off into the vague future. To warned Tsang and the pro-Beijing camp not to twisted the definition of universal suffrage against the people's interests, and rejected the pro-Beijing camp's assertions that functional constituencies were compatible with the concept of full universal suffrage.\n\nAnson Chan dismissed the latest package as \"retrograde\": increasing functional constituencies further entrenched narrow vested interests. She called on the government give a clear commitment to abolishing functional constituencies by 2020 at the latest; to make the composition of Election Committee for the chief executive more representative and its workings more transparent; to broaden the electoral base by rebalancing constituencies.\n\nCardinal Joseph Zen expressed his outrage, anger and helplessness at being \"treat[ed] like idiots\" by the government. He denounced the \"faux-consultation\" on a package which was little different from the undemocratic proposal voted down in 2005, in that it lacked direction, and road map for universal suffrage. \"Even if we reject it, it will not affect the introduction of universal suffrage in 2017 and 2020,\" he said.\n\nDAB chairman, Tam Yiu-chung, said that while the proposals could be improved upon, his party supported enlarging the Election Committee to 1,200, and creating five district council functional constituency seats in 2012. He proposed to then open up the six district council functional constituency seats for all members of the public, not just district councillors, to contest. In late April, LegCo president Jasper Tsang increased pressure on pan-democrats, whilst triggering controversy when he indicated his willingness to resign his post to vote for reform proposals. He said \"Government officials probably also agree my vote is more important than my being Legco president. My post can be temporarily taken by someone else.\"\n\nWhilst believing the reform package represents a step forward in democratisation, the Liberal Party expressed disappointment that the package did not address the need to expand the electorate base of functional constituencies. James Tien said that in failing to offer concrete proposals on functional constituencies, the government was \"not scratching where it itches\". He suggested that under a model where functional constituencies would be retained, voters should be able choose a functional constituency in which to cast a second vote. He said that people would enjoy equal voting rights compatible with the principle of universal suffrage; expert views and sectoral interests would still be represented in a legislature otherwise dominated by career politicians.\n\nIndependent legislator and former security minister Regina Ip criticised the precipitation of the by-election. She urged the public to refocus on the two methods for selecting the chief executive and electing the legislature in 2012, to forge a consensus on how to move forward in 2012, and lay the foundation for universal suffrage in 2017 and 2020.\n\nThe Law Society and Bar Association reiterated their call for the abolition of functional constituencies as being non-compliant with international law – Article 25(b) of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and Article 21 of the Bill of Rights. They urged the government to put forward a revised consultation document with more progressive proposals, a clear road map on the way forward, and a commitment to abolish functional constituencies.\n\nLaw Society observed that structure of the proposals places a very heavy burden on the chief executive in the three years 2017 to 2020 when major changes were required, and expressed concern that it may thus breach the requirement of the principle of 'gradual and orderly progress' enshrined in Articles 45 and 68 of the Basic Law. The Bar Association said that corporate or directors' voting was also incompatible with international law; they said the failure to comply is not mitigated by replacing corporate voting by an authorised representative with voting by directors, executives, member associations, individual members.\n\nThe Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce supported maintaining functional constituencies, to provide Legco with the necessary expertise in scrutinising bills and policies. But was open to discuss ways to broaden their voter base, such as 'one-person, two-votes'. They hope to see alignment of chief executive with a political party to facilitate governance, and the CE able to appoint legislators from like-minded groups as principal officials to further cement the link between the administration and the legislature. In a survey conducted by TNS, more than 60 percent of business and opinion leaders in Hong Kong want Beijing to promise to take steps in 2016 to pave the way for universal suffrage and abolish functional constituencies; 43% of those surveyed believed the central government should make more concessions to ensure the passage of the package, while one-quarter say the pan-democratic camp should offer concessions. However, on the possible veto, 43% of the respondents would favour a veto if there was no roadmap for universal suffrage, compared with 39 per cent who disagreed. A pro-Beijing legislator for Kowloon East said the majority of Hong Kong people considered the proposal inadequate and hoped Beijing would make more concessions.\n\nJoseph Wong, former secretary for civil service, suggested the government could go further in broadening the democratic base of electorates for the Election Committee by adding new seats in three sub-sectors, to be returned by individual voting; the nomination threshold for the 2012 chief executive election should be lowered from one-eighth to one-tenth, or 160 nominations. He suggest that Legco should remain at 60, but five trade-based seats – education, legal, medical, health services and social welfare – should be returned by 'one man, one vote'.\n\nSimon Young, director of the Centre of Comparative and Public Law at the University of Hong Kong, said they hoped for a gradual rearrangement of functional constituencies sectors to achieve greater balance, and to diminish the influence of the most problematic functional constituencies – the commercial, industrial and financial sectors, which operate by corporate or directors' votes, and then abolishing them by 2020.\n\nFormer legislator, Christine Loh of Civic Exchange acknowledged the HK government had little room for manoeuvre. She said it was widely held that Hong Kong elections were unfair. Functional constituencies and sub-sector elections for the legislature and chief executive selection respectively needed urgent change to remove corporate voting because vested business interests enjoy an excessively dominant role in politics – the alignment of commercial interests with political interests creating a deadly combination. She said it was regrettable that Tsang and his team of officials could not be seen to stand and fight side by side with Hong Kong people, but were instead little more than Beijing's messengers.\n\nTeachers' group Education Convergence said there needed to be a road map for universal suffrage for the chief executive and LegCo elections in 2017 and 2020. The one-eighth nomination threshold for chief executive candidates must be lowered to 50 votes. The government must promise that all functional constituencies will be abolished in 2020.\n\nIn a Hong Kong University poll in May, 48% respondents said legislators should accept the proposals, while the government cited a One Country Two Systems Research Institute survey of 856 people, which suggested 60 per cent supported the proposals.\n\nFollowing the by-election, it was revealed that meetings had been arranged for \"moderate\" pan-democrats to meet Beijing representatives – the first meeting between Democratic Party leaders and senior officials from the central government since the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989 – for talks on democratic development. To that end, Li Gang, the deputy director of the central government's liaison office in Hong Kong, met with Democratic Party leaders Emily Lau, Cheung Man-kwong and Albert Ho for talks on 24 May; he met the Alliance for Universal suffrage representatives on 26 May, and members of the Association for Democracy and People's Livelihood (ADPL) on 28 May. The Democrats demanded that district council functional constituency lawmakers, instead of being chosen in 2012 by Councillors, that they be nominated by Councillors but elected through universal suffrage. They also argued for scrapping functional constituencies in 2020 and keeping the nomination threshold of 2017 chief executive election at 100 votes. Li Gang rejected these demands, on the grounds that enlarging the voter base in such a way would \"not be in line with the original intent of the Basic Law\", he asked them to soften their stance \"for the good of all\".\nAn insider to the negotiations with Beijing revealed that mainland officials said that the Democratic Party must be prepared to drop the 4 June issue if it wanted to maintain a long-term dialogue. As a result of the hostility from fellow pan-democrats at the Democratic Party 'betrayal' vote, DP agreed to deliver a report disclosing full details of their negotiations with Beijing.\n\nFollowing the by-election, the government stepped up efforts to gain support for the reform package. It commissioned two television advertisements which emphasised the need to move forwards with democratisation. Tsang began to campaign via radio interviews, and he and his ministers took to the streets to mobilise support. The roadshow culminated with a televised debate with Audrey Eu of the Civic Party.\n\nOn 17 May, one day after the by-election, Donald Tsang gave an interview to Metro Radio in the final push to gain support for the constitutional reform proposals. When asked whether he would consider agreeing to a televised debate, he only smiled. On 21 May, reports came that Audrey Eu had accepted Tsang's invitation to a one-hour televised debate on the reform package on 17 June, one week before the LegCo vote. The move puzzled some observers. Ma Ngok, a Chinese University academic, said there was a risk it could be seen as recognition of the claimed mandate following the referendum call. Politician Regina Ip criticised the decision as unnecessarily giving political platform to the leader of a movement which the government has worked hard to condemn (i.e. Audrey Eu and the pan-democrats). The Democratic Party and the League of Social Democrats complained that their parties were being excluded from the debate. Although the public was to be excluded, ostensibly for public order reasons, Tsang provoked controversy by saying, \"The seven million people in Hong Kong can all participate.\" The Democratic Party's Albert Ho called Tsang's definition of \"participation\" as \"a joke\". The \"South China Morning Post\" welcomed Tsang's decision to debate with Eu on television; Ip said that Tsang's heroism was laudable, but that he had more to lose; political commentator Frank Ching said that the stakes were high for Tsang: a repeat of the 2005 veto would cast him as someone who cannot get things done for Beijing. Hong Kong University academic Albert Cheng said that the public was, quite rightly, favourably disposed towards the debate as the way of breaking the stalemate and moving forwards; he condemned all those politicians who were self-promoting, and 'grandstanding' of their own agendas to the detriment of Hong Kong.\n\nTwo publicly funded television commercials entitled \"Move forward. Don't stand still\" and \"Trust makes our dream come true\" urged support for the reform package but were greeted with controversy; a third publicly funded television spot featuring three ExCo members was launched in late May. A citywide poster campaign was also planned. According to Regina Ip, full-page newspaper advertisements by the government were \"unimpressive\".\n\nIn a very short time after the campaign slogan and logo was made public, detractors had already created a parody which turned the original Chinese slogan 'Act Now' (起錨 in Chinese, meaning 'up-anchor') into ideograms for 'All Wrong' (超錯 in Chinese) & 'Collect Skin' (收皮 is a crude term in Chinese). In his personal blog, Tsang attacked his opponents, saying that those opposing the reform measures were the ones who were getting it all wrong. On the weekend of 29/30 May, Tsang and his ministers toured Hong Kong on an unpublicised itinerary to deliver flyers and meet the public. Tsang described as \"myths\" which surrounded the proposals – that it is regressive, it makes little difference whether it is passed or not, and that ordinary people are not concerned by political developments. He said they were \"the first step as well as the last opportunity\" to lay the foundation for a chief executive elected by universal suffrage in 2017. He expressed his fear that \"a mood of pessimism and cynicism will take root\" if there was no progress this time. Ministers visited schools to inform and discuss the proposals with staff and students; some were mobbed when leaving the schools' premises.\n\nMinisters continued their campaign roadshow on the weekend of 5/6 June: they split into three teams to cover the territory. Henry Tang led a team into shopping malls in Kowloon; Donald Tsang made stops at destinations on Hong Kong Island, while John Tsang led colleagues to the New Territories in an attempt to distribute leaflets and badges to the public. Despite the government disclosing ministers' itineraries at short notice, the roadshow was greeted the destinations by students, activists and pan-democratic supporters who had gathered to show their opposition and to demand abolition of functional constituencies. Addressing the crowds, Tsang accused the protesters as being 'the minority'. He used the sailing analogy adopted for the campaign, telling protesters to \"stop obstructing this vessel from moving forward.\" The government disclosed that it had spent HK$9 million excluding airtime as at 9 June.\nOn the day, organisers estimated 120,000 participated in the pro-government rally; Police estimated 70,000, and said 43,000 of them subsequent marched on to Central. Attendees at the rally included Donald Tsang, Liberal Party leader, Miriam Lau, DAB chairman Tam Yiu-chung and Executive Council convenor Leung Chun-ying. The organisation phase or the rally was marred by controversies– there were accusations that organisers were buying support, and certain schools were caught up in exerting undue pressure:\n\nPro-government groups planning a rally on 19 June were attempting to attract participants to their rally in support of the reform proposals by offering free or low-priced junkets. The Hong Kong Quanzhou Association offered registered participants a HK$200 \"meal allowance\"; Patrick Lau, a government-appointed member of Eastern district council, Wong Wang-tai and Stephen Ng of Wan Chai district council advertised a \"promotional tour\" through New Century Society and the Happy Valley Residents' Association for HK$30 (US$3.80). A promotional leaflet reads: \"Have fun on a tour to Lei Yu Mun, and support the political system to move forward\". The organisers denied it was of a political nature, saying it was \"only a cheap tour\", so it was not inappropriate to ask for a quid pro quo. The Beijing-friendly Federation of Trade Unions counter-accused the CTU of offering participants of a Labour Day march an eight-course seafood meal and transportation for HK$40. The FTU, which expects 20,000 to join the rally, said it had been \"negligent\" in failing to issue a guideline to affiliated organisations, but reiterated the alliance would not accept handing out cash to participants.\n\nSchools were also the subject of controversy when it was revealed that the MFBM Chan Lui Chung Tak Memorial College in Tin Shui Wai tried to force its students to attend the rally by making it part of the curriculum for which academic credit would be awarded. After the school's notice had circulated widely on the Internet, and outcry among parents, the school's principal made participation voluntary. Teaching staff at the Federation of Education Workers Wong Cho Bau Secondary School in Tung Chung complained to the media that the principal declared participation in the march \"an [compulsory] extra-professional development activity\" aimed to provide teachers with an opportunity to gain a better understanding of the political situation. The school later denied compulsion, saying it merely informed teachers about the march during a regular conference and never asked them to make public their stance on political development.\n\nThe one-hour televised debate between Audrey Eu duly took place at 18:35 on 17 June at the Central Government Offices with only a TV audience as planned. A three-member panel – headed by the debate moderator Ng Ming-lam – sifted through the 2,876 questions received, and drew lots to select questions for the debate.\nTerrestrial broadcasters TVB and ATV said the debate's audience rating averaged out at 1.21 million viewers. Pundits were unanimous that Eu had trounced Tsang in the debate; an overwhelming majority (some 70%) of respondents polled by the HKU and Lingnan University said Eu had won, and some 15% declared in favour of Tsang. Eu's performance was described a polished and engaging, which Tsang was universally panned as being unconvincing, and being reliant on a prepared script. Although Tsang argued that the real winners were the Hong Kong people, who gained a better understanding of his proposals, \"The Standard\" declared that it was a public relations disaster for the government. The University of Hong Kong poll showed that 45% of people were \"more opposed\" to the government's proposals after the debate, while 20% said they were more supportive. Making light of his defeat, he referred to some pundits' saying that the debate was a bit like the World Cup match between Argentina and South Korea: \"My wife told me, like Argentina ... managed to get past the halfway mark so many times, I didn't even get through once.\"\n\nThe Hong Kong government announced on 7 June that their proposals, basically unchanged since they were unveiled, would be submitted to LegCo in two motions on 23 June: 1) the Amendment to method for forming HK's LegCo, and 2) Amendment to method of selecting the Chief executive.\n\nChief Secretary Henry Tang said: \"The package was put forth after careful deliberations. It was formulated after extensive consultation and discussions among members of the public, different sectors of the community and Legco.\" He reiterated that there was little room, if any, for more changes since the government had already \"pushed to the limit\" its authority to reform the political structure arising from a 2007 decision by the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress. Pan-democrats, who said any proposals which gave no indication of how universal suffrage would eventually be implemented in 2017 and 2020 were unacceptable, further said the division of new seats in the Election Committee would effectively give more political power to unelected, pro-Beijing figures; all 23 pan-democrat lawmakers signed a declaration pledging to veto the government proposal unless clauses are added to indicate a commitment to abolish functional constituencies.\n\nOne week before the LegCo vote, while the government was continuing with its 'Act Now' campaign – described by Albert Ho as \"a hard sell\" – activists were mobilising a protest in front of LegCo on the day of the vote. Police leave has been cancelled between 22 and 24 June, ready to deploy in anticipation of mass demonstrations on the scale of the Opposition to the Guangzhou-Hong Kong Express Rail Link in November 2009.\n\nOne week after Democrats' demands were rejected by NPCSC deputy secretary-general Qiao Xiaoyang, and on the same day that Hao Tiechuan of the Central Government Liaison Office also rejected them as unnecessary and \"gilding the lily\", Henry Tang and Stephen Lam attempted to woo the 'moderate' Democratic Party by holding last-minute talks with its leaders. Tang reportedly agreed to make the request to Beijing when Albert Ho said he would urge his party to support the reform proposal in exchange for the general public being allowed to elect legislators from the new five-seat district council functional constituency following their nomination by district council members. After the 'moderates' indicated their 'bottom line', the request was submitted to Beijing government, which indicated its willingness to accept the Democratic Party counter-proposals for five new district council functional constituency seats in the Legislative Council to be returned by popular election. However, there was dissent within the Democratic Party, notably from Martin Lee; other leading pan-democrats, such as Audrey Eu, also did not believe the package went far enough towards meeting democratic aspirations of Hong Kong people under the Basic Law.\n\nOver the weekend of 19 June, the official stance softened considerably: senior officials were quoted in the press saying that proposals which once supposedly violated the Basic Law or the NPCSC decision were now viewed as acceptable. The \"South China Morning Post\" revealed that Donald Tsang had written a letter the previous week to Xi Jinping, Vice-president in charge of Hong Kong affairs, requesting Beijing's endorsement. One SCMP source was quoted as saying, \"The chief executive warned in the letter that Hong Kong could face a serious governance crisis if the electoral reform package was vetoed by Legco again, and his ability to govern Hong Kong effectively would be in doubt\". The source said Hu Jintao personally approved the proposals, as the leadership feared further strengthening of the \"radical\" pan-democrats.\n\nAt their meeting on 21 June, the Democratic Party membership voted by a two-thirds majority in support of their leadership's proposal. However, the breakthrough was not without cost. Within the party, Martin Lee dissented, and said he was contemplating resigning from the party he helped to found, lamenting, \"It's not the party I knew\". Legislators Andrew Cheng and James To said they were still undecided on their LegCo votes, as their loyalty to the party was in conflict with their responsibility to their constituents. The rift with other pan-democrats widened as the revised proposals were still considered inadequate. The Civic Party's membership endorsed their leadership position against the revised plan. There was a very hostile reaction from the League of Social Democrats. 38 civic groups accused the Democratic Party of reneging on its commitment, selling out Hong Kong people and failing to uphold its principles.\n\nThe SCMP endorsed the proposal, but said it would have been better had the proposal \"been part of a carefully thought out road map to universal suffrage in 2017 and 2020\". On 21 June, US Ambassador to China Jon Huntsman, Jr. declared of the revised proposal, \"This seems to be yet another positive step en route to what the people of Hong Kong deserve\".\n\nIn introducing a motion to delay the vote for two weeks, proposer Cyd Ho (Civic Act-up) said: \"What you are doing is requesting the pan-democratic camp to write you a blank cheque … or do the equivalent of telling you the PIN of our ATM card\". Constitutional Affairs minister, Stephen Lam, replied: \"We should not mark time by delaying the debate on the resolutions. We should stride ahead and move towards universal suffrage.\" Accountancy FC legislator Paul Chan (Independent) supported the delay, saying the proposals would then win widespread support through better public knowledge. Audrey Eu said that voting just hours after rough proposal was \"extremely disrespectful to the people, disrespectful to this council, and there are a number of issues left blank which should be resolved\"; Albert Chan said the new proposal lacked consultation, and criticised the government of using political power to hijack public opinion. Lau Kong-wah of the DAB dismissed those who supported the adjournment as people who just \"oppose everything\". Margaret Ng (Civic Party) expressed concern that the government's drafting of vague and open resolutions would give them the opportunity to make last-minute changes without notifying Legco. The adjournment motion failed, after a 5-hour debate; it was supported by directly elected legislators, who voted 18:10 in favour of adjournment, but functional constituency legislators voted 24:6 against. Ip Kwok-him (DAB) later criticised pan-democrats for filibustering with Ho's motion.\n\nFounding member of the Democratic Party, Andrew Cheng, who had publicly pondered his moral dilemma in supporting the vote, announced in his Legco speech that he would quit the party because \"small, but critical differences of opinion\" prevented him from fulfilling his election pledge to strive for universal suffrage in 2012. He however urged other pan-democrats not to doubt the party's sincerity, to stop these personal attacks and continue to pave the way to democracy. Unionist lawmaker Lee Cheuk-yan, who declared his intention to vote against the revised proposals, also urged fellow pan-democrats not to forget human relationships: \"How has Hong Kong come to this, where we are scolding our own friends? ... Why do people feel the Democratic Party is no longer one of us? I absolutely do not feel like this ... I absolutely cannot utter the words that they have 'betrayed the people'.\"\n\nThis did not stop Albert Chan from accusing the Democrats of putting party interests above those of the people, and of distortion and misleading them: \"To strive for universal suffrage in 2012, that was your election pledge ... If you vote in contradiction to your election pledge, then you have betrayed the people.\" A subdued Emily Lau conceded she was effectively reneging on her election pledge, saying: \"I want to apologise to all those who voted for me ... I accept the condemnation of the people.\" James To, who had been 'undecided', supported the proposal. Expressing his grave misgivings, he said he feared the creation of \"super-functional constituencies\" with an even larger mandate than geographical constituency lawmakers, would make them impossible to abolish. To reserved a lament for the change he remarked in Emily Lau, who once had the reputation of a firebrand: \"I thought she would bring a firmer and harder stance on principles and influence the Democratic Party. But instead, it has been the party that has changed her.\"\n\nAfter a nine-hour debate, the resolution which increases the size of the Election Committee which elects the chief executive in 2012 from 800 to 1,200 members, won endorsement at 2.20 pm on 24 June by the legislature by 46 votes to 13. Pan-democrats who supported the proposals included eight from the Democratic Party, Joseph Lee Kok-long and Frederick Fung of the ADPL. James To, who had earlier expressed misgivings about giving his support, voted in favour.\n\nThe loyalist DAB, which had enthusiastically endorsed the original government proposals from the outset, was annoyed at having its credibility weakened by the last minute proposal. The 'Amendment to method for forming the Hong Kong Legislative Council' was approved by LegCo at 13:30 on 25 June, with 46 votes in favour and 12 against. 'Longhair' Leung Kwok-hung was ejected from the chamber just prior to the vote. This adds ten more seats to the legislature, for a total of 70.\n\nFormal assent to the draft amendments to Annexes I and II to the Basic Law concerning the methods of selecting the Chief executive and forming the Legislative Council was given by the Chief executive on 29 June 2010.\nThe National People's Congress Standing Committee in Beijing rubber-stamped the two amendments to the Basic Law at its session held on 28 August 2010, paving the way for local legislation on the specific electoral arrangements to be enacted.\n\nBeijing has been credited for successfully splitting the Pan-democrat camp. The new reform package has been said to be only a little more democratic than ones rejected in 2005, while following the lines of moderate democrats and rejecting radical ones. Sources have warned that Taiwan should watch out for the \"divide and rule\" strategy China used in Hong Kong. Some anti-communist graffiti was daubed on the Legislative Council building following the contentious Legco vote in June.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47029402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47029402", "title": "2015 Central African constitutional referendum", "text": "2015 Central African constitutional referendum\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in the Central African Republic on 13 and 14 December 2015. The referendum was originally scheduled to be held on 5 October 2015, prior to general elections, but was later delayed. Violence on polling day led to voting being extended for another day. The new constitution was approved by 93% of voters. General elections followed on 30 December. \n\nThe new constitution was approved by a large majority in the Transitional Council on 30 August 2015. It provides for the creation of a Senate and a National Election Authority, as well as requiring decisions made by the President and Prime Minister to be approved by ministers, and for the government to inform the National Assembly when a contract relating to mineral resources is signed. Only 15,000 copies of the new constitution were published.\n\nAn unidentified MINUSCA source said that voting was delayed in several districts across Bangui, although not in the PK5 district, where gunfire broke out overnight. Approximately two million citizens registered to vote. Many of the 5,600 polling stations were located in remote regions.\n"}
{"id": "40598211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40598211", "title": "Abuse of rights", "text": "Abuse of rights\n\nIn civil law jurisdictions, abuse of rights (also known as Prohibition of Chicane) is the exercise of a legal right only to cause annoyance, harm, or injury to another. The abuser is liable for the harm caused by their actions. Some examples of this are abuse of power, barratry, frivolous or vexatious litigation, a spite fence or wall, forum shopping, abuse of process, malicious prosecution, tax avoidance (vs. anti-avoidance rules, step transaction doctrine, economic substance), etc. The principle is a creature of case law and was expanded from the neighborhood law doctrine of \"aemulatio vicini\" under the \"jus commune\". This principle departs from the classical theory that “he who uses a right injures no one” (= \"neminem laedit qui suo iure utitur\"), instead embracing the maxim “a right ends where abuse begins” (= \"le droit cesse où l'abus commence\").\n\nThe principle is laid out in German law by the so-called \"Schikaneverbot\" ‘ban on vexatiousness’ (BGB §226). It reads as follows:\nArticle 2 of the \"Titre préliminaire\" to the Swiss Civil Code states: \nArticles 19, 20 and 21 of the Civil Code of the Philippines state that:\n\n\nAt least one of four conditions is required to invoke the doctrine:\n\n\nThe principle does not exist in common law jurisdictions.\n\nIn Scots law (which is mixed civil/common law jurisdiction), abuse of rights is called \"aemulatio vicini\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "17177705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17177705", "title": "Agency worker law", "text": "Agency worker law\n\nAgency worker law refers to a body of law which regulates the conduct of employment agencies and the labour law rights of people who get jobs through them. The typical situation involves the person going to an employment agency and then the employment agency sending the person to an actual employer for proper work.\n\nThe International Labour Organization called for the establishment of public employment agencies in their place. To prevent the abusive practices of private agencies, they were to be fully abolished or at least tightly regulated. In most countries, they are legal but regulated.\n\nProbably inspired by the dissenting judgments in a United States Supreme Court case called \"Adams v. Tanner\", the International Labour Organization's first ever Recommendation was targeted at fee-charging agencies. The Unemployment Recommendation, 1919 (No.1), Art. 1 called for each member to\n\n\"take measures to prohibit the establishment of employment agencies which charge fees or which carry on their business for profit. Where such agencies already exist, it is further recommended that they be permitted to operate only under government licenses, and that all practicable measures be taken to abolish such agencies as soon as possible.\"\n\nThe Unemployment Convention, 1919, Art. 2 required instead the alternative of \n\n\"a system of free public employment agencies under the control of a central authority. Committees, which shall include representatives of employers and workers, shall be appointed to advise on matters concerning the carrying on of these agencies.\"\n\nIn 1933, the Fee-Charging Employment Agencies Convention (No.34) formally called for abolition. The exception was if the agencies were licensed and a fee scale was agreed in advance. In 1949, a new revised Convention (No.96) was produced. That kept the same scheme but secured an ‘opt out’ (Art. 2) for members that did not wish to sign up. Agencies were an increasingly entrenched part of the labor market. The United States did not sign up to the Conventions. The latest Convention, the Private Employment Agencies Convention, 1997 (No.181) takes a much softer stance and calls merely for regulation.\n\n The problem related to the Temporary agency work in Europe has formally achieved its maturity through the implementation of the Council Directive 2008/104/ECafter nearly three decades of debate. In this way, the directive as being the third part of the European Union's employment law package to protect atypical working ( which includes part-time workers and fixed-term workers), aims both to establish a suitable framework for the use of temporary agency work and to develop a flexible form of working.\n\nIn Germany the (Employee Hiring Law of 1972) regulates the agency relationship. It Following the provisions in the \"Burgerliches Gesetzbuch\" (Civil Code) on the law of leasing goods or finance, the agency relationship is seen as a triangular arrangement, with different obligations on each side. The worker is an employee of the agency only. The contract between the agency and the end-employer is termed as a hire of labour. Between the worker and the end-employer there is no contract. There is only a statutory obligation to give equal treatment in terms and conditions of work.\n\nThe UK's main piece of legislation falls under the Employment Agencies Act 1973, which required licensing until 1994. There is an exception, for employment agencies working in the agricultural, shellfishing and food packing sectors, under the Gangmasters (Licensing) Act 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12812413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12812413", "title": "Anti-Jewish legislation in prewar Nazi Germany", "text": "Anti-Jewish legislation in prewar Nazi Germany\n\nAnti-Jewish legislation in pre-war Nazi Germany comprised several laws that segregated the Jews from German society and restricted Jewish people's political, legal and civil rights. Major legislative initiatives included a series of restrictive laws passed in 1933, the Nuremberg Laws of 1935, and a final wave of legislation preceding Germany's entry into World War II.\n\nThe Enabling Act established the power of the Nazi Party to pass law by decree, bypassing the approval of parliament. It was passed on March 24, 1933, and effectively nullified the Weimar Constitution.\n\nIn April 1933, the Law for the Restoration of the Professional Civil Service, or 'Civil Service Law', as it was more commonly known when passed, established the ability of the Nazi Party to legally remove undesirables from the civil service profession, including doctors, teachers and lawyers.\n\nMany local governments also did not allow for the Jews to slaughter animals. In turn, this prevented the Jews from obeying Jewish dietary laws.\n\nThis Law created the basis for the years to come, the Nazi party saw \"racial purity [as a] condition of superior cultural creation and of the construction of a powerful state\". The Civil Service Law was used to purify Germany through excluding Jews from key areas of the German community.\n\nThe Law for the Restoration of the Professional Civil Service \"defined the three groups of undesirable civil servants and provided for their dismissal\". The first group included those who had been appointed after November 9, 1918, and could be removed if they did not have the proper training, which essentially meant anyone could fit into these standards. The Second group were those who were deemed by their past that they would not always support the national state. The third group were any \"non-Aryans\", a way of excluding the Jews without explicitly mentioning \"Jews\" in the legislation.\n\nThis act of legislation was also passed in April as a supplement to the Civil Service Law. This law specifically attacked judges and public prosecutors, and forbade any Jews from taking the bar exam which was necessary to become a lawyer.\n\nThis law affected Jewish doctors, and subsequently Jewish health care. Passed also in April, under this legislation, patients who saw a \"non-Aryan\" doctor would not be covered under the national health insurance, thus excluding Jewish doctors from German society.\n\nLooking to further enact their racial agenda, the Nazi party then looked toward curbing educational policy. On April 25, 1933, the Law Against the Over-Crowding of German schools was passed, and required an end to any Weimar teachings that discussed democracy and equality; it enforced the teaching of racial pride. Under the guise of a concern for educational over-crowding, the Nazis limited the number of Jewish students enrolled in German schools to 1.5% of the total enrollment.\n\nWith the goal of excluding Jews from having full citizenship rights an Advisory Committee for Population and Race Policy met at the ministry of the Interior to discuss a new citizenship law.\n\nWhat followed was the Denaturalization Law passed on July 14. As a result of this law, the Reich government could take away the citizenship of those who were deemed \"undesirable\", applying to anyone who had been given citizenship by the Weimar government. Those who saw the results of this law first were the \"150,000 Eastern Jews in Germany\".\n\nPassed on September 29, 1933, this law \"excluded Jews from owning farmland or engaging in agriculture\". It stated that only Germans could now be farmers. Though the law had minimal effect due to the lack of Jews involved in farming, it still displayed a central idea of the Nazi party that, \"The Reich government passes this law to secure the peasant foundations of our blood line through instituting the ancient customs of land inheritance.\"\n\nOn September 29, 1933, the power of Jewish Cultural life in Germany was transferred to Joseph Goebbels, who established chambers of culture that would regulate activity in their chamber of either film, theater, music, fine arts, literature, broadcasting, and the press.\n\nEach Chamber had the power to exclude anyone involved in any of the facets of culture, even without an \"Aryan clause\" written into the legislation.\n\nFor example, the film chamber could dismiss any Jews involved in any stages of the film-making process including the \"producer, actors and ticket collectors in the theater\". To continue involvement in the film industry one would need \"licensed permission from the chamber president\".\n\nAs a supplement to the Chambers of Culture, a journalism law went into effect on October 4, 1933, stating that to produce work for the press, journalists and editors would also need specific legal permission.\n\nAt their annual party rally held in Nuremberg in September 1935, the Nazi leaders announced a set of three new laws to further regulate and exclude Jews from German Society. These laws now known as the Nuremberg laws served also as the legality for the arrests and violence against Jews that would come to follow.\n\nThe Nuremberg Laws were created in response to Hitler's demands for broadened citizenship laws that could \"underpin the more specifically racial-biological anti-Jewish legislation\". They were made to reflect the party principles that had been outlined in the points Hitler had written in the National Socialist Program in 1920.\n\nThe first law stated that black, red, and white were the national colors, and the swastika flag was the new national flag. Per Hitler, this law was stated to \"re-pay a debt of gratitude to the movement, under whose symbol Germany regained its freedom, in that they fulfill a significant item on the program of the National Socialist Party\".\n\nThe second law established who would be granted full political and civic rights and those who would now be deprived of them. Citizenship rights were to be granted to those who were citizens of the Reich, which were only individuals classified as being of \"German or related blood\"; therefore, Jews were excluded from any and all citizenship rights, becoming \"Staatsangehörige\" or state subjects, essentially making them foreigners in their own country.\n\nThe third law forbade marriage and any relations between Jews and German citizens. The law also made any previously existing marriages or those contracted outside of Germany invalid. Furthermore, Jews were forbidden from employing German female citizens who were under 45 years old. Under this law, Jews were also forbidden to raise the German Flag.\n\nAfter the Nuremberg Laws were passed, the Nazi Party also introduced supplemental decrees to the Citizenship Law and the Law for the Defense of German Blood and Honor to specifically outline who would be considered a Jew, and who would therefore be subject to the Nuremberg Laws' exclusionary principles\n\nOn November 14, the first supplemental decree was published, and it defined a Jewish person as anyone who had at least three full Jewish grandparents, had two Jewish grandparents and were married to a Jewish spouse, belonged to the Jewish religion at the time of the law's publication, or who entered the Jewish religion later. \"Mischlinge\" or the German legal term for those who had \"Aryan\" and Jewish blood, were also clarified to determine who would be considered a Jew. Those that were three-quarters Jewish were Jewish as well as those who were half Jewish due to their choice of becoming Jewish via a Jewish spouse or through joining a Jewish community.\n\nA second decree was published on December 21, which stated that Jewish professors, teachers, physicians, lawyers, and notaries who were state employees, and had previously been exempt, would now be dismissed from their positions.\n\nIn the first decree to the Law for the Defense of German Blood and Honor, it stated which specific marriages were forbidden. These included those \"between a Jew and a \"Mischling\" with one Jewish Grandparent, between a \"Mischling\" and another each with one Jewish Grandparent, and between a \"Mischling\" with two Jewish Grandparents and a German\".\n\nIn order to prevent foreign criticism of Germany, and keep the 1936 Olympics in Berlin, and to prevent economic loss and a blow to German prestige, Hitler eased the anti-Jewish stance momentarily.\n\nOn December 3, all anti-Jewish signs near the site of the winter Olympics were to be removed. Though, normally, this would be considered a sign of good faith, it was, in actuality, only an action taken to ensure the Olympics would be held in Germany by preventing international disapproval.\n\nAfter the Nuremberg Legislations and during 1938, \"worse than total expropriation was to follow: Economic harassment and even violence would henceforward be used to force the Jews to flee the Reich or the newly annexed Austria. Within the second phase, 1938 was the fateful turning point.\"\n\nDe-certification of all Jewish physicians, who were no longer allowed to treat German patients and forced to refer to themselves as \"sick-treaters\", a degrading term.\n\nMarch 22, 1938 Jews were forbidden from owning private gardens\n\nJuly 27, 1938 A decree was enforced stating all streets in Germany needed to be re-named\n\nNovember 12, 1938 Jews were forbidden from attending movie theaters, the opera, and concerts.\n\nNovember 15, 1938 Jewish children barred from attending public school\n\nThe essential robbery of Jews became legal when Jews were forced on February 21, 1939, to turn in all jewelry of any value.\n\nIn this second wave of legislation, Jews were ostracized even further from society, with strict restrictions living under \"a German regime that practiced terror and arbitrariness through the judicial system\".\n\nKristallnacht or the night of broken glass refers to Jewish pogroms that took place on November 9 and 10 in 1938. This wave of violence took place in Germany, annexed Austria, and areas of Sudetenland that were occupied by Germany. These attacks took place against synagogues, Jewish-owned businesses, other Jewish establishments, and Jewish citizens in general. More than 100 Jewish people were killed, and thousands more were arrested during these attacks. This was also the start to organized Nazi attacks, and the mass incarceration of the Jews. There was no clear Instructions on how to execute the violence, so it caused the destroying of Jewish property and inhumane treatment of Jewish people. The rioters destroyed 267 synagogues throughout Germany, Austria, and Sudetenland. The firefighter were instructed to prevent the flames from spreading to nearby buildings, but not to put the fires out on the burning synagogues. There was also about 7,500 Jewish-owned establishments that were robbed and had their windows shattered. About 30,000 Jewish men were arrested and moved to prisons or concentration camps as well. What made things even worse is the fact that the German government placed full blame on the Jews for the destructions and imposed a fine of one billion Reichsmark on the Jewish community. The government also took away all insurance payouts that would go to the Jews whose businesses or homes got destroyed. This left the Jews responsible for the costs of all repairs.\n\nThis led to many decrees in the weeks following. These decrees were designed to deprive the Jews of their means of living. Many of these movements enforced \"Aryanization\" policy. This meant that Jewish-owned property would be transferred to \"Aryan\" ownership for a fraction of the true value. To further remove the Jews from public life, the Jews were expelled from attending German schools, and they lost the right to have a driver's license or own an automobile.\n\nKristallnacht was essentially the turning point in the Nazis persecution of the Jewish people. It expanded the efforts to remove Jews from German economic and social life. It also led to forced emigration of Jews in order to make Germany free of Jews. Kristallnacht and the events that followed it showed the Nazi regime that they could count on the nationwide support of anti-Semitism from the general public. This showed the Nazis that they could easily move forward with their plans without much opposition from within Germany. The events of Kristallnacht foreshadowed the Holocaust and mass murders of the Jewish people.\n\nDuring the pre-war Nazi Germany period (1933-1939) there were more than 400 laws, decrees and other type of regulations whose goal was to restrict Jews. There were national laws that affected all Jews, and there were state, region and city laws that only affected the Jews in those communities. These regulations limited Jews in all aspects of life, both public and private. Almost all people were involved in the support of anti-Jewish legislation in some way, whether it was passive agreement or direct involvement. These movements were all part of Hitler's intention and plan to rid the planet of all Jewish population. Hitler's plan started with stripping all Jews of their basic rights, before moving into the mass murdering of the Jewish people.\n\n1933: \n1934: \n1935:\n1936: \n1937: \n1938: \n1939: \n\n"}
{"id": "36617250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36617250", "title": "Art Bowker", "text": "Art Bowker\n\nArt Bowker, born 1961 in Ohio, is an author and cybercrime specialist in corrections (pretrial, probation, and parole). \nHis first book, \"The Cybercrime Handbook for Community Corrections: Managing Risk in the 21st Century\", describes the process of supervising cyber-offenders. \nBowker cowrote his second book,\" Investigating Internet Crimes, 1st Edition: An Introduction to Solving Crimes in Cyberspace \", with Todd G. Shipley. His second book provides step-by-step instructions for investigating Internet crimes, including locating, interpreting, understanding, collecting, and documenting online electronic evidence to benefit investigations.\n\nBowker has been interviewed by CrimCast and American Hero's Radio. Bowker is a lifetime member of the High Technology Crime Investigation Association (HTCIA), having served as International President of the organization in 2008.\nHe has written cybercrime articles that have appeared in the \"FBI Law Enforcement Bulletin\", \n\nOn January 14, 2013, Bowker was awarded the APPA Sam Houston State University Award, for work in promoting awareness and knowledge of cybercrime and tools to combat such crimes in the field of community corrections.\n\nOn November 22, 2013, he was recognized by the Federal Probation and Pretrial Officers Association (FPPOA) with their top honor, the Richard F. Doyle Award, for having made the most significant achievement in, or contribution to, the Federal Probation & Pretrial Services System or the broader field of corrections. Additionally, Bowker received the Thomas E. Gahl, Line Officer of the Year Award (Great Lakes Region Award), which is named in honor of the only U.S. Probation Officer killed in the line of duty. Both awards centered on his contributions and efforts in managing cybercrime risk.\n\nOn August 30, 2016, he was recognized by the High Technology Crime Investigation Association with the HTCIA Lifetime Achievement Award, an annual recognition given to one individual with at least seven years membership, who has made significant contributions to HTCIA goals. Some specific factors considered in bestowing of this top award include evidence of advancing the field of computer investigations and prevention of high tech crimes through education and/or the development of tool(s) and or technique(s) and participation as a Chapter or International officer.\n"}
{"id": "5585074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5585074", "title": "Attorney at foreign law", "text": "Attorney at foreign law\n\n, or for short, are lawyers from foreign countries licensed to practice law in Japan.\n\nThe term \"gaiben\" is composed of the characters for , defined as \"outside, without\" and \", defined as speech, tongue\". Two authoritative translations of the term are Registered Foreign Lawyers (RFL), or Foreign Special Members. The colloquial term gaiben is often used by individuals, but is not determinative.\n\nBefore becoming a \"gaiben\", a lawyer must:\n\n\nA 13-member screening committee of the Japan Federation of Bar Associations reviews each application, a process which usually takes several months. Upon approval, the lawyer's official title becomes \"Attorney at Foreign Law for \"[state]\",\" with their home jurisdiction filled in.\n\nBy law, \"gaiben\" can only give advice pertaining to the law of their home jurisdiction, and cannot draft legal documents or represent Japanese clients in intrastate matters or probate matters without the assistance of a qualified \"bengoshi\" (attorney at law). They are also prohibited from representing clients in courtroom litigation, although they may represent clients in private arbitration. As a result, they are generally involved in intermediating between foreign clients and Japanese lawyers, intermediating between foreign and Japanese clients, or assisting Japanese clients with foreign legal matters.\n\nSeveral thousand foreign-qualified lawyers, many of them Japanese nationals, work in Japan as employees of law firms or corporate legal departments without being admitted as \"gaiben\". Nonetheless, there are several legal benefits to qualifying as a \"gaiben\":\n\n\nThe main drawback to qualifying as a \"gaiben\" is the cost of Japanese bar association membership, which is often over ¥60,000 per month.\n\nAs of June 2013 there were 363 \"gaiben\" registered in Japan, almost all of whom were registered with one of the three Tokyo bar associations. The main jurisdictions of admission were New York (102), England and Wales (60), California (45), the People's Republic of China (29), New South Wales (16) and Hawaii (14).\n\nForeign lawyers were allowed to practice with varying restrictions in Japan from 1876 until 1955. Prior to 1949, their practice was limited to cases involving foreigners or international matters. From 1949 until 1955, foreign lawyers were allowed to practice both Japanese and foreign law by registering with the Supreme Court of Japan, and were even allowed to litigate in cases involving foreign aliens. Although this system ended in 1955, lawyers already registered under the system, known as \"junkaiin\" or \"quasi-members\" of the bar, were allowed to continue practicing. The \"junkaiin\" played a major role in Japan's international trade during the following decades, and trained many Japanese lawyers in the area of international business transactions. It was also common for foreign lawyers to serve as \"trainees\" in Japanese law firms, effectively practicing foreign law under the supervision of a Japanese-qualified attorney.\n\nIn 1977, Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy became the first foreign law firm to establish an office in Tokyo under its own name, amid opposition from both the Ministry of Justice and Japan Federation of Bar Associations, who viewed it as illegal for foreign lawyers to practice in Japan. Despite these protests, Milbank's office remained open through the early 1980s, and along with the office of a Hong Kong-based firm, was the only office of a foreign law firm in Japan during that time. The United States government began to view the restrictions on foreign lawyers as a trade barrier during the early 1980s, and in 1984, the Japan Federation of Bar Associations exchanged proposals with the American Bar Association regarding a new foreign lawyer registration system.\n\nThe initial \"gaiben\" law, effective in 1987, allowed foreign lawyers with requisite work experience to practice foreign law in Japan, but prohibited employment of, or partnership with, Japanese attorneys, and also prohibited the use of any firm name other than the foreign lawyer's own name. A revised law enacted in 1994 made it possible to establish fee-sharing (but not profit-sharing) \"joint enterprises\" between \"gaiben\" and local lawyers. Further revisions in 2003 removed the prohibitions on employment of Japanese attorneys and allowed profit-sharing joint ventures between foreign and Japanese attorneys.\n\nThe interpretation of the licensing requirements has varied between firms over time, and not all foreign lawyers in Japan are registered. In 2005, the Japan Federation of Bar Associations circulated a letter requesting that all foreign partners in law firms in Japan register as \"gaiben\". This was followed in 2009 by a similar letter requesting that all foreign attorneys providing legal services in Japan be registered as \"gaiben\", regardless of their title within their firm; the JFBA later clarified that this was not intended to impose new requirements but rather to remind firms of existing requirements.\n\n"}
{"id": "7540432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7540432", "title": "Auditor General Act", "text": "Auditor General Act\n\nThe Auditor General Act is an Act of Parliament respecting the office of the Auditor General of Canada and sustainable development monitoring and reporting.\n\n"}
{"id": "646269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=646269", "title": "Bailiwick", "text": "Bailiwick\n\nA bailiwick is usually the area of jurisdiction of a bailiff, and once also applied to territories in which a privately appointed bailiff exercised the sheriff's functions under a royal or imperial writ. The word is now more generally used in a metaphorical sense, to indicate a sphere of authority, experience, activity, study, or interest. A bailiwick () was also the territorial division of the Teutonic Order. Here, various “Komtur(en)” formed a \"Ballei\" province.\n\nThe term survives in administrative usage in the British Crown dependencies of the Channel Islands, which are grouped for administrative purposes into two bailiwicks — Jersey (comprising the island of Jersey and uninhabited islets such as the Minquiers and Écréhous) and Guernsey (comprising the islands of Guernsey, Sark, Alderney, Brecqhou, Herm, Jethou and Lihou). A Bailiff heads each Channel Island bailiwick.\n\nThe term originated in France (\"bailie\" being the Old French term for a bailiff). Under the ancien régime in France, the bailli was the king's representative in a bailliage, charged with the application of justice and control of the administration. In southern France, the term generally used was sénéchal (cf seneschal) who held office in the sénéchaussée. The administrative network of \"baillages\" was established in the 13th century, based on the earlier medieval fiscal and tax divisions (the 'baillie') which had been used by earlier sovereign princes. (For more on this French judicial system, see bailli, prévôt and Early Modern France.)\n\nIn English, the original French \"bailie\" combined with '-wic', the Anglo-Saxon suffix (meaning a village) to produce a term meaning literally 'bailiff's village'—the original geographic scope of a bailiwick. In the 19th century, it was absorbed into American English as a metaphor for a sphere of knowledge or activity.\n\nAt Bicester in Oxfordshire, the lord of the manor of Market End was the Earl of Derby who, in 1597, sold a 9,999 year lease to 31 principal tenants. This in effect gave the manorial rights to the leaseholders, ‘purchased for the benefit of those inhabitants or others who might hereafter obtain parts of the demesne’. The leaseholders elected a bailiff to receive the profits from the bailiwick, mainly from the administration of the market and distribute them to the shareholders. From the bailiff’s title, the arrangement became known as the Bailiwick of Bicester Market End. By 1752 all of the original leases were in the hands of ten men, who leased the bailiwick control of the market to two local tradesmen.\n\n"}
{"id": "27814516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27814516", "title": "Betancourt v. Trinitas Hospital", "text": "Betancourt v. Trinitas Hospital\n\nBetancourt v. Trinitas Hospital is a New Jersey legal case concerning whether a hospital may unilaterally refuse care to a patient on the grounds that it is futile to prolong the person's life because there is little chance that the condition will improve. It has become the focal point of the ongoing debate surrounding denial of care among professional bioethicists. \n\nRuben Betancourt of Elizabeth, New Jersey was a 73-year-old retired machinist who suffered from anoxic encephalopathy, a form of brain damage, following successful thoracic surgery for a thymus gland tumor at Trinitas Regional Medical Center in 2008. His doctors determined that he was in a persistent vegetative state, removed his dialysis port, and sought to impose a do not resuscitate order on him. In response to this decision, Betancourt's daughter went to court and sought legal guardianship of her father. The hospital, which is affiliated with the Catholic Church, opposed her petition. In court papers, Trinitas argued that \"Mr. Betancourt is dying...and that dying is being prolonged by the treatment rendered.\" A trial court ruled in favor of Betancourt's daughter, finding that she was unquestionably a loving, appropriate guardian, and was also the unanimous choice of her family. The hospital appealed the court's decision. In contrast, Betancourt's daughter does not accept this diagnosis. \"My father would turn his head,\" she told an interviewer. \"One time I was joking, my father started laughing. How can you tell me a person like that is nonresponsive?\". When asked if Betancourt was suffering pain, a Trinitas doctor answered, \"I know it. I've seen it.\" This calls the diagnosis into question, as pain is not consistent with the diagnosis of persistent vegetative state.\n\nBetancourt died in May 2009. On Friday, August 13th, the Appellate Division of the Superior Court of New Jersey issued their opinion in Betancourt v. Trinitas. In essence the court ruled that because Mr. Betancourt had died, the issue was now moot. Thus they neither support the plaintiff’s nor the defendant’s positions.\n\nAccording to Sam Germana, vice president and general counsel for Trinitas, the hospital's ethics committee met multiple times to evaluate Betancourt's case. \"Our doctors usually err on the side of doing anything,\" he told the press. \"It's extremely rare when they say 'enough is enough, we're just keeping organs alive.\" At the time of the committee meetings, Betancourt's care had directly cost the hospital, by its own estimate, $1.6 million.\n\nThe case had become a cause celebre for both supporters and opponents of the right of patients, and their surrogate decision-makers, to choose whether to discontinue life-sustaining medical treatment. Among those who had taken the hospital's side are the New Jersey Hospital Association, the Medical Society of New Jersey, and the Catholic Healthcare Partnership of New Jersey. These organizations have argued that unconscious, elderly, or terminally ill patients do not have an \"unfettered\" right to choose whether their lives will be sustained. They also argued that hospitals have a duty to conserve their limited resources for all patients. \n\nThe family has received support from a prominent authority on medical futility, Thaddeus Mason Pope, and conservative commentator Wesley J. Smith. Smith has written: \"If the hospital won the case, doctors and bioethicists would, in effect, have been given the right to declare that the life of a patient diagnosed in a PVS is futile, and once that principle became well established in law and medical ethics, such ad hoc health care rationing wouldn’t end with catastrophically ill people such as this patient.\"\n\nIn explaining its reasoning for dismissing the case as moot, the court stated:\n\n\"Courts normally will not decide issues when a controversy no longer exists, and the disputed issues have become moot…\" \"A critical factor in the mootness analysis is whether the unusual circumstances of a case make a recurrence of this specific set of facts unlikely. This is the decisive issue here.\" \n\nThe Court opined that it is up to legislature to handle the issues raised by the case: \n\n\"While we dismiss the appeal, we do not see our declination to resolve the issue on this record and in this case to be an end to the debate. The issues presented are profound and universal in application. They warrant thoughtful study and debate not in the context of overheated rhetoric in the battlefield of active litigation, such as marked the Schiavo debate, but in thoughtful consideration by the Legislature well as Executive agencies and Commissions charged with developing the policies that impact on the lives of all.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5308815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5308815", "title": "Calligraphus", "text": "Calligraphus\n\nA calligraphus (pl. \"calligraphi\") was an ancient copyist or scrivener, who transcribed correctly and in its entirety what the notaries had taken down in notes, or minutes—duties similar to the modern work of engrossing.\n\nThe minutes of acts, etc., were always taken down in a kind of cipher, or shorthand, so that the \"Notaries\", as the Romans called them, or the ' and ', as the Greeks called them, could keep pace with a speaker or person who dictated. These notes being understood by few, were copied exactly by people with good handwriting; these were called \"calligraphi\", a name often found in ancient writings.\n"}
{"id": "51155612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51155612", "title": "Charlotte L. Brown", "text": "Charlotte L. Brown\n\nCharlotte L. Brown (1839–?) was an American educator and civil rights activist who was one of the first to legally challenge racial segregation in the United States when she filed a lawsuit against a streetcar company in San Francisco in the 1860s after she was forcibly removed from a segregated streetcar.\n\nBrown was born in Maryland in 1839, the daughter of James E Brown, who was born enslaved, and Charlotte Brown, a free seamstress. The elder Charlotte Brown purchased her husband's freedom and in 1850 they were living as Free people of color in Baltimore, Maryland, with several children, including Charlotte. Some time between 1850 and 1860 they moved their family to San Francisco, which was booming as a result of the California Gold Rush, and became a part of that city's burgeoning black middle class. The black population of the city at that time was 1,176 people, or about 2 percent. In San Francisco, James E Brown ran a livery stable, was a partner in the black newspaper \"Mirror of the Times\", an antislavery crusader, and a member of the San Francisco Literary Society, a discussion and debate group for prominent African American men.\n\nAt 8PM on April 17, 1863, Charlotte Brown took a seat on a horse-drawn streetcar one block from her home on Filbert Street in San Francisco. She was on her way to see her doctor. The streetcar was owned by the Omnibus Railroad Company. When the streetcar conductor approached her and asked her to leave, Brown said she \"had a right to ride\" and had no intention of leaving the car.\n\nIn her courtroom testimony, she stated:\n\n\"The conductor went around and collected tickets and when he came to me I handed him my ticket and he refused to take it. It was one of the Omnibus railroad tickets, one that I had purchased of them previous to that time. He replied that colored persons were not allowed to ride. I told him I had been in the habit of riding ever since the cars had been running. I answered that I had a great ways to go and I was later than I ought to be.\"\n\nThe conductor, Thomas Dennison, asked her several times to leave, and each time she refused. Finally, when a white woman objected to her presence, he grabbed her by the arm and escorted her off the car.\n\nHer father James E Brown hired attorney W. C. Burnett, and Charlotte Brown brought a lawsuit against the Omnibus Railroad Company for $200. African Americans had just won the right to testify against whites that same year. The Omnibus Railroad argued that its conductor's action was justified because racial segregation protected white women and children who might be fearful or 'repulsed' by riding in the same car as African Americans. Brown won her case, presided over by Judge Cowles, but the jury only awarded her twenty-five dollars. The conductor, Dennison, was convicted in criminal court of assault and battery against Brown.\n\nBrown's civil case was tied up in appeals for the next two years. In one appeals trial, the jury awarded Brown only five cents, the price of the streetcar ticket. Meanwhile, just three days after the first trial, Brown was ejected from yet another streetcar and brought a second suit against Omnibus, this time for $3,000. Finally, in October, 1864, her case was tried in a higher court. In his judgment of October 5, 1864, Judge Orville C. Pratt of the 12th District Court upheld the earlier verdict in favor of Brown, ruling that excluding passengers from streetcars because of their race was illegal. He had no desire, he said in his ruling, to \"perpetuate a relic of barbarism\":\n\n\"It has been already quite too long tolerated by the dominant race to see with indifference the negro or mulatto treated as a brute, insulted, wronged, enslaved, made to wear a yoke, to tremble before white men, to serve him as a tool, to hold property and life at his will, to surrender to him his intellect and conscience, and to seal his lips and belie his thought through dread of the white man's power\", Judge Pratt stated.\n\nIn January, 1865, a jury awarded Brown $500. The Omnibus Railroad Company appealed the verdict but was refused another trial.\n\nAfter the first trial, the black-owned newspaper the \"Pacific Appeal\" noted that the verdict in her favor \"establishes the right, by law, of colored persons to ride in such conveyances\".\n\n\"While the law recognizes and gives us the right to ride in such conveyances,\" the editorial continued, \"there are a certain number of the employees of this Company, who, if a colored person attempts to cross the street while their car is passing, are seized with a sudden fit of Negrophobia, which is generally manifested by pulling their alarm bell violently, as if some danger was imminent, so afraid are they that some other of our respectable females might attempt to exercise the right that Miss Brown has just won. So long as we have law, justice and right on our side, we want no pity.\"\n\nJudge Pratt's 1864 ruling was derided in an editorial cartoon by a local white-owned newspaper that showed blacks and whites riding side by side. Using a racial epithet, it accused Pratt of being partial to African Americans, and questioned whether the light-skinned Brown was really black, or just filing suit for the monetary award. A white editor of \"The Sacramento Daily Union\", on the other hand, said of Pratt's decision, \"his argument is lucid, and his decision, we believe, chimes in with the sentiment of the people\".\n\nThe Charlotte Brown case paved the way for other cases brought by San Francisco African Americans like William Bowen and Mary Ellen Pleasant that challenged the \"whites-only\" practices of the privately owned streetcars. In 1893 streetcar segregation was officially outlawed on statewide streetcars by the California legislature.\n\nAfter Charlotte Brown won her case, Senator Charles Sumner invoked the case in Congress as setting an important precedent for racial equality when he argued in favor of integrating streetcars in the nation's capitol.\n\nIn 1867, Charlotte Brown opened a school for young children at 10 Scotland Street in San Francisco, offering \"all the branches of primary education\" as well as music and embroidery. In 1874, she married James Henry Riker, another prominent African American activist of San Francisco, who had worked as a live-in personal servant to William Chapman Ralston and was employed as a steward at the Palace Hotel during their marriage. Riker, along with Brown's father, was one of the organizers of the 1865 California State Convention of Colored Citizens. The society pages of the black newspaper \"The Elevator\" printed an announcement in 1877 of a surprise party for a fellow steward at the Palace Hotel that was given by Charlotte and James H Riker in their residence on 1018 Powell Street in San Francisco.\n\nLittle is known about Charlotte Brown Riker's life after that time.\n\nThe Charlotte Brown lawsuit was one of the first of several actions that were brought by black activists in both Southern and Northern cities throughout the United States to protest exclusion and segregation on public transportation in the 19th and 20th centuries. In 1854, Elizabeth Jennings successfully filed suit against the Third Avenue Railway Company in New York City after she had been ejected from a streetcar there because of her skin color. In Philadelphia in 1865, a \"Mrs. Derry\" won a civil suit and $50 in damages after a streetcar conductor threw her off the bus and kicked her when she and a group of women were returning from tending to Civil War soldiers.\nSojourner Truth, Ida B. Wells, and Frances Watkins Parker also lobbied actively for streetcar integration after being refused ridership on streetcars in Washington, D.C., Memphis, and Pennsylvania.\n\nThough streetcars in the north were largely de-segregated by the end of the 19th century, segregation on public transportation became the official policy in many cities of the South. In the 20th century, women like Irene Morgan and Mary Louise Smith continued to battle segregation on public transportation. In 1954, Rosa Parks challenged the practice in Montgomery, Alabama, launching a citywide bus boycott and helping to start the Civil Rights Movement of the 1950s and '60s.\n\nIn \"African American Women Confront the West\", scholars Quintard Taylor and Shirley Ann Wilson Moore analyze the Charlotte Brown case and other 19th-century streetcar desegregation lawsuits brought by black women as they relate historically to both race and gender. They noted that it was frequently women who filed these lawsuits because of prevailing ideas of public vs. private space, and white views of black gender roles:\n\n\"Activist black men were keenly aware of the power of black women to go, where they, as men, could not,\" they write. \"Relying on the wedge of gender, black women's lawsuits against streetcar companies ultimately assured the right to travel of blacks generally ... the declaration of law was a general one that applied not simply to Charlotte Brown or to Mary Pleasant, but to all blacks as well.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14137378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14137378", "title": "Civil wrong", "text": "Civil wrong\n\nA civil wrong or wrong is a cause of action under the law of the governing body. Tort, breach of contract and breach of trust are types of civil wrong. Something that amounts to a civil wrong is said to be wrongful. A wrong involves the violation of a right because wrong and right are complementary terms. A statement that an act complained of is legally wrongful as regards the party complaining implicitly includes a statement that the act complained of prejudicially affects the party complaining in some legal right.\n\nThe law that relates to civil wrongs is part of the branch of the law that is called the civil law. A civil wrong is capable of being followed by what are called civil proceedings. It is a misnomer to describe a civil wrong as a \"civil offence\". The law of England recognised the concept of a \"wrong\" before it recognised the distinction between civil wrongs and crimes (which distinction was developed during the thirteenth century).\n"}
{"id": "6085579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6085579", "title": "Colorado Rangers", "text": "Colorado Rangers\n\nThe Colorado Rangers Law Enforcement Shared Reserve (also known as the “Colorado Rangers” or \"CLER\") is an all-volunteer law enforcement agency providing state certified reserve peace officers to assist local law enforcement agencies upon their request. It is the successor agency to the Colorado Mounted Rangers, the latter still existing as a 501(c)(3) nonprofit. The Rangers are the oldest statewide law enforcement organization in Colorado, originally organized in 1861 by the Colorado Territory.\n\nThe Rangers trace their roots to the Jefferson Rangers, keeping the peace in the unofficial Jefferson Territory during the Pikes Peak Gold Rush.\n\nWhen the Colorado Territory was established in 1861, they were reorganized as the Colorado Rangers, continuing to serve as Colorado's only statewide law enforcement agency through the 1920s. The Colorado Rangers were fashioned after the well known Texas Rangers and served as both law enforcement and state militia. <br>\n\nThe Colorado Rangers often fought on horseback with repeating revolvers and were instrumental in the Battle of Glorieta Pass, helping to stop the Confederate advance towards the Colorado gold fields. This battle has become known as the \"Gettysburg of the West\" for its importance to the Union victory.\n\nAfter the Civil War, the Colorado Rangers returned to their law enforcement duties. From time to time the Rangers were also called upon by Colorado's governors to keep the peace during times of civil unrest, natural disasters, and during disputes such as the violent Labor Wars in Colorado's mining towns. The Rangers were also present at the Columbine mine massacre in 1927. The Rangers were accused of firing machine guns into the crowds of miners during the shooting, which was disputed by the Rangers.\nRangers were also utilized by Denver District Attorney Philip Van Cise to break up organized crime and corruption in Denver's City Hall in the early 1920s.\n\nIn 1922 Van Cise set up an independent investigation of the Blonger gang, secretly funded by a group of wealthy Denver citizens. On August 24 of that year, Van Cise used a special force of Colorado Rangers to capture 33 suspects in a single day. Fearing that the Denver Police would tip off the gang once the first suspect was taken to jail, Van Cise detained the gang members in the basement of the First Universalist Church, where he was a member, until the sweep was complete. In Colorado's longest and most expensive trial to that time, 20 con men, including Lou Blonger, was convicted and sent to prison, effectively busting the \"Million-Dollar Bunco Ring.\"\n\nAs a result of a campaign promise to organized labor and other interests, Governor William E. Sweet signed an executive order on January 29, 1923, cutting off funding to the Rangers. The Colorado Rangers were officially disbanded by the Colorado General Assembly on April 1, 1927. This left Colorado without statewide police protection until 1935 when the Colorado State Highway Courtesy Patrol (later becoming the Colorado State Patrol) was formed.\n\nGovernor Teller Ammons re-organized the Colorado Rangers as the Colorado Mounted Rangers, an all volunteer law enforcement organization. On February 21, 1941, they were formally incorporated with a single Troop of 50 Rangers headquartered in Bailey.\n\nIn 1955 with a growing role in civil defense and under the guidance of Teller County Sheriff Rufus Jones, the Colorado Mounted Rangers expanded the organization forming a squadron of Troops located throughout the state. Troops partnered with local Law Enforcement agencies in their area to provide them with additional peace officers when needed.\nIn 2017, the Colorado Mounted Rangers began to transition their membership back into service as a governmental law enforcement agency. A number of municipal law enforcement agencies from around Colorado's front range established the Colorado Rangers Law Enforcement Shared Reserve (abbreviated as \"CLER\" and officially still known as the \"Colorado Rangers\") by intergovernmental agreement to provide reserve peace officers certified by Colorado P.O.S.T. to carry on the law enforcement support role of the Colorado Mounted Rangers. As a result of this transition, the Colorado Mounted Rangers ceased their operational law enforcement auxiliary functions on July 15, 2018. The Colorado Mounted Rangers continue to exist as a nonprofit 501(c)(3) organization.\nThe Colorado Rangers continue their historical mission to provide local law enforcement agencies with trained and experienced personnel when needed. All members of CLER serve as unpaid volunteers, and must supply most of their own equipment and uniforms. As a consequence, CLER is able to provide its services with little financial obligation for requesting agencies. CLER activities include assisting with special events, responding to local emergencies, and providing patrol services when full time personnel are unavailable.\n\nCLER currently has mutual aid agreements with 58 local law enforcement and other government agencies throughout Colorado. These agencies are often located in rural areas where maintaining a local reserve program would be difficult and expensive.\n\nThe Colorado Rangers operate their own grant funded reserve law enforcement academy, approved by the Colorado Peace Officer Standards and Training Board. Four Ranger academies are scheduled for 2018, with the first class graduated June 30, 2018.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7335", "title": "Creature of statute", "text": "Creature of statute\n\nA creature of statute (also known as creature of the state) is a legal entity, such as a corporation, created by statute. Creatures of statute may include municipalities and other artificial legal entities or relationships. Thus, when a statute in some fashion requires the formation of a corporate body—often for governmental purposes—such bodies when formed are known as \"creatures of statute.\" The same concept is also expressed with the phrase \"creature of the state.\"\n\nThe term \"creature of statute\" is most common to the United States. In the United Kingdom, these bodies are simply called statutory corporations (or statutory bodies) and generally have some governmental function. The United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority is an example. In a wider sense, most companies in the UK are created under statute since the Companies Act 1985 specifies how a company may be created by a member of the public, but these companies are not called 'statutory corporations'. Often, in American legal and business documents that speak of governing bodies (\"e.g.\", a board that governs small businesses in China) these bodies are described as \"creatures of statute\" to inform readers of their origins and format although the national governments that created them may not term them as creatures of statute. Australia also uses the term \"creature of statute\" to describe some governmental bodies.\n\nThe importance of a corporate body, regardless of its exact function, when such a body is a creature of statute is that its active functions can only be within the scope detailed by the statute which created that corporation. Thereby, the creature of statute is the tangible manifestation of the functions or work described by a given statute. The jurisdiction of a body that is a creature of statute is also therefore limited to the functional scope written into the laws that created that body. Unlike most (private) corporate bodies, creatures of statute cannot expand their business interests into other diverse areas.\n\n"}
{"id": "13179856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13179856", "title": "Decree of Kutná Hora", "text": "Decree of Kutná Hora\n\nThe Decree of Kutná Hora () or Decree of Kuttenberg () was issued on 18 January 1409 in Kutná Hora (\"Kuttenberg\"), Bohemia by King Wenceslaus IV to give members of the Bohemian nation a decisive voice in the affairs of the Charles University in Prague.\n\nSince the university was founded by King Charles IV in 1348, the \"studium generale\" was divided among Bohemian (including German-speaking citizens), Bavarian, Saxon, and Polish \"nations\". From 1403 onwards, the religious Lollard movement and the doctrines of the Oxford theologian John Wycliffe led to controversy at the Prague University. The Bohemian reformers around Jan Hus wanted to teach this new doctrine, but most German masters and professors voted against the new \"heretic\" thinking. \n\nIn anticipation of the Council of Pisa, the three \"foreign\" nations (Poland, Bavaria and Saxony) at the university opposed the request of Wenceslaus to take a neutral attitude between the two rival popes in the Western Schism. Wenceslaus himself hoped for support of a new Pope to regain the German kingship after his deposition by Rupert of the Palatinate nine years before. However, King Rupert, relying on the support of Pope Gregory XII and the Prague archbishop Zbyněk Zajíc of Hazmburk, pressured German teachers and students not to side with his Bohemian rival. \n\nA delegation led by Jerome of Prague went to Wenceslaus' court staying at the royal city of Kutná Hora (according to other sources at Točník Castle), where the king promised to change the constitution of the university. On 18 January 1409, he had the statutes amended: with his decree, he gave the Bohemian nation three votes and one vote each to the other three nations. Shortly after that, Hus himself became rector of the university, succeeding Johannes Hoffmann von Schweidnitz. As another result of the Decree of Kutná Hora, numerous German academics (about 80 percent of the teaching staff) and their students left the university. This exodus resulted in the foundation of the University of Leipzig in Meissen, among others, and led to a considerable isolation of the Prague university. In 1417 the university officially adopted the Hussite confession and henceforth, Utraquist scholars taught and studied here. The rising influence of this doctrine and the execution of Jan Hus in 1415 culminated in the outbreak of the Hussite Wars.\n\n"}
{"id": "8596369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8596369", "title": "Decriminalization of non-medical cannabis in the United States", "text": "Decriminalization of non-medical cannabis in the United States\n\nIn the United States, the non-medical use of cannabis is decriminalized in 13 states (plus the U.S. Virgin Islands), and legalized in another 10 states (plus the District of Columbia and Northern Mariana Islands), as of November 2018. \"Decriminalization\" refers to a policy of reduced penalties for cannabis offenses, typically involving a civil penalty for possession of small amounts (similar to how a minor traffic violation is treated), instead of criminal prosecution or the threat of arrest. In jurisdictions without any penalties the policy is referred to as legalization, although the term decriminalization is sometimes broadly used for this purpose as well.\n\nThe movement to decriminalize cannabis in the U.S. emerged during the 1970s, when a total of 11 states decriminalized (beginning with Oregon in 1973). The findings of the 1972 Shafer Commission helped provide momentum to these efforts, as did the 1976 election of President Jimmy Carter (who spoke in favor of decriminalization and endorsed legislation to federally decriminalize). By the end of the decade the tide had turned strongly in the other direction, however, and no state would decriminalize again until 2001.\n\nEfforts to legalize cannabis in the U.S. included a number of ballot initiatives leading up to 2012, but none succeeded. In 2012, success was finally achieved when Washington and Colorado became the first two states to legalize. In 2014 and 2016 several more states followed, and in 2018 Vermont became the first to legalize through an act of state legislature. All jurisdictions that have legalized allow for the commercial distribution of cannabis, except Vermont and the District of Columbia. All allow for personal cultivation, except Washington state.\n\nAt the federal level, cannabis remains prohibited for any use under the Controlled Substances Act of 1970. The Justice Department has generally not enforced federal law in states that have legalized cannabis, under the guidance of the Cole Memorandum that was adopted in August 2013. In January 2018, however, the Cole memo was rescinded by Attorney General Jeff Sessions, granting U.S. Attorneys greater authority to enforce federal law.\n\nCannabis was popularized in the U.S. around the mid-19th century, used mostly for its therapeutic benefits in the treatment of a wide range of medical conditions. Its use as medicine continued into the 20th century, but declined somewhat due to a number of different factors. The recreational use of cannabis began to emerge in the early 20th century, introduced to the U.S. by Mexicans fleeing the dictatorship of President Porfirio Díaz. As its use spread north of the border, cannabis became stigmatized due to strong anti-Mexican sentiments that had taken hold.\n\nBy 1936, the non-medical use of cannabis had been banned in every state. Cannabis was then effectively outlawed at the federal level, following the passage of the Marihuana Tax Act of 1937. Cannabis remained mostly an underground drug until the 1960s, when it found widespread popularity among large numbers of young people and hippies, and was used commonly at protests against the Vietnam War. Cannabis was officially banned for any use (medical included) with the passage of the Controlled Substances Act of 1970, following a constitutional challenge to the Marihuana Tax Act of 1937.\n\nThe movement to legalize cannabis in the U.S. was sparked by the 1964 arrest of , a San Francisco man who walked into the city's Hall of Justice and lit up a joint, requesting to be arrested. As it was a felony to use cannabis in California, Eggemeier was quickly hauled off to prison, where he was held for close to a year. Eggemeier was defended by attorney James R. White, who had never worked on a drug case before nor was he much familiar with cannabis, but took interest in the matter as a devoted civil libertarian (describing himself as \"to the right of Barry Goldwater\"). While researching the case, White became a strong proponent for the legalization of cannabis, and went on to found LEMAR (shortened version of LEgalize MARijuana) in December 1964. LEMAR was the first organization in the U.S. dedicated to ending cannabis prohibition.\n\nAmong those in attendance at the first LEMAR rally was poet Allen Ginsberg, who was staying in Berkeley at the time. Upon returning home to New York City he founded the first East Coast chapter of LEMAR. Ginsberg's activism and writings helped inspire the founding of other LEMAR chapters, including a Detroit chapter by fellow poet John Sinclair. Similar groups advocating for legalization formed across the country in the ensuing years.\n\nBy 1971, two main groups supporting cannabis reform had emerged – Amorphia based in San Francisco (founded by Blair Newman) and the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML) based in Washington, D.C. NORML was founded by Keith Stroup, an attorney who had previously worked as a researcher for Ralph Nader's National Commission on Product Safety. Drawing upon his experience working with Nader (and his consumer advocate devotees \"Nader's Raiders\"), Stroup sought to create a consumer advocacy group dedicated to protecting cannabis consumers. He founded NORML in 1970, with the aim of adopting a more professionalized manner of advocacy than other cannabis reform groups (such as Amorphia) more closely associated with the counterculture. Eventually Amorphia was merged into NORML as it ran into financial difficulties, becoming the California chapter of NORML in 1974.\n\nAs part of the Controlled Substances Act of 1970, a commission was formed to study the rising use of cannabis in America, and advise to the president and Congress a set of policy recommendations. President Nixon appointed several members of the commission himself, including former Pennsylvania governor Raymond P. Shafer (who was a former prosecutor with a tough \"law and order\" reputation) to serve as chairman. Nixon made it known to Shafer that he strongly opposed the legalization of cannabis, and he advised Shafer to \"keep your commission in line\" months before the final report was issued. The release of the 1184-page report would not be to Nixon's liking, however, as the Shafer Commission concluded in March 1972 that cannabis was a relatively benign drug whose dangers had been exaggerated. The report also concluded that harsh laws against cannabis did more harm than good, and recommended that criminal penalties be removed for possession and distribution of small amounts of the drug. Nixon firmly rejected the results of the commission, while proponents of reform used the findings to their advantage, frequently citing the report to build support for decriminalizing cannabis in subsequent years.\n\nDuring the early 1970s, legislative efforts to reform cannabis laws began to materialize. Among these was a 1972 ballot measure seeking to legalize cannabis in California, spearheaded by the group Amorphia. Proposition 19 – the California Marijuana Initiative – ultimately failed with 33% of the vote. Although it was defeated by a wide margin, supporters of the initiative were encouraged by the results, which provided momentum to other reform efforts in California throughout the decade.\n\nIn 1973 Oregon became the first state to decriminalize cannabis, reducing the penalty for up to one ounce to a $100 fine. Other states were reluctant to follow, however, in part due to influence from the Nixon administration which staunchly opposed such reforms. Decriminalization efforts were bolstered by Nixon's resignation in August 1974, however, ushering in the Ford administration and a more tolerant view toward cannabis from the White House. The November 1974 election also brought a wave of new Democrats to state legislatures across the country.\n\nIn 1975 a federal committee examined the use of cannabis and other drugs in America, building upon the findings of the Shafer Commission three years earlier. Although the committee – the Domestic Council Drug Abuse Task Force – did not advocate decriminalization outright, it did recommend that attention be shifted to more harmful drugs (such as heroin), and concluded that cannabis was the \"least serious\" drug problem facing the nation. Also in 1975, congressional hearings were held on decriminalizing cannabis for the first time. As these developments provided momentum to reform efforts, a total of five more states (Alaska, Maine, Colorado, California, and Ohio) decriminalized cannabis in 1975.\n\nShortly after Alaska decriminalized in 1975, a ruling by the Supreme Court of Alaska effectively legalized cannabis in the state, in the case \"Ravin v. State\". The ruling stemmed from the 1972 arrest of Irwin Ravin, an Alaska resident who allowed himself to be caught possessing cannabis in order to challenge state law. At trial, Ravin's defense argued that the state constitution guaranteed a right to privacy, which extended to the use of cannabis in one's home. In May 1975 the state Supreme Court agreed, legalizing the use, possession, and cultivation of cannabis in amounts for personal use.\n\nIn the following years, decriminalization laws passed in Minnesota (1976), Mississippi (1977), New York (1977), North Carolina (1977), and Nebraska (1978). NORML was actively involved in helping to pass these laws, lobbying in support of legislation and paying for decriminalization proponents (including members of the Shafer Commission) to travel to various states to testify.\n\nDuring the 1970s various cities also passed decriminalization laws, such as Ann Arbor, Michigan in 1972 and Madison, Wisconsin in 1977. Additionally, San Francisco residents approved Proposition W in 1978, a non-binding measure directing city law enforcement to \"cease the arrest and prosecution of individuals involved in the cultivation, transfer, or possession of marijuana\". Mayor George Moscone was assassinated a few weeks later, however, and the initiative was subsequently disregarded.\n\nAs decriminalization efforts continued to progress during the 1970s, many supporters of reform – including Stroup himself – believed federal decriminalization was just around the corner. This optimism was particularly buoyed by the 1976 election of Jimmy Carter, who spoke out in favor of decriminalization during his presidential campaign (earning him the support of both Stroup and NORML). Carter was urged to speak in support of decriminalization by Peter Bourne, an Atlanta physician who grew close to Carter during his time as Georgia governor. Upon being elected president, Carter gave Bourne an office in the West Wing and the official title \"Special Assistant to the President for Drug Abuse\". From this position, Bourne continued to advocate for cannabis decriminalization, while also developing a close relationship with Stroup and NORML. In August 1977, the White House issued its first official position paper on drugs, which Stroup helped draft. Included in the paper was a call for up to one ounce of cannabis to be decriminalized at the federal level.\n\nBy the fall of 1977, the relationship between Bourne and Stroup had begun to sour. The Carter administration was providing helicopters to the government of Mexico, which were being used to eradicate cannabis crops by spraying the herbicide paraquat. Stroup argued that these crops could find their way into the U.S. and harm American consumers of the drug. Simultaneously, Stroup was growing frustrated that the administration was not doing more to support the decriminalization policies that it had previously championed. By March 1978 Stroup's anger had reached a boiling point, as Bourne and the administration continued to support paraquat spraying in the face of growing public opposition to the practice (and emerging evidence that it posed a serious health risk). Stroup decided to take matters into his own hands, contacting reporter Gary Cohn and informing him that Bourne had used cocaine at the annual Christmas party hosted by NORML a few months earlier. Although this information was not immediately published, in July 1978, when Bourne was in the midst of a scandal over writing an illegal prescription, the cocaine revelation came to light. Faced with two simultaneous scandals of illegal prescription-writing and drug use, Bourne resigned from his position.\n\nThe resignation of Peter Bourne was considered a significant blow for decriminalization proponents in a number of ways. First, there were no advisers pushing Carter to support decriminalization anymore, as Bourne's successor Lee Dogoloff was not particularly sympathetic to the cause. Also, the embarrassment of the Bourne scandal, along with allegations of drug use that had been made against other members of the administration, made decriminalization a much more politically sensitive topic that Carter thus sought to avoid. It was not just the Carter administration that had been damaged from the incident, however. Stroup's role in the scandal proved to be a major embarrassment for NORML, and by December 1978 led to his resignation, due to the anger and distrust that his actions had caused. The departure of Stroup also caused NORML to lose the support of some of its top donors, including its largest benefactor the Playboy Foundation.\n\nBy the end of 1970s, efforts to decriminalize cannabis had stalled at both the state and federal level. Although the fallout of the Bourne scandal played a significant role, there was another factor at play in bringing about this shift. A movement of anti-drug parent activists was rising up nationwide, galvanized by a spike in adolescent drug use and the wide availability of paraphernalia products for sale (some of which resembled children's toys). The movement sprang out of Atlanta in 1976, as a number of support groups were formed for parents concerned about teen drug use. The groups soon spread across the country, and subsequently turned attention to legislative affairs such as halting decriminalization efforts and passing anti-paraphernalia laws. The movement continued to grow as President Reagan took office in 1981, with first lady Nancy Reagan particularly involving herself in the cause. Efforts to decriminalize cannabis had quickly been stamped out for the foreseeable future.\n\nDuring the Reagan years, the federal war on drugs was significantly ramped up, and a number of states acted to increase penalties for drug crimes. Meanwhile, NORML struggled to regain the influence that it once held, as it dealt with significant decreases in funding and membership, and underwent frequent changes to organizational leadership. In 1985, part of NORML was split off to found the Drug Policy Foundation, which was then merged with the Lindesmith Center to become the Drug Policy Alliance in 2000. Members of NORML further split off in 1995 to found the Marijuana Policy Project.\n\nIn 1990, Alaska voters approved a ballot initiative to recriminalize cannabis, overriding the court decision that legalized cannabis 15 years earlier. Also in 1990, the Solomon–Lautenberg amendment was passed at the federal level, leading many states to further criminalize cannabis by enacting \"Smoke a joint, lose your license\" laws. These laws imposed mandatory driver's license suspensions for anyone committing a drug offense, even if no motor vehicle was involved. Many states have since acted to repeal such laws, but as of 2018 seven complying states still remained.\n\nAfter Nebraska decriminalized cannabis in 1978, no other state would follow for over two decades, until Nevada decriminalized in 2001. In subsequent years a number of major cities decriminalized cannabis or made enforcement of cannabis laws the lowest priority. Among the first major cities to pass such laws were Seattle (2003), Oakland (2004), Denver (2005), and San Francisco (2006). In the years that followed reform efforts continued to gain steam, with decriminalization laws passing in Massachusetts (2008), Connecticut (2011), Rhode Island (2012), Vermont (2013), the District of Columbia (2014), Maryland (2014), Missouri (2014), the U.S. Virgin Islands (2014), Delaware (2015), Illinois (2016), and New Hampshire (2017). As of 2018 thirteen states had decriminalization policies in effect, and an additional eight states have decriminalized that later legalized.\n\nPrior to 2012, ballot initiatives seeking to legalize cannabis were attempted in a number of states, but none succeeded. Among these attempts were California in 1972 (33% support), Oregon in 1986 (26%), Alaska in 2000 (41%), Nevada in 2002 (39%), Arizona in 2002 (43%), Alaska in 2004 (44%), Colorado in 2006 (46%), Nevada in 2006 (46%), and California in 2010 (47%).\n\nIn 2012, success was finally achieved for legalization advocates in the states of Washington and Colorado, when voters approved Initiative 502 and Amendment 64. In subsequent years, cannabis was legalized by ballot measure in Oregon (2014), Alaska (2014), the District of Columbia (2014), California (2016), Nevada (2016), Maine (2016), Massachusetts (2016), and Michigan (2018), and by an act of legislature in Vermont (2018) and the Northern Mariana Islands (2018). In all of these jurisdictions, commercial distribution of cannabis has been legalized except for Vermont and the District of Columbia. Personal cultivation of cannabis is allowed in all jurisdictions, except for Washington state. Public consumption and use by individuals under 21 are prohibited in all.\n\nAfter the first states legalized in 2012, uncertainty remained over how the federal government would respond. Seeking to clarify, the Justice Department issued the Cole Memorandum in August 2013, which specified eight conditions under which enforcement of federal law would be prioritized (such as distribution of cannabis to minors or diversion of cannabis across state borders). Aside from these situations, the memo generally allowed for the commercial distribution of cannabis in states where such activity has been legalized. The Cole memo was only a non-binding set of guidelines for federal prosecutors, however, and therefore did not carry the force of law.\n\nAlthough the Cole memo was largely adhered to by federal prosecutors, members of Congress sought the assurances that a legally binding act of legislation could provide. The McClintock–Polis amendment was hence introduced in the U.S. House (as an attachment to the CJS Appropriations Bill for fiscal year 2016) to prohibit the Justice Department from spending funds to interfere with the implementation of state cannabis laws (regarding both recreational and medical use). The McClintock–Polis amendment was narrowly defeated on June 3, 2015, by a vote of 206 to 222.\n\nThe Cole memo remained in effect until January 2018, when it was rescinded by Attorney General Jeff Sessions. The intended impact of the rescission was not immediately made clear, however, in regards to what kind of crackdown (if any) on the states would be forthcoming. In response to the memo's rescission, the STATES Act was introduced in Congress (upon consultation with President Trump) to enshrine into law protections that the Cole memo previously provided. President Trump confirmed to reporters his intent to sign the STATES Act should it be approved by Congress.\n\nIn 1972, President Richard Nixon commissioned the National Commission on Marijuana and Drug Abuse to produce an in-depth report on cannabis. The report, \"Marijuana: A Signal of Misunderstanding\", found cannabis prohibition constitutionally suspect and stated regardless of whether the courts would overturn prohibition of cannabis possession, the executive and legislative branches have a duty to obey the Constitution.\n\"It's a matter of individual freedom of choice\", said ACLU President Nadine Strossen in an interview. \"Does that mean they should do it? Not necessarily, not any more than somebody should smoke or drink or eat McDonald's hamburgers.\"\n\nMarijuana (cannabis) is an herb drug, which contains a very active component delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC). For thousands of years, it was used for medical purposes in many different parts of the world. Recent studies also agreed that THC had great potential benefits for medical purposes. A number of patients who have HIV, multiple sclerosis (MS), neuropathic chronic pain, and cancer were under medical marijuana treatment. The treatments could either be smoke on cannabis or oral preparations, which were synthetic THC and synthetic equivalent.\n\nAccording to Medical Uses of Marijuana (Cannabis sativa), patients with HIV reported that the drug reduced mixed neuropathic pain more significantly in comparison to other placebo drugs. They addressed that there was a minimum of 30% pain reduction when they were under smoked medical marijuana treatment. Furthermore, under the same type of treatment, most of the patients with multiple sclerosis showed dramatic improvements on their symptoms. After the treatment, their handwriting was much clearer and head tremor pain was less than the samples taken before the treatment. In addition, many patients that associated with chronic pain, multiple sclerosis were also under marijuana oral preparation treatment. Patients treated with dronabinol, a synthetic THC, reported that there was a 50% pain reduction compared to 30% that was experienced when given the placebo. Furthermore, cancer treatment involving chemotherapy also agreed that dronabinol had significant benefits on delaying nausea and vomiting for patients. However, medical marijuana treatments are not for everyone and it may cause adverse side effects for others. Overall, the potential long-term side effects of medical marijuana are not yet fully classified. As a result, further studies must carry out to fully understand the benefits as well as adverse psychiatric and medical side effects of the drug.\n\nMany proponents of cannabis decriminalization have argued that decriminalizing cannabis would largely reduce costs of maintaining the criminal justice and law enforcement systems, while legalizing cannabis to allow the cultivation and sale would generate a substantial amount of income from taxing cannabis sales.\n\nIn 2005, more than 530 distinguished economists called for the legalization of cannabis in an open letter to President Bush, Congress, Governors, and state legislatures. The endorsers included conservative economist Milton Friedman and two other Nobel Prize-winners.\n\nThe letter stated, among other things, \"We, the undersigned, call your attention to the attached report [which]... shows that marijuana legalization — replacing prohibition with a system of taxation and regulation — would save $7.7 billion per year in state and federal expenditures on prohibition enforcement and produce tax revenues of at least $2.4 billion annually if marijuana were taxed like most consumer goods. If, however, marijuana were taxed similarly to alcohol or tobacco, it might generate as much as $6.2 billion annually...\"\n\nWe therefore urge the country to commence an open and honest debate about marijuana prohibition. We believe such a debate will favor a regime in which marijuana is legal but taxed and regulated like other goods. At a minimum, this debate will force advocates of current policy to show that prohibition has benefits sufficient to justify the cost to taxpayers, foregone tax revenues, and numerous ancillary consequences that result from marijuana prohibition.\"\n\nThe report also projected the tax revenues from decriminalization, by state.\n\nOther arguments point out that the funds saved from cannabis decriminalization could be used to enforce laws for other, more serious and violent crimes.\n\nIn 1988, Michael Aldrich and Tod Mikuriya published \"Savings in California Marijuana Law Enforcement Costs Attributable to the Moscone Act of 1976\" in the \"Journal of Psychoactive Drugs\". The study estimated California saved almost one billion dollars in a twelve-year period between 1976 and 1988, as a result of the Moscone Act of 1976 that decriminalized cannabis.\n\nIn 2003, the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) published \"Economic Costs of Drug Abuse\", which stated without separately analyzing cannabis related costs, the United States was spending $12.1 billion on law enforcement and court costs, and $16.9 billion in corrections costs, totaling $29 billion.\n\nIn 2004, Scott Bates of the Boreal Economic Analysis & Research center prepared a study for Alaskans for Rights & Revenues entitled \"The Economic Implications of Marijuana Legalization in Alaska.\" The study estimated the Alaskan government was spending $25–30 million per year enforcing cannabis prohibition laws. The study found if the purchase of cannabis were to be taxed as a legal commodity, tax revenues would increase by about $10–20 million per year, making $35–50 million per year in funds available.\n\nIn 2006, a study by Jon Gettman entitled \"Marijuana Production in the United States\" was published in the \"Bulletin of Cannabis Reform\". The report states cannabis is the top cash crop in 12 states, is one of the top three cash crops in 30 states, and is one of the top five cash crops in 39 states. Gettman estimated the value of U.S. cannabis production at $35.8 billion, which is more than the combined value of corn and wheat. Furthermore, the report states according to federal estimates, eradication efforts have failed to prevent the spread of cannabis production, as cannabis production has increased tenfold in the past 25 years.\n\nIn 2006, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime released the 2006 World Drug Report, which stated the North American cannabis market is estimated to be worth anywhere from $10 billion to $60 billion annually. That same study also indicated that the mountainous regions in Appalachia, and the rural areas of the West Coast are ideal for growing cannabis. Allowing farmers there to grow cannabis openly would both provide jobs and reduce the need for expensive federal welfare payments to those areas, which are disproportionately dependent on welfare.\n\nIn 2006, a study by the University of California, Los Angeles found California has saved $2.50 for every dollar invested into Proposition 36, which decriminalized cannabis and other drug possession charges by allowing out patient treatment programs instead of incarceration. In the first year the proposition was enacted (2001), California reportedly saved $173 million, which is likely a result of fewer drug offenders in prison. In the five years after the program was enacted, 8,700 fewer people are in prison for drug offenses.\n\nSince cannabis is illegal in the United States, this policy has led to penalties for simple use and possession. Despite these penalties, users continue to find themselves in trouble with the law. The Connecticut Law Revision Commission made the following evaluation:\n\"(1) the costs of arresting and prosecuting marijuana offenders were significantly lower in states that had done away with criminal penalties for possessing small amounts; (2) there was a greater increase in marijuana use in states that continue to treat possession as crime than in states that treated it as a civil offense; (3) easing the penalties for marijuana did not lead to a substantial increase in the use of either alcohol or hard drugs.\"\n\nThe Drug Enforcement Administration has reported that cannabis sales and trafficking support violent criminal gangs. Proponents of fully decriminalizing cannabis to allow the regulated cultivation and sale of cannabis, including Law Enforcement Against Prohibition, argue that fully decriminalizing cannabis would largely decrease financial gains earned by gangs in black market cannabis sales and trafficking.\n\nA study in the \"Journal of Policy Analysis and Management\" by Mark Anderson and Daniel Reese indicated that increased marijuana use in California is a substitute for alcohol. This research showed that participants frequently choose marijuana over other substances. They reported that over 41 percent of the people said that they prefer to use marijuana instead of alcohol. Some of the main reasons for this substitute were 'less withdrawal', 'fewer side-effects' and 'better symptom management'.\n\nCalifornia Secretary of State's office said that on September 7, 2010 the beer lobby donated $10,000 to Public Safety First, a group which opposed the passage of Proposition 19 to legalize cannabis.\n\nThe Marijuana Policy Project argues that:\n\nCannabis has been subject to many studies over the past century. Studies acknowledge that cannabis can in rare cases cause adverse reactions, but is generally safer than any commonly consumed drug such as alcohol, tobacco and pharmaceuticals. In fact, in an article published in 'The Lancet' journal about the adverse health effects of non-medical cannabis use, Professors Hall and Degenhardt clearly stated that \"the public health burden of cannabis use is probably modest compared with that of alcohol, tobacco, and other illicit drugs.\" Psychopharmacologist David Nutt argues, though he is against full declassification, that the harm caused by cannabis is far less than that caused by alcohol or tobacco, which, if they were invented today \"would be illegal.\".\n\nSupporters of decriminalization argue that if cannabis were to be legalized it would reduce the amount of non violent offenders in prison making room for the incarceration of more violent offenders as well as easing the current strain that the large amount of cannabis possession cases have on the criminal justice system. They also propose that it would also save taxpayers the cost of incarceration for these non violent offenders.\n\nIn the 1970s, there were just under 200,000 criminals serving time in state and federal prisons and an upwards of 750,000 in local jails for marijuana related crimes. Today there are over 1.5 million Americans serving time in an institution. If marijuana was decriminalized, these numbers were further be reduced again to below 700,000 inmates and save the taxpayers billions of dollars per year.\n\nThe United States spends an estimated $68 billion per year on prisoners with a third of that number have been incarcerated for non-violent drug crimes including a sixth of those numbers as marijuana drug related offenses. A reduction in the prison population due to decriminalizing marijuana could save an average of $11.3 billion per year on courts, police, prison guards and other related expenses.\n\nStudies on decriminalization of marijuana in Portugal have indicated it to be a \"huge success\". Drug use rates in Portugal were found to be dramatically lower than the United States with decriminalization enacted.\n\nTeenage use of marijuana in the Netherlands where it is sold legally and openly is lower than in the United States.\n\nUruguay became the first country in the world to completely legalize marijuana.\n\nSome people are in favor of decriminalization and legalization of marijuana simply for the moral stance that individuals' freedom for property rights should be respected. This view is generally held in libertarian politics. This view is that regardless of any health effects of someone's lifestyle choice, if they are not directly harming anyone else or their property then they should be free to do what they want. Many people who support drug freedom policies may personally be strongly against drug use personally but still wants to protect the freedom of others to do so.\n\nIn order to effectively campaign to legalize recreational cannabis use millions of dollars have been spent to lobby for this reform. George Soros is a billionaire hedge fund manager that has spent over $25 million on marijuana reform efforts. In 2010 Soros wrote an op-ed in the \"Wall Street Journal\" citing the fact that African Americans are no more likely than other Americans to use marijuana but are far more likely to be arrested for possession.\n\nSoros efforts to reform marijuana laws were predated by fellow billionaire, the late Peter Lewis. Lewis was the former chairman of Progressive Insurance and died November 23, 2013. Lewis is considered to be the most high-profile billionaire backer of drug reform and the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML) estimated that Lewis had spent well over $40 million funding the cause since the 1980s. During the November 2012 election, he spent almost $3 million helping secure the passage of marijuana legalization bills in both Washington state and Massachusetts.\nThe list of capitalists who have joined Soros and Lewis in the cause of Marijuana reform include John Sperling, who is the founder of the University of Phoenix and George Zimmer who is the founder and former CEO of Men's Wearhouse. Sperling donated $70,000 to support marijuana law reform in Oregon, and Zimmer contributed $20,000 to advocate for marijuana decriminalization in California.\n\nThese capitalists have helped pave the way for a new type of business with special interests in the cannabis industry. The ArcView Group was founded in 2010 by Silicon Valley entrepreneurs and marijuana advocates Troy Dayton and Steve DeAngelo. Their company teams up angel investors with companies that produce cannabis products and it's been one of the major sources of startup revenue for cannabis-related companies. This company has contributed hundreds of thousands of dollars to educational reform groups like the Students for Sensible Drug Policy and a pro-legalization PAC run by the Marijuana Policy Project.\n\nThe ACLU takes a firm position that decriminalizing cannabis will keep tens of thousands of people from entering into the criminal justice system as police efforts result in both unnecessary arrests and the enforcement of marijuana laws wastes billions of tax payers' dollars. They affirm that removing criminal penalties for marijuana offenses will therefore reduce the U.S. prison population and more effectively protect the public and promote public health. One of the reasons that the ACLU has been such a strong supporter of drug decriminalization is that according to their research drug related arrests have largely driven America's incarceration rate to unacceptable levels. Drug offenders comprise over 500,000 of the more than 2 million people in America's prisons and jails, and drug offenses combined with failed drug tests account for a significant number of those returning to prison for parole and probation violations. Between 2001 and 2010, there were over 7 million pot arrests in the U.S. and of these arrests 88% were for simply having marijuana. These marijuana related arrests now account for over half of all drug related arrests in the United States. These arrests tend to be racially imbalanced as a black person is 3.73 times more likely to be arrested than a white person for marijuana related charges, despite research that suggests fairly equal usage rates between the two races. The ACLU is further troubled by the amount of money that is spent annually to enforce marijuana laws as they claim that over 3 billion dollars are spent every year by states to enforce marijuana regulation, while the drug's availability has not declined. The ACLU claims that over 50% of Americans support marijuana legalization and they are advocating for the legalization of Cannabis through the Criminal Law Reform Project. They believe that the resources that are spent on enforcing marijuana law could be better invested in our communities through education and job training.\n\nThe NAACP has taken a similar stance and has cited the same data used by the ACLU. The NAACP has been strong supporters of the Respect State Marijuana Laws Act – H.R. 1523 and has reached out to members of congress to get this act passed. This act is designed to decrease penalties for low-level marijuana possession and supports prohibiting federal enforcement of marijuana laws in states which have lesser penalties.\n\nThere are claims of historical evidence showing that a significant reason for marijuana ban by US government was political and racist in nature, aimed to suppress Black and Mexican minorities. A quote from 1934 newspaper\n\nMarihuana influences Negroes to look at white people in the eye, step on white men's shadows and look at a white woman twice.\n\nLoo, Hoorens, Hof and Kahan also talked about this issue in their book 'Cannabis policy, implementation and outcomes'. According to them, statistics show that controlling cannabis use leads in many cases to selective law enforcement, which increases the chances of arresting people from certain ethnicities. For example, while Blacks and Hispanics constitute about 20% of cannabis users in the US, they accounted for 58% of cannabis offenders sentenced under federal law in 1994.\n\nSince cannabis is still recognized as an illegal substance under federal law, each state has their own rules and regulations with regards to cannabis cultivation. As this is still a relatively new industry, there are challenges in formulating safety regulations; much discrepancy exists between state regulations and federal regulations with respect to legal agricultural practices. Since there are no federal regulations on pesticide use in cannabis cultivation, none are registered for use in the United States, and illegal pesticide use is common. Samples purchased by law enforcement in California, have for example detected pesticide residues present on cannabis product for sale to the public.  Workers risk exposure to THC, pesticides, and fertilizers through respiratory, dermal, and ocular pathways. One grower was reported to have developed pruritus and contact uticaria from simply handling the plants, after being tolerant to moderate use before. Other allergic reactions, such as asthma, rhinitis, conjunctivitis, and cutaneous symptoms have been reported. Workers are also at risk of overexposure to UV rays from lamps used, and overexposure to carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, and nitrogen oxides from devices used to promote cannabis growth. Cuts, nicks, and scrapes are also a risk during the harvest of cannabis buds. A survey completed by the CDPHE has found that while workers valued safety, 46% of them never received any training in safety procedures and protocols. Washington and Colorado have published valuable state guides with state regulations and best practices.\n\nPesticide Use: \"The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulates pesticide use on agricultural crops, but has not tested any pesticides for use on marijuana because it is still illegal at the federal level. Given what is known about the chemicals commonly used on marijuana plants, that means a potential public health hazard for the millions of people who smoke or consume marijuana, as well as those who work at the grow operations.\"\n\nAccording to a 2013 study published in the \"Journal of Toxicology\" that assessed quantities of pesticides marijuana smokers were exposed to, it was found that \"recoveries of residues were as high as 69.5% depending on the device used and the component investigated, suggesting that the potential of pesticide and chemical residue exposures to cannabis users is substantial and may pose a significant toxicological threat in the absence of adequate regulatory frameworks\". Marijuana also differs from other agricultural products in that it can not be rinsed with water as the product is traditionally dried or cured. \n\nThe following six pesticides are considered highly toxic but commonly used on marijuana crops:\n\n\nMyclobutanil is the active chemical compound in the pesticide Eagle 20EW, the use of which is prohibited in Colorado. However, Eagle 20EW is still a commonly used pesticide. The federal limit, set by the EPA, for the amount in myclobutanil residue on lettuce is 0.3 parts per million – yet the amount tested on marijuana in Denver has at times reached 23.83 parts per million.\n\nA complete list of pesticides allowed for use on cannabis in Colorado approved by the Colorado Department of Agriculture is available here, and for Washington state as approved by the Washington State Department of Agriculture is available here. \n\nEnergy Use: Indoor marijuana cultivation is highly energy intensive. It is estimated that the industry accounts for 1% of all the nation's electricity use, which is six times the amount the pharmaceutical industry consumes. In terms of emissions, it is estimated that fifteen million metric tons of carbon are produced by the industry annually. Legalization would require those in the industry to meet long standing statutes such as the Clean Air Act, as well as give the opportunity to states to enforce provisions on energy use through conditions of licensure. For example in the city of Boulder, Colorado, marijuana businesses are required to utilize renewable energy to offset 100% of their electricity consumption.\n\nEcosystem: A single mature marijuana plant can consume 23 liters of water a day, compared to 13 liters for a grape plant. Historically, many outdoor cultivators have used illegal river and lake diversions to irrigate crops. These diversions have led to dewatering of streams and rivers which is well documented in areas of Northern California. As with any other agricultural crop, increase in demand leads to increased clear cutting of forests which can increase erosion, habitat destruction, and river diversion. Legalization and subsequent regulation could mitigate such issues.\n\nIn 1985, Gabriel G. Nahas published \"Keep Off the Grass\", which stated that \"[the] biochemical changes induced by marijuana in the brain result in drug-seeking, drug taking behavior, which in many instances will lead the user to experiment with other pleasurable substances. The risk of progression from marijuana to cocaine to heroin is now well documented.\"\n\nIn 1995, Partnership for a Drug-Free America with support from the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) and the White House Office of Drug Control Policy launched a campaign against cannabis use citing a Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse (CASA) report, which claimed that cannabis users are 85 times more likely than non-cannabis users to try cocaine. However, an article published in \"The Activist Guide\" by John Morgan and Lynn Zimmer entitled \"Marijuana's Gateway Myth\", claims CASA's statistic is false. The article states:\n\nMultiple opponents of cannabis decriminalization have claimed increased cannabis use results in increased abuse of other illicit drugs. However, multiple studies have found no evidence of a correlation between cannabis use and the subsequent abuse of other illicit drugs.\n\nIn 1997, the Connecticut Law Revision Commission examined states that had decriminalized cannabis and found decriminalizing small amounts of cannabis has no effect on subsequent use of alcohol or \"harder\" illicit drugs. The study recommended Connecticut reduce cannabis possession of one ounce or less for adults age 21 and over to a civil fine.\n\nIn 1999, a study by the Division of Neuroscience and Behavioral Health at the Institute of Medicine entitled \"Marijuana and Medicine: Assessing the Science Base\", found no evidence of a link between cannabis use and the subsequent abuse of other illicit drugs on the basis of its particular physiological effect.\n\nIn December 2002, a study by RAND investigating whether cannabis use results in the subsequent use of cocaine and heroin was published in the British Journal of Addiction. The researchers created a mathematical model simulating adolescent drug use. National rates of cannabis and hard drug use in the model matched survey data collected from representative samples of youths from across the United States; the model produced patterns of drug use and abuse. The study stated:\n\nIn 2004, a study by Craig Reinarman, Peter D. A. Cohen, and Hendrien L. Kaal entitled \"The Limited Relevance of Drug Policy: Cannabis in Amsterdam and in San Francisco\", was published in the American Journal of Public Health. The study found no evidence that the decriminalization of cannabis leads to subsequent abuse of other illicit drugs. The study also found the mean age at onset of cannabis use and the mean age of cannabis users are both higher in Amsterdam than in San Francisco.\n\nIn 2006, the Karolinska Institute in Sweden used twelve rats to examine how adolescent use of cannabis affects subsequent abuse of other illicit drugs. The study gave six of the twelve \"teenage\" rats a small dose of THC, reportedly equivalent to one joint smoked by a human, every three days. The rats were allowed to administer heroin by pushing a lever and the study found the rats given THC took larger doses of heroin. The institute examined the brain cells in the rats and found THC alters the opioid system that is associated with positive emotions, which lessens the effects of opiates on rat's brain and thus causes them to use more heroin. Paul Armentano, policy analyst for NORML, claimed because the rats were given THC at the young age of 28 days, it is impossible to extrapolate the results of this study to humans.\n\nIn December 2006, a 12-year gateway drug hypothesis study on 214 boys from ages 10–12 by the American Psychiatric Association was published in the American Journal of Psychiatry. The study concluded adolescents who used cannabis prior to using other drugs, including alcohol and tobacco, were no more likely to develop a substance abuse disorder than subjects in the study who did not use cannabis prior to using other drugs.\n\nIn September 2010, a study from the University of New Hampshire examined survey data from 1,286 young adults who had attended Miami-Dade County Public Schools in the 1990s and found the association between teenage cannabis use and other illicit drug abuse by young adults was significantly diminished after controlling for other factors, such as unemployment. They found that after young adults reach age 21, the gateway effect subsides entirely.\n\nThe Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) has claimed that cannabis leads to increased crime in the unsourced pamphlet entitled \"Speaking Out Against Drug Legalization\"\n\nStudies have found no evidence of a link between cannabis usage and an increase in crime, but rather have found cannabis may decrease criminal behavior when under the influence.\nIn 1973, a report by the National Commission on Marijuana and Drug Abuse entitled \"Marijuana: A Signal of Misunderstanding\" found marijuana does not cause violent or aggressive behavior, but rather \"marijuana was usually found to inhibit the expression of aggressive impulses by pacifying the user, interfering with muscular coordination, reducing psychomotor activities and generally producing states of drowsiness lethargy, timidity and passivity.\"\n\nIn 2001, a report by David Boyum and Mark A.R. Kleiman entitled \"Substance Abuse Policy from a Crime-Control Perspective\" found the \"high\" from cannabis is unlikely to trigger violence and concluded:\n\nIn 2004, a study by Scott Bates from the Boreal Economic Analysis & Research center entitled \"The Economic Implications of Marijuana Legalization in Alaska\", was prepared for Alaskans for Rights & Revenues. The study found there was no link between cannabis use and criminal behavior.\n\nA 2014 study published in PLoS ONE found that not only did the legalization of Medical cannabis did not increase violent crime, but that a 2.4% reduction in homicide and assault was found for each year the law was in effect.\n\nThe Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) has claimed that cannabis decriminalization will lead to increased cannabis use and addiction in the un-sourced pamphlet entitled \"Speaking Out Against Drug Legalization\". The pamphlet states in 1979, after 11 states decriminalized private cannabis use, cannabis use among 12th grade students was almost 51 percent and in 1992, when stricter cannabis laws were put in place, the usage rate reduced to 22 percent. The pamphlet also states that when Alaska decriminalized cannabis in 1975, the cannabis use rate among youth eventually rose to twice the national average youth usage rate nationwide; even though the law did not apply to anyone under the age of 19, the pamphlet explains this is why Alaska re-criminalized cannabis in 1990. Save Our Society From Drugs (SOS) has also stated that decriminalizing cannabis will increase usage among teenagers, citing an increase in Alaskan youth cannabis usage when cannabis was decriminalized. However, cannabis use rose in all states in the 1970s, and the DEA does not say whether or not Alaska started out higher than the national average. Following decriminalization, Alaska youth had lower rates of daily use of cannabis than their peers in the rest of the US.\n\nIn 1972, President Richard Nixon commissioned the National Commission on Marijuana and Drug Abuse to produce an in-depth report on cannabis. The report, entitled \"Marijuana: A Signal of Misunderstanding\", reviewed existing cannabis studies and concluded that cannabis does not cause physical addiction.\n\nStudies conducted in Oregon, California, and Maine within a few years of decriminalization found little increase in cannabis use, compared to the rest of the country; \"The most frequently cited reasons for non-use by respondents was 'not interested,' cited by about 80% of non-users. Only 4% of adults indicated fear of arrest and prosecution or unavailability as factors preventing use.\"\n\nIn 1997, the Connecticut Law Revision Commission examined states that had decriminalized cannabis and found any increase in cannabis usage was less than the increase in states that have not decriminalized cannabis; furthermore, the commission stated \"the largest proportionate increase [of cannabis use] occurred in those states with the most severe penalties.\" The study recommended Connecticut reduce cannabis possession of 28.35 grams (one ounce) or less for adults age 21 and over to a civil fine.\n\nIn 1999, a study by the Division of Neuroscience and Behavioral Health at the Institute of Medicine entitled \"Marijuana and Medicine: Assessing the Science Base\", concluded \"there is little evidence that decriminalization of marijuana use necessarily leads to a substantial increase in marijuana use.\"\n\nIn 2001, a report by Robert MacCoun and Peter Reuter entitled \"Evaluating alternative cannabis regimes\", was published in the British Journal of Psychiatry. The report found there was no available evidence cannabis use would increase if cannabis were decriminalized.\n\nIn 2004, a study entitled \"The Limited Relevance of Drug Policy: Cannabis in Amsterdam and in San Francisco\", found strict laws against cannabis use have a low impact on usage rates.\n\nStudies conducted following the legalization of cannabis in Washington and Colorado show that driving under the effects of marijuana increases a driver's likelihood of getting in accident by 100% in comparison to sober drivers. They also suggest that increased use will lead to higher workplace accidents, with employees who tested positive for cannabis being 55% more likely to get in an accident, and 85% more likely to get injured on the job.\n\nIn a \"Huffington Post\" interview, Mark Kleiman, the \"Pot Czar\" of Washington state, said he was concerned that the National Cannabis Industry Association would favor profits over public health. He also said that it could become a predatory body like the lobbying arms of the tobacco and alcohol industries. Kleiman said: \"The fact that the National Cannabis Industry Association has hired itself a K Street suit [lobbyist] is not a good sign.\"\n\nSeveral U.S.-based advocate groups seek to modify the drug policy of the United States to decriminalize cannabis. These groups include Law Enforcement Against Prohibition, Students for Sensible Drug Policy, The Drug Policy Alliance, the Marijuana Policy Project, NORML, Coalition for Rescheduling Cannabis, and Americans for Safe Access. There are also many individual American cannabis activists, such as Jack Herer, Paul Armentano, Edward Forchion, Jon Gettman, Rob Kampia, and Keith Stroup; Marc Emery, a well-known Canadian activist, has supported cannabis activism in the U.S. among other countries by donating money earned from \"Cannabis Culture\" magazine and Emeryseeds.com.\n\nIn 1997, the Connecticut Law Revision Commission recommended Connecticut reduce cannabis possession of one ounce or less for adults age 21 and over to a civil fine. In 2001, the New Mexico state-commissioned Drug Policy Advisory Group stated that decriminalizing cannabis \"will result in greater availability of resources to respond to more serious crimes without any increased risks to public safety.\"\n\nA few places in California have been advocating cannabis decriminalization.\nOn November 3, 2004, Oakland passed Proposition Z, which makes \"adult recreational marijuana use, cultivation and sales the lowest [city] law enforcement priority.\" The proposition states the city of Oakland must advocate to the state of California to adopt laws to regulate and tax cannabis. On November 7, 2006, Santa Cruz passed Measure K, which made cannabis the lowest priority for city law enforcement. The measure requests the Santa Cruz City Clerk send letters annually to state and federal representatives advocating reform of cannabis laws. On June 5, 2007, Mendocino County Board of Supervisors voted 4-1 to send a letter in support of the legalization, regulation, and taxation of cannabis to state and federal legislators, and the President of United States.\n\nRon Paul, a former Texas Congressman and 2008 Presidential Candidate, stated at a rally in response to a question by a medical cannabis patient that he would \"never use the federal government to force the law against anybody using marijuana.\" In his book, \"\" he writes, \"Regardless of where one stands on the broader drug war, we should all be able to agree on the subject of medical marijuana. Here, the use of an otherwise prohibited substance has been found to relieve unbearable suffering in countless patients. How can we fail to support liberty and individual responsibility in such a clear cut case? What harm does it do to anyone else to allow fellow human beings in pain to find the relief they need?\" He is also the cosponsor of the Personal Use of Marijuana by Responsible Adults Act of 2008.\n\nMike Gravel, a former U.S. senator from Alaska and 2008 presidential candidate, responded to a caller on a C-SPAN program asking about cannabis and the drug war, he stated \"That one is real simple, I would legalize marijuana. You should be able to buy that at a liquor store.\"\n\nDennis Kucinich, a U.S. representative from Ohio and 2008 presidential candidate, has been an advocate of cannabis legalization. During Kucinich's 2004 presidential campaign, the following was posted on Kucinich's official campaign web site.\nSome members of religious organizations, even while not necessarily being in favor of marijuana consumption, have also spoken in favor of reform, due to medical reasons, or the social costs of enforcement and incarceration. For instance, Revered Samuel Rodriguez of National Hispanic Christian Leadership Conferences stated that \"laws that prohibit marijuana affect the minorities significantly and hence should be reconsidered.\" Religious groups uphold that marijuana does not harm as much as alcohol does and thus legalizing it for medicinal usage would not be harmful to the economy.\n\nIn 1974 Dr Robert DuPont began to publicly support decriminalization of cannabis, seeing cannabis as a health problem. But when DuPont left government he changed his mind and declared that \"decriminalization is a bad idea\". Robert DuPont is still an active opponent of decriminalization of cannabis.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5120089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5120089", "title": "Dempsey (dog)", "text": "Dempsey (dog)\n\nDempsey (ca. 1986 - 2003) was a female American Pit Bull Terrier who was the subject of a high-profile challenge to the British Dangerous Dogs Act 1991. She was owned by Dianne Fanneran and lived in London.\n\nWhile being walked one evening in April 1992, muzzled and kept on a leash in accordance with the law, she began acting sick and her muzzle was removed, allegedly to allow her to vomit.\n\nTwo passing police officers noted the unmuzzled dog and charged the caretaker under the Dangerous Dogs Act. Three months later, at Ealing Magistrates' Court, Dempsey was ordered to be euthanised for failing to be muzzled in a public place. \n\nAppeals took three years before the Crown Court, the High Court and the House of Lords, during which time the media covered the story, not least Auberon Waugh in his \"Way of the World\" column in \"The Daily Telegraph.\" Animal rights activist Brigitte Bardot offered the dog sanctuary at her home in France, to avoid British law.\n\nThe case was dismissed in November 1995 on a legal technicality, as it emerged that Dempsey's owner, not involved in the original incident, was unaware that the court hearing was taking place. This legal loophole meant the case was thrown out.\n\nDempsey was reprieved and died at the age of 17 in 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "38830391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38830391", "title": "Discovery Offices", "text": "Discovery Offices\n\nDiscovery Offices (डिस्कवरी कार्यालये in Marathi) is a 50-storey, office skyscraper located on the land previously owned by Nirmal Lifestyles Mall, which is a shopping mall in Mulund, Mumbai, India and is situated on L.B.S Marg and Mulund-Goregaon Link Road Crossing Square near the Nirmal Lifestyles Mall. It is one of the first supertall buildings in India to achieve a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Platinum rating for environmental sustainability from Green Building Council. It is a 50-floor skyscraper used for commercial offices and is being built by Nirmal Construction Pvt Ltd. The architect and structural engineering company creating Discovery Offices is the Indian architecture firm Hafeez Contractor. Nirmal Construction Pvt Ltd has made a contract with Discovery Communications to construct one of India's first supertall skyscrapers to achieve a LEED Platinum rating for environmental sustainability. It will become one of the tallest office buildings in India if completed on schedule.\n\nThe Discovery Offices towers lean in opposite directions (five degrees from center) adjacent. It is the tallest building in Mulund and also the tallest building in Eastern Suburbs under construction and, when completed, it will have a total height of and a total floor area of . Construction began on 1 March 2011 and is estimated to finish on 1 March 2015. But as of 2013 it is scheduled to complete on 1 March 2016, a delay caused by local authorities and technical problems. The total cost of The Discovery Offices towers is estimated at around .\n\nDiscovery Offices construction began construction on 1 March 2011 and is estimated to complete on 1 March 2015. The design was changed two times before the final design was decided upon.\n\nDiscovery Offices is a skyscraper located on the land previously owned by Nirmal Lifestyles Mall which is a Shopping Mall in Mulund, Mumbai and is situated on L.B.S Marg and Mulund-Goregaon Link Road Crossing Square near the Nirmal Lifestyles Mall. Its land was used as the main parking lot for the Nirmal Lifestyles Mall from 2002 to 2010. On 1 March 2011 the ground breaking ceremony took place and the construction of the Discovery Offices began.\n\nDiscovery Offices is situated on L.B.S Marg and Mulund-Goregaon Link Road Crossing Square near the Nirmal Lifestyles Mall. It is about 7 km from Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport. It is situated in Mulund which is a developing area and has well planned civic amenities and world class planned infrastructure. The reason to construct the Discovery Offices in this area was mainly because it is an upcoming deed area of Mumbai. However, Mulund lacks world class commercial offices and has very few types of offices.\n\nThe Discovery Offices towers lean in opposite directions (five degrees from center) adjacent. It is a 50 Floors Skyscrapers used for Commercial Office and it is being build by Nirmal Construction Pvt Ltd.Discovery Offices architect is an Indian famous architect firm Hafeez Contractor who is also its Structural Engineers. Nirmal Construction Pvt Ltd has mad a contract with Discovery Communications to construct one of the India's First supertall Skyscrapers to achieve a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design Platinum rating for environmental sustainability. It is one of the India's Most Eco-Friendly Design supertall Building. It is the tallest building in Mulund and also the tallest building in Eastern Suburbs (Mumbai) under construction and when completed. It has a total height of and a total floor area of . The construction started on the begin early in 1 March 2011 and is estimated to complete on 1 March 2015. The Discovery Offices towers has a normally ceiling height of . Its first 10 floors will be used as Car Parking floors, and the remaining 40 floors from 11th floor to 50th floor will be used as commercial office and ground will be used as a grand lobby and for also other spaces. It will house a total unit of 470 office units, which will range from . The total cost of the Discovery Offices towers is estimated is around .\n\nThe Discovery Offices towers has amenities like Discovery gym with steam/sauna, landscape garden with jogging track, conference halls, mini food court, 24x7 security, etc. It also has eco-friendly design features solar energy for common area, rainwater harvesting, waste water treatment, large windows for natural light, potable water in taps, etc.\n\nThe design of the building makes it environmentally friendly, using technologies such as floor-to-ceiling insulated glazing to contain heat and maximize natural light, and an automatic daylight dimming system. The tower also features a greywater system, which captures rainwater for reuse. Nirmal Construction Pvt Ltd. states that the building is made largely of recycled and recyclable materials. Air entering the building is filtered, as is common, but the air exhausted is cleaned as well. The Discovery Offices Building is one of the first supertall in India to achieve a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design Platinum rating for environmental sustainability a Platinum (LEED) Certification from Green Building Council.\n\nThe Discovery Offices Building is constructed using a concrete manufactured with slag, a byproduct of blast furnaces. The mixture used in the tower concrete is 55% cement and 45% slag. The use of slag cement reduces damage to the environment by decreasing the amount of cement needed for the building, which in turn lowers the amount of carbon dioxide greenhouse gas produced through the normal cement manufacturing process. Each ton of regular cement produced creates about one ton of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. Temperature control and the production of some of its energy are accomplished in an environmentally friendly manner for the tower. Insulated glazing reduces thermal loss, lowering energy consumption and increasing transparency. Carbon dioxide sensors signal increased fresh air ventilation when elevated levels of carbon dioxide are detected in the building.Conditioned air for the occupants is provided by multiple air column units located in the tenant space that deliver air into a raised access floor plenum. This underfloor air system provides users with the ability to control their own space temperature as well as improving the ventilation effectiveness. When building churn occurs, workstation moves can be performed more easily with lower cost and less product waste. The cooling system produces and stores ice during off-peak hours, and allows the ice to melt to help cool the building during peak load, similar to the ice batteries in the 1995 Hotel New Otani in Tokyo, Japan. Ice batteries have been used since absorption chillers first made ice commercially available 150 years ago, before the invention of the electric light bulb.\n\nWater conservation features in the tower include waterless urinals, which are estimated to save of water per year and reduce CO emissions by per year. The tower has a 4.6-megawatt cogeneration plant, which provides part of the base-load energy requirements. Onsite power generation reduces the significant electrical transmission losses that are typical of central power production plants. Some of its other Eco-Friendly Design Features include's Solar energy for common area, Rain water harvesting, Waste water treatment, Large windows for natural light, Potable water in taps, etc.\n\nDiscovery Offices Construction Started on begin early in 1 March 2011 and is Estimated to complete on 1 March 2015. Its architect Design was changed two times before coming to the finale design. But as of 2013 it Scheduled to complete on 1, march, 2016 a delayed caused due to local authorities and technical problems.\n\n"}
{"id": "16721737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16721737", "title": "Economic partnership agreement", "text": "Economic partnership agreement\n\nAn economic partnership agreement is an economic arrangement that eliminates barriers to the free movement of goods, services, and investment between countries. This agreement can be considered an intermediate step between free trade area and single market in the process of economic integration. Economic partnerships are sometimes described as \"high standard\" variants of free trade agreements.\n\nOne example is the Japan-Mexico Economic Partnership Agreement.\n"}
{"id": "3786959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3786959", "title": "Equitable remedy", "text": "Equitable remedy\n\nEquitable remedies are judicial remedies developed by courts of equity from about the time of Henry VIII to provide more flexible responses to changing social conditions than was possible in precedent-based common law.\nEquitable remedies were granted by the Court of Chancery in England, and remain available today in most common law jurisdictions. In many jurisdictions, legal and equitable remedies have been merged and a single court can issue either, or both, remedies. Despite widespread judicial merger, the distinction between equitable and legal remedies remains relevant in a number of significant instances. Notably, the United States Constitution's Seventh Amendment preserves the right to a jury trial in civil cases over $20 to cases \"at common law\".\n\nThe distinction between types of relief granted by the courts is due to the courts of equity, such as the Court of Chancery in England, and still available today in common law jurisdictions. Equity is said to operate on the conscience of the defendant, so an equitable remedy is always directed at a particular person, and that person's knowledge, state of mind and motives may be relevant to whether a remedy should be granted or not.\n\nEquitable remedies are distinguished from \"legal\" remedies (which are available to a successful claimant as of right) by the discretion of the court to grant them. In common law jurisdictions, there are a variety of equitable remedies, but the principal remedies are:\n\nThe two main equitable remedies are injunctions and specific performance, and in casual legal parlance references to equitable remedies are often expressed as referring to those two remedies alone. Injunctions may be mandatory (requiring a person to do something) or prohibitory (stopping them doing something). Specific performance requires a party to perform a contract, for example by transferring a piece of land to the claimant. The award of specific performance requires that the two following criteria must be satisfied: (i) Common law damages must be an inadequate remedy. For instance, when damages for a breach of contract found in favour of a third party are an inadequate remedy. (ii) No bars to equitable relief prevent specific performance. A bar to relief arises for example, when the court's continuous supervision of the defendant is not feasible.\n\nAn account of profits is usually ordered where payment of damages would still leave the wrongdoer unjustly enriched at the expense of the wronged party. However, orders for an account are not normally available as of right, and only arise in certain circumstances.\n\nRescission and rectification are remedies in relation to contracts (or, exceptionally, deeds) which may become available.\n\nConstructive trusts and tracing remedies are usually used where the claimant asserts that property has been wrongly appropriated from them, and then either (i) the property has increased in value, and thus they should have an interest in the increase in value which occurred at their expense, or (ii) the property has been transferred by the wrongdoer to an innocent third party, and the original owner should be able to claim a right to the property as against the innocent third party.\n\nEquitable liens normally only arise in very specific factual circumstances, such as unpaid vendor's lien.\n\nEquitable principles can also limit the granting of equitable remedies. This includes \"he who comes to equity must come with clean hands\" (that is, the court will not assist a claimant who is himself in the wrong or acting for improper motives), laches (equitable remedies will not be granted if the claimant has delayed unduly in seeking them), \"equity will not assist a volunteer\" (meaning that a person cannot litigate against a settlor without providing the appropriate consideration, for example, Money) and that equitable remedies will not normally be granted where damages would be an adequate remedy. The most important limitation relating to equitable remedies is that an equitable remedy will not lie against a bona fide purchaser for value without notice.\n\nDamages can also be awarded in \"equity\" as opposed to \"at law\", and in some legal systems, by historical accident, interest on damages can be awarded on a compound basis only on equitable damages, but not on damages awarded at law. However, most jurisdictions either have ended this anachronism, or evinced an intention to do so, by modernising legislation. Two versions of the legislation are in force in Australian jurisdiction with one version placing emphasis on \"commission of a wrongful act\" and the other omits the reference to wrongdoing.\n\nThe classification of a remedy as equitable has various consequences. For example, equitable remedies may be enforced by contempt, and equitable remedies are subject to equitable defenses.\n\n"}
{"id": "9966923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9966923", "title": "European Payment Order", "text": "European Payment Order\n\nThe European Payment Order (EPO) is a system of cross-border debt-collecting methods established on December 11, 2006 that is used in the European Union.\n\nThe European Payment Order is only available for cross-border cases. It allows for citizens and businesses to use a simple method to enforce uncontested payments. Small businesses in particular should benefit from the EPO since it provides a simple, cost-effective method of collecting payments from a multinational group of customers.\n\nLocal debt-recovering systems work alongside the European Payment Order. Creditors can choose which system they wish to use. One of the biggest benefits of using the European Payment Order is that it is specifically designed to work in multinational scenarios.\n\n"}
{"id": "10905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10905", "title": "Family law", "text": "Family law\n\nFamily law (also called matrimonial law or the \"law of domestic relations\") is an area of the law that deals with family matters and domestic relations.\n\nSubjects that commonly fall under a nation's body of family law include:\n\nThis list is not exhaustive and varies depending on jurisdiction.\n\nIssues may arise in family law where there is a question as to the laws of the jurisdiction that apply to the marriage relationship or to custody and divorce, and whether a divorce or child custody order is recognized under the laws of another jurisdiction. For child custody, many nations have joined the Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction in order to grant recognition to other member states' custody orders and avoid issues of parental kidnapping.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "448906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=448906", "title": "Green wall", "text": "Green wall\n\nA green wall is a wall partially or completely covered with greenery that includes a growing medium, such as soil or a substrate. Most green walls also feature an integrated water delivery system. A green wall is also known as a living wall or vertical garden. It provides insulation to keep the building's inside temperature consistent.\n\nIt is useful to distinguish green \"walls\" from green \"facades\". Green walls have growing media supported on the face of the wall (as described below), while green facades have soil only at the base of the wall (in a container or in ground) and support climbing plants on the face of the wall to create the green, or vegetated, facade.\n\nGreen walls may be indoors or outside, freestanding or attached to an existing wall, and come in a great variety of sizes.\n\nStanley Hart White, a Professor of Landscape Architecture at the University of Illinois patented a \"vegetation-Bearing Architectonic Structure and System\" in 1938, though his invention did not progress beyond prototypes in his backyard in Urbana, Illinois.\n\nPatrick Blanc, a botanist specialized in tropical forest undergrowth, worked with architect Adrien Fainsilber and engineer Peter Rice implementing the first successful large indoors green wall in 1986 at the Cité des Sciences et de l'Industrie in Paris. In 2005, he created the landmark vegetal exterior wall of the administrative building of the Musée du quai Branly with architect Jean Nouvel. \n\nGreen walls subsequently saw a rapid surge in popularity. Of the 61 large-scale outdoor green walls listed in an online database provided by greenroof.com, 80% were constructed in or after 2009 and 93% in or after 2007.\nMany iconic green walls have been constructed by institutions and in public places such as airports and are now becoming common.\n\nAs of 2015, the largest green wall covers 2,700 square meters (29,063 square feet or more than half an acre) and is located at the Los Cabos International Convention Center, a building designed by Mexican architect Fernando Romero for the 2012 G-20 Los Cabos summit.\n\nGreen walls are often constructed of modular panels that hold a growing medium and can be categorized according to the type of growth media used: loose media, mat media, and structural media.\n\nLoose medium walls tend to be \"soil-on-a-shelf\" or \"soil-in-a-bag\" type systems. Loose medium systems have their soil packed into a shelf or bag and are then installed onto the wall. These systems require their media to be replaced at least once a year on exteriors and approximately every two years on interiors. Loose soil systems are not well suited for areas with any seismic activity. Most importantly, because these systems can easily have their medium blown away by wind-driven rain or heavy winds, these should not be used in applications over 8 feet high. There are some systems in Asia that have solved the loose media erosion problem by use of shielding systems to hold the media within the green wall system even when soil liquefaction occurs under seismic load. In these systems, the plants can still up-root themselves in the liquified soil under seismic load, and therefore it is required that the plants be secured to the system to prevent them from falling from the wall. Loose-soil systems without physical media erosion systems are best suited for the home gardener where occasional replanting is desired from season to season or year to year. Loose-soil systems with physical media erosion systems are well suited for all green wall applications.\n\nMat type systems tend to be either coir fiber or felt mats. Mat media are quite thin, even in multiple layers, and as such cannot support vibrant root systems of mature plants for more than three to five years before the roots overtake the mat and water is not able to adequately wick through the mats. The method of reparation of these systems is to replace large sections of the system at a time by cutting the mat out of the wall and replacing it with new mat. This process compromises the root structures of the neighboring plants on the wall and often kills many surrounding plants in the reparation process. These systems are best used on the interior of a building and are a good choice in areas with low seismic activity and small plants that will not grow to a weight that could rip the mat apart under their own weight over time. It is important to note that mat systems are particularly water inefficient and often require constant irrigation due to the thin nature of the medium and its inability to hold water and provide a buffer for the plant roots. This inefficiency often requires that these systems have a water re-circulation system put into place at an additional cost. Mat media are better suited for small installations no more than eight feet in height where repairs are easily completed.\n\nSemi-open cell polyurethane sheet media utilising an egg crate pattern has successfully been used in recent years for both outdoor roof gardens and vertical walls. The water holding capacity of these engineered polyurethanes vastly exceeds that of coir and felt based systems. Polyurethanes do not biodegrade, and hence stay viable as an active substrate for 20+ years. Vertical wall systems utilising polyurethane sheeting typically employ a sandwich construction where a water proof membrane is applied to the back, the polyurethane sheeting (typically two sheets with irrigation lines in between) is laid and then a mesh or anchor braces/bars secure the assembly to the wall. Pockets are cut into the face of the first urethane sheet into which plants are inserted. Soil is typically removed from the roots of any plants prior to insertion into the urethane mattress substrate. A flaked or chopped noodle version of the same polyurethane material can also be added to existing structural media mixes to boost water retention.\n\nStructural media are growth medium \"blocks\" that are not loose, nor mats, but which incorporate the best features of both into a block that can be manufactured into various sizes, shapes and thicknesses. These media have the advantage that they do not break down for 10 to 15 years, can be made to have a higher or lower water holding capacity depending on the plant selection for the wall, can have their pH and EC's customized to suit the plants, and are easily handled for maintenance and replacement.\n\nThere is also some discussion involving \"active\" living walls. An active living wall actively pulls or forces air through the plants le quality to the point that the installation of other air quality filtration systems can be removed to provide a cost-savings. Therefore, the added cost of design, planning and implementation of an active living wall is still in question. With further research and UL standards to support the air quality data from the living wall, building code may one day allow for our buildings to have their air filtered by plants.\n\nThe area of air quality and plants is continuing to be researched. Early studies in this area include NASA studies performed in the 1970s and 1980s by B. C. Wolverton. There was also a study performed at the University of Guelph by Alan Darlington. Other research has shown the effect the plants have on the health of office workers.\n\nGreen walls are found most often in urban environments where the plants reduce overall temperatures of the building. \"The primary cause of heat build-up in cities is insolation, the absorption of solar radiation by roads and buildings in the city and the storage of this heat in the building material and its subsequent re-radiation. Plant surfaces however, as a result of transpiration, do not rise more than 4–5 °C above the ambient and are sometimes cooler.\"\n\nLiving walls may also be a means for water reuse. The plants may purify slightly polluted water (such as greywater) by absorbing the dissolved nutrients. Bacteria mineralize the organic components to make them available to the plants. A study is underway at the Bertschi School in Seattle, Washington, using a GSky Pro Wall system, however, no publicly available data on this is available at this time.\n\nLiving walls are particularly suitable for cities, as they allow good use of available vertical surface areas. They are also suitable in arid areas, as the circulating water on a vertical wall is less likely to evaporate than in horizontal gardens.\n\nThe living wall could also function for urban agriculture, urban gardening, or for its beauty as art. It is sometimes built indoors to help alleviate sick building syndrome.\n\nLiving walls are also acknowledged for remediation of poor air quality, both to internal and external areas. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "36914850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36914850", "title": "Gunnar Beck", "text": "Gunnar Beck\n\nGunnar Beck is a German EU and constitutional lawyer, legal philosopher and publicist. \n\nGunnar Beck read politics, philosophy, law and economics in Germany and Great Britain and completed his doctorate in political and legal philosophy under the supervision of Professor Sir Isaiah Berlin in 1996 at Nuffield College, Oxford. He subsequently worked for the international law firm Herbert Smith and as Deputy Legal Adviser (EU law) at the House of Commons of the United Kingdom Parliament. He currently combines academic work with legal practice as a specialist EU lawyer. He is a barrister specialising in EU law at 1 Essex Court (Chambers of The Rt Hon Sir Tony Baldry), Temple, London, was appointed Professor of Law at the University of Sussex in 2016 and has been teaching EU law at SOAS University of London since 2005. He previously taught EU law, political philosophy and international relations at Oxford University and the LSE.\n\nIn \"Fichte and Kant on Freedom, Rights, and Law\" (2008) Beck argues that, contrary to the received view, Kant fails to demonstrate how political liberalism is logically connected and deduced from the doctrine of autonomy, whilst Fichte anticipates many of Hegel’s criticisms of Kant. Starting from a notion of the self which is constituted inter-subjectively Fichte ultimately rejects a notion of individual rights as absolute standards and constraints on legitimate political action. If the self is constituted inter-subjectively and develops historically in interaction with others, rights become the adaptable enabling conditions of moral, cultural and political progress. Fichte’s theory of rights, Beck argues in the Chinese edition to his book, is particularly relevant to sophisticated non-liberal societies like China where the ruling party has long rebutted Western criticism of human rights violations on the grounds that the ‘first right’ of every Chinese which trumps all others, is the right to a basic standard of living. For Fichte the first and fundamental right of all individuals is the right to the conditions of human perfectibility which include certain propitious material or social living conditions which are essential to basic human flourishing in circumstances of limited benevolence. In common with Hegel Fichte further thought that altruism and social solidarity could flourish only in communities based on common culture and shared historical destiny. Fichte may therefore not only be regarded as one of the fathers of nationalism but likewise merits attention as an early advocate of the doctrine that socialism is only possible in one country and that, in that sense, socialism is closely linked to nationalism. As a pre-Revolutionary thinker, by contrast, Kant, unlike Fichte or Hegel, never accommodated the notion of the nation as a culturally and linguistically defined entity within his broader moral and political theory, although his later writings on history are more sociologically and anthropologically sensitive than commonly acknowledged.\n\nIn \"The Legal Reasoning of the Court of Justice of the EU\" (2013) Beck argues that the problem of legal uncertainty is ultimately incapable of judicial or even doctrinal resolution. At the primary level of legal rules Beck identifies three basic sources of legal uncertainty: linguistic vagueness, value pluralism and norm conflict, and precedent instability. Primary legal uncertainty gives rise to the need for judicial interpretation. Judges do not openly decide in accordance with political or personal preference; they are expected to justify their decision by reference to interpretative \"topoi\" or arguments, which fall into three main categories: linguistic, systemic and purposive, in addition to precedents. There is no overarching rule or formula governing the application of these \"topoi\", e.g. which type of argument prevails in which circumstances. Judges, in consequence, enjoy considerable discretion in the application of the available topoi and over which \"topos\" should enjoy primacy in which sets of circumstances.\n\nThe lack of any methodological certainty in the application of the interpretative criteria ultimately means the problem of legal uncertainty is incapable of complete resolution. As there is no agreed method of judicial reasoning, legal reasoning cannot be scientific but must remain \"heuristic\". Against the background of his general analysis of the nature and limits of legal reasoning Beck demonstrates that vagueness, norm conflict and precedent instability are pervasive features of European Union law. The whole second part of Beck’s book is devoted to an extensive review of the Court of Justice’s case law. Beck concludes that the Court resolves the high degree of legal uncertainty in a broadly \"communautaire\" or integrationist direction. The key to the Court of Justice’s restrained integrationism, according to Beck, is its cumulative interpretative approach by which it approaches interpretative problem from the combined perspective, and justifies its decisions in terms of the cumulative weight, of literal, systemic and purposive criteria. Purposive and especially meta-telelogical considerations assume greater weight in the Court of Justice’s legal reasoning than in the decisions of most higher national courts. The added weight given to teleology generally favours a more rather than less integrationist judicial response to most interpretative questions. In that sense the Court of Justice of the EU has been an important motor of EU integration, although Beck qualifies his conclusion in several respects: i. the EU treaties and secondary legislation are characterised by a high degree of vagueness and value pluralism which embody political compromises between member states whereby they effectively delegated key questions to the Court of Justice - such delegation of political questions to judicial authorities is dubious from a democratic point of view, ii. in areas of political and budgetary sensitivity the Court of Justice often shows limited or specific deference to member states on the very specific issues in the case, whilst endorsing a broadly integrationist general principle of law which affords for flexible application especially through the dummy standard of the proportionality principle, and iii. national constitutional courts often follow a similarly textually ‘creative’ and politically deferential interpretative approach in politically charged cases involving issues of EU integration or budgetary and social policy issues in which the political executive has invested considerable political capital. Legal reasoning, Beck concludes, is ordinary legal reasoning in extraordinary language, and judicial decision-making is subject not to rules, but to regularities – political as well as psychological, rhetorical no less than methodological regularities. Elsewhere, Beck has argued that for these reasons the rule of law always remains a 'fair weather phenomenon'. Where the Court of Justice of the EU differs from most other courts is in its communautaire predisposition to resolve most legal issues in a pro-integration direction, sometimes in direct defiance of the ordinary meaning of EU treaty and legislative provisions and frequently in direct opposition to the established rules of treaty interpretation contained in Art. 31 and 32 Vienna Convention on the Laws of Treaties.\nGunnar Beck has written widely on the legal and economic aspects of the euro crisis. For Beck the crisis has brought to the fore an unprecedented breakdown in the rule of law and representative democracy in post-WW II Europe, which is epitomized by the only thinly disguised political role played by central banks and the EU and national courts. Under its President Mario Draghi the European Central Bank, with the tacit support of eurozone governments, has openly disregarded the limits of its mandate which is confined to monetary policy. With its quantitative easing and extreme low interest rates policies the ECB incrementally expropriates savers and fuels asset price bubbles, corporate short-termism and the misallocation of capital within the financial and wider corporate sectors. For Beck the delegation of far-reaching political and economic policy-making functions to \"soi-disant\" independent institutions and central bankers who, in many cases, have longstanding links with leading investments banks notably Goldman Sachs, together with the hollowing out of democratic processes and judicial deference in the highest national and supra-national courts, are key features of oligarchic democracy which is rapidly becoming the established form of government in Western Europe and North America.\n\nBeck has also criticised the judicial response to the euro crisis. In a series of judgment the Court of Justice of the EU and the German Constitutional Court have upheld the establishment of a permanent euro zone financial bail-out fund by the member states and a multi-trillion government and corporate bond-buying programme by the European Central Bank which are contrary to Article 123 and 125 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). He argues that whilst there are many cases where treaties and legislation display a degree of linguistic uncertainty which grants de facto discretion to courts which is an undesirable but sometimes inevitable feature of law-making, Article 125 TFEU and Article 123 TFEU together with Council Regulation 3603/93 do not fall into this country. Art. 125 clearly prohibits the provision of mutual financial assistance amongst members of the euro zone or the establishment of aid mechanisms whereby one or more euro members assume liability for the debts of others, whilst Art. 123 in conjunction with Regulation 3603/93 was included in the Treaties to prevent the ECB from buying government bonds if such purchases may ease the refinancing conditions of indebted euro zone governments. In upholding the legality of both the establishment of a mutual financial assistance fund and the ECB's multi-trillion quantitative easing programme, the German Constitutional Court and the Court of Justice of the EU have exceeded the legitimate limits of judicial discretion which are defined by imprecision and vagueness in the underlying laws and adopted a contra legem interpretation of the Treaties, i.e. an interpretation which runs counter to the literal meaning of the Treaty. They have taken the crucial step from legitimate legal interpretation to judicial law-breaking.\nBeck who is an advocate of \"organic\" integration which should not have a pre-determined outcome, argues that the top-down approach to ‘ever closer union’ undermines self-government at every level of politics and reinforces the long-term trends towards electoral apathy and towards a debased consumer conception of the citizen. It reinforces many of the degenerative political and social trends in contemporary Western political societies, notably the susceptibility of governments to excessive and non-transparent lobbying, especially by the financial sector, the dismantlement of the post-war Western European model of the social market economy, and the erosion of traditional de-centralized and historically evolved foundations of social solidarity and the hollowing out of residual forms of representative democracy and meaningful political participation. Further EU integration will bring Western and Central Europe closer to the consumerist homogenization of the United States, but without the early self-reliance, dynamism and even idealism of the Americans.\n\nIn addition to his legal and political scholarship, Gunnar Beck provides legal advice and representation in matters of EU law. He has been involved in select recent EU General Court, Court of Justice and UK Supreme cases involving innovative EU legal points or the division of competences between national and Union law.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36326861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36326861", "title": "Independent foreclosure review", "text": "Independent foreclosure review\n\nAs part of a consent order with federal bank regulators, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) (independent bureaus of the U.S. Department of the Treasury), and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, fourteen mortgage servicers and their affiliates are identifying customers who were part of a foreclosure action on their primary residence between January 1, 2009 and December 31, 2010.\n\nThe Federal Reserve announced on April 9 that Rust Consulting would begin mailing out checks on April 12, 2013.\n\nOn April 25, 2013, Representative Elijah Cummings introduced legislation to create a monitor for the Independent Foreclosure Review: HR 1706, \"The Mortgage Settlement Monitoring Act of 2013\"\n\nThe Independent Foreclosure Review provides homeowners the opportunity to request an independent review of their foreclosure process. If the review finds that financial injury occurred because of errors or other problems during their home foreclosure process, the homeowners may receive compensation or other remedy.\n\nOn February 28, 2013, the OCC and the Federal Reserve announced a replacement program for 13 banks and servicers, while 3 of the original banks decided to keep the Independent Foreclosure Review Process. The replacement program includes US$3.6 billion in direct cash payments to homeowners and $5.7 billion in loss mitigation assistance intended to keep people in their homes.\n\nThe Independent Foreclosure Review was created in response to the Foreclosure Crisis of 2010 in an attempt to provide aid to homeowners who had either received their Notice of Default, or were in danger of foreclosure.\n\nOn April 13, 2011, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the Office of Thrift Supervision announced enforcement actions against 14 large residential mortgage servicers and two third-party vendors for unsafe and unsound practices related to residential mortgage servicing and foreclosure processing; customers of 27 mortgage servicers (listed below) may be eligible for compensation.\n\nThe third-party consultant assessed whether any errors, misrepresentations, or other deficiencies resulted in financial injury to borrowers. Where a borrower suffered financial injury as a result of such practices, the consent orders required remediation to be provided. During the review, customers could be contacted by mortgage servicers for additional information at the direction of the independent consultant.\n\nRequests for review had to be postmarked or submitted online by December 31, 2012.\n\nOn June 21, 2012, the OCC released its second interim report on the status of the Independent Foreclosure Review and actions required by consent orders issued in April 2011 to correct deficient mortgage servicing and foreclosure processes.\n\nOn June 21, 2012, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System released a financial remediation framework that provided examples of errors in foreclosures covered by the regulators' consent orders that require compensation or other remediation as directed in the regulators' April 2011 orders. The consultants use the framework to recommend remediation for financial injury identified during the Independent Foreclosure Review. The servicers prepare remediation plans based on the consultants' recommendations. The federal banking regulators had to approve each servicer's remediation plan. The framework helped ensure that similarly-situated borrowers receive similar treatment.\n\nTo be eligible, the mortgage must have been active in the foreclosure process between January 1, 2009, and December 31, 2010, the property securing the loan must have been the primary residence, and the mortgage must have been serviced by one of the following mortgage servicers:\n\nNote: Both Litton Loan Servicing (owned by Goldman Sachs) and Saxon Mortgage (owned by Morgan Stanley) also signed consent orders with regulators.\n\nThe OCC also released engagement letters that describe how the independent consultants, retained by the servicers, will conduct their file reviews and claims processes to identify borrowers who suffered financial injury as a result of deficiencies identified in the OCC's consent orders.\n\nThere have been allegations that the banks themselves have a heavy hand in the review process. News sources, which are citing e-mails, employee interviews and contracts, suggested that the biggest offenders—Bank of America, Wells Fargo, Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase—appeared to be conducting much of the review work themselves, compromising the independence of the review.\n\nYves Smith, in her financial blog Naked Capitalism, wrote a thorough analysis of the Independent Foreclosure Review, interviewing several former reviewers on the practices used both by Bank of America, and its review contractor Promontory Financial Group.\n\nHer findings showed, in her words:\n\n1. After extensive debriefing of Bank of America whistleblowers, we found overwhelming evidence that the bank engaged in certain abuses frequently, in some cases pervasively, in its servicing of delinquent mortgages.\n\n2. This settlement, as intended, was yet another significant bailout to predatory servicers.\n\n3. As we will demonstrate in later posts in this series, even making the most generous interpretation possible of the role played by Promontory, Promontory's review at Bank of America completely omitted significant categories of borrower harm that were explicitly discussed both in the OCC consent order and Promontory's engagement letter with Bank of America.\n\n4. The organizational design, the way the reviewers were managed, the elimination of areas of inquiry, and evidence of records tampering with Bank of America records all point to a multifaceted, if not necessarily well orchestrated, program to make sure as much damaging information as possible was not considered or minimized.\n\nThe payment structure can be found on the Federal Reserve site\nhttp://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/press/bcreg/bcreg20120621b2.pdf\n"}
{"id": "4537219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4537219", "title": "Joseph Schacht", "text": "Joseph Schacht\n\nJoseph Franz Schacht (15 March 1902 – 1 August 1969) was a British-German professor of Arabic and Islam at Columbia University in New York. He was the leading Western scholar on Islamic law, whose \"Origins of Muhammadan Jurisprudence\" (1950) is still considered a centrally important work on the subject. The author of many articles in the first and second editions of the \"Encyclopaedia of Islam\", Schacht also edited the second edition of \"The Legacy of Islam\" for the \"Legacy\" series of Oxford University Press and authored a textbook under the title \"An Introduction to Islamic Law\" (1964).\n\nSchacht was born into a Catholic family but, with a zeal for study, became at an early age a student in a Hebrew school. In Breslau and Leipizig he studied Semitic languages, Greek, and Latin, under professors including Gotthelf Bergsträßer. In 1925 he obtained his first academic position at the Albert-Ludwigs-Universität Freiburg in Breisgau. In 1927 he became there a professor extraordinarius, making him the youngest professor in all of Germany, and in 1929 a professor ordinarius of Semitic languages. In 1932 he was appointed a professor at the University of Königsberg. But in 1934, without being directly threatened or persecuted, Schacht, as a strong opponent of the Nazi regime, went to Cairo, where he taught until 1939 as a professor. At the outbreak of World War II in 1939, he happened to be in England, where he offered his services to the British government and worked for the BBC. In 1947 he became a British citizen.\n\nSchacht taught at Oxford University from 1946. In 1954 he moved to the Netherlands and taught at the University of Leiden. In the academic year 1957–1958, he taught at Columbia University, where, in 1959 he became a full professor of Arabic and Islamic studies. He remained at Columbia until his retirement in 1969 as professor emeritus.\n\nOne of Schacht's major contributions to the history of early Islam is the recognition that Hadith probably stems from those in whom the different traditions of the past converge, and this convergence Schacht describes as \"common link\". This concept was later used productively by many other orientalists.\n\nSchacht argued that Islamic law was not as classical Islamic jurisprudence taught, \nRather the law arose from historical development of three different \"sunnas\" — bodies of custom, rules and law — operating in parallel during the period of the Umayyad Caliphate. \nUnification of Islamic legal thought (so that only one sunna remained) occurred under the legal scholar Al-Shafi‘i (767-820), when the ahadith of Muhammad became pre-eminent (except for the Quran). The most important of the schools of Islamic law developed in Kufa in Mesopotamia, according to Schacht's research, and its legal precepts spread to other cities such as Medina.\"\n\nBeginning around 100 A.H. (720 CE), ahadith of Muhammad \"began to be fabricated\", forming the Islamic Sunnah as it is known today. While scholars recognized that many ahadith were false and attempted to weed these out with ʻilm al-ḥadīth, this was in vane as most if not all are inauthentic. According to Schacht, with the exception of \"a few modifications dictated by the Qur'an\", the Islamic \"Sunna\" is the same as the \"sunna\" of \"pre-Mohammed Arabia\". One example of the power of traditional law was that under the caliphate, theft was punished by flogging, even though the Qur'an had prescribed maiming/amputation.\n\nSchacht argues that in part the fabrication of ahadith came from \"a literary convention, which found particular favor in Iraq\", whereby authors/scholars would put their \"own doctrine or work under the aegis of an ancient authority.\" The ultimate prestigious \"ancient authority\" in this context was Muhammad and \"around 120 A.H.\" scholars in Kufa, \"followed in a few years by the Medinese\" began falsely ascribing \"their new doctrines back to earlier jurists\", and over time extended them back to Muhammad. Schacht also blames the religious fervor of those who \"detested\" use of \"Qiyas\" and \"Ijma\". Providing suspicious justification for the \"Traditionist\" fabricators were ahadith such as, \"sayings attributed to me which agree with the Qur'an go back to me, whether I actually said them or not.\" Though false, the forgeries could also be justified as recognizing the \"final legitimacy of what the prophet Muhammad did and said.\n\nAs evidence that most ahadith were created after 100 A.H., Schacht notes that: \n\nAs a whole, \"Origins\" critiques the methods and standards of ḥadīth verification as they were first articulated by Al-Shafi‘i and subsequently developed by his students in the eighth and ninth centuries CE, an early and centrally important stage in the formation of Islamic jurisprudence. His research builds upon the work of important figures in the nineteenth- and twentieth-century study of Islamic law in Europe, such as Gustav Weil and Ignác Goldziher. In particular, Schacht advocates a skeptical approach to medieval forms of 'isnād criticism, which he views as fabricated and comprising the greater part of Sunni approaches to verifying Prophetic traditions of a legal nature.\n\nSchacht locates the origins of \"'ilm al-ḥadīth\" in the eight and ninth centuries CE, a moment in the development of Islamic legal reasoning coinciding with the professionalization of the traditionalist (\"muḥaddith\") and jurist (\"faqīh\") classes in the urban centers of the Middle East.\n\nSchacht credits Imām al-Shāfiʻī, the founder of an eponymous school of Islamic jurisprudence, with \"creating\" \"the essentials\" of the theory of fiqh (the system of Islamic jurisprudence), made up of four principles/sources/components mentioned above: the Qurʾān, the ḥadīth of the Prophet Muḥammad and his Companions, scholarly consensus (ijmāʿ), analogical reasoning (qiyās).\n\nBecause the Quran has relatively few verses pertaining to fiqh, Al-Shafi‘i's system meant that \"the great bulk\" of the rules of the Islamic law were derived from ahadith. \nSchacht states that Shafi'i repeatedly insisted that \"nothing\" could override the authority of the Prophet, even if it was \"attested only by an isolated tradition\", and that if a hadith was \"well-authenticated\" (\"Ṣaḥīḥ\") going back to the Islamic Prophet Muhammad, it had \"precedence over the opinions of his Companions, their successors, and later authorities\".\n\nFollowing the work of Goldziher before him, Schacht argues that it was al-Shāfiʻī who first elevated the sunna and its constituent traditions to great legal prominence. The material importance of the Qurʾān and ḥadīth thereafter enjoyed a status comparable to that of juristic consensus, though for al-Shāfiʻī traditions credibly attributed to the Prophet were to be considered more authoritative than those of his Companions, and indeed could supersede all other sources of legal authority. Moreover, an already-existing legal standard based on such a tradition could be overturned only upon the emergence of a ḥadīth that could be more credibly attributable to the Prophet. Al-Shāfiʻī goes as far as to claim that such well-established traditions invite no debate as to their validity; their truth simply imposes itself upon the human mind, leaving no room for doubt or speculation. Schacht points out, however, that al-Shāfiʻī inconsistently applies this rule in his own work, alleging that in some cases the jurist favored 'aḥādīth transmitted from Companions that openly contradicted those attributable to the Prophet. These traditions usually included those which validated ritual practices that were either universally agreed upon or else independently verifiable (such as daily prayer), and those which disputed the legal positions of al-Shāfiʻī's opponents.\n\nBuilding on this lattermost point, Schacht contends that far from constructing the standards of a legitimate epistemic enterprise al-Shāfiʻī's science of ḥadīth amounts to little more than an uncritical acceptance of Prophetic traditions which justified his own legal preferences. These same traditions, claims Schacht, could not survive a stronger program of investigation. Although the technical evaluation of traditions would continue to evolve across many generations of Muslim scholars, it seems to have largely proceeded along the lines of the deficient form of ’isnād criticism first articulated here by al-Shāfiʻī. Later in Origins Schacht presents evidence which in his estimation suggests that there was in fact a large scale fabrication of Prophetic ’isnāds in the generation preceding the life of al-Shāfiʻī's own teacher, Mālik ibn ’Anas (d. 795 CE). Even in Mālik's esteemed golden narrative chain there are suspicious gaps and obvious substitutions, sowing significant doubts as to credibility of the relationships he was said to have had with certain key transmitters. For these reasons modern scholars cannot be nearly as optimistic about the historical-analytic value of ḥadīth literature as were their medieval Muslim counterparts.\n\nSchacht's views on this matter have come under criticism from scholars in recent decades. His notable critics include M. Muṣṭafā al-Aʻẓamī and Wael Hallaq. Al-A'zami's work \"On Schacht's Origins of Muhammadan Jurisprudence\" is a systematic response to Schacht's thesis. Hallaq argues that Schacht mistakenly assumes that medieval Muslims scholars held ḥadīth to be apodictically true. According to Hallaq, it is more likely the case — and indeed apparent to the careful reader upon inspecting the literature — that at least where matters of law were concerned medieval Muslim scholars judged the majority of ḥadīth as only probabilistically true. It was the epistemic sum of probable traditions, and not the assured truth of any one tradition in particular, upon which they built their legal rulings.\n\nScholarly reaction to Schacht's work has produced \"three camps of scholars\" according to Mohsen Haredy citing Wael Hallaq. Those (such as John Wansbrough, and Michael Cook) who seek to \"reconfirm his conclusions\", and at times going beyond them; those who endeavor to refute them (Nabia Abbott, F. Sezgin, M. Azami, Gregor Schoeler and Johann Fück) and a those \"seeking to create a middle, perhaps synthesized, position between the two\" (Motzki, D. Santillana, G.H. Juynboll, Fazlur Rahman and James Robson).\n\nAccording to David Forte, \"nearly all Western Islamic scholars agree that Schacht's evidence against the authenticity of the traditions is virtually unassailable.\" Some of the supporters of his these include Maurice Gaudefroy-Demombynes, who rights that many ahadith, \"are apocryphal and were invented in the 8th century in order to justify innovations and tendencies which were very foreign to the intentions of the Prophet.\" J. N. D. Anderson, who states most ahadith were, \"beyond question, fabricated,\" Herbert Liebesny Seymour Vesey-Fitzgerald, who states \"there was deliberate forgery of traditions by responsible lawyers on such a scale that no purely legal tradition of the Prophet himself can be regarded as above suspicion.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "49403586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49403586", "title": "Kleptocracy Tour", "text": "Kleptocracy Tour\n\n'Kleptocracy Tour' refers to tours of cities where financial flows from kleptocracies are being used to purchase residential property as a means of money-laundering.\n\nThe concept was founded by anti-corruption campaigners, started in London in February, 2016 and was modelled on the 'Beverly Hills-type tours of the homes of the stars'. The first tour focussed on properties owned by Russian, Ukrainian and Kazakh klepto-oligarchs congruent with the founders original area of expertise and awareness. The tour garnered widespread press coverage and sparked strong interest in subsequent tours in London and abroad.\n\nThe tours began in early February 2016, after the campaign for a public registry documenting the ultimate beneficial owners of London’s offshore companies was rejected. They are organised by the campaign group 'ClampK' which highlights both the local economic distortions caused by these capital inflows and the implicit corruption implied by facilitating this money-laundering by foreign kleptocrats. The tour is planned for expansion in Miami and New York City.\n\n"}
{"id": "16176276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16176276", "title": "Legal Services Ombudsman", "text": "Legal Services Ombudsman\n\nIn England and Wales, the Legal Services Ombudsman was a statutory officer that investigated allegations about the improper, ineffective or inefficient way that complaints about lawyers are handled by their respective self-regulating professional bodies. The Ombudsman is appointed by, and is answerable to, the Lord Chancellor and Secretary of State for Justice. It has been abolished under the Legal Services Act 2007\n\nThe first Ombudsman was appointed to start work on 2 January 1991. During the first decade of operation, the office undertook 10,531 investigations:\n\nAround 60% of the firms of solicitors in England and Wales and around 8% of practising barristers were subject of a complaint to the Ombudsman in that time.\n\nThe Ombudsman could:\nThere was also a power to re-investigate the original complaint but this is only used in exceptional circumstances.\n\nWith the passing of The Legal Services Act 2007 the Office of the Legal Services Ombudsman was abolished. It has been replaced by the Office for Legal Complaints. This body goes by the public name Legal Ombudsman.\n"}
{"id": "2967809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2967809", "title": "Legitimate expectation", "text": "Legitimate expectation\n\nThe doctrine of legitimate expectation was first developed in English law as a ground of judicial review in administrative law to protect a procedural or substantive interest when a public authority rescinds from a representation made to a person. It is based on the principles of natural justice and fairness, and seeks to prevent authorities from abusing power.\n\nThe courts of the United Kingdom have recognized both procedural and substantive legitimate expectations. A procedural legitimate expectation rests on the presumption that a public authority will follow a certain procedure in advance of a decision being taken, while a substantive legitimate expectation arises where an authority makes a lawful representation that an individual will receive or continue to receive some kind of substantive benefit. In determining a claim for an alleged breach of a legitimate expectation, a court will deliberate over three key considerations: (1) whether a legitimate expectation has arisen; (2) whether it would be unlawful for the authority to frustrate such an expectation; and (3) if it is found that the authority has done so, what remedies are available to the aggrieved person.\n\nProcedural legitimate expectations have been recognized in a number of common law jurisdictions. In contrast, notwithstanding their acceptance and protection in the UK, substantive legitimate expectations have not been universally recognized. For instance, they have been given effect in Singapore but not in Australia.\n\nSince its inception, the doctrine of legitimate expectation has been viewed as an offshoot of natural justice. The duty to act fairly is a core tenet of administrative law and a predominant feature in the application of the rules of natural justice. With each individual's entitlement to natural justice and fairness, legitimate expectation reinforces the duty of public bodies to act fairly. It is this protection of fairness that made way for the courts' acknowledgement of legitimate expectations. In their elaboration of the doctrine, courts of the United Kingdom adopted other key aspects of judicial review such as \"Wednesbury\" unreasonableness, fairness, and abuse of power to justify the existence and the protection of legitimate expectations.\n\nThe term \"legitimate expectation\" was first used in the case of \"Schmidt v. Secretary of State for Home Affairs\" (1968), but was not applied on the facts. Subsequently, in \"O'Reilly v. Mackman\" (1983) the doctrine of legitimate expectation was recognized as part of judicial review in public law, allowing individuals to challenge the legality of decisions on the grounds that the decision-maker \"had acted outwith the powers conferred upon it\". Although initially unclear, the nature and boundaries of the doctrine of legitimate expectation have been elucidated by seminal cases such as \"Council of Civil Service Unions v. Minister for the Civil Service\" (the \"GCHQ\" case, 1983). and \"R. v. North and East Devon Health Authority, ex parte Coughlan\" (1999). Notwithstanding efforts of the courts, some ambiguity as to when legitimate expectations arise persisted. In response, Lord Justice of Appeal John Laws proposed the aspiration of \"good administration\" as a justification for the protection of legitimate expectations.\n\nA procedural legitimate expectation is created when a representation is made by a public authority that it will follow a certain procedure before making a decision on the substantive merits of a particular case. Examples of procedural legitimate expectations include an expectation to be consulted and to a fair hearing. A substantive legitimate expectation is formed where a representation is made by an authority as to the final decision and outcome that the authority will make in a particular case.\n\nUpon reviewing a claim for the protection of a legitimate expectation against a public authority's decision, courts will deliberate over three key considerations:\n\n\nWhen determining if a legitimate expectation is present, the required conditions are as follows:\n\n\nCourts take into account not only the reasonableness of the expectation but other considerations such as the nature of representation made. In the \"GCHQ\" case, Lord Diplock stated that a legitimate expectation is one which \"has consequences to which effect will be given in public law, whereas an expectation or hope that some benefit or advantage would continue to be enjoyed, although it might well be entertained by a 'reasonable' man, would not necessarily have such consequences\". It is a question of law, and has to be decided on an objective basis with full reference to the facts of the case.\n\nAlthough the \"GCHQ\" case states that \"effect will be given in public law\" for a legitimate expectation, the legitimacy of an expectation is not meant to be a conclusory label assuring the court's provision of remedies, but rather to warrant \"prima facie\" protection only. It may be rebutted by countervailing public interests.\n\nA legitimate expectation does not arise when it is made \"ultra vires\" of the decision-maker's statutory powers, that is, when the decision-maker lacked legal power to make the representation. Courts are reluctant to protect such an expectation that has been created. The rationale is undoubtedly clear and rests on the scope of the administrative authority's powers. It prevents public authorities from expanding their powers simply by making \"ultra vires\" representations. Secondly, allowing public authorities to be bound by their \"ultra vires\" representations may potentially prevent them from exercising their statutory powers or duties. Also, allowing a public authority to be bound could be unfair to third parties who are affected. However, courts may be obliged to protect legitimate expectations arising from representations by unauthorized officers of the public body.\n\nExpectations are not legitimate when they require a public authority to act in breach of its statutory duty. This applies only when the statutory provisions diametrically conflict with the representation. In other words, the statutory provision will render the courts' fulfilment of the expectation impossible. However, a statutory provision which merely permits, but does not compel the public authority to breach the expectation will not necessarily justify any such breach.\nAn individual's human rights protected by the Human Rights Act 1998 of the UK, may occasionally override arguments of legality. In \"Stretch v. United Kingdom\" (2003), the European Court of Human Rights declared that whether the legality of the authority's action should be ignored will be determined on a case-by-case basis, and in light of proportionality.\n\nFor an expectation to be legitimate, the individual making the representation must have actual or apparent authority to make it on the behalf of the public authority. Such representations would \"prima facie\" bind the public authority. Although representations made by an individual with apparent authority may have been made outside his or her powers, they are nevertheless legitimate as they fall within the scope of powers of the particular public body.\n\nRepresentations will not lead to legitimate expectations when delegation of such power to the individual making the representation is forbidden by statute, or where the individual making the representation lacks actual or apparent authority. In the latter case, the applicant's expectation will lack legitimacy and thus would \"prima facie\" not be binding on the public authority.\n\nIn deciding whether the expectation held by the aggrieved party is legitimate, the courts will consider whether the expectation was, in all circumstances, reasonable when it was formed. The reasonableness test requires the court to assess the behaviour of the parties in the events which occurred prior to the making of the alleged representation, according to the following criteria:\n\n\nThe number of individuals affected may play a part, as courts have found a legitimate expectation to exist when the representation was \"pressing and focused\" and made to a small group of individuals. On the other hand, courts rarely find the existence of a legitimate expectation when the representation was one made in general terms to a large and diverse group of individuals. However, it may be noted that there are instances where an individual has successfully sought relief on behalf of a sizeable group of people.\n\nCourts have considered the applicant's reliance on the representation as a relevant consideration when determining the existence of a legitimate expectation. The role of reliance may be better assessed by distinguishing between \"weak reliance\" and \"strong reliance\". Weak reliance occurs when the applicant was made aware of and merely believed in the truth of the representation. Strong reliance, on the other hand, occurs where the applicant acted upon the representation and consequently faced detriment.\n\nWeak reliance is not required where the authority failed to apply the general policy at the time to the individual case at hand. This exception is prompted by the overriding imperative of equality. Thus, the applicant need not have had detailed knowledge or the existence of the policy in order for a legitimate expectation to arise where the public authority had departed from the existing policy in deciding the individual case.\n\nStrong reliance by the applicant is not compulsory to prove the existence of a legitimate expectation. In spite of this, Lord Justice of Appeal Peter Gibson stated in \"R. v. Secretary of State for Education and Employment, ex parte Begbie\" (1999) that \"it would be wrong to understate the significance of reliance in this area of the law\". Detrimental reliance is not indicative of whether the court should protect an applicant's legitimate expectation but usually furthers an applicant's case, and it is only in exceptional cases where courts will protect a legitimate expectation in which detrimental reliance is absent.\n\nA procedural legitimate expectation by an individual or group rests on the presumption that the decision-maker will follow a certain procedure in advance of a decision being taken. This expectation can manifest in various ways, such as the expectation of being consulted; of an inquiry being held; of a fair hearing; and of being allowed time to make representations, especially where the applicant is seeking to persuade an authority to depart from a lawfully established policy. The courts' protection of procedural legitimate expectations reinforces the notion that administrative decision-makers should be bound by certain representations which they make to individuals who stand to be affected by their decisions.\n\nRooted in the principle of natural justice, procedural legitimate expectation protects procedural interests of the individual in public law. Although procedural expectations by applicants may manifest in various forms, they are all aspects of the \"right to a hearing\", which an individual affected by a decision enjoys. The UK courts developed this doctrine largely to ensure that the rules of natural justice are observed, to encourage good administration and prevent abuses by decision-makers.\n\nA key step in the development of procedural legitimate expectation was the observation of Lord Fraser of Tullybelton in \"Attorney-General of Hong Kong v. Ng Yuen Shiu\" (1983) that \"when a public authority has promised to follow a certain procedure, it is in the interest of good administration that it should act fairly and should implement its promise, so long as implementation does not interfere with its statutory duty\".\n\nDespite initial resistance to recognition of this doctrine by the courts, the landmark \"GCHQ\" case firmly established procedural protection of legitimate expectations. In the case, strikes by civil servants at the Government Communications Headquarters had destabilized operations and were seen as a threat to national security. The Government of the United Kingdom took swift action to limit the rights of GCHQ employees to join unions, permitting them only to belong to an approved departmental staff association. The applicant organization challenged this decision by arguing that it should have been consulted because of a long-standing practice of doing so. In his judgment, Lord Fraser regarded the term \"legitimate\" as synonymous to \"reasonable\" and identified two ways in which a legitimate expectation could arise, namely, \"either from an express promise given on behalf of a public authority or from the existence of a regular practice which the claimant can reasonably expect to continue.\"\n\nWhile the House of Lords ultimately held that the government action was not unlawful for reasons of national security, it agreed that there was a legitimate expectation on the facts due to the well-established practice of consultation between the government and the trade union on important matters affecting the latter. The court was of the opinion that if not for national security interests, the application to protect a procedural legitimate expectation through judicial review would have been granted.\n\nProtection of procedural legitimate expectations has since been firmly entrenched as one of the court's roles in judicial review. The importance of procedural fairness as enunciated in the \"GCHQ\" case is further illustrated by \"Re Police Association for Northern Ireland's Reference\" (1990). Applying the principles in the \"GCHQ\" case, the High Court of Justice in Northern Ireland held that the Police Association had neither been deprived of a legitimate expectation nor treated unfairly. The Court of Appeal of England and Wales also protected procedural interests by stating that a public authority cannot, without some form of warning, change a long-standing practice that it is aware an individual has acted in the light of and derived a benefit from, in the case of \"R. v. Inland Revenue Commissioners, ex parte Unilever plc\" (1996).\n\nAlthough the courts' protection of procedural legitimate expectations assured individuals that decision-making processes were guided by fairness and thus the \"greater propensity for fairer decisions\", in some circumstances a procedural right alone was insufficient for producing a fair outcome as \"procedure and substance are intertwined, with procedural rights reinforcing substantive ones, and vice-versa \". The \"Schmidt\" case illustrates that the courts' protection of a procedural right inevitably leads to a substantive outcome. The plaintiffs here challenged a decision to refuse renewal of their residence permits on the grounds that they had not been given a hearing before the decision was reached. This argument was rejected as the original permits had been issued for only a certain time, which had since expired. However, Lord Denning, the Master of the Rolls, said that had the plaintiffs' residence permits been revoked before they expired, they \"would have a legitimate expectation of being allowed to stay for the permitted time\". The Court of Appeal in effect envisaged procedural protection of a substantive expectation of being allowed to stay in the UK.\n\nA substantive legitimate expectation arises where a public body makes a \"lawful representation that an individual will receive, or continue to receive, a substantive benefit of some kind\".\n\nIn \"R. v. Secretary of State for the Home Department, ex parte Hargreaves\" (1996), the Court of Appeal of England and Wales initially rejected the argument that the courts could perform a substantive review function beyond that permitted by \"Wednesbury\" unreasonableness. In contrast, in the earlier case of \"R. v. Secretary of State for the Home Department, ex parte Khan\" (1984), the applicant had argued that the government had unfairly failed to apply the criteria in a government circular that outlined when a family could adopt children living outside the UK. In the Court of Appeal's judgment, Lord Justice of Appeal Hubert Parker surmised that expanding the doctrine of legitimate expectation to protect a substantive element would not necessarily be inconsistent with the principle underlying the doctrine. He stated that \"just as [other cases have established that public authorities cannot] resile from an undertaking and change [their] policy without giving a fair hearing so, in principle, the Secretary of State, if he undertakes to allow in persons if certain conditions are satisfied, should not in my view be entitled to resile from that undertaking without affording interested persons a hearing\".\n\nThis introduced the idea that in certain cases the courts would consider if policy changes were justified even when the affected parties had already been consulted. Effectively, this proposition grants courts the discretion to ascertain whether the public interest is better served by ordering an authority to perform its undertaking than to frustrate it.\n\n\"Ex parte Khan\" is also regarded as the first case in which an individual relied on a general policy, as opposed to a specific representation or a policy drawn for a closed class of persons, as the grounds for the expectation of a benefit. While the case mooted the idea of a substantive legitimate expectation, the doctrine was more completely developed in the High Court judgment of \"R. v. Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, ex parte Hamble (Off-shore) Fisheries Ltd.\" (1995). Justice Stephen Sedley attempted to widen the Court's protection of legitimate expectations by including \"substantive protection of a substantive legitimate expectation\". He rejected the proposition that legitimate expectations are limited to procedural grounds by stating: \"It is difficult to see why it is any less unfair to frustrate a legitimate expectation that something will or will not be done by the decision-maker than it is to frustrate a legitimate expectation that the applicant will be listened to before the decision-maker decides whether to take a particular step.\"\n\nWhen a court protects an applicant's substantive legitimate expectation, it is effectively mandating the outcome of a public body's decision-making process. One criticism is that this undesirably fetters the body's discretion as it will no longer be able to formulate policy without constraints. Nevertheless, it has been acknowledged that protecting substantive legitimate expectations ensures good administration. Consistency and fairness are reinforced in decision-making processes where the administrative power to alter policy is not used to unduly frustrate legitimate expectations. Furthermore, when a public body acts contrary to what it had induced an individual to expect, it may cause that individual severe hardship, especially if he or she relied on the representation and there is no satisfactory alternative to the substance of the promise. The problem is alleviated if the court orders that the individual's legitimate expectation be given effect.\n\nSubstantive legitimate expectation was definitively recognized as a ground of judicial review in the UK in \"ex parte Coughlan\". The case involved a health authority which resiled from its explicit promise to the disabled applicant that a facility at which she was living would be her \"home for life\". The Court of Appeal affirmed that the applicant had a legitimate expectation that the authority would keep the facility open, and quashed the authority's decision to close it. The Court stated that there were three categories of legitimate expectations:\n\n\nUnder the categorical approach advocated by \"ex parte Coughlan\", for a substantive legitimate expectation to be protected it had to fit into either category (a) or (c). However, classifying substantive legitimate expectations into distinct categories is difficult in cases where there are overlaps, leading Lord Justice Laws to suggest in \"ex parte Begbie\" that the categories mentioned in \"ex parte Coughlan\" are not \"hermetically sealed\". In an \"obiter dictum\" in \"Nadarajah v. Secretary of State for the Home Department\" (2005), Lord Justice Laws set out a more structured form of merits-based review. He expanded the categorical approach in \"ex parte Coughlan\" into a continuum based on proportionality, suggesting that in order for a public body's decision to resile from a legitimate expectation to be lawful, it must be \"a proportionate response to a legitimate aim pursued by the public body in the public interest\".\n\nBy advocating proportionality in the court's approach towards protecting substantive legitimate expectations, Lord Justice Laws effectively paralleled the approach used by the UK courts when considering whether an interference with a right subject to qualifications protected by the European Convention on Human Rights is lawful. Drawing guidance from the Convention, the proportionality test requires (1) that the objective of the action must be sufficiently important to justify limiting a fundamental right; (2) that the action designed to meet the objective must be rationally connected to that objective, and not be arbitrary, unfair or based on irrational considerations; and (3) the means used to impair the right must be no more than is necessary to accomplish the legitimate objective, and the more severe the deleterious effects of an action, the more important the objective must be if the action is to be justified. As the European Convention was given effect in the domestic law of the UK by the Human Rights Act 1998, the proportionality approach resonated with the courts which were familiar in applying the test in cases involving qualified Convention rights across a wide spectrum of factual and policy contexts. For instance, the proportionality approach was applied by Justice Stephen Silber in \"R. (X) v. Head Teacher and Governors of Y School\" (2007).\n\nHaving determined that the applicant's substantive expectation is legitimate, the court then has to determine whether there is any overriding public interest justifying the public authority's decision to resile from its representation, or whether fairness dictates that the representation should be given effect to.\n\nWhen a court establishes that a public authority's decision has breached a legitimate expectation, it may annul the decision and order that the authority fulfil the expectation. A decision is invalidated by the issuance of a quashing order (also known as \"certiorari\"), one of the more common prerogative orders, and often results in the issue returning to the original body to be reconsidered afresh. For example, in \"Ng Yuen Shiu\", a representation was made by the Director of Immigration that each illegal entrant to Hong Kong from Macau, of whom the applicant was one, would be interviewed with each case treated on its merits before a decision was made whether to deport the entrant. However, the applicant was not given an opportunity to make any representations. The Director's failure to provide the applicant with this chance was deemed a sufficient ground for quashing the decision. The Court of Appeal of Hong Kong had ordered a prohibition restraining the removal orders from being executed. However, the Privy Council decided that a prohibition was excessive and issued a \"certiorari\" instead. It noted that the latter order did not prevent the Director from making a fresh removal order following a fair inquiry at which the applicant had been given an opportunity to explain why he should not be deported.\n\nA quashing order may also be used to protect a substantive legitimate expectation. It sets aside the decision that frustrates the promise made by a public authority to an applicant, thus binding the authority to fulfil its representation. In \"Ex parte Coughlan\", the Court of Appeal of England and Wales held that the applicant had a substantive legitimate expectation for the facility at which she was living to be kept open for the rest of her life, which the health authority was not allowed to frustrate. It therefore upheld the High Court's decision to issue a quashing order to prevent the authority from closing the facility, effectively ensuring that the facility was kept running for the benefit of its residents.\n\nTo direct a public body fulfil a legitimate expectation, the court issues a mandatory order (also known as a \"mandamus\"). This is a prerogative order which commands a public body to perform a public duty, and is often used to compel public bodies to exercise the powers given to them.\n\nIn \"R. (Bibi) v. Newham London Borough Council\" (2001), instead of ordering that the public authority fulfil a legitimate expectation that had been breached, the Court of Appeal of England and Wales held that when the decision in question is \"informed by social and political value judgments as to priorities of expenditure\" it is more appropriate for the authority to make the decision, and the court may order that the authority should merely reconsider its decision, taking into account the person's substantive legitimate expectation.\n\nThe payment of damages (monetary compensation) by a public authority is relevant to legitimate expectation in two ways. First, if the authority has voluntarily paid damages to an individual for breaching a legitimate expectation, the court could hold that the authority has not abused its power and thus there is no need to compel it to fulfil the expectation. Secondly, it has been suggested that upon finding that the authority has breached a legitimate expectation, instead of ordering the expectation to be given effect, the court could direct that damages be paid. However, a serious difficulty with this proposal is the fact that at present English law does not generally recognize monetary compensation as a remedy for breaches of public law. A person can only obtain damages if he or she also has a parallel cause of action in private law (for example, in the law of contract or tort), and the non-fulfilment of a legitimate expectation is only likely to give rise to such a cause of action on rare occasions. In \"R. v. Commissioners of Custom and Excise, ex parte F & I Services Ltd.\" (2001) Justice Sedley referred to the possibility of damages as a remedy, but commented:\n\nThe view has been taken that damages are not a suitable remedy when the loss suffered by an individual cannot be assessed meaningfully, but if they can be quantified then ordering an authority to pay compensation is preferable to insisting that it act in a manner that it regards as not being in the public interest. However, fulfilment of the legitimate expectation should be the primary remedy.\n\nBesides applying in the UK, procedural legitimate expectation was approved by the Federal Court of Australia in \"GTE (Australia) Pty. Ltd. v. Brown\" (1986). In the case, the Minister of State for Administrative Services, acting on behalf of the Minister of State for Industry and Commerce, imposed anti-dumping duties on the applicant. The applicant brought legal proceedings claiming that the authorities had denied it natural justice by failing to comply with a promise to provide an opportunity for a hearing towards the close of the investigation on whether the duties should be levied, and by departing from certain procedures. Applying \"Ng Yuen Shiu\" and the \"GCHQ\" case, the Court agreed that the applicant's legitimate expectation had been frustrated by the failure to conduct a hearing, and that it had been unfair for the authorities not to follow the procedures.\n\nOn the other hand, strong doubts have been expressed about substantive legitimate expectation. In \"Re Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs; Ex parte Lam\" (2003), the High Court of Australia said that the reasoning in \"ex parte Coughlan\" violated the separation of powers doctrine by overextending the reach of judicial power provided for in section 75(v) of the Constitution of Australia. In its opinion, the balancing act employed in \"ex parte Coughlan\" should be left to the executive and falls beyond the province of the courts.\n\nIn Singapore, the High Court has recognized that a representation that a consultation will be held before a public authority makes a decision can give rise to a procedural legitimate expectation, though no applicant has successfully established the existence of such an expectation yet.\n\nAs for the protection of substantive legitimate expectations, in \"Abdul Nasir bin Amer Hamsah v. Public Prosecutor\" (1997), a criminal case, the Court of Appeal relied on the concept of legitimate expectations to support the overruling of an incorrect legal principle prospectively – with effect from the date of the judgment – rather than retrospectively which would be the usual effect of a judgment. It stated that \"certain legitimate expectations could, in certain circumstances, be deserving of protection, even though they did not acquire the force of a legal right\", although it emphasized it was not considering whether the Prisons Department was prevented from carrying out its duties by a legitimate expectation. In \"UDL Marine (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. v. Jurong Town Corp.\" (2011), the High Court doubted whether the doctrine of substantive legitimate expectation is part of Singapore law, but did not discuss the matter fully as neither the respondent nor the Attorney-General had made submissions on the issue.\n\nSubsequently, in \"Chiu Teng @ Kallang Pte. Ltd. v. Singapore Land Authority\" (2013), a differently constituted High Court held that substantive legitimate expectation should be recognized as a ground of judicial review if the following conditions are satisfied:\n\nJudicial precedents have developed the doctrine of legitimate expectation in Bangladesh since 1987. The criteria of the doctrine was restated in \"Golam Mustafa v. Bangladesh\", which is described in the following.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4185134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4185134", "title": "Marking of Weight (Packages Transported by Vessels) Convention, 1929", "text": "Marking of Weight (Packages Transported by Vessels) Convention, 1929\n\nMarking of Weight (Packages Transported by Vessels) Convention, 1929 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1929:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to the marking of the weight on heavy packages transported by vessels...\n\nAs of 2013, the treaty has been ratified by 66 states.\n\n"}
{"id": "2217545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2217545", "title": "Martha McCaughey", "text": "Martha McCaughey\n\nMartha McCaughey (born October 25, 1966) is an American academic and author. She is the director of Women's Studies at Appalachian State University. Her research and writings have dealt extensively with evolutionary psychology as applied to gender. Her most recent book is \"The Caveman Mystique: Pop-Darwinism and the Debates over Sex, Violence, and Science\" (2008, Routledge). This book reveals McCaughey's ability to complicate debates in both feminism and evolutionary science.\n\nAmong her writings are two similarly titled books: \"Real Knockouts: the Physical Feminism of Women’s Self-Defense\" () in 1997 and \"Reel Knockouts: Violent Women in the Movies\" (), which she co-edited in 2001 with Neal King.\n\n\"Real Knockouts\" made McCaughey's mark in feminist theory, as the first comprehensive attempt to bridge the gap between academia and mainstream women's self-defense. In it, she defines the self-defense movement serves as a form of feminist empowerment and consciousness raising that can be used to make feminist theory accessible to women who would otherwise be unreceptive. She also proposes the idea that by participating in self-defense, women change the definition of femininity and alter the gender roles, both male and female, that support existing rape culture. Although McCaughey takes a generally positive stance regarding self-defense, and dedicates a chapter to countering various criticisms of women's self-defense from within feminist theory, she does acknowledge and examine several practical and legal concerns with self-defense. As part of that, she analyzes the legal repercussions of violent self-defense, including consideration of the way that racism, classism, sexism, and stereotypes concerning battered wife syndrome affect the legal system's judgement on whether or not a woman's self-defense is legitimate.\n\n\"Reel Knockouts\" (co-edited with Neal M. King) is a collection of essays that examine portrayals of violent women in film.\n\nShe is also the co-editor, with Michael D. Ayers, of \"Cyberactivism: Online Activism in Theory and Practice\" (2003, Routledge).\n\n"}
{"id": "3504857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3504857", "title": "Minors and abortion", "text": "Minors and abortion\n\nMany jurisdictions have laws applying to minors and abortion. These parental involvement laws require that one or more parents consent or be informed before their minor daughter may legally have an abortion.\n\nA minor does not require parental consent or notification except in Western Australia, where in the event of the woman being under 16 years of age one of her parents must be notified, except where permission has been granted by the Children's Court or the woman does not live with her parents.\n\nIn Canada, abortion is subject to general medical legislation, as there are no laws regulating abortion. Access varies by province and by region; though there are no legal restrictions to abortion. Most medical facilities in Canada do not share medical information with a parent without consent of their child who is seeking an abortion. In 1989, the Supreme Court ruled that the woman's partner, the father of the baby, has no right to veto her decision to undergo an abortion. Abortion is funded by the government.\n\nA pregnant girl under the age of 18 may ask for an abortion without consulting her parents first, but she has to be accompanied to the clinic by an adult of her choice. This adult must not tell her parents or any third party about the abortion.\n\nGirls under the age of 18 must get written permission from a parent or guardian before being allowed an abortion.\n\nMinor girls under 18 need parental consent. Under the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971, abortion is permitted on liberal grounds until 20 weeks of pregnancy. Abortions after 20 weeks are illegal, but a court may authorize such a late abortion in exceptional circumstances.\n\nParental authorisation is required if the woman is under 18.\n\nNew Zealand has no parental notification restrictions on under-sixteen access for abortion.\n\nParental consent is required if the woman is under 16 years of age.\n\nParental consent is always required if the woman seeking abortion is a minor.\n\nIn South Africa, any woman of any age can get an abortion on request with no reasons given if she is less than 13 weeks pregnant. A woman under the age of 18 will be advised to consult her parents, but she can decide not to inform or consult them if she so chooses. However, she must give informed consent, meaning that if she is unable to understand the consequences of an abortion she cannot consent to one without the assistance of her parents or guardian.\n\nIn 2009, the Socialist government passed a bill that states that girls aged 16 and 17 must inform her parents (but does not need parental consent) for an abortion except if the girl comes from an abusive household and such news will cause more strife.\n\nThe current legislation is the Abortion Act of 1974. This states that up until the end of the eighteenth week of the pregnancy the choice of an abortion is entirely up to the woman, for any reason whatsoever. The law makes no distinction with regards to the age of the pregnant woman.\n\nParental involvement laws in the UK; if the girl is seen as competent by medical staff no disclosure to parents is allowed. In most cases, girls aged 13 or above will be covered by this provision but pre-teenagers will not and parents, social workers and police can become involved to protect the child. Around 120 12-year-olds, at least five 11-year-olds and two nine-year-olds have had legal abortions since 1996. In 2005, Sue Axon, of Manchester, wanted the law changed to prevent girls under 16 getting confidential advice. However, the High Court had rejected a review of guidelines which state that terminations do not need parents' consent and doctors should respect girls' confidentiality.\n\nIn the United States, most states typically require one of two types of parental involvement– consent or notification, or both. 37 states require parental involvement in a minor's decision to have an abortion (21 states require parental consent only, 3 of which require both parents to consent; 11 states require parental notification only, 1 of which requires that both parents be notified; 5 states require both parental consent and notification; 8 states require the parental consent documentation to be notarized). In Delaware the law only applies to minors under 16, and in South Carolina to minors under 17. Parental involvement laws played a key role in forcing the Court to clarify its position on abortion regulation. The Court ruled, in essence, that parental involvement laws (and all other abortion regulation) can legally make it more difficult for a female to acquire an abortion. But there is a threshold beyond which the increased difficulties become unconstitutional. Requiring spousal involvement before a woman can acquire an abortion has been interpreted as falling on the unconstitutional side of that threshold, while parental involvement has been interpreted as falling on the constitutional side. Or, to use the language of \"Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pennsylvania v. Casey\" (1992), spousal notification laws place an \"undue burden\" on a woman's ability to get an abortion, whereas parental involvement laws do not.\n\nParental involvement laws have three basic features. First, they are binding on minors, not adults. Second, they require, at minimum, that minors notify their parents before an abortion is performed, and in some cases consent from the parents. And third, they allow minors to acquire a judicial bypass if consent cannot be acquired. These regulations are but one example of the detailed fabric of abortion legislation and regulation that has evolved since the Supreme Court's decision to legalize abortion in its 1973 \"Roe v. Wade\" and \"Doe v. Bolton\".\n\nThe first major case involving parental involvement legislation was decided in 1976 in \"Planned Parenthood of Central Missouri v. Danforth\". This case involved a Missouri law that required consent from various parties before an abortion could be performed– written consent by the patient, spousal consent for married individuals, and parental consent for minors, specifically. The court ruled that the parental consent provision was unconstitutional due to its universal enforcement.\n\nThe ability of a minor to acquire an abortion against her parent's wishes became a recurring theme in several more cases following \"Planned Parenthood of Central Missouri v. Danforth\". \"Bellotti v. Baird\" (1979) addressed a Massachusetts law that required a minor to acquire parental consent before an abortion was performed. But, unlike the \"Danforth\" case, this law allowed for judicial bypass if consent could not be acquired. Similar reasoning can be found in \"H.L. v. Matheson\" (1981). This case ruled on the relatively milder regulation of parental notification as opposed to parental consent. In this case, the Court ruled that parental notification is constitutional since the parent could not veto the adolescent's final decision to acquire an abortion. In \"Planned Parenthood of Kansas City v. Ashcroft\" (1983), the Supreme Court ruled that parental consent is constitutional so long as it also allowed a judicial bypass if such consent could not be acquired. In \"Planned Parenthood of S.E. Pennsylvania v. Casey\" (1992), the Court placed parental involvement firmly within a broader set of legal principles governing a woman's constitutional right to an abortion. Parental involvement, and other regulations, were constitutional so long that they did not place an \"undue burden\" on a woman's ability to acquire an abortion. \n\nIn \"Planned Parenthood of Massachusetts v. Attorney General\" (1997), the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts found the requirement of \"both\" parents consenting to the minor's abortion unconstitutional, but upheld the parental consent of one parent.\n\nIn November 2011, the Illinois Supreme Court agreed to consider whether the state must begin enforcing a 1995 law requiring parental notification. The Court ultimately agreed in July 2013 that the law ought to be enforced, with the parental notification law taking effect on August 15.\n\nIn \"American Academy of Pediatrics v. Lungren (1997) 16 Cal.4th 307\" the Supreme Court of California struck down the 1987 parental consent law of the state (which had been enjoined shortly after enactment, and thus never enforced). This case also made history because it was one of the few cases in the legal history of California where its Supreme Court granted a rehearing of a legal case, after it had previously ruled in \"American Academy of Pediatrics v. Lungren (1996) 51 Cal.Rptr.2d 201\" that the law was constitutional.\n\nAdvocacy groups have made a number of arguments in favor of parental notification.\n\n\nAdvocacy groups on the other side have also made a number of arguments against parental notification:\n\n\n\nIn 2009, Archbishop José Cardoso Sobrinho excommunicated, or rather declared excommunicated (since the canon law invoked imposes the excommunication automatically), the mother and doctors of a 9-year-old girl for carrying out an abortion on the girl's twin fetuses. The girl was impregnated by her own stepfather, who had repeatedly raped her since she was six years old. The doctors recommended the abortion because they believed the girl's youth would prevent her from delivering the twins safely. The affair shocked the Brazilian government and provoked disgust from President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva.\n\nPope Benedict XVI later gave a controversial speech in Angola where he condemned all forms of abortion, even those considered to be therapeutic. Therapeutic abortion is the term for abortions that are typically performed to save the life of the mother or in which the fetus has been found to have a defect incompatible with life.\n\nIn support\n\nIn opposition\n\nNeutral\n"}
{"id": "30877827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30877827", "title": "Moresby Treaty", "text": "Moresby Treaty\n\nThe Moresby Treaty was an anti-slavery treaty made between Sayyid Said, Sultan of Muscat and Oman and Fairfax Moresby, senior officer of Mauritius, on behalf of Britain in September 1822.\n\nInitially composed of six articles, the purpose of the treaty was to limit the Indian Ocean slave trade by preventing the importation of slaves to British holdings in India and the Indian Ocean from land ruled by Omani Arabs in East Africa. The treaty barred the sale of slaves to Christians of any nationality, recognized the sultan’s jurisdiction over the waters near the East African coast, allowed for the installation of a British official in Zanzibar or the mainland, and created the Moresby Line.\n\nAmong the stipulations was the creation of the Moresby Line. The line ran from the southernmost point of the sultan’s territory in Africa – Cape Delgado in Mozambique - through the Indian Ocean to the city of Diu on the coast of India. The transportation of slaves west of the established line, a primarily Muslim zone of the Indian Ocean, was at this point considered legal but prohibited on the eastern side. To enforce this rule, warships were given the authority to confiscate ships carrying slaves in illegal waters east of the line and punish the captain in the same manner as a pirate, by “death without the benefit of clergy”. The only exemption to this regulation provided for ships that had gone past the line due to conditions beyond their control including extreme weather conditions. Confusion arose as to who exactly was to enforce this part of the treaty as the English version of the text placed responsibility on the Omanis while the Arab text placed the onus on the British.\n\nOn December 17, 1839 the treaty was expanded in scope, adding three more articles to the original agreement. The extension increased the area in which the transportation of slaves was considered illegal by moving the endpoint of the Moresby Line west to the port of Pasni on the Makran Coast. Additionally, the amendment prohibited the sale of Somalis as slaves because, as Muslims, they were considered ‘free men’ by the Omani ruler who was a Muslim himself.\n"}
{"id": "370398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=370398", "title": "Municipal charter", "text": "Municipal charter\n\nA city charter or town charter (generically, municipal charter) is a legal document (\"charter\") establishing a municipality such as a city or town. The concept developed in Europe during the Middle Ages.\n\nTraditionally the granting of a charter gave a settlement and its inhabitants the right to town privileges under the feudal system. Townspeople who lived in chartered towns were burghers, as opposed to serfs who lived in villages. Towns were often \"free\", in the sense that they were directly protected by the king or emperor, and were not part of a feudal fief.\n\nToday the process for granting is determined by the type of government of the state in question. In monarchies, charters are still often a royal charter given by the Crown or the state authorities acting on behalf of the Crown. In federations, the granting of charters may be within the jurisdiction of the lower level of government such as province.\n\nIn Canada charters are granted by provincial authorities.\n\nSince the beginning of American colonial rule, Philippines cities were formally established through laws enacted by the various national legislatures in the country. The Philippine Commission gave the city of Manila its charter in 1901, while the city of Baguio was established by the Philippine Assembly which was composed by elected members instead of appointed ones. During the Commonwealth era, the National Assembly established an additional ten cities. Since achieving independence from the United States in 1946 the Philippine Congress has established 124 more cities (as of September 2007), the majority of which required the holding of a plebiscite within the proposed city's jurisdiction to ratify the city's charter.\n\nIn Sweden until 1951, cities were established by royal charter; see City status in Sweden.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, towns and cities are established by royal charter; see city status in the United Kingdom.\n\nIn the United States, such charters are established either directly by a state legislature by means of local legislation, or indirectly under a general municipal corporation law, usually after the proposed charter has passed a referendum vote of the affected population.\n\nA municipal charter is the basic document that defines the organization, powers, functions and essential procedures of the city government. The charter is, therefore, the most important legal document of any city. Municipalities without charters, in states where such exist, are known as general-law municipalities or cities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26646555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26646555", "title": "Necessity and Urgency Decree", "text": "Necessity and Urgency Decree\n\nA Necessity and Urgency Decree (Spanish: \"Decreto de necesidad y urgencia\", also known as DNU) is a special kind of order issued by the President of Argentina. Unlike regular decrees, which are used in Argentina for rulemaking, a DNU has the force of law. Once the President promulgates a DNU, it comes into force almost immediately; afterwards, the National Congress must examine the decree to determine whether it will be allowed to remain in force or not.\n\nThe possibility to promulgate DNUs is established in the article 99 of the Constitution of Argentina since 1994. As its name indicates, a Necessity and Urgency Decree is to be used only under exceptional situations, when it is not possible to follow the normal procedure to create laws in the Congress. In addition, the President cannot sanction DNUs legislating about criminal, tributary or electoral matters.\n\nAs with regular decrees, Necessity and Urgency Decrees are promulgated by the President, but only with \"General Agreement of Ministers\" (Spanish: \"Acuerdo general de ministros\"). It means that all Ministers and the Chief of Staff must take part in the DNU's creation.\n\nOnce the Necessity and Urgency Decree is sanctioned, the Chief of Staff must send the DNU to the Permanent Bicameral Committee of the Congress in no more than ten days. Then, the Bicameral Committee delivers its report to the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. The Committee has also ten days to elaborate the report. During all this process, the DNU is completely in force.\n\nEach legislative chamber must deliver a resolution expressing its approval or rejection of the Necessity and Urgency Decree. If both chambers reject the DNU, it loses validity permanently. However, any rights acquired by people affected by the decree are not automatically terminated.\n\nAll legislation issued by military dictatorships in Argentina was made by the executive. These kinds of orders were known as \"decree-law\" (Spanish: \"decreto ley\"). Under the self-called \"Argentine Revolution\" and the \"National Reorganization Process\" (the two latest military governments), the \"decree-laws\" were known simply as \"laws\".\n\nBecause they were \"de facto\" governments, there was a legal controversy about the validity of decree-laws. In 1945, the Supreme Court of Argentina accepted them only if they were needed to fulfill the aims of the government. When the military government dissolved and civilian rule was reestablished, the decree-laws were no longer valid, unless the Congress ratified them.\n\nIn 1946, a new judgment by the Supreme Court established that decree-laws would remain valid after the end of the \"de facto\" government that promulgated them, and they could be abolished or modified in the same manner as other laws.\n\nAlthough DNUs were introduced in their present form in the National Constitution in 1994, previous constitutional Presidents have used this type of decree. One example is the \"Austral Plan\", which changed the national currency from the peso argentino to the Austral. This was sanctioned by the President Raúl Alfonsín in 1985, using the decree 1096/85. Currently, Argentina uses the peso as its national currency.\n\nIn December 1990, the Supreme Court approved the sanction of Necessity and Urgency Decree in the so-called \"Peralta Case\", in which Luis Peralta requested to declare unconstitutional the decree 36/90, that President Menem promulgated in 1990. The judges of the Court eventually confirmed the validity of the DNU.\n\nDespite the fact that the Constitution says the Congress must create a special law to analyze Necessity and Urgency Decrees, this law was created in 2006, twelve years after the 1994 amendment of the Argentine Constitution, when the DNU were introduced. It means that all Presidents who ruled in this period (Carlos Menem, Fernando de la Rúa, Adolfo Rodríguez Saá, Eduardo Duhalde and Néstor Kirchner) could issue DNU's with no legislative control.\n\nIn addition, they are DNU's which were created with no real need or urgency, such as the decrees that modify the Ministries Law to create new executive departments. The abuse of DNU's was also criticized.\n\nEduardo Duhalde, interim President between 2002 and 2003, was the President who signed more DNU's per year since the 1983 return to civilian rule. He promulgated 158 DNU's in one year. Those decrees were neither checked by the Congress.\n\nNéstor Kirchner (2003–2007) promulgated 270 Necessity and Urgency Decrees in four years and a half. His DNU's released until 2006 were not controlled by the Congress. His average is 60 Necessity and Urgency Decrees per year.\n\nDuring the presidency of Carlos Menem (1989–1999), he signed 545 DNU's in ten years, or 54.5 per year. None of his Necessity and Urgency Decrees were analyzed by the legislative branch of the government.\n\nIn Fernando de la Rúa's two-years presidency (1999–2001), 73 special decrees were released. His average was thus 36.5 DNU's per year. The decrees signed by De la Rúa were not analyzed by the Bicameral Committee.\n\nDuring the presidency of Cristina Fernández de Kirchner (2007–2015) she signed five Necessity and Urgency Decrees until March 2009. Subsequently, she issued three DNU's creating new ministries, another one creating a welfare plan, a decree to remove Martín Redrado as president of the Central Bank, and other three Necessity and Urgency Decrees related to the payment of public debt The total number was 13 DNU's in her first three years of presidency, or four Necessity and Urgency Decrees per year.\n\n"}
{"id": "1689494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1689494", "title": "Neomercantilism", "text": "Neomercantilism\n\nNeomercantilism is a policy regime that encourages exports, discourages imports, controls capital movement, and centralizes currency decisions in the hands of a central government. The objective of neo-mercantilist policies is to increase the level of foreign reserves held by the government, allowing more effective monetary policy and fiscal policy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1217056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1217056", "title": "Organicism", "text": "Organicism\n\nOrganicism is the philosophical perspective which views the universe and its parts as organic wholes and – either by analogy or literally – as living organisms. It can be synonymous with holism. Organicism is an important tradition within the history of natural philosophy where it has remained as a vital current alongside reductionism and mechanism, the approaches that have dominated science since the seventeenth century. Plato is among the earliest philosophers to have regarded the universe as an intelligent living being (see \"Timaeus\"). Organicism flourished for a period during the era of German romanticism during which time the new science of biology was first defined by Jean-Baptiste Lamarck. Within modern-day biological sciences organicism is the approach that stresses the organization (particularly the self-organizing properties), rather than the composition, of organisms. John Scott Haldane was the first biologist to use the term to describe his philosophical views in 1917, after which it was followed by certain other biologists in the 20th century.\n\nOrganicism as a doctrine rejects mechanism and reductionism (doctrines that claim that the smallest parts by themselves explain the behavior of larger organized systems of which they are a part). However, organicism also rejects vitalism, the doctrine that there is a vital force different from physical forces that accounts for living things. As Capra puts it, both schools, organicism and vitalism, were born from the quest for getting rid of the Cartesian picture of reality, a view that has been claimed to be the most destructive paradigm nowadays, from science to politics.\nA number of biologists in the early to mid-twentieth century embraced organicism. They wished to reject earlier vitalisms but to stress that whole organism biology was not fully explainable by atomic mechanism. The larger organization of an organic system has features that must be taken into account to explain its behavior.\n\nGilbert and Sarkar distinguish organicism from holism to avoid what they see as the vitalistic or spiritualistic connotations of holism. Dusek notes that holism contains a continuum of degrees of the top-down control of organization, ranging from monism (the doctrine that the only complete object is the whole universe, or that there is only one entity, the universe) to organicism, which allows relatively more independence of the parts from the whole, despite the whole being more than the sum of the parts, and/or the whole exerting some control on the behavior of the parts.\n\nStill more independence is present in relational holism. This doctrine does not assert top-down control of the whole over its parts, but does claim that the relations of the parts are essential to explanation of behavior of the system. Aristotle and early modern philosophers and scientists tended to describe reality as made of substances and their qualities, and to neglect relations. Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz showed the bizarre conclusions to which a doctrine of the non-existence of relations led. Twentieth century philosophy has been characterized by the introduction of and emphasis on the importance of relations, whether in symbolic logic, in phenomenology, or in metaphysics.\n\nWilliam Wimsatt has suggested that the number of terms in the relations considered distinguishes reductionism from holism. Reductionistic explanations claim that two or at most three term relations are sufficient to account for the system's behavior. At the other extreme the system could be considered as a single ten to the twenty-sixth term relation, for instance.\n\nOrganicism has some intellectually and politically controversial or suspect associations. \"Holism,\" the doctrine that the whole is more than the sum of its parts, often used synonymously with organicism, or as a broader category under which organicism falls, has been co-opted in recent decades by \"holistic medicine\" and by New Age Thought. German Nazism appealed to organicist and holistic doctrines, discrediting for many in retrospect, the original organicist doctrines. (See Anne Harrington). Soviet Dialectical Materialism also made appeals to an holistic and organicist approach stemming from Hegel via Karl Marx's co-worker Friedrich Engels, again giving a controversial political association to organicism.\n\nOrganicism' has also been used to characterize notions put forth by various late 19th-century social scientists who considered human society to be analogous to an organism, and individual humans to be analogous to the cells of an organism. This sort of organicist sociology was articulated by Alfred Espinas, Paul von Lilienfeld, Jacques Novicow, Albert Schäffle, Herbert Spencer, and René Worms, among others.\n\nThomas Hobbes arguably put forward a form of organicism. In the \"Leviathan\", he argued that the state is like a secular God whose constituents (individual people) make up a larger organism.\n\nIn breathing entities, cells – i.e., the smallest unit of life – were first observed in the 17th century, when the multifaceted equipment microscope was conceived. Before that period, the individual organisms were studied as a whole in a field known as organismic biology; that area of research remains an important component of the biological sciences. Further, as Capra puts it, during the early 1900s, the quantum researchers struggled with the same paradigm shift from \"the parts to the whole\" that culminated into the scholars of organismic biology.\n\nIn biology organicism considers that the observable structures of life, its overall form and the properties and characteristics of its component parts are a result of the reciprocal play of all the components on each other.\nExamples of 20th century biologists who were organicists are Ross Harrison, Paul Weiss, and Joseph Needham. Donna Haraway discusses them in her first book \"Crystals, Fabrics, and Fields\". John Scott Haldane (father of J. B. S. Haldane), William Emerson Ritter, Edward Stuart Russell, Joseph Henry Woodger, Ludwig von Bertalanffy, and Ralph Stayner Lillie are other early twentieth century organicists. Robert Rosen, founder of \"Relational Biology\" provided a comprehensive mathematical and category-theoretic treatment of irreducible causal relations he believed to be responsible for life.\n\nIn the early 1930s Joseph Henry Woodger and Joseph Needham, together with Conrad Hal Waddington, John Desmond Bernal, Dorothy Needham, and Dorothy Wrinch, formed the Theoretical Biology Club, to promote the organicist approach to biology. The club was in opposition to mechanism, reductionism and the gene-centric view of evolution. Most of the members were influenced by the philosophy of Alfred North Whitehead. The club disbanded as the Rockefeller Foundation refused to fund their investigations.\n\n\nNotes\nCitations\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4877595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4877595", "title": "Proportionality (law)", "text": "Proportionality (law)\n\nProportionality is a general principle in law which covers several special (although related) concepts. The concept of proportionality is used as a criterion of fairness and justice in statutory interpretation processes, especially in constitutional law, as a logical method intended to assist in discerning the correct balance between the restriction imposed by a corrective measure and the severity of the nature of the prohibited act. Within criminal law, it is used to convey the idea that the punishment of an offender should fit the crime. Under international humanitarian law governing the legal use of force in an armed conflict, \"proportionality\" and \"distinction\" are important factors in assessing military necessity.\n\nThe principle of guilt is an absolute standard on which the 17th century Bloody Code of England emerged, which specified the death penalty even for minor crimes. \n\nIn the 18th century Cesare Beccaria published On Crimes and Punishments which was to form the basis of penology based on the relative standard of culpability. As a result Jeremy Bentham developed the idea of the panopticon in which prisoners would simply be watched, rather than subjected to corporal punishment. The idea in practice became a cruel and ineffective corrective.\n\nA more sophisticated concept of proportionality that was testable in law was first developed in the High State Administrative Courts (\"Oberlandesgericht\") in Germany in the late 19th century, to review actions by the police.\n\nThe proportionality test originated systematically with the jurisprudence of the German Constitutional Court, the Bundesverfassungsgericht.\n\nIn European Union law there are generally acknowledged to be four stages to a proportionality test, namely,\n\nIt is, however, often seen that the third and fourth criterion are often merged into one by the European Court of Justice, depending on the margin of discretion that the Court sees as being afforded to the member state. Examples are found in \"R (Seymour-Smith) v Secretary of State for Employment\", where the ECJ points out that a member state has some discretion in the policies it pursues, surrounding unfair dismissal, in reducing unemployment. Further examples of the proportionality test are seen in \"Mangold v Helm\" and \"Kücükdeveci v Swedex GmbH & Co KG\".\n\nWhile the European Union has placed a consistent focus on the proportionality test in the context of policy issues, namely human rights, the proportionality test in the Australian context is a matter of constitutional interpretation with respect to legislative power under the Constitution. Unlike Europe, the proportionality test as a means to characterize whether Commonwealth legislation falls under a head of power under section 51 of the Constitution of Australia, has attracted divergent viewpoints, in which Kirby J has remarked that the 'test has not enjoyed universal favour'. However, Dixon CJ made clear that 'the question is essentially one of connexion, not appropriateness of proportionality, and where a sufficient connexion is established, it is not for the Court to judge whether the law is inappropriate or disproportionate'.\n\nIn criminal law, the principle of proportional justice is used to describe the idea that the punishment of a certain crime should be in proportion to the severity of the crime itself. In practice, systems of law differ greatly on the application of this principle. In some systems, this was interpreted as \"lex talionis\", (an eye for an eye). In others, it has led to a more restrictive manner of sentencing. For example, all European Union countries have accepted as a treaty obligation that no crime warrants the death penalty, whereas some other countries in the world do use it.\n\nIn self-defense cases, the amount of force employed by the defender must be proportionate to the threatened aggressive force. If deadly force is used to defend against non-deadly force, the harm inflicted by the actor (death or serious bodily harm) will be greater than the harm avoided (less than serious bodily harm). Even if deadly force is proportionate, its use must be necessary. Otherwise, unlawful conduct will only be justified when it involves the lesser harm of two harmful choices. If countering with non-deadly force or with no force at all avoids the threatened harm, defensive use of deadly force is no longer the lesser evil of only two choices. Alternatives involving still less societal harm are available.\n\nIn United States Law, the United States Supreme Court proposed the Proportionality Doctrine in three cases during the 1980s, namely \"Enmund v. Florida\" (1982), \"Solem v. Helm\" (1983) and \"Tison v. Arizona\" (1987), to clarify this key principle of proportionality within the Cruel and Unusual Punishment Clause of the Eighth Amendment. The fundamental principle behind proportionality is that the punishment should fit the crime. In 1983, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that courts must do three things to decide whether a sentence is proportional to a specific crime:\n\n\nProportionality is also present in other areas of municipal law, such as civil procedure. For example, it is embodied in Fed.R.Civ.P. 26(b)(2)(C), which considers whether the burden or expense of the proposed discovery outweighs its likely benefit. Proportionality is a key consideration in the discovery process, and has been applied to e-discovery, where it has been attributed with significant cost-savings. It is likely that proportionality will be applied to new and developing areas of law, such as the law of legal technology.\n\nThe harm caused to civilians or civilian property must be proportional and not \"excessive in relation to the concrete and direct military advantage anticipated\" by an attack on a military objective.\n\nLuis Moreno-Ocampo was the Chief Prosecutor at the International Criminal Court who investigated allegations of war crimes during the 2003 invasion of Iraq. He published an open letter containing his findings; in a section titled \"Allegations concerning War Crimes\", he elucidates this use of \"proportionality\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19991106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19991106", "title": "Redistributive change", "text": "Redistributive change\n\nRedistributive change is a legal theory of economic justice in the context of U.S. law that promotes the recognition of poverty as a classification, like race, ethnicity, gender, and religion, that should likewise draw extra scrutiny from the courts in matters pertaining to civil rights.\n\nThe theory was discussed in academia in the wake of \"Goldberg v. Kelly\", a 1970 U.S. Supreme Court case, which decided that due process, such as a notice and a fair hearing, were required when dealing with the deprivation of a government benefit (such as a medical license) or an entitlement (such as welfare payments). However, attempts to promote redistributive change through the courts gained no traction, and the result of \"Goldberg v. Kelly\" was, thus, limited in scope. \n\nOne of the goals, in light of \"Brown v. Board of Education\", was to promote equality in school funding, but this was specifically rejected by the Supreme Court in \"San Antonio Independent School District v. Rodriguez\" (1973), which ruled that there was no inherent right to education in the United States.\n\nA discussion among two law professors and Illinois State Senator and law lecturer Barack Obama on the topic of civil rights aired on Chicago Public Radio's Odyssey program in 2001. Obama declared in the discussion that redistributive change needs to come through legislation, not the courts, and lamented that the civil rights movement failed to pursue political means to bring such a change about. As a result of Obama's candidacy in the 2008 U.S. Presidential election, the matter became a campaign issue during the final week of the election, fueling a charge made by his opponent, U.S. Senator John McCain, that Obama was a closet socialist.\n\n"}
{"id": "43829066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43829066", "title": "Rigid Constitution", "text": "Rigid Constitution\n\nRigid Constitution is a constitution which stands above the other laws of the country, while flexible constitutions do not.\n\nA. V. Dicey defines a rigid constitution as one under which certain laws, called \"constitutional laws\" or \"fundamental laws\" \"cannot be changed in the same manner as ordinary laws.\" A rigid constitution set forth \"specific legal/constitutional obstacles to be overcome\" before it may be amended, such as special approval of the people by referendum, a supermajority or special majority in the legislature, or both. In contrast, a flexible constitution is one in which the legislature may amended the constitution's content and principles through use of the ordinary legislative process. For example, the Constitution of Australia is rigid, while the British Constitution and the Israeli Constitution are flexible.\n\n"}
{"id": "25011536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25011536", "title": "Shyster (expert system)", "text": "Shyster (expert system)\n\nSHYSTER is a legal expert system developed at the Australian National University in Canberra in 1993. It was written as the doctoral dissertation of James Popple under the supervision of Robin Stanton, Roger Clarke, Peter Drahos, and Malcolm Newey. A full technical report of the expert system, and a book further detailing its development and testing have also been published.\n\nSHYSTER emphasises its pragmatic approach, and posits that a legal expert system need not be based upon a complex model of legal reasoning in order to produce useful advice. Although SHYSTER attempts to model the way in which lawyers argue with cases, it does not attempt to model the way in which lawyers decide which cases to use in those arguments. SHYSTER is of a general design, permitting its operation in different legal domains. It was designed to provide advice in areas of case law that have been specified by a legal expert using a bespoke specification language. Its knowledge of the law is acquired, and represented, as information about cases. It produces its advice by examining, and arguing about, the similarities and differences between cases. It derives its name from Shyster: a slang word for someone who acts in a disreputable, unethical, or unscrupulous way, especially in the practice of law and politics.\n\nSHYSTER is a specific example of a general category of legal expert systems, broadly defined as systems that make use of artificial intelligence (AI) techniques to solve legal problems. Legal AI systems can be divided into two categories: legal retrieval systems and legal analysis systems. SHYSTER belongs to the latter category of legal analysis systems. Legal analysis systems can be further subdivided into two categories: judgment machines and legal expert systems. SHYSTER again belongs to the latter category of legal expert systems. A legal expert system, as Popple uses the term, is a system capable of performing at a level expected of a lawyer: “AI systems which merely assist a lawyer in coming to legal conclusions or preparing legal arguments are not here considered to be legal expert systems; a legal expert system must exhibit some legal expertise itself.\"\n\nDesigned to operate in more than one legal domain, and be of specific use to the common law of Australia, SHYSTER accounts for statute law, case law, and the doctrine of precedent in areas of private law. Whilst it accommodates statute law, it is primarily a case-based system, in contradistinction to rule-based systems like MYCIN. More specifically, it was designed in a manner enabling it to be linked with a rule-based system to form a hybrid system. Although case-based reasoning possesses an advantage over rule-based systems by the elimination of complex semantic networks, it suffers from intractable theoretical obstacles: without some further theory it cannot be predicted what features of a case will turn out to be relevant. Users of SHYSTER therefore require some legal expertise.\n\nRichard Susskind argues that “jurisprudence can and ought to supply the models of law and legal reasoning that are required for computerized [sic] implementation in the process of building all expert systems in law.” Popple, however, believes jurisprudence is of limited value to developers of legal expert systems. He posits that a lawyer must have a model of the law (maybe unarticulated) which includes assumptions about the nature of law and legal reasoning, but that model need not rest on basic philosophical foundations. It may be a pragmatic model, developed through experience within the legal system. Many lawyers perform their work with little or no jurisprudential knowledge, and there is no evidence to suggest that they are worse, or better, at their jobs than lawyers well-versed in jurisprudence. The fact that many lawyers have mastered the process of legal reasoning, without having been immersed in jurisprudence, suggests that it may indeed be possible to develop legal expert systems of good quality without jurisprudential insight. As a pragmatic legal expert system SHYSTER is the embodiment of this belief.\n\nA further example of SHYSTER’s pragmatism is its simple knowledge representation structure. This structure was designed to facilitate specification of different areas of case law using a specification language. Areas of case law are specified in terms of the cases and attributes of importance in those areas. SHYSTER weights its attributes and checks for dependence between them. In order to choose cases upon which to construct its opinions, SHYSTER calculates distances between cases and uses these distances to determine which of the leading cases are nearest to the instant case. To this end SHYSTER can be seen to adopt and expand upon nearest neighbor search methods used in pattern recognition. These nearest cases are used to produce an argument (based on similarities and differences between the cases) about the likely outcome in the instant case. This argument relies on the doctrine of precedent; it assumes that the instant case will be decided the same way as was the nearest case. SHYSTER then uses information about these nearest cases to construct a report. The report that SHYSTER generates makes a prediction and justifies that prediction by reference only to cases and their similarities and differences: the calculations that SHYSTER performs in coming to its opinion do not appear in that opinion. Safeguards are employed to warn users if SHYSTER doubts the veracity of its advice.\n\nSHYSTER was tested in four different and disparate areas of case law. Four specifications were written, each representing an area of Australian law: an aspect of the law of trover; the meaning of “authorization [sic]” in Australian copyright law; the categorisation of employment contracts; and the implication of natural justice in administrative decision-making. SHYSTER was evaluated under five headings: its usefulness, its generality, the quality of its advice, its limitations, and possible enhancements that could be made to it. Despite its simple knowledge representation structure, it has shown itself capable of producing good advice, and its simple structure has facilitated the specification of different areas of law.\n\nAppreciating the difficulties encountered by legal expert systems developers in adequately representing legal knowledge can assist in appreciating the shortcomings of digital rights management technologies. Some academics believe future digital rights management systems may become sophisticated enough to permit exceptions to copyright law. To this end SHYSTER's attempt to model “authorization [sic]” in the Copyright Act can be viewed as pioneering work in this field. The term “authorization [sic]” is undefined in the Copyright Act. Consequently, a number of cases have been before the courts seeking answers as to what conduct amounts to authorisation. The main contexts in which the issue has arisen are analogous to permitted exceptions to copyright currently prevented by most digital rights management technologies: “home taping of recorded materials, photocopying in educational institutions and performing works in public”. When applied to one case concerning compact cassettes, SHYSTER successfully agreed that Amstrad did not authorise the infringement.\n\nPopple highlighted the most obvious avenue of future research using SHYSTER as the development of a rule-based system, and the linking together of that rule-based system with the existing case-based system to form a hybrid system. This intention was eventually realised by Thomas O’Callaghan, the creator of SHYSTER-MYCIN: a hybrid legal expert system first presented at ICAIL '03, 24–28 June 2003 in Edinburgh, Scotland.\n\nMYCIN is an existing medical expert system, which was adapted for use with SHYSTER. MYCIN’s controversial “certainty factor” is not used in SHYSTER-MYCIN. The reason for this is the difficulty in scientifically establishing how certain a fact is in a legal domain. The rule-based approach of the MYCIN part is used to reason with the provisions of an Act of Parliament only. This hybrid system enables the case-based system (SHYSTER) to determine open textured concepts when required by the rule-based system (MYCIN). The ultimate conclusion of this joint endeavour is that a hybrid approach is preferred in the creation of legal expert systems where “it is appropriate to use rule-based reasoning when dealing with statutes, and…case-based reasoning when dealing with cases”.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9119224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9119224", "title": "Supreme Court clinic", "text": "Supreme Court clinic\n\nA Supreme Court Clinic is a law school clinic that provides hands-on legal experience in Supreme Court Litigation to law students. Clinics are usually directed by clinical professors and experienced Supreme Court litigators and typically represent indigent or non-profit clients in the Supreme Court of the United States. Assistance is provided pro bono.\n\nSupreme Court Clinics exist at Stanford Law School, New York University Law School, Yale Law School, Harvard Law School, The University of Virginia School of Law, The University of Texas School of Law, Emory University School of Law, George Mason University School of Law, Northwestern University Law School, Southwestern Law School, and University of Pennsylvania Law School. Supreme Court clinics generally file amicus briefs (\"friend of the Court briefs\"); petitions for certiorari, which are formal requests to the Court to decide a case; and merits briefs, which are formal legal arguments presented to the Court after it as agreed to take a case. Typically, experienced Supreme Court litigators help run the clinics. It is these litigators who represent the clinics before the Court during oral arguments.\n\nThe first Supreme Court Clinic was founded at Stanford Law School in 2004 and, by March 2006, the Supreme Court had agreed to hear five cases the clinic helped file and declined to hear three. The Supreme Court Litigation Clinic at NYU School of Law was formed in Fall 2007. The Supreme Court Clinic at the University of Texas School of Law was formed in Fall 2006; the Yale Supreme Court Advocacy Clinic was formed in Fall 2006; and the University of Virginia Supreme Court Litigation Clinic was formed in Fall 2006. Harvard Law School announced that it will launch a Supreme Court Clinic in Fall 2007. The University of Pennsylvania opened its Supreme Court Clinic Fall 2009. The Emory Law School Supreme Court Advocacy Project, the first largely student-run Supreme Court Clinic, started in Fall 2010. Since then, Supreme Court clinics have popped up at the law schools of UCLA, and West Virginia University.\n\n"}
{"id": "1098966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1098966", "title": "Taxable wages", "text": "Taxable wages\n\nTaxable Wages, in payroll, is the sum of all earnings by an employee that are eligible for a particular type of tax. Each tax is different and has different regulations about limits to the amount of wages that can be considered taxable with respect to that tax.\n\nA common example, the Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA) tax in the United States had, in 2004, a taxable wage limit of $7,000. As described on the form which records information for this tax paid by employers, U.S. Internal Revenue Service form 940, only the first $7,000 of wages earned by each employee can be considered for the FUTA tax.\nIn this example, Joe Spittle earns $8500. Since this is higher than the limit of FUTA for taxable wages, which is $7,000, the FUTA tax calculated for Joe cannot be calculated against any more than the limit of $7,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "29524057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29524057", "title": "Texas Review of Entertainment &amp; Sports Law", "text": "Texas Review of Entertainment &amp; Sports Law\n\nThe Texas Review of Entertainment & Sports Law is a student-edited biannual law review at the University of Texas School of Law. It covers issues related to law that affects the entertainment and sports industries.\n\nThe journal began in 1997, consisting only of student notes included as a supplement to \"The State Bar of Texas Entertainment and Sports Law Journal\", published by the Entertainment and Sports Law Section of the State Bar of Texas. It became an independent journal in 2000.\n\nOn March 25, 2010, the journal held its first annual symposium. The subject was the expiring collective bargaining agreements in the National Basketball Association and the National Football League.\n\n"}
{"id": "26905883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26905883", "title": "Threatening terrorism against the United States", "text": "Threatening terrorism against the United States\n\nThreatening terrorism against the United States is a class C felony punishable by 10 years imprisonment under . The elements of the offense are that someone willfully threatens to commit a crime that will result in death or great bodily harm; the threat is made with the specific intent that it be taken as a threat; the threat is so unequivocal, unconditional, and specific as to convey a gravity of purpose and immediate prospect of execution; the threat actually causes fear in the victim; and the fear is reasonable.\n\nLaws governing such threats were passed after the September 11, 2001 attacks. The law was amended by the Terrorist Hoax Improvements Act of 2007. False information and hoaxes pertaining to attacks on U.S. officials, government buildings, airplanes, etc. are also punishable under as a class D felony, which is punishable by 5 years imprisonment.\n\n"}
{"id": "198969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198969", "title": "United States Uniformed Services Oath of Office", "text": "United States Uniformed Services Oath of Office\n\nAll officers of the seven uniformed services of the United States swear or affirm an oath of office upon commissioning. It differs slightly from that of the oath of enlistment that enlisted members recite when they enter the service. It is required by statute, the oath being prescribed by Section 3331, Title 5, United States Code. It is traditional for officers to recite the oath upon promotion but as long as the officer's service is continuous this is not required.\n\nThe oath is for an indeterminate period; no duration is specifically defined.\n\nOfficers of the National Guard of the various States, however, take an additional oath:\n\nCommissioned officers (O-1 (second lieutenant or ensign) through O-10 (general or admiral) and W-2 through W-5 (chief warrant officers)) are commissioned under the authority of the President of the United States with the advice and consent of the United States Senate; warrant officers (W-1) receive a warrant under the authority of their respective service secretary (e.g., the Secretary of the Army or the Secretary of the Navy); National Guard officers are additionally committed to the authority of the governor of their state. They may be activated in the service of their state in time of local or state emergency in addition to federal activation. Reserve officers may only be activated by the President of the United States.\n\nThe first oaths of office were given to those serving under the Continental Army, beginning in 1775. A candidate had to not only name the 13 states, but also swear to keep them \"free, independent and sovereign states and declare no allegiance to George the third, king of Great Britain” as well as “defend the United States against King George, his heirs and successors, and his and their abettors, assistants and adherents.”\n\nIt was first updated in September 1776, after the Declaration of Independence, to swear to be “true to the United States of America, and to serve them honestly and faithfully against all their enemies opposers whatsoever; and to observe and obey the orders of the Continental Congress and the orders of the Generals and officers set over me by them.”\n\nThis was changed in 1789 to place allegiance to the Constitution of the United States at the beginning of the oath. It would remain relatively unchanged until the 1860s. At this point, the reference to \"them\" was replaced with \"it\" to reflect both the realities of the states divided during the American Civil War but also the shifting attitude of viewing the United States as one entity rather than a collection of smaller ones.\n\nIn 1884, it was simplified to having the candidate “solemnly swear (or affirm) to support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign or domestic; to bear true faith and allegiance to the same; to take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and to well and faithfully discharge the duties of the office on which I am about to enter. So help me God.”\n\nThis would be the oath until 1959, when it found its current form.\n"}
{"id": "44174825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44174825", "title": "Vena Pointer", "text": "Vena Pointer\n\nVena Pointer (1880 – 1971), was Colorado's first female water lawyer. She was born in Kansas and moved to Colorado in 1911 after she took a job working in George Wallis' law firm. Throughout her career, Pointer worked as a prominent member of Colorado's water community and served as one of the original board members of the Colorado Water Conservation Board when it was founded in 1937.\n\nPointer was the last person in Colorado to be admitted to the bar under the practice of clerkship. Clerkship was a system in which, a person would read the law, rather than attended law school, in preparation for admittance to the bar. Pointer read the law for seven years and passed her examination in 1926, making her Colorado's first female water lawyer. Following her admitance to the bar, Pointer worked with her law partner Fred Sabin in Pueblo, Colorado till his death in 1931.\n\nThroughout her career, Pointer served as distinguished member of the Colorado water community. She served as the secretary of the Arkansas Valley Ditch Association from 1919–1959. During her career, Pointer worked on projects that attempted to solve and settle water disputes between Colorado and Kansas on the Arkansas River. In part, her work was central to development of the Arkansas River Compact. Signed in 1949 the Arkansas River Compact settled a number of disputes over water rights between Kansas and Colorado that had existed since 1901.\n\nIn part, her prominenence in Colorado water law led Governor Edwin C. Johnson to appoint Pointer to serve as a member of the 1933 Caddoa Commission. This commission was tasked with studying the feasibility of constructing a flood-control reservoir near the small town of Caddoa, Colorado. The construction of the Caddoa dam and reservoir represented one way to develop new water supplies for the Arkansas River, while also providing flood and irrigation control to Kansas' water users. Construction on the dam began in 1940 and in the same year it was renamed the John Martin Reservoir, after Senator John A. Martin.\n\n"}
