{"id": "39435730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39435730", "title": "Adrian Room", "text": "Adrian Room\n\nAdrian Richard West Room (27 September 1933, Melksham – 6 November 2010, Stamford) was a British toponymist and onomastician, a Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society and a prolific author of reference works relating primarily to the origins of word and place-names.\n\nBetween 1952 and 1979, Room served in the Royal Naval Reserve, Special Branch, retiring as a Lieutenant Commander. Before becoming a full-time author, he was employed at King's College School, Cambridge, where he taught modern languages and was a senior house master. He later, until 1984, worked as a senior lecturer in Russian for the British Defence Ministry.\n"}
{"id": "19067707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19067707", "title": "Alpine-steppe", "text": "Alpine-steppe\n\nThe Alpine-steppe is a high altitude natural alpine grassland, which is a part of the Montane grasslands and shrublands biome.\n\nAlpine-steppes are unique ecosystems found throughout the world, especially in Asia, where they make up 38.9% of the total Tibetan plateau grassland's area.\n\nAlpine grasslands, like the Alpine-steppe, are characterized by their intense radiation, with direct solar radiation periods averaging 2916 hours annually. The average temperature in this ecosystem is very low. For example, they may experience temperatures around −10 °C in winter, and 10 °C in summer. Winters also tend to be long and cold, and summers are mild and short. This ecosystem also experiences year-long frost, with no reported frost-free season.\n\nThe annual rates of precipitation in Alpine-steppes are very low, with mean ranges falling anywhere between 280 and 300 mm. In addition, upwards to 80% of this falls between the months of May and September, causing the climate to be arid or semi-arid, making the environment much harsher for plant and livestock life.\n\nVegetation in the alpine steppe is very vulnerable to climate change. Average air temperature has been increasing by approximately 0.3 degrees Celsius every ten years since the 1960s. This is three times the global average, indicating the sensitivity of this area. Studies have been done that show that the spread of vegetation has changed dramatically since the Holocene period. The Tibetan Plateau is composed of three main regions, based on yearly precipitation levels and types of vegetation, namely the alpine meadow, alpine steppe, and the alpine desert-steppe. Since the Holocene, studies of fossil pollen records have shown that the alpine meadow has extended into areas that were previously alpine steppe as precipitation increased during that period. There is a unimodal pattern across precipitation and vegetation rain use efficiency (RUE), with an increasing trend in Alpine-steppe regions. RUE is lower here compared to the alpine meadow because of differences in species richness, soil texture, and soil carbon content.\n\nChanges in vegetation have been used recently as an indicator of grassland degradation in the Tibetan Plateau, along with land desertification and decreased overall productivity. Vegetation shifts from non-poisonous to poisonous plants seem to correlate with increased land degradation. Plants defined as poisonous in the alpine grasslands area include species such as locoweed, which is known to be very invasive. Not only are poisonous plants an indicator of decline, they result in increased mortality of grazing animals. This invasion of poisonous species is spread across all regions of the Tibetan Plateau, but the alpine steppe is the most affected area.\n\nThe Tibetan Plateau is an extremely important area for livestock farming, and historically overgrazing has been as issue with regard to the sustainability of the vegetation in the area. Measures have been taken to regulate the use of these grasslands, including the implementation of protected or ‘fenced areas’. While these measures are certainly a step in the right direction as far as sustainability legislation, they have not been shown to have a very strong effect on the above ground net primary productivity (ANPP).\n\nBased on studies done in the alpine steppe region of the Tibetan Plateau, different soil nutrients have differential effects on the nutrient composition and uptake of plants in the area. Soil phosphorus seems to have a much more significant impact on the nitrogen:phosphorus ratio in plants than soil nitrogen does. This type of finding can have implications for different nutrient conservation strategies among plant species in the same community, as plants seem to be more sensitive to changes in soil phosphorus than nitrogen, though nitrogen is still extremely important. What also makes this interesting is the fact that nitrogen is a limiting factor for plant growth, and so is actually critical for the overall health of the plant community. Grazing of herd animals has been shown to have a positive effect on the levels of nitrogen in the soil, though the return of nitrogen in the excrement. The addition of dung to the soils of this region in a laboratory setting resulted in increased availability of ammonia for plants (their primary nitrogen source). However, in an unaltered system, soil nitrogen tends to be more constant, whereas soil phosphorus is more influenced by climate variation, which may explain why, even though nitrogen is the limiting factor, phosphorus can be a greater influence on the N:P ratio of plant nutrients. alpine grassland temperature range from 14 degrees Fahrenheit in winter to 50 degrees Fahrenheit in summer\n\nBecause of their elevation, alpine regions are thought to experience higher rates of warming, causing them to be more sensitive and vulnerable to global climate change. Other major threats to Alpine-Steppes include overgrazing, as well as land use change associated with increases in population size. Because of this, the authorities in areas throughout China are under pressure to implement programs to protect and preserve this fragile ecosystem.\n\nOne such program is the \"Retire Livestock and Restore Pastures\" initiative, which requires the use of special enclosure fencing. The purpose of this protective fencing is to prevent the grazing activity of large livestock, like sheep, yaks, and goats, in an attempt to restore the degraded biomass, and maintain ecosystem function. Often these effects can best be seen by the changes they produce in the biogeochemical properties of the soil. The overall goal is to improve ecosystem carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus storage, by increasing both vegetation and soil pools of these elements. This effect is crucial because even a small percent change in carbon storage can have a huge positive impact on atmospheric carbon dioxide and global carbon levels, as well as ecosystem sustainability. But carbon is not the only important factor. Low levels of nitrogen and phosphorus have also been found to limit plant growth and net primary productivity. In one study, exclusion fencing was found to increase the carbon stored in the biomass, as well as the nitrogen and phosphorus in the above-ground biomass. However this effect was minor, and not enough to compensate for the considerable loss of carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus pools from the soil surface layer. Another study found exclusion fencing to be a beneficial tool in lowering carbon dioxide emissions, and increasing methane consumption, which improves both the soil carbon and nitrogen stores. Although findings are controversial, enclosure fencing remains a common practice in China because of the sensitivity of these grassland areas.\n\nAt an elevation of 4,500–6,000 m, Northern Tibet's area is covered by approximately 94% grasslands, including the alpine-steppe and alpine meadow. The alpine-steppe in this area has less than 20% vegetation coverage, which consists mainly of \"Stipa purpurea\", \"Artemisia capillaris\" Thunb, and \"Rhodiola rotundaia\" assemblages. Compared to the alpine meadow, the alpine-steppe is cooler, arid or semi-arid, with little precipitation and barren soils. The highest vegetation carbon pool can be found in August, and nitrogen and phosphorus concentrations in the area exhibit seasonal variations throughout the growing period.\n\n"}
{"id": "37093440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37093440", "title": "Apple Maps", "text": "Apple Maps\n\nApple Maps (or simply Maps) is a web mapping service developed by Apple Inc. It is the default map system of iOS, macOS, and watchOS. It provides directions and estimated times of arrival for automobile, pedestrian, and public transportation navigation. Apple Maps also features \"Flyover\" mode, a feature that enables a user to explore certain densely populated urban centers and other places of interest in a 3D landscape composed of models of buildings and structures.\n\nOn September 19, 2012, Apple released its mapping service in iOS, replacing Google Maps as the default mapping service for Apple operating systems. In the initial launch, it received large amounts of criticism from users and newspapers for incorrect directions, a lack of support for public transportation users and various other bugs and errors. Since its introduction, further software development has addressed many of those criticisms.\n\nOn June 11, 2012, during the Apple Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC), Apple announced the initial release of Apple Maps and revealed that the application would replace Google Maps as the default web mapping service in iOS 6 and beyond. Apple also announced that the application would include turn-by-turn navigation, 3D maps, Flyovers, and the virtual assistant Siri. Furthermore, Apple stated that iPhone users would be able to navigate Apple Maps while in the locked screen. The mapping service was released on September 19, 2012. Following the launch, Apple Maps was heavily criticized, which resulted in a public apology by Apple CEO Tim Cook in late September and the departure of two key employees of Apple. (See also §Early inaccuracy)\n\nBefore Apple Maps launched as the default mapping application in iOS, Google Maps held this position since the first generation iPhone release in 2007. In late 2009, tensions between Google and Apple started to grow when the Android version of Google Maps featured turn-by-turn navigation, a feature which the iOS version lacked. At the time, Apple argued that Google collected too much user data. When Apple made iOS 6 available, Google Maps could only be accessed by iOS 6 users via the web. Although Google did not immediately launch a mapping application of its own, shortly after the announcement of Apple Maps, Google did add an equivalent of Apple Maps' Flyover feature to its virtual globe application Google Earth. Three months later, in December 2012, Google Maps was released in the App Store. This version of Google Maps, unlike the previous version, featured turn-by-turn navigation. Shortly after it was launched, Google Maps was the most popular free application in the App Store.\n\nSpeculation around Apple creating a mapping service of its own arose in 2009 after computer magazine \"Computerworld\" reported that Apple had acquired the company Placebase, an online mapping service, in July of that year. Since then, the CEO of Placebase became a part of Apple's \"Geo Team\". In the following two years, Apple acquired two more mapping related companies who specialized in 3D maps: Poly9 in 2010 and C3 Technologies in 2011. C3 Technologies' imagery was later used for the Flyovers feature in Apple Maps. Earlier in 2011, Apple indicated its plan for a mapping service when it stated on its website that it was collecting location data to create \"an improved traffic service in the next couple of years\" for iPhone users. In September 2012, when Apple Maps was released, a source connected to both Google and Apple Maps claimed to technology website \"TechCrunch\" that Apple was recruiting Google employees that worked on Google Maps.\n\nIn the first year after its release, Apple Maps received a number of improvements which solved various errors in the application. Other changes included adding more satellite imagery and making the navigation available in more cities. In 2013, Apple also acquired a few companies to improve Apple Maps, namely HopStop, Embark, WifiSlam, and Locationary, as well as the team and the technology of the company BroadMap. HopStop and Embark both specialized in mapping public transportation, WifiSlam specialized in interior maps, Locationary provided accurate company data for mapping services, and BroadMap managed, sorted, and analyzed map data.\n\nDuring WWDC in June 2013, Apple announced the new version of Apple Maps in iOS 7. This new version had a new look and icon. A number of new functions were also implemented, including full-screen mode, night mode, real-time traffic information, navigation for pedestrians, and the Frequent Locations feature. The latter feature, which can be switched on and off, was introduced to record the most frequently visited destinations by users in order to improve Apple Maps. In addition, new satellite imagery was added once again. On September 18, 2013, Apple released iOS 7. At that time, the new iPhone 5S included a new motion coprocessor, the M7, which can identify whether a user is walking or driving in order to adjust the navigation mode.\n\nDuring that same conference, Apple announced that a desktop version of the application would be made available for OS X Mavericks. On October 22, 2013, Apple released OS X Mavericks and the desktop version of Apple Maps. The desktop version was similar to that in iOS 7, but it connected with the Contacts and Calendar applications. Additionally, the desktop version enabled users to send locations and directions to other devices with iOS. In June of the following year, Apple acquired the company Spotsetter, a social search engine that gave personalized recommendations for places to visit. Since the acquisition, most of its employees now work at Apple.\n\nOn September 17, 2014, the successor of iOS 7, iOS 8, became available. Later that year, on October, 16, Apple released OS X Yosemite. Neither update brought any major modifications to Apple Maps. However, the feature \"City Tours\" was introduced to both iOS and OS X. This function made it possible for the user to be guided through locations with Flyovers. Also, Apple Maps results were shown in the search feature Spotlight in OS X Yosemite. Later in 2014, Apple news website \"9to5Mac\" reported that in the previous months a number of Apple Maps employees, including a key employee, had left the company to work for Uber. In the next year, Apple Maps was added to the operating system of the new Apple Watch, which was released on April 24, 2015. The smartwatch version of Apple Maps features turn-by-turn navigation. The app indicates navigation instructions by taps on the user's wrist.\n\nDuring WWDC on June 8, 2015, Craig Federighi, Apple's senior vice president of Software Engineering, announced that the new version of Apple Maps in iOS 9 would have information about public transportation in a number of global cities. The function also became available for OS X El Capitan and watchOS 2. In addition, Apple added the function \"Nearby\", which shows nearby points of interest in several categories. With the update, the application chooses a detour in case of a traffic delay. The three new versions of the operating systems became available in September 2015. In addition to these new releases, Apple acquired a few companies in 2015 in order to improve the mapping application even further. In the spring, Apple also acquired Coherent Navigation, that provides precise location data through High Integrity GPS, and the startup company Mapsense later that year. The latter had developed software to organize large amounts of location data.\n\nIn 2016, Apple Maps opened a new development center and it was updated for watchOS and iOS. The application was improved when watchOS 2.2 came out in March 2016. Apple Maps was renewed in the new version of the operating system and received a number of new features, including \"Nearby\" which had previously been exclusive to iOS. Four months later, Apple CEO Tim Cook inaugurated a new office in partnership with IT company RMSI, Noida, at the WaveRock campus in the Indian city Hyderabad. The development center focusses on the development of Apple Maps and employs 4,000 people. According to \"ZDNet\", the office cost US$25 million. In September, iOS 10 was released. The update of the Apple's mobile operating system was accompanied by a new design of Apple Maps. Moreover, the application was opened up to developers and gained a few features: it makes suggestions for places to go based on earlier usage of the app, it can remember the location where the user parked their vehicle, it allows a user to filter search suggestions, and the turn-by-turn navigation was improved. The navigation automatically zooms in and out, shows traffic ahead, and allows users to search for points of interests along the route. These features are available for CarPlay as well.\n\nIn early 2018, Apple announced Maps can help users find bike-sharing stations in over 175 cities across 36 countries, for example: San Francisco (GoBike), New York (Citi Bike), Montreal (BIXI), London (Santander), Paris (Velib) and Brisbane (CityCycle). \n\nIn summer 2018, Maps leader Eddy Cue announced an ambitious roll-out of Apple Maps, rebuilt \"from the ground up\" using map data Apple has been quietly gathering for the past four years. New maps for the San Francisco Bay Area are promised for early July in the next iOS 12 beta, expanding to Northern California in further beta's. Updates will not, however, require iOS 12, and they will also appear on Apple Watch and Macs. Updated maps with new data are currently available in all of Northern California from iOS 12 beta 2 and up. One observer noted the updated Apple Maps contains \"a staggering amount of vegetation detail\" showing new versions of Apple Maps that display strips of grass and vegetation between roads. \n\nIn November 2018, Apple revealed on its website that it will be sending its backpack-wearing team to different locations, including Los Angeles, San Francisco and Santa Clara County in an attempt to improve Apple Maps’ walking directions along footpaths and walkways. The company will also deploy its mapping cars throughout the US and the UK to gather its own data and add details to the maps.\n\nIn early 2015, vehicles equipped with twelve cameras and lidar sensors were seen in a variety of places throughout the United States. These vehicles were owned by Apple. In June 2015, Apple stated on its website that the vehicles were collecting data to improve Apple Maps. Also, Apple claimed to secure privacy by making faces and license plates unrecognizable. In 2018 Apple confirmed in an article that it was rebuilding Apple Maps, with the first results rolled out in California. According to the company, Apple's vehicles have driven through the following countries:\n\nApple Maps uses vector graphics, which allows the application to use less data than competitor Google Maps. The map has four available layers: regular map, satellite view, hybrid view (a combination of regular and satellite view), and public transit view. The main provider of map data is TomTom, but data is also supplied by Automotive Navigation Data, Hexagon AB, Intermap Technologies, OpenStreetMap, and Waze. Apple renewed their agreement with TomTom in 2015. TomTom is the parent company of Tele Atlas, which is also used by Apple Maps' competitor, Google Maps. The satellite imagery comes from DigitalGlobe. iPhones located in China use data from AutoNavi instead.\n\nApple Maps can be used to plan routes. The navigation service features turn-by-turn navigation with spoken instructions for vehicles, pedestrians, and public transportation. According to Apple, the navigation function is available in 56 countries worldwide. Apple Maps can also be used to see real-time traffic information. In addition, Apple's virtual assistant, Siri, is integrated into Apple Maps. The map displays points of interest provided by approximately twenty companies, including Booking.com, Foursquare, TripAdvisor, and Yelp. The data from Foursquare was added in late 2015. Users can drop pins on the map to save places for later retrieval. The satellite view features Flyovers, three-dimensional satellite views, in designated locations.\n\nWith Flyover, certain locations — mainly the big cities and landmarks — can be seen from a bird's-eye perspective. The three-dimensional views are photo-realistic and users can change the perspective. Flyover has been available since the first release of Apple Maps. A number of cities with Flyovers also have \"City Tours\". With this feature, the user is guided in the Flyover view along landmarks in that location. \"City Tours\" was added to Apple Maps in iOS 8 (released on September 17, 2014) and in OS X Yosemite (released on October 16, 2014). In addition to Flyovers, around fifty cities also feature 3D maps. This feature enables the user to see three-dimensional models of structures in the map view. These models, which are not photo-realistic, can also be seen when using the turn-by-turn navigation.\n\nFlyovers are available at the following locations:\n\nThe feature \"Nearby\" is exclusive to iOS 9 and watchOS 2.2. It shows icons of different categories like \"food\" and \"transportation\" in the search menu. After clicking each icon, nearby points of interest in that category are shown with their names, distances, and reviews on Yelp. Additionally, pins appear at the locations of these places on the map. The turn-by-turn navigation can be activated with Nearby as well. When iOS 9 was launched on September 16, 2015, the function was only available in the United States and China, but had expanded to include Australia, Canada, Germany, and France by the end of October 2015. In 2016, Nearby was added to Austria, Denmark, Finland, Japan, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.\n\nThe function \"Transit\" shows the public transport networks on the map in a number of cities and their surroundings. The functionality was added to iOS 9 (released on September 16, 2015), OS X El Capitan (released on September 30), and watchOS 2 (released on September 21). Apple Maps displays the networks of buses, subways, trains, and ferries in these cities. Additionally, the mapping service includes public transit schedules and shows the locations of the entries and exits of the subway and train stations. \"Transit\" is available in the following locations and metropolitan areas:\n\nSupport for all the routes of Amtrak in the United States has been added as of October 2, 2016. The routes of NSW TrainLink in New South Wales were added in April 2016. The routes of V/Line (Regional Rail) in Victoria (Australia) were added on October 9, 2016. Transit directions were expanded across the United Kingdom, excluding Northern Ireland, on December 19, 2016. Ireland (Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland) was added on 16 October 2017.\n\niOS 11 introduced indoor maps for airports and shopping malls:\n\nApple Maps shows real-time traffic information on the map. In addition, the turn-by-turn navigation takes delays into account when calculating the estimated time of arrival and will occasionally choose a detour in case of traffic. Apple introduced this function in iOS 7 (released on September 18, 2013) and it is available in 49 countries as of June 2017. In the beginning of 2015, Consumentenbond, a Dutch organization promoting consumer rights, researched the traffic information of various navigation applications and concluded that Apple Maps gave the most false responses of all seven applications that were tested.\n\nLive traffic information is available at the following locations:\n\nIn October 2014, Apple introduced a service dubbed Apple Maps Connect. It allows small business owners to claim their business listing and edit business information, such as location and open hours. After the user logs in with their Apple ID, they are given a prompt to claim and link an Apple Maps listing to their account. The user can search through Apple's database to either locate their listing or add a missing listing to Apple's database.\n\nComScore investigated the market shares of different web mapping services in the United States using polls. Prior to the launch of Apple Maps in September 2012, there were 103.6 million Americans with iOS or Android, 81 million of which used Google Maps. According to comScore, the latter figure had dropped to 58.7 million in September 2013, a year after the release of Apple Maps. At the same time, there were 35 million American Apple Maps users and a total of 136.7 million people with iOS or Android in the United States. Out of the 60.1 million iPhone users, 8.3 million used Google Maps. However, some of those iPhone users were not able to use Apple Maps, since their devices were not updated to iOS 6. In addition, research by comScore conducted between July 2013 and February 2016 revealed that between 20% and 30% of all American smartphone users used Apple Maps — this includes users with operating systems for which Apple Maps was not compatible. During the same period, it was concluded that between 40% and 51% of American smartphone owners used the application Google Maps.\n\nFurthermore, comScore studied the market share of Apple Maps on iPhones in the United Kingdom. In September 2013, one year after its launch, more than 6.2 million of the total 10.35 million British iPhone owners used Apple Maps. Google Maps had the second largest market share on British iPhones with over 1.8 million British iPhone users.\n\nIn the second half of 2013, British Internet service provider EE Limited concluded that Apple Maps had a market share in the UK of 64% of 4G network users and 57% of 3G network users. The research involved comparing the data of the internet provider and the results of an investigation by Taylor Nelson Sofres among 1,000 users of the 4G network. However, EE Limited did not indicate how many of its users had an iPhone. According to subsequent research by EE Limited, in the first half of 2014, the market share of Apple Maps increased among iPhone users: 70% of the 4G network and 76% of the 3G network. At the turn of the year, the same values amounted to 73% and 82% respectively.\n\nApple Maps received considerable criticism after its launch on September 19, 2012, due to wrong and inaccurate information about places and points of interests. Many of these errors are now fixed.\n\nSome places were misspelled, were displayed with the wrong name, or were missing entirely. Examples of those mistakes included the Ukrainian capital Kiev, which was incorrectly spelled as \"Kylv\", the Welsh place Pontypridd, whose label was shown northeast of its actual location, and the English town Stratford-upon-Avon, which was missing altogether in Apple Maps. Also, when users looked up \"London\" they were directed to the Canadian city London instead of its namesake, the capital of the United Kingdom. Many complained about outdated or inaccurate data about companies and interesting places. For example, in the United Kingdom, chains that no longer exist were still on the maps and large stores were accidentally mapped in backyards. Furthermore, in the United States, the label of the Willis Tower was displayed in the wrong location. Apple Maps was sometimes inadequate to find companies or other points of interest at all. For instance, the London train and underground station Paddington and Tokyo Station were missing, and the Helsinki Central railway station was shown as a park. Also, parks were occasionally displayed as airports.\n\nOn several occasions, government authorities and politicians warned citizens of errors with Apple Maps. In early December 2012, the police department of the Australian city Mildura alerted people who planned to reach the city using Apple Maps, because Mildura was shown in the middle of Murray-Sunset National Park, from its actual location. The police department stated that the error was potentially life-threatening, as national park temperatures could rise to and those traveling would be without water supplies. The police rescued, at least, four people, one of whom was stranded for 24 hours. After that, the police department tried to contact Apple to solve the problem. Apple fixed the error in December 2012. Alan Shatter, the Minister for Justice and Equality and Minister of Defense of Ireland at the time, issued a warning because of a mistake in Apple Maps: a non-existent airport was shown near the Irish capital Dublin. This location was in reality a public farm called \"Airfield\". Shatter wrote in his statement that the mistake was dangerous, because a pilot could try to make an emergency landing there.\n\nAs a result of the criticism, Tim Cook, CEO of Apple Inc., published a letter of apology on Apple's website on September 28, 2012, in which he apologized for the \"frustrations\" experienced by users. He said that Apple fell short and that the company was making every effort to improve the mapping service. Cook also suggested that dissatisfied users could use rival mapping applications like Bing Maps, MapQuest, Waze, Google Maps, and Nokia Maps. Steve Jobs, former CEO of Apple Inc., had used this way of apologizing in the past. A week before the release of the letter of apology, just after the launch of Apple Maps, spokesperson Trudy Miller had stated to technology news website \"All Things Digital\" that Apple Maps was a major initiative and that they \"were just getting started with it.\" Miller also said the application would improve as more people used it.\n\nIn the aftermath of the criticism, two key employees left the company due to the problems associated with Apple Maps. The departure of Scott Forstall, senior vice president of iOS, was announced in October 2012. Sources told technology news website \"The Verge\" that he had been fired for refusing to sign Tim Cook's letter of apology. According to business magazine \"Bloomberg Businessweek,\" Richard Williamson, the person responsible for the mapping team at Apple, left the following month. He was succeeded by Eddy Cue.\n\nIn June 2016, Eddy Cue said in an interview with \"Fast Company\" that Apple \"had completely underestimated the product, the complexity of it.\" He also said the problems with Apple Maps led to \"significant changes to all of our development processes.\" After the launch of Maps, Apple started offering public betas of new versions of iOS and OS X. Furthermore, Cue commented that before Maps was launched Apple's executive team long discussed if Apple should have its own mapping service. One month later, Tim Cook looked back to the launch of Apple Maps in an interview with \"The Washington Post\" and said \"Maps was a mistake.\" He added that the company admitted its mistake and that Maps is something the company is now proud of because of the improvements.\n\nAs the primary provider of map data, TomTom has received criticism as well. Cees van Dok, TomTom's head of user experience design, in April 2013 told technology news website \"TechRadar\" that Apple was the problem. According to him, Apple was trying to combine too many sources of data to create Apple Maps.\n\nDespite fixing preliminary issues, Apple Maps has received mixed reviews, with some critics complimenting its \"Flyover\" feature and appearance of the street map, while others are criticizing its lack of features similar to those in Google Maps. \"ZDNet\" said \"[Apple Maps] had its share of problems, but Apple Maps is back with a vengeance. Powered by some jaw-dropping 3D graphics and enjoying an aggressive multi-platform strategy, Apple is finally set to redefine our geospatial expectations – and take Google down a few notches.\" An editor of \"The Street\" wrote \"But, today, and presumably after the iOS 7 update, Apple Maps has come into its own. Despite the lingering absence of transit directions (at last check, Apple still suggests Google Maps and other \"routing\" apps), I now prefer to Apple over Google.\" \"Macworld\" wrote \"Apple Maps has vastly improved since it was first launched and now we conclude the turn-by-turn navigation is a lot better than Google's offering. While there are areas that both Google and Apple can improve on, we’re certain that using Apple Maps won’t direct you to drive into the Thames and that most of the initial issues have been fixed.\" \"Thrillist\" wrote an article about \"Things Apple Maps Does Better Than Google Maps,\" praising its ability to let the user \"send directions instantly from your computer to your phone,\" \"see turn-by-turn directions from the lock screen,\" \"get more specific recommendations for nearby attractions,\" \"know which subway car to get on and which exit to use,\" \"see true-to-life details,\" and \"get seamless directions from Siri.\"\n\nTaiwan (Republic of China) was classified as a province of the People's Republic of China in the application in 2013; searches for \"Taiwan\" were changed automatically to \"China Taiwan province\" in Simplified Chinese, prompting the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to demand a correction from Apple.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6331168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6331168", "title": "Bagnold formula", "text": "Bagnold formula\n\nThe Bagnold formula, named after Ralph Alger Bagnold, relates the amount of sand moved by the wind to wind speed by saltation. It states that the mass transport of sand is proportional to the third power of the friction velocity. Under steady conditions, this implies that mass transport is proportional to the third power of the excess of the wind speed (at any fixed height over the sand surface) over the minimum wind speed that is able to activate and sustain a continuous flow of sand grains. \n\nThe formula was derived by Bagnold in 1936 and later published in his book \"The Physics of Blown Sand and Desert Dunes\" in 1941. Wind tunnel and field experiments suggest that the formula is basically correct. It has later been modified by several researchers, but is still considered to be the benchmark formula.\n\nIn its simplest form, Bagnold's formula may be expressed as:\n\nwhere \"q\" represents the mass \"transport\" of sand across a lane of unit width; \"C\" is a dimensionless constant of order unity that depends on the sand sorting; \"formula_2\" is the density of air; \"g\" is the local gravitational acceleration; \"d\" is the reference grain size for the sand; \"D\" is the nearly uniform grain size originally used in Bagnold's experiments (250 micrometres); and, finally, formula_3 is friction velocity proportional to the square root of the shear stress between the wind and the sheet of moving sand.\n\nThe formula is valid in dry (desert) conditions. The effects of sand moisture at play in most coastal dunes, therefore, are not included.\n\n"}
{"id": "45119022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45119022", "title": "Blasieholmen", "text": "Blasieholmen\n\nBlasieholmen is a peninsula in central Stockholm, Sweden. It is located east of Kungsträdgården. Originally a small island, named Käpplingen, it became a peninsula, connected to Norrmalm, during the 17th century. Among the buildings at Blasieholmen are the Nationalmuseum, hotels and office buildings. The Skeppsholmsbron bridge connects Blasieholmen to the island of Skeppsholmen.\n"}
{"id": "46446014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46446014", "title": "Camp Hazen", "text": "Camp Hazen\n\nHazen Camp is a shelter maintained and operated by Parks Canada. It contains many all-weather shelters for the park staff. The visiting researchers set up tents in the camp area. Its coordinates are 81°49'15.22'N 71°21'14.11'W \n\nHazen Camp was originally established in 1957-1958 for Operation Hazen. It was one of the most comprehensive science research projects ever in the Canadian High Arctic. Today, Hazen Camp is used as an Warden Station and an access point to Quttinirpaaq National Park.\n\nHazen Camp is situated half way along the north shore of Lake Hazen. The closest settlement is Tanquary Fiord. McGill Mountain is very close to the station, rising 1000m into the sky.\n\n"}
{"id": "4841845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4841845", "title": "Cataphile", "text": "Cataphile\n\nCataphiles are urban explorers who illegally tour the Mines of Paris, a term popularly used to describe a series of underground tunnels that were built as a network of stone mines, which are no longer used. The Catacombs of Paris comprise a subset of this network.\n\nEntrance to the mines is restricted. The portion open to the public (the catacombs) is only a small part of an extensive network of underground tunnels, which spans around in length. The tunnel system is complex, and though some tunnels have plaques indicating the name of the street above, it is easy to get lost. Some passages are low or narrow, and others are partially flooded. There are aging telephone wires, pipes, and other impediments that can hinder progress, and cave-ins, although rare, do occasionally occur. A good guide is indispensable, and many guides occasionally refer to a map. Because of these dangers, accessing the catacombs without official escort has been illegal since 2 November 1955. There is a €60 fine for people caught by the E.R.I.C - the special police who patrol the mines.\n\nSecret entrances exist throughout Paris, and it is sometimes possible to enter the mines via the sewers, metro, and certain manholes.\n\nSome unofficial visitors hold keys to certain official entrances. On rare occasions people use these access points and illegally enter the mines — for example, to meet clandestinely, to hold unusual parties, or simply as urban explorers.\n\nIn September 2004, the French police discovered an underground movie theater run by les UX — a French artistic movement that seeks to convey their ideas using underground places.\n\nCataphiles often descend for a day, a night, or perhaps a week to explore, photograph, paint murals, create maps, clean up rooms, and dig \"chatières\" (very narrow tunnels, that one can only crawl through).\n\n"}
{"id": "5934383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5934383", "title": "Coalition for Rainforest Nations", "text": "Coalition for Rainforest Nations\n\nThe Coalition for Rainforest Nations (CfRN) is an intergovernmental organization established by forested tropical counties to collaboratively reconcile forest stewardship with economic development. The Rainforest Coalition aims to bring together both developing and industrialized nations for the purpose of creating community-driven, environmentally sustainable economic growth.\n\nThe primary strategy of the Coalition is to bring about the reform of international frameworks, both legal and economic, to correct market failures that result in unsustainable outcomes, and to create economic incentives for the preservation of areas of high biodiversity and endemism worldwide. The Coalition supports the Forests Now Declaration calling for changes in the Kyoto Protocol and other international carbon markets to include land use and forestry.\n\nThe Coalition has been instrumental in the establishment of the World Bank's Forest Carbon Partnership Facility and the United Nations' UN-REDD program. Further, based upon these efforts by the Coalition, various industrialized countries (including Norway, the UK, Germany, France, Japan, Australia, Finland, and others) have currently pledged around US$3.0 billion for capacity building and incentives to reduce rates of deforestation in participating developing countries.\n\nAt the request of Prime Minister Somare, the participating nations have agreed to base the Secretariat for the Coalition for Rainforest Nations at Columbia University in the City of New York. The CfRN was formed after a speech given on May 10, 2005, at Columbia University by Sir Michael Somare, the Prime Minister of Papua New Guinea.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7917409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7917409", "title": "Communes of Mayotte", "text": "Communes of Mayotte\n\nThe French overseas department of Mayotte is divided into 17 communes.\n\nMost are located on the island of Grande Terre, except for Dzaoudzi and Pamandzi which are located on Petite Terre.\n\nSame communes, classified by decreasing area (Mayotte measures 373.24 km² in total). The average or mean size of the communes is 21.95 km², while the median size is 20.51 km², slightly higher than the average and median size of the communes of Metropolitan France (14.88 and 10.73 km² respectively).\n\nSame communes, classified by decreasing population (Mayotte counted 160,506 inhabitants in total in 2002, for an average population density of 430.0 hab./km², more than four times the national average). The average or mean population of the communes is 9,441 inhabitants, while the median population is 6,963 inhabitants, much higher than the average and median population of Metropolitan France (1,542 and 380 inhabitants respectively). Each commune generally consists of several villages.\n\n"}
{"id": "316410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=316410", "title": "Compass rose", "text": "Compass rose\n\nA compass rose, sometimes called a windrose or Rose of the Winds, is a figure on a compass, map, nautical chart, or monument used to display the orientation of the cardinal directions (north, east, south, and west) and their intermediate points. It is also the term for the graduated markings found on the traditional magnetic compass. Today, the idea of a compass rose is found on, or featured in, almost all navigation systems, including nautical charts, non-directional beacons (NDB), VHF omnidirectional range (VOR) systems, global-positioning systems (GPS), and similar equipment.\nThe modern compass rose has eight principal winds. Listed clockwise, these are:\nAlthough modern compasses use the names of the eight principal directions (N, NE, E, SE, etc.), older compasses use the traditional Italianate wind names of Medieval origin (Tramontana, Greco, Levante, etc.)\n\n4-point compass roses use only the four \"basic winds\" or \"cardinal directions\" (North, East, South, West), with angles of difference at 90°.\n\n8-point compass roses use the eight principal winds—that is, the four cardinal directions (N, E, S, W) plus the four \"intercardinal\" or \"ordinal directions\" (NE, SE, SW, NW), at angles of difference of 45°.\n\n16-point compass roses are constructed by bisecting the angles of the principal winds to come up with intermediate compass points, known as half-winds, at angles of difference of 22°. The names of the half-winds are simply combinations of the principal winds to either side, principal then ordinal. E.g. North-northeast (NNE), East-northeast (ENE), etc.\n\n32-point compass roses are constructed by bisecting these angles, and coming up with quarter-winds at 11° angles of difference. Quarter-wind names are constructed with the names \"X by Y\", which can be read as \"one quarter wind from X toward Y\", where X is one of the eight principal winds and Y is one of the two adjacent cardinal directions. For example, North-by-east (NbE) is one quarter wind from North towards East, Northeast-by-north (NEbN) is one quarter wind from Northeast toward North. Naming all 32 points on the rose is called \"boxing the compass\".\n\nThe 32-point rose has the uncomfortable number of 11° between points, but is easily found by halving divisions and may have been easier for those not using a 360° circle. Using gradians, of which there are 400 in a circle, the sixteen-point rose will have twenty-five gradians per point.\n\nLinguistic anthropological studies have shown that most human communities have four points of cardinal direction. The names given to these directions are usually derived from either locally-specific geographic features (e.g. \"towards the hills\", \"towards the sea\") or from celestial bodies (especially the sun) or from atmospheric features (winds, temperature). Most mobile populations tend to adopt sunrise and sunset for East and West and the direction from where different winds blow to denote North and South.\n\nThe ancient Greeks originally maintained distinct and separate systems of points and winds. The four Greek cardinal points (arctos, anatole, mesembria and dusis) were based on celestial bodies and used for orientation. The four Greek winds (Boreas, Notos, Eurus, Zephyrus) were confined to meteorology. Nonetheless, both systems were gradually conflated, and wind names came to eventually denote cardinal directions as well.\n\nIn his meteorological studies, Aristotle identified ten distinct winds: two north-south winds (Aparctias, Notos) and four sets of east-west winds blowing from different latitudes—the Arctic circle (Meses, Thrascias), the summer solstice horizon (Caecias, Argestes), the equinox (Apeliotes, Zephyrus) and the winter solstice (Eurus, Lips). However, Aristotle's system was asymmetric. To restore balance, Timosthenes of Rhodes added two more winds to produce the classical 12-wind rose, and began using the winds to denote geographical direction in navigation. Eratosthenes deducted two winds from Aristotle's system, to produce the classical 8-wind rose.\n\nThe Romans (e.g. Seneca, Pliny) adopted the Greek 12-wind system, and replaced its names with Latin equivalents, e.g. Septentrio, Subsolanus, Auster, Favonius, etc. Uniquely, Vitruvius came up with a 24-wind rose.\n\nAccording to the chronicler Einhard (c. 830), the Frankish king Charlemagne himself came up with his own names for the classical 12 winds. He named the four cardinal winds on the roots \"Nord\" (etymology uncertain, could be \"wet\", meaning from the rainy lands), \"Ost\" (shining place, sunrise), \"Sund\" (sunny lands) and \"Vuest\" (dwelling place, meaning evening). Intermediate winds were constructed as simple compound names of these four (e.g. \"Nordostdroni\", the \"northeasterly\" wind). These Carolingian names are the source of the modern compass point names found in nearly all modern west European languages. (e.g. North, East, South and West in English; Nord, Est, Sud, Ouest in French, etc.)\n\nThe following table gives a rough equivalence of the classical 12-wind rose with the modern compass directions (Note: the directions are imprecise since it is not clear at what angles the classical winds are supposed to be with each other; some have argued that they should be equally spaced at 30 degrees each; for more details, see the article on Classical compass winds). \n\nThe \"sidereal\" compass rose demarcates the compass points by the position of stars in the night sky, rather than winds. Arab navigators in the Red Sea and the Indian Ocean, who depended on celestial navigation, were using a 32-point sidereal compass rose before the end of the 10th century. In the northern hemisphere, the steady Pole Star (Polaris) was used for the N-S axis; the less-steady Southern Cross had to do for the southern hemisphere, as the southern pole star, Sigma Octantis, is too dim to be easily seen from Earth with the naked eye. The other thirty points on the sidereal rose were determined by the rising and setting positions of fifteen bright stars. Reading from North to South, in their rising and setting positions, these are:\n\nThe western half of the rose would be the same stars in their setting position. The true position of these stars is only approximate to their theoretical equidistant rhumbs on the sidereal compass. Stars with the same declination formed a \"linear constellation\" or \"kavenga\" to provide direction as the night progressed.\n\nA similar sidereal compass was used by Polynesian and Micronesian navigators in the Pacific Ocean, although different stars were used in a number of cases, clustering around the East-West axis.\n\nIn Europe, the Classical 12-wind system continued to be taught in academic settings during the Medieval era, but seafarers in the Mediterranean came up with their own distinct 8-wind system. The mariners used names derived from the Mediterranean lingua franca—the Italian-tinged patois among Medieval sailors, composed principally of Ligurian, mixed with Venetian, Sicilian, Provençal, Catalan, Greek and Arabic terms from around the Mediterranean basin. \n\nThe exact origin of the mariner's eight-wind rose is obscure. Only two of its point names (\"Ostro\", \"Libeccio\") have Classical etymologies, the rest of the names seem to be autonomously derived. Two Arabic words stand out: \"Scirocco\" (SE) from \"al-Sharq\" (الشرق – east in Arabic) and the variant \"Garbino\" (SW), from \"al-Gharb\" (الغرب – west in Arabic). This suggests the mariner's rose was probably acquired by southern Italian seafarers not from their classical Roman ancestors, but rather from Norman Sicily in the 11th to 12th centuries. The coasts of the Maghreb and Mashriq are SW and SE of Sicily respectively; the \"Greco\" (a NE wind), reflects the position of Byzantine-held Calabria-Apulia to the northeast of Arab Sicily, while the \"Maestro\" (a NW wind) is a reference to the Mistral wind that blows from the southern French coast towards northwest Sicily.\n\nThe 32-point compass used for navigation in the Mediterranean by the 14th century, had increments of 11° between points. Only the eight principal winds (N, NE, E, SE, S, SW, W, NW) were given special names. The eight half-winds just combined the names of the two principal winds, e.g. Greco-Tramontana for NNE, Greco-Levante for ENE, and so on. Quarter-winds were more cumbersomely phrased, with the closest principal wind named first and the next-closest principal wind second, e.g. \"Quarto di Tramontana verso Greco\" (literally, \"one quarter wind from North towards Northeast\", i.e. North by East), and \"Quarto di Greco verso Tramontana\" (\"one quarter wind from NE towards N\", i.e. Northeast by North). Boxing the compass (naming all 32 winds) was expected of all Medieval mariners.\n\nIn the earliest Medieval portolan charts of the 14th century, compass roses were depicted as mere collections of color-coded compass rhumb lines: black for the eight main winds, green for the eight half-winds and red for the sixteen quarter-winds. The average portolan chart had sixteen such roses (or confluence of lines), spaced out equally around the circumference of a large implicit circle.\n\nThe cartographer Cresques Abraham of Majorca, in his Catalan Atlas of 1375, was the first to draw an ornate compass rose on a map. By the end of the 15th century, Portuguese cartographers began drawing multiple ornate compass roses throughout the chart, one upon each of the sixteen circumference roses (unless the illustration conflicted with coastal details).\n\nThe points on a compass rose were frequently labeled by the initial letters of the mariner's principal winds (T, G, L, S, O, L, P, M). However, from the outset, the custom also began to distinguish the north from the other points by a specific visual marker. Medieval Italian cartographers typically used a simple arrowhead or circumflex-hatted T (an allusion to the compass needle) to designate the north, while the Majorcan cartographic school typically used a stylized Pole Star for its north mark. The use of the fleur-de-lis as north mark was introduced by Pedro Reinel, and quickly became customary in compass roses (and is still often used today). Old compass roses also often used a Christian cross at Levante (E), indicating the direction of Jerusalem from the point of view of the Mediterranean sea.\n\nThe twelve Classical winds (or a subset of them) were also sometimes depicted on portolan charts, albeit not on a compass rose, but rather separately on small disks or coins on the edges of the map.\n\nThe compass rose was also depicted on traverse boards used on board ships to record headings sailed at set time intervals.\n\nThe contemporary compass rose appears as two rings, one smaller and set inside the other. The outside ring denotes true cardinal directions while the smaller inside ring denotes magnetic cardinal directions. True north refers to the geographical location of the north pole while magnetic north refers to the direction towards which the north pole of a magnetic object (as found in a compass) will point. The angular difference between true and magnetic north is called variation, which varies depending on location. The angular difference between magnetic heading and compass heading is called deviation which varies by vessel and its heading.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5559192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5559192", "title": "Cultigen", "text": "Cultigen\n\nA cultigen (from the Latin \"cultus\" – cultivated, and \"gens\" – kind) is a plant that has been deliberately altered or selected by humans; it is the result of artificial selection. These \"man-made\" or anthropogenic plants are, for the most part, plants with commercial value used in horticulture, agriculture or forestry. Because cultigens are defined by their mode of origin and not by where they are growing, plants meeting this definition remain cultigens whether they are naturalised in the wild, deliberately planted in the wild, or growing in cultivation.\nCultigens arise in the following ways: selections of variants from the wild or cultivation including vegetative sports (aberrant growth that can be reproduced reliably in cultivation); plants that are the result of plant breeding and selection programs; genetically modified plants (plants modified by the deliberate implantation of genetic material); and graft-chimaeras (plants grafted to produce mixed tissue, the graft material possibly from wild plants, special selections, or hybrids).\n\nCultigens may be named in any of a number of ways. The traditional method of scientific naming is under the \"International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants\", and many of the most important cultigens, like maize (\"Zea mays\") and banana (\"Musa acuminata\"), are so named. Although it is perfectly in order to give a cultigen a botanical name, in any rank desired, now or at any other time, these days it is more common for cultigens to be given names in accordance with the principles, rules and recommendations laid down in the International Code of Nomenclature for Cultivated Plants (ICNCP) which provides for the names of cultigens in three classification categories, the cultivar, the Group (formerly cultivar-group), and the grex. From that viewpoint it may be said that there is a separate discipline of cultivated plant taxonomy, which forms one of the ways to look at cultigens. The ICNCP does not recognize the use of trade designations and other marketing devices as scientifically acceptable names, but does provide advice on how they should be presented.\n\nNot all cultigens have been given names according to the \"Cultivated Plant Code\". Apart from ancient cultigens like those mentioned above there may be occasional anthropogenic plants such as those that are the result of breeding, selection, and tissue grafting that are of no commercial value and have therefore not been given names according to the ICNCP.\n\nA cultigen is a plant whose origin or selection is primarily due to intentional human activity.\n\nInterest in the distinction between wild and cultivated plants dates back to antiquity. Botanical historian Alan Morton notes that wild and cultivated plants (cultigens) were of intense interest to the ancient Greek botanists (partly for religious reasons) and that the distinction was discussed in some detail by Theophrastus (370–285 BCE) the \"Father of Botany\". Theophrastus was a pupil of both Plato and Aristotle and succeeded the latter as head of the Peripatetic School of Philosophy at the Lyceum in Athens. Theophrastus accepted the view that it was human action, not divine intervention, that produced cultivated plants (cultigens) from wild plants and he also \"had an inkling of the limits of culturally induced (phenotypic) changes and of the importance of genetic constitution\" (\"Historia Plantarum\" III, 2,2 and \"Causa Plantarum\" I, 9,3). He also noted that cultivated varieties of fruit trees would degenerate if cultivated from seed.\n\nThe word cultigen was coined in 1918 by Liberty Hyde Bailey (1858–1954) an American horticulturist, botanist and cofounder of the American Society for Horticultural Science. He was aware of the need for special categories for those cultivated plants that had arisen by intentional human activity and which would not fit neatly into the Linnaean hierarchical classification of ranks used by the \"International Rules of Botanical Nomenclature\" (which later became the \"International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants\").\nIn his 1918 paper Bailey noted that for anyone preparing a descriptive account of the cultivated plants of a country (he was at that time preparing such an account for North America) it would be clear that there are two \"gentes\" or kinds (Latin singular, \"gens\"; plural, \"gentes\") of plants. Firstly, those that are of known origin or nativity \"of known habitat\". These he referred to as indigens. The other kind was: \" ... a domesticated group of which the origin may be unknown or indefinite, which has such characters as to separate it from known indigens, and which is probably not represented by any type specimen or exact description, having therefore no clear taxonomic beginning.\" \nHe called this second kind of plant a cultigen, the word derived from the conflation of the Latin \"cultus\" – cultivated, and \"gens\" – kind.\n\nIn 1923 Bailey extended his original discussion emphasising that he was dealing with plants at the rank of species and he referred to indigens as: \"\"those that are discovered in the wild\" and cultigens as plants that: \"arise in some way under the hand of man\" He then defined a cultigen as: \n\"a species, or its equivalent, that has appeared under domestication\"\"\n\nBailey soon altered his 1923 definition of cultigen when, in 1924, he gave a new definition in the Glossary of his \"Manual of Cultivated Plants\" as: \" \"Plant or group known only in cultivation; presumably originating under domestication; contrast with indigen\" \" This, in essence, is the definition given at the head of this piece. This definition of the cultigen permits the recognition of cultivars, unlike the 1923 definition which restricts the idea of the cultigen to plants at the rank of species.\nIn later publications of the \"Liberty Hyde Bailey Hortorium\", Cornell, the idea of the cultigen having the rank of species returned (e.g. \"Hortus Second\" in 1941 and \"Hortus Third\" in 1976): both of these publications indicate that the terms cultigen and cultivar are not synonymous and that cultigens exist at the rank of species only.\n\n\"\"A cultigen is a plant or group of apparent specific rank, known only in cultivation, with no determined nativity, presumably having originated, in the form in which we know it, under domestication. Compare indigen. Examples are \"Cucurbita maxima\", \"Phaseolus vulgaris\", \"Zea mays\" \"\".\n\nRecent usage in horticulture has, however, maintained a distinction between cultigen and cultivar while nevertheless \"allowing the inclusion of cultivars\" within the definition (see \"Usage in horticulture\" below).\n\nCultigen and cultivar may be confused with one another. Cultigen is a general-purpose term encompassing not only plants with cultivar names but others as well (see introductory text above), while cultivar is a formal classification category (in the ICNCP).\n\nAlthough in his 1923 paper Bailey used only the rank of species for the cultigen, it was clear to him that many domesticated plants were more like botanical varieties than species and so he established a new classification category for these, the cultivar, generally assumed to be a contraction of the words \"cultivated\" and \"variety\". Bailey was never explicit about the etymology of the word cultivar and it has been suggested that it is a contraction of the words \"cultigen\" and \"variety\". He defined cultivar in his 1923 paper as: \nThis definition and understanding of cultivar has changed over time (see current definition in cultivar).\n\nIn botanical literature the word cultigen is generally used to denote a plant which, like the bread wheat (\"Triticum aestivum\") is of unknown origin, but presumed to be an ancient human selection. Plants like bread wheat have been given binomials according to the \"Botanical Code\" and therefore have names with the same form as those of plant species that occur naturally in the wild, but it is not necessary for a cultigen to have a species name, or to have the biological characteristics that distinguish a species. Cultigens can have names at any of various other ranks, including cultivar names, names in the classification categories of grex and group, variety names, forma names, or they may be plants that have been altered by humans (including genetically modified plants) but which have not been given formal names.\n\nThe year 1953 was an important one for cultivated plant taxonomy because this was the date of publication of the first \"International Code of Nomenclature for Cultivated Plants\" in which Bailey's term cultivar was introduced. It was also the year that the eponymous journal commemorating the work of Bailey (who died in 1954), \"Baileya\", was published. In the first volume of \"Baileya\" taxonomist and colleague of Bailey, George Lawrence, wrote a short article clarifying the distinction between the new term \"cultivar\" and the \"variety\". In the same article he also tried to clarify the critical term \"taxon\" which had been introduced by German biologist Meyer in the 1920s but had only just been introduced and accepted in botanical circles. This brief article by Lawrence is useful for its insight into the understanding of the meaning of the word cultigen at this time. He opens the article: \"In 1918, L.H. Bailey distinguished those plants originating in cultivation from the native plants by designating the former as cultigens and the latter as indigens (indigenous or native to the region). At the same time he proposed the term cultivar to distinguish varieties originating in cultivation from botanical varieties known first in the wild\".\n\nIn horticulture the definition and use of the terms cultigen and cultivar has varied. One example is the definition given in the Botanical Glossary of \"The New Royal Horticultural Society Dictionary of Gardening\" which defines cultigen as: \" \"A plant found only in cultivation or in the wild having escaped from cultivation; included here are many hybrids and cultivars,\" \"... \n\nThe use of cultigen in this sense is essentially the same as the definition of the cultigen published by Bailey in 1924.\n\nThe \"Cultivated Plant Code\", however, states that cultigens are \"maintained as recognisable entities solely by continued propagation\", and thus would not include plants that have evolved subsequent to escape from cultivation.\n\nWider use of the term cultigen as defined here has been proposed for the following reasons:\n\n\nPotential misunderstandings and questions arising from the definition of cultigen given here have been discussed in the literature and are summarised below.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49858188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49858188", "title": "CyberGIS", "text": "CyberGIS\n\nCyberGIS, or cyber geographic information science and systems, is an interdisciplinary field combining cyberinfrastructure, e-science, and geographic information science and systems (GIS). CyberGIS has a particular focus on computational and data-intensive geospatial problem-solving within various research and education domains. The need for GIS has extended beyond traditional forms of geographic analysis and study, which includes adapting to new sources and kinds of data, high-performance computing resources, and online platforms based on existing and emerging information networks. The name cyberGIS first appeared in Geographic Information Science literature in 2010. CyberGIS is characterized as digital geospatial ecosystems. These systems are developed and have evolved through heterogeneous computing environments (see CyberGIS Supercomputer below), as well as human communication and information environments. CyberGIS can be considered a new generation of geographic information systems (GIS). These systems are based on advanced computing and information infrastructure, which analyze and model geospatial data, providing computationally intensive spatial analysis, modeling, and collaborative geospatial problem-solving at previously unprecedented scales.\n\nFurther descriptions of CyberGIS include: \"a fundamentally new software framework comprising a seamless integration of cyberinfrastructure, GIS, and spatial analysis/modeling capabilities\", and a \"GIS detached from the desktop and deployed on the web, with the associated issues of hardware, software, data storage, digital networks, people, training and education.\" Earlier scientific research demonstrated problems for integration of spatiotemporal data and analytics due to geographic and spatial complexity. CyberGIS attempts to move beyond traditional scientific and technical constraints within conventional GIS by innovating compute- and data-intensive cyber environments, exploiting spatiotemporal characteristics inherent in various scientific domains, and using big data and high-performance computing approaches to collaborative problem solving.\n\nIn 2004, early research on middleware that integrates GIS with high performance and distributed computing technologies laid the foundation for the subsequent research and development of cyberGIS. This middleware was called geo-middleware because it was tailored to solving geographic problems. Geo-middleware was aimed at enabling collaborative problem-solving and decision-making by taking advantage of massive computational resources provided by high-performance computing infrastructure. Data-intensive spatiotemporal analytics and simulation require substantial computing power while geographic analysis often needs to address the effects of scale and spatial relationships have on various complex phenomena. This means that cyberGIS is focused on cutting-edge GIS advances that are dependent on advanced cyberinfrastructure and high-performance computing instead of conventional sequential computing and GIS approaches. By exploiting massive cyber resources, it is possible for cyberGIS to resolve broader scientific challenges through data-intensive spatiotemporal knowledge discovery.\n\nThe scientific cyberinfrastructure, geospatial, and GIS communities have been working extensively to advance the field of cyberGIS. A key community event was the National Science Foundation TeraGrid Workshop on cyberGIS that took place in conjunction with the University Consortium for Geographic Information Science Winter Meeting of February 2010. This workshop report laid out a compelling cyberGIS roadmap that articulates fundamental issues of cyberGIS for innovating cyberinfrastructure; at the same time, the report contributes to the advancement of the next-generation GIS, which integrates high performance computing, distributed computing, and Internet-enabled collaborative capabilities for geospatial discovery and innovation.\n\nIn 2010, Dr. Shaowen Wang described the first cyberGIS framework for the synthesis of cyberinfrastructure, GIS, and spatial analysis. Since then, it has been recognized as an important area for advanced cyberinfrastructure and GIS research. A multi-institution and multidisciplinary initiative, funded by the National Science Foundation in 2010, began a six-year $4.8 million project on “CyberGIS Software Integration for Sustained Geospatial Innovation.” This major initiative has established three interrelated pillars of a cutting-edge cyberGIS software environment: the CyberGIS Gateway, CyberGIS Toolkit, and GISolve middleware.\n\nIn 2014, the CyberGIS Center for Advanced Digital and Spatial Studies at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign received a National Science Foundation major research instrumentation grant to establish ROGER as the first cyberGIS supercomputer. ROGER, hosted by the National Center for Supercomputing Applications, is optimized to deal with geospatial data and computation and is equipped with:\nCyberGIS software and tools integrate these system components to support a large number of users who are investigating scientific problems in areas spanning biosciences, engineering, geosciences, and social sciences.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44177675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44177675", "title": "Dobrogeanu", "text": "Dobrogeanu\n\nDobrogeanu is a Romanian-language surname that may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "55693279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55693279", "title": "Dust II", "text": "Dust II\n\n\"Dust II\", also known by its filename de_dust2, is a video game map featured in the first-person shooter series \"Counter-Strike\". Dust II is the successor to \"Dust\", another \"Counter-Strike\" map, and was developed by David Johnston prior to the official release of the original \"Counter-Strike\" game. It was designed with the aims of simplicity and balance, based on its symmetrical design and two points, for which the two teams must fight over for control. \n\nThe map was first released in March 2001 for the original \"Counter-Strike\" game and is present in all games in the series. Apart from graphical updates, it underwent minimal changes after its initial release, before receiving a major revision in \"\" in October 2017. The map has been popular with players since its initial release, and both its original and revised design in \"Global Offensive\" have been positively received by players and mapmakers.\n\nDust II is a video game map featured in the first-person shooter series \"Counter-Strike\". The map is set in a dusty environment based in Morocco, according to Jess Cliffe, co-designer of the original \"Counter-Strike\" game. Like the other maps in the game, players are divided into two teams: Terrorists and Counter-Terrorists. The Terrorists have a limited time in which to plant and detonate a bomb; the Counter-Terrorists try to stop them from planting the bomb or to defuse it if it has already been planted. The Terrorist side must gain control of two locations to plant the bomb; these sites are easily accessible to the Counter-Terrorists at the beginning of the round. The map has a few main choke points: \"Middle\", \"Long A\", and \"B Tunnels\". Of its layout, the map's creator David Johnston wrote: \"...Dust was little more than a figure-of-eight that had grown a pair of arms and legs, centralizing the battles but providing tactical wiggle room.\"\n\nThe main choke points contain tactically important positions and areas. Middle has three main areas: Catwalk, an elevated pathway that leads to Short on A site; Lower Tunnels, a tunnel leading from Middle to Upper Tunnels; and Middle Doors, that has a set of open double doors at Middle, which leads to the Counter-Terrorist's spawn. At Long A, there are another three important areas before approaching the A Site. Long Doors are the two sets of open double doors that lead from the Terrorist's spawn to Long A; Pit is a sloped area where players can hide or use for cover near Long Doors; and Counter-Terrorist spawn, located right of Long A from A Site, is where the Counter-Terrorists spawn. B Tunnels has two main areas; Upper Tunnels and Lower Tunnels. Upper Tunnels leads to the B site or Terrorist spawn; Lower Tunnels leads to Upper Tunnels or Middle.\n\nJohnston stated in a blog post that, in making Dust II, he \"had to ensure that this new map had everything in common with Dust, without actually being Dust\". He began identifying what made Dust unique and Johnston kept the simple structures, ramps, crates, and \"Dust doors\"; these were elements he knew had to stay. Though, he wanted to add other elements, an area with close combat and an area with long-range fights, which turned into B Tunnels and Long A. Compared to Dust, he was patient in using the \"trim\" feature, an element that separated certain objects; he said he, \"tried to use the trim very carefully, only exactly when needed, and not just as filler\". He set certain rules for himself with trimming so that he did not overuse or under-use it; overusing would make the map too complex and under-using would make it too flat. Another thing different from Dust is that Dust II did not undergo any other major layout changes.\n\nDust II was developed by David Johnston for the first game in the series as a conceptual sequel to the existing Dust map. Johnston originally titled it \"Dust 3\" because he did not think it was a worthy successor to Dust; before the game's launch it was retitled Dust II. The map was designed to be simple and balanced. During the initial development of the map, \"Long A\", a long pathway that leads towards the \"A Site\", was not present. It existed in the map because of space limitations of the engine; there had been plans to make the area larger. During development, map features such as caverns that would have provided cover, a window in \"B Site\", and a longer ramp in the Counter-Terrorist's Spawn to A Site were removed.\n\nAfter its initial release on March 13, 2001, as part of \"Counter-Strike 1.1\", the map received minimal changes following updates to the rest of the game, but received small graphical updates and lighting changes. It also received graphical updates in \"\" and Counter-Strike's Xbox release.\n\n\"\" was allowed to use Valve's new Source game engine and changed some of the physics. Dust II received a graphical update and new objects that would affect game play were added. New doors were added and a crate at \"Middle\" was made easier to climb. A raised ceiling made firing down from T spawn onto Mid Doors easier.\n\n\"\" featured more graphical updates and changed all of the doors from wooden doors to metal doors, making them much more difficult to penetrate. In an update on February 3, 2017, Dust II was removed from the Active Duty Competitive Pool, a group of whitelisted maps for professional games, in the competitive game mode. It was instead replaced by \"Inferno\" and, at the same time, given its own exclusive map group in the Casual and Deathmatch game modes.\n\nIn October 2017, Valve released a beta remake of the map, which improved upon player readability, visuals, and movement. A week later, the updated version was made public. In April 2018, the map was put back in the Active Duty Competitive Pool, replacing \"Cobblestone\".\n\nDust II has been in every \"Counter-Strike\" game to date and, as of the 2017 updates, continues to receive positive reception from mapmakers and players. Shawn \"FMPONE\" Snelling, a \"Counter-Strike\" mapmaker said \"Valve has given the map a very cohesive and 'tactile' look, making it easier to get a read on your surroundings\". Mitch Bowman of \"PC Gamer\" praised the 2017 update, stating: \"It's a healthy overhaul that makes some modest but interesting changes without reinventing the wheel.\" Jack Stewart of MailOnline wrote that the update has made the map \" ... drop-dead gorgeous\". Professional \"Counter-Strike\" players have mixed opinions; some players enjoyed the update and its changes while some were disapproving. Jake ‘Stewie2K’ Yip criticized the addition of a car to the map, saying, \"you can hide behind it well, and I just think it's kind of overpowered\".\n\nDust II has existed since 2001 and has been subject to imitation, spin offs, and disapproval from the gaming community. In February 2017, the map was removed from the Active Duty Competitive Pool in \"Global Offensive\", a group of maps played in professional competitions. The map was removed in favor of a revamped version of a map titled Inferno. There was an immediate backlash to this change from professional players and community members; according to Peter \"ptr\" Gurney, Valve \"[took] out a map that's balanced and put a map in that literally has at least 4-5 problems I can think of right away\". Fabien \"kioShiMa\" Fiey, another professional \"Counter-Strike\" player, said, \"Why is everyone so surprised. Looks logical that [Dust II] is removed, the only one that has not been redone??\", referring to the earlier reworking and refinement of other \"Global Offensive\" maps before this change.\n\nThere have been several imitations and recreations of Dust II. In early 2014, it was found the map had been recreated in real life, though the location of its recreation is not known. Dust II has also been found in other games because of the work of modders. The map has seen imitations in games such as \"Far Cry 3\", \"Far Cry 5\", and \"Minecraft\".\n"}
{"id": "21956835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21956835", "title": "Emmanuel Brunet-Jailly", "text": "Emmanuel Brunet-Jailly\n\nEmmanuel Brunet-Jailly (1961) is a Canadian politics and public policy scholar at the University of Victoria, British Columbia, Canada, where he is Associate Professor, co-director of the Local Government Institute, and director of the European Studies Program. He is editor of the international scholarly publication; \"Journal of Borderlands Studies\" (JBS), and executive secretary and treasurer of the international scholarly Association for Borderlands Studies.\n\nEmmanuel Brunet-Jailly was born in Paris and raised in the South of France. He holds an LLB from Paul Cézanne University, an MA in Political Science from University of Paris 1 Pantheon-Sorbonne, and a Ph.D. from the University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada. Michael Keating (political scientist) was chair of his Ph.D. committee. In 1999, he was appointed Assistant Director of the Nanovic Institute for European Studies at the University Of Notre Dame, Indiana, USA. He was hired by the University of Victoria School of Public Administration in 2001 and granted academic tenure in 2007. He became co-director of the Local Government Institute in 2001, Executive Secretary and Treasurer of the Association of Borderland Studies in 2005, and Editor of the Journal of Borderland Studies in 2008 (with Martin van der Velde and Henk van Houtum ). Since July 2008, he is also director of the University of Victoria European Studies Program, an interdisciplinary teaching and research unit grouping UVic scholars from five of its faculties.\n\nBrunet-Jailly’s published work focuses on two main areas of research:comparative urban governance, and the governance of cross-border regions, with a specific focus on comparative decentralization, horizontal and vertical governance, and the theorization of cross-border regions.\n\nHis interest in border cities and border urban regions, originates from his work as a civil servant of the French Government \"Agence Pour la Création d'Entreprises.\" While working in the Paris office of APCE he developed a strong interest in what makes cities wealthy or poor, their international relations, and the impact of economic integration on urban politics.\n\nAs a result, a first strand of research is his notable attempt to make a strong theoretical contribution to the study of \"urban borderlands.\" In the 1990s, this literature was underdeveloped, but has seen a resurgence of interests after the September 11, 2001 attacks on New York and Washington D.C.. One of his goals has been to develop a border model that would allow scholars to compare borders effectively and thus expand the scholarly 'boundaries' of their respective fields of study.\n\nA second concurrent strand of research is about urban governance issues. In this area, he has published a number of research papers and a book \"Local Government in a Global World\" at the University of Toronto Press, with John Martin. Since 2001, he has written with Warren Magnusson (University of Victoria) the \"Municipal Affairs\" section of the \"Canadian Annual Review of Politics and Policies\".\n\nAll in all, as of 2008, his short biography states that his research work has appeared or is forthcoming in eight books or guest edited scholarly journals, and over 38 articles and book chapters in the following refereed journals and presses: Canadian American Public Policy, Canadian Political Science Review, Canadian Annual Review of Politics and Public Affairs, Geopolitics, International Journal of Economic Development, Journal of Borderland Studies, Journal of Urban Affairs, University of Toronto Press, University Of Ottawa Press, Institute of Public Administration of Canada , Rowman and Littlefield (Lanham, MD), Commonwealth Local Government Forum (London, UK London), Hassleholm; Sweden, Queen’s McGill University Press, Septentrion University Press, Lille, France, and Katharla publishers, Paris, France.\n\nNotable publications on border and borderland issues include:\n\n\nOther publications on border and borderland issues include:\n\n\n\nHis work on urban regions includes:\n\n\"Canadian Annual Review of Politics and Public Affairs.\" since 2001, (with Warren Magnusson, University of Victoria) yearly contribution on Urban affairs in Canada, University of Toronto Press.\n\nBrunet-Jailly has lectured at North American, European and Chinese Universities, including: the Universities of Victoria; Western Ontario, Canada, where he has been teaching in the DPA/MPA program since 1999; University of Alberta (Edmonton, AB); University of Saskatchewan; Notre Dame University (IN- USA); Jerusalem (Israel); Geneva (Switzerland); Luxembourg; Radboud University, Nijmegen (NL); FuCAm, Mons (Belgium); Sonderborg, DK; Lund (Sweden); University of Iceland, Iceland; Hong Kong University, Hong Kong; University of Xiamen, Xiamen, China; University of Grenoble 1, France; and University of Lille, France, where he has been invited yearly to lecture since 2005.\n\nBrunet-Jailly has also been invited to give talks and keynote addresses on borderlands, borderland theory, border security or the governance of large urban regions and world cities. For instance, he gave the concluding remarks at the \"Border Region In Transition\" Jerusalem conference (BRIT 8), and the academic inaugural keynote address at the \"Managing World Cities\" conference along with Newman, Savitch and Tsukamoto.\n\nBrunet-Jailly is on the editorial board of \"Environnement Urbain/Urban Environment,\" Montreal, Quebec based journal of urban research \n\nHe chaired the Urban Section of the Canadian Political Science Association meeting 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "15827328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15827328", "title": "Fernandezian Region", "text": "Fernandezian Region\n\nThe Fernandezian Region is a Floristic Region which includes two island groups, the Juan Fernández Islands and Desventuradas Islands archipelagos, that lie in the South Pacific Ocean off the west coast of Chile. It is in the Antarctic Floristic Kingdom, but often also included within the Neotropical Kingdom.\n\nEndemic plant families include Lactoridaceae, with many endemic plant and animal genera are found here too.\n\n"}
{"id": "25078152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25078152", "title": "Flag of the Tuvan People's Republic", "text": "Flag of the Tuvan People's Republic\n\nThe Tuvan People's Republic in its short life span went through a number of flags. Many typical communist icons were used such as the Hammer and Sickle and the color red.\n\nThe 1921 flag's inscriptions read, \"Flag of the executive committee of the People's Revolutionary Party of Tannu Tuva\" (tangnu tiva yin arad un qubisyal tu nam un quriyan u tuy). The 1926-1930 flag started being used after the Constitution of 24 November 1926 and the inscription read, \"Tuvan People's Republic\" (Bügüde Nayiramdaqu Tuva Arad Ulus). The 1941-1943 flag had the initials of the state (Tıwa Arat Respublik) in gold in canton. The 1943-1944 was just the Cyrillic version (Тыва Арат Республик).\n\n"}
{"id": "1624527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1624527", "title": "Friedrich Gerhard Rohlfs", "text": "Friedrich Gerhard Rohlfs\n\nFriedrich Gerhard Rohlfs (April 14, 1831 – June 2, 1896) was a German geographer, explorer, author and adventurer.\n\nHe was born at Vegesack, now part of Bremen. He was the son of a physician, and there was much pressure on Rohlfs to be in the field of medicine. After the ordinary course at the gymnasium of Osnabrück, he entered the Bremen corps in 1848, and took part as a volunteer in the Schleswig-Holstein campaign, being made an officer after the battle of Idstedt (July 1850). He then became a medical student, and studied at the universities of Heidelberg, Würzburg, and Göttingen. He wanted to travel, joined the French Foreign Legion in a medical capacity, and served during the conquest of Kabylia. He attained the highest rank open to a foreigner, and was decorated for bravery as Chevalier of the Legion of Honour. Having learned the Arabic language and the mode of life of the inhabitants, in 1861 he went to Morocco, and was for some time personal physician to a nobleman there.\n\nHe then set off on his own, exploring the oases of Morocco. It was on this trip that he was attacked and left for dead, his leg almost severed from his body. These injuries would keep him from returning to Europe for most of his life, the cold weather somehow aggravating them. In 1864 he continued his travels in Morocco, and crossed the Atlas Mountains to the oasis of Tuat. His description and map of the country were the first ever made from personal observation and with scientific knowledge.\n\nAfter this trip, and a short visit to Germany, Rohlfs returned to Africa, and, disguised as an Arab, was the first European to cross Africa from Tripoli across the Sahara desert via Lake Chad and along the Niger River and to present-day Lagos on the Gulf of Guinea from 1865-1867. He was the second European explorer to visit the region of the Draa River in the south of Morocco. For this work, in 1868 he was awarded the Patron's Medal of the Royal Geographical Society of London. Rohlfs's detailed account of it is contained in the \"Ergänzungsheft\" (“Supplement”) No. 34 to Petermann's \"Geographische Mittheilungen\" (Gotha, 1872).\n\nAt the close of 1867, by order of the king of Prussia, he joined the British punitive expedition to Abyssinia. He returned to Tripoli in 1868, and in 1869 traversed the desert from Tripoli to Alexandria, visiting the oasis of Siwah, site of the ancient city of Ammonium. Returning to Germany, he married and settled down in Weimar.\nIn 1873, with an expedition of 100 camels and 90 men, organized under the patronage of the khedive of Egypt Isma'il Pasha, he explored the Libyan desert west of the chain of oases which skirt the valley of the Nile, and discovered that the depression called the Bahr Bela-ma (river without water), marked on many maps of the desert at that time, did not exist. In 1874 Rohlfs set out from Dakhla Oasis intending to reach Kufra. In February he was about north of Abu Ballas (Pottery Hill) in the Western Desert. Accompanied by Karl Zittel and a surveyor called Jordans, Rohlfs and his colleagues experienced a torrential downpour - a rare occurrence in the desert. Rohlf's team restocked and watered their camels and left a cairn at the place he had named \"Regenfeld\" (“Rain field”). The progress of the expedition was stopped by hills of loose sliding sand which the camels were unable to traverse, and the party turned back.\n\nIn 1875, he visited the United States, and lectured on his travels. In 1878 Rohlfs and Anton Stecker (1855-1888) were commissioned by the German African Society to go to Wadai. They succeeded in reaching the oasis of Kufra, one of the chief centres of the Senussites, but being attacked by Arabs, they were obliged to retreat, making their way to the coast at Benghazi, reached in October 1879. In 1880 Rohlfs accompanied Stecker in an exploring expedition to Abyssinia; but after delivering a letter from the German emperor to the Negus, he returned to Europe.\n\nIn 1885, when the rivalry belween the British and Germans in East Africa was very keen, Otto von Bismarck appointed Rohlfs consul at Zanzibar, which island Bismarck desired to secure for Germany. Rohlfs, untrained in diplomacy, was no match for John Kirk, the British agent, and he was soon recalled, and did not again visit Africa.\n\nRohlfs died at Rüngsdorf, near Bonn.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8064", "title": "Geography of the Dominican Republic", "text": "Geography of the Dominican Republic\n\nThe Dominican Republic (Spanish: \"República Dominicana\") is a country in the West Indies that occupies the eastern five-eighths of Hispaniola. It has an area of 48,670 km², including offshore islands. The land border shared with Haiti, which occupies the western three-eighths of the island, is 376 km long. The maximum length, east to west, is 390 km from Punta de Agua to Las Lajas, on the border with Haiti. The maximum width, north to south, is 265 km from Cape Isabela to Cape Beata. The capital, Santo Domingo, is located on the south coast.\n\nThe Dominican Republic's shores are washed by the Atlantic Ocean to the north and the Caribbean Sea to the south. The Mona Passage, a channel about 130 km wide, separates the country (and Hispaniola) from Puerto Rico.\n\n\n\nThe country is a tropical, maritime nation. Conditions are ameliorated in many areas by elevation and by the northeast trade winds, which blow steadily from the Atlantic all year long. The annual mean temperature is ; regional mean temperatures range from in the heart of the Cordillera Central (Constanza) to as high as in arid regions. Temperatures rarely rise above , and freezing temperatures only occur in winter in the highest mountains. The average temperature in Santo Domingo in January is , and in July.\n\nThe rain season for the northern coast is from November to January. For the rest of the country, the rain season is from May to November. The average annual rainfall is , with extremes of or more in the mountainous northeast (the windward side of the island) and in the southwestern valleys. The western valleys, along the Haitian border, remain relatively dry, with less than of annual precipitation, due to the rain shadow effect caused by the central and northern mountain ranges. The northwestern and southeastern extremes of the country are also arid.\n\nThe Dominican Republic is occasionally damaged by tropical storms and hurricanes, which originate in the mid-Atlantic and southeastern Caribbean from June until November (mainly from August to October) each year.\n\nThere are several smaller islands and cays that are part of the Dominican territory. The largest islands are:\n\nThe Dominican Republic is a country with many mountains, and the highest peaks of the West Indies are found here. The chains of mountains show a direction northwest-southeast, except in the Southern peninsula (in Haiti) where they have a direction west-east. The mountains are separated by valleys with the same general direction.\n\nFrom north to south, the mountain ranges and valleys are:\n\nThe 8 longest rivers of the Dominican Republic are:\n\nThe Artibonite River is the longest river of the island but only 68 km are in the Dominican Republic.\n\nThe largest lake of the Hispaniola, and of the West Indies, is the \"Lake Enriquillo\". It is located in the \"Hoya de Enriquillo\" with an area of 265 km². There are three small islands within the lake. It is around 40 meters below sea level and is a saline lake with a higher concentration of salt than the sea water.\n\nOthers lakes are \"Rincón\" (fresh water, area of 28.2 km²), \"Oviedo\" (brackish water, area of 28 km²), \"Redonda\", \"Limón\".\n"}
{"id": "1896258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1896258", "title": "Ghat", "text": "Ghat\n\nAs used in many parts of South Asia, the term ghat refers to a series of steps leading down to a body of water, particularly a holy river.\nThe set of stairs can lead down to something as small as a pond or as large as a major river.\n\nThe word \"ghat\" is explained by numerous Dravidian etymons such as Kannada \"gatta\" (mountain range) Tamil \"kattu\" (side of a mountain, dam, ridge, causeway) and Telugu \"katta\" and \"gattu\" (dam, embankment).\nThe word \"ghat\" has furthermore the implicit meaning of \"pass\" or \"crossing\".\n\nThe numerous significant ghats along the Ganges are the Varanasi ghats (the city of Varanasi has 88 ghats) and generically the \"ghats of the Ganges\". Most of these were constructed under the patronage of various Maratha rulers such as Ahilyabai Holkar (Queen of the Malwa Kingdom from 1767 to 1795) in the 18th century.\n\nIn Madhya Pradesh in central India there are further significant ghats along the Narmada River. People who live on the steps are also called ghats.\n\nGhats such as these are useful for both mundane purposes (such as cleaning) and religious rites (i.e. ritual bathing or ablutions); there are also specific \"shmashana\" or \"cremation\" ghats where bodies are cremated waterside, allowing ashes to be washed away by rivers; notable ones are Nigambodh Ghat and Raj Ghat in Delhi on the Yamuna, the latter of which was the cremation area for Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi and numerous political leaders after him, and the Manikarnika Ghat at Varanasi on the Ganges.\n\nIn Marathi, Hindi, Gujarati and Kannada, \"ghat\" is a term used to identify a difficult passage over a mountain. One such passage is the Bhor Ghat that connects the towns Khopoli and Khandala, on NH 4 about north of Mumbai. Charmadi Ghat of Karnataka is also notable.\n\nIn many cases, the term is used to refer to a mountain range itself, as in the \"Western Ghats\" and \"Eastern Ghats\". 'Ghattam' in Malayalam also refers to mountain ranges when used with the name of the ranges being addressed (e.g., paschima ghattam for Western Ghats), while the passage road would be called a 'churam'.\n\nThe word is also used in some places outside the Indian subcontinent where there are Indian communities. For example, in George Town, Penang in Malaysia, the label \"Ghaut\" is used to identify the extensions of those streets which formerly ended in ghats before reclamation of the quayside (e.g., Church St Ghaut - in Malay \"Gat Lebuh Gereja\" - is the name of the extension of Church St beyond where the street used to descend to the water via a ghat). In both Penang and Singapore, there are areas named Dhoby Ghaut (dhobi meaning \"launderer\" or \"laundry\", depending on whether it refers to a person or a business).\n\n\"Ghat\" and \"Ghata\" is also a suffix used in several place names across the subcontinent. This is an incomplete list:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3031111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3031111", "title": "Greater Yemen", "text": "Greater Yemen\n\nGreater Yemen (Arabic: اليمن الكبرى - Al-Yaman al-Kubrā) is a geographic term denoting territories of historic South Arabia which included the present territory of the Republic of Yemen as well as the Saudi regions of 'Asir, Najran, Jizan, adjacent islands in the Red Sea, adjacent parts of Tihamah and the Omani governorate of Dhofar.\n\n'Asir, Najran, and Jizan were part of Yemen before the Saudi–Yemeni War (1934) and Dhofar was part of Kathiri Sultanate.\n\nGreater Yemen is also a political term denoting the irredentist aspiration that these areas be united under a common state. These claims are based on the historical notion of Bilad al-Yaman (the Land of the southern Peninsula) as well as the Rasulid state of the 13th-15th centuries and the Zaidi state of the late 17th and early 18th centuries which encompassed most of the territory of Greater Yemen.\n\nIn the 20th century, Imam Yahya Muhammad Hamid ed-Din, King of the Mutawakkilite Kingdom of Yemen (North Yemen) attempted to realize these aspirations but only managed to consolidate his control in Upper Yemen, Lower Yemen, Marib, and Lower Tihamah. He expressed his claim to Aden and the Aden Protectorate in treaties, such as in the Italo-Yemeni Treaty of 1926. He was forced to acknowledge Saudi control over Asir and was unable to dislodge the British from the Aden hinterland or Hadhramaut. British control of Aden was also challenged by his successor King Ahmad bin Yahya who did not recognise British suzerainty in South Arabia and also had ambitions of creating a unified Greater Yemen. In the late 1940s and the early 1950s, Yemen was involved in a series of border skirmishes along the disputed Violet Line, a 1913 Anglo-Ottoman demarcation that served to separate Yemen from the Aden Protectorate.\n\nAfter Aden achieved independence from Britain in the 1960s, it united with North Yemen in 1990 to form the Republic of Yemen, which saw the majority of Greater Yemen ruled as a single polity for the first time in nearly two centuries, but the Southern Movement has since 1994 sought the secession of south Yemen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39298106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39298106", "title": "Gumbo (soil)", "text": "Gumbo (soil)\n\nGumbo soil is a mixture which often has some small amounts of sand and/or organic material, but is typically defined by the overwhelming presence of very fine particles of clay \n"}
{"id": "56168335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56168335", "title": "Index of Sri Lanka-related articles (S)", "text": "Index of Sri Lanka-related articles (S)\n\nThis page lists Sri Lanka-related articles with titles beginning with an alphabet letter S.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29871651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29871651", "title": "Index of Thailand-related articles 0 to J", "text": "Index of Thailand-related articles 0 to J\n\nThis is a list of articles related to Thailand, sorted by alphabetical order. It represents the majority of articles contained within the . For a list of key articles arranged by topic, see Outline of Thailand.\n\nThose interested in the subject can monitor changes to the pages listed here by clicking on the link in the sidebar.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13632378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13632378", "title": "Jabal Umm ad Dami", "text": "Jabal Umm ad Dami\n\nJabal Umm ad Dami, in historic Wadi Rum, is the highest mountain in Jordan. Its claimed elevation of 1,854 metres is consistent with SRTM data. It is located at , near to the border with Saudi Arabia in the Aqaba Governorate of Jordan.\n\n"}
{"id": "29873923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29873923", "title": "John Bowack", "text": "John Bowack\n\nJohn Bowack (fl. 1737) was a British topographer, for many years a writing-master at Westminster School.\n\nIn 1705-6, when living in Church Lane, Chelsea, he began to publish, in folio numbers, 'The Antiquities of Middlesex, being a collection of the several church monuments in that county; also an historical account of each church and parish, with the seats, villages, and names of the most eminent inhabitants.' Of this work two parts appeared, comprising the parishes of Chelsea, Kensington, Fulham, Hammersmith, Chiswick, and Acton. A third part was promised, which would have extended through Ealing, New Brentford, Isleworth, and Hanwell; but from want of encouragement Bowack proceeded no further.\n\nA specimen of his skill in ornamental handwriting is to be seen in Harleian MS. 1809, a thin vellum book, containing two neat drawings in Indian ink, and various kinds of English text and print hands, which was sent to Lord Oxford in December 1712, with a letter, wherein the author expresses the hope that his little work may find a place in his lordship's library. Bowack was appointed in July 1732 clerk to the commissioners of the turnpike roads, and in 1737 assistant-secretary to the Westminster Bridge commissioners, with a salary of £100 a year. The date of his death appears to be unknown.\n"}
{"id": "22711248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22711248", "title": "Keenan Land", "text": "Keenan Land\n\nKeenan Land was the name given to a mass of land in the Beaufort Sea about 300 miles north of Point Barrow, Alaska. It was allegedly discovered in the 1870s by American whaler John Keenan.\n\nJohn Keenan reported stranding his ship on an uncharted island, where he raised the American flag. After his return, the island was named after him.\n\nStarting in 1907 with the Anglo-American Polar Expedition, numerous unsuccessful attempts were made (by Vilhjalmur Stefansson and Roald Amundsen, among others) to relocate Keenan Land. Hubert Wilkins flew over the area in 1937 on his search for the missing Sigizmund Levanevsky and came to the conclusion that the land never existed.\n\n"}
{"id": "46460603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46460603", "title": "List of Commonwealth of Nations countries by GDP (nominal)", "text": "List of Commonwealth of Nations countries by GDP (nominal)\n\nThis is a list of Commonwealth of Nations countries by GDP in nominal values. Gross domestic product is the value of all final goods and services produced within a nation in a given year. The GDP dollar estimates presented here are calculated at market or government official exchange rates. Values are given in millions of US dollars. Dependent territories are shown in italics and are not ranked, and their flags are shown alongside the country of which they are a territory.\n\nThe following lists show the latest figures for GDP and GDP per capita. Most figures are 2017 data from the International Monetary Fund; figures for dependent territories (both GDP and GDP per capita) are 2016 data from the United Nations. Figures from other sources and years are noted as such.\n\nClick on one of the small triangles in the headings to re-order the list according to that category.\n\n"}
{"id": "484853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=484853", "title": "List of Ireland-related topics", "text": "List of Ireland-related topics\n\n\"This page aims to list articles related to the island of Ireland. This list is not necessarily complete or up to date; if you see an article that should be here but is not (or one that should not be here but is), please update the page accordingly.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "11734262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11734262", "title": "List of Ngolas of Ndongo", "text": "List of Ngolas of Ndongo\n\nThe following is an incomplete List of Ngolas of the Kingdom of Ndongo, a pre-colonial West−Central African state in what is now Angola.\n\nThe full title of those who ruled over the Northern Mbundu Kingdom of Ndongo was \"Ngola a Kilanje\". The kingdom was south of Kingdom of Kongo. The last ruling dynasty moved east to the nearby Kingdom of Matamba, and continued independently until 1741.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34156117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34156117", "title": "List of Republic of Ireland food and drink products with protected status", "text": "List of Republic of Ireland food and drink products with protected status\n\nA number of Irish food and drink products have been granted Protected Geographical Status under European Union law through the Protected Designation of Origin (PDO), Protected Geographical Indication (PGI) or Traditional Speciality Guaranteed (TSG) regimes. The legislation is designed to protect regional foods and came into force in 1992. \n\nThis list is sourced from the official index published by the European Commission.\n\nRegistered:\n\nApplied for designation:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18963659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18963659", "title": "List of University of Ljubljana people", "text": "List of University of Ljubljana people\n\nThis is a partially sorted list of notable persons who have had ties to the University of Ljubljana.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12837217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12837217", "title": "List of land borders with dates of establishment", "text": "List of land borders with dates of establishment\n\nThis list of land borders with date of establishment identifies the historical year in which borders were established between countries.\n\n\"Andorra–France\n\n\"Albania–Greece\n\n\"Albania–Montenegro\n\n\"Albania–Republic of Macedonia\n\n\"Albania–Serbia\n\n\"Andorra–Spain\n\n\"Austria–Czech Republic\n\n\"Austria–Liechtenstein\n\n\"Austria–Switzerland\n\n\"Austria–Slovakia\n\n\"Austria–Hungary\n\n\"Austria–Slovenia\n\n\"Austria–Germany\n\n\"Austria–Italy\n\n\"Azerbaijan–Georgia\n\n\"Azerbaijan–Russia\n\n\"Belarus–Latvia\n\n\n\"Belarus–Poland\n\n\"Belarus–Russia\n\n\"Belarus–Ukraine\n\n\"Belgium–Netherlands\n\n\"Belgium–France\n\n\"Belgium–Luxembourg\n\n\"Belgium–Germany\n\n\"Bosnia and Hercegovina–Croatia\n\n\"Bosnia and Hercegovina–Montenegro\n\n\"Bosnia and Hercegovina–Serbia\n\n\"Bulgaria–Greece\n\n\"Bulgaria–Republic of Macedonia\n\n\"Bulgaria–Romania\n\n\"Bulgaria–Serbia\n\n\"Bulgaria–Turkey\n\n\"Croatia–Hungary\n\n\"Croatia–Montenegro\n\n\"Croatia–Serbia\n\n\"Croatia–Slovenia\n\n\"Czech Republic–Germany\n\n\"Czech Republic–Poland\n\n\"Czech Republic–Slovakia\n\n\"Denmark–Germany\n\n\"Denmark–Sweden\n\n\"Estonia–Latvia\n\n\"Estonia–Russia\n\n\"Finland–Norway\n\n\"Finland–Russia\n\n\"Finland–Sweden\n\n\"France–Switzerland\n\n\"France–Italy\n\n\"France–Monaco\n\n\"France–Spain\n\n\"France–Germany\n\n\"France–Luxembourg\n\n\"France–UK\n\n\"Georgia–Russia\n\n\"Germany–Luxembourg\n\n\"Germany–Netherlands\n\n\"Germany–Poland\n\n\"Germany–Switzerland\n\n\"Greece–Republic of Macedonia\n\n\"Greece–Turkey\n\n\"Hungary–Romania\n\n\"Hungary–Slovakia\n\n\"Hungary–Serbia\n\n\"Hungary–Slovenia\n\n\"Hungary–Ukraine\n\n\"Italy–San Marino\n\n\"Italy–Slovenia\n\n\"Italy–Switzerland\n\n\"Italy–Vatican City\n\n\"Ireland–UK\n\n\"Latvia–Lithuania\n\n\"Lithuania–Belarus\n\n\"Lithuania–Poland\n\n\"Lithuania–Russia\n\n\"Latvia–Russia\n\n\"Liechtenstein–Switzerland\n\n\"Republic of Macedonia–Serbia\n\n\"Moldova–Romania\n\n\"Moldova–Ukraine\n\n\"Montenegro–Serbia\n\n\"Norway–Russia\n\n\"Norway–Sweden\n\n\"Poland–Slovakia\n\n\"Poland–Russia\n\n\"Poland–Ukraine\n\n\"Portugal–Spain\n\n\"Romania–Ukraine\n\n\"Romania–Serbia\n\n\"Russia–Ukraine\n\n\"Slovakia–Ukraine\n\n\"Spain–UK\n\n\"Afghanistan–China\n\n\"Afghanistan–Iran\n\n\"Afghanistan–Pakistan\n\n\"Afghanistan–Tajikistan\n\n\"Afghanistan–Turkmenistan\n\n\"Afghanistan–Uzbekistan\n\n\"Armenia–Azerbaijan\n\n\"Armenia–Georgia\n\n\"Armenia–Turkey\n\n\"Azerbaijan–Iran\n\n\"Azerbaijan–Turkey\n\n\"Bangladesh–Burma\n\n\"Bangladesh–India\n\n\"Bhutan–India\n\n\"Bhutan–China\n\n\"Brunei–Malaysia\n\n\"Burma–India\n\n\"Burma–China\n\n\"Burma–Thailand\n\n\"Cambodia–Laos\n\n\"Cambodia–Thailand\n\n\"Cambodia–Vietnam\n\n\"China–Laos\n\n\"China–Pakistan\n\n\"China–India\n\n\"China–Kazakhstan\n\n\"China–Kyrgyzstan\n\n\"China–Mongolia\n\n\"China–Nepal\n\n\"China–North Korea\n\n\"China–Tajikistan\n\n\"China–Russia\n\n\"China–Vietnam\n\n\"East Timor–Indonesia\n\n\"Egypt–Israel\n\n\"Egypt-Palestine(Gaza)\n\n\"Georgia–Turkey\n\n\"India–Nepal\n\n\"India–Pakistan\n\n\"Indonesia–Malaysia\n\n\"Iran–Iraq\n\n\"Iran–Pakistan\n\n\"Iran–Turkey\n\n\"Iran–Turkmenistan\n\n\"Iraq–Jordan\n\n\"Iraq–Kuwait\n\n\"Iraq–Saudi Arabia\n\n\"Iraq–Syria\n\n\"Iraq–Turkey\n\n\"Israel–Syria\n\n\"Israel-Palestine (west bank, east jerusalem)\n\n\"Israel–Jordan\n\n\"Jordan–Syria\n\n\"Jordan–Saudi Arabia\n\n\"Jordan-Palestine(West bank)\n\n\"Kazakhstan–Kyrgyzstan\n\n\"Kazakhstan–Russia\n\n\"Kazakhstan–Turkmenistan\n\n\"Kazakhstan–Uzbekistan\n\n\"Kuwait–Saudi Arabia\n\n\"Kyrgyzstan–Tajikistan\n\n\"Kyrgyzstan–Uzbekistan\n\n\"Laos–Burma\n\n\"Laos–Thailand\n\n\"Laos–Vietnam\n\n\"Lebanon–Syria\n\n\"Lebanon–Israel\n\n\"Malaysia–Singapore\n\n\"Malaysia–Thailand\n\n\"Mongolia–Russia\n\n\"North Korea–South Korea\n\n\"North Korea–Russia\n\n\"Oman–Saudi Arabia\n\n\"Oman–United Arab Emirates\n\n\"Oman–Yemen\n\n\"Saudi Arabia–Qatar\n\n\"Saudi Arabia–United Arab Emirates\n\n\"Saudi Arabia–Yemen\n\n\"Syria–Turkey\n\n\"Tajikistan–Uzbekistan\n\n\"Turkmenistan–Uzbekistan\n\n\"Indonesia–Papua New Guinea\n\n\"Algeria–Libya\n\n\"Algeria–Mali\n\n\"Algeria–Mauritania\n\n\"Algeria–Morocco\n\n\"Algeria–Niger\n\n\"Algeria–Tunisia\n\n\"Angola–Democratic Republic of the Congo\n\n\"Angola–Namibia\n\n\"Angola–Republic of the Congo\n\n\"Angola–Zambia\n\n\"Benin–Burkina Faso\n\n\"Benin–Niger\n\n\"Benin–Nigeria\n\n\"Burkina Faso–Togo\n\n\"Burkina Faso–Ghana\n\n\"Burkina Faso–Côte d'Ivoire\n\n\"Burkina Faso–Mali\n\n\"Burkina Faso–Niger\n\n\"Botswana–South Africa\n\n\"Botswana–Zimbabwe\n\n\"Botswana–Namibia\n\n\"Burundi–Democratic Republic of the Congo\n\n\"Burundi–Rwanda\n\n\"Burundi–Tanzania\n\n\"Cameroon–Central African Republic\n\n\"Cameroon–Republic of the Congo\n\n\"Central African Republic–Republic of the Congo\n\n\"Central African Republic–Democratic Republic of the Congo\n\n\"Central African Republic–Chad\n\n\"Cameroon–Gabon\n\n\"Cameroon–Equatorial Guinea\n\n\"Cameroon–Chad\n\n\"Cameroon–Nigeria\n\n\"Chad–Libya\n\n\"Chad–Niger\n\n\"Chad–Nigeria\n\n\"Central African Republic–Sudan\n\n\"Chad–Sudan\n\n\"Côte d'Ivoire–Mali\n\n\"Côte d'Ivoire–Guinea\n\n\"Côte d'Ivoire–Liberia\n\n\"Democratic Republic of the Congo–Sudan\n\n\"Democratic Republic of the Congo–Republic of the Congo\n\n\"Democratic Republic of the Congo–Rwanda\n\n\"Democratic Republic of the Congo–Uganda\n\n\"Democratic Republic of the Congo–Zambia\n\n\"Djibouti–Eritrea\n\n\"Djibouti–Ethiopia\n\n\"Djibouti–Somalia\n\n\"Egypt–Libya\n\n\"Egypt–Sudan\n\n\"Equatorial Guinea–Gabon\n\n\"Eritrea–Sudan\n\n\"Eritrea–Ethiopia\n\n\"Ethiopia–Kenya\n\n\"Ethiopia–Sudan\n\n\"Ethiopia–Somalia\n\n\"Gabon–Republic of the Congo\n\n\"The Gambia–Senegal\n\n\"Ghana–Togo\n\n\"Ghana–Côte d'Ivoire\n\n\"Guinea–Liberia\n\n\"Guinea–Sierra Leone\n\n\"Guinea–Mali\n\n\"Guinea–Senegal\n\n\"Guinea–Guinea-Bissau\n\n\"Guinea–Bissau-Senegal\n\n\"Kenya–Sudan\n\n\"Kenya–Somalia\n\n\"Kenya–Uganda\n\n\"Kenya–Tanzania\n\n\"Lesotho–South Africa\n\n\"Libya–Niger\n\n\"Libya–Sudan\n\n\"Libya–Tunisia\n\n\"Liberia–Sierra Leone\n\n\"Mali–Senegal\n\n\"Mali–Mauritania\n\n\"Malawi–Mozambique\n\n\"Mali–Niger\n\n\"Malawi–Tanzania\n\n\"Malawi–Zambia\n\n\"Mauritania–Senegal\n\n\"Morocco–Spain\n\n\"Mozambique–South Africa\n\n\"Mozambique–Swaziland\n\n\"Mozambique–Tanzania\n\n\"Mozambique–Zambia\n\n\"Mozambique–Zimbabwe\n\n\"Namibia–Zambia\n\n\"Namibia–South Africa\n\n\"Niger–Nigeria\n\n\"Rwanda–Tanzania\n\n\"Rwanda–Uganda\n\n\"Sudan–Uganda\n\n\"South Africa–Swaziland\n\n\"South Africa–Zimbabwe\n\n\"Tanzania–Uganda\n\n\"Tanzania–Zambia\n\n\"Zambia–Zimbabwe\n\n\"Belize–Guatemala\n\n\"Belize–Mexico\n\n\"Canada–United States\n\n\"Costa–Rica-Panama\n\n\"Costa Rica–Nicaragua\n\n\"Dominican Republic–Haiti\n\n\"El Salvador–Guatemala\n\n\"El Salvador–Honduras\n\n\"France–Netherlands\n\n\"Guatemala–Honduras\n\n\"Guatemala–Mexico\n\n\"Honduras–Nicaragua\n\n\"Mexico–United States\n\n\"Argentina–Brazil\"\n\n\"Argentina–Bolivia\n\n\"Argentina–Chile\n\n\"Argentina–Paraguay\n\n\"Argentina–Uruguay\n\n\"Bolivia–Brazil\n\n\"Bolivia–Chile\n\n\"Bolivia–Paraguay\n\n\"Bolivia–Peru\n\n\"Brazil–Colombia\n\n\"Brazil–France\n\n\"Brazil–Guyana\n\n\"Brazil–Paraguay\n\n\"Brazil–Peru\n\n\"Brazil–Suriname\n\n\"Brazil–Uruguay\n\n\"Brazil–Venezuela\n\n\"Colombia–Ecuador\n\n\"Colombia–Panama\n\n\"Colombia–Peru\n\n\"Colombia–Venezuela\n\n\"Ecuador–Peru\n\n\"France–Suriname\n\n\"Guyana–Suriname\n\n\"Guyana–Venezuela\n\n\"Hong Kong–China\n\n\"Algeria–Western Sahara\n\n\"Mauritania–Western Sahara\n\n\"Morocco–Western Sahara\n\n\"Egypt–Palestinian Territories\n\n\"Israel–Palestinian Territories\n\n\"Jordan–Palestinian Territories\n"}
{"id": "18848235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18848235", "title": "Maragoli tribe (Luhya)", "text": "Maragoli tribe (Luhya)\n\nThe Maragoli, or Logoli (\"Ava-Logooli\"), are now the second-largest ethnic group of the 6 million-strong Luhya nation in Kenya, numbering around 2.1 million, or 15% of the Luhya people according to the last Kenyan census. Their language is called \"Logoli\", \"Lulogooli\", \"Ululogooli\", or \"Maragoli\". The name \"Maragoli\" probably emerged later on after interaction of the people with missionaries of the Quaker Church.\n\nMaragoli also refers to the area that the descendants of a man called Mulogooli (also known as Maragoli) settled and occupied in the thirteenth century AD. Maragoli clans include the Va-Gonda, Va-Mavi, Va-Sachi, Va-Saniaga, Va-Vulughi, Va-Ndega, Va-sari, Va-ng'ang'a, Va-Yonga. (The prefix \"Va-\" refers to people, and is sometimes written \"Ba-, Ava-,\" or \"Aba-\".)\n\nMaragoli history records a migration from North-East Africa. The story of the Maragoli people begins with a man called Mulogoli. He was descended from Kintu, who led the progenitors of the Luhya to their current area from an area they called Misri, now known commonly as Northern Sudan and Egypt.\n\nWhen the Luhya progenitors first arrived in what is now northern Kenya, Southern Ethiopia and Southern Sudan, the ruler of the Luhyas at the time was Kitanga. The Turkana people later came to occupy the area where the Luhya ancestors had settled, and called it Lok-Kitang meaning 'the place of Kitang.' (Lokitaung is a modern town in North-Western Kenya).\n\nMulogoli was born from the union of Andimi and Mwanzu. Andimi had three wives: Mwanzu the mother of Mulogoli; Amugovolie who had no children and Ndiegu the mother of Mwenje or Anyole (these are the Wanyore, who inhabit Vihiga district together with the Maragoli). Naturally the Nyores and Maragoli are one, they are from the same stock, the stock of Andimi. Mulogoli had a wife called Khaliyesa. She had four male children. These four make the four major clans. The children were: Musaali; Kizungu; Kilima and M'mavi.\n\nIn Maragoli, the word 'Abaluhya' or 'Avaluhya' is pronounced as A(b/v)a-roo-shia, ('b' and 'v' are interchangeable) which means, \"the people of the North,\" \"the people of the higher place,\" \"the people from the North,\" or simply \"Northerners.\"\n\nLuhya ancestors moved further south, probably along the Turkwel river. The Turkwel's principal source is the Suam river. Luhyas, a people who needed a constant source of water for their crops, animals and various industries like metalworking, and building, kept moving along the Suam River depending on various environmental or human triggers, into what is now Western Kenya and Eastern Uganda, and settled near the source of that river, Mt. Elgon.\n\nThey displaced a people akin to the Khoisan of Southern Africa and settled in their current homeland of what is now Western Kenya. Before the Maragoli split into the present-day Kisii or Gusii and Maragoli people, they lived in, and built what is now the stone-ruins of Thimlich Ohinga before the Luo moved into the area, and settled.\n\nLuhya culture is comparable to most Bantu cultural practices. Polygamy was a common practice in the past but today, it is only practised by a few people. However, the Avalogooli people were traditionally monogamous just like the patriarch Mulogooli. Marriage was especially significant for young men as they were not alloed to own property before marriage.\n\nAbout 10 to 15 families traditionally made up a village, presided by a village headman - \"Ligutu.\" Ligutu/Rigutu means 'The Hearer/Ear' - as such a \"Ligutu\" can judge. Within a family, the man of the home was the ultimate authority, followed by his first-born son. In a polygamous family, the first wife held the most prestigious position among women.\n\nThe first-born son of the first wife was usually the main heir to his father, even if he happened to be younger than his half-brothers from his father's other wives. Daughters had no permanent position in Luhya families as they would eventually become other men's wives. They did not inherit property, and were excluded from decision-making meetings within the family. Today, women can inherit property and often make decisions on behalf of their families as per the judgement of Kenyan law and individual families.\n\nChildren are named after the clan's ancestors, or after their grandparents, or after events or the weather. The paternal grandparents take precedence, so that the first-born son will usually be named after his paternal grandfather (Guka/Guga), while the first-born daughter will be named after her paternal grandmother (Guku).\n\nSubsequent children may be named after maternal grandparents or after significant events. Some Maragoli names usually have names whereas others do not. For instance, names like Injugu (born during groundnut harvesting), Kabwoni (born during sweet potato harvesting) and Anzala (born during extreme drought) have meanings. Other names like Afandi, Inziria, Mwachi, Aliviza and Asava have no known meaning. Names of events are also common. For example, Imbarambara (born during road construction), Msuruve (born when a white missionary called Miss Reeves first came to Maragoli land) and Sirinji (born when money was first introduced in the land).\n\nTraditionally, Luhyas practised arranged marriage. The parents of a boy would approach the parents of a girl to ask for her hand in marriage. If the girl agreed, negotiations for dowry would begin. Typically, this would be 12 cattle and similar numbers of sheep or goats, to be paid by the groom's parents to the bride's family. Once the dowry was delivered, the girl was fetched by the groom's sisters to begin her new life as a wife.\n\nInstances of eloping were and are still common. Young men would elope with willing girls, with negotiations for dowry to be conducted later. In such cases, the young man would also pay a fine to the parents of the girl. In rare cases abductions were normal but the young man had to pay a fine. As polygamy was allowed, a middle-aged man would typically have 2 to 3 wives.\n\nWhen a man got very old and handed over the running of his homestead to his sons, the sons would sometimes find a young girl for the old man to marry. Such girls were normally those who could not find men to marry them, usually because they had children out of wedlock. Wife inheritance was and is also practised. A widow would normally be inherited by her husband's brother or cousin. Today, wife inheritance is uncommon to non-existent.\n\nIn some cases, the eldest son would also inherit his father's widows (though not his own mother). Modern day Luhyas do not practice some traditional customs as most have adopted the Christian way of life. Many Luhyas also live in urban towns and cities for most of their lives and only return to settle in the rural areas after retirement or the death of parents in the rural areas.\n\nThe Luhya had extensive customs surrounding death. There would be a great celebration at the home of the deceased, with mourning lasting up to forty days. If the deceased was a wealthy or influential man, a big tree would be uprooted and the deceased would be buried there, after the burial another tree, Mukumu would be planted (This was a sacred tree and is found along most Luhya migration paths it could only be planted by a righteous Lady mostly Virgin or a Very Old Lady).\n\nNowadays, mourning takes shorter periods of time (about one week) and the celebrations are held at the time of burial. \"Ovogogo\" and \"rovego\" are post burial ceremonies held to complete mourning rites.\n\nAnimal sacrifices were also traditionally practised. There was great fear of the \"avaroji\" (witches) and \"Babini\" (wizards). These were \"night-runners\" who prowled in the nude running from one house to another casting spells.\n\nMost modern day Luhyas are Christians and for some, (if not all), the word for God is Nyasaye or Nyasae.\n\nThe word Nyasae when translated into English roughly corresponds with \"Nya\" (of) and \"Asae/ Asaye/ Sae/ Saye/\" (God). The Luhya traditionally worshipped a god of the same name. When Christianity was first introduced among the Luhya in the early 1900s by various Christian missionaries from Europe and America, the Luhya took the name of their traditional god, Nyasae, forgot about their God, and gave that name to the God of Christianity, who, according to the Bible,is the father of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and whose son is Jesus Christ.\n\nThe first Luhyas who were converted into Christianity applied words that defined some aspects of the religious traditions that they were born into and gave them to Christ and the Christian god.\n\nThe Friends Church (Quakers), opened a mission at Kaimosi and the Church of God based in Anderson, Indiana took over the mission in Bunyore. During the same period the Catholic order Mill Hill Brothers came to the area of Mumias. The Church of God of Anderson, Indiana, USA, arrived in 1905 and began work at Kima in Bunyore. Other Christian groups such as the Anglicans (CMS) came in 1906. In 1924 the Pentecostal Assemblies of Canada began their work in Nyan'gori. The Salvation Army came to Malakisi in 1936. The Baptists came to western Kenya in the early 1960s.\n\nThe first Bible translation in the Luhya language was produced by Nicholas Stamp in the Wanga dialect. Osundwa says he did this translation in Mumias, the former capital of the Wanga kingdom of Mumia. There has been a strong Christian witness among the Luhya in the twentieth century. A religious sect known as Dini ya Msambwa was founded by Elijah Masinde in 1948. They worship \"Were,\" the god of Mt. Elgon, while at the same time using portions of the Bible to teach their converts. They also practice traditional arts termes witchcraft. This movement originally arose as part of an anti-colonial resistance.\n\nVarious sources estimate that Luhya are 75–90% professing Christians.\n\n2002-Iriambuka; 2009-DC(Disi wa kavaga)\n\nThe Luhya, except for the Marama and Saamia, practised male circumcision. The Maragoli did not practice clitoridectomy.\n\nTraditionally, circumcision was a period of training for adult responsibilities for the youth. Among the Kakamega Luhya, circumcision was carried out every four or five years, depending on the clan. This resulted in various age sets notably, Kolongolo, Kananachi, Kikwameti, Kinyikeu, Nyange, Maina, and Sawa in that order.\n\nLike the Abanyala living in Navakholo do the initiation of their young boys every other year and notably an even year. The initiates were about 8 to 13 years old, and the ceremony was followed by a period of seclusion for the initiates. On their coming out of seclusion, there would be a feast in the village, followed by a period of counselling by a group of elders.\n\nThe newly initiated youths would then build bachelor-huts for each other,the huts were called \"simba\" or \"esimba\" where they would stay until they were old enough to become warriors. This kind of initiation is no longer practised among the Kakamega Luhya, except for the Tiriki. Nowadays, the initiates are usually circumcised in hospital due to health benefits, and there is no seclusion period. On healing, a party is held for the initiate – who then usually goes back to school to continue with his studies. Among the Bukusu, the Tachoni and (to a much lesser extent) the Nyala and the Kabras, the traditional methods of initiation persist. Circumcision is held every even year in August and December (the latter only among the Tachoni and the Kabras), and the initiates are typically 11 to 15 years Traditions have however changed with the dynamics of life, and currently, like most communuties in Kenya, boys are initiated at the time the parent feels appropriate for their children and is now usually done during infancy with symbolic rites of passage during their preteen years.\n\nThe Luhya are, traditionally, agriculturalists, and they grow different crops depending on the region where they live. Close to Lake Victoria, the Saamia are mainly fishermen and traders, with their main agricultural activity being the raising of cassava. The Bukhusu and the Wanga are mainly cash crop farmers, raising sugar cane in Bungoma and Mumias areas respectively. The Bukhusu also farm wheat in the region around Kitale. The Isukha of Kakamega area and the Maragoli of Vihiga raise tea, while the rocky land of the Nyore is used to harvest stones and gravel for construction. In Bukura area, the Khisa are small scale and only subsistence maize farmers. They also rear cattle, sheep, goats and chicken on a small scale. The Kabras of Malava area raise mainly maize at subsistence levels, with a few also farming sugar cane.\n\nWith the rapid modernisation of Kenya, many young Luhya people have emigrated to Nairobi and other towns in search of work.\n\n"}
{"id": "17465070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17465070", "title": "Micronations: The Lonely Planet Guide to Home-Made Nations", "text": "Micronations: The Lonely Planet Guide to Home-Made Nations\n\nMicronations: The Lonely Planet Guide to Home-Made Nations is a gazetteer published by Lonely Planet. It has also been published under the name Micronations: The Lonely Planet Guide to Self-Proclaimed Nations. It was written by John Ryan, George Dunford and Simon Sellars.\n\nThe book's profile of micronations offers information on their flags, leaders, currencies, date of foundation, maps and other facts. Sidebars throughout the book provide overviews of such topics as coins and stamps and a profile of Emperor Norton.\n\nMicronations featured in the book include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12007355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12007355", "title": "Names of Buenos Aires", "text": "Names of Buenos Aires\n\nThe name of the city of Buenos Aires (), the capital of Argentina, means \"Good Airs\" or \"Fair Winds\" in Spanish. There are other places, mostly in the Americas, that go by the same name.\n\nWhen the Aragonese conquered Cagliari, Sardinia from the Pisans in 1324, they established their headquarters on top of a hill that overlooked the city. The hill was known to them as \"Buen Ayre\" (or \"Bonaria\" in Sardinian language), as it was free of the foul smell prevalent in the old city (the Castle area), which is adjacent to swampland. \"Foul smell\" is another word for malaria (\"mal aria\" = bad air), since at that time people believed the air to cause the illness. Swamps are the breeding ground of Anopheles mosquitoes, the vectors of malaria which had been plaguing Sardinia since the Phoencian first arrived, until the swamps were drained and treated with DDT in the 20th century. \n\nDuring the siege of Cagliari, the Aragonese built a sanctuary to the Virgin Mary on top of the hill. In 1335, King Alfonso the Gentle donated the church to the Mercedarians, who built an abbey that stands to this day. \n\nIn the years after that, a story circulated, claiming that a statue of the Virgin Mary was retrieved from the sea after it miraculously helped to calm a storm in the Mediterranean Sea. The statue was placed in the abbey. Spanish sailors, especially Andalusians, venerated this image and frequently invoked the \"Fair Winds\" to aid them in their navigation and prevent shipwrecks. A sanctuary to the Virgin of Buen Ayre would be later erected in Seville .\n\nIn 1536, Spanish seaman Pedro de Mendoza established a fort and port in current-day San Telmo (about one kilometre south of the current Buenos Aires city centre) and called it \"Santa María del Buen Aire\" (\"Our Lady of the Good Air\"). The city name was chosen by the chaplain of Mendoza's expedition, a devotee of the Virgin of Buen Ayre. (Another version says that one Leonardo Gribeo, who had witnessed the original miracle, was on Mendoza's crew.) The naming of Buenos Aires after the Sardinian virgin also suggested itself because Buenos Aires lies immediately beyond the southern limit of the South-American range of Anopheles species and was thus one of the first malaria-free ports for ships coming from the north.\n\nMendoza’s settlement soon came under attack by indigenous peoples, and was abandoned in 1541. A second (and permanent) settlement was established in 1580 by Juan de Garay, who sailed down the Paraná River from Asunción (now the capital of Paraguay). Garay preserved the name chosen by Mendoza, calling the city \"Ciudad de la Santísima Trinidad y Puerto de Nuestra Señora la Virgen María de los Buenos Aires\" (\"City of the Most Holy Trinity and Port of Saint Mary of the Good Airs\"). The short form \"Buenos Aires\" became the common usage during the 17th century.\n\nThe inhabitants of the city are called \"porteños\" (\"people of the port\") to acknowledge the centrality of the port of Buenos Aires in the development of the city and the nation.\n\nSince Buenos Aires's federalisation in 1880, the city proper includes the former towns of Belgrano and Flores; the resulting city was separated from Buenos Aires province.\n\nResidents of Buenos Aires province are called \"bonaerenses\".\n\nMost of the population of Greater Buenos Aires lives in the suburbs, which are part of the province. Depending on context, they may be called \"bonaerenses\" or (more commonly) by the demonym of their town (e.g. \"quilmeño\" to refer to a person from Quilmes). Suburbanites may be sometimes referred to as \"porteños\" by those unfamiliar with the details.\n\nIn the 1994 constitution, the city was given autonomy, hence its current formal name: Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires (Autonomous City of Buenos Aires), sometimes abbreviated as CABA.\n\nTo differentiate the city from the province of the same name, it is common to refer to the city as Capital Federal (\"Federal Capital\"). This name was used extensively in road signs, for postal addresses, and in everyday speech (shortened to \"Capital\" or even \"la Capi\"), but usage of that name has been in decline since 1994.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28757004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28757004", "title": "Natural Earth", "text": "Natural Earth\n\nNatural Earth is a public domain map dataset available at 1:10 million (1 cm = 100 km), 1:50 million, and 1:110 million map scales. Natural Earth's data set contains integrated vector and raster mapping data.\n\nThe original authors of the map dataset are Tom Patterson and Nathaniel Vaughn Kelso, but Natural Earth has expanded to be a collaboration of many volunteers and is supported by the North American Cartographic Information Society (NACIS). It is free for public use in any type of project.\n\nThe dataset includes the fictitious 1-meter-square Null Island at for error-checking purposes.\n\nAll versions of Natural Earth raster and vector map data on the Natural Earth website are in the public domain. Anyone may use the maps in any manner, including modifying the content and design.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "43619613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43619613", "title": "Ouled Naïl Range", "text": "Ouled Naïl Range\n\nThe Ouled Naïl Range (, ) is a mountain range in Algeria, part of the Saharan Atlas of the greater Atlas Mountain System. The range is named after a confederation of nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes, all of which claim to hail from Arab ancestors that arrived in the mountains in the eleventh century.\n\nThe Ouled Naïl mountain range is formed by parallel ridges rising between the level 850 m high terrain of the Hodna region of the \"Hautes Plaines\" in the north and the 600 m of the southern plain of the \"Dayas\". \nIt is located in the eastern zone of the Saharan Atlas, with the Amour Range in the western and the Zab Range at the eastern end.\n\nThe range is formed by mountains created by folds of the early Tertiary which remained relatively undisturbed after formation but have been heavily eroded. Their altitude is relatively moderate, the highest point of the range, Djebel Lazrag (جبل الأزرق), not even reaching 1,500 m. However, towards the south the look of the highest ridges is quite spectacular, with jagged sandstone or limestone outcrops and almost vertical walls. The part facing the Sahara has a less encumbered terrain with smooth mountaintops separated by water gaps.\n\nThe climate is dry in all the surrounding areas, but the rainfall is slightly better on the mountains. Therefore, cereal cultivation is possible in the heights, although with rather irregular results. Date palms are mostly absent throughout the range owing to the prevailing cold temperatures. They only grow in the few places at the feet of the Ouled Naïl mountains that are at an altitude below 600 m, such as near Bou Saada and the Oued Djedi.\n\nTwo important towns are located in the immediate area of the range, Bou-Saada to the north at the feet of the mountains and Djelfa in the middle of the range at an elevation of 1,208 m. North of Djelfa town there is an imposing physical feature known as \"Rocher de Sel\" (English: Salt Rock) that was formed from the erosion of rock salts and marls by rain.\n\nTo the west of the town Megalithic funerary structures are found. Neolithic art is widespread in different caves and walls throughout the range.\n\nThe range is well known for the Ouled Naïl people living in its cold highlands. Djelfa is an important market centre for the Ouled Naïl who live in black-and-red striped tents and claim ancient Arab descent. These semi-nomadic or nomadic people have traditionally reared cattle in the mountain grasslands. The years of drought and years with prolonged, cold winters are hard times for the Ouled Nail; in 1944 and 1947 about 50% of their livestock died.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46838264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46838264", "title": "Owari meisho zue", "text": "Owari meisho zue\n\nThe \"Owari meisho Zue\" followed the publication of the \"Edo meisho zue\", which sparked a public interest in travel guides.\n"}
{"id": "36938876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36938876", "title": "Red Maps", "text": "Red Maps\n\nRed Maps are a series of foldout guides to metropolitan cities in the United States and Europe. The NYC based company designs city blueprints dotted with boutiques, cafes and noteworthy sites. Red Maps contain detailed information on museums, architecture, shops, theaters and hotels. The color-coded guides include listings of cultural interest as well as restaurants, parks, popular landmarks and places of historical significance.\n\nJim Leniart is the owner and creator of Red Maps. He began his career in commercial real estate drawing maps for clients. Jim's decision to become a full-time cartographer led to the creation of Red Maps, which he founded in 1998. Beginning with a shopping guide to SoHo, by June 2000, two additional New York guides for Midtown and all of Manhattan, as well as maps to Los Angeles, San Francisco, Washington DC and Las Vegas were completed. In April 2001, Red Maps was named one of the Best Map Guides for San Francisco by Travel + Leisure. As of June 2012, more than 20 Red Maps have been created.\n\nAmong the 20 cities that Red Maps publishes its guides for are: Chicago, Miami, London, Paris, Barcelona, Rome and Milan. The New Yorker set lays out detailed block by block shopping guides and restaurants of SoHo, Nolita, Chelsea, Meatpacking District, Greenwich Village, Midtown, Brooklyn and Long Island City.\n\nRed Maps was chosen to create customized guides featuring all the key venues for the Fall and Spring shows of London Fashion Week from 2007-2011. In 2012, a custom made map of the Lincoln Center was redrawn by Red Maps in The Manhattan of Fashion Insiders book for New York Fashion Week.\n\n"}
{"id": "40311206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40311206", "title": "Ronald Horvath", "text": "Ronald Horvath\n\nRon (Ronald J.) Horvath (born 1937) has made contributions to the study of colonialism, African development, and urban geography of Sydney, Los Angeles, Detroit and Addis Ababa.\n\nHorvath was born in Scranton, Pennsylvania and educated at California State University, Long Beach (B.A., 1960) and UCLA (MA 1961, PhD 1966). While working on his PhD on \"Around Addis Ababa, a geographical study of the impact of a city on its surroundings\" he taught at Haile Selassie I University in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia (1963-5). He was an Assistant Professor at the University of California Santa Barbara 1965-1967, Michigan State University,1967-1972 during which time he participated in the foundation with William Bunge of the Detroit Geographical Expedition and Institute. He was visiting COMGA professor at North Carolina Central University in 1969 and visiting professor at Simon Fraser University, Vancouver BC, 1974-1976 before migrating to Australia in 1976. He taught geography at the School of Geosciences at the University of Sydney from 1976–1996 before retiring as Senior Lecturer.\n\nSince 2011, he has worked with the Sydney Alliance, which is dedicated building community and promoting social justice in the Sydney metropolitan region.\n\nHe married Barbara (Horvath), formerly an Associate Professor of Linguistics at the University of Sydney.\n\nHorvath acquired a range of skills in urban studies and agricultural geography during graduate study and fieldwork in Africa. On returning to the US and publishing in these areas he was soon involved in support for political change and Civil Rights, and until the early 1970s applied himself to questions of colonialism, race, and poverty in American society. A number of key publications resulted. His participation in William Bunge's and Gwendolen Warren's Detroit Geographical Expedition placed him at the centre of radical, and controversial application of geographical teaching and knowledge in the inner city, activities that were disruptive to academic norms.\n\nAn early statement of his interest in transport geography and automobiles came in 1974, \"If geographers are to participate more fully in planning and monitoring future technological growth, explicit recognition of the spatial dimensions of technological change will be necessary. Machine space, or territory devoted primarily to the use of machines, shall be so designated when machines have priority over people in the use of territory. Automobile territory in modern American cities exemplifies the concept of machine space.\" (Horvath 1974: 167-168).\n\n"}
{"id": "1677386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1677386", "title": "Sajama", "text": "Sajama\n\nSajama may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "4723798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4723798", "title": "Subdistrict", "text": "Subdistrict\n\nSubdistrict is a low-level administrative division of a district.\n\nIn Bangladesh, subdistricts are known as upazilas. They are the third-level and the second lowest-level subdivisions, below divisions and zilas (districts).\n\nIn Brunei, subdistricts are known as mukims and they are the second-level country subdivision, immediately below districts (). Mukims are subdivided into villages ().\n\nIn China, a subdistrict (), literally means \"street\".\n\nIn East Timor, a subdistrict is known by the Portuguese word .\n\nIn India, Census India calls the units below the district (जिला) and they are usually called subdivisions (अनुमंडल), tehsil (sometimes referred C D blocks प्रखंड), (taluk/ taluka / mandal) accordingly administrative divisions of india.\n\nIn Indonesia, subdistrict refers to kelurahan, which has same level with village.\n\nIn Israel, a subdistrict is known in Hebrew as nefa.\n\nIn Palestine, a subdistrict is known in Arabic as qadaa.\n\nIn Thailand, the equivalent of a subdistrict may be amphoe or tambon.\n\nIn England and Wales, subdistrict was part of a registration district.\n\nKaza was the Turkish term for subdistricts during the Ottoman Empire\n"}
{"id": "21410765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21410765", "title": "Sōya (icebreaker)", "text": "Sōya (icebreaker)\n\nThe vessel was built as \"Volochaevets\", commissioned by the Soviets in 1936 from the Matsuo shipyard, on Nagaskai's Koyagi Island, as part-payment for Japan's construction of the South Manchuria Railway (also known as the Chinese Eastern Railway). Two other ice-strengthened cargo ships were ordered at the same time, \"Bolshevik\" and \"Komsomolets\". All three were built but, owing to the worsening state of Japan-Soviet relations by that time, the ships were never delivered. \"Volochaevets\" was launched from the now renamed Kawaminami Shipyard in February 1938. She was completed as an ice-breaking cargo freighter for the Tatsunan Kisen Co. and was renamed \"Chiryō Maru\". \"Bolshevik\" and \"Komsomolets\" were renamed \"Minryo Maru\" and \"Tenryo Maru\".\n\nIn November 1939 the Imperial Japanese Navy requisitioned \"Chiryo Maru\" for national service. In February 1940 she was renamed \"Sōya\", a name previously held by the former \"Varyag\", an armoured cruiser seized from Imperial Russia but which Japan returned in 1916. The icebreaker \"Sōya\" was assigned duties as an auxiliary ammunition supply and survey vessel. She survived the Second World War, albeit with multiple close calls. In January 1943 \"Sōya\" was attacked by . The torpedoes either missed or proved to be duds: \"Sōya\"s crew hoisted one undetonated torpedo onto the deck in celebration. In February 1944 aircraft from TF58 attacked the Japanese anchorage at Truk, sinking 41 Japanese vessels. \"Sōya\" escaped but ran aground as she did so. Ten crewmembers were killed. On 26 June 1945 the submarine attacked a convoy escorting \"Sōya\" and other transport ships from Yokohama to Hakodate, sinking an escort vessel and disabling one transport ship. On 9 August 1945 \"Sōya\" was at anchor in Onagawa Bay as part of a flotilla with other vessels when British bombers attacked from the air, sinking at least two of them.\n\nAfter the war, with Japan in defeat and needing to repatriate millions of individuals from its former colonies, \"Sōya\" was removed from the navy list and was assigned duties with the nation's repatriation fleet. Modifications at this time included removal of her guns and the installation of facilities for passengers such as toilets in what had been her large forward and aft cargo holds. Spacious wooden accommodation was also built on deck. She undertook numerous missions embarking troops and passengers, including calls at Shanghai, Tinian and Guam. In light of her ice-breaking ability, she was also assigned northerly missions and by 1948 had made 14 voyages to and from Sakhalin (the former Karafuto), evacuating citizens by agreement with the new authorities from what had become part of the Soviet Union.\n\nIn 1949, her repatriation duties ceased and \"Sōya\" was transferred to the Maritime Safety Agency, the precursor to the Japan Coast Guard. In a new role supplying remote lighthouses she is reputed to have become known in some circles as the 'Santa Claus of the Sea'.\n\nIn 1950 the ship received a comprehensive refit in preparation for service as Japan's first dedicated Antarctic research ship. In 1956 further modifications included the replacement of her steam engine with twin diesel engines and the installation of a helicopter deck with the ability to store light helicopters for voyage. In 1957 her forward gunwale was built up and 1958 a further refit added a second, larger helicopter deck above the earlier one, which became a vast new storage space. Between 1956 and 1962 \"Sōya\" undertook missions to the Antarctic. Her second voyage, in 1958, made headlines worldwide when she rescued personnel stranded at the Showa research station in the face of approaching winter. The evacuation did not extend to the mission's dogs, and 15 Karafuto-Ken huskies were abandoned to fend for themselves on the ice. The following spring the ship returned to find two dogs still alive. The mutts, named Taro and Jiro, became bywords in Japan for fortitude. The story travelled worldwide thanks in part to two movies: \"Nankyoku Monogatari\" (lit. \"South Pole Story\"; released in the U.S. as \"Antarctica\") and a treatment by Disney in the Hollywood film \"Eight Below\". \"Sōya\" herself experienced hardship during her time in the Antarctic, including becoming stuck in the ice and needing assistance from the nearby Russian icebreaker \"Ob\".\n\nWhen retired from Antarctic duties, \"Sōya\" became an ice-breaking rescue ship for Japan's Maritime Safety Agency. \"Sōya\" was based during this period in Hokkaido.\n\n\"Sōya\" was fully decommissioned in 1978. Her last mission was a farewell tour to communities she had served, including the port of Hakodate, and photographs exist from this period of well-wishers swarming the ship before her departure. In 1979 \"Sōya\" was moored alongside at the Museum of Maritime Science, Tokyo, and remains open to the public as a museum ship, open daily and generally closed only when typhoons threaten Tokyo. She remains in largely original condition. Her propellers have been removed and placed on deck but her interior is largely intact from Antarctic exploration days. However, as a result of modifications made in the 1950s her superstructure has changed considerably from her appearance during World War II. Gone are the tall funnel and aft crane assembly, while the addition of a helicopter landing deck and higher forward gunwales give her a beefier appearance than the cargo ship she started out as.\n"}
{"id": "2356482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2356482", "title": "TOID", "text": "TOID\n\nA TOID (TOpographic IDentifier, pronounced \"toyed\") is a unique reference identifier assigned by the Ordnance Survey to identify every feature in Great Britain. The identifier consists of two parts, a prefix ‘osgb’ and a unique identifier that is 13-16 digits long. In GML 2, a TOID is encoded as a gml:fid (Feature Identifier); in GML 3 as a gml:id.\n\nAround 440 million man-made and natural features have been thus identified: buildings, roads, fields, phone boxes, pillar boxes, landmarks and many other types. The identification system is designed to be used in GIS, digital cartography and in any customized computer application, including non-cartographic ones, where information about fixed, real-world features needs to be managed. Using consistent identifiers (IDs) makes it much easier to share data between various kinds of applications and systems. A TOID remains constant throughout the lifetime of the real-world feature it identifies, and is guaranteed not to be reassigned to anything else when the feature no longer exists.\n\nExample: the TOID for the Tower of London is osgb1000006032892.\n\nOS MasterMap, Ordnance Survey's master database, depends on TOIDs. Every feature is identified by a TOID in MasterMap. Other attributes of the feature are defined by relating them, via GML, to the TOID. Users of OS MasterMap relate their own data to TOIDs of items of interest to them. Unlike with a custom designed GIS, one organization can share data with another organization easily since TOIDs are maintained centrally by Ordnance Survey, and are free to reuse.\n\nIf the data for a feature is edited, for example to reflect a real-life change or to correct an error, then the changes are referenced by TOID. Unless the feature has undergone drastic change, the feature keeps its original TOID, enabling one to track changes to a feature over time if one has access to the historic data.\n\nEvery object in OS MasterMap has its own TOID, including features representing buildings, roads, addresses, and cartographic text. Complex entities such as Southampton Central railway station, are defined in terms of multiple TOIDs: one for the main building, several others for the platforms, and another for the pedestrian bridge over the tracks. The OS MasterMap Sites Layer has a single TOID for these 'sites'. Similarly, users can create their own \"supertoid\" that unites features into one entity. This also acknowledges that defining the boundaries of vaguely defined folk objects is subjective: should the station car-park be defined as part of the station, for example? The TOID scheme leaves such decisions to its users, that is, those building information systems for end-users.\n\nIn keeping with recent Open Data initiatives, Ordnance Survey has stated its policy on royalty free use of the TOID with the aim of allowing easier integration of data using its spatial database: a core part of its vision of a Digital National Framework.\n\n\"TOID\" is a registered trademark of Ordnance Survey.\n\n"}
{"id": "8787876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8787876", "title": "The Mountain Institute", "text": "The Mountain Institute\n\nThe Mountain Institute (TMI) is an international non-profit organization dedicated to protecting the world's mountains by conserving mountain ecosystems and empowering the people in mountain communities. The Mountain Institute is headquartered in Washington, D.C. and operates regional field offices in the Andes, Appalachians, and Himalayas. Respectively, these are the longest, the oldest, and the tallest mountain ranges in the world.\n\nThe Mountain Institute was founded in 1972 as the Woodlands & Whitewater Institute in Cherry Grove, West Virginia by Daniel C. Taylor and King Seegar. The organization's goal was to facilitate children sharing activities with their parents, experiencing adventure together, and developing relationships that would support and guide them through adolescence. Woodlands was designed as a \"family equivalent to Outward Bound and National Outdoor Leadership School\" with courses that brought together fathers and sons and fathers and daughters for rock climbing, caving, backpacking, fly fishing, photography, falconry, and survival skills. These outings were based out of the Spruce Knob Mountain Center, a 400-acre tract of land abutting the Monongahela National Forest on the west side of Spruce Mountain in West Virginia.\n\nIn 1973, TMI's work expanded to experiential and leadership education for youth. The Baltimore Friends School, of which TMI's founders are alumni, was the first school course. St. Paul's School for Girls came next, and the founders were soon working with a number of schools in the Baltimore, Washington, D.C., Pittsburgh, and New York City areas. These school courses quickly became TMI's niche in the experiential education world and remain so today.\n\nTMI became an international organization in 1987, when it assisted in the establishment of Makalu Barun National Park in Nepal and the adjacent Qomolangma National Nature Preserve in the Tibet Autonomous Region of China. At this time, the organization changed its name to \"Woodlands Mountain Institute\" to reflect its broad work in the world's mountain ranges. \"Woodlands\" was later dropped.\n\nThe Andes program began in 1996, as large scale mining and hydroelectric projects and a sharp increase in tourism coincided with a rapid decline in traditional means of livelihood within local communities. The resulting conflict between development and traditional cultures not only exacerbated the economic challenges faced by local populations, it also accelerated deterioration of local mountain ecosystems.\nTo address these issues, TMI developed comprehensive community-based projects to demonstrate the potential for diversifying local methods of subsistence through community-based tourism and protection of biodiversity hotspots. The program has grown in the past 15 years and Instituto de Montaña is now recognized as one of the leading NGOs in Peru.\n\nThe Appalachian Program focuses on developing an understanding and appreciation for the complex interaction between community, culture, and conservation through education and sustainable community initiatives.\n\nThe Mountain Institute has been involved in a variety of conservation and community programs in the Himalayas since 1987.\n\nAmong these programs is the Medicinal and Aromatic Plants (MAPs) program, in which TMI works with farmers in the Sacred Himalayan Landscape by teaching them to cultivate medical plants, having trained over 12,500 since 2001.\n"}
{"id": "42487303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42487303", "title": "TransPanama Trail", "text": "TransPanama Trail\n\nTransPanama Trail or TransPanama Hike is a walking trail of 700 miles in length located in Panama. This hiking trail was opened during 2009 and involves walking, hiking, canoeing and passes through neighboring provinces like the Darien Gap etc. Rick Morales is the first person to complete TransPanama Trail on 23 September 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56825099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56825099", "title": "Vehicle registration plates of Tonga", "text": "Vehicle registration plates of Tonga\n\nTonga requires its residents to register their motor vehicles and display vehicle registration plates. Current plates are Australian standard 372 mm × 134 mm, are white on black, and it is the duty of the owner to get the license plate made.\n"}
{"id": "2493815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2493815", "title": "Weather hole", "text": "Weather hole\n\nA weather hole is a location that receives calmer weather than the surrounding area. It is an area thunderstorms often miss, or near which approaching storms often dissipate.\n\nA 2005 study entitled \"Do Meteorologists Suppress Thunderstorms?: Radar-Derived Statistics and the Behavior of Moist Convection\" examined 28 target cities and random control points in the U.S. They were compared to their surroundings in order to determine whether these target points were weather holes or the opposite, hot spots. A determination was made by measuring and comparing the convective echoes of the target points with the surrounding area. Only one target was classified as a weather hole, and one was classified as a hot spot. Most selected targets experienced convective echoes as often as their surrounding areas.\n\nAccording to the a study's authors, the \"results suggest that meteorologists are unnecessarily cranky about the frequency of storms in their hometowns.\" It has been suggested that Grand Forks, ND is a weather hole.\n"}
{"id": "3262732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3262732", "title": "World Map at Lake Klejtrup", "text": "World Map at Lake Klejtrup\n\nThe World Map at Lake Klejtrup () is a miniature world map built of stones and grass in Klejtrup Sø near the village of Klejtrup, Viborg Municipality, Denmark.\n\nIn 1943, Søren Poulsen, a local farmer, was working on the drainage of the surrounding meadows when he found a stone shaped like the Jutland peninsula. This inspired him to create a small world of his own. During the winter months, with the use of primitive tools, he placed big stones carefully on the ice. When spring arrived, the stones could easily be tilted into place, and in this way the World Map took shape. Some of the stones used weighted more than 2 tonnes. \n\nPoulsen created the World Map between 1944 and 1969. It measures 45 by 90 metres (49 by 98 yards), covering an area of over 4000 square meters (1 acre). One 111-kilometre (69 mi) degree of latitude corresponds to 27 centimetres (11 inches) on the map. On Poulsen's map, Antarctica is not present and the Northern Hemisphere is marked in two places, ensuring a better impression of the correct distances between the countries to avoid the difficulties of spreading out our planet's globular shape. Red poles mark the equator, and each country is represented by miniature flags, which are updated yearly. State borders in the United States of America are marked with yellow bricks; Poulsen lived 20 years in America.\n\nThe map is the epicenter of a park, which has, among other attractions, a picnic area, a coffee shop and a playground. \n\nThe World Map is an important attraction in the area, and attracts about 40,000 visitors per year, most of them Danish.\n\n\n"}
