{"id": "50995425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50995425", "title": "2014 GSOC bugging scandal", "text": "2014 GSOC bugging scandal\n\nThe GSOC bugging scandal in February 2014 involved revelations that the offices of the Garda Síochána Ombudsman Commission, Ireland's independent police watchdog, were under covert electronic surveillance by an unknown party. John Mooney, security correspondent for \"The Sunday Times\", first published the story alleging that GSOC had been the subject of surveillance by an unidentified party using \"government level technology\" to hack into its emails, Wi-Fi and telephone systems. The espionage operation was uncovered by a private British counter-surveillance firm, \"Verrimus\", whom GSOC hired after its suspicions became aroused of outside spying on the organisation and its activities.\n\nThe scandal and its aftermath are widely attributed to be one of the main reasons, along with the Garda whistleblower scandal, for the resignations of the then Garda Commissioner Martin Callinan (in March 2014) and Minister for Justice and Defence Alan Shatter (in May 2014). GSOC Chairman, Simon O'Brien, also resigned from his job in January 2015, ten months after the bugging allegations became public knowledge.\n\n\"Verrimus\", the UK-based private counterintelligence company which uses countermeasures and specialist devices to uncover electronic surveillance, and employs former British military and intelligence personnel, was paid €18,000 by GSOC for its services over a number of days (it came to Dublin during the night to avoid arousing the suspicions of anyone watching GSOC) and found the following;\n\nGSOC employed Verrimus after it had consulted with the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC), which is responsible for investigating complaints against police forces in England and Wales.\n\nThe most likely explanation for the surveillance operation and those that stood most to gain from it and had the experience and access to the technology required were the Garda Síochána, Ireland's national police service. Although no direct evidence was ever found linking the Garda force or its members to the espionage, GSOC investigated many sensitive matters relating to the force including investigations involving senior members of the force. It was reported that the reason GSOC ordered the bug sweep in the first place was because after a meeting with a senior Garda officer during the course of a malpractice investigation by the watchdog, the senior Garda inadvertently let slip that he was aware of contents of a secret report which GSOC had been working on, which had not yet been released, and that he was aware of text that actually never made it into the final report. Units of the force which have the ability to carry out such high-tech monitoring include the Crime and Security Branch, National Surveillance Unit and Special Detective Unit.\n\nThe Irish Defence Forces and Revenue Commissioners are the only other two state agencies in Ireland which have the legal authority to carry out covert surveillance operations. The Irish Army and its Military Intelligence and Communications & Information Services Corps have the ability to undertake sophisticated intelligence operations, but no evidence whatsoever was proffered implicating either the military or Revenue, nor would they have stood much to gain from any information gathered.\n\nThe United Kingdom's GCHQ and other intelligence services in the past have collected information concerning actions taken by the Irish government, and a second unauthorised spoofing Wi-Fi network discovered at GSOC's head office was traced back to the UK, however it is believed that was a deliberate act to hide the culprit's tracks. \n\n\"The Sunday Times\" reported that the NSA in the United States had in the past used very similar technology to spy on targets, and in the aftermath of the Edward Snowden leaks the year before, suspicion was rife about NSA activities in Europe. However, the US had little to gain by surveilling an Irish police watchdog's investigations into corruption and malpractice, and none of GSOC's current investigations involved either the UK or US.\n\nAccording to journalist John Mooney, he linked the bugging operation to GSOC's investigation of the Garda handling of the Kieran Boylan case, a convicted drug-runner who was assisted by Gardaí in obtaining a passport, a haulage licence and had a prosecution for drug offences annulled in extraordinary circumstances. After the results of the security sweep, GSOC did not bring them to the attention of the Minister for Justice or the Garda Síochána (who would usually investigate such matters), instead they emerged through the media.\n\nThis was the second such security sweep GSOC had undertaken, and it was also understood to be concerned about the level of detail emerging publicly regarding ongoing cases. Electronic security procedures were improved after the sweep, including a conference room which cannot not be bugged.\n\nThe government appointed retired High Court Judge John Cooke to conduct an independent inquiry into reports of unlawful surveillance of the Garda Siochána Ombudsman Commission. He could find neither conclusive evidence supporting the surveillance allegations, or by whom, or that it didn't occur in the first place. Judge Cooke was the only person to undertake the inquiry, which did not include any technical expertise as had been called for by opposition parties.\n\nA number of weeks after news of the bugging at GSOC broke, on 25 March 2014, Garda Commissioner Martin Callinan resigned citing \"early retirement\" after it was believed the government lost confidence in his leadership and wanted a fresh face to head the force.\n\nMinister for Justice and Defence Alan Shatter, who had a very close working relationship with Commissioner Callinan, resigned from government on 7 May 2014 and later lost his seat as a TD in Dáil Éireann at the 2016 general election. Questions had been raised about the unusual and potentially conflicting occurrence of a Minister holding not only both the Justice and Defence portfolios (housing the two main intelligence services of the state), but also in charge of both the Gardaí and the watchdog whose sole responsibility it is to investigate them. \n\nChairman of the Garda Síochána Ombudsman Commission, Simon O'Brien, announced his resignation on 7 January 2015 with two years remaining on his contract to take up a role as chief executive of the Pensions Ombudsman Service in the UK. Both the Association of Garda Sergeants and Inspectors (AGSI) and the Garda Representative Association (GRA) had previously called on him to step down over his handling of the bugging scandal, despite being the victim of it.\n\n"}
{"id": "20776579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20776579", "title": "Anglo Irish Bank hidden loans controversy", "text": "Anglo Irish Bank hidden loans controversy\n\nThe Anglo Irish Bank hidden loans controversy (also known as the circular transactions controversy) began in Dublin in December 2008 when Seán FitzPatrick, the chairman of Anglo Irish Bank (the state's third-largest bank), admitted he had hidden a total of €87 million in loans from the bank, triggering a series of incidents which led to the eventual nationalisation of Anglo on 21 January 2009. FitzPatrick subsequently resigned his position and was followed within twenty-four hours by the bank's non-executive director, Lar Bradshaw and chief executive, David Drumm. A new chairman of Anglo, Donal O'Connor, was quickly appointed from the board, a move welcomed by the Irish Minister for Finance, Brian Lenihan. A number of investigations have been launched into the reasons behind the three resignations. The Central Bank of Ireland is carrying out a review of the bank's dealings, although its Financial Regulator, Patrick Neary, has also since resigned his position. So too did a number of other chairmen, directors and executives involved with Anglo, Irish Life and Permanent and Irish Nationwide.\n\nWithin days of the initial admission, an announcement was made that Anglo Irish Bank would be one of three (alongside Allied Irish Bank and Bank of Ireland) that would be recapitalised by the Irish government. The recapitalisation of Anglo Irish Bank was expected to be effected in mid-January 2009, following an Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM). Lenihan instead unexpectedly announced the nationalisation of Anglo Irish Bank the night before the EGM due to difficulties he encountered with the recapitalisation process. Recapitalisations of the other two banks mentioned were expected by the end of March 2009 but, according to Taoiseach Brian Cowen, were expected to be finalised in early February 2009 at a total of €7 billion. The nationalisation of Anglo Irish Bank on 21 January 2009 followed two more resignations earlier that month. On 7 January 2009, another director, Willie McAteer, resigned, becoming the fourth casualty of the controversy. Two days later the Financial Regulator Patrick Neary retired amidst much criticism over his handling of the affair. After the nationalisation, the Chairman of Irish Nationwide, Dr Michael Walsh, resigned on 17 February, one week to the day that government-appointed directors announced they were investigating a deposit of billions of euro by Irish Life and Permanent, placed in Anglo Irish Bank before the end of its financial year.\n\nTaoiseach Brian Cowen denied claims that he was protecting a \"Golden Circle\" of wealthy financiers from being identified. This mysterious group of ten businessmen is said to have received loans from Anglo Irish Bank in return for buying shares, in a move designed to keep the bank afloat.\n\nStarting in 1986, Seán \"Seanie\" FitzPatrick spent eighteen years as chief executive of Anglo Irish Bank, during which time the bank grew from a small operator into the third-largest bank in Ireland. When he became the bank's chairman in 2005, handing over the position of chief executive to David Drumm, the bank was recording annual profits of over €500 million. The Anglo share price peaked at €17.60 in May 2007, an increase from under €1 ten years previously. Anglo was valued at nearly €13 billion and FitzPatrick's 4.5 million Anglo shares were worth nearly €80 million at this time. Prior to FitzPatrick's resignation, the Anglo share price had already dropped to €0.32, a drop of 98% with the entire bank valued at a low €242 million and FitzPatrick's stake reduced to €1.5 million.\n\nThe Financial Regulator first uncovered the €87 million loans in January 2008 when inspectors from the regulator's offices carried out an inspection into the loan book of rival lender, Irish Nationwide Building Society. The inspectors noticed that a large loan was provided to FitzPatrick at Anglo Irish Bank and later repaid. The Regulator discovered at a later date that similar loans were provided to FitzPatrick in September 2008 and repaid by him in October 2008. When the issue was raised with Anglo Irish Bank it was discovered that there were further loans between the two banks over an extended period of eight years.\n\nIt is uncertain which officials, if any, within the bank knew about the loans.\n\nEvery Anglo annual report contained a note displaying the total loans given to directors of the bank. This total was measured at a single point in time. In the case of Anglo this occurred on 30 September. FitzPatrick, instead of revealing the true figures of his loans, transferred some of them to Irish Nationwide Building Society, returning them to Anglo at a later date. He acted in a manner that thwarted transparency of Anglo's loan book. Financial authorities investigated if there were breaches of corporate governance. The Chief Executive of the Financial Regulator said that \"a lay person would expect that issues of this nature and this magnitude would have been picked up\" by the external auditors, Ernst & Young. After receiving legal advice Ernst & Young declined to appear before a parliamentary committee.\n\nThis in turn led to inaccurate figures for the total directors' loans given for eight consecutive years in the end of year Anglo accounts. 2008 was the first occasion on which FitzPatrick revealed his true figure, that of €87 million or twice the total of the other twelve directors' loan figures.\n\nThe situation was described as Ireland's version of Enron, the American energy company which went bankrupt in 2001, and it was said that the principals would have been immediately arrested if this had occurred in the United States.\n\nFitzPatrick issued a statement on the evening of 18 December 2008, linking his resignation with a €87 million loan he had from the bank. Ireland's Minister for Finance, Brian Lenihan welcomed the appointment of a new chairman, Donal O'Connor, an official with a substantial commercial track record, saying he \"seems a natural choice\" for the role. FitzPatrick's resignation came little over two months after he had admitted that his former bank had made mistakes but insisted it had not been \"reckless\". Alongside FitzPatrick's resignation came that of Bradshaw who had held a loan jointly with FitzPatrick, a loan that was temporarily transferred to another bank prior to a year end audit without the knowledge of Bradshaw. On the evening of 19 December, Drumm announced he would step down with immediate effect, but said he will continue to work with the chairman through a transition phase until a replacement chief executive is agreed upon.\n\n\"It is appropriate for me to step down today given last evening's announcement in relation to the resignation of Seán FitzPatrick and given the strong statement of support for the Bank and its recapitalisation programme by the Minister for Finance. Good progress is being made on the recapitalisation. It is undoubtedly in the best interests of Anglo that a new Chief Executive is appointed to lead the Bank through its next phase of development. The appointment of Donal O'Connor as Chairman together with a new Chief Executive augurs well for the Bank and for all its stakeholders. It gives the Bank fresh impetus and an upward trajectory. I would like to thank all of my colleagues for their intense commitment and honest endeavour and for their friendship over the last 15 years.\"\n\nOn 7 January 2009, Willie McAteer resigned his position as finance director and chief risk officer.\n\nOn 15 January 2009 the Government of Ireland nationalised Anglo Irish Bank and its shares were suspended on the Dublin and London Stock Exchanges.\n\nOn 19 January 2009, the balance of the Board, who had served while FitzPatrick was chairman, resigned. The consequence of Anglo's nationalisation caused steep falls, up to 50%, in the market value of the other two large banks on 19 January 2009.\n\nFollowing reports of a communication breakdown at the office of the Financial Services Regulatory Authority, the Financial Regulator Patrick Neary on 9 January 2009 announced his decision to retire as of 31 January that year. Neary's weakness in dealing with the issue has received much criticism, with Green Party Senator Dan Boyle calling for a strengthening of powers within the organisation and saying that confidence in Irish financial services had been eroded by events of the previous six months. Financial observers indicated that a replacement for Neary might have to be located in the United States or in Britain.\n\nThere were also reports that the Financial Regulator may have known of the loans for eight years prior to their revelation. The Fine Gael finance spokesman Richard Bruton called for the board and senior management of the Financial Regulator to be sacked. The Financial Regulator hired a partner from Ernst & Young, to advise on the €440 billion bank guarantee scheme in January 2009, despite the fact that serious questions have been asked about why Ernst & Young did not spot the massive loans that former chief executive Seán FitzPatrick concealed from his shareholders for eight years. Consultants Mazars, which reviewed their operations said \"that regulatory expertise was lacking in some areas.\"\n\nOn the evening of 17 February 2009, the Chairman of the building society Irish Nationwide, Dr Michael Walsh, resigned his position.\n\nOn 23 February 2009, the former Anglo Irish Bank director Anne Heraty unexpectedly resigned from the board of the ISEQ. The following morning, Dublin's ISEQ index fell over 3% to stand at 1,987, a 14-year low. The last time it stood under the 2,000 level was the middle of 1995.\n\nOn the evening of 24 February 2009, the chairman of the Dublin Airport Authority (DAA), Gary McGann, announced his decision to step down from the board, stating that his decision had been influenced by his former non-executive directorship of Anglo Irish Bank.\n\nAnglo Irish Bank has said it would review its policy on directors' loans following FitzPatrick's resignation. The Financial Regulator announced he would be examining the loans issued by Anglo Irish Bank to all its directors, claiming he became aware of the existence of the loans \"following an inspection earlier this year\". Ultimately he became a victim of the controversy and subsequently announced his retirement.\n\nThe Chartered Accountants Regulatory Board (CARB) undertook an investigation into the \"circumstances around the issue of inappropriate directors' loans at Anglo Irish\"and into the performance of Ernst and Young. The Irish Association of Investment Managers expressed how it was \"surprised and disappointed\" at the controversy and announced it would be writing to Anglo's new chairman to describe its worries.\n\nThe Irish State subsequently announced it was to become the majority shareholder in Anglo Irish Bank by injecting €3 billion into the bank. Opposition party Fine Gael opposed this move and stated on 14 January 2009 that the bank should be shut down but the following evening the Irish government announced that recapitalisation was no longer a serious option and nationalised the bank instead. Lenihan stated that \"clear blue water\" had been inserted between the old and new versions of Anglo and defended the nationalisation by saying that if the government were to let the bank fail it would be saying to Ireland and other economies that the country was \"closed for business\". At an Emergency General Meeting held at the Mansion House, Dublin on 16 January 2009, the bank's shareholders angrily voiced their opinions on FitzPatrick's involvement in the bank's downfall and their lack of confidence in the banking sector. The auditors, Ernst & Young were also criticised for failing to detect the loans during their audits. At the EGM the total level of loans to directors was announced as €179 million.\n\nEmergency legislation to nationalise the bank, titled the Anglo Irish Bank Corporation Bill 2009, was voted through Dáil Éireann, being approved by 79 – 67 before passing in Seanad Éireann without a vote on 20 January 2009. During the Seanad's debate on the bill, Senator Shane Ross claimed that \"no-one was being told the truth about Anglo Irish Bank\" and called the EGM of the previous Friday \"a disgrace show[ing] corporate Ireland at its worst, as there were no answers to any questions\". Senator Joe O'Toole advocated the chasing of those responsible for the bank's nationalisation \"even into the courts\", saying that a person could be imprisoned for failure to pay a household bill, yet those who caused the loss of jobs and pensions might not. President Mary McAleese then signed the Anglo Irish Bank Bill at Áras an Uachtaráin the following day.\n\nThe bank's internal auditors appeared before the Oireachtas Joint Committee on Economic Regulatory Affairs on 3 February 2009 to discuss the nationalisation of Anglo Irish Bank. The bank's head of internal audit, Walter Tyrrell, told the Oireachtas committee that the movement of loans by Seán FitzPatrick into the bank and back out again could only have been known by FitzPatrick himself and the executive of his account, claiming that loans were tested by means of random sampling and that FitzPatrick's loans had not once been selected - however one loan he held with a partner was chosen. Fine Gael's Kieran O'Donnell expressed his amazement that each of the directors' loans were not tested.\n\nOn 11 February 2009, Lenihan revealed plans under which €3.5 billion ($4.5 billion, £3.1 billion) each would be provided by the government's purchase of options intended to re-capitalise Allied Irish Bank and the Bank of Ireland.\n\nThe Financial Regulator, on the recommendation of the Irish Finance Minister, ordered an \"urgent review\" of directors' loans at Anglo Irish Bank, saying it has a \"very serious view\" of the issue. It claimed the loans were \"first brought to its attention on December 17th 2008\" and that a committee had been established to investigate the matter. Irish Minister for Social and Family Affairs Mary Hanafin said the Financial Regulator had \"serious questions\" to answer over its supposed lack of knowledge of the loans and the Irish Minister for the Environment, Heritage and Local Government John Gormley asked the Financial Regulator to explain what he termed \"extraordinary complacency\" in relation to the situation at Anglo Irish Bank. The opposition party Fine Gael's deputy leader and finance representative Richard Bruton quizzed the Minister for Finance on his announcement that he would provide the necessary capital to Anglo Irish Bank.\n\nOn 12 February 2009, details of a further controversial transaction which had the effect of misrepresenting the end-of-year accounts of Anglo-Irish Bank came into the public domain. Anglo-Irish Bank lent €4bn to Irish Life & Permanent (IL&P) for 1 day by way of inter-bank loan, and a subsidiary of Irish Life placed a deposit of a similar amount with Anglo, which was recorded as a customer deposit. Following a discussion with the Minister for Finance, a board meeting of IL&P accepted the resignation of two senior IL&P executives.\n\nOn 17 February, Taoiseach Brian Cowen informed Dáil Éireann of his knowledge of a group of ten wealthy businessmen who had come together to buy shares in Anglo Irish Bank in 2008 in a transaction which is now at the centre of an investigation by the Office of Corporate Enforcement. Cowen has since denied suggestions put forth by the Opposition that he was attempting to protect anyone involved in this so-called \"Golden Circle\". The mystery has been discussed in Dáil Éireann since its revelation, with Minister for the Environment, Community and Local Government and Green Party leader John Gormley calling for the names to be made public if a legal way of doing so could be found. Anglo Irish Bank's annual report alongside the PricewaterhouseCooper report on the bank were both published on 20 February but Tánaiste Mary Coughlan stated beforehand that the ten would not be named in either report. The Anglo report revealed that the bank lent €451 million to the ten \"Golden Circle\" clients, a 50% increase on previous estimates of €300 million. That same evening, Brian Lenihan also issued a statement containing extracts from the report carried out by PricewaterhouseCooper for the Financial Regulator. The morning before its publication, Ulick McEvaddy appeared on RTÉ Radio 1 alongside the Socialist Party's Joe Higgins, where he stated that the ten were \"heroes\" in his opinion (Joe Higgins disagreed). \"The Sunday Times\" published the names of four of the Golden Circle members on 22 February. The four members of the elite are Gerry Gannon, Joe O'Reilly, Seamus Ross and Jerry Conlan. The same article declared that Sean Mulryan, Patrick Doherty, Sean Dunne, Derek Quinlan, Denis O'Brien, JP McManus, John Magnier, Noel Smyth, Michael Whelan, Jim Mansfield, Richard Barrett, Johnny Ronan and Fintan Drury were not among the chosen ten. Minister Dick Roche has since stated that the ten cannot be named.\nOn 23 July 2012 the Irish Independent identified the ten members of the golden circle as Belfast-born developer Paddy McKillen, Mennolly Homes's Seamus Ross, auctioneer Brian O'Farrell, John McCabe of McCabe Builders, developer Gerry Maguire, Belfast's Patrick Kearney, Gerry Gannon of Gannon Homes who had a stake in the K Club Ryder Cup golf resort, Kildare businessman Jerry Conlan, Sean Reilly of the McGarrell Reilly firm and developer Joe O'Reilly.\n\nOn 24 February 2009, members of the Garda Bureau of Fraud Investigation executed a District Court warrant at the headquarters of Anglo Irish Bank on St Stephen's Green, Dublin. The warrant, issued the previous day, allowed the Gardaí, acting on behalf of the Office of the Director of Corporate Enforcement, to enter the premises and seize documents that may show crimes committed under section 20 of the Companies' Acts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4415915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4415915", "title": "Brown v. Mississippi", "text": "Brown v. Mississippi\n\nBrown v. Mississippi, 297 U.S. 278 (1936), was a United States Supreme Court case that ruled that a defendant's involuntary confession that is extracted by police violence cannot be entered as evidence and violates the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.\n\nRaymond Stuart, a white planter, was murdered in Kemper County, Mississippi on March 30, 1934. Arthur Ellington, Ed Brown, and Henry Shields, three black tenant farmers, were arrested for his murder. At the trial, the prosecution's principal evidence was the defendants' confessions to police officers. During the trial, however, prosecution witnesses freely admitted that the defendants confessed only after being subjected to brutal whippings by the officers. \n\nOne defendant had also been subjected to being strung up by his neck from a tree in addition to the whippings. The confessions were nevertheless admitted into evidence, and were the only evidence used in the subsequent one-day trial. The defendants were convicted by a jury and sentenced to be hanged. The convictions were affirmed by the Mississippi Supreme Court on appeal.\n\nIn a unanimous decision, the Court reversed the convictions of the defendants. The opinion was delivered by Chief Justice Hughes who wrote that \"the transcript reads more like pages torn from some medieval account than a record made within the confines of a modern civilization.\" It held that a defendant's confession that was extracted by police violence cannot be entered as evidence and violates the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.\n\nUpon remand from the United States Supreme Court, the three defendants pleaded nolo contendere to manslaughter rather than risk a retrial. They were however sentenced to six months, two and one-half years, and seven and one-half years in prison, respectively.\n\nThe prosecutor at the trial level, John Stennis, later served forty-two years as a United States senator. He ran for office in Mississippi thirteen times and never lost.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12740014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12740014", "title": "Common Public Attribution License", "text": "Common Public Attribution License\n\nThe Common Public Attribution License (\"CPAL\") is a free software license approved by the Open Source Initiative in 2007. Its purpose is to be a general license for software distributed over a network. It is based on the Mozilla Public License, but it adds an attribution term paraphrased below:\n\nThe CPAL also adds the following section discussing \"network use\" which triggers copyleft provisions when running CPAL licensed code on a network service and this way closing the so-called ASP loophole:\nThe Debian project found the license to be incompatible with its Free Software Guidelines (DFSG) because of its attribution requirement.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189270", "title": "Compassion &amp; Choices", "text": "Compassion &amp; Choices\n\nCompassion & Choices is a nonprofit organization in the United States working to improve patient rights and individual choice at the end of life, including access to medical aid in dying. Its primary function is advocating for and ensuring access to end-of-life options.\nWith over 65,000 supporters and campaigns in nine states, it is the largest organization of its kind in the United States.\n\nCompassion & Choices is the successor to the Hemlock Society, and Compassion In Dying Federation; the organizations merged in 2007. The organization maintains staff in New York, the District of Columbia, California, Washington State (they dismissed WA state staff in 2016; the local org is independent and unaffiliated) Oregon, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Montana, New Mexico, Colorado, Vermont and New Jersey.\n\nCompassion & Choices provides end-of-life consultation for dying patients and their families at no cost. Professional consultants and trained volunteers work by phone or in person to offer assistance in completing advance directives, make referrals to local services including hospice and illness-specific support groups, advice on adequate pain and symptom management, and information on safe, effective and legal methods for aid in dying.\n\nThe organization's work is highlighted in the documentary film \"How to Die in Oregon\" which won the 2011 Grand Jury Prize at the Sundance Film Festival.\n\nCompassion & Choices integrates medical aid in dying into healthcare by implementing and normalizing them into the standard of care after laws are passed in individual states.\n\nCompassion & Choices litigates patient cases related to ensuring adequate end-of-life care and choice. Through litigation, Compassion & Choices protects terminally ill patients' rights to receive pain and symptom management, to voluntarily stop life-sustaining treatments, to request and receive palliative sedation, and to choose aid in dying under state and federal constitutional protections.\n\nIn 1997, Vacco v. Quill legitimized palliative sedation as a recognized medical practice.\n\nIn 1997, Washington v. Glucksberg emphasized that it was up to states to legalize aid in dying.\n\nC&C represented 16 terminally ill patient-plaintiffs at the U.S. Supreme Court in \"Gonzales v. Oregon\", defeating the Bush administration's challenge to Oregon's Death with Dignity Act in January 2006.\n\nBaxter v. Montana authorized medical aid in dying in Montana.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24905042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24905042", "title": "Crypto-communism", "text": "Crypto-communism\n\nCrypto-communism is a secret support for, or admiration of communism. An individual or group keeps this support or admiration hidden to avoid political persecution or political suicide. Crypto-Bolshevism is a prominent form of crypto-communism, asserting secret Bolshevism.\n"}
{"id": "16147726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16147726", "title": "Diligence (Scots law)", "text": "Diligence (Scots law)\n\nDiligence in Scots Law is a process; an execution.\n\nThe term has several usages in legal proceedings involving creditors and debtors:\n\nThe definition was taken from the source.\nThe Debtors (Scotland) Act 1838 (1 & 2 Vict. c. 114) amended Scots law relating to Diligence Against the Person.\n\nPoinding\n"}
{"id": "7304072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7304072", "title": "Eco-communalism", "text": "Eco-communalism\n\nEco-communalism (shorthand for \"ecological communalism\") is an environmental philosophy based on ideals of simple living, self-sufficiency, sustainability, and local economies. Eco-communalists envision a future in which the economic system of capitalism is replaced with a global web of economically interdependent and interconnected small local communes. Decentralized government, a focus on agriculture, biodiversity, and green economics are all tenets of eco-communalism.\n\nEco-communalism finds its roots in a diverse set of ideologies. These include the \"pastoral reaction to industrialization of William Morris and the nineteenth-century social utopians (Thompson, 1993); the Small Is Beautiful twentieth century philosophy of E.F. Schumacher (1972); and the traditionalism of Gandhi (1993)\"\n\nThe term eco-communalism was first coined by the Global Scenario Group (GSG), which was convened in 1995 by Paul Raskin, president of the Tellus Institute. The GSG set out to describe and analyze scenarios for the future of the earth as it entered a Planetary Phase of Civilization. The GSG's scenario analysis resulted in a series of reports. Eco-communalism took shape in 2002 as one of six possible future scenarios put forth in the GSG's 99-page essay entitled \"Great Transition: The Promise and Lure of the Times Ahead.\" This founding document describes eco-communalism as a \"vision of a better life\" which turns to \"non-material dimensions of fulfillment – the quality of life, the quality of human solidarity and the quality of the earth\".\n\nThe eco-communalist vision is only part of GSG's scenario analysis in the Great Transition essay which is organized into three categories. The first, Conventional Worlds, sees capitalist values maintained and only market forces and incremental policy reform trying to curb environmental degradation. The second, Barbarization, is one in which environmental collapse leads to an overall societal collapse. The third, Great Transition, is a pathway that includes the \"social revolution of eco-communalism\" (October 2005 Monthly Review John Bellamy Foster) which finds humanity changing its relationship with the environment. Eco-communalists would be actors in a broader global citizens movement.\n\nEco-communalism has taken root all over the globe on different levels. Towns such as Auroville, Nimbin, and the Federation of Damanhur attempt to provide an environmentally low impact way of life. Larger groups such as the Findhorn Foundation provide education to help new communes form. In addition, all of these groups and more are collaborators in the Global Ecovillage Network; which strives to support eco-communalism worldwide.\n"}
{"id": "2943480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2943480", "title": "Fractional ownership", "text": "Fractional ownership\n\nFractional ownership is a method in which several unrelated parties can share in, and mitigate the risk of, ownership of a high-value tangible asset, usually a jet, yacht or piece of resort real estate. It can be done for strictly monetary reasons, but typically there is some amount of personal access involved. One of the main motivators for a fractional purchase is the ability to share the costs of maintaining an asset that will not be used full-time by one owner.\n\nEvery fractional endeavour requires some sort of management, to administer the rules and regulations (which are agreed upon before the fraction is purchased) and maintain the asset to the degree laid out in the ownership documents. Generally, management will oversee the daily operation of more than one property, although it is not necessary. A single fractional asset may be managed by a single entity.\nEach owner is guaranteed a prescribed amount of access to the asset, which typically can be used or offered to the public as rental or charter, the income is usually split between the management company and the fractional owner, unless the owner finds the renter himself.\nAdditionally, each owner pays a portion of the annual management fees and maintenance, relative to the percent of ownership.\n\nWhile Richard Santuilli is generally credited with launching the concept for business jets, individuals have been setting up LLCs to buy boats or planes or \"a little cabin in the woods\" for decades. Michael Aumock was instrumental in setting up fractional devices in the yachting and superyacht industry.\n\nIn business, fractional ownership is a percentage share of an expensive asset. Shares are sold to individual owners. Typically, a company manages the asset on behalf of the owners, who pay monthly/annual fees for the management plus variable (e.g., per-hour, per-day) use fees. For rapidly depreciating assets, the management company may sell the asset and distribute the proceeds back to the owners, who can then claim a capital loss and optionally purchase a fraction of a new asset.\n\nWhether fractional ownership provides a financial advantage over renting is an ongoing debate, and some countries and regions have tax laws that provide additional benefits for owners, such as capital-loss allowances, while others might penalize ownership over renting.\n\nFractional ownership offers an individual or company the option to purchase a share of an aircraft. Shares from as little as 1/16 of an aircraft, which offers approximately 50 hours of flight time per year, to 1/2 of an aircraft can be purchased, depending on the needs of the operator. The most common amounts purchased usually range from about 1/8 to 1/4 (approximately 200 flight hours per year) of an aircraft. Though the owner takes title of the portion of their investment, they are not assigned to a dedicated aircraft for usage. Instead, they are given access to a pool of similar aircraft, and therefore, theoretically, an owner may never actually fly on their titled jet.\n\nCo-owners (referred to as ‘owners’) of a fractional program's aircraft are required to pay a percentage of the aircraft’s purchase price that is proportionate to the number of hours they wish to fly per year, for the duration of their contract – typically 5 years. In addition to the price, there are fees charged for all occupied flight hours (that fluctuate with changes in fuel prices), as well as monthly fixed-management fees that cover maintenance and administration of the program. In return, the customer receives a predetermined number of hours in the aircraft of their choice, based on the owner’s needs and the amount they are willing to pay. Fractional owners are guaranteed that this aircraft, or another aircraft of the same model or comparable aircraft type, will be available 24 hours a day, 365 days per year, with as little as four hours notice. In addition, the management company provides all scheduling, flight planning, staffing, catering, maintenance, communications, and insurance services. A fractional owner simply picks up the phone, calls a dispatcher, requests a flight, and drives to the airport.\n\nThe term fractional ownership originally became popular for business jets. Richard Santulli of NetJets pioneered the concept of allowing businesses to purchase shares in a jet to reduce costs. With a fractional jet plan, members will typically fly in any jet available, not necessarily the one in which they own shares. The management company will reposition jets as necessary and provide flight crews. Companies with greater needs purchase larger shares to get access to more time.\n\nThe fractional ownership concept has since been extended to smaller aircraft and now has become common for single-engine piston aircraft like the Cirrus SR22, which are beyond the financial means of many private pilots. The same concepts apply, except that the management company may not provide flight crews nor reposition the aircraft.\n\nMany pilots get together to buy light aircraft in a privately bought and managed fractional ownership, this is often known as group flying.\n\nFractional ownership has played a significant role in revitalizing the general aviation manufacturing industry since the late 1990s, and most manufacturers actively support fractional ownership programs.\n\nFractional ownership simply means the division of any asset into portions or shares. If the “asset” is a property, the title or deed can be legally divided into shares. In certain instances this is done by creating a \"mezzanine structure\", i.e., creating a company which owns the property then allowing multiple owners or investors to own shares in the company. Those shares can then be purchased and owned by more than one individual. The reasons for a \"mezzanine structure\" can vary. Two common reasons are to allow transfer of shares without the need to reflect changes on the title or deed to the property, and for tax benefits.\n\nAnother type of fractional ownership, not part of a securitized business plan is Tenancy in Common, which is grounded in the real property laws of most, if not all states. The main difference is there is no right of survivorship to the sponsor or other owners if one or more of owners were to pass away. Where there are similarities with the equal sharing of operational expenses, rental income and access, the striking difference is free transferability of the owner's interest in the property without regard to the other owners in the property. \n\nShared ownership of the property and its deed will also entitle shareholders to certain usage rights, usually in the form of weeks. Conceptually, fractional ownership is \"not\" the same as timeshare. Fractional ownership affords much of the freedom and usage benefits offered in timeshare, however, the fundamental difference with fractional ownership is that the purchaser owns \"part of the title\" (as opposed to units of \"time\"). Therefore, if the property appreciates in value, then so do the shares. As with whole ownership, fractional owners can sell whenever they deem necessary or prudent, releasing the capital growth from their \"bricks & mortar\" investment.\n\nThe practice of joining together with family and friends to share ownership of vacation property has been around for many years. But the fractional property industry started in the U.S. in the Rocky Mountains ski resorts in the early 1990s. These first fractional developments recognized that people did not want to buy whole homes, which they would use only for a few weeks a year in the mountains. According to research firm Ragatz Associates, there were over 312 fractional developments in North America in 2017. The U.S. Mountain region has the majority of active fractional property available, with the U.S. Pacific region next. The prevalent leisure activity for owners of fractional property in the U.S. Mountain region is skiing. In 2018, the most common fractional size available for purchase in North America is a one-fourth ownership, giving owners three months of total annual visit usage.\n\nOutside the USA a non-commercial form of fractional ownership has been in existence for several decades. In this form, otherwise unconnected individuals (rather than family or friends) form private syndicates to purchase, for example, vacation property or boats. These syndicates operate as private member groups with small numbers on a non-profit basis, generally just sharing expenses and usage. These groups can involve assets ranging from modest apartments or condominium-type properties to multimillion-euro / dollar properties, and leverage their ability to make collective purchases of additional assets such as boats or vehicles as additional facilities while retaining control entirely within the membership of the group.\n\nThe popularity of the term \"fractional ownership\" has caused extensive rebranding in other industries where similar concepts, such as real estate timeshares, were already well established. The main distinction between timeshare and fractional ownership is that with a timeshare you buy the right to use a property, but with fractional ownership, you are buying real estate. You get a deeded piece of real estate, just not for the entire parcel.\n\nFractional ownership divides a property into more affordable segments for individuals and also matches an individual's ownership time to their actual usage time. A fractional share gives the owners certain privileges, such as a number of days or weeks when they can use the property. Occasionally, the property is sold after a predetermined time, distributing the relative proceeds back to the owners. A few private owner-groups have developed highly sophisticated usage allocation schemes and other features based on the principle of attempting to get as close as possible to the flexibility of individual ownership, and only compromising this to the minimum extent necessary to accommodate multiple owners. In such schemes, the basic agreement is between the members themselves, whereas in most commercial fractional ownership schemes, the owner's principal relationship is with the property developer and/or promoter of the scheme.\n\nPrivate residence clubs are the luxury, high end of the fractional property market. The research firm Ragatz Associates defines a private residence club as a fractional property that sells at a price of USD 1,000 per square foot or higher. Private residence clubs provide the services and amenities of five-star hotels, and some of the luxury hotel groups run their own clubs. Occasionally, membership in a private residence club grants to its member only the right to usage of the club properties and services, without ownership rights in the properties themselves. Note that a private residence club is different from a destination club, although the terms are sometimes used interchangeably.\n\nIn addition to luxury private residence clubs, single \"stand-alone\" vacation homes and condos can be converted to fractional ownership. This fractional home conversion process can be accomplished by any knowledgeable seller or through a fractional consulting company. The benefit of fractional home conversion includes the ability of the homeowner to keep a portion of the ownership for themselves, pay off debt and reduce expenses.\n\nA key aspect for any fractional owner is to understand their usage rights and the reservation plans. These vary from property to property. Some offer fixed occupancy periods in which an owner uses the same time each year. Some offer \"floating\" periods, in which the occupancy times rotate throughout the year, and some offer a mixture of these, with some time fixed and some floating.\n\nAnother variation in the business model is what are called \"destination resorts\". These are typically properties, whether hotel rooms, suites, or freestanding villas, located on property owned and managed by a hotel developer, and which provide amenities typically expected of a high-class hotel or resort. Some hotels are also developed as a condo-hotel, in which individual rooms are sold off to individual owners.\n\nIndividuals may now purchase fractional shares of high-end sports cars, including some of the world's most exclusive exotic car brands such as Bugatti, Maybach, Porsche, Lamborghini, Maserati, Ferrari, Aston Martin, and Koenigsegg. Such expensive automobiles, when owned by individuals, typically spend the majority of their time in storage, with high annual ownership costs. Fractional shares distributes these annual costs across several owners, who pay for and benefit from the asset.\n\nFractional ownership is also beginning to appear for luxury items such as small yachts and megayachts, jet aircraft (especially business jets) and high-end motor homes.\n\nFractional yacht / boat ownership provides marine enthusiasts with ownership of shares in yachts of all sizes and uses. Some programs sell actual equity in the watercraft and others sell \"membership,\" where the members' dues provide access to the boats, but no ownership. Fractional yacht companies sell shares/membership in small motor boats, sailboats, mid-range yachts all the way to the megayachts for day-use, multi-year contracts, or charter-like arrangements.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13217890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13217890", "title": "IMO number", "text": "IMO number\n\nThe International Maritime Organization (IMO) number is a unique reference for ships, registered ship owners and management companies. IMO numbers were introduced to improve maritime safety and security and to reduce maritime fraud. They consist of the three letters \"IMO\" followed by unique seven-digit numbers, assigned under the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS).\n\nIn 1987 the IMO adopted resolution A.600(15), aimed at the \"enhancement of maritime safety and pollution prevention and the prevention of maritime fraud\" by assigning to each ship a permanent identification number. The IMO number remains linked to the hull for its lifetime, regardless of changes of names, flags, or owners. The IMO adopted the existing unique 7-digit numbers applied to ships by Lloyd's Register since 1969, which were modified from 6-digit numbers introduced in 1963.\n\nSOLAS regulation XI/3, which was adopted in 1994 and came into force on 1 January 1996, made IMO numbers mandatory. It was applied to cargo vessels that are at least 300 gross tons (gt) and passenger vessels of at least 100 gt.\n\nIn the SOLAS Convention, \"cargo ships\" means \"ships which are not passenger ships\". The IMO scheme does not however apply to:\n\nIn December 2002, the Diplomatic Conference on Maritime Security adopted a number of measures aimed at enhancing security of ships and port facilities. This included a modification to SOLAS Regulation XI-1/3 to require ships' identification numbers to be permanently marked in a visible place either on the ship's hull or superstructure as well as internally and on the ship's certificates. Passenger ships should also carry the marking on a horizontal surface visible from the air.\n\nIn May 2005, IMO adopted a new SOLAS regulation XI-1/3-1 on the mandatory company and registered owner identification number scheme, with entry into force on 1 January 2009.\n\nThe regulation provides that every ship owner and management company shall have a unique identification number. Other amendments require these numbers to be added to the relevant certificates and documents in the International Safety Management Code (ISM) and the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code (ISPS). Like the IMO ship identification number, the company identification number is a seven-digit number with the prefix IMO. For example, for the ship \"Atlantic Star\" (), IMO 5304986 referred to the former ship manager Pullmantur Cruises Ship Management Ltd and IMO 5364264 to her former owner, Pullmantur Cruises Empress Ltd.\n\nIMO identification numbers for ships, companies and registered owners are assigned by IHS Markit (previously Lloyd's Register-Fairplay). For new vessels, the IMO number is assigned to a hull during construction, generally upon keel laying. Many vessels which fall outside the mandatory requirements of SOLAS have numbers allocated by Lloyd's Register or IHS Markit in the same numerical series, including fishing vessels and commercial yachts.\n\nAn IMO number is made of the three letters \"IMO\" followed by a seven-digit number. This consists of a six-digit sequential unique number followed by a check digit. The integrity of an IMO number can be verified using its check digit. This is done by multiplying each of the first six digits by a factor of \"2\" to \"7\" corresponding to their position from right to left. The rightmost digit of this sum is the check digit. For example, for IMO 9074729: (9×\"7\") + (0×\"6\") + (7×\"5\") + (4×\"4\") + (7×\"3\") + (2×\"2\") = 139.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46893463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46893463", "title": "Indian Residential Schools Settlement Agreement", "text": "Indian Residential Schools Settlement Agreement\n\nThe Indian Residential Schools Settlement Agreement (IRSSA) is an agreement between the Government of Canada and approximately 86,000 Native Canadians who at some point were enrolled as children in the Canadian Indian residential school system, a system which was in place between 1879 and 1996. The IRSSA recognized the damage inflicted by the residential schools and established a $2 billion compensation package for all former IRS students and, in particular, those who had been abused or otherwise harmed. The agreement, announced in 2006, was the largest class action settlement in Canadian history. As of December 2012 a total of $1.62 billion has been paid to 78,750 former students.\n\nIn November 1996 the Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples (RCAP) issued its final 4,000-page report with 440 recommendations. Indian residential schools were the topic of one chapter. In 1998 in response to the RCAP the Canadian federal government unveiled \"Gathering Strength: Canada's Aboriginal Action Plan\", a \"long-term, broad-based policy approach in response to the Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples which included the \"Statement of Reconciliation: Learning from the Past,\" in which the \"Government of Canada recognizes and apologizes to those who experienced physical and sexual abuse at Indian residential schools and acknowledges its role in the development and administration of residential schools.\"\n\nIn 2001, the federal Office of Indian Residential Schools Resolution Canada was created to manage and resolve the large number of abuse claims filed by former students against the federal government. In 2004, an Assembly of First Nations Report on Canada’s Dispute Resolution Plan to Compensate for Abuses in Indian Residential Schools led to discussions to develop a holistic, fair and lasting resolution of the legacy of Indian Residential Schools.\n\nOn 23 November 2005 the Canadian federal government announced the IRSSA compensation package. It represents the largest class-action lawsuit in Canadian history. On 11 June 2008, Prime Minister Harper \"apologized on behalf of the Government of Canada, and all Canadians, for the forcible removal of Aboriginal children from their homes and communities to attend Indian residential schools. In this historic Apology, the Prime Minister recognized that there is no room in Canada for the attitudes that created the residential school system to prevail.\"\n\nThe agreement was announced by the Canadian federal government on 8 May 2006 with implementation in September 2007. The five main components of the IRSSA are the Common Experience Payment (CEP), Independent Assessment Process (IAP), the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC), Commemoration, and Health and Healing Services.\n\nThe IRSSA offered former students blanket compensation through the Common Experience Payment (CEP) with an average lump-sum payment of $28,000. The CEP, a component of the Indian Residential Schools Settlement Agreement, totaling $1.9 billion, was \"part of an overall holistic and comprehensive response to the Indian residential school legacy.\" Payments were higher for more serious cases of abuse. The CEP recognized \"the experience of living at an Indian Residential School(s) and its impacts. All former students who resided at a recognized Indian Residential School(s) and were alive on May 30, 2005 were eligible for the CEP. This include[d] First Nations, Métis, and Inuit former students.\" This initial payment for each person who attended a residential school amounted to $10,000 per person plus $3,000 per year. The application deadline for CEP was 19 September 2011 with some exceptions made until September 19, 2012. By 31 December 2012, \"a total of 105,540 applications were received under the common experience payment. $1.62 billion was paid to \"78,750 recipients, representing 98% of the 80,000 estimated eligible former students.\"\n\nThe IRSSA allotted $960 million to the Independent Assessment Process (IAP), \"a settlement fund for claims of sexual abuses, serious physical abuse and other wrongful acts\" at IRS which \"provides money to those who experienced serious physical and/or sexual abuse at an Indian Residential School...The maximum payment is $275,000, but an additional $250,000 may be awarded for claims of actual income loss.\" By 31 December 2012, over $1.7 billion in total was issued through the IAP. around three times more applications were received than expected, and the IAP is forecast to continue hearings until around 2017. By 2011 there were already 29,000 claims, double the 12,500 originally estimated by the IRSSA and this number was expected to rise even more. Violent abuse was \"rampant, not isolated.\" According to Dan Ish, Indian Residential School Adjudication Secretariat chief adjudicator for the IAP, estimated in 2012 that IAP claims would be somewhere between two and three billion dollars more than anticipated.\n\nIRSSA allocated $60 million for the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) to document and preserve the experiences of survivors. The Commission was launched 2 June 2008. On 20 October 2008, Justice Harry LaForme, Commission chair resigned, claiming \"the commission was on the verge of paralysis and doomed to failure. He cited an \"incurable problem\" with the other two commissioners — Claudette Dumont-Smith and Jane Brewin Morley — who he said refused to accept his authority as chairman and were disrespectful.\" On 15 October 2009 the Indian Residential Schools Truth and Reconciliation Commission was relaunched by then-Governor General Michaëlle Jean with Justice Murray Sinclair, an Ojibway-Canadian judge, First Nations lawyer, as the chair. By August 2012, the federal government had released over 941,000 documents to the TRC related to residential schools.\n\nOn 31 March 1998 in response to the RCAP and as part of Gathering Strength—Canada's Aboriginal Action Plan, the federal government established the Aboriginal Healing Foundation, \"Aboriginal-managed, national, Ottawa-based, not-for-profit private corporation\", with a $350 million-dollar grant and an eleven-year mandate from March 1998 to March 2009. Its role was \"to encourage and support, through research and funding contributions, community-based Aboriginal directed healing initiatives which address the legacy of physical and sexual abuse suffered in Canada’s Indian Residential School System, including inter-generational impacts.\" In 2007 Aboriginal Healing Foundation (AHF) received $125 million from the IRSSA to extend the AHF's lifespan to 30 September 2014.\n\nIRSSA also supported the Resolution Health Support Worker (RHSW) Program.\n\nThe IRSSA allocated $20 million for the Commemoration Fund for national and community commemorative projects.\n\nCrawford Class Action was the court-appointed administrator. $100-million was allocated by IRSSA for the payment of plaintiffs’ legal fees.\n\nDan Ish, upon his retirement from his position as chief adjudicator of IAP, described challenges with private lawyers who allegedly illegally profited from IRSSA benefits. They investigated Winnipeg lawyer Howard Tennenhouse, Calgary lawyer David Blott and Vancouver lawyer Stephen Bronstein and numerous other lawyers. Ish \"personally reported Tennenhouse to the Law Society of Manitoba, who eventually disbarred the veteran lawyer and repaid clients nearly a million dollars. A Vancouver judge barred Blott and others he worked with from further IAP work after claimants complained of wrongly being charged loans, fees, penalties and interest-something forbidden under the IAP. And just last month, the IRSAS requested an investigation into Bronstein but settled for a \"review\" of his practice and alleged connection with a paroled murderer doing IAP intake work.\" In 2012 the Law Society of Manitoba disbarred Tennenhouse for life. He pleaded guilty to charges and agreed to pay back the \"$950,000 in extra fees\" he charged 55 former residential school students. In 2014 as the Law Society of Alberta moved to disbar Calgary lawyer, David Blott \"accused of misconduct in his handling of settlements awarded to survivors of residential school abuse\", Blott resigned. \"Blott’s Calgary law firm handled almost 4,600 residential school claims\" and the \"investigation into Blott’s action cost taxpayers $3.5 million.\" Ivon Johnny, a convicted killer, had his parole revoked in January 2013 after \"allegations he threatened and extorted...substantial sums of money from vulnerable and in some cases cognitively deficient [IRSSA] claimants. In February 2013 \"B.C. Supreme Court Justice Brenda Brown \"ordered Bronstein to be interviewed by a court monitor about his alleged dealings with Johnny.\"\n\nIndian residential schools were a network of \"residential\" (boarding) schools for Native Canadians (First Nations or \"Indians\"; Métis and Inuit). Funded by the Canadian government's Indian Affairs and Northern Development, and administered by Christian churches, predominantly the Roman Catholic Church in Canada (60%), but also the Anglican Church of Canada (30%), and the United Church of Canada (including its pre-1925 constituent church predecessors)(10%). The policy was to remove children from the influence of their families and culture and assimilate them into the dominant Canadian culture. Over the course of the system's existence, approximately 30% of native children, roughly some 150,000, were placed in residential schools nationally.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4486720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4486720", "title": "Joint Contracts Tribunal", "text": "Joint Contracts Tribunal\n\nThe Joint Contracts Tribunal, also known as the JCT, produces standard forms of contract for construction, guidance notes and other standard documentation for use in the construction industry. From its establishment in 1931, JCT has expanded the number of contributing organisations. Following recommendations in the 1994 Latham Report, the current operational structure comprises seven members who approve and authorise publications. In 1998 the JCT became a limited company.\n\nThe members were listed by the JCT in 2014 as:\n\nThe Joint Contracts Tribunal was established in the 1930s by the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) and the National Federation of Building Trades Employers (NFBTE), to consider future proposals for amending the Form of Contract which had been published in 1931. Its first chairman, to 1956, was Sydney Tatchell, followed by Sir Percy Thomas. The RIBA \"Guide to its Archive and History\" (1986) recorded that the tribunal had been established jointly in October 1932 by the councils of the RIBA and NFBTE to consider suggestions for the amendment of the 1931 Form of Contract, and that each of those two bodies appointed one of the two Joint Secretaries. The Secretary RIBA had acted as the RIBA Joint Secretary until the early 1960s (Macalister to 1942, Spragg to 1959), when this appointment was performed by the Practice Secretary and then by the Legal Adviser. The archived documents are listed in the Guide as the \"RIBA Joint Secretary's Papers, 1932-1944, 1952-1971\", including copies of minutes and reports and papers concerning revision of the Form of Contract 1955-1961.\n\nImportant new editions of the form were published in 1939, 1963 and 1980, and after the JCT had become a limited company further revised editions were published in 1998, 2005 and 2011. JCT Contracts are currently published by Sweet and Maxwell Thomson Reuters.\n\nIn 2012 the publication was announced of \"JCT Contracts discovery: the education and learning module from the Joint Contracts Tribunal\". This was described as an education and learning module for education and training providers, in-house training teams and independent tutors, providing materials for a comprehensive understanding of JCT contracts and JCT contractual procedures and looking at the roles of contractors, employers, sub-contractors and contract administrators and how JCT provisions deal with matters such as payment, control of the works and control of time.\n\nSuite of Standard Forms means a group of all the mutually consistent documents necessary to operate a particular method of procurement and produced to enable them to be used together, including the following where applicable:\n\n\nJCT publish guidance on which contract to select.\n\nJCT substantially revises and rewrites the family of forms every decade. The most recent suite, replacing the 1998 version, is the 2005 suite, as is commonly referred to as JCT 05. There are now, however, 2009 amendments published. The 2011 versions replaced 2009 amendments for all contracts signed after October 1, 2011. They are considered to be the most popular construction contracts in use in the UK.\n\n\nIn 2007 JCT published the Constructing Excellence Contract (JCT/CE), a contract designed to support collaborative working, as advocated by the Latham Report, and can trace its roots back to the \"collaborative contract\" published in 2003 by BE, a joint venture between the Reading Construction Forum and the Design and Build Foundation (and now part of Constructing Excellence).\n\nTraditional JCT contracts were seen as too detailed and difficult to use in smaller domestic projects so JCT launched a consumer friendly range of contracts called the \"Building Contract for the Home Owner\".\n\n\nThe JCT contracts avoid up-front payments from payers to payees. Instead, the payee invoices the payer once work has been certified as completed by an independent third party, the contract administrator (often an architect or surveyor). Often interim certificates are issued where itemised components of the work have been completed, or a verifiable percentage is complete. In the 2009 amendments, the payer or payee can issue the certificate if the contractor administrator fails to do so.\n\nThe JCT encourages retention of an agreed percentage of the contract sum until practical completion and then a percentage for a period after final completion. This avoids payment in advance for such things as minor defects or snagging which need to addressed at the end of the project or come to light after the project is complete. So the invoice at each point is a percentage of the value of the work certified complete. The payer can deduct an amount; however, under the 2009 amendments, the method for calculating the new amount must be stated.\n\nThe JCT encourages up-front agreement of liquidated and ascertained damages (LAD) as an estimate of the payer's weekly losses if the payee fails to reach practical completion by the contractual completion Date. If delays are for reasons beyond the contractor's control, the contractor can request an extension of time: if the contract administrator allows this, it in effect extends the period before which the contractor is liable to pay the LAD.\n\nThe JCT introduced the concept of determination, whereby the contract can be terminated for suspension of works, failure to proceed regularly and diligently, failure to remove defective works, failure to execute works in accordance with the contract, or bankruptcy of the contractor. If one party has ceased to perform the contract (e.g. the contractor has gone past the contractual completion date and has no plan to complete the contract), determination enables the other party to end their obligations (e.g. to pay the contractor to finish the project). This is in addition to the common law remedy of repudiation.\n\nReference is made to adjudication as a quick way of resolving disputes which the parties cannot resolve between them. Arbitration or litigation, depending on the preferences of the parties, is also available for the settlement of disputes, but these are never appeals against the decision of an adjudicator; they are the consideration of the dispute or difference as if no decision had been made by an adjudicator. If arbitration is chosen, then the reference is conducted under JCT the amended version of the Construction Industry Model Arbitration Rules published by the Society of Construction Arbitrators.\n\nLawbuild has proposed a number of amendments to the JCT contract to protect the client further, with the top four being: to ensure the contractor posts a 10% bond to cover the costs of finding a replacement contractor if the contractor goes into liquidation, to ensure the contractor obtains building regulations certificates before practical completion, to ensure the contractor must accept design changes, and to ensure the employer can control the identities of the contractor's designers.\n\nOne of the most common disputes around building contracts is with regard to the interpretation of failure to proceed regularly and diligently, and whether the contractor is able to make a claim for loss of profits after determination. In contrast in the US, building contracts can normally be terminated for convenience of the client, only paying for the work already done.\n\nThe JCT makes no distinction between work completed by subcontractors and work completed by the contractor. So the client can end up paying the contractor for work certified and yet the contractor may not pay the subcontractor, for example through insolvency. It may then be hard to work with that subcontractor to complete the work. In contrast in some US states, monies due to subcontractors must be held in trust by the contractor.\n\nICE Conditions, New Engineering Contract, FIDIC, GC/Works/I, Model Form, and IChemE Form are alternative formats for building contracts.\n\nThe Joint Contracts Tribunal in 1989 commissioned a report examining the legal distribution of liability for defective products in the construction industry. Published in 1993 as a book with the title \"Product liability in the construction industry\" (Palmer and McKendrick), it included an account of the tribunal's \"Origin and growth\" and a list of the seven chairman from 1931 to 1993, including Sydney Tatchell (1931-1956) and Sir Percy Thomas (1956-1960).\n\nIt listed the constituent bodies of the tribunal at that time as the Royal Institute of British Architects, the Building Employers Confederation (formerly NFBTE, later Construction Confederation), the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, the Association of Consulting Engineers, the British Property Federation, and the Scottish Building Contract Committee, together with two organisations of subcontractors – the Confederation of Associations of Specialist Engineering Contractors and the Federation of Specialists and Sub-Contractors (later superseded by the National Specialist Contractors Council and the Specialist Engineering Contractors) – and three local authority associations - of county councils, of metropolitan authorities and of district councils.\n\nThe JCT Povey Lecture is an annual event at which an eminent person is invited to speak on significant matters that are relevant to the construction and property industry. The purpose of the lecture is to encourage ways of continuing to improve the quality and value of construction output.\n\nThe Povey Lecture was inaugurated in 2003 to honour Philip John Povey, who had served the JCT for some fifty years. A barrister by profession, from 1951 Povey was a legal adviser to the NFBTE (later the Construction Confederation) and at the same time began to assist the Joint Secretaries of the JCT, later succeeding Howard Close as NFBTE Joint Secretary before being appointed the first Secretary-General of the restructured Joint Contracts Tribunal Limited in 1998, retiring from JCT at the end of 1999. He died suddenly in 2001.\n\nSpeakers and their papers have been:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3290513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3290513", "title": "Lanterman Developmental Disabilities Act", "text": "Lanterman Developmental Disabilities Act\n\nThe Lanterman Developmental Disabilities Act (AB 846), also known as the Lanterman Act, is a California law, initially proposed by Assembly member Frank D. Lanterman in 1973 and passed in 1977, that gives people with developmental disabilities the right to services and supports that enable them to live a more independent and normal life. The legislation significantly expanded upon its landmark predecessor, the Lanterman Mental Retardation Services Act (AB 225), initially proposed in 1969. The original act extended the state's existing regional center network of services for the developmentally disabled, while mandating provision of services and supports that meet both the needs and the choices of each individual. \n\nThe Lanterman Act declares that persons with developmental disabilities have the same legal rights and responsibilities guaranteed all other persons by federal and state constitutions and laws, and charges the regional center with advocacy for, and protection of, these rights.\n\nIn addition to persons with intellectual disability, the regional centers are now mandated to serve persons with cerebral palsy, epilepsy, autism, conditions similar to intellectual disability, or conditions that require treatment similar to the treatment required for individuals with intellectual disability. To be eligible for services under the Lanterman Act a Person must also have a \"substantial disability.\"\n\nIn 1976, the Lanterman Act was amended to establish the right to treatment and habilitation services for persons with developmental disabilities.\n\nThe Lanterman Act was amended in 1998, which called for an advocacy coordinator to be employed at each of the 21 regional centers of California, therefore, making it become a law that those employed through the regional center, would be prohibited from serving on a regional center board of directors, in order to avoid a conflict of interest.\n\nIn 2003 the definition of \"substantial disability\" was prospectively amended to require the existence of significant functional limitations in \"three or more of [..] areas of major life activity..\". Previously, to have a \"substantial disability\" only required the existence of a significant functional limitation in one of the seven areas of major life activity.\n\nThe Lanterman Act protects the rights of people with developmental disabilities by mandating rights including:\n\nSection 4501: \"The State of California accepts a responsibility for persons with developmental disabilities and an obligation to them which it must discharge. Affecting hundreds of thousands of children and adults directly, and having an important impact on the lives of their families, neighbors and whole communities, developmental disabilities present social, medical, economic and legal problems of extreme importance.\"\n\nSection 4620: \"In order for the state to carry out many of its responsibilities as established in this division, the state shall contract with appropriate agencies to provide fixed points of contact in the community for persons with developmental disabilities and their families, to the end that such persons may have access to the facilities and services best suited to them throughout their lifetime. It is the intent of this division that the network of regional centers for persons with developmental disabilities and their families be accessible to every family in need of regional center services. The Legislature finds that the services provided to individuals and their families by regional centers is of such a special and unique nature that is cannot be satisfactorily provided by state agencies. Therefore, private nonprofit community agencies shall be utilized by the state for the purpose of operating regional centers.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41958014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41958014", "title": "Laser lamp", "text": "Laser lamp\n\nA laser lamp is a light bulb that uses mirrors to direct a laser on to a phosphor that then emits a light. Laser lamps use half as much power as LED lamps. They were first developed by Audi for use as headlights in Le Mans.\n\nProduction automobiles:\n"}
{"id": "1347275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1347275", "title": "Legislative veto in the United States", "text": "Legislative veto in the United States\n\nThe legislative veto was a feature of dozens of statutes enacted by the United States federal government between approximately 1930 and 1980, until held unconstitutional by the U.S. Supreme Court in 1983.\n\nIt has also been widely used by state governments.\n\nThe legislative veto was first developed in context of the delegation to the president to reorganize governmental agencies and was first authorized by the Legislative Appropriations Act in 1932. It was furthered by the necessities of providing for national security and foreign affairs immediately prior to and during World War II.\n\nThe legislative veto provision found in federal legislation took several forms. Some laws established a veto procedure that required a simple resolution passed by a majority vote of one chamber of Congress. Other laws required a concurrent resolution passed by both the House and the Senate. Some statutes made the veto process more difficult by requiring not just a majority vote of one or both houses, but a majority of the membership of the legislative body, present or not. Some designated neither the House nor the Senate, but authorized one or more Congressional committees to exercise the veto on behalf of Congress.\n\nThe proliferation of legislative veto provisions in legislation raised a series of constitutional questions. Congress until relatively recently had applied the veto provisions to some action taken by the President or another executive officer—such as a reorganization of an agency, the lowering or raising of tariff rates, the disposal of federal property—then began expanding the device to give itself a veto over regulations issued by executive branch agencies, and proposals were made to give Congress a veto over all regulations issued by executive branch independent agencies.\n\nIn \"Immigration and Naturalization Service v. Chadha\", 462 U.S. 919 (1983), the Supreme Court held a legislative veto on the part of one chamber of the legislature unconstitutional as violating both the principle of bicameralism embodied in Article I, Section 1 and Section 7, and the presentment provisions of Clauses 2 and 3 of Section 7. The Court's analysis of the presentment issue made clear, that a provision for a two-chamber veto, though complying with bicameralism, and a provision for veto by a Congressional committee suffer the same constitutional infirmity. In the words of dissenting Justice White, the Court in \"Chadha\" \"sound[ed] the death knell for nearly 200 other statutory provisions in which Congress has reserved a 'legislative veto.'\"\n\nDelegates to the Constitutional Convention of 1787 that drafted the U.S. Constitution considered and rejected proposals for a \"legislative veto\" designed to reconcile the states to the federal union. Edmund Randolph proposed that: \"The National Legislature ought to be impowered [sic] . . . to negative all laws passed by the several States contravening in the opinion of the National Legislature the articles of Union.\" The provision became part of Alexander Hamilton's proposal for a new government based on national consolidation, all but eliminating state sovereignty.\n\nAs of 1975, 10 states' constitutions allowed the governor to reorganize state government departments subject to a legislative veto: Alaska, California, Illinois, Kansas, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Missouri, New Jersey, and Vermont. Three states had statutes authorizing this procedure: Kentucky, Pennsylvania, and South Carolina. In the case of Pennsylvania, however, the State Supreme Court has invalidated the legislative veto.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5892465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5892465", "title": "List of law enforcement agencies in Canada", "text": "List of law enforcement agencies in Canada\n\nThis is a list of law enforcement agencies in Canada.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGNWT DOT Highway Patrol\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn various television and film media, producers may decide to utilise fictitious law enforcement agencies for the purpose of artistic license or copyright reasons.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50135454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50135454", "title": "Los Angeles County Counsel", "text": "Los Angeles County Counsel\n\nThe Los Angeles County Counsel is a Los Angeles county governmental agency that acts as legal advocates and advisers to the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors, and other governmental agencies.\n\nThe Los Angeles County Counsel was established in 1913 pursuant to the Los Angeles County Charter and the California Constitution.\n\nThe County Counsel department is headed by the Los Angeles County Counsel, an appointed county officer tasked to provide legal advice and representation to the LA County Board of Supervisors, along with the county officers, departments and other public agencies in the county. \n"}
{"id": "594699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=594699", "title": "Lyman Duff", "text": "Lyman Duff\n\nSir Lyman Poore Duff, (7 January 1865 – 26 April 1955) was the eighth Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Canada. He was the longest serving justice of the Supreme Court of Canada.\n\nBorn in Meaford, Canada West (now Ontario) to a Congregationalist minister, Duff received a Bachelor of Arts in mathematics and metaphysics from the University of Toronto in 1887. After graduation, he taught at Barrie Collegiate Institute while studying for the bar. Duff later took courses at Osgoode Hall Law School and was called to the Ontario Bar in 1893.\n\nDuff practiced as a lawyer in Fergus, Ontario after being called to the bar. In 1895, Duff moved to Victoria, British Columbia and continued his career there. In 1895, he was made a Queen's Counsel. In 1903, he took part, as junior counsel for Canada, in the Alaska Boundary arbitration.\nIn 1923 Mount Duff (Yakutat), also known as \"Boundary Peak 174\" was named after him.\n\nIn 1904, he was appointed a puisne judge of the Supreme Court of British Columbia. In 1906 was appointed a justice of the Supreme Court of Canada. On January 14, 1914, he was appointed to Her Majesty's Most Honourable Privy Council. Duff was the first and only Puisne Justice of the Supreme Court of Canada to be appointed to the Imperial Privy Council. In 1924 he was elected honorary bencher of Gray's Inn, at the recommendation of Lord Birkenhead.\n\nIn 1931, he served as Administrator of the Government of Canada between the departure of Lord Bessborough for England and the arrival of Lord Tweedsmuir. Duff took on the position, as the Chief Justice was unavailable. As Administrator, Duff opened Parliament and read the Speech from the Throne on 12 March 1931, becoming the first Canadian-born person to do so.\n\nIn 1933, Duff was appointed Chief Justice of Canada, succeeding to Chief Justice Anglin. He was made a Knight Grand Cross of the Order of St. Michael and St. George the following year as a result of Prime Minister Richard Bennett's temporary suspension of the Nickle Resolution.\n\nWhen Governor General Lord Tweedsmuir died in office on February 11, 1940, Chief Justice Duff became the Administrator of the Government. He held the office for nearly four months, until King George VI appointed Alexander Cambridge, 1st Earl of Athlone as Governor General on June 21, 1940. Duff was the first Canadian to hold the position, even in the interim. A Canadian-born Governor General was not appointed until Vincent Massey in 1952.\n\nDuff also heard more than eighty appeals on the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, mostly Canadian appeals; however, he never heard Privy Council appeals from the Supreme Court of Canada while he served on the latter. The last Privy Council appeal heard by Duff was the 1946 Reference Re Persons of Japanese Race.\n\nIn 1942, Duff served as the sole member of a Royal Commission constituted to examine the Liberal government's conduct in relation to the defence of Hong Kong. The resulting report, which completely exonerated the government, proved to be controversial, and was seen by many as a whitewash.\n\nUpon reaching the mandatory retirement age for judges in 1939, his term of office was extended by three years by special Act of Parliament; in 1943, his term of office was extended for another year by Parliament. He retired as Chief Justice in 1944.\n\nDuff employed a conservative form of statutory interpretation. In a 1935 Supreme Court judgment, he detailed how judges should interpret statutes:\n\nDuff has been called a \"master of trenchant and incisive English,\" who \"wrote his opinions in a style which bears comparison with Holmes or Birkenhead.\" A former assistant of Duff, Kenneth Campbell, argued that Duff was \"frequently ranked as the equal of Justices Holmes and Brandeis of the United States Supreme Court,\" and Gerald Le Dain asserted that Duff \"is generally considered to have been one of Canada's greatest judges.\" Other writers have taken a less favourable view, instead arguing that Duff's reputation is largely unearned; his biographer concluded that he was not an original thinker, but essentially a \"talent student and exponent of the law rather than a creator of it.\"\n\nMore recent commentary has focused on Duff's legal formalism and its effect on Canadian federalism. Bora Laskin attacked Duff's decisions, arguing that Duff used circular reasoning and hid his policy-laden decisions behind the doctrine of \"stare decisis\". As well, Lionel Schipper noted that, in reviewing Duff's judgments, it was:\n\n"}
{"id": "32047869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32047869", "title": "MV Finch", "text": "MV Finch\n\nThe MV \"Finch\", also known as the \"Spirit of Rachel Corrie\", was a blockade runner staffed by anti-Israel activists from Malaysia, India, Ireland, and Canada attempting to deliver supplies to Gaza in May 2011 ahead of the Freedom Flotilla Two mission in late June.\n\nThe ship's mission began on May 11, leaving from Greece, and was to deliver construction materials necessary to restore the sewage system. The ship broke the blockade and was within 400 metres of the Gaza shore before it was attacked with gunfire by the Israeli Navy. The Egyptian interim government refused the boat access to dock in El-Arish, leaving it stranded off the coast. The ship's members returned home to Malaysia in early June.\n\nIt was sponsored by the Perdana Global Peace Foundation, founded by former Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad.\n\nThe Israeli Navy has threatened the follow-up mission of Freedom Flotilla Two, scheduled to have a fleet of 15 ships and boats along with 1500 activists. Israel also threatened Inmarsat if they provide satellite services to the group. U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon has called for it to be blocked. \n"}
{"id": "57894275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57894275", "title": "Ministry of Justice and Courts Administration (Samoa)", "text": "Ministry of Justice and Courts Administration (Samoa)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice and Courts Administration of Samoa has several roles and responsibilities such as the following:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33260719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33260719", "title": "Misuse of private information", "text": "Misuse of private information\n\nMisuse of private information is a new common law tort that English courts recognised in \"Campbell v MGN Ltd\". Arising as a branch of the law relating to breach of confidence, it has been reinforced by Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, supplemented by s. 6 of the Human Rights Act 1998, which obliges public institutions (including the courts) not to act inconsistently with Convention rights.\n\n\"Campbell\" was the watershed moment where the tort of \"misuse of private information\" became distinguished in scope from that relating to breach of confidence, as the former does not require \"an initial confidential relationship.\" In addition, actions for misuse of private information can readily attract tortious damages, while those for breach of confidence may receive damages only as an equitable remedy within the discretion of the presiding judge.\n\nWhile it will be obvious what may constitute public (as opposed to private) information in most cases, there will be times where it will need to be assessed as to whether disclosure of information would give substantial offence to an ordinary individual, as noted in Australia by Gleeson CJ in 2001:\n\nAs originally recognized in \"Campbell\", a cause of action was restricted to disclosures of information or activities in which the plaintiff had a reasonable expectation of privacy. It has been subsequently expanded to include bare intrusions into privacy, such as where certain photographs are taken in a public place.\n\nFor example, an injunction against the \"Wolverhampton Express and Star\" was obtained in 2005 by an owner of several homes for troubled children to restrain it from disclosing plans for further homes, even though information was publicly available from searches of HM Land Registry records and unredacted minutes of local authority proceedings. In his judgment, Tugendhat J explained why, in this case, rights under Article 8 overrode competing obligations under Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights relating to freedom of expression:\n\nIn addition to the Australian case law drawn upon by \"Campbell\", there has been other jurisprudence arising in New Zealand and Canada. While the House of Lords followed the model previously adopted by the High Court of Australia, the other two jurisdictions based their approach on the US \"Restatement of Torts (Second)\". It has been noted in Canada that the more principled approach adopted by the English courts post-\"Campbell\" may be a better one to follow.\n\n"}
{"id": "13697318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13697318", "title": "Mitigating factor", "text": "Mitigating factor\n\nIn criminal law, a mitigating factor, also known as extenuating circumstances, is any information or evidence presented to the court regarding the defendant or the circumstances of the crime that might result in reduced charges or a lesser sentence. Unlike a legal defense, it cannot lead to the acquittal of the defendant. The opposite of a mitigating factor is an aggravating factor.\n\nThe Sentencing Council of England and Wales lists the following as possible mitigating factors:\nSelf-defense is a legal defense rather than a mitigating factor, as an act done in justified self-defense is not deemed to be a crime. If the offender was provoked but cannot be considered to have acted in self-defense, then the provocation can be used as a mitigating factor but not as a legal defense.\n\nAccording to English and Welsh procedure, the jury has no power to determine the punishment to be awarded for an offense. The sentence, with certain exceptions in capital cases, is within the sole discretion of the judge, subject to the statutory prescriptions as to the kind and maximum of punishment. It is common practice for juries to add to their verdict, guilty or not guilty, a rider recommending the accused to mercy on the ground of grave provocation received, or other circumstances which in their view should mitigate the penalty.\n\nAccording to the Indian procedure the provision of Section 235(2) of Criminal Procedure Code calls upon the Court that the convicted accused must be given an opportunity of being heard on the question of sentence. This provides the accused an opportunity to place his antecedents, social and economic background and mitigating and extenuating circumstances before the court.\n\nBesides the statutory provisions, the Constitution of India also empowers the President and the Governor of the State to grant pardon to the condemned offenders in appropriate cases. These powers are, however, co-extensive with the legislative powers. The power to cut short a sentence by an act of executive in India and elsewhere. It is significant to note that the controversy raised in this regard in Nanavati's case has been settled by the Supreme Court once for all in the case of SARAT CHANDRA V/S. KHAGENDRA NATH which affirmed the principle that sentencing power of judiciary and executive are readily distinguishable.\n\nQuite independently of any recommendation by the jury, the judge is entitled to take into account matters proved during the trial, or laid before him/her after verdict, as a guide to determining the quantum of punishment.\n\nUnder French law (\"Code d'instruction criminelle\", art. 345), it is the sole right and the duty of a jury in a criminal case to pronounce whether or not the perpetration of the offense was attended by extenuating circumstances (\"circonstances atténuantes\"). They are not bound to say anything about the matter, but the whole or the majority may qualify the verdict by finding extenuation, and if they do, the powers of the court to impose the maximum punishment are taken away and the sentence to be pronounced is reduced in accordance with the scale laid down in art. 463 of the Code penal. The most important result of this rule in earlier times was to enable a jury to prevent the infliction of capital punishment for murder (now abolished).\n\nIn the U.S., most mitigating factors are presented in ways that are best described by clinical evaluations of the defendant and the circumstances, thus involving psychological or psychiatric analysis in the presentation to the court. Approximately one half of U.S. states allow evidence that the defendant was under extreme mental or emotional distress as a mitigating factor, if it is accompanied by an evaluation that the defendant's ability to appreciate the criminal aspect of his offense (\"mens rea\"), or his ability to control his behavior to meet the requirements of the law, was impaired.\n\nThere is empirical evidence that expert testimony on future dangerousness has less effect on jury decisions than does expert testimony on the defendant's mental functioning. However, there is no evidence so far that expert testimony does influence the jury on sentencing outcomes in death penalty cases.\n\nIn the United States, the issue of mitigating factors is most important in death penalty cases. In a series of decisions since 1972, the United States Supreme Court has attempted to make the sentence of death in the United States less arbitrary by emphasizing that the judge or jury must be given the opportunity to consider all mitigating evidence before determining the sentence. Thus the Court has stressed that because of the constitutional requirement of the fundamental respect for human dignity set out by the Eighth Amendment to the United States Constitution, information must be provided on the character and previous history of the defendant, as well as the circumstances surrounding the particular offense.\n\nThe Supreme Court in \"Penry v. Lynaugh\", and subsequently the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals in \"Bigby v. Dretke\", remanded cases in which the jury instructions in death penalty cases did not ask the jury to consider as mitigating factors the defendant's mental health, saying that the jury be instructed to consider mitigating factors when answering unrelated questions. The Supreme Court's rulings have broadened the definition of mitigating evidence in the United States and systematically removed the procedural barriers to jury consideration and weight of that evidence.\n\nThe effect of these decisions is to broaden the definition of mitigating factors related to mental illness within the U.S. justice system, and to be more consistent with standard psychiatric and psychological findings that correlate specific behaviors to identifiable mental disorders. As a result of these decisions, even in the absence of a direct connection between the illness and the illegal action (as is required in the guilt phase of the insanity defense), the court acknowledges that the effects of a severe mental illness have pervasive effect on a person's behavior and can therefore be a relevant consideration in death penalty considerations. If all relevant mitigating factors are not considered in a death penalty case, the punishment can be considered \"cruel and unusual\", the Supreme Court ruled in \"Tennard v. Dretke\", a case in which the prosecution sought to exclude evidence of a low IQ in the penalty phase of the trial. There is also an ongoing tendency of the Supreme Court to seek to include evidence of a defendant's potential for rehabilitation and a law-abiding future.\n\nHowever, a contrary opinion was rendered in \"People v. Smith\" where the Supreme Court of California upheld the prosecution's use of evidence of the defendant's mental illness presented by a psychologist, Dr. Chris Hatcher, who presented \"profile evidence\" as an \"aggravating factor\" in the sentencing phase of a capital crime (in this case the murder of a child) after the defendant pleaded guilty. This opinion was rendered, even though California has a clear statutory bar to this application. The defendant had argued that this use of psychological evidence violated a California statute prohibiting the use of serious mental illness as an aggravating factor. However, the court ruled that the psychologist's diagnosis, \"sadistic pedophilia\", obtained by profiling and not through any contact with the defendant, assisted the jury in understanding the motivation and circumstances of the crime and therefore aided in the proper sentencing of the defendant.\n\nIn addition to sexual disorders, psychopathy is sometimes used directly and indirectly (to negate expressions of remorse) as aggravation, including in capital cases (this is not to say that it is not sometimes regarded contrarily as mitigation). It remains controversial whether a psychiatric test should be such a determinant.\n\nThe Supreme Court held in \"Lockett v. Ohio\" that a defendant facing the death penalty is entitled to present any aspect of character or record, and any circumstance of the offense that might serve as a basis for a sentence less than death. The court may limit evidence not pertaining to these issues as \"irrelevant\". Although it has been argued that the defendant should be able to offer evidence questioning the morality of the death penalty or descriptions of the execution process, no court has allowed such testimony.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17129110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17129110", "title": "National Library of Malaysia", "text": "National Library of Malaysia\n\nThe National Library of Malaysia (Malay: \"Perpustakaan Negara Malaysia\") (PNM) is a library establish under the National Library Act 1972 in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.\n\nThe National Library is responsible for providing a collection of knowledge at national level for the present and future generations. In its effort to strengthen the library's collection, the National Library continues to play an active role in its acquisition of library materials through enforcement of the Deposit of Library Material Act 1986, acquisition, gift and exchange.\n\nThe pride of the National Library's collection is the Malaysiana Collection. It comprises library materials published in Malaysia and overseas whose whole or larger part of the content is related to the publications date or the language used. Another national intellectual heritage is the Malay Manuscripts and one of her manuscript the Hikayat Hang Tuah has been acknowledged by UNESCO in the Memory of the World Register. It is a MS ISO 9001:2008 certified library.\n\nThe main function of the National Library of Malaysia is divided into three (3) main activity that is Management Activity,Library Development Activity and Information Services Activity. Each Activities supported by sub-activity or division to achieve its goals and objectives of the National Library of Malaysia.\n\n(a) Management Activity\n(b) Library Development Activity\n(c) Library Services Activity\n\nThe National Library total collection is 4.78 million units of which 4.52 million are printed materials, 98,406 non-printed materials, 4,974 Malay Manuscript and 158,316 digital materials. NLM's library catalogue can be accessed online via http://opac.pnm.gov.my .\n\nThe major role of a National Library is to preserve and expand the use of published collection from within a respective country as well as collection published in other countries that relates to it. As the National Library for Malaysia, this institution is the central repository for Malaysia's historical memory and culture as well as a library that stores, documentation and conserve intellectual achievement that has been translated into print and non-print form. The Malaysiana collection is a collection of national heritage and the Malaysian race.\n\nThe National Library collection consists the following:\n\n\nMalay Manuscript is defined as a handwritten document in the Malay language in the Jawi script which surfaced in the beginning of the fourteenth century and ended in early twentieth century. It is an invaluable documentary heritage of the past which should be saved, stored and preserved. Since the early days when the Malays first learned how to write and particularly during the period when Islam penetrated into the Malay world, thousands of Malay manuscripts were produced covering a wide range of subjects spanning from literature encompassing prose and poem, history, religious Islamic teachings, law, medicine, beliefs and premonitions to court customs and administration reflecting the rich cultural heritage and high intellectual attainment of the Malays.\n\nMalay Manuscript Reference Service is located at the Centre of Malay Manuscript, 11th floor of Menara PNM, National Library of Malaysia. They serve the best quality of manuscript to the scholars for doing the research and referral with the friendly and convenience atmosphere. Basically, the referral towards Malay Manuscripts collection more focus on the original one and microfilm copies with the permission and guidance by the reader advisory staff. Apart from the Malay manuscripts collection, NLM also provide the manuscripts in microfilms form from the other institution including in the country and overseas. Any photocopies from microfilm are provided with a charge.\n\nRare collection includes materials issued from within and outside the country published before 1900 and / or materials that have been printed out and is no longer available on the market. This collection covers a variety of subjects such as history, language, literature, social sciences, economics, religion, etc. It contains a source of knowledge in the form of books, pamphlets and photographs which is rare, valuable and scarce. Rare Collection is located in\n\nThe Ephemeral collection was started in 1995 and is located in the Special Collection Room on Level 8, Menara PNM. It consists of publications from various departments and ministries, including postcards, brochures, program books, posters, calendars, first day stamps and envelopes.\n\nThe Private Collection was started in 1994, containing information on historical figures. This collection is a compilation of individual works or private collections of notable figures covering various subjects such as arts and literature, history, architecture, religion, culture and others. Private collection acquired by the National Library of Malaysia is used for conservation and reference. The field items materials are collected according to favorites, interests or areas of the collection owner. Private collection that available at the National Library of Malaysia are books, journals, articles, manuscripts, documents, pamphlets, genealogy, photos,lletters, newspaper clippings, files, drawings, charts, brochures, etc. All of this collections can be referred at Level 10, Menara PNM. The collections were obtained from well-known figures including John Bastin, A. Halim Nasir, Abdul Rahman Al-Ahmadi, Che Ismail Che Daud, Pak Sako, Aziz Jahpin, Cerita Cina Peranakan, Abdul Karim Abdullah, Mohd Idris Kamaruddin, Naharuddin Haji Ali and A. Samad Said.\n\nThis is a resource collection of non-printed materials in various subject fields and formats such as audio cassettes, audio disc, video cassette, video disc, digital video disc, data compact disc (CD-ROM) and kits that are published in Malaysia and overseas. This collection is available at the Digital Services Section, Central Block on Level 4 of PNM Building (Anjung Bestari).\n\nASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) Collection consists of a collection of countries in Southeast Asia, which are the members of ASEAN including Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, Thailand, Philippines, Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar, Brunei Darussalam and Vietnam. This collection covers various fields and things of ASEAN country such as social, cultural, economic, political and national heritage building. This collection is located at the Centre Block on Level 4 of National Library of Malaysia Building.\n\nMaterials in this collection consist of books, serial publications and media resources. This collection covers materials published by Harvard University Press, Harvard Business School and Harvard Business Publishing. This Harvard Collection is located on Level 4 of the PNM Building.\n\nNational Library of Malaysia is the depository centre for United Nation publications since 1976. Its agencies such as United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), United Nations Children´s Fund (UNICEF) and others. This collection consists of books, serial publications, proceedings, prospectus, news bulletins and brochures. In February 2011, NLM was appointed to be the depository centre for United Nation. Special Collections of United Nations Organization can be referred to at Level 4 of Anjung Bestari.\n\nThe building design and concept reflecting Malaysian identity that symbolises intellectual achievement plus inspiration from the national's rich cultural heritage.The concept of the mind lends its touch in the architecture of the interior. The design is based on the concept of the traditional Malay headgear the \"tengkolok\" which is a symbol of intellectual pride and respect in Malaysian culture. The tiles on the roof are also unique containing patterns inspired by the Kain Songket (traditional hand woven cloth).\n\nThe architectural firm responsible for the design of the National Library of Malaysia's building at Jalan Tun Razak, Kuala Lumpur is Kumpulan Akitek.\n\nrapidKL bus 402 from LRT/Monorail Titiwangsa or LRT Ampang Park.\n"}
{"id": "26102992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26102992", "title": "Nuclear Terrorism Convention", "text": "Nuclear Terrorism Convention\n\nThe Nuclear Terrorism Convention (formally, the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism) is a 2005 United Nations treaty designed to criminalize acts of nuclear terrorism and to promote police and judicial cooperation to prevent, investigate and punish those acts. As of September 2018, the convention has 115 signatories and 114 state parties, including the nuclear powers China, France, India, Russia, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Most recently, Benin ratified the convention on 2 November 2017.\n\nThe Convention covers a broad range of acts and possible targets, including nuclear power plants and nuclear reactors; covers threats and attempts to commit such crimes or to participate in them, as an accomplice; stipulates that offenders shall be either extradited or prosecuted; encourages States to cooperate in preventing terrorist attacks by sharing information and assisting each other in connection with criminal investigations and extradition proceedings; and, deals with both crisis situations, assisting States to solve the situations and post-crisis situations by rendering nuclear material safe through the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).\n\nArticle 2 of the convention defines the offence of Nuclear terrorism as follows:\nAt the same time, article 4 expressly excludes the application of the convention to the use of nuclear devices during armed conflicts, without recognizing though the legality of the use of nuclear weapons:\nAs of September 2018, there are 114 states parties to the Convention.\n\nThe following states have signed, but not ratified, the Convention.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13016395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13016395", "title": "Outline of intellectual property", "text": "Outline of intellectual property\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to intellectual property:\n\nIntellectual property – intangible assets such as musical, literary, and artistic works; discoveries and inventions; and words, phrases, symbols, and designs. Common types of intellectual property rights include copyright, trademarks, patents, industrial design rights, trade dress, and in some jurisdictions trade secrets. They may be sometimes called intellectual rights.\n\n\"See outline of patents for a topical guide and overview of patents.\"\n\nSome examples of intellectual property include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2482700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2482700", "title": "Pecunia non olet", "text": "Pecunia non olet\n\nPecunia non olet (\"money does not stink\") is a Latin saying. The phrase is ascribed to the Roman emperor Vespasian (ruled AD 69–79).\n\nVespasian imposed a Urine Tax () on the distribution of urine from public urinals in Rome's Cloaca Maxima (great sewer) system. (The Roman lower classes urinated into pots which were emptied into cesspools.) The urine collected from public urinals was sold as an ingredient for several chemical processes. It was used in tanning, and also by launderers as a source of ammonia to clean and whiten woollen togas. The buyers of the urine paid the tax.\n\nThe Roman historian Suetonius reports that when Vespasian's son Titus complained about the disgusting nature of the tax, his father held up a gold coin and asked whether he felt offended by its smell (\"sciscitans num odore offenderetur\"). When Titus said \"No\", Vespasian replied, \"Yet it comes from urine\" (\"Atqui ex lotio est\"). \n\nThe phrase \"Pecunia non olet\" is still used today to say that the value of money is not tainted by its origins. Vespasian's name still attaches to public urinal in France (\"vespasienne\") and Italy (\"vespasiano\").\n\nIn his description of money and the circulation of commodities generally, Karl Marx refers to this phrase when he observes \"since every commodity disappears when it becomes money it is impossible to tell from the money itself how it got into the hands of its possessor, or what article has been changed into it. 'Non olet', from whatever source it may come.\"\n\"Vespasian's axiom\" is also referred to in passing in the Balzac short story \"Sarrasine\" in connection with the mysterious origins of the wealth of a Parisian family. The proverb receives some attention in Roland Barthes's detailed analysis of the Balzac story in his critical study \"S/Z\". It is possible that F. Scott Fitzgerald alludes to Vespasian's jest in \"The Great Gatsby\" with the phrase \"non-olfactory money\".\n\nIn \"That Hideous Strength\" by C. S. Lewis, the Warden of Bracton College is given the nickname \"Non-Olet\" for having written \"a monumental report on National Sanitation. The subject had, if anything, rather recommended him to the Progressive Element. They regarded it as a slap in the face for the dilettanti and Die-hards, who replied by christening their new Warden Non-Olet.\"\n\nIn the Pulitzer Prize–winning novel \"All The King's Men\", by Robert Penn Warren (1946), protagonist Jack Burden muses that perhaps Vespasian had been right. At the time, Jack is beset with doubts about the source of his inheritance.\n\nIn \"London Fields\" by Martin Amis, while smelling a wad of used £50 notes, foil Guy Clinch observes, \"Pecunia non olet was dead wrong. Pecunia olet.\"\n\nIn \"The Surgeon's Mate\" by Patrick O'Brian, when Admiral Saumarez is speaking of \"glory to be picked up in the Baltic [...] and in any case, who cares about filthy lucre?\", one of the assembled captains murmurs \"Non olet\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9038559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9038559", "title": "Policy Council of Guernsey", "text": "Policy Council of Guernsey\n\nGuernsey operates a system of government by committees and consensus. There are no political parties - members of the parliament, which is known as the States of Deliberation, are elected as independents. The States of Deliberation is both parliament and executive, but it delegates some of its executive functions to policy-specific committees, which are known as States Departments, each of which is run by five political members, all of whom have equal voting power. \n\nDespite having explicitly rejected a proposal to adopt an executive/ministerial system of government in 2002, the heads of each department were known as ministers. They were, in effect, presidents or chairmen of their committees.\n\nThe Policy Council consisted of the ministers/presidents of each of the ten departments plus the chief minister, who chairs Policy Council and speaks for the island externally in political matters. The Policy Council's main functions were policy co-ordination and responsibility for external relations. The chief minister and all department heads are elected by all members of the States of Deliberation. There also existed the post of Deputy Chief Minister, which was held by one of the department heads and was also elected by all members of the States of Deliberation.\n\nOn 1 May 2016 the Policy Council of Guernsey ceased to exist and a new committee, the Policy and Resources Committee was created.\n\n"}
{"id": "175234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=175234", "title": "Praemunire", "text": "Praemunire\n\nIn English history, praemunire or praemunire facias refers to a 14th-century law that prohibited the assertion or maintenance of papal jurisdiction, or any other foreign jurisdiction or claim of supremacy in England, against the supremacy of the monarch. This law was enforced by the \"writ of praemunire facias\", a writ of summons from which the law takes its name.\n\nThe name \"praemunire\" may denote the statute, the writ, or the offence.\n\n\"Praemunire\" in classical Latin means \"to fortify\". In medieval Latin, \"praemunire\" was confused with and used for \"praemonere\", to forewarn, as the writ commanded that the sheriff do (\"facias\") warn (\"praemunire\") the summoned person to appear before the Court.\n\nThe Statute of Praemunire (16 Ric. 2, c. 5) was passed by the Parliament of England during the reign of Richard II, who purchased various loans from foreign creditors and rulers as well as bulls from Rome in 1392. It was only one of numerous stringent measures passed for the purpose of restraining the Holy See and all forms of papal authority in England and of eliminating in general the influence of foreign powers especially creditors and the Holy Roman Emperor. Because the Papacy had long claimed a form of temporal supremacy over England and Ireland, from the beginning of the 14th century, papal intervention had been particularly active, more especially in two forms. The one, the disposal of ecclesiastical benefices, before the same became vacant, to men of the pope’s own choosing; the other, the encouragement of resort to himself and his curia, rather than to the courts of the country, for legal justice.\n\nThe Statute of Provisors (1306), passed in the reign of Edward I, was, according to Sir Edward Coke, the foundation of all subsequent statutes of \"praemunire\". This statute enacted \"that no tax imposed by any religious persons should be sent out of the country whether under the name of a rent, tallage, tribute or any kind of imposition\". A much greater check on the freedom of action of the popes was imposed by the Statute of Provisors (1351) and the Statute of \"Praemunire\" passed in the reign of Edward III.\n\nThe former of these, after premising \"that the Pope of Rome, accroaching to him the seignories of possession and benefices of the holy Church of the realm of England doth give and grant the same benefices to aliens which did never dwell in England, and to cardinals, which might not dwell here, and to others as well aliens as denizens, as if he had been patron or advowee of the said dignities and benefices, as he was not of right by the laws of England\", ordained the free election of all dignities and benefices elective in the manner as they were granted by the king’s progenitors.\n\nThe Statute of Praemunire (the first statute so called) (1353), though especially levelled at the pretensions of the Roman Curia, was also levelled against the pretensions of any foreign power and therefore was created to maintain the independence of the crown against all pretensions against it. By it, the king \"at the grievous and clamorous complaints of the great men and commons of the realm of England\" enacts \"that all the people of the king’s ligeance of what condition that they be, which shall draw any out of the realm in plea\" or any matter of which the cognizance properly belongs to the king’s court shall be allowed two months in which to answer for their contempt of the king’s rights in transferring their pleas abroad. The penalties which were attached to the offence under this statute involved the loss of all civil rights, forfeiture of lands, goods and chattels, and imprisonment during the royal pleasure.\n\nMany other statutes followed that of 1353, but that which was passed in the sixteenth year of Richard II's reign is, as mentioned before, usually referred to as the Statute of Praemunire. This statute, after first stating \"that the right of recovering the presentments to churches, prebends, and other benefices … belongeth only to the king’s court of the old right of his crown, used and approved in the time of all his progenitors kings of England,\" proceeds to condemn the practice of papal translation, and after rehearsing the promise of the three estates of the realm to stand with the king in all cases touching his crown and his regality, enacts \"that if any purchase or pursue, or cause to be purchased or pursued in the court of Rome, or elsewhere, any such translations, processes, and sentences of excommunications, bulls, instruments or any other things whatsoever ... he and his notaries, abettors and counsellors\" shall be put out of the king's protection, and their lands escheat.\n\nPraemunire declined in importance, but experienced a resurgence under Henry VIII as the Protestant Reformation unfolded. First individuals were indicted for \"praemunire\", then groups of clergy, and lastly the entire English clergy was accused of being agents of a foreign power (the Pope). In time, Henry asserted himself as \"of the Church of England in Earth under Jesus Christ Supreme Head\", and the clergy of the Church of England no longer answered to a foreign power.\n\nDuring the 19th century the Camerlengo of the time would on occasion communicate the death of a Pope to the British monarch (along with other rulers), and made occasional other communications. There was some discussion as to whether the Statute of Praemunire meant that no response could be made: the compromises reached included conveying messages on a 'private' rather than 'official' level, or going via the Hanoverian minister at London (responding as King of Hanover). Eventually it was decided that there was no legal obstacle to establishing formal diplomatic relations.\n\nThe abolition in 1870 of forfeiture as a penalty for treason and felony did not apply to \"praemunire\" because it was a misdemeanour.\n\nAs of the Criminal Law Act 1967 coming into effect, praemunire facias is no longer an offence in England, Wales or Northern Ireland.\n\nAt the 2018 Conservative Party conference in Birmingham, the former Foreign Secretary, Boris Johnson, suggested that the government might be in breach of this defunct law in regard to its proposed departure settlement with the European Union.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39936933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39936933", "title": "Prest v Petrodel Resources Ltd", "text": "Prest v Petrodel Resources Ltd\n\nMs Yasmin Prest claimed under Matrimonial Causes Act 1973 sections 23 and 24 for ancillary relief against the offshore companies solely owned by Mr Michael Prest. Mrs Prest said they held legal title to properties that he beneficially owned, including a £4m house at 16 Warwick Avenue, London. They had married in 1993 and divorced in 2008. He did not comply with orders for full and frank disclosure of his financial position, and the companies did not file a defence. The Matrimonial Causes Act 1973 section 24 required that for a court to be able to order a transfer a property, Mr Prest had to be ‘entitled’ to the properties held by his companies. Mr Prest contended that he was not entitled to the properties.\n\nMoylan J, in the Family Division of the High Court, held that Mr Prest had the ability to transfer the properties in practice, so he was “entitled” to them under MCA 1973 s 24(1)(a). The court therefore had jurisdiction to make a transfer order. He ordered Mr Prest to transfer to the wife six properties and an interest in a seventh which were held in the name of two of the husband’s companies. He rejected the husband had done anything improper relating to the companies to allow piercing the corporate veil. But under MCA 1973 s 24(1)(a) ancillary relief was wider. Because Mr Prest’s properties were worth £37.5 million, Mrs Prest’s fair award was valued at £17.5m. In reviewing the law as it relates to piercing the corporate veil, he noted the following principles:\n\nIn that regard, he found that piercing was justified, not under the general principles, but by virtue of the Act. The husband's properties were worth approximately £37.5 million, and therefore the wife's fair award was valued at £17.5 million.\n\nThe Court of Appeal, with Rimer LJ and Patten LJ in the majority, allowed an appeal by the companies. The Family Division’s practice of treating the assets of companies substantially owned by one party to the marriage as available for distribution under MCA 1973 section 24(1)(a) was beyond the jurisdiction of the court unless the corporate personality of the company was being abused. The corporate form needed to be used for an improper purpose, or it had to be shown that the companies held the properties on trust for Mr Prest. Because Munby J had rejected these possibilities in \"Ben Hashem v Al Shayif\" his order must have been incorrect. In the majority's view, this conflicted with \"Salomon v A Salomon & Co Ltd\", as affirmed in \"Woolfson v Strathclyde Regional Council\" and \"Adams v Cape Industries plc\". Patten LJ commented on other Family Division cases leading to similar results.\n\nThorpe LJ (a former judge of the Family Division) dissented, and said the following. \n\nThe Supreme Court unanimously overturned the Court of Appeal and held that Mr Prest beneficially owned the assets of the Petrodel Resources Ltd companies under a resulting trust because he contributed to their purchase price. There was no need to pierce the corporate veil, which could only be done in limited situations. However, because Mr Prest had been \"entitled\" to the assets of his companies under a resulting trust, under the Matrimonial Causes Act 1973 section 24 the court had jurisdiction to transfer half the value of the properties to Mrs Prest.\n\nLord Sumption gave the first judgment. He said there was only a limited power to pierce the corporate veil, namely when people were under an existing legal obligation which is deliberately evaded. Fraud cuts through everything. A veil could be pierced only for the purpose of depriving the company or its controller of the advantage they would otherwise obtain from the company’s separate legal personality. There had been no evidence that Mr Prest had set up the companies to avoid any obligations in these divorce proceedings, so there was no ground for piercing the corporate veil. The same was true under the MCA 1973 s 24. This did invoke property concepts with established meanings, and did not mean something different in matrimonial proceedings. If someone did try to frustrate a claim, the MCA 1973 section 37 made provision for setting aside certain dispositions. The jurisdiction that Munby J purported to recognise would, however, cut across the statutory schemes of company and insolvency law that protected people dealing with a company. So, MCA 1973 section 24 did not give judges power to order Mr Prest to transfer property that he was not entitled to in law. However, on the facts, the Petrodel Resources Ltd companies could be ordered to transfer the properties under MCA 1973 section 24 because they belonged to him beneficially: under a resulting trust. The evidence was obscure, but this was because of Mr Prest’s obstruction and mendacity. He said the following.\n\nLord Neuberger emphasised that piercing the corporate veil should be the last resort. He noted that in other Commonwealth countries there was also little consensus. In Australia, \"there is no common, unifying principle, which underlies the occasional decision of courts to pierce the corporate veil\", and that \"there is no principled approach to be derived from the authorities\". In Canada, \"[t]he law on when a court may … '[lift] the corporate veil' … follows no consistent principle\". In New Zealand, \"'to lift the corporate veil' … is not a principle. It describes the process, but provides no guidance as to when it can be used.\" In South Africa, \"[t]he law is far from settled with regard to the circumstances in which it would be permissible to pierce the corporate veil\". Similar confusion was also noted in US corporate law and in academic reviews. In conclusion he said the following.\n\nLady Hale gave a judgment concurring in the result, with which Lord Wilson agreed, though added a qualification to Lord Sumption's decision.\n\nLord Mance emphasised that future possible situations where the veil could be pierced should not be foreclosed.\n\nLord Clarke concurred. He agreed that Munby J in \"Ben Hashem v Al Shayif\" was correct that the veil could only be pierced where all other possibilities were exhausted. Also as he said in \"VTB Capital plc v Nutritek International Corp\" it is wrong to foreclose all future possibilities of piercing the veil.\n\nLord Walker said he welcomed \"the full discussion in the judgments of Lord Neuberger, Lady Hale, Lord Mance and Lord Sumption\" and concluded with the following.\n\nThe significance of \"Prest\" was that it suggested that piercing the veil was usually a last resort, and that remedies outside of \"piercing\" the veil, particularly in equity, or the law of tort, could achieve appropriate results on the facts of each case. The metaphor of piercing was thought to be unhelpful by most of the judges in the Supreme Court.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48423549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48423549", "title": "Primary and secondary legislation", "text": "Primary and secondary legislation\n\nIn parliamentary systems and presidential systems of government, primary legislation and secondary legislation, the latter also called delegated legislation or subordinate legislation, are two forms of law, created respectively by the legislative and executive branches of government. Primary legislation generally consists of statutes, also known as \"acts\", that set out broad outlines and principles, but delegate specific authority to an executive branch to make more specific laws under the aegis of the principal act. The executive branch can then issue secondary legislation (mainly via its regulatory agencies), creating legally-enforceable regulations and the procedures for implementing them. \n\nIn the United Kingdom, and other Commonwealth nations, primary legislation can take a number of different forms:\n\nIn the United Kingdom, secondary legislation (also referred to as \"delegated legislation\" or \"subordinate legislation\") is law made by an executive authority under powers delegated from by an enactment of primary legislation, which grants the executive agency power to implement and administer the requirements of that primary legislation.\n\nForms of secondary legislation in the United Kingdom include:\n\nIn the United States, primary legislation is, at the federal level, an Act of Congress, and the statute that delegates authority is called an \"authorizing statute\" or \"delegation of rule making authority\".\n\nA law promulgated by the executive branch agency of the United States Government as the result of primary legislation is called a \"regulatory law\", as \"legislation\" is used only to refer to acts of the legislative branch, never the executive or the judicial branches. The body of law that governs the agency's exercise of rule making and adjudication powers is called \"administrative law,\" primarily the Administrative Procedure Act.\n\nIn a 2013 majority opinion of the Supreme Court of the United States, Associate Justice Antonin Scalia stated that\n\nCivil law systems are almost universal in Europe, with the exceptions of England, Wales, Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland, and in Central and South America, much of Africa and Asia.\n\nIn all cases a parliament will issue primary legislation, with lesser bodies granted powers to issue delegated legislation. A judicial review may be provided by a constitutional court.\n\nEach member state of the European Union (EU) has its own laws, and there is also overall EU law. The founding treaty, the 1957 Treaty of Rome, and all subsequent treaties, such as the Maastricht Treaty, Nice Treaty, and Lisbon Treaty, are the main primary legislation. The Treaty of Rome gives powers to make secondary legislation.\n\nMember states must surrender some national jurisdiction powers to the European Union; these delegated powers are exercised by the Commission, Council and European Parliament acting in concert, having consulted the European Economic and Social Committee and the European Committee of the Regions. The powers are exercised via binding Regulations, Directives, Decisions, and non-binding Recommendations and Opinions.\n\n\nThe Commission may take executive action in pursuance of policy, and may even act quasi-judicially in matters of EU competition law, a power defined in Article 101 and Article 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Privileged parties, such as Member States, EU Institutions, and those with specific standing, may initiate litigation. For example, the Commission may sue Member States for breaches of EU obligations, and Member States may sue Institutions or other Member States for breach of EU law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "440936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=440936", "title": "Prosecutor", "text": "Prosecutor\n\nA prosecutor is a legal representative of the prosecution in countries with either the common law adversarial system, or the civil law inquisitorial system. The prosecution is the legal party responsible for presenting the case in a criminal trial against an individual accused of breaking the law. Typically, the prosecutor represents the government in the case brought against the accused person.\n\nProsecutors are typically lawyers who possess a law degree, and are recognized as legal professionals by the court in which they intend to represent society (that is, they have been admitted to the bar).\n\nThey usually only become involved in a criminal case once a suspect has been identified and charges need to be filed. They are typically employed by an office of the government, with safeguards in place to ensure such an office can successfully pursue the prosecution of government officials. Often, multiple offices exist in a single country, especially in those countries with federal governments where sovereignty has been bifurcated or devolved in some way.\n\nSince prosecutors are backed by the power of the state, they are usually subject to special professional responsibility rules in addition to those binding all lawyers. For example, in the United States, Rule 3.8 of the ABA Model Rules of Professional Conduct requires prosecutors to \"make timely disclosure to the defense of all evidence or information that tends to negate the guilt of the accused or mitigates the offense.\" Not all U.S. states adopt the model rules; however, U.S. Supreme Court cases and other appellate cases have ruled that such disclosure is required. Typical sources of ethical requirements imposed on prosecutors come from appellate court opinions, state or federal court rules, and state or federal statutes (codified laws).\n\nIn Australia, Canada, England and Wales, Hong Kong, Northern Ireland, Republic of Ireland, Trinidad & Tobago, Kenya, and South Africa, the head of the prosecuting authority is typically known as the Director of Public Prosecutions, and is appointed, not elected. A DPP may be subject to varying degrees of control by the Attorney General, usually by a formal written directive which must be published.\n\nIn Australia, the Offices of the Director of Public Prosecutions institute prosecutions for indictable offences on behalf of the Crown. At least in the case of very serious matters, the DPP will be asked by the police, during the course of the investigation, to advise them on sufficiency of evidence, and may well be asked, if he or she thinks it proper, to prepare an application to the relevant court for search, listening device or telecommunications interception warrants.\n\nMore recent constitutions, such as South Africa's, tend to guarantee the independence and impartiality of the DPP.\n\nIn Canada, public prosecutors in most provinces are called Crown Attorney or Crown Counsel. They are generally appointed by the provincial Attorney-General.\n\nThough Scots law is a mixed system, its civil law jurisdiction indicates its civil law heritage. Here, all prosecutions are carried out by Procurators Fiscal and Advocates Depute on behalf of the Lord Advocate, and, in theory, they can direct investigations by the police. In very serious cases, a Procurator Fiscal, Advocate Depute or even the Lord Advocate, may take charge of a police investigation. It is at the discretion of the Procurator Fiscal, Advocate Depute, or Lord Advocate to take a prosecution to court, and to decide on whether or not to prosecute it under solemn procedure or summary procedure. Other remedies are open to a prosecutor in Scotland, including fiscal fines and non-court based interventions, such as rehabilitation and social work. All prosecutions are handled within the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service. Procurators fiscal will usually refer cases involving minors to Children's Hearings, which are not courts of law, but a panel of lay members empowered to act in the interests of the child.\n\nIn the United States, the director of a prosecution office may be known by any of several names depending on the jurisdiction, most commonly District Attorney.\n\nThe prosecution is the legal party responsible for presenting the case against an individual or a corporation suspected of breaking the law, initiating and directing further criminal investigations, guiding and recommending the sentencing of offenders, and are the only attorneys allowed to participate in grand jury proceedings.\n\nThe titles of prosecutors in state courts vary from state to state and level of government (i.e. city, county, and state) and include the terms District Attorney in New York, California, Texas, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Massachusetts, North Carolina, Georgia, Nevada, Wisconsin, Oregon, and Oklahoma; City Attorney in California cities (typically prosecute only minor and misdemeanor offenses) Commonwealth's Attorney in Kentucky and Virginia; County Attorney in Minnesota and Arizona; County Prosecutor in New Jersey, Ohio, and Indiana; District Attorney General in Tennessee; Prosecuting Attorney in Arkansas, Hawaii, Idaho, Michigan, Washington, and West Virginia (as well as in Missouri where cities additionally use \"City Attorneys\" to prosecute on their behalf); State's Attorney in Connecticut, Florida, Illinois, Maryland, North Dakota, and Vermont; State Prosecutor; Attorney General in Delaware and Rhode Island; and Solicitor in South Carolina. Prosecutors are most often chosen through local elections, and typically hire other attorneys as deputies or assistants to conduct most of the actual work of the office. United States Attorneys are appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate. They represent the federal government in federal court in both civil and criminal cases. Private attorneys general can bring criminal cases on behalf of private parties in some states.\n\nProsecutors are required by state and federal laws to follow certain rules. For example, the government must disclose exculpatory evidence to the defense; must disclose matters affecting the credibility of prosecution witnesses, such as an agreement to dismiss the witness's own charges in exchange for her testimony; must not destroy potentially useful evidence in bad faith; and must not use false testimony to secure a conviction. Failure to follow these rules may result in a finding of prosecutorial misconduct, although a 2013 investigation found that actual discipline for prosecutorial misconduct was lacking.\n\nProsecutors are also tasked with seeking justice in their prosecutions. \"The United States Attorney,\" explained the U.S. Supreme Court, is the representative not of an ordinary party to a controversy, but of a sovereignty whose obligation to govern impartially is as compelling as its obligation to govern at all, and whose interest, therefore, in a criminal prosecution is not that it shall win a case, but that justice shall be done. As such, he is in a peculiar and very definite sense the servant of the law, the two-fold aim of which is that guilt shall not escape or innocence suffer. He may prosecute with earnestness and vigor—indeed, he should do so. But, while he may strike hard blows, he is not at liberty to strike foul ones. It is as much his duty to refrain from improper methods calculated to produce a wrongful conviction as it is to use every legitimate means to bring about a just one. \n\nProsecutors in some jurisdictions have the discretion to not pursue criminal charges, even when there is probable cause, if they determine that there is no reasonable likelihood of conviction. Prosecutors may dismiss charges in this situation by seeking a voluntary dismissal or nolle prosequi. \n\nIn Kentucky, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, and Virginia, criminal prosecutions are brought in the name of the Commonwealth. In California, Colorado, Illinois, Michigan, and New York, criminal prosecutions are brought in the name of the People. In the remaining states, criminal prosecutions are brought in the name of the State.\n\nProsecutors are typically civil servants who possess a university degree in law and additional training in the administration of justice. In some countries, such as France and Italy, they belong to the same \"corps\" of civil servants as the judges.\n\nIn Belgium, the Senior Crown prosecutor (\"Procureur du Roi/Procureur des Konings\" in trial courts and \"Procureur Général/Procureur-Generaal\" in appellate courts) is supported by subordinate Crown prosecutors (\"substituts/substituten\"). They open preliminary investigations and can hold a suspect in custody for up to 24 hours. When necessary, a Crown prosecutor will request an examining judge (\"juge d'instruction\"/\"onderzoeksrechter\") be appointed to lead a judicial inquest. With a judge investigating, Crown prosecutors do not conduct the interrogatories, but simply lay out the scope of the crimes which the judge and law enforcement forces investigate (\"la saisine\"). Like defense counsel, Crown prosecutors can request or suggest further investigation be carried out. \nThe Crown prosecutor is in charge of policy decisions and may prioritize cases and procedures as need be.\n\nDuring a criminal trial, prosecutors must introduce and explain the case to the trier of fact, i.e., judges or jury. They generally suggest a reasonable sentence which the court is not obligated to follow; the court may decide on a tougher or softer sentence. \n\nCrown prosecutors also have a number of administrative duties. They may advise the court during civil actions.\n\nUnder Belgian law, judges and prosecutors are judicial officers with equal rank and pay.\n\nThe Minister of Justice can order a criminal investigation but cannot prevent one (\"droit d'injonction positive\"/\"positief injunctierecht\").\n\nIn Brazil, the public prosecutors form a body of autonomous civil servants—the Public Ministry (Ministério Público)—working both at the federal and state level. \n\nFederal prosecutors (\"procuradores da República\") are divided in three ranks, according to the jurisdiction of the courts before which they officiate. \"Procuradores da República\" officiate before single judges and lower courts, \"procuradores regionais da República\" before federal appellate courts, and \"subprocuradores gerais da República\" before the superior federal courts. The \"Procurador Geral da República\" heads the federal body, and tries cases before the \"Supremo Tribunal Federal.\"\n\nAt the state level, the career is usually divided in \"promotores de Justiça\" who practice before the lower courts and \"procuradores de Justiça\" who practice before the state courts of appeals. There are also military prosecutors whose career, although linked to the federal prosecutors, is divided in a manner similar to state prosecutors.\n\nIn Brazil the prosecutors' main job is to promote justice, as such they have the duty of not only trying criminal cases, but, if during the trial, they become convinced of a defendant's innocence, requesting the judge to acquit him. The prosecutor's office has always the last word on whether criminal offenses will or will not be charged, with the exception of those rare cases in which Brazilian law allows for private prosecution. In such cases, the prosecutor will officiate as \"custos legis\", being responsible to ensure that justice is indeed carried out.\n\nAlthough empowered by law to do so, prosecutors conduct criminal investigations only in major cases, usually involving police or public officials' wrongdoings. Also, they are in charge of external control over police activity and requesting the initiation of a police investigation.\n\nThe power of individual prosecutors to hold criminal investigations is still controversial and, although massively supported by judges, prosecutors and the general population, it is being contested before the Supremo Tribunal Federal.\n\nAccording to a 2012 law, the chief of police (\"delegado de polícia\"), as the police authority, is responsible for conducting the criminal investigation in Brazil by means of a police investigation (\"inquérito policial\") or other procedure provided by law that has the purpose of ascertaining the circumstances, materiality, and authorship of criminal offenses. Similar provisions are found in the Code of Criminal Procedure and in article 144 of the federal constitution.\n\nBeside their criminal duties, Brazilian prosecutors are among those authorized by the Brazilian constitution to bring action against private individuals, commercial enterprises, and the federal, state and municipal governments, in the defense of minorities, the environment, consumers, and the civil society in general.\n\nIn France, the Office of the Prosecutor includes a Chief Prosecutor (\"Procureur de la République\" in trial courts and \"procureur général\" in appellate courts or the Supreme Court) and his deputies and assistants (\"avocats généraux\" and \"substituts\"). The Chief Prosecutor generally initiates preliminary investigations and, if necessary, asks that an examining judge (\"juge d'instruction\") be assigned to lead a formal judicial investigation. When an investigation is led by a judge, the prosecutor plays a supervisory role, defining the scope of the crimes being examined by the judge and law enforcement forces. Like defense counsel, the chief prosecutor may petition or move for further investigation. During criminal proceedings, prosecutors are responsible for presenting the case at trial to either the bench or the jury. Prosecutors generally suggest advisory sentencing guidelines, but the sentence remains at the court's discretion to decide, to increase or reduce as it sees fit. In addition, prosecutors have several administrative duties.\n\nProsecutors are considered magistrates under French law, as in most civil law countries. While the defense and the plaintiff are both represented by common lawyers, who sit (on chairs) on the courtroom floor, the prosecutor sits on a platform as the judge does, although he doesn't participate in deliberation. Judges and prosecutors are trained at the same school, and regard one other as colleagues.\n\nIn Germany, the \"Staatsanwalt\" (\"state attorney\") is a life-tenured public official in the senior judicial service belonging to the same corps as judges. The Staatsanwalt heads pre-trial criminal investigations, decides whether to press a charge or drop it, and represents the government in criminal courts. He not only has the \"professional responsibility\" not to withhold exculpatory information, but is also required by law to actively determine such circumstances and to make them available to the defendant or his/her defense attorney. If he is not convinced of the defendant's guilt, the state attorney is required to plead against or in favor of the defendant according to the prosecutor's own assessment. Prosecution is compulsory if the prosecutor has sufficient evidence to convict.\n\nIn Italy, a Prosecutor's Office is composed of a Chief Prosecutor (\"procuratore capo\") assisted by deputies (\"procuratori aggiunti\") and assistants (\"sostituti procuratori\"). Prosecutors in Italy are judicial officers just like judges and are ceremonially referred to as \"Pubblico Ministero\" (\"Public Ministry\" or P.M.).\n\nItalian Prosecutors officiate as \"custos legis\", being responsible to ensure that justice is indeed carried out. They are obligated under the Constitution to initiate preliminary investigations once they are informed or take personal notice of a criminal act—\"notitia criminis\"—or receive a bill of complaint. They can direct investigations or conduct them through orders and directives given to (judicial) police detectives, who can make their own parallel investigations in coordination with the Prosecutor. If enough evidence has been gathered in order to proceed, the prosecution is compulsory and it must move from preliminary investigations to initiate trial proceedings. At trial, the prosecuting attorney has to handle the prosecution but is prohibited from withholding exculpatory evidence, for they have to promote justice, which means that they have the duty of not only trying criminal cases, but, to request the judge to acquit him if, during the trial, they become convinced of a defendant's innocence, or agree that there is no evidence, beyond any reasonable doubt, of his guiltiness.\n\nIn appellate courts, the Office of the Prosecutor is called \"Procura Generale\" and the Chief Prosecutor the \"Procuratore Generale\" (PG). The \"Procuratore Generale presso la Corte di Cassazione\" is the Chief General Prosecutor before the Corte di Cassazione, the Supreme Court of Italy.\n\nProsecutors are allowed during their career to act in the other's stead, but a recent ruling by the Italian Constitutional Court stated that prosecutors, who wish to become judges, must relocate to another region and are prohibited to sit or hear trials that they themselves initiated.\n\nIn Japan, public prosecutors are professional officials who have considerable powers of investigation, prosecution, superintendence of criminal execution and so on. Prosecutors can direct police for investigation purposes, and sometimes investigate directly. Only prosecutors can prosecute criminals in principle, and prosecutors can decide whether to prosecute or not. High-ranking officials of the Ministry of Justice are largely prosecutors.\n\nThe highest ranking prosecutor office of the Prokuratura in Poland is the Prokurator Generalny (General Prosecutor)—chief of the Prokuratura Generalna (General Prosecutor Office). The GP has 5 deputies. Structure of Public Prosecutor in Poland is 4-level: \nGeneral Prosecutor Office --> Appellation Prosecutor Offices (11) --> District Prosecutor Offices (46) --> Regional Prosecutor Offices (326).\n\nProsecutors are the public officials who are members of the Ministry of Justice.\n\nProsecutors can conduct crime investigations directly or indirectly. They are responsible for the entire process of investigations and court prosecutions. Since Korean modern law was designed after continental system, the role of Korean prosecutors is similar or identical to that of European equivalents in commanding investigations, determining indictable cases and prosecuting process. Korean prosecutors take pride in successful prosecutions of former presidents(1995) and sons of the incumbent presidents(1997 and 2002). Besides, they have made important contributions to convicting many corrupt high-ranking officials and business leaders. A prosecutor has the power to prohibit a defendant or an accused individual from departing the Republic of Korea via an \"international hold\".\n\nIn Sweden, public prosecutors are lawyers who work out of the Swedish Office of Public Prosecutions (\"Åklagarmyndigheten\") and direct police investigations of serious crimes. For all criminal cases, public prosecutors decide arrests and charges on behalf of the public and are the only public officers who can make such decisions. Plaintiffs also have the option of hiring their own special prosecutor (\"enskilt åtal\"). The exception is cases concerning crimes against the freedom of the press for which the Attorney General acts as the prosecuting attorney. In court, the prosecutor is not necessarily in an adversarial relationship to the defendant, but is under an obligation to investigate and present information which may incriminate or exhonerate the defendant. The prosecutor is not a judicial officer, nor do they participate in the private deliberations of the court.\n\nPublic prosecutors are the only public officers who can decide to appeal cases to appellate courts (\"hovrätter\"). Otherwise, appeals are initiated by defense counsel, the plaintiff, their representatives, and other parties to the case (\"målsäganden\"). When a case has been decided by an appellate court, the right to appeal to the Supreme Court passes from the case's prosecutor to the Director of Public Prosecutions (\"Riksåklagaren\").\n\nA Public Procurator is an office used in Socialist judicial systems which, in some ways, corresponds to that of a public prosecutor in other legal systems, but with more far-reaching responsibilities, such as handling investigations otherwise performed by branches of the police. Conversely, the policing systems in socialist countries, such as the Militsiya of the Soviet Union, were not aimed at fulfilling the same roles as police forces in Democratic countries.\n\nA Public Procurator is a position in the People's Republic of China, analogous to both detective and public prosecutor. Legally, they are bound by Public Procurators' Law of the People's Republic of China. According to Article 6, the functions and duties of public procurators are as follows:\n\n\nThe Supreme People's Procuracy is the highest office of public procurators in Vietnam.\n\nIn many countries, the prosecutor's administration is directly subordinate to the executive branch (e.g., the US Attorney General is a member of the President's cabinet). In some other countries, such as Italy or Brazil, the prosecutors are judicial civil servants, so they have the same liberties and independence which that judges traditionally enjoy.\n\nIn other countries, a form of private prosecution is available, meaning persons or private entities can directly petition the courts to hold trial against someone they feel is guilty of a crime, should the prosecutor refuse to indict.\n\nIn the early history of England, victims of a crime and their family had the right to hire a private attorney to prosecute criminal charges against the person alleged to have injured the victim. In the 18th century, prosecution of almost all criminal offences in England was private, usually by the victim. In Colonial America, because of Dutch (and possibly French) practice and the expansion of the office of attorney general, public officials came to dominate the prosecution of crimes. However, privately funded prosecutors constituted a significant element of the state criminal justice system throughout the nineteenth century. The use of a private prosecutor was incorporated into the common law of Virginia, but is no longer permitted there. Private prosecutors were also used in North Carolina as late as 1975. Private prosecution has been used in Nigeria, but the practice is being phased out.\n\nBruce L. Benson's \"To Serve and Protect\" lauds the role of private prosecutors, often employed by prosecution associations, in serving the needs of crime victims in England. Radical libertarian theory holds that public prosecutors should not exist, but that crimes should instead be treated as civil torts. Murray Rothbard writes, \"In a libertarian world, there would be no crimes against an ill-defined 'society,' and therefore no such person as a 'district attorney' who decides on a charge and then presses those charges against an alleged criminal.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4321944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4321944", "title": "Protection of Workers' Claims (Employer's Insolvency) Convention, 1992", "text": "Protection of Workers' Claims (Employer's Insolvency) Convention, 1992\n\nProtection of Workers' Claims (Employer's Insolvency) Convention, 1992 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1992, with the preamble stating:\nStressing the importance of the protection of workers' claims in the event of the insolvency of their employer and recalling the provisions on this subject in Article 11 of the Protection of Wages Convention, 1949, and Article 11 of the Workmen's Compensation (Accidents) Convention, 1925...\n\nThe convention revised the principles contained in ILO Convention C95, Protection of Wages Convention, 1949.\n\nAs of 2013, the convention has been ratified by 21 states.\n\n"}
{"id": "526716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=526716", "title": "Registration of Political Parties Act 1998", "text": "Registration of Political Parties Act 1998\n\nThe Registration of Political Parties Act 1998 (c. 48), is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom which made legal provision to set up a register of political parties in the United Kingdom. Previously there had been no such register, and political parties were not specially recognised. There were 468 political parties registered in the UK on 8 October 2016.\n\nThe legislation was introduced for a variety of reasons. It was planned to introduce some elements of list-based proportional representation in elections to the Scottish Parliament and Welsh Assembly and also to introduce full list-based proportional representation in European Parliament elections in England, Scotland and Wales and for that, political parties needed to have a stronger legal recognition. Additionally, various pieces of legislation needed to refer to parties and so were using \"ad hoc\" definitions, which might have been incompatible.\n\nAnother motivation was the use of the names \"Literal Democrats\", \"Conversative Party\", and \"Labor Party\" by people in elections in the 1990s; these names were criticised as potentially confusing with the names of the three major parties in the UK (the Liberal Democrats, the Conservative Party and the Labour Party, respectively). In the 1994 European Elections, Richard Huggett stood as a Literal Democrat candidate for the Devon and East Plymouth seat, taking more votes than the Conservative Party margin over the Liberal Democrats, leading to a legal challenge by the Liberal Democrat candidate.\n\nThe legislation therefore introduced a register of political parties; and included provisions to prohibit \"confusion\" with already-existing parties, names that were \"more than six words\", or were \"obscene or offensive\".\n\nAs the act also permitted logos on ballot papers, the act also introduced a similar register for emblems, which had the result that the Communist Party of Britain is the only party in the United Kingdom permitted to use the hammer and sickle as its ballot-paper logo, although they usually use the hammer and dove variant. Parties may register more than one emblem, or none at all; most have two or three.\n\nThe act was amended by the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 (2000 c. 41) to change the registration authority to the Electoral Commission from \"the registrar or other officer who performs the duty of registration of companies in England and Wales under the Companies Act 1985\"\n\n"}
{"id": "55567810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55567810", "title": "René Roblot", "text": "René Roblot\n\nRené Roblot (28 October 1913 – 1992) was a French jurist who specialized in commercial law. \nHe is known as co-author of the \"Traité de droit commercial\", which ran into over 19 editions.\n\nRené Roblot was born on 28 October 1913.\nHe studied at the Faculty of Law of the University of Paris, and published his thesis on \"La Justice criminelle en France sous la Terreur\" in 1937.\nHe taught at Nancy-Université and at the European University Centre.\nRoblot was Professor of private law, specializing in commercial law, at the Nancy Faculty of Law.\nHe was Dean of the Faculty of Law from 1956 to 1961.\nGeorges Ripert 's \"Traité de droit commercial\" (1914) was later revised and republished by Ripert and Roblot.\n\nRoblot supported supranationalist institutions in Europe.\nThe European University Centre, of which he was secretary-general, had been created after the Congress of Europe of 9 May 1948 to \"provide the cause of European unity with a fresh batch of militant elites\".\nHe was close to Michel Gaudet, director of Legal Service of the High Authority of the European Coal and Steel Community, whom he regularly invited to lecture at the Center.\nAt the Stresa congress on the ECSC in May–June 1957 Roblot replaced Suzanne Bastid, who had stated in public that she was against the European Defence Community (EDC) treaty.\n\nRené Roblot died in 1992.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "311470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=311470", "title": "Reverse domain hijacking", "text": "Reverse domain hijacking\n\nReverse domain name hijacking (also known as reverse cybersquatting or commonly abbreviated as 'RDNH'), occurs where a rightful trademark owner attempts to secure a domain name by making cybersquatting claims against a domain name’s \"cybersquatter\" owner. This often intimidates domain name owners into transferring ownership of their domain names to trademark owners to avoid legal action, particularly when the domain names belong to smaller organizations or individuals. Reverse domain name hijacking is most commonly enacted by larger corporations and famous individuals, in defense of their rightful trademark or to prevent libel or slander.\n\nReverse domain name \"hijacking\" is a legal remedy to counter the practice of domain squatting, wherein individuals hold many registered domain names containing famous third party trademarks with the intent of profiting by selling the domain names back to trademark owners. Trademark owners initially responded by filing cybersquatting lawsuits against registrants to enforce their trademark rights. However, as the number of cybersquatting incidents grew, trademark owners noticed that registrants would often settle their cases rather than litigate. Cybersquatting lawsuits are a defensive strategy to combat cybersquatting, however such lawsuits may also be used as a way of strongarming innocent domain name registrants into giving up domain names that the trademark owner is not, in fact, entitled to.\n\nParagraph 15(e) of the UDRP Rules defines reverse domain name hijacking as the filing of a complaint in bad faith, resulting in the abuse of the UDRP administrative process. It becomes difficult to objectively quantify what constitutes subjective “bad faith,” resulting in panels often viewing parties’ factual discrepancies as indeterminable or immaterial at best. Therefore, despite its express recognition in the UDRP, reverse domain name hijacking findings are rare and based heavily on the factual circumstances surrounding each case.\n\nCircumstances which have been cited by WIPO panels as justification for a finding of reverse domain name hijacking includes:\n\nExamples of such findings include the following WIPO cases: \"Ron Paul vs. RonPaul.org\" (2013), \"Webpass, Inc. v. Paul Breitenbach\" (2010), \"Urban Logic, Inc. v. Urban Logic, Peter Holland\" (2009), \"David Robinson v. Brendan\" (2008), \"Decal v. Gregory Ricks\" (2008), \"Hero v. The Heroic Sandwich\" (2008), \"Poker Host Inc. v. Russ “Dutch” Boyd\" (2008), \"FCC Fomento de Construcciones y Contratas v “FCC.COM”\" (2007), \"Liquid Nutrition v. liquidnutrition.com\" (2007), \"Rohl, LLC v. ROHL SA\" (2006), \"Her Majesty the Queen (Elizabeth II) v. Virtual Countries, Inc.\", and \"Deutsche Welle v. DiamondWare\" (2000). A list of over one hundred reverse domain name hijacking decisions is available at rdnh.com.\n\nAlthough UDRP panelists currently have no tools by which to punish abuses such as Reverse Domain Name Hijacking, such a finding might be used in a local jurisdiction where such abuses might constitute a tort such as tortious interference with contract or an unfair business practice.\n\nThe Anticybersquatting Consumer Protection Act does not expressly recognize reverse domain name hijacking and often only limits defendants’ recovery to retention or transference of the domain name. It also fails to provide any remedies for victims of attempted reverse cybersquatting. However, the statute permits some monetary relief where bad faith, reckless disregard or the willful violation of a court order are involved.\n\nSimilarly, a 1975 amendment to the Lanham Act gives courts discretion in awarding reasonable attorneys’ fees to a prevailing party in “exceptional” circumstances. In attempting to define “exceptional,” Circuit courts are split as to what objectively constitutes malicious, fraudulent, or deliberate misconduct. Some courts award such fees where bad faith or baseless litigation is involved while other courts look for economic coercion or failure to reference controlling law. Nevertheless, due to the inherent animosity arising from being sued, courts generally hold prevailing defendants to a higher level of scrutiny, requiring vexatious or harassing conduct to shift attorney’s fees in their favor.\n\nNeither the UDRP nor the ACPA provides much deterrent to curb trademark owners’ abuse of their rights. To abate reverse domain name hijacking practices, some legal professionals believe Congress should enact laws that are specifically designed to facilitate litigation against reverse cybersquatters. Similarly, some advocates argue for stronger penalties to deter the unlawful deprivation of validly registered domain names, such as fines and precluding offending trademark owners from filing cybersquatting claims for a designated period of time.\n"}
{"id": "59074297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59074297", "title": "Seneschal of the Saintonge", "text": "Seneschal of the Saintonge\n\nThe Seneschal of the Saintonge was an officer carrying out and managing the domestic affairs of the lord of the district of the Saintonge. During the course of the twelfth century, the seneschalship, also became an office of military command.\n\nThe seneschal managed the household, coordinating between the receivers of various landholdings and the chamber, treasury, and the chancellory or chapel. The seneschals of the Saintonge, like those appointed in Normandy, Poitou, and Anjou had custody of demesne fortresses, the regional treasuries, and presidency of the highest court of regional custom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57294080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57294080", "title": "Single African Air Transport Market", "text": "Single African Air Transport Market\n\nThe Single African Air Transport Market (SAATM) is a project of the African Union to create a single market for air transport in Africa. Once completely in force, the single market is supposed to allow significant freedom of air transport in Africa, advancing the AU's .\n\nPrimarily, the goal of the SAATM is to fully implement the 1999 Yamoussoukro Decision. This means that all participants agree to lift market access restrictions for airlines, remove restrictions on ownership, grant each other extended air traffic rights (first through fifth freedoms, not affecting cabotage rights), and liberalise flight frequency and capacity limits. Both passenger and cargo aviation are included. It also seeks to harmonise safety and security regulations in aviation, based on ICAO requirements. Oversight over the SAATM is exercised by the African Union, its Regional Economic Communities and dedicated sub-institutions for supervision and dispute settlement.\n\nThe benefit of liberalising air traffic, particularly the fifth freedom, was first acknowledged in the Yamoussoukro Declaration of 1988. This declaration was reaffirmed in 1999, when the African Union passed the Yamoussoukro Decision. However, the implementation of the decision faced obstacles, as regulatory bodies did not become operational as stipulated in the agreement. A number of countries, in an effort of protectionism, refused to grant fifth freedom rights to foreign airlines.\n\nIn 2015, the laid the framework for a single market implementing the Yamoussoukro Decision to be established by 2017. This deadline was later extended with plans to launch the single market during the 30th African Union Summit in Addis Ababa. There, the launch of the SAATM was then made official on 28 January 2018 by Rwandan President Paul Kagame, as new Chairperson of the African Union.\n\nTwenty-three member states of the African Union have agreed to join the SAATM as starting participants.\n\nSome African governments and airlines have criticised the project. Especially smaller airlines, as well as the Ugandan government, allege that the agreement would lead to few big airlines dominating the market, thus stifling competition.\n\nThe African Development Bank, among other analysts, predicted that the SAATM would lead to cheaper flights, greater passenger volumes and economic benefits.\n\nThe International Air Transport Association commended the African Union for launching the single market, but warned that more work would be required to effectively implement the policy.\n\n"}
{"id": "41108090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41108090", "title": "South African insurance law", "text": "South African insurance law\n\nInsurance in South Africa describes a mechanism in that country for the reduction or minimisation of loss, owing to the constant exposure of people and assets to risks (be they natural or financial or personal). The kinds of loss which arise if such risks eventuate may be either patrimonial or non-patrimonial.\n\nA general definition of insurance is supplied in the case of \"Lake v Reinsurance Corporation Ltd\", which describes it as a contract between an insurer and an insured, in terms of which the insurer undertakes to render to the insured a sum of money, or its equivalent, on the occurrence of a specified uncertain event in which the insured has some interest, in return for the payment of a premium.\n\nAccording to \"LAWSA\",\n\nInsurance is the result of man’s efforts to create financial security in the face of dangers to his life, person and estate. A typical desire of a man is to form and develop his estate [...] The object of forming and developing an estate may, however, be thwarted by dangers to which his present and future position is exposed: if these materialise they may bring about undesirable consequences which may affect his estate immediately or in the future. Even while a danger is still remote it creates an element of uncertainty, whether in relation to its actual occurrence, the exact time of its occurrence, or the extent of its undesirable consequences. This element of uncertainty creates insecurity. Accordingly, it may be said that man’s need for security arises from the tension between his desire to form and develop his estate, on the one hand, and the dangers threatening to thwart that desire, on the other. The most effective and obvious way of achieving security is to take direct precautionary measures against imminent or potential harm [...] One of the most satisfactory general methods of creating financial security against risks therefore seems to be that of spreading the risk among a number of persons all exposed to the same risk and all prepared to make a relatively negligible contribution towards neutralising the detrimental effects of this risk which may materialise for any one or more of their number. This is known as insurance.\n\nThe law of insurance in South Africa consists of\n\n\nBroadly speaking, the law of insurance in South Africa is concerned with\n\n\nEarly Roman-Dutch law dealt mainly with marine insurance.\n\nIn 1879, the Cape Colony passed the General Law Amendment Act, introducing English law to govern “every suit, action and cause having reference to fire, life and marine insurance” in the Cape. In the Transvaal and Natal, English law was not incorporated by legislation; Roman-Dutch law remained applicable in principle, and was never officially displaced, but the influence of English law was felt also in these regions.\n\nIn 1977, the Pre-Union Statute Law Revision Act repealed the Cape General Law Amendment Act. This repeal was interpreted by the Appellate Division, in the leading case on the sources of South African insurance law, \"Mutual & Federal v Oudtshoorn Municipality\", to mean that the Roman-Dutch law of insurance was restored.\n\nSouth African insurance law is governed mainly by Roman-Dutch law as its common law. Nevertheless, the courts have consistently regarded English law as having strong persuasive authority whenever Roman-Dutch authority is lacking or insufficient. In respect of contracts concluded after the Pre-Union Statute Law Revision Act took effect, English law no longer has any binding authority in any part of South Africa, but it has been argued that, \"judging from trade usages prevailing in the South African insurance industry, it may be assumed that the principles of English insurance law are still being adhered to.\"\n\nThe following legislation is of especial importance to South African insurance law:\n\n\nClassification is often merely a matter of convenience, but there may be compelling reasons for it; it may even reflect a difference in underlying legal principles. Various criteria may be applied in classifying contracts of insurance. The most important are\n\n\nIt is possible, and often desirable, for one and the same insurance contract to combine different classes of insurance.\n\nThe most fundamental distinction between various insurance contracts is that between indemnity insurance and what is usually called non-indemnity insurance, but which is here referred to as \"capital insurance.\"\n\nIn the case of indemnity insurance, the contract between the parties provides that the insurer must indemnify the insured for patrimonial loss suffered as the proximate result of the occurrence of the event insured against. It is uncertain whether the event insured against (like fire or theft, for example) will actually occur, but it obviously must before loss can be quantified.\n\nIn the context of indemnity insurance, examples of insurable interests include\n\n\nThe purpose of the contract of indemnity insurance is to restore the insured to his position \"quo ante\". Nothing more than patrimonial indemnity may be recovered, as is illustrated by the rules on over-insurance and double insurance. The insured is not entitled to make a profit out of his loss. It is accordingly said that the principle of indemnity governs indemnity insurance.\n\nIn the case of capital or non-indemnity insurance, the insurer undertakes to pay to the insured a specified amount, or periodical amounts, upon the happening of the event insured against: for example, R5,000 if the insured dies or loses a limb. This is generally non-patrimonial loss. On the face of it, the contract does not purport to indemnify the insured against patrimonial loss.\n\nAccording to traditional perceptions, the interests amenable to capital insurance are limited in number. The best examples of insurable interests are the unlimited interest a person has\n\n\nA person may also have a moral or emotional interest in the life, health and body of his spouse.\n\nCapital insurance, then, depends on an event that invariably relates to the person of the insured or a third party.\n\nThe types of events which are open to capital insurance are likewise limited in number. Typical events are\n\n\nInsurance against other events must therefore take the form of indemnity insurance. A contract operating on the person of the insured or third party is not necessarily a contract of capital insurance, however, because it could have been the intention of the parties to conclude a pure contract of indemnity insurance.\n\nIn the case of capital insurance, there is certainty that event insured against will occur (whereas in the case of indemnity insurance there is no such certainty), but the timing is uncertain. The amount is determined at time of the issuing of the policy, and is not related to loss suffered.\n\nThe difference between indemnity and capital insurance must be taken to lie in the nature of the interest that is the object of the insurance:\n\n\nThe law determines which interests may be insured in terms of an indemnity-insurance contract. The same holds good for capital insurance.\n\nImportant consequences are attached to the distinction between indemnity and capital insurance. Capital insurers, for example, are not entitled to claim a proportionate contribution by other insurers, or to demand subrogation of the insured's rights in respect of the loss. By the same token, the doctrine of imputation of benefits does not apply to capital insurance.\n\nA distinction between short-term and long-term insurance is embodied in the definitions under the Insurance Acts.\n\nLong-term insurance business means the business of providing policy benefits under defined long-term policies. In terms of section 1 of the Long-term Insurance Act, “long-term policy” means an assistance policy, a disability policy, a fund policy, a health policy, a life policy or a sinking fund policy, or a contract comprising a combination of any of those policies. It also includes a contract whereby any such contract is varied. (See also the definition of “Health Policy” to distinguish from short-term insurance.)\n\nShort-term insurance business refers to the business of providing policy benefits under defined short-term policies. Under the terms of section 1 of the Short-term Insurance Act, “short-term policy” means an engineering policy, a guarantee policy, a liability policy, a miscellaneous policy, a motor policy, an accident and health policy, a property policy or a transportation policy, or a contract comprising a combination of any of those policies. The definition also includes a contract whereby any such contract is renewed or varied.\n\nThe division of insurance business into short- and long-term insurance business is for administrative purposes. Most short-term insurance is indemnity insurance, but short-term insurance is not restricted to indemnity insurance, since an \"accident and health policy\" belongs to the class of capital insurance. Long-term insurance, by the same token, is not confined to capital insurance, because \"fund insurance\" appears to be a case of indemnity insurance.\n\n\"In the final analysis,\" writes Reinecke, \"the real difference between long-term and short-term insurance is not clear.\"\n\nThe basis of contractual liability, where the parties to a contract do not misunderstand each other, is \"consensus ad idem animo contrahendi\". In those exceptional cases in which the parties misunderstand each other and only apparent consent exists, liability appears to rest on the reasonable reliance by the contracting party on the existence of consensus. This is known in contract law as the reliance theory. Such consent may be termed “constructive consent.” Of course, there is always room also for the application of the doctrine of estoppel, if a litigant can satisfy its more stringent requirements, and if he wishes to avail himself of this remedy in order to hold a party bound to the appearance of consensus he has created. For a contract as such to exist, however, actual or constructive consent must be achieved. This is brought about by offer and acceptance.\n\nThese general principles of the law of contract in South Africa also hold good for contracts of insurance, and must be applied to such contracts.\n\nIt is sometimes maintained that a contract of insurance comes into existence as soon as the parties have agreed upon every material term of the contract they wish to make, such as\n\n\nThis suggests that the parties need not agree on terms other than material terms. For their contract to qualify as one of insurance, the parties must agree on the essentials of insurance. If they do not reach specific agreement, there can be no contract of insurance (although another type of contract may come into existence).\n\nFor the contract to be valid, however, the parties must in fact agree on every term each of them regards as being a non-severable part of the proposed contract. This requirement is subject only to the ordinary rules creating contractual liability despite the absence of consensus. As a rule, the parties to a contract of insurance do not apply their minds to each specific term; they contract on the basis of the insurer's usual terms for the particular type of risk to be insured against.\n\nThe contract of insurance comes into being only when consensus is reached. Until then, the anticipated contract does not provide cover, although the eventual contract may operate retrospectively. Pending the conclusion of their negotiations, the parties often conclude interim insurance to cover the proposer during the period prior to the final decision on the main contract. Interim-insurance cover is provided by means of a contract, and therefore also rests on consensus.\n\nMany facets of insurance business, including the conclusion of contracts, are transacted through insurance agents representing the respective parties. If, during the conclusion of the contract, a party is represented by an agent with authority to enter into the contract on behalf of his principal, the intention and acts of the agent must be taken into consideration in deciding whether a contract has come into existence.\n\nIn \"British Oak Insurance v Atmore\", the locus classicus, the \"essentialia\" of a contract of insurance were enumerated as follows:\n\n\nNo specific formalities are required, but the regulations to the Short Term Insurance Act contain certain requirements for the purposes of issuing a policy.\n\nThe policy document normally contains the contract.\n\nIn general, insurers do not make binding offers to insure; rather, they invite the public (by invoking the aid of intermediaries or otherwise) to apply for insurance. The actual offer to contract is accordingly made by the proposed insured, almost invariably on a printed form issued by the insurer and completed or signed by the proposer.\n\nAs formulated by insurers, this proposal form does not usually leave much room for bargaining between the parties. What bargaining there is usually is confined to matters which cannot be settled in advance, such as the amount of the insurance, the period of insurance and special circumstances relating to the risk. Occasionally the proposed insured may request a deletion or addition: for example, by way of endorsements, to be effected in respect of the insurer's standard form of contract.\n\nThe premium is not normally recorded in the proposal form. Most other terms of the proposed contract are also not expressly stated, the intention being to contract on the usual terms of the insurer. In determining the usual terms of the insurer, evidence of other policies issued by the insurer is admissible. Once a reference to the usual terms is included in the contract, the insured actually agrees to them; he cannot afterwards be heard to say that he did not have the opportunity to ascertain the exact content of the terms.\n\nThe proposal form invariably contains a series of questions put by the insurer which must be answered to obtain information necessary for calculating the risk. Apart from being a formal offer, the proposal form is therefore also a written record of representations made by the proposer. Generally, the proposer is required\n\n\nThere is a duty of disclosure, in other words.\n\nThe proposal is normally incorporated into the formal insurance contract by reference.\n\nAlthough the above procedure represents the general position, consent may be achieved in any way the parties choose. For example,\n\n\nIf a proposal form submitted to the insurer has not been authorised by the prospective insured, it may not serve as an offer by him. A policy issued by the insurer in response to such an unauthorised offer may, however, itself constitute an offer to be accepted by the proposed insured.\n\nIt is also possible that the proposal by the prospective insured is not acceptable to the insurer as it stands, but that the insurer is willing to contract on other terms. In such a case, a counteroffer may be made by the insurer. It may also happen that the insurer makes the offer from the outset, as in the case of coupon insurance or interim insurance.\n\nAcceptance of an offer is an express or tacit statement of intention in which the offeree signifies his unconditional assent to the offer. In principle, the offeror must be notified of the offeree's decision to accept the offer. The insurer, as offeree, usually accepts the offer by sending to the proposer a policy accompanied by a covering letter which explains that the proposal has been accepted.\n\nDispatching the policy is in itself sufficient to communicate acceptance. A demand for the premium by the insurer, and, in exceptional circumstances, receipt of the premium, may also operate as an acceptance. A firm acceptance of a proposal may even be contained in an interim cover note, although such a note is generally an acceptance of a proposal for temporary cover only.\n\nContracts of insurance need not be in writing to be valid, but the standard practice is to reduce them to writing. A document expressing the terms of a contract of insurance is called a \"policy.\"\n\nA “premium” is primarily a sum of money. According to one Roman-Dutch authority, a premium may also consist in something other than money. If this were indeed the position, \"it is rather strange that there was no discussion of the contingency that the premium may be defective.\"\n\nIt has also been suggested, for modern law, that the definition of \"premium\" should be widened so as to encompass something other than money: \"Although there is no objection in principle to the enforceability of such contracts, it is doubtful whether there is any need to bring a contract involving a non-monetary 'premium' under the umbrella of insurance.\" No judicial preference has as yet been expressed. The term “premium” is defined in insurance legislation, but the definition there does not shed any light on the nature of a premium.\n\nIt sometimes takes a considerable time to finalise the preliminaries for the conclusion of a contract of insurance. In order to protect the proposed insured during the interval before the issue of a final policy, the parties frequently resort to temporary or interim insurance to cover the proposer immediately but for a limited period of time. This is common practice in the case of short-term insurance contracts, but it may be invoked in all other forms of insurance.\n\nAlthough limited in duration, interim insurance is nothing less than a fully-fledged contract of insurance. This being so, the proposed insured must observe the usual duty of good faith towards his insurer. Similarly, the contract must comply with all the requirements for the validity of insurance contracts in general.\n\nThe contract of interim insurance is separate from and independent of the final contract of insurance following on the conclusion of an interim contract, although it may share some or most of the terms of the final contract. If a claim arises during the currency of the interim contract, it must be considered in terms of the interim contract itself, not in terms of the final contract. This may be of importance where only the final contract, not the interim contract, is voidable because of a misrepresentation or other unlawful conduct, and also where the terms of the two contracts differ.\n\nGranting insurance cover by way of interim insurance does not oblige the insurer to provide permanent cover. By the same token, the person enjoying interim cover is not compelled to accept permanent cover from the insurer merely because he has accepted interim cover.\n\nThe interim insurance contract is usually embodied in a document which is commonly known as a “cover note,” but other expressions--“protection note,” “interim policy,” “temporary policy” and, inappropriately, “interim receipt”—occur as well.\n\nTemporary insurance is sometimes granted in terms of a reminder to renew an existing insurance contract, and can be encountered in various other types of documents. Whether a document recording the terms of an interim contract of insurance may be regarded as the exclusive memorial of such a contract depends on the intention of the parties.\n\nA cover note may not normally be regarded as a “policy” in the ordinary sense of the word. Nonetheless, the definitions of the various “policies” in the Long-term Insurance Act, and in the Short-term Insurance Act, are wide enough to include cover notes and all other like documents recording insurance cover.\n\nThe insured must prove that an insurable interest existed in order to prove loss. The test is whether the insured will incur financial loss, or will fail to derive an anticipated financial benefit, if the event insured against occurs. In principle, the object of insurance must be in existence at the time of the occurrence of the peril insured against. If the insured has no interest at the time of the occurrence of the event insured against, he cannot suffer any loss or damage. Since the function of insurable interest is to determine whether the insured has suffered a loss, the insured's interest, by virtue of the terms of the contract, must exist at the time of the materialisation of the peril insured against. If the insured does not possess an interest at that crucial time, there is no object secured by the insurance. Consequently, the insured can bring no claim under the contract for loss suffered.\n\nIf the insured does not have an insurable interest in the object, the contract will be void and unenforceable, and regarded essentially as a gamble or wager. The purpose of the requirement of insurable interest is to distinguish insurance from wagering. The basic principle of insurance is to protect against loss; it is not concerned with the creation of opportunities for speculative gain. In the formative days of insurance law, things were quite different; insurance was in fact often indistinguishable from gambling. Excesses led in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries to the outright banning of life insurance, for example, in France, the Dutch Republic and Sweden. The more reasonable course, requiring an insurable interest as a prerequisite for the purchase of insurance, was pioneered in England, making insurance more than a mere game of chance, improving the repute of the insurance industry (formerly frowned upon as an aleatory contract), and gaining wider acceptance for it. As we have seen, South Africa formally imported the doctrine of insurable interest from England, but in 1977 the legislature repealed the colonial ordinances which had achieved this. The Appellate Division, in \"Mutual and Federal v Oudtshoorn Municipality\", took their repeal to mean that the Roman-Dutch law of insurance is now the common law for insurance.\n\nIt should be noted that “there is no South African statute which lays down the need for a so-called insurable interest,” and that Roman-Dutch law had no discrete doctrine of insurable interest. It could be said to be implied, however, by the fact that Roman-Dutch law defined a contract of insurance as one which transfers a risk threatening the patrimony of the insured. Roman law also banned wagers.\n\nWhether or not an indirect economic interest is enough to constitute an insurable interest, as opposed to a mere wager, will depend on the facts of each case.\n\nIn \"Littlejohn v Norwich Union Fire Insurance Society\", a husband had taken out fire insurance in his own name over the contents of a shop owned by his wife. (They were married out of community of property.) The court found that he had an insurable interest, because he would obviously be in a worse position, in patrimonial terms, after his wife's property was burnt.\n\nIn \"Phillips v General Accident Insurance\", the court held that a husband had an insurable interest in his wife's jewellery, even though he was under no obligation to replace it.\n\nIn \"Refrigerated Trucking v Zive NO\", the owner of a vehicle was found to have an insurable interest in sustaining insurance for liability incurred by persons who drove his vehicles with his consent.\n\nIn \"Lorcom Thirteen v Zurich Insurance\", the bases for Lorcom's insurable interest in the “Buccaneer” fishing vessel were as follows:\n\n\nBelow are some further examples of insurable interest:\n\n\nInsurance contracts may endure for a definite or indefinite period. Usually the duration is stipulated in the insurance contract or policy document. The contract may terminate or be cancelled, as the case may be,\n\n\nThe doctrine of disclosure is based on the general doctrine of good faith. Usually there is a “declaration” at the end of the proposal form that the answers to the questions in the proposal form are the basis of the policy. The proposer is usually required to warrant the truth of the answers. The proposal is incorporated by reference into the formal policy.\n\nThe insurer has a right to avoid liability on the contract if the proposer misrepresents a material fact, or if he fails to disclose a material fact. In other words, a breach of the duty of good faith renders the contract voidable at the instance of the insurer, after he has been notified of the non-disclosure.\n\nBoth positive and negative misrepresentation are recognised as grounds for avoiding the insurance contract.\n\nTo be unlawful or wrongful, the statement which constitutes a positive misrepresentation must be wholly false, or at least inaccurate. Whether a statement is false or inaccurate will, in the final analysis, have to be judged according to the convictions of the community. This is the general criterion for establishing wrongfulness.\n\nIf the statement is wholly false and thus completely untrue, the issue is relatively simple. If, for example, a proposer for motor-vehicle insurance states in answer to a question in a proposal form that he has not been involved in an accident during the past three years, whereas in fact he has, the statement is obviously wholly false. The same may be said of a statement in a proposal for fire insurance that the premises to be insured are occupied by a particular person, whereas they are not; or that no proposal for similar insurance has been declined in the past, whereas in fact it has.\n\nThe position is not always so straightforward. A statement may, for instance, be inaccurate because it is incomplete and so mislead the other party to the contract by the suppression of a part of the true facts. Thus, in answer to the question of whether or not a proposal or insurance has ever been declined or cancelled, a proposer may state that no proposal has ever been declined, thereby telling the truth, but omitting to say that a contract has been cancelled. This is a substantially inaccurate statement, in spite of the fact that it is literally and completely true as far as the declining of a proposal is concerned.\n\nIf, in answer to the question of whether or not proposals have been made to other insurers, a proposer answers, “Yes, to the XYZ Company,” while he has also submitted proposals to a number of other insurance companies, the answer may be said to be partially true but substantially inaccurate. Likewise, a simple and unqualified request for particulars of previous losses, claims or insurance contracts means in principle that all such particulars are to be furnished. A proposer is expected to answer questions not only accurately, but as completely as is reasonable according to the convictions of the community.\n\nA negative misrepresentation, or a misrepresentation \"per omissionem\", is a wrongful failure by one of the parties to a contract of insurance to disclose, during the course of the negotiations preceding the contract, certain facts within his knowledge. As a result, the other party is induced to enter into the contract, or to agree to specific terms thereof, whereas he would not have done so had those facts been disclosed. The failure may be accompanied by fault; it may even be completely innocent.\n\nIt is the nature of the act or conduct involved which distinguishes this type of misrepresentation from positive misrepresentation. Although it may also by typified as a statement of fact, the act creating the wrong impression is not a positive one; it is negative, in that it fails to remove an existing wrong impression by not disclosing facts which would remove that impression. The failure or omission may take the form of active concealment—that is, it may be intention—or inadvertent non-disclosure, which means that it may be negligent or even innocent.\n\nThe distinction between a positive misstatement and a negative non-disclosure is not always clearcut. In many instances, the same conduct may qualify as both. A failure to state all the material facts in answer to a question may amount to both a negative and a positive misrepresentation, inasmuch as the incomplete answer may create the impression that all the facts have been furnished.\n\nIn modern case law and literature, insurance contracts have been classified as contracts “of the utmost good faith” (contracts \"uberrimae fidei\"). In general, contracts of this type have been said to impose a duty on the contracting parties to display the utmost good faith towards one another\n\n\nThe duty of utmost good faith (or its companion, an exceptionally high degree of good faith) appears in the case law and literature in connection with contracts which are typified by a relationship of close trust between the contracting parties.\n\nThe notion of utmost good faith, and the view that the insurance contract, or for that matter any other contract, may be a contract of the utmost good faith, was rejected in \"Mutual and Federal v Oudtshoorn Municipality\". Acknowledging that the origin of the phrase “\"uberrima fides\"” was doubtful, but noting that it apparently made its appearance in English law in 1850, the court was “unable to find any Roman-Dutch authority in support of the proposition that a contract of marine insurance is a contract \"uberrima fidei\"”. The court rejected the expression as “alien, vague [and] useless [... and] without any particular meaning in law,” explaining\n\n\nDespite these remarks, and despite the fact that the House of Lords has subsequently, with reference to them, noted that “the concept of \"uberrima fides\" does not appear to have derived from civil law and [that] it has been regarded as unnecessary in civilian systems,” Reinecke observes that \"old habits die slowly,\" and that insurance contracts are still occasionally referred to as \"contracts of the utmost good faith.\" This usage, he urges, \"must be deprecated,\" at least insofar as it suggests that the distinction between utmost good faith and good faith involves a difference of principle rather than merely one of degree.\n\nContracts of insurance, like all other types of contract, are therefore contracts of good faith. The feature of good faith is not an essential or distinguishing feature of the insurance contract.\n\nDespite rejecting the notion of utmost good faith, the court in \"M&F v Oudtshoorn\" did not set out the content of the requirement of good faith as it pertains to insurance contracts. Accordingly, past authority which dealt with the content of the notion of utmost good faith must still be consulted for guidance, while bearing in mind that, in principle, any duty concerned is not a duty of exceptional good faith, but simply one of good faith.\n\nThe facts of \"M&F v Oudtshoorn\" were these: A light aircraft collided with pole carrying electric power lines just outside the boundary of the Oudtshoorn aerodrome. The owner of the aircraft successfully sued the Municipality for the value of the aircraft. The Municipality tried to recover the amount from its insurers (Mutual and Federal), but the insurers successfully resisted the claim: When the policy had been negotiated, the Municipality had failed to disclose the close proximity of the aerodrome to pole and power lines, which constituted a hazard to aircraft using the aerodrome at night.\n\nThe court held that there is a duty on the insured and the insurer to disclose to each other, prior to the conclusion of the contract of insurance, every fact relative and material to the risk or to the assessment of the premium. The duty of disclosure relates to material facts, of which parties had actual or constructive knowledge prior to the conclusion of the contract of insurance. Breach of the duty of disclosure amounts to \"mala fides\" or fraud, and the aggrieved party may avoid contract.\n\nA representation relating to material facts cannot be wrongful. The test for materiality is, in principle, an objective test. In \"M&F v Oudtshoorn\", the Appellate Division formulated it thusly: whether or not, having regard to the circumstances, the undisclosed information is reasonably relevant to the risk, or to the assessment of the premium. In other words, are the facts of such a nature that knowledge of them would, objectively seen, probably influence a represent in deciding whether or not to conclude the contract, and on what terms to do so? The question, then, is a question of the effect of the non-disclosure: Would disclosure influence\n\n\nIf the answer is in the affirmative, the undisclosed information or facts are material. The court applies a version of the reasonable-person test: that is, whether a reasonable person would have regarded the particular facts as relevant to the decision of an insurer concerning the assessment and underwriting of the risk. Some decisions use the standard of the reasonable insurer, others the reasonable proposer. Reinecke argues that the two are not incompatible: \"A single combined test for materiality would be whether, according to the opinion of a reasonable person in the position of the particular proposer for instance, the facts in point are likely to influence the decision of a reasonable insurer when it comes to assessing the risk.\"\n\nAccording to \"M&F v Oudtshoorn\", the \"reasonable man test\" is applied to determine whether or not, from the point of view of the reasonable man, or of the average prudent person, the undisclosed facts or information is reasonably relative to the risk or the assessment of the premium. The test, then, refers to those facts which are objectively and reasonably related to an insurer's decision when all the circumstances of the case are taken into account.\n\nIn terms of section 59(1)(b) of the Long-Term Insurance Act, and section 53(1)(b) of the Short-Term Insurance Act,\n\nThe representation or non-disclosure shall be regarded as material if a reasonable, prudent person would consider that the particular information constituting the representation or which was not disclosed, as the case may be, should have been correctly disclosed to the insurer so that the insurer could form its own view as to the effect of such information on the assessment of the relevant risk.\n\nIt is, according to the Appellate Division in \"President Versekeringsmaatskappy v Trust Bank\", a matter of perspective. The question is not whether a reasonable person would regard the information as affecting the risk, but whether a reasonable person would have considered that the information should be disclosed so that the insurer could take it into account and come to its own decision concerning the risk.\n\nThe contract is voidable at the instance of the insurer if the insurer can prove\n\n\nThe duty to disclose includes\n\n\nIt has been said that the duty in question \"is a duty to disclose, and you cannot disclose what you do not know,\" and that the \"obligation to disclose, therefore, necessarily depends on the knowledge you possess.\" This implies that the duty imposed is merely to disclose facts already within that party's knowledge; apparently, on this dictum, it does not include an obligation to collect information so as to become able to disclose it.\n\nSouth African law, however, long appeared to favour the view that only material facts within one's actual or personal knowledge were included in the duty of disclosure. In \"M&F v Oudtshoorn\", however, the court stated in passing that constructive knowledge—that is to say, knowledge which is imputed or presumed—is also included in the duty of disclosure.\n\nKnowledge is constructive, and is imputed to an insured,\n\n\nReinecke considers that \"this broad view of the duty of disclosure may arguably extend it unjustifiably and impose an unreasonable burden on the insured.\"\n\nIn \"Anderson Shipping v Guardian National Insurance\", a vehicle owned by Anderson Shipping was involved in an accident with another vehicle, whose owners claimed damages from Anderson Shipping. The driver of Anderson Shipping's vehicle had previously been found guilty of driving under the influence of alcohol. Guardian National Insurance denied liability on the basis that Anderson Shipping had failed to disclose that its procedure for employing drivers did not require applicants to produce their drivers’ licenses for inspection.\n\nThe question to be answered was whether Anderson Shipping had constructive knowledge of the undisclosed fact. It was argued\n\n\nThe court rejected both arguments and held\n\n\nAlthough, then, the Appellate Division in \"Anderson Shipping v General National Insurance\" refrained from deciding the point, it assumed that an insured (at least, a corporate insured like Anderson Shipping) should be deemed to know every circumstance which, in the ordinary course of business, ought to be known by it.\n\nInformation that could affect the insurer's decision—whether or not to enter into the contract of insurance, or to charge a higher premium—may include the following:\n\n\nThe insurance record of the proposer may also be salient.\n\nNon-material facts include\n\n\nIn \"Qilingele v South African Mutual Life\", an applicant for life insurance did not want to undergo a medical examination. To avoid it, he applied for three separate life-insurance policies with three insurance companies for small amounts which, when added together, would otherwise have required him to undergo a medical examination. Asked in a proposal form whether any other insurance company was considering offering him life cover, he falsely answered, “No.” The applicant also signed a warranty that he had not made any other application to any other insurer.\n\nThe court considered whether the falsehood of the misrepresentation was such that it probably would have affected the assessment of the risk undertaken by the particular insurer. This was done by comparing an assessment of the risk on the basis of facts distorted by the misrepresentation with what the assessment would have been on the facts had they been truly stated. The court found that the disparity would be significant if the insurer, had it known the truth,\n\n\nIn \"Fine v General Accident Fire & Life Assurance\", one question on the proposal form was this: “Has the insurance now proposed been declined in any other office?” The proposer answered, “No”—even though a fire policy over the same property had been issued, and subsequently cancelled, by another insurance company. The statement that the proposed insurance was literally correct, but the insurance company repudiated the claim based on a breach of the duty to disclose material facts. The court held that the cancellation of a previous policy is indeed a material fact that the insured should disclose, since it might well influence the insurer in deciding whether or not it will take the insurance risk, and at what premium.\n\nIn \"Commercial Union v Lotter\", the buyer of a luxury motor vehicle did not disclose to the insurer that the vehicle had been stolen from another country. When the vehicle was stolen again, the insurance company repudiated the claim. The court upheld the company's repudiation on the basis that material facts had not been disclosed. The insurance company argued that its right of subrogation was diminished by the fact that the vehicle in question was a stolen vehicle when the insurance policy was taken out: The insured had no title to the vehicle, so the insurance company could not sue a negligent third party, in terms of its right of subrogation, for the full costs of repairing any damage to the vehicle.\n\nIn \"Santam v Van Schalkwyk\", a father in Kroonstad lent his son in Florida the deposit for a motor vehicle. The father took out an insurance policy, the car was subsequently stolen, and the insurer repudiated due to father's failure to disclose\n\n\nThe court held that a proposer has a legal duty to disclose to his insurer all facts within his knowledge which a reasonable person would consider material to the assessment of the risk or the premium. On the facts, and in the opinion of a reasonable person, the undisclosed information would have impacted the risk assessment. Expert evidence was led to show that the risk of theft was much greater in Florida than in Kroonstad.\n\nIn \"Mutual & Federal v Da Costa\", an insured vehicle was described as a “1991 model Mercedes Benz 230E,” when in fact it was a built-up vehicle consisting of a combination of a 1998 model Mercedes Benz 200 and a 1990 model Mercedes Benz 230. Da Costa claimed indemnification under his insurance policy, but Mutual & Federal argued that it was liable under the policy only for a car that matched the description contained in the policy; the mismatch, according to the insurance company, amounted to a material misrepresentation or non-disclosure.\n\nThe SCA found that, without any evidence on materiality, a court could assume that a misstatement of the year of manufacture of a motor vehicle is \"per se\" a material misstatement. The SCA did allow for an exception, however: A misstated fact will be taken as a material fact, without any evidence having been led on the point, if the “facts speak for themselves.” The court held that the present dispute was not such a case, and therefore found for Da Costa.\n\nIn \"AA Mutual Life v Singh\", the policy in question was a ten-year endowment policy, coupled with life cover. AA advertised the policy as including “free life cover [...] available free of medical evidence [...] no medical questions whatsoever.” AA instructed its brokers to market the policy on this basis, and to sell it to applicants who were actively engaged in their usual occupations and fit enough to lead normal lives. AA's broker told Singh, the insured \"in casu\", that she did not have to disclose anything about her health, and that the proposal form which she signed did not require her to provide medical details. AA subsequently sought to avoid liability on the ground that the insured had failed to disclose that she was suffering from cervical cancer. The court held that AA had waived any right which it had to have the insured's state of health disclosed.\n\nInsurance warranties are strict contractual undertakings by the insured\n\n\nNo particular formal or technical wording is required to establish a warranty. There are, however, a few general requirements. In order to establish that a term in an insurance contract is an insurance warranty, it must be proved\n\n\nBoth these requirements for an insurance warranty may be reconciled with the requirements laid down by the law of contract for other, non-insurance warranties.\n\nAccording to English insurance law, a term will qualify as an insurance warranty only if it is a \"vital term,\" entailing a right to cancel. English law in this respect is at variance with the South African law of contract, according to which non-vital terms may also qualify as warranties. Nevertheless, it is the English view that has been received in the South African case law on insurance.\n\nA term may be \"vital,\" first and foremost, because of the importance of its subject matter. If the subject matter of a term in an insurance contract is material to the assessment of the risk, it will be regarded as a vital term, and may, therefore, qualify as a warranty. Breach of a vital term will amount to a serious form of positive malperformance, justifying cancellation of the contract.\n\nIn the case of affirmative warranties, the insured warrants the truth of a representation relating to the present or the past. Affirmative warranties may be sub-divided into\n\n\nWarranties of fact have the effect of warranting that a state of affairs either does or does not exist, irrespective of insured's knowledge thereof.\n\nA warranty of knowledge is a guarantee that, to the insured's knowledge, a state of affairs does or does not exist. Forgetfulness would not necessary excuse the insured; he must apply his mind.\n\nWarranties of opinion should be distinguished from warranties of fact and knowledge. In the case of warranties of opinion, the insured provides estimates or other information typical of an opinion. Where a proposer for insurance in respect of a stack of hay stated that the stack was estimated to yield a certain quantity of wheat and chaff, and warranted his answers, the court held that he did not warrant that the stack would in fact yield the quantities stated, and that the insured did not commit a breach of warranty if his estimate was fair and reasonable. The insured, in other words, did not warrant the existence of certain facts, or his knowledge concerning such facts; he gave a warranty only in respect of his opinion.\n\nIt is not always easy to determine whether a warranty relates to a state of affairs (and thus to a fact), or to the insured's opinion about certain matters. Ultimately, it depends on how the question is construed. A tendency identified on the part of English courts has been to treat questions apparently eliciting the insured's opinion as demanding statements of fact; the same appears true of local decisions.\n\nPromissory warranties are also known (more correctly, since all warranties are promissory, involving as they do a promise or obligation to perform) as “continuing warranties.” They are undertakings by the insured pertaining to his future conduct during the period of the insurance policy. In \"Cole v Bloom\", the insurer avoided liability in respect of a policy containing a promissory warranty that all doors, windows and roofs of a salesman's vehicle (used to convey samples) would be closed and locked when the vehicle was left unattended.the courts apply the strict approach when it comes to promissory warranties as they are not governed by the statute of Insurance Act.\n\nBreach of a warranty amounts to breach of contract. The burden of proof lies with the insurer. Breach of warranty is irreversible; it cannot be undone by subsequent conduct. It is important to distinguish between relative and absolute warranties. This amounts to an issue of interpretation.\n\nRelative warranties are general in their content; they are not specific statements of what is required of the insured. The “reasonable person” is used as a yardstick to measure the insured's conduct in relation to an alleged breach of warranty. An example of a general warranty is the \"iron-safe clause,\" which is frequently included in fire-insurance policies. In terms of an iron-safe clause, the insured warrants that he will keep a complete set of books, showing a true and accurate record of all business transactions and stock-in-hand, and that the books will be locked in a fire-proof safe or removed to another building at night and at all times when the premises are not open for business. In \"Kliptown Clothing v Marine & Trade Insurance\" the plaintiff, a retail general dealer, obtained a burglary policy from the defendant. Subsequently, the plaintiff suffered burglaries. In an action claiming a declaration that the defendant was obliged to make good the loss, Marine & Trade Insurance pleaded breach by the plaintiff of a warranty\n\nthat the insured keeps, and during the whole of the currency of the policy shall keep, a complete set of books, accounts and stock sheets or stock books, showing a true and accurate record of all business transactions and stock in hand, and that such books, accounts and stock sheets or stock books shall be locked in a fire-proof safe or removed to another building at night and at all times when the premises are not actually open for business.\n\nMarine & Trade Insurance alleged\n\n\nThe Appellate Division held that the warranty meant\n\n\nAs the defendant had failed to prove either a general breach of the warranty arising out of what the plaintiff had failed to keep in a safe, or a particular breach based on the recording in the books of the purchase of certain articles, the court found for the plaintiff.\n\nAbsolute warranties provide a specific or express indication of what is required of the insured, who must comply exactly; if he does not, breach of the warranty will occur. “Substantial performance” is not enough; there must be exact performance. In \"Jordan v New Zealand Insurance\", for example, the plaintiff had stated, in the proposal form for the insurance of a motor car, his age at his next birthday as twenty-two, when in fact it would be twenty-three. The court held that there was no room for the contention that the incorrectness of the answer was not material; nor was there any room for the application of the doctrine of \"substantial performance\" in considering the truthfulness or otherwise of the answers.\n\nThe insured may have the following defences against a claim that he has breached a warranty:\n\n\nIn principle, the same remedies exist for breach of warranty as exist for breach of any contract. One must, however, distinguish the effects of breach of warranty from those of breach of contract through misrepresentation:\n\n\nThe strict common-law approach, which requires exact performance of an undertaking that has not necessarily been established as a “material” aspect of the contract (and risk assessment), and entitles the insurer to cancel a contract on the basis of a breach of warranty despite the fact that the representation complained of concerns an immaterial inaccuracy, or a matter with no bearing at all on the risk insured against, has led to absurd results in some cases. \"Jordan v New Zealand\", discussed above, is one such example: Jordan stated that his age at his next birthday would be twenty-two, whereas in fact it would be twenty-three. Since this statement was warranted, the insurer was entitled to repudiate liability, in spite of what most would regard as the immateriality of the inaccuracy, and where, in fact, it \"was actually to the advantage of the insurer.\"\n\nAs a result of such absurd results, and the potential for more, statutory reform introduced certain curtailments regarding remedies for breach of warranties. Section 63 of the Insurance Act (the governing legislation at the time) was amended in 1969. The effect of the amendment was that the insurer was not permitted to set aside a contract on the grounds of breach of an affirmative warranty unless the insurer could prove that the correctness of the statement (or representation or warranty) was material to the assessment of the risk at the time the policy was issued or renewed. The purpose of the amendment was to protect the insured against repudiations by insurers based on inconsequential inaccuracies or trivial misstatements in insurance proposal forms, even if they were warranted to be true.\n\nIn 1989, the Insurance Act of 1943 was repealed. Its section 63(3) was re-enacted, without any amendment as to substance, in section 59(1)(a) of the Long-term Insurance Act and section 53(1)(a) of the Short-term Insurance Act, which provided\n\n\non account of any representation or failure to disclose information made to the insurer which is not true, whether or not the representation or disclosure has been warranted to be true and correct, unless that representation or non-disclosure is such as to be likely to have materially affected the assessment of the risk under the policy concerned at the time of its issue or at the time of any renewal or variation thereof.\n\nThe Act tries to prevent insurers from exploiting warranties made by the insured in order to avoid paying out on claims. The Act is intended to ensure that an insurer will have no remedy on account of an immaterial incorrect representation, whether that representation was warranted or not.\n\nThe insurer is now still liable to pay out on a claim if the breach of warranty relates only to inconsequential inaccuracies. The insurer is not liable, however, if the breach of warranty relates to facts that are material to the risk. The test for misrepresentation will apply:\n\n\nInstead of “warranties,” the Acts use the expressions “representations,” “non-disclosure” and “failure to disclose.” The meaning of these words is important:\n\n\nIf, then, the warranty is not based on a “representation,” or “failure to disclose” or “non-disclosure,” the insurer will still be able to avoid liability under the contract.\n\nAs a general rule, the words “representation,” “failure to disclose” and “non-disclosure” refer to existing facts as well as to future events.\n\nThe controversy of granting damages for misrepresentation of a future event has generally been removed by statutory reform. The question of materiality is of assistance here.\n\nSubrogation is the right of the insurer, having indemnified the insured in terms of the policy, to receive the benefit of all the rights of the insured against third parties. The insurer may take charge of litigation against third parties liable for loss to the insured. The proceedings are in the name of the insured, with the insurer as \"dominus litis\". Subrogation, then, is essentially a right of recourse without transfer of rights.\n\nThe objectives of subrogation are as follows:\n\n\nThe following are the requirements of subrogation:\n\n\nThe insurer has a right of recourse against a third party for loss where the insurer has paid the insured the cover for such loss. The insurer may institute a claim against the third party on behalf of the insured as \"dominus litis\".\n\nThe insurer also has a right to information and assistance from the insured, together with a right to preservation of the claim, which usually takes the form of a clause in insurance contracts which requires the insured to take the necessary steps to protect the insurer's right to subrogation (even if the requirements for subrogation have not yet been met in full).\n\nIn \"Commercial Union v Lotter\", the court held that the fact that the insured vehicle was a stolen vehicle compromised the appellant's right of subrogation. Having satisfied the claim of the insured, the insurer was entitled to be placed in the insured's position in respect of all rights and remedies against other parties which were vested in the insured in relation to the subject-matter of the insurance. In a case such as the present, however, where the insured vehicle was a stolen one, an action instituted by Commercial Union (against a negligent third party who had damaged the vehicle) could be successfully resisted on the basis that Lotter (and thus Commercial Union under its right of subrogation) had no title in the vehicle.\n\nSubrogation allows the insured to retain his personal right. This is not the case with cession, which involves a transfer of the right in terms of an actual agreement.\n\nThe effect of this difference or distinction is that, if the insured waives his right to claim against a third-party wrongdoer, the insurer would not be able to claim against the wrongdoer, as the latter is absolved of duty to pay. With cession, in contrast, the insurer acquires all of the rights of the insured to proceed against the third party, and has to sue in its own name.\n\nIf a reinstatement clause exists, and if loss occurs, the insurer has the option either\n\n\nThis election lies entirely with the insurer; the insured has no say in the matter. If the insurer elects reinstatement, it has the further option either\n\n\nWhen the insurer decides to reinstate, it must notify the insured, after which the election is binding; the insurer may not thereafter change its mind. Notice is to be given within the time allowed by the contract, or within a reasonable time:\n\n\nThe insured has a duty to cooperate with the insurer in order to effect the reinstatement. Failure to cooperate would amount to breach of contract (as creditor).\n\nReinstatement may therefore be described as \"direct compensation\", because the purpose of reinstatement is to put the insured in the same or similar position as before the loss occurred.\n\nOne insurance company may purchase insurance from another insurance company for the purposes of risk management. Reinsurance has the effect of transferring the risk—that is to say, the \"insured risk\"—from the insurer to the reinsurer. This allows the insurer to increase its policy limits, taking on a higher risk, since the risk is partly carried by the reinsurer.\n\nThe two main categories of reinsurance arrangements are\n\n\nWithin these two categories, furthermore, there are two main kinds of coverage:\n\n\nBoth facultative and treaty reinsurance can be written on a proportional or non-proportional basis. Both these bases occur in a variety of often highly involved permutations.\n\nFacultative reinsurance is the reinsurance of a particular risk under a single policy (for a single or specific risk). It is facultative in the sense that the reinsurer has the choice to accept or reject the particular risk in question. This type of reinsurance arrangement is \"cumbersome,\" writes Reinecke, because a separate negotiation is required for each separate risk which an insurer wishes to pass on to a reinsurer.\n\nTreaty reinsurance is an arrangement between the insurer and the reinsurer in terms of which the latter agrees to take over all or part of the former's risk of a particular class or description for a specified period of time.\n\nProportional reinsurance, which may arise in both facultative and treaty reinsurance, refers to a \"pro rata\" sharing of risks and losses, and premiums and income, between the primary insurer and the reinsurer.\n\nIn the case of non-proportional reinsurance (or \"excess\" reinsurance), the reinsurer bears that part of insurer's loss which exceeds an agreed threshold, while the insurer retains the risk or loss below the threshold, or else reinsures this with a different reinsurer.\n\nIn respect of the terms and benefit details contained in the reinsurance agreement, the same principles apply as for ordinary insurance contracts.\n\nReinsurance companies may also themselves purchase reinsurance. This is known as \"retrocession.\" The \"retrocessionair\" grants reinsurance to the \"retrocedent.\"\n\nUnder-insurance occurs where the sum insured is less than the amount of the loss that the insured would suffer if the risk should materialise. For example, a house is insured for R100,000, but its market value is R150,000. A person in such circumstances may only recover loss\n\n\nOver-insurance occurs when the sum insured is greater than the loss that the insured would suffer if the risk materialises. For example, a house is insured for R200,000, but its market value is R150,000. Even here, the insured may not recover more than the loss he actually suffers.\n\nIt is possible to insure the same interest against the same risk with two or more insurers. Double insurance does not amount to over-insurance, unless the total of all the insurances is more than the total value of the interest.\n\nIf loss occurs, the insured may choose to recover his entire loss from one insurer, or a proportionate share from each insurer, as long as the total amount claimed is not greater than the loss actually suffered.\n\nMost policies have a “contribution clause,” which means that, if an insurer pays more than its proportionate share to the insured, the insurer has a right to reclaim a contribution from the other insurers. This is because the insurer has the right to pay only its proportionate share of the loss.\n\nInsurance contracts often contain clauses to the effect that the insured must disclose other existing or subsequent policies. In the absence of such a clause, the insured is under no obligation to disclose policies that he may have with other insurance companies.\n\nThe following are the requirements for the insurer's right to contribution:\n\n\nWhere the insurance contracts in a situation of double insurance are virtually identical in all material respects (including the amount insured), loss is to be apportioned equally between the insurers.\n\nWhere the contracts differ only as to the amounts insured, all the amounts must be added up and compared with the amount of the loss. Each insurer is then liable for such a proportion of the loss as the amount underwritten by it bears to the aggregate amount insured by all the contracts.\n\nWhere the contracts differ substantially, there may be complications. One contract may, for example, insure the common object amongst other objects, without apportioning to it a specific amount. Average clauses may also be present.\n\nThe law is silent on the rules governing the apportionment of loss. In practice, negotiation between the parties is necessary.\n\nIn general, civil claims prescribe after three years from when the debt arose.\n\nMost policies contain time-bar clauses, requiring the insured to claim within a fixed period of time after the loss insured against has occurred. If an insurer repudiates liability for a claim, the insured has a specific time period within which to issue summons against the insurer, failing which the insurer will be released from liability: that is to say, the claim against the insurer will prescribe.\n\nThe purpose of time-bar clauses is to provide legal certainty for the insurer. An insurer has an interest in knowing, within a reasonable time after repudiating a claim, whether it will face litigation or not.\n\nIn \"Barkhuizen v Napier\", a short-term insurance policy contained a time-bar clause to the effect that the insurer would not be liable under a claim unless summons was served within ninety days of repudiation of the claim. Summons was served two years after the claim was rejected by the insurer. The Constitutional Court upheld the time-bar clause, but opened the door for these clauses to be scrutinised in future on the basis that they could unfairly discriminate against the insured's right of access to the courts.\n\n“Fairness, justice and reasonableness” is the yardstick by which to determine whether or not a contractual term (including a time-bar clause) should be upheld if such term infringes a constitutional right. In \"Bredenkamp v Standard Bank\", for example, the Supreme Court of Appeal was confronted with a clause in a contract between banker and client entitling the banker unilaterally to cancel the contract for no cause at all, and without hearing the client. The banker subsequently cancelled the contract on the ground that the client posed a risk to the bank's reputation. The court found, relying on \"Barkhuizen\", that the question of the fairness of exercising contractual rights does not arise when it involves no public-policy considerations or constitutional values. The cancellation was therefore not unfair, and the clause was enforceable.\n\nFurthermore, the court in \"Barkhuizen\" held that consideration must be given to those special circumstances when a time-bar clause cannot be complied with by the insured.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29081", "title": "Sovereign immunity", "text": "Sovereign immunity\n\nSovereign immunity, or crown immunity, is a legal doctrine by which the sovereign or state cannot commit a legal wrong and is immune from civil suit or criminal prosecution, strictly speaking in modern texts in its own courts. A similar, stronger rule as regards foreign courts is named state immunity. \n\nIn its older sense, sovereign immunity is the original forebear of state immunity based on the classical concept of sovereignty in the sense that a sovereign could not be subjected without his or her approval to the jurisdiction of another. \n\nThere are two forms of sovereign immunity:\n\n\nImmunity from suit means neither the sovereign/head of state in person nor any \"in absentia\" or representative form of him (nor to a lesser extent the state) can be a defendant or subject of court proceedings, nor in most equivalent forums such as under arbitration awards and tribunal awards/damages. Immunity from enforcement means that even if a person succeeds in any way against their sovereign or state, they and the judgment may find itself without means of enforcement. Separation of powers or natural justice coupled with a political status other than a totalitarian state dictates there be broad exceptions to immunity such as statutes which expressly bind the state (a prime example being constitutional laws) and judicial review.\n\nFurthermore, sovereign immunity of a state entity may be waived. A state entity may waive its immunity by:\n\n\nIn constitutional monarchies the sovereign is the historical origin of the authority which creates the courts. Thus the courts had no power to compel the sovereign to be bound by them as they were created by the sovereign for the protection of his or her subjects. This rule was commonly expressed by the popular legal maxim \"rex non potest peccare\", meaning \"the king can do no wrong\".\n\nThere is no automatic Crown immunity in Australia and the Australian Constitution does not establish a state of unfettered immunity of the Crown in respect of the States and the Commonwealth. The Constitution of Australia establishes items which the States and the Commonwealth legislate on independently of each other, in practice resulting in the States legislating on some things and the Commonwealth legislating on others. In some circumstances this can create ambiguity as to the applicability of legislation where there is no clearly established Crown immunity. The Australian Constitution does however, in s. 109, declare that, \"When a law of a State is inconsistent with a law of the Commonwealth, the latter shall prevail, and the former shall, to the extent of the inconsistency, be invalid.\" Based on this, depending on the context of application and whether a particular statute infringes on the executive powers of the State or the Commonwealth the Crown may or may not be immune from any particular statute.\n\nMany Acts passed in Australia, both at the State or the Federal level, contain a section declaring whether the Act binds the Crown, and, if so, in what respect:\n\n\nWhilst there is no ambiguity surrounding the first aspect of this declaration with respect to binding the Crown with respect to the State in question, there have been several cases in respect of the interpretation of the second aspect extending it to the Crown in its other capacities. Rulings by the High Court of Australia on specific matters of conflict between the application of States laws on Commonwealth agencies have provided the interpretation that the Crown in all of its other capacities includes the Commonwealth, therefore if a State Act contains this text then the act may bind the Commonwealth subject to the s. 109 test of inconsistency.\n\nA landmark case which set a precedent for challenging broad Crown immunity and established tests for the applicability of State laws on the Commonwealth was \"Henderson v Defence Housing Authority\" in 1997. This case involved the arbitration of a dispute between Mr. Henderson and the Defence Housing Authority (DHA). Mr. Henderson owned a house which the DHA had leased to provide housing to members of the Australian Defence Force (ADF). Under the NSW \"Residential Tenancies Act 1997\", Mr. Henderson sought orders from the Residential Tenancies Tribunal to enter the premises for the purposes of conducting inspections. In response, DHA claimed that as a Commonwealth agency the legislation of NSW did not apply to it and further sought writs of prohibition attempting to restrain Mr. Henderson from pursuing the matter further. Up until this point the Commonwealth and its agencies claimed an unfettered immunity from State legislation and had used s. 109 to justify this position, specifically that the NSW Act was in conflict with the Act which created the DHA and s. 109 of the Constitution applied. Mr. Henderson took the case to the High Court and a panel of 7 justices to arbitrate the matter. By a majority decision of 6:1 the court ruled that the DHA was bound by the NSW Act on the basis that the NSW Act did not limit, deny or restrict the activities of the DHA but sought to regulate them, an important distinction which was further explained in the rulings of several of the justices. It was ruled that the NSW Act was one of general application and therefore the Crown (in respect of the Commonwealth) could not be immune from it, citing other cases in which the same ruling had been made and that it was contrary to the rule of law. As a result of this case, the Commonwealth cannot claim a broad constitutional immunity from State legislation.\n\nIn practice, three tests have been developed to determine whether a State law applies to the Commonwealth (and vice versa):\n\n\nIf these three tests are satisfied then the Act binds the Crown in respect of the Commonwealth. It is important to note that in Australia there is no clear automatic Crown immunity or lack of it, as such there is a rebuttable presumption that the Crown is not bound by a statute, as noted in \"Bropho v State of Western Australia\". The Crown's immunity may also apply to other parties in certain circumstances, as held in \"Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v Baxter Healthcare\".\n\nArticle 88 of the Constitution of Belgium states: \"The King’s person is inviolable; his ministers are accountable.\"\n\nAccording to the constitution of Bhutan, the monarch is not answerable in a court of law for\nhis or her actions.\n\nCanada inherited common law version of Crown immunity from British law. However, over time the scope of Crown immunity has been steadily reduced by statute law. As of 1994, section 14 of the \"Alberta Interpretation Act\" stated, \"No enactment is binding on Her Majesty or affects Her Majesty or Her Majesty's rights or prerogatives in any manner, unless the enactment expressly states that it binds Her Majesty.\" However, in more recent times \"All Canadian provinces ... and the federal government (the Crown Liability Act) have now rectified this anomaly by passing legislation which leaves the \"Crown\" liable in tort as a normal person would be. Thus, the tort liability of the government is a relatively new development in Canada, statute-based, and is not a fruit of common law.\"\n\nSince 1918, it has been held that provincial legislatures cannot bind the federal Crown, as Fitzpatrick CJ noted in \"Gauthier v The King\":\n\nIt has also been a constitutional convention that the Crown in right of each province is immune from the jurisdiction of the courts in other provinces. However this is now in question.\n\nLieutenant Governors do not enjoy the same immunity as the Sovereign in matters not relating to the powers of the office. In 2013, the Supreme Court refused to hear the request of former Lieutenant Governor of Quebec Lise Thibault to have charges against her dropped. She was being prosecuted by the Attorney General of Quebec for misappropriation of public funds but invoked royal immunity on the basis that \"the Queen can do no wrong\". As per convention, the court did not disclosed its reasons for not considering the matter. Thibault later petitioned the Court of Quebec for the same motives. Judge St-Cyr again rejected her demand, noting that constitutional law does not grant a lieutenant-governor the same benefits as the Queen and that in her case, royal immunity would only apply to actions involving official state functions, not personal ones. She was eventually declared guilty and sentenced to 18 months in jail but was granted conditional release after serving six months.\n\nChina has consistently claimed that a basic principle of international law is for states and their property to have absolute sovereign immunity. China objects to restrictive sovereign immunity. It is held that a state can waive its immunity by voluntarily stating so, but that should a government intervene in a suit (e.g. to make protests), it should not be viewed as waiver of immunity. Chinese state-owned companies considered instrumental to the state have claimed sovereign immunity in lawsuits brought against them in foreign courts before. China's view is that sovereign immunity is a lawful right and interest that their enterprises are entitled to protect. Some examples of Chinese state-owned companies that have claimed sovereign immunity in foreign lawsuits are the Aviation Industry Corporation of China (AVIC) and China National Building Material.\n\nArticle 13 of the Constitution of Denmark states: \"The King shall not be answerable for his actions; his person shall be sacrosanct. The Ministers shall be responsible for the conduct of the government; their responsibility shall be determined by Statute.\" Accordingly, the monarch cannot be sued in his or her personal capacity. On the other hand, this immunity from lawsuits does not extend to the state as such and article 63 explicitly authorises the courts to judge the executive authority: \"The courts of justice shall be empowered to decide any question relating to the scope of the executive's authority; though any person wishing to question such authority shall not, by taking the case to the courts of justice, avoid temporary compliance with orders given by the executive authority.\"\n\nThe Holy See, of which the current pope is head (often referred to incorrectly as the Vatican or Vatican City State, a distinct entity) claims sovereign immunity for the pope, supported by many international agreements.\n\nIn 2011, the Hong Kong Court of Final Appeal ruled that absolute sovereign immunity applies in Hong Kong, as the Court found that Hong Kong, as a Special Administrative Region of China, could not have policies on state immunity that was inconsistent with China. The ruling was an outcome of the \"Democratic Republic of the Congo v FG Hemisphere Associates\" case in 2011.\n\nThe Democratic Republic of the Congo and its state-owned electricity company Société nationale d'électricité (SNEL) defaulted on payments of a debt owed to an energy company, Energoinvest. During arbitration, Energoinvest was awarded damages against the Congo government and SNEL. This was reassigned by Energoinvest to FG Hemisphere Associates LLC.\n\nFG Hemisphere subsequently learned that the Congo government entered into a separate joint venture with Chinese companies later, in which the Congo government would be paid US$221 million in mining entry fees. As a result, FG Hemisphere applied to collect these fees in order to enforce the earlier arbital award. The Congo government asserted sovereign immunity in the legal proceedings. This was eventually brought to the Hong Kong Court of Final Appeal, when the Congo government fought to overturn an earlier Court of Appeal decision which had ruled that:\n\nThe Hong Kong Court of Final Appeal ruled 3:2 that the Congo government had not waived its immunity in the Hong Kong courts, and that as a Special Administrative Region of China, Hong Kong could not have policies on state immunity that was inconsistent with China's. Therefore, the doctrine of sovereign immunity applied in Hong Kong should be absolute, and may be invoked when jurisdiction is sought in the foreign court in relation to an application to enforce a foreign judgment or arbitral award, or when execution is sought against assets in the foreign state. This means that sovereign states are absolutely immune to the jurisdiction in Hong Kong courts, including in commercial claims, unless the state waives its immunity. In order to waive immunity, there must be express, unequivocal submission to the jurisdiction of the Hong Kong courts \"in the face of the court\". Claimants should establish that the state party has waived their entitlement to immunity at the relevant stage, before proceedings can occur in court.\n\nAccording to article 11 of the Constitution of Iceland the president can only be held accountable and be prosecuted with the consent of parliament.\n\nAccording to Article 361 Constitution of India no legal action in the court of law can be taken against President of India and Governors of states of India as long as that person is holding either office. However, he/she can be impeached and then sued for his/her actions.\n\nIn \"Byrne v Ireland\", the Irish Supreme Court declared that sovereign immunity had not survived the creation of the Irish Free State in 1922, and that accordingly the state could be sued for and held vicariously liable for the acts and omissions of its servants and agents.\n\nAccording to the Constitution, the President of the Italian Republic is not accountable, and he is not responsible for any act of his office, unless he has committed high treason or attempted to subvert the Constitution, as stated in Article 90:\n\nThe Italian Penal Code makes it a criminal offence to insult the honor and prestige of the President (Art. 278), and until 2006 it was an offence to publicly give the President responsibility for actions of the Government (Art. 279 – abrogated).\n\nThe Italian Constitutional Court has declared the partial incompatibility with the Italian Constitution of a law that forced courts to delay all trials against the Italian Prime Minister while he is in office. The revised version says that the trial hearings have to be scheduled in agreement between the Judge and the Government.\n\nIn Malaysia, an amendment to the constitution in 1993 made it possible to bring proceedings against the king or any ruler of a component state in the Special Court. Prior to 1993, rulers, in their personal capacity, were immune from any proceedings brought against them.\n\nSection 308 of the Nigerian constitution of 1999 provides immunity from court proceedings, i.e., proceedings that will compel their attendance in favour of elected executive officers, namely the President and his vice and the Governors of the states and the deputies. This immunity extends to acts done in their official capacities so that they are not responsible for acts done on behalf of the state. However, this immunity does not extend to acts done in abuse of the powers of their office of which they are liable upon the expiration of their tenure. It is important to note that the judiciary has absolute immunity for actions decisions taken in their official capacity.\n\nArticle 5 of the Constitution of Norway states: \"The King's person is sacred; he cannot be censured or accused. The responsibility\nrests with his Council.\" \nAccordingly, the monarch cannot be prosecuted or sued in his or her personal capacity, but this immunity does not extend to the state as such. Neither does immunity extend to the monarch in his capacity as an owner or stakeholder in real property, or as an employer, provided that the suit does not allege personal responsibility for the monarch.\n\nArticle XVI, Section 3 of the Philippines Constitution states: \"The State may not be sued without its consent.\"\n\nThe Spanish monarch is personally immune from prosecution for acts committed by government ministers in the King's name, according to Title II, Section 56, Subsection 3 of the Spanish Constitution of 1978.\n\nAt the time of the June 2014 abdication of King Juan Carlos the Spanish constitution did not state whether an abdicated monarch retains his legal immunity, but the government was planning to make changes to allow this. Legislation has been passed, although unlike his previous immunity, the new legislation does not completely shield the former sovereign. Juan Carlos must answer to the supreme court, in a similar type of protection afforded to many high-ranking civil servants and politicians in Spain. The legislation stipulates that all outstanding legal matters relating to the former king be suspended and passed \"immediately\" to the supreme court.\n\nBy the Constitution of Sri Lanka, the President of Sri Lanka has sovereign immunity (till the period of office).\n\nChapter 5, Article 8 of the Swedish Constitution states: \"The King or Queen \nwho is Head of State cannot be prosecuted for his or her actions. Nor can a Regent be prosecuted for his or her actions as Head of State.\" This only concerns the King as a private person, since he does not appoint the government, nor do any public officials act in his name. It does not concern other members of the Royal Family, except in such cases as they are exercising the office of Regent when the King is unable to serve. It is a disputed matter among Swedish constitutional lawyers whether the article also implies that the King is immune against lawsuits in civil cases, which do not involve prosecution.\n\nIn Singapore, state immunities are codified in the State Immunity Act of 1979, which closely resembles the United Kingdom's State Immunity Act 1978. Singapore's State Immunity Act has phrases identical to that of Section 9 of United Kingdom's State Immunity Act, and does not allow a foreign state, which has agreed to submit a dispute to arbitration, to claim jurisdictional immunity in judicial proceedings relating to the agreed arbitration, i.e. \"where a State has agreed in writing to submit a dispute which has arisen, or may arise, to arbitration, the state is not immune as respects proceedings in the courts in Singapore which relate to the arbitration\".\n\nThe President of Singapore does to a certain extent have sovereign immunity subjected to clause 22k(4). (See Part V under government regarding the President of Singapore)\n\nHistorically, the general rule in the United Kingdom has been that the Crown has never been able to be prosecuted or proceeded against in either criminal or civil cases. The only means by which civil proceedings could be brought were:\n\nThe position was drastically altered by the Crown Proceedings Act 1947 which made the Crown (when acting as the government) liable as of right in proceedings where it was previously only liable by virtue of a grant of a fiat. With limited exceptions, this had the effect of allowing proceedings for tort and contract to be brought against the Crown. Proceedings to bring writs of mandamus and prohibition were always available against ministers, because their actions derive from the royal prerogative.\n\nCriminal proceedings are still prohibited from being brought against Her Majesty's Government unless expressly permitted by the Crown Proceedings Act.\n\nAs the Crown Proceedings Act only affected the law in respect of acts carried on by or on behalf of the British government, the monarch remains personally immune from criminal and civil actions. However, civil proceedings can, in theory, still be brought using the two original mechanisms outlined above – by petition of right or by suit against the Attorney General for a declaration.\n\nThe monarch is immune from arrest in all cases; members of the royal household are immune from arrest in civil proceedings. No arrest can be made \"in the monarch's presence\", or within the \"verges\" of a royal palace. When a royal palace is used as a residence (regardless of whether the monarch is actually living there at the time), judicial processes cannot be executed within that palace.\n\nThe monarch's goods cannot be taken under a writ of execution, nor can distress be levied on land in their possession. Chattels owned by the Crown, but present on another's land, cannot be taken in execution or for distress. The Crown is not subject to foreclosure.\n\nIn United States law, state, federal and tribal governments generally enjoy immunity from lawsuits. Local governments typically enjoy immunity from some forms of suit, particularly in tort.\n\nU.S. sovereign immunity falls into two categories:\nIn some situations, sovereign immunity may have been waived by law.\n\nThe federal government has sovereign immunity and may not be sued in the United States unless it has waived its immunity or consented to suit. The United States has waived sovereign immunity to a limited extent, mainly through the Federal Tort Claims Act, which waives the immunity if a tortious act of a federal employee causes damage, and the Tucker Act, which waives the immunity over claims arising out of contracts to which the federal government is a party. The United States as a sovereign is immune from suit unless it unequivocally consents to being sued. The United States Supreme Court in \"Price v. United States\" observed: \"It is an axiom of our jurisprudence. The government is not liable to suit unless it consents thereto, and its liability in suit cannot be extended beyond the plain language of the statute authorizing it.\" \"Price v. United States\", 174 U.S. 373, 375-76 (1899).\n\nIn \"Hans v. Louisiana\" (1890), the Supreme Court of the United States held that the Eleventh Amendment (1795) re-affirms that states possess sovereign immunity and are therefore generally immune from being sued in federal court without their consent. In later cases, the Supreme Court has strengthened state sovereign immunity considerably. In \"Blatchford v. Native Village of Noatak\" (1991), the court explained that\n\nIn \"Alden v. Maine\" (1999), the Court explained that while it has \nWriting for the Court in \"Alden\", Justice Anthony Kennedy argued that in view of this, and given the limited nature of congressional power delegated by the original unamended Constitution, the court could not \"conclude that the specific Article I powers delegated to Congress necessarily include, by virtue of the Necessary and Proper Clause or otherwise, the incidental authority to subject the States to private suits as a means of achieving objectives otherwise within the scope of the enumerated powers\".\n\nHowever, a \"consequence of [the] Court's recognition of preratification sovereignty as the source of immunity from suit is that \"only\" States and \"arms of the State\" possess immunity from suits authorized by federal law\". \"Northern Insurance Company of New York v. Chatham County\" (2006, emphasis added). Thus, cities and municipalities lack sovereign immunity, \"Jinks v. Richland County\" (2003), and counties are not generally considered to have sovereign immunity, even when they \"exercise a 'slice of state power. \"Lake Country Estates, Inc. v. Tahoe Regional Planning Agency\" (1979). Nor are school districts, per \"Mt. Healthy City School District Board of Education v. Doyle\" (1977).\n\nAdditionally, Congress can abrogate state sovereign immunity when it acts pursuant to powers delegated to it by any amendments ratified after the Eleventh Amendment. The abrogation doctrine, established by the Supreme Court in \"Fitzpatrick v. Bitzer\" (1976), is most often implicated in cases that involve Section 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment, which explicitly allows Congress to enforce its guarantees on the states.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "368586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=368586", "title": "Speaker (politics)", "text": "Speaker (politics)\n\nThe speaker of a deliberative assembly, especially a legislative body, is its presiding officer, or the chair. The title was first used in 1377 in England.\n\nThe speaker's official role is to moderate debate, make rulings on procedure, announce the results of votes, and the like. The speaker decides who may speak and has the powers to discipline members who break the procedures of the chamber or house. The speaker often also represents the body in person, as the voice of the body in ceremonial and some other situations. The title was first recorded in 1377 to describe the role of Thomas de Hungerford in the Parliament of England.\n\nBy convention, speakers are normally addressed in Parliament as 'Mister Speaker', if a man, or 'Madam Speaker', if a woman. In other cultures other styles are used, mainly being equivalents of English \"chairman\" or \"president\". Many bodies also have a speaker \"pro tempore\" (or deputy speaker), designated to fill in when the speaker is not available.\nThe Speaker of the House of Representatives is the presiding officer of the Australian House of Representatives, the lower house of the Parliament of Australia. The President of the Senate is the presiding officer of the Australian Senate, the upper house of the Parliament.\n\nParliamentarism in Italy is centered on the Presidents of the two Houses, vested in defense of the members and of the assembly as a whole; so \"the Speaker invites the representative of the Government not to deviate from the rules of parliamentary behavior\". Now constitutional community highlights changes also in this role.\n\nIn Canada, the Speaker of the House of Commons is the individual elected to preside over the House of Commons, the elected lower house. The speaker is a Member of Parliament (MP) and is elected at the beginning of each new parliament by fellow MPs. The Speaker's role in presiding over Canada's House of Commons is similar to that of speakers elsewhere in other countries that use the Westminster system. The Speaker does not vote except in the case of a tie. By convention, if required to vote, the Speaker will vote in favour of continuing debate on a matter, but will not ultimately vote for a measure to be approved.\n\nThe Speaker of the Senate of Canada is the presiding officer of the Senate of Canada, the appointed upper house. The Speaker represents the Senate at official functions, rules on questions of parliamentary procedure and parliamentary privilege, and presides over debates and voting in the \"Red Chamber\". The Speaker of the Senate is appointed by the Governor General of Canada from amongst sitting senators upon the advice of the Prime Minister. The Speaker has a vote on all matters. In the event of a tie, the matter fails.\n\nAt the provincial level, the presiding officer of the provincial legidslatures is called the \"Speaker\" in all provinces except Quebec, where the term \"President\" is used. The presiding officer fulfills the same role as the Speaker of the House of Commons.\n\nIn Singapore, the Speaker of the Parliament of Singapore is the head officer of the country's legislature. By recent tradition, the Prime Minister nominates a person, who may or may not be an elected Member of Parliament (MP), for the role. The person's name is then proposed and seconded by the MPs, before being elected as Speaker. The Constitution states that Parliament has the freedom to decide how to elect its Speaker.\n\nWhile the Speaker does not have to be an elected MP, they must possess the qualifications to stand for election as an MP as provided for in the Constitution. The Speaker also cannot be a Cabinet Minister or Parliamentary Secretary, and must resign from those positions prior to being elected as Speaker.\n\nThe Speaker is one of the few public sector roles which allow its office-holder to automatically qualify as a candidate in the Singapore presidential elections.\n\nThe Speaker is the individual elected to preside over the elected House of Commons. The speaker is a Member of Parliament (MP) and is elected at the beginning of each new parliament by fellow MPs.\n\nThe Lord Speaker is the presiding officer of the House of Lords. The commonly used \"Speaker of the House of Lords\" is not correct. The presiding officer of the House of Lords was until recently the Lord Chancellor, who was also a member of the government (a cabinet member) and the head of the judicial branch. The Lord Chancellor did not have the same authority to discipline members of the Lords that the speaker of the Commons has in that house. The Lord Speaker is elected by the members of the House of Lords and is expected to be politically impartial.\n\nBoth chambers of the United States Congress have a presiding officer defined by the United States Constitution. The Speaker of the United States House of Representatives presides over the lower house of Congress, the House of Representatives, while the Vice President of the United States formally presides over the upper house, the Senate. In practise, the Vice President does not have a day presence in Congress given their responsibilities in the Executive branch, and in their absence, the role is delegated to the most Senior member of the majority party, the President pro tempore of the United States Senate.\n\nIn the forty-nine states that have a bicameral legislature, the highest position in the lower house is usually called the \"speaker\". In Nebraska—the only state with a unicameral legislature—the senators elect one senator to serve as \"Speaker of the Nebraska Legislature\". In Tennessee, the senators elect a \"Speaker of the Senate\" who presides over the Tennessee Senate and serves as lieutenant governor.\n\nThe presiding officer for an upper house of a bicameral legislature usually has a different title, although substantially the same duties.\n\nWhen the upper house is called a senate, the equivalent title is often President of the Senate. Australia, Chile, the United States and many other countries have upper houses with presiding officers titled \"president\". In several American republics, the vice president of the country serves as the president of the upper house.\n\nThis pattern is not universal, however. Some upper houses, including those of Canada, have a speaker.\n\nThe Presiding Officer of the National Assembly for Wales, Presiding Officer of the Scottish Parliament, and Presiding Officer of the Northern Ireland Assembly fulfill the same role as the speaker.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2143870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2143870", "title": "Swiss nationality law", "text": "Swiss nationality law\n\nSwiss citizenship is the status of being a citizen of Switzerland and it can be obtained by birth or naturalisation.\n\nThe Swiss Citizenship Law is based on the following principles:\n\nSwiss nationals are citizens of their municipality of origin, their canton of origin, and the Confederation, in that order: a Swiss citizen is defined as someone who has the bourgeoisie of a Swiss municipality (article 37 of the Swiss Federal Constitution). They are entered in the family register of their place of origin. The manner by which a Swiss citizen acquires their place of origin differs depending on whether they acquired Swiss citizenship by filiation (jus sanguinis), ordinary naturalisation, or facilitated naturalisation. Marriage has in and of itself no effect on the places of origin of the spouses \n\nA child is Swiss at birth if:\nA child of a Swiss father not married to the mother is considered Swiss by birth when a link of paternity is declared; any children of that child also acquire Swiss citizenship by filiation.\nThe child of two Swiss citizens who are married at the time of the child's birth acquires the places of origin of the parent whose surname the child acquires.\n\nA foundling acquires Swiss citizenship and the citizenship of the canton in which they are found. The canton decides which place of origin the child receives. Once paternity is determined, the child loses Swiss citizenship, unless this would leave him or her stateless.\n\nA child adopted by a Swiss parent acquires the place of origin of the Swiss parent, thereby acquiring Swiss nationality.\n\nOrdinary naturalisation in Switzerland is a cantonal competency but regulated by federal legislation. \nOn 20 June 2014, the two Chambers of the Swiss Parliament passed the Total Revision of the Federal Law Concerning the Acquisition and Loss of Swiss Nationality (\"Révision totale de la loi sur l'acquisition et la perte de la nationalité suisse\"). The Law, first introduced in 2011 by the Swiss federal government, aimed to lower, among other requirements, the residency requirement from 12 years to 8 years. During the parliamentary debates and the ensuing disagreements between the more conservative National Council (lower house) and the more liberal Council of States (upper house), the residency requirement was increased to 10 years. The time spent in Switzerland between the ages of 8 and 18 is doubled when counted for purposes of applying for naturalisation, however, an applicant must have spent at least 6 years in Switzerland. The law also requires cantons to set a minimum residency requirement of between 2 and 5 years, as well as requiring applicants to have a permanent residency permit (Autorisation d'établissement), which is commonly referred as a C permit. Additionally, time spent in Switzerland with temporary admission (\"Permis d'admission provisoire\") is halved counting the years spent in Switzerland for the purposes of naturalisation. The 2014 Total Revision of the Federal Law Concerning the Acquisition and Loss of Swiss Nationality entered into force on 1 January 2018.\nApplications for naturalisation submitted prior to the entry into force of the new nationality law will continue to be processed under the 1952 law.\nThe federal nationality law of 2014 imposes two formal conditions which an applicant for naturalisation must satisfy:\n\nIn addition to the aforementioned formal conditions, the federal nationality law of 2014 also imposes material conditions which an applicant for naturalisation must meet:\n\nCantons can impose further requirements which are complementary to the federal requirements.\n\nForeigners in the following categories may apply for simplified naturalisation:\n\n\nA person married to a Swiss citizen may apply for Swiss citizenship by facilitated naturalisation after living in Switzerland for five years and having been married for at least three years. No language test is required, but one must show the following:\n\n\nChildren from the person's previous relationships (but not same-sex couples) are given citizenship along with the partner.\n\nIt is also possible for the spouse of a Swiss citizen to apply for facilitated naturalisation while residing overseas after the following:\n\n\nSpouses acquiring Swiss citizenship by facilitated naturalisation will acquire the citizenship of the place and canton of origin of their Swiss spouse.\n\nThe federal constitution declares that the Confederation will facilitate the naturalisation of third generation immigrants (Art. 38 §3 part a). Legislation has yet to be introduced describing the precise requirements for an application for facilitated naturalisation under article 38 §3 part a.\n\nThe Canton of Vaud legislated in 2004 to allow for second-generation foreigners to acquire Swiss nationality more easily under the following conditions:\n\nThe 2004 law also facilitates the naturalisation of foreigners of the 3rd generation under the following conditions:\n\nThe yearly rate of naturalisation has quintupled over the 1990s and 2000s, from roughly 9,000 to 45,000 naturalisations per year.\n\nRelative to the population of resident foreigners, this amounts to an increase from 8% in 1990 to 27% in 2007, or relative to the number of Swiss citizens from 0.16% in 1990 to 0.73% in 2007.\n\nForeigners in the following category can apply to have their nationality restored:\n\nFormal conditions:\n\nA child whose Swiss citizenship depends on paternal links loses citizenship when those are cut.\n\nA Swiss child adopted by foreign parents is considered to have lost Swiss citizenship; if the adoption is subsequently annulled, the loss of nationality is retroactively invalidated.\n\nA Swiss citizen born abroad to at least one Swiss parent and holding at least one other nationality loses Swiss citizenship at age 22 if:\n\n\nEqually, the child of a person who loses Swiss nationality in this manner also loses Swiss nationality.\nExceptionally, a person who has been prevented, against their will, from taking the necessary actions to retain Swiss citizenship may undertake the required actions within a delay of 1 year following the cessation of such hindrances.\n\nEach municipality in Switzerland maintains its own registry of citizens, which is separate from the registry of people living in the municipality. Many Swiss citizens do not live in their place of origin; therefore, they are often required by the municipality in which they live to get a certificate of citizenship (\"acte d'origine/Heimatschein/atto d'origine\") from their place of origin. The constitution forbids discrimination based on one's place of origin, with the exception of bourgeoisies.\n\nAccording to the Federal Office for Migration, there has been no restriction on multiple citizenship in Switzerland since 1 January 1992. Thus, foreigners who acquire Swiss citizenship and Swiss citizens who voluntarily acquire another citizenship keep their previous citizenship (subject to the laws of the other country), as was the case before this date. An estimated 60% of Swiss nationals living abroad in 1998 were multiple citizens.\n\nSince many nationality laws now allow both parents to transmit their nationality to their common child (and not only the father, as used to be often the case), many children automatically acquire multiple citizenship at birth. This is especially frequent in Switzerland, since a relatively high proportion of the population holds a foreign passport (up to 54% in Geneva and 20% nationally). However, the Federal Office for Migration specially notes that this has not resulted in any practical problems worth mentioning. Military service, the most likely problem to arise, is usually done in the country where the applicant resides at the time of conscription.\n\nEven though Swiss nationality law permits multiple citizenship, a Swiss national who also holds another country's citizenship may be required to renounce the foreign citizenship, under the foreign country's nationality law.\n\nAfter two referendums rejected laws to facilitate naturalisation in September 2004, some opponents (notably the Swiss People's Party) attempted to return to the pre-1992 situation, in which multiple citizenship was forbidden.\n\nSwiss citizenship laws have been widely debated over recent years. In comparison to other nationality laws, access to Swiss citizenship is relatively narrow and restricted, and several modifications to widen access to Swiss citizenship via constitutional initiatives and referendums have been proposed. The referendums on the matter – held in 1983, 1994, and 2004 – were all rejected by Swiss voters. In particular, during the referendum held in September 2004, Swiss voters rejected proposals to give some long-resident Swiss-born persons aged between 14 and 24 the right to apply for \"facilitated\" naturalisation (which bypasses cantonal and municipal requirements) and grant automatic Swiss citizenship to persons born in Switzerland with a parent also born in Switzerland.\n\nWhile minimal requirements for obtaining Swiss citizenship by naturalisation are set at the federal level, Swiss cantons and municipalities are free to introduce more stringent requirements. Some municipalities had previously had no procedure for allowing naturalisations, effectively rendering it impossible, such as in La Chaux in the Canton of Vaud. In 1999, the municipality of Emmen and the canton of Lucerne began using referendums to decide the outcome of naturalisation requests. The practice was ruled unconstitutional by the Supreme Court in July 2003. A referendum directed at legalizing this practice was rejected on 1 June 2008.\n\nSwiss citizens are entitled to\n\nMale Swiss citizens, including dual citizens, can be required to perform military service or civilian service (women can do it voluntarily). Male citizens who do not complete their military service or who do not do civilian service must pay a supplementary tax. Swiss citizens are not allowed to work for a foreign (non-Swiss) military, unless they are a citizen of - and are resident in - the country in question. The Swiss Guards of the Vatican State are regarded as a house policy, not as an army.\n\nVisa requirements for Swiss citizens are administrative entry restrictions by the authorities of other states placed on citizens of Switzerland. In May 2018, Swiss citizens had visa-free or visa-on-arrival access to 185 countries and territories, ranking the Swiss passport 5th in the world according to the Visa Restrictions Index.\n\nThe Swiss nationality is ranked ninth, together with Ireland, in The Quality of Nationality Index (QNI). This index differs from the Visa Restrictions Index, which focuses on external factors including travel freedom. The QNI considers, in addition, to travel freedom on internal factors such as peace & stability, economic strength, and human development as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33888614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33888614", "title": "T.H. Marshall's Social Citizenship", "text": "T.H. Marshall's Social Citizenship\n\nT. H. Marshall's Social Citizenship is a political concept first highlighted in his essay, “Citizenship and the Social Class” in 1949. \n\nMarshall's concept defines the social responsibilities the state has to its citizens or, as Marshall puts it, “from [granting] the right to a modicum of economic welfare and security to the right to share to the full in the social heritage and to live the life of a civilized being according to the standards prevailing in the society”. One of the key points made by Marshall is his belief in an evolution of rights in England acquired via citizenship, from “civil rights in the eighteenth [century], political in the nineteenth, and social in the twentieth”. This evolution however, has been criticized by many for only being from the perspective of the white working man. Marshall concludes his essay with three major factors for the evolution of social rights and for their further evolution, listed below: \nMany of the social responsibilities of a state have since become a major part of many state’s policies (see United States Social Security). However, these have also become controversial issues as there is a debate over whether a citizen truly has the right to education and even more so, to social welfare.\n\n“Neo-Liberal (Free-Market) ideology [asserts] that state abstention from economic protection is the foundation of a good society”, thus they are diametrically opposed to the social rights proposed by Marshall. Neo-liberals instead suggest that welfare programs (some of the social responsibilities discussed by Marshall to help the poor “effectively utilize their civil and political rights”), have “promoted passivity among the poor, without actually improving their chances, and created a culture of dependency”. They instead suggest (and have implemented) welfare requiring fulfillment of obligations.\n\nProponents of social citizenship are very critical of the Neo-Liberal ideology, suggesting that it is an “assault on the very principle of citizenship”, and that the Neo-Liberal institution of fulfillment of obligations as requirement for citizenship, because they suggest that citizenship is inherent and that “that is only appropriate to demand fulfillment of the responsibilities after the right to participate is achieved”.\n\nSome feminist scholars argue that Marshall’s essay only reflects the perspective of working class white males. His assertion that in England all people were free and had civil rights is false, as only men had any “legal freedom” or ability to exercise political or civil rights. Thus, they argue that Marshall fails to discuss the issue of second-class citizens and that “he takes for granted the gender and racial hierarchies” within society is a fundamental flaw in his work. \n\nHowever, while Marshall did not discuss the problems associated with having second-class citizenry, he did acknowledge that “citizenship itself [has] functioned as an architect of social inequality”. Additionally, many feminists see the expansion of social rights as an inherently good thing, especially as today; women in many countries have the same civil and political rights as men. And, feminists see social rights as giving an opportunity to many women to utilize their civil and political rights (just as Marshall suggests white men in England in the 1940s are able to do). Especially as current free-market solutions “[embrace’] a racialized, genderized, and class-biased vision of social equity and community solidarity that favors the interests of the most privileged members of society”. Without resources, traditional hierarchies, with white men at the top, are unable to be combated.\n\nNancy Fraser and Linda Gordon in the essay “Contract versus Charity: Why is there no Social Citizenship in the United States?” expanded on T. H. Marshall's original proposition to look at how gender inequality has led to a dismissal of social citizenship within the United States. They argue that, because men were more powerful in civil society, within the “male sphere” “contractual relations dominated”, especially in regards to work with wage contracts. Gradually, the male sphere began to dominate more and more of human relations, and thus contractual relations encroached on more and more areas. Because of “the hegemony of contract… a specifically modern conception of ‘charity’” was generated as a “complementary other.” Thus, welfare and helping the unfortunate became seen as a form of charity, rather than as an obligation. Because of this viewpoint, the receivers of charity were stigmatized for not “earning” the charity. \nFraser and Gordon also offer a solution to allowing social citizenship to gain popularity within the United States. They suggest that concentrating the focus of civil citizenship from “property-centered to a more solidaristic form” would allow citizens to reestablish ties with their community, something they believe is essential for citizens to have in order to believe in welfare and social citizenship as a whole.\n\nT.H. Marshall published his essay in 1949 and it has had a huge impact on many of the citizen debates which have followed it. Though the original essay fails to view perspectives other than that of a working class white male, social citizenship not only can be but has been applied to myriad peoples. The United States has become disillusioned by the idea of social citizenship, but many industrialized states view social citizenship as their responsibility, even providing welfare outside of their own borders. Marshall’s articulation of the idea of social citizenship was vital to the idea’s proliferation.\n"}
{"id": "57392260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57392260", "title": "Taxation in Ukraine", "text": "Taxation in Ukraine\n\nThe organization responsible for tax policy in Ukraine is the State Fiscal Service, operating under the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. Taxation is legally regulated by the Taxation Code of Ukraine. The calendar year serves as a fiscal year in Ukraine. The most important sources of tax revenue in Ukraine are unified social security contributions, value added tax, individual income tax. In 2017 taxes collected formed 23% of GDP at 969,654 million UAH.\n\nIndividual Income Tax is derived from income of Ukraine citizens and other individuals living in the country. Liability to personal income tax is mainly determined by criterion of residency. A person who is tax resident in Ukraine is required to pay personal income tax from his worldwide income, which is also called unlimited liability. Tax residency is determined by several factors, if an individual carries out one of them, they are considered tax resident. The conditions are following: residency in Ukraine, permanent residency in Ukraine in case of living in another country, location of centre of vital interest in case of having permanent residency in more than one country and location, where individual resides at least 183 days in a year, in case none of the above is applicable. A person who is not considered resident, have only limited liability, so they have to pay taxes only from their incomes in Ukraine. Individual income tax in Ukraine is proportional tax. It can be 0%, 5%, 9%, 18% and it depends on type of income. For example tax rate for employment income is 18%. In some cases rate of the tax depends on status of the taxpayer. For instance income from selling real estate, is taxed at a rate of 5% for residents and 18% for non-residents. In addition, on every individual’s income, which is taxable by Individual Income Tax, there is also imposed military tax, whose tax rate is 1.5%.\n\nThe rates of inheritance and gift tax in Ukraine depends on tax residency status of testate/giver and inheritor/recipient. In the case of gift tax, there are 4 options. If the recipient is a resident of Ukraine and first civil degree relative of giver, who is also resident of the country, the tax rate is 0%. If the recipient is resident and giver is resident and anyone but first civil degree relative, the tax rate is 5%. If the recipient is resident and giver is non-resident, the tax rate is 18%. If recipient is non-resident and receives some possession in Ukraine, the tax rate is also 18%. In every case recipient also have to pay military tax, which is at 1.5%, as on every other taxable income.\n\nIn case of Corporate Income Tax, taxation again depends on residency status. To be considered resident, legal entity must be registered in Ukraine and it must operate under Ukrainian laws. If these conditions are met, the legal entity is considered resident and their tax base for Corporate Income Tax is their worldwide income. Non-residents pay the tax only from income with origin in Ukraine, but not every kind of income is subject to the tax. Permanent establishment of non-residents are considered separate entity.\nTax rate differs between these categories. For residents the tax rate is 18% with few exceptions. For example, insurance companies have to pay 0 to 3% of their income as a special corporate tax, that lowers taxable profit.\n\nValue added tax is levied on production and import of goods and services and the exports. There are 3 rates, at which the tax is paid. The tax rate of most common of them, standard rate, is 20%. There are also two special rates. First of them is 7 % and is levied on pharmaceutics and other healthcare products. The second one is 0% and it is levied on exports and auxiliary services.\n\nExcise duty in Ukraine is mainly imposed on alcohol, tobacco products, motor vehicles and different types of fuels and electricity. For some goods the tax is counted as a percentage of price, in other cases as a price per unit. Sometimes both options can be combined.\n\nThere also several withholding taxes in Ukraine. The tax rate for dividends, royalties and dividends paid to non-residents, both companies and individuals, is 15%. The unified social security contribution that are companies obliged to pay for their employees is equal to 22% of employee’s salary.\n\nReal Estate Tax is composed of 3 parts: land fee, immovable property tax and transport tax. Land fee can be further divided into land tax and land rent. Taxpayers of land tax are owners or users of land, both companies and individuals. Taxpayers of land rent, are renters of the land from state or communities. Land tax rate ranges between 1% and 5% of value of the land. Land rent can be at most 12% of the normative monetary value. Immovable property tax is levied on real estate, both commercial and residential, and it is paid by both companies and individuals. The land is excluded from the tax. The tax rate can be set at most at 1.5% of minimum wage for every square meter of the property.\nOwners of the cars, the value of which is more than 1.2 million UAH and which are used less than 5 years, are required to pay transport tax. The cost is 25 000 UAH for one car.\n\nOther taxes collected in Ukraine include customs taxes, different types of rental duty and environmental tax. Customs taxes are mainly levied on imports and the rates mainly vary between 0% and 10%, although in some cases they can be higher. Rental duty taxes natural resources. Within its scope falls for instance extraction of mineral resources or using of radio sequences. Environmental tax taxes pollutants leaked into water and air and disposal of waste. The rates differ, depending on many different factors.\n"}
{"id": "58061345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58061345", "title": "Transatlantic Commission on Election Integrity", "text": "Transatlantic Commission on Election Integrity\n\nThe Transatlantic Commission on Election Integrity is a bi-partisan initiative by leading figures in politics, tech, media and business from Europe and the US with the aim of addressing the question of foreign interference in elections.\n\nOn the sidelines of the Copenhagen Democracy Summit on June 21st 2018, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, founder of Alliance of Democracies and Michael Chertoff, a former secretary of homeland security in America, launched the Transatlantic Commission on Election Integrity, which has Joe Biden, Nick Clegg, Toomas Ilves, and Felipe Calderón among its members. The Commission is tasked with bolstering the defences of Western democracies against outside interference.\n\nThe Transatlantic Commission on Election Integrity is Transatlantic and bipartisan in nature. It seeks to share lessons learned between decision-makers and institutions in Europe and the US, raise public awareness about the risks of interference while working to develop new models and technologies to empower civil society and governments to defend democracy.\n\nThe Commission aims that over the next 20 elections to be held across EU and NATO countries between 2018 and the next American presidential contest in November 2020, they would advance a more collective approach to tackling election interference. \n\nThe Commission attempts to bridge three critical gaps it has identified as having thus far prevented the West from effectively addressing the challenge: a transatlantic gap; a partisan gap; and the gap between the tech community and the rest of society.\n"}
{"id": "14872715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14872715", "title": "Translating for legal equivalence", "text": "Translating for legal equivalence\n\nTranslating for legal equivalence is the production of translations that are acceptable by a legal jurisdiction.\n\nFor legal and official purposes, evidentiary documents and other official documentation are usually required in the official language(s) of a jurisdiction.\n\nIn some countries, it is a requirement for translations of such documents that a translator swear an oath to attest that it is the legal equivalent of the source text. Often, only translators of a special class are authorized to swear such oaths. In some cases, the translation is only accepted as a legal equivalent if it is accompanied by the original or a sworn or certified copy of it.\n\nEven if a translator specializes in legal translation or is a lawyer in their country, this does not necessarily make them a sworn translator. The procedure for translating to legal equivalence differs from country to country.\n\nIn compliance with Law #20,305, all public documents (including personal papers and some commercial contracts) have to be translated and signed by a certified \"public translator\" (\"traductor público\"), whose seal and signature have to be legalized on each document by the Translators' professional body of their jurisdiction. All private persons, companies, the judiciary and other government departments are subject to this law regarding documents or depositions in a foreign language. In order to be certified as a public translator for a major European language, candidates have to attend university courses leading to the professional degree of \"traductor público\".\n\n\"\"Sworn Translators\" (singular Dutch: beëdigd vertaler, French: traducteur assermenté) or \"Sworn Interpreter\"\" (singular Dutch: beëdigd tolk, French: interprète assermenté) swear an oath before the President of the Court of First Instance of the judicial district in which they have their place of residence. In the past translators and interpreters in all judicial districts aspiring to \"sworn\" status were screened for suitability by the Crown Prosecutor. The candidate has to state the language combinations for he or she wishes to be sworn. A diploma of translator/interpreter is usually regarded as adequate proof of competence. There is no limitation on the language combinations which can be recognized. \n\nHowever, following a scandal involving an illegal immigrant who obtained sworn translator status, The President of the Court of First Instance at Antwerp, launched an experimental scheme whereby aspiring sworn translators and interpreters have to undergo training organized by the Ministry of Justice and submit to examination. The same President, based on his interpretation of the language laws, also ruled that the only language combinations that could be recognized for sworn translator/interpreter status were those in which Dutch was either the original language or the target language. This view has not yet been adopted by other judicial districts in Belgium.\n\nOfficial documents can only be translated by Public Sworn Translators and Interpreters, who are certified and accredited by the registry of commerce of each state. The applicants must pass highly demanding oral and written examinations for specific language pairs. They undergo background checks before receiving a registration number, which must be informed in the heading of every translation. \n\"Ad hoc\" (temporary) translators can also be appointed by the Registry of Commerce to do a single translation job, when there is no Public Translator registered for that specific language pair.\nThe registry of commerce of each state also sets the translation fees. \n\nAlthough the public sworn translator/interpreter must reside in the state of registration, his translations are valid in the entire country. Institutions and government agencies in cities and states different from those of residence of the public sworn translator may require the notarial verification of the translator's signature. \n\nForeign documents must be verified by a Brazilian consulate or embassy in the country they were issued before translation. Official documents translated into a foreign language need to have the public sworn translator's signature verified by the Brazilian Ministry of Foreign Affairs if the institution or government agency of the foreign country so requires.\n\nOfficial translation of documents can be produced in one of two ways. Certified translations are those completed by a certified translator and accompanied by the translator's declaration, signature and seal. The title of \"certified translator\" is a protected title in Canada, and only those individuals who are members in good standing of a provincial translators' association and have passed a certification exam can use this title and produce certified translations. An alternative method for producing official translations in Canada is by attaching a sworn affidavit signed by the translator in the presence of a notary public or commissioner for taking affidavits to the translation.\n\nGerman regional courts (\"Landgerichte\") have the power to appoint \"sworn translators\". The specific title and the appointment procedure are different in each state. In most cases, the candidates are required to pass an examination.\n\nThere are five qualification types for translators and interpreters in Hungary: technical translator, technical translator-proofreader, interpreter, technical interpreter and conference interpreter. These qualifications can be acquired in BA and MA programmes, postgraduate courses and in institutions accredited by the Ministry of Public Administration and Justice.\n\nAnyone regardless of age and qualification may apply for a qualifying examination in interpretation. Qualifications for technical translation, technical translation proofreading, technical interpretation and conference interpretation can be obtained in the following fields: social science, natural science, technology and economics. Anyone with a degree in one of the above fields may apply for a qualifying examination in technical translation and technical interpretation in the given field. Qualified technical interpreters and technical translators may be further qualified for conference interpretation and technical translation proofreading, respectively.\n\nThe National Office for Translation and Attestation (\"Országos Fordító és Fordításhitelesítő Iroda\", OFFI) is a company in Hungary that has the exclusive right to certify translations both from and to Hungarian created by the office itself or a third party, and to make certified copies of documents written in a foreign language. Interpretation in courts of Budapest is provided by OFFI.\n\nIf the Office cannot provide an interpreter, and for courts outside Budapest, an interpreter registered by the local authorities will be appointed. If no official interpreter is available, a suitable person with a good command of the required language will be appointed.\n\nThere is less documentation and sources known. A sworn-in Interpreter or Translator as per Maharashtra Courts Civil Law Chapter 26 of OATHS AND AFFIDAVITS prescribed under section 6 of the Oaths Act, 1969 (point 515) may with help of Form No.3 make an affidavit that he shall well and truly interpret evidences given by witnesses and translate correctly and accurately all documents given to him or her for translation.\n\nIn Indonesia, sworn translators are persons having attended and passed legal translation examination organized by the School of Linguistics and Cultural Sciences, University of Indonesia (FIB, UI). After passing the exam, they will be sworn in by the Governor of DKI Jakarta, provided that they have a Jakarta ID card. For other regions, each has to write to their respective Governor to take oath by their governor, thus obtain the status 'sworn'.\n\nAlternatively, the Association of Indonesian Translators or HPI also have exams for members who wants to have a certification as a competent, professional translator or interpreter. Upon passing, the certification will expire in 5 years.\n\nBoth Italian courts and consulates have the power to appoint as \"official translators\" (\"traduttori giurati\" or \"ufficiali\") candidates who pass an examination or show proof of language proficiency (usually a university degree).\n\nThere are, in Mexico, two certifications for sworn translators: the local certification granted by the Superior Court of Justice corresponding to each of the 32 states and the one of the Superior Court of Justice corresponding to the federation. Both institutions establish that a written and oral examination shall be passed for a translator to be recognized as an expert or \"sworn\" (certified) translator (\"perito traductor\"); this type of translator does not swear before the court to be authorized. Although the local certification is officially valid for only one of the 32 states, a translator from any of the states may work for a client from any of the states, provided that the client accepts the translator.\n\nThe Bureau for Sworn Interpreters and Translators, a department of the Dutch Legal Aid Council that has been entrusted by the Ministry of Justice with various implementation tasks in respect of the Sworn Interpreters and Translators Act. They have two levels of accreditation however only the highest level has legal validity.\n\nCandidates are certified by the Association of Government Authorized Translators, after they pass a very demanding examination. Successful candidates are then authorized by the Norwegian government to sign their translations, after the phrase \"True Translation Certified.\" The Association was founded in 1913.\n\nThe standards of translation in Poland are regulated by a relevant department of the Ministry of Justice, and every translator wishing to provide such services must pass a state examination. Afterwards such a person is entered on an official list, issued with a stamp and recognized as a sworn translator. However, for ordinary translations (business, administration, correspondence) it is enough to have an independent expert in the field.\n\nIn South Africa, the translator must be authorized by the High Court, and must use an original (or a sworn copy of an original) in his physical presence as his source text. The translator may only swear by his own translation. There is no requirement for an additional witness (such as a notary) to attest to the authenticity of the translation.\n\nOnly sworn translators can do a sworn translation in Spain. To become a sworn translator in Spain for a combination of Castilian and another language, the candidate has to be certified by the Spanish Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation as a \"sworn translator and interpreter\" (\"traductor-intérprete jurado\"). Then, the translator is required to register their stamp and signature with the Ministry, who includes the translator's data in a public list of sworn interpreters.\n\nEligibility can be achieved either through a state exam or by completing the degree studies of Translation and Interpretation in a Spanish University, provided that the translator has passed certain law-related subjects.\n\nSworn translators for combinations including the other three co-official languages of Spain (Basque, Catalan and Galician) are certified by regional authorities following a similar procedure as the Spanish Ministry of Foreign Affairs.\n\nThe Legal, Financial and Administrative Services Agency is an official agency that authorizes interpreters and translators, who must pass a stringent examination arranged by the organization. Authorized translators hold a protected professional title, and their translations are considered legal and binding for all legal purposes.\n\nThere is no such thing as a \"sworn translator\" in the UK. However, individual translations may be certified, by a solicitor (or a notary in Scotland), not to guarantee the quality of the translation, but so that the translator can be identified and held accountable.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics states: \"There is currently no universal form of certification required of interpreters and translators in the United States, but there are a variety of different tests that workers can take to demonstrate proficiency.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "65922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65922", "title": "Treaty of Shimonoseki", "text": "Treaty of Shimonoseki\n\nThe was a treaty signed at the Shunpanrō hotel, Shimonoseki, Japan on 17 April 1895, between the Empire of Japan and the Qing Empire, ending the First Sino-Japanese War. The peace conference took place from March 20 to 17 April 1895. This treaty followed and superseded the Sino-Japanese Friendship and Trade Treaty of 1871.\n\nThe treaty ended the First Sino-Japanese War of 1894–1895 as a clear victory for Japan. In this treaty, China recognized the independence of Korea and renounced any claims to that country. It also ceded the Liaodong Peninsula (then known to the Western press as \"Liaotung\", now southern part of modern Liaoning province), and the islands of Formosa (Taiwan) and Penghu (also known as the Pescadores) to Japan. China also paid Japan a war indemnity of 200 million Kuping taels, payable over seven years, and the signing of a commercial treaty similar to ones previously signed by China with various western powers in the aftermath of the First and Second Opium Wars. This commercial treaty confirmed the opening of various ports and rivers to Japanese trade. As a result of the Treaty of Shimonoseki (1895), China recognized the \"full and complete independence and autonomy\" of Joseon. In the next year Yeongeunmun was demolished leaving its two stone pillars.\n\nQing China's indemnity to Japan of 200 million silver kuping taels, or about . After the Triple intervention, they paid another 30 million taels for a total of over silver, worth about $5 billion US Dollars in 2015.\n\nDuring the summit between Japanese and Qing representatives in March and April 1895, Prime Minister Hirobumi Ito and Foreign Minister Munemitsu Mutsu were serious about reducing the power of Qing Dynasty on not only the Korean Peninsula but also the Taiwan islands. Moreover, Mutsu had already noticed its importance in order to expand Japanese military power towards South China and Southeast Asia. It was also the age of imperialism, so Japan wished to mimic what the Western nations were doing. Imperial Japan was seeking colonies and resources in the Korean Peninsula and Mainland China to compete with the presence of Western powers at that time. This was the way the Japanese leadership chose to illustrate how fast Imperial Japan had advanced compared to the West since the 1867 Meiji Restoration, and the extent it wanted to amend the unequal treaties that were held in the Far East by the Western powers.\n\nAt the peace conference between Imperial Japan and Qing Dynasty, Li Hongzhang and Li Jingfang, the ambassadors at the negotiation desk of Qing Dynasty, originally did not plan to cede Taiwan because they also realised Taiwan's great location for trading with the West. Therefore, even though the Qing had lost wars against Britain and France in the 19th century, the Qing Emperor was serious about keeping Taiwan under its rule, which began in 1683. On 20 March 1895, at Shunpanrō () in Shimonoseki in Japan, a one month long peace conference began.\n\nAt the first half of the conference, Ito and Li talked mainly about a cease-fire agreement, and during the second half of the conference, the contents of the peace treaty were discussed. Ito and Mutsu claimed that yielding the full sovereignty of Taiwan was an absolute condition and requested Li to hand over full sovereignty of Penghu Islands and the eastern portion of the bay of Liaodong Peninsula. Li Hongzhang refused on the grounds that Taiwan had never been a battlefield during the first Sino-Japanese War between 1894 and 1895. By the final stage of the conference, while Li Hongzhang agreed to the transfer of full sovereignty of the Penghu islands and the eastern portion of the bay of Liaodong Peninsula to Imperial Japan, he still refused to hand over Taiwan. As Taiwan had been a province since 1885, Li stated, \"Taiwan is already a province, and therefore not to be given away ().\"\nHowever, Imperial Japan was too strong for the Qing Dynasty to cope with, and eventually Li gave Taiwan up. On 17 April 1895, the peace treaty between Imperial Japan and the Qing Dynasty had been signed and was followed by the successful Japanese invasion of Taiwan. This had a huge impact on Taiwan, the turning over of the island to Imperial Japan marking the end of 200 years of Qing rule despite an attempt by Qing loyalists to prevent the annexation.\n\nThe treaty was drafted with John W. Foster, former American Secretary of State, advising the Qing Empire. It was signed by Count Itō Hirobumi and Viscount Mutsu Munemitsu for the Emperor of Japan and Li Hongzhang and Li Jingfang on behalf of the Emperor of China. Before the treaty was signed, Li Hongzhang was attacked by a right-wing Japanese extremist on March 24: he was fired at and wounded on his way back to his lodgings at Injoji temple. The public outcry aroused by the assassination attempt caused the Japanese to temper their demands and agree to a temporary armistice. The conference was temporarily adjourned and resumed on April 10.\n\nThe conditions imposed by Japan on China led to the Triple Intervention of Russia, France, and Germany, western powers all active in China, with established enclaves and ports, just six days after its signing. They demanded that Japan withdraw its claim on the Liaodong peninsula, concerned that Lüshun, then called Port Arthur by Westerners, would fall under Japanese control. Tsar Nicholas II of Russia (a de jure ally of France) and his imperial advisors, including his cousin-advisor-friend-rival Kaiser Wilhelm II of Germany, had designs on Port Arthur, which could serve as Russia's long sought-after 'ice-free' port.\nUnder threat of war from three Western political powers, in November 1895, Japan — a weaker emerging nation not yet perceived as even a regional power — returned control of the territory and withdrew its \"de jure\" claim on the Liaotung peninsula in return for an increased war indemnity from China of 30 million Taels. At that time, the European powers were not concerned with any of the other conditions, or the free hand Japan had been granted in Korea under the other terms of the Treaty of Shimonoseki. This would prove to be a mistake, as Japan would end up occupying Korea by 1905 and expand into Russia's sphere of influence with the Russo-Japanese war, and then encroach upon Germany's port in Shandong during World War I.\n\nWithin months after Japan re-ceded the Liaodong peninsula, Russia started construction on the peninsula and a railway to Harbin from Port Arthur, despite a protesting China. Eventually, Russia agreed to offer a diplomatic solution (See Kwantung Leased Territory) to the Chinese Empire, and agreed to a token lease of the region to save face, instead of annexing Manchuria outright, its de facto effect. Within two years, Germany, France, and Great Britain had similarly taken advantage of the economic and political opportunities in the weak Chinese Empire, each taking control of significant local regions. Japan also took note of how the international community allowed the great powers to treat weaker nation states, and continued its remarkable measures to bootstrap itself into a modern industrial state and military power, with great success as it would demonstrate in the Russo-Japanese War less than a decade later.\n\nIn Taiwan, pro-Qing officials and elements of the local gentry declared a Republic of Formosa in 1895, but failed to win international recognition.\n\nIn China, the Treaty was considered a national humiliation by the bureaucracy and greatly weakened support for the Qing dynasty. The previous decades of the Self-Strengthening Movement were considered to be a failure, and support grew for more radical changes in China's political and social systems which led to Hundred Days' Reform in 1898. When the latter movement failed due to resistance from the Manchu nobility, a series of uprisings culminated in the fall of the Qing dynasty itself in 1911.\n\nThe Triple Intervention is regarded by many Japanese historians as being a crucial historic turning point in Japanese foreign affairs – from this point on, the nationalist, expansionist, and militant elements began to join ranks and steer Japan from a foreign policy based mainly on economic hegemony toward outright imperialism — a case of \"the coerced\" turning increasingly \"to coercion\".\n\nBoth the Republic of China, now controlling Taiwan, and the People's Republic of China, now controlling mainland China consider that the provisions of the treaty transferring Taiwan to Japan to have been reversed by the Instrument of Surrender of Japan. Additionally, it is alleged that on 28 April 1952 the contents of the Treaty of Shimonoseki treaty were formally nullified through what is commonly known as the Treaty of Taipei with the Republic of China. However, argues that only those provisions of the 1895 treaty which had not yet been fulfilled in their entirety could be subject to nullification. The cession provision which had already been carried out was no longer existent and, therefore, could no longer be subjected to nullification. In support of this reasoning, Ng points to the reparations provision of Article IV of the 1895 treaty, as well as additional reparations provisions from earlier Sino-Japanese agreements & treaties. These were all regarded as \"fulfilled provisions\" and not subject to later nullification or cancellation. The People's Republic of China does not recognize the Treaty of Taipei.\n\nRussia wasted little time after the Triple Intervention to move men and materials down into the Liaodong to start building a railroad from both ends — Port Arthur and Harbin, as it already had railway construction in progress across northern Inner Manchuria to shorten the rail route to Russia's principal Pacific Ocean naval base at Vladivostok, a port closed by ice four months of each year. Russia also improved the port facilities at Port Arthur and founded a commercial town nearby at Dalniy (modern-day Dalian, which now encompasses Port Arthur in its jurisdiction), before inking the lease of the territory.\n\nWhen the de facto governance of Port Arthur and the Liaodong peninsula was granted de jure to Russia by China along with an increase in other rights she had obtained in Manchuria (especially those in Jilin and Heilongjiang provinces) the construction of the 550 mile Southern spurline of the Manchurian Railway was redoubled. Russia finally seemed to have gotten what the Russian Empire had been wanting in its quest to become a global power since the reign of Peter the Great. This ice-free natural harbor of Port Arthur/Lüshun would serve to make Russia a great sea as well as the largest land power. Russia needed this ice-free port to achieve world power status as it was tired of being blocked by the balance of power politics in Europe (The Ottoman Empire and its allies had repeatedly frustrated Russian power fruition).\n\nHowever, the omission of the geopolitical reality in ignoring the free hand Japan had been granted by the Treaty (of Shimonoseki) with respect to Korea and Taiwan was short-sighted of Russia with respect to its strategic goals; to get to and maintain a strong point in Port Arthur Russia would have to dominate and control many additional hundreds of miles of Eastern Manchuria (the Fengtian province of Imperial China, modern Jilin and Heilongjiang) up to Harbin. Japan had long considered the lands paralleling the whole Korean border as part of its strategic Sphere of Influence. By leasing \"Liaodong\" and railway concessions, Russia crashed its Sphere of Influence squarely into Japan's.\n\nThis acted as a further goad to emerging Japanese anger at their disrespectful treatment by all the West. In the immediate fallout of the \"Triple Intervention\", Japanese popular resentment at Russia's deviousness and the perceived weakness of its own government caving in to foreign pressure led to riots in Tokyo. The disturbance almost brought down the government, as well as a strengthening of imperial and expansionist factions within Japan. The Russian spear into the sphere also brought about the ensuing struggle with Russia for dominance in Korea and Manchuria. These events eventually led to the Russo-Japanese War of 1904–1905 by a renewed and modernized Japanese military, which led to a major defeat for Russia that marked the beginning of the end for the Romanov dynasty.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3012460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3012460", "title": "Treaty of Wuchale", "text": "Treaty of Wuchale\n\nTreaty of Wuchale (or, Treaty of Ucciale; in Italian, Trattato di Uccialli) was a treaty signed by King Menelik II of Shewa, later the Emperor of Ethiopia with Count Pietro Antonelli of Italy in the town of Wuchale, Ethiopia, on 2 May 1889. The treaty stated that the regions of Bogos, Hamasien, Akkele Guzay, and Serae were part of the Italian colony of Eritrea and is the origin of the Italian colony and modern state of Eritrea. Per the Treaty, Italy promised financial assistance and military supplies.\n\nThe contents of Article 3 of the treaty state the following: \n\nArt. 3. To remove any ambiguity about the limits of the territories over which the two Contracting\nParties shall exercise the rights of sovereignty, a special committee composed of two Italian delegates\nand two Ethiopians will trace on the ground with appropriate signs a permanent boundary line\nwhose benchmarks are established as follows:\n\na) The line of the plateau will mark the Italian-Ethiopian border;\n\nb) Starting from the region Arafali, Halai, Saganeiti and Asmara are villages in the Italian border;\n\nc) Adi Adi Nefas and Joannes will be on the side of Bogos in the Italian border;\n\nd) From Adi Joannes a straight line extended from east to west will mark the border between Italy and Ethiopia.\n\nDisputes over Article 17 regarding the conduct of foreign affairs led to the First Italo–Ethiopian War. The Italian version stated that Ethiopia was obliged to conduct all foreign affairs through Italian authorities, in effect making Ethiopia an Italian protectorate, while the Amharic version gave Ethiopia considerable autonomy, with the option of communicating with third powers through the Italians. The misunderstanding, according to the Italians, was due to the mistranslation of a verb, which formed a permissive clause in Amharic and a mandatory one in Italian.\n\n"}
{"id": "12640235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12640235", "title": "War crimes trial", "text": "War crimes trial\n\nA war crimes trial is the trial of persons charged with criminal violation of the laws and customs of war and related principles of international law committed during armed conflict.\n\nThe trial of Peter von Hagenbach by an ad hoc tribunal of the Holy Roman Empire in 1474, was the first “international” war crimes trials and also of command responsibility. Hagenbach was put on trial for atrocities committed during the occupation of Breisach, found guilty, and beheaded. Since he was convicted for crimes, \"he as a knight was deemed to have a duty to prevent\", although Hagenbach defended himself by arguing that he was only following orders from the Duke of Burgundy, Charles the Bold, to whom the Holy Roman Empire had given Breisach.\n\nIn 1865, Henry Wirz, a Confederate officer, was held accountable and hanged for appalling conditions at Andersonville Prison where many Union soldiers died during the American Civil War.\n\nAfter World War I, a small number of German personnel were tried by a German court in the Leipzig War Crimes Trials for crimes allegedly committed during that war.\n\nArticle 227 of the Treaty of Versailles, the peace treaty between Germany and the Allied Powers after the First World War, “publicly arraign[ed] William II of Hohenzollern, formerly German Emperor, for a supreme offence against international morality and the sanctity of treaties.” The former Kaiser had escaped to the Netherlands, however, and despite demands for his extradition having been made, the Dutch refused to surrender him, and he was not brought to trial. Germany, as a signatory to the treaty, thus was placed on notice as to what might occur in the event of a subsequent war.\nAfter World War II, the phrase referred usually to the trials of German and Japanese leaders in courts established by the victorious Allied nations.\n\nThe most important of these trials were held in Nuremberg, Germany, under the authority of two legal instruments. One, the London Charter was signed by representatives of the United States, Great Britain, France, and the USSR in London on August 8, 1945; the other, Law No. 10, was promulgated by the Allied Control Council in Berlin on December 20, 1945.\n\nThe London Charter provided for the establishment of the International Military Tribunal, composed of one judge and one alternate judge from each of the signatory nations, to try war criminals. Under the London Charter, the crimes charged against defendants fell into three categories: crimes against peace, that is, crimes involving the planning, initiating, and waging a war of aggression; war crimes, that is, violations of the laws and customs of war as embodied in the Hague Conventions and generally recognized by military forces of civilized nations; and crimes against humanity, such as the extermination of racial, ethnic, and religious groups and other such atrocities against civilians.\n\nOn October 8, 1945, Anton Dostler was the first German general to be tried for war crimes by a U.S. military tribunal at the Royal Palace of Caserta in Caserta. He was accused of ordering the killing of 15 captured U.S. soldiers of Operation Ginny II in Italy in March 1944. He admitted into ordering the execution but said that he cannot be held responsible because he was just following orders from his superiors. The execution of 15 U.S. prisoners of war in Italy ordered by Dostler was an implementation of Hitler's Commando Order of 1942 which required the immediate execution of all Allied commandos, whether in proper uniforms or not, without trial if apprehended by German forces. The tribunal rejected the defense of Superior Orders and found Dostler guilty of war crimes. He was sentenced to death and executed by a firing squad on December 1, 1945, in Aversa.\n\nThe Dostler case became precedent for the Nuremberg trials of German generals, officials, and Nazi leaders beginning in November 1945 that using Superior orders as a defense does not relieve officers from responsibility of carrying out illegal orders and liable to be punished in court. This principle was codified in Principle IV of the Nuremberg Principles and similar principle were found in sections of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nOn October 18, 1945, the chief prosecutors lodged an indictment with the tribunal charging 24 individuals with a variety of crimes and atrocities, including the deliberate instigation of aggressive wars, extermination of racial and religious groups, murder and mistreatment of prisoners of war, and the murder, mistreatment, and deportation of hundreds of thousands of inhabitants of countries occupied by Germany during the war.\n\nAmong the accused were the Nationalist Socialist leaders Hermann Göring and Rudolf Hess, the diplomat Joachim von Ribbentrop, the munitions maker Gustav Krupp von Bohlen und Halbach, Marshal Wilhelm Keitel, Grand Admiral Erich Raeder and 18 other military leaders and civilian officials. Seven organizations that formed part of the basic structure of the Nazi government were also charged as criminal. These organizations included the SS (Schutzstaffel, \"Defense Corps\"), the Gestapo (Geheime Staatspolizei, \"Secret State Police\"), and the SA (Sturmabteilung, \"Storm Troops\"), as well as the General Staff and High Command of the German armed forces.\n\nThe trial began on November 20, 1945. Much of the evidence submitted by the prosecution consisted of original military, diplomatic, and other government documents that fell into the hands of the Allied forces after the collapse of the German government.\n\nThe judgment of the International Military Tribunal was handed down on September 30-October 1, 1946. Among notable features of the decision was the conclusion, in accordance with the London Agreement, that to plan or instigate an aggressive war is a crime under the principles of international law. The tribunal rejected the contention of the defense that such acts had not previously been defined as crimes under international law and that therefore the condemnation of the defendants would violate the principle of justice prohibiting ex post facto punishments. As with the Dostler case, it also rejected the contention of a number of the defendants that they were not legally responsible for their acts because they performed the acts under the orders of superior authority, stating that \"\"the true test . . . is not the existence of the order but whether moral choice (in executing it) was in fact possible\".\"\n\nWith respect to war crimes and crimes against humanity, the tribunal found overwhelming evidence of a systematic rule of violence, brutality, and terrorism by the German government in the territories occupied by its forces. Millions of persons were murdered in Nazi concentration camps, many of which were equipped with gas chambers for the extermination of Jews, Gypsies, and members of other ethnic or religious groups. Under the slave-labor policy of the German government, at least 5 million persons had been forcibly deported from their homes to Germany. Many of them died because of inhumane treatment. The tribunal also found that atrocities had been committed on a large scale and as a matter of official policy.\n\nOf the seven indicted organizations, the tribunal declared criminal the Leadership Corps of the National Socialist Party, the SS, the SD (Sicherheitsdienst, \"Security Service\"), and the Gestapo.\n\nIn May 1993, during the Yugoslav Wars following the massive war crimes, and acts of \"ethnic cleansing\" in the former Yugoslavia by Bosnian-Serb forces, the United Nations established the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, to try war criminals of all nationalities. The crimes indicted included grave breaches of the Geneva Conventions, war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide. It was the first international tribunal since the Nuremberg Trials to do so. In 1994, the UN opened the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda following the April–June genocide in that country of Hutu nationals. In the ICTY nearly 161 individuals were indicted: 68% of Serb ethnicity. Croatian-Serb, Bosnian-Serb, Serbian, and Bosnian-Croat officials were convicted of crimes against humanity, and Bosnian-Serb leaders of genocide. It was the first tribunal in which sexual assault was prosecuted as a war crime. The tribunals, while effective in prosecution of individuals, proved to be a costly venture, and exposed the need for a permanent tribunal, which was eventually known as the International Criminal Court.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38685228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38685228", "title": "William O. Douglas Prize", "text": "William O. Douglas Prize\n\nThe William O. Douglas Prize (also known as the William O. Douglas Award) is given by the Commission on Freedom of Expression of the Speech Communication Association to honor those who contribute to writing about freedom of speech. The Award is named after William O. Douglas, who served as an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States from 1939 to 1975.\n\nThe William O. Douglas Prize is given by the Commission on Freedom of Expression of the Speech Communication Association to authors. The prize recognizes distinguished work in the field of writing about the subject of freedom of speech.\n\n\n\n"}
