{"id": "5962470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5962470", "title": "Age of consent reform", "text": "Age of consent reform\n\nAge of consent reform is efforts to change age of consent laws. Proposed reforms typically include raising, lowering, or abolishing the age of consent, applying (or not applying) close-in-age exemptions, changing penalties, or changing how cases are examined in court. A related issue is whether or not to apply ages of consent to homosexual relationships that are different from those applied to heterosexual relationships. Organized efforts have ranged from academic discussions to political petitions.\n\nThere have been many initiatives to raise the age of consent. Gratian, a canon lawyer in the 12th century, stated that consent could not take place before 7 years of age. The English government eventually decided on age of 12 for women as their limitation. At that time, the age was about 12 in most countries. Today it is usually set between 15 and 18.\n\nIn 1275, the age of consent in England was set at 12 (Westminster 1 statute), the first time an age of consent had been set in England. However, in 1875 the Offence Against the Persons Act raised it to 13 in Great Britain and Ireland. The Criminal Law Amendment Act of 1885 raised it to 16. In 1917 a bill raising the age of consent in Great Britain and Ireland from 16 to 17 was defeated by only one vote. In Northern Ireland in 1950 the legislature of Northern Ireland passed a law called Children and Young Persons Act in 1950 that raised the age of consent from 16 to 17. The male homosexual age of consent in the United Kingdom was set at 21 in the Sexual Offences Act of 1967, lowered to 18 in the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994, and then finally lowered equally to 16 in England and Wales and Scotland in the Sexual Offences (Amendment) Act of 2000.\n\nAccording to sociologist Matthew Waites, in the 1970s, a number of grassroots political actions took place in Britain in favor of lowering the age of consent, which he described as based on claims of children's rights, gay liberation, or as a way to avoid unwanted pregnancies or sexually transmitted infections.\n\nIn May 1974, the Campaign for Homosexual Equality suggested a basic age of consent of 16, but 12 \"in cases where a defendant could prove the existence of meaningful consent\". In September 1974, the Sexual Law Reform Society proposed lowering the age of consent to 14, with the requirement that below the age of 18 the burden of proof that consent for sexual activities between the parties existed would be the responsibility of the older participant.\n\nIn 1976, the British political advocacy group the National Council for Civil Liberties (now known as \"Liberty\") published a proposal advocating reducing the age of consent laws to 10 years of age, only when both individuals are younger than 14, with a close-in-age exemption of two years if one of the involved individuals is older than 14 but younger than 16. The report was signed by Harriet Harman, who later went on to become a prominent figure in government and deputy leader of the Labour Party and the focus of media attention due to her affiliations with the NCCL.\n\nRussia in 1998 lowered the age of consent from 16 to 14, but in 2002 raised the age of consent from 14 back to 16. Since then penalties have also generally increased. Vladimir Putin said that a party advocating lowering the age of consent cannot be legally registered (hence, be a legal party) in Russia.\n\nIn January 2004, a Division bench of the Kerala's High Court in Southern India suggested that the age of consent should be raised from 16 to 18 in that state. Justice R. Basant said he considered \"illogic(al)\" that a legal system in which an age of 18 is used for other purposes – like the Indian Majority Act, the Contract Act, the Juvenile Justice Act, the Child Marriage Restraint Act and the Representation of People Act – has a different approach in the case of sexual consent. The age of consent in India was raised from 16 to 18 in 2012.\n\nOver the course of American history, the most commonly observed age of consent was 10 years. In 1880, 37 states had an age of consent of 10 years while 10 states kept an age of consent at 12, and Delaware maintained its age of consent at seven years, having lowered it from 10 in 1871. \n\nIn the late-19th century, a \"social purity movement\" composed of Christian feminist reform groups began advocating a raise in the age of consent to 16, with the goal of raising it ultimately to 18, and by 1920 almost all states had raised their age of consent to 16 or 18.\n\nBy the mid-1970s, there was widespread sympathy among homosexual activist groups for lowering the age of consent for all sexual activities (partially due to the disparate ages of consent for same-sex and opposite-sex sexual activity), with many gay publications freely discussing lowering it for boys. These tensions and antagonisms continued among activist circles until the 1980s; however, since the 1970s, gay liberationist groups promoting frontline advocacy against the age of consent were falling into decline. \n\nA small number of voices continued into the 2000s among self-declared pedophiles on certain internet websites and chatrooms.\n\nTwo final states legislating their ages of consent into the 15–18 range were Georgia and Hawaii, from 14, raised in 1995 and 2001, respectively.\n\nAs of August 1, 2018, the age of consent in each state in the United States was either 16 years of age, 17 years of age, or 18 years of age.\n\nIn 2012, Alabama State Representative Mac McCutcheon sponsored a bill to raise the age of consent from 16 to 18. As of August 2018, the age of consent in Alabama remains 16.\n\nIn 2001, the legislature in Hawaii voted to raise the age of consent from 14 to 16.\n\nIn June 2005, a bill was proposed before the General Assembly of Georgia (USA) to raise the age of consent from 16 to 18. The bill failed, however. \n\nGeorgia was the most notoriously resistant state to raising its age of consent in the early 1900s. Georgia's age of consent was 10 until 1918, and even then the age of consent was only raised to 14. Even after raising the age of consent in 1918, Georgia was still the only state in the United States to have an age of consent lower than 16. Georgia's age of consent remained at 14 until 1995, when a bill proposed by senator Steve Langford to make the age of consent 16 passed. \n\nIn 2006, following the infamous case of Genarlow Wilson (Wilson v. State), aggravated child molestation was reduced to a misdemeanor with a maximum of one year in prison if the offender was under 19, the victim was either 14 or 15 years old, and the offender is no more than 48 months older than the victim. (Georgia penal code, 16-6-4). Previously aggravated child molestation (at any age) carried 10–20 years imprisonment regardless of the age difference between the victim and offender.\n\nIn 2007 in Kentucky Representative JR Gray sponsored legislation in the state legislature that passed making it a felony for a teacher to have sex with a student under the age of 18. He also discussed the possibility of raising the age of consent from 16 to 18 but a bill was not produced for that.\n\nIn 2008 a bill was proposed in the Missouri legislature to raise the age of consent from 17 to 18. It was sponsored by Representative Stanley Cox.\n\nIn South Carolina in 2007 a bill was proposed before the legislature to raise the age of consent from 16 to 18. It did not succeed.\n\nPrior to 1981 Wisconsin had an exception to the law that allowed adults who were guilty of sex with minors 15 or older to use as a defense that the victim understood the nature of the sexual act, but there was a rebuttable presumption in Wisconsin that minors under the age of 18 were not capable of informed consent to sex, but as stated, this could be argued against by the defendant in the court of law if the minor was 15 years of age or older. In 1981 the age of consent was lowered from 18 to 16 in Wisconsin, but at the same time it was made an automatic felony to have sex with anyone under 16, informed consent for a 15-year-old was no longer a defense an adult defendant could use in court. In 1983 the age of consent in Wisconsin was raised from 16 to 18, under the new law sex with a minor 16 or older carried the lesser penalty of a Class A Misdemeanor. A marital exemption was included in the law for an adult who was married to a minor 16 or older, but no close-in-age exception was.\n\nIn June 2006, the Canadian government proposed a bill to raise the age of consent from 14 to 16 (in 1890, it was raised from 12 to 14), while creating a near-age exemption for sex between 14- to 15-year-olds and partners less than 5 years older, and keeping an existing near-age clause for sex between 12–13 year olds and partners less than 2 years older. The initiative also maintains a temporary exception for already existing marriages of minors 14 and 15 years old to adults, but forbids new marriages like these in the future. The law took effect 1 May 2008.\n\nBetween 1990 and 2002, the Netherlands operated what was in effect an age of consent of 12, subject to qualifications. The relevant law, passed in November, 1990, permitted sexual intercourse for young people between 12 and 16, but allowed a challenge by parents based on erosion of parental authority or child exploitation, which would be heard by a Council for the Protection of Children. In 1979, the Dutch Pacifist Socialist Party supported an unsuccessful petition to lower the age of consent to 12.\n\nThe age of consent in Peru was increased from 14 to 18 in 2006 as elections approached, but in 2007, Peru's new Congress voted to return the age to 14 regardless of gender and/or sexual orientation. However, after strong public opposition, the law was raised back to 18 on June 27, 2007, by a vote of 74 to zero (22 abstentions). It was returned to 14 in January 2013.\n\nIn 1977 while a reform in the French penal code was under discussion in the parliament, a petition to decriminalize all consented relations between adults and minors below the age of fifteen was sent to Parliament but did not succeed in changing the law. In 1978 the petition was discussed in a broadcast by radio France Culture in the program \"Dialogues\", with the transcript later published under the title Sexual Morality and the Law in a book by Michel Foucault. The participants, including Foucault, play-writer/actor Jean Danet and novelist/gay activist Guy Hocquenghem had all signed the petition.\n\nSome pedophiles have called to abolish the age of consent to allow adults to have sex freely with prepubescent children, arguing they can consent. Groups advocating pedophilia and the abolishment of age of consent laws include NAMBLA in the United States and Vereniging Martijn in the Netherlands. Several organisations in them have been involved with pro-pedophile activism in the past; only a few of these still exist today.\n\nIn the United States, many states have adopted close-in-age exemptions. These laws, known as \"Romeo and Juliet laws\" provide that a person can legally have consensual sex with a minor provided that he or she is not more than a given number of years older, generally four years or less. Some Romeo and Juliet laws (such as the law in Michigan and Florida) do not make it legal for a person below the age of consent to have sex with a slightly older person, but may exempt the older partner from sex offender registration.\n\nRomeo and Juliet laws were passed in 2007 in Connecticut and Indiana. In Indiana, a change in the law decriminalizes consensual sex between adolescents if they are found by a court to be in a \"dating relationship\" with an age difference of four years or less and other states have adopted other reforms. Michigan passed a Romeo and Juliet Law in 2011.\n\nThese reforms have been controversial. In Texas, Governor Rick Perry vetoed Romeo and Juliet laws that had been passed by the legislature in 2009, but signed one in 2011 to go into effect in September of that year. A 2011 Romeo and Juliet bill failed to pass in the Illinois legislature. In the State v. Limon case, Kansas's Romeo and Juliet law was found to be unconstitutional because it excluded same-sex sexual conduct.\n\nSome countries other than the United States also have Romeo and Juliet laws. Ireland's 2006 law has been contested because it treats girls differently from boys.\n\n"}
{"id": "56764967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56764967", "title": "American Studies in Scandinavia", "text": "American Studies in Scandinavia\n\nAmerican Studies in Scandinavia is a biannual peer-reviewed, academic journal covering American studies, especially from the Scandinavian countries. It was established in 1968 and is published by the University Press of Southern Denmark. The journal is sponsored by the Nordic Association for American Studies and the Nordic Publications Committee for Humanist Periodicals. The current editor-in-chief is Janne Lahti (University of Helsinki).\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in the Arts & Humanities Citation Index, Current Contents/Arts & Humanities, and Scopus.\n"}
{"id": "9738465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9738465", "title": "Architectural photographers", "text": "Architectural photographers\n\nEarly architectural photographers include Roger Fenton, Francis Frith (Middle East and Britain), Samuel Bourne (India) and Albert Levy (United States and Europe). They paved the way for the modern speciality of architectural photography. Later architectural photography had practitioners such as Ezra Stoller and Julius Shulman. Stoller worked mainly on the east coast of America, having graduated with a degree in architecture in the 1930s. Shulman, who was based on the West Coast, became an architectural photographer after some images that he had taken of one of Richard Neutra's houses in California made their way onto the architect's desk.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25675426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25675426", "title": "Armelin's calendar", "text": "Armelin's calendar\n\nArmelin's calendar was developed around 1887 by French astronomer Gustave Armelin, who developed a twelve-month calendar in which the year of 364 days was divided into four equal quarters of 91 days.\n\nArmelin's calendar proposal was discussed chiefly under the auspices of the Société astronomique de France in 1887 and recently in the French Academy of Sciences.\n\n\nThe advantages of this simple system are evident. The months are nearly equal in length, and all have the same number of business days. Any given day of any month falls on the same day of the week each year. A mind of modest ability will learn in a few minutes the weekday with which each month invariably begins, and will be able to compute quickly the day of the week upon which any day of any month falls. Each stated holiday falls upon its invariable day of the week. Thanksgiving Day falls always on November 30.\n\nA major disadvantage is for sabbatarians, who are obliged to worship every seventh day. Their holy day will occur on a different weekday every year.\n\nArmelin's project received the first premium of the French Astronomical Society. The World Calendar, roughly identical, has been promoted by the World Calendar Association since 1930.\n\n"}
{"id": "33945945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33945945", "title": "Art and Documentation", "text": "Art and Documentation\n\nArt and Documentation () is a scholarly journal on art published in the years 2009-2017 by the Art and Documentation Association in Lodz (Poland). Since 2018 the journal is published by Academy of Fine Arts in Gdansk. It appears twice a year. Scholarly articles are peer-reviewed. All content is published under the Creative Commons licenses. The journal is a platform aiming at shaping views, posing questions and initiating research. It gathers scholars, artists, art critics and curators. \"Art and Documentation\" focuses on works of an ephemeral nature, i.e. conceptual or post-conceptual works and related issues and documentation and documenting of contemporary art as well as creating art based on documentation. It also publishes primary sources - gallery timelines, manifestos, artists' statements etc. The journal's aim is to include research on art within the broader field of performance studies, strengthen the relationship between academic research on art and contemporary art practices, and combine theory and practice in a more direct way. This is reflected in the topics presented in the journal and the extended scope of research and methodologies that are becoming more diverse and interdisciplinary.\n\nEditorial board: Łukasz Guzek (chief editor), Anka Lesniak (managing editor), Jozef Robakowski, Aurelia Mandziuk, Adam Klimczak, Anne Seagrave (English proofreading), Norbert Trzeciak (graphic design).\n\nBoard of scholars: Ryszard Kluszczyński, Kristine Stiles, Anna Markowska, Slavka Sverakova, Leszek Brogowski, Tomasz Załuski, Bogusław Jasiński, Tassilo von Blittersdorff, Cornelia Lauf, Iwona Szmelter, Hanna B. Hölling.\n\nArticles are available at journal's webside and in databases: CEJSH, CEEOL, BazHum, EBSCO, ESCI, POL-index, ICI.\n\n"}
{"id": "23202883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23202883", "title": "Association of Historians of Nineteenth-Century Art", "text": "Association of Historians of Nineteenth-Century Art\n\nThe Association of Historians of Nineteenth-Century Art was formed in 1993. International in its scope, the organization provides a means for scholars of nineteenth-century art from around the world to share ideas and resources through a variety of venues including conferences sessions, a newsletter and a scholarly journal, Nineteenth-Century Art Worldwide. \n\nNineteenth-Century Art Worldwide was the first online, peer-reviewed journal devoted to the study of nineteenth-century art. This journal has been cited by organizations like the Carnegie Corporation as a model for the electronic dissemination of scholarship.\n\nPresident: Elizabeth Mansfield\nSecretary: Ting Chang\nTreasurer: Yvonne Weisberg\nMembership Coordinator: Karen Pope\nProgram Chair: Patricia Mainardi\nNewsletter Editor: Caterina Pierre \nWebmaster: Amelia Kahl Avdic\n\nGreg Thomas\nPamela Warner\nPeter Trippi\nNina Kallmyer\nElisabeth Fraser\nMicheline Nilsen\nMiranda Mason\nAlison McQueen\nPetra ten-Doesschate Chu (Executive Editor of NCAW)\n\n"}
{"id": "29336379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29336379", "title": "Bibliography of Antarctica", "text": "Bibliography of Antarctica\n\nThis bibliography of Antarctica is a list of English-language nonfiction books which have been described by reliable sources as in some way directly relating to the subject of Antarctica, its history, geography, people, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "19451185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19451185", "title": "Bilingual Review", "text": "Bilingual Review\n\nThe Bilingual Review/La revista bilingüe is a triannual peer-reviewed open access academic and literary journal covering research on Spanish-English bilingualism, bilingual education, and Hispanic American literature. It was previously published by Bilingual Review Press, which is affiliated with the Hispanic Research Center at Arizona State University. The current publisher is the University of Texas at San Antonio.\n\nThe journal was established in 1974 by Gary D. Keller (City College of New York), who served as editor-in-chief until 2014. He was succeeded by Howard L. Smith (University of Texas at San Antonio).\n"}
{"id": "29164348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29164348", "title": "Brigham Young University Museum of Peoples and Cultures", "text": "Brigham Young University Museum of Peoples and Cultures\n\nThe Brigham Young University Museum of Peoples and Cultures, located in Provo, Utah, is the university's museum of archaeology and ethnology. The Museum of Peoples and Cultures has a wide variety of collections containing over a million objects. Most of the 7,000 collections come from the regions of South America, Mesoamerica, Central America, the American Southwest, the Great Basin and Polynesia. However, there are many objects from other parts of the world which are available for study and research.\n\nFrom about 1980 until 2014 the museum was located in BYU's Allen Hall. In 2014 a new facility was opened at 2201 N. Canyon Road a few blocks north of the BYU football stadium.\n\nSouth America\n\nMany of the Museum’s accessions come from the South American continent. One of the notable collections of the MPC is the ancient Andean textiles. The Spoerl Collection and the Cheesman Collection account for the majority of these textiles. The Spoerl Collection contains mostly textiles and textile production tools but the Cheesman Collection contains other ancient and modern artifacts from South America. The majority of the textiles from both collections date from the prehistoric period in Peru. There is a current exhibit, \"Greater than Gold: Textiles of the Ancient Andes\", displaying many of these textiles that will run through late 2016.\n\n\nMesoamerica and Central America\n\nThe Museum also has many accessions from Mesoamerica and Central America. Four select collections that contain a variety of artifacts from ancient and modern cultures of this region are the Cluff, Barlow, Bowen, and Krenusz Collections. The Barlow Collection is specifically from Costa Rica and Nicaragua and contains mostly ancient pottery. However, there are other artifacts such as axe heads and projectile points within the collection. The Birrell Collection contains ethnographic textiles from Mesoamerica and South America. Many of the pieces within this collection are women’s clothing such as skirts, sashes, hair wraps and huipils. The collection also contains a variety of woven blankets, rugs, and bags. However, it is important to note that the MPC ethnographic textile collection is not limited to Mesoamerica and South America but contains examples from other parts of the world. The Bowen Collection contains fine examples of ancient Mesoamerican pottery. The Krenusz Collection contains little pottery but has other important pieces like metal axe heads, blades and projectile points. The jade figurines and jewelry are also a highlight of this collection. Some of the most unusual objects from the Krenusz Collection are the ancient Mexican stamps which display a variety of animal and geometric designs. The Cluff Collection contains unusual black pottery which was acquired on an expedition by Benjamin Cluff to the American Southwest and Mesoamerica in the early 20th century.\n\n\nThe American Southwest and Great Basin\n\nThe American Southwest and the Great Basin is another region that accounts for a large portion of the Museum’s collections. One select collection from this area is the Dillman Collection. This collection contains a variety of Ute objects made in the 1930s on Native American reservations in eastern Utah. This collection contains mostly baskets and leather pieces but there are some archeological objects as well. The leather pieces in particular exhibit the superb craftsmanship of the Ute artists and show how their beliefs influenced their work. Part of this collection was on display in the early 1990s.\n\nThe recently acquired Reidhead Collection from the site of Fourmile Ruin in Arizona is another impressive holding of the Museum. Altogether this collection contains 8,712 items including 1,000 whole vessels and 2,000 arrowheads. The pottery is the main highlight of this collection and displays a variety of Hopi Yellow Ware and White Mountain Red Ware. Additionally, there are a variety of other artifacts which reveal more about the Native American civilization at Fourmile Ruin. Some of the objects from this collection are part of the Museum's current exhibit \"New Lives: Building Community at Fourmile Ruin\".\n\nThe Turley Collection contains objects from Casas Grandes. Most of the collection contains pottery styles such as Ramos Black, Madera Black-on-Red and Villa Ahumada. Although the majority of the pottery in this collection is in the form of pots and bowls, there are also impressive examples of effigy jars.The pottery displays a variety of geometric designs and patterns and is frequently intermixed with representative drawings of animals and plants.\n\n\nPolynesia\n\nPolynesia is another important area of collections. Two select collections that contribute to the Polynesian collection are the Snow Collection and the Clark Collection. Both of these contain a number of tapa cloths and mats. The Snow Collection also displays many examples of jewelry and fans and the Dacosta Clark Collection contains spears, blades and clothing. Other Polynesian collections contain a variety of baskets, carved figurines and totems, and ceremonial clothing. These objects provide a deeper understanding of the cultures of Fiji, Hawaii, Samoa, Tonga and Australia.\n\n\nBrigham Young University Department of Anthropology Excavations\n\nThe Museum also has extensive excavated collections from the Department of Anthropology. There are over 100,000 lots which contain over 1,000,000 individual artifacts of sherds, lithics, projectile points and soil samples. The artifacts come from various archaeological sites across Utah with an emphasis in the areas of Utah Valley and southeastern and central Utah. Along with the Excavated Collections, the Museum also holds a large collection of photographs and notes that document archeological sites and artifacts researched by the BYU Anthropology Department. There are over 30,000 photographs that document the various sites and artifacts found in Southern Mexico and Utah. Field notes from expeditions and digs conducted by the BYU Anthropology Department are also available from as early as the 1930s.\n\n\nThe Museum offers a wide variety of programs, events, and activities including: semi-monthly family home evenings, monthly date nights, summer programs for children, weekly story time for toddlers and preschool age children, annual participation in \"Utah Prehistory Week\" and national \"Celebrate Your Museum Day\". Additionally, docent led tours are available during regular Museum hours. Visiting Boy Scouts can complete a worksheet related to the exhibits to earn a scout activity patch.\n\nThe Museum of Peoples and Cultures has been featured in several articles in a variety of publications including the BYU \"Daily Universe\", \"The Salt Lake Tribune\", \"The Daily Herald\" and \"Deseret News\" related to faculty, exhibitions, activities and events. The Museum also has a monthly newsletter which keeps the community updated about upcoming exhibitions and events at the Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "51000793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51000793", "title": "Bury Me Standing: The Gypsies and Their Journey", "text": "Bury Me Standing: The Gypsies and Their Journey\n\nBury Me Standing: The Gypsies and Their Journey is a best-selling non-fiction book on the lives of the Romani people by the American-Uruguayan writer Isabel Fonseca published in 1995. Fonseca lived and traveled with the Gypsies of Bulgaria, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, the former Yugoslavia, Romania and Albania for four years to write the book. The title \"Bury me standing\" comes from a proverb which describes the plight of the Gypsies: \"Bury me standing. I've been on my knees all my life.\"\n\nThe book is organized in eight chapters and contains black and white photographs and maps.\n"}
{"id": "58873459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58873459", "title": "Christina Sharpe", "text": "Christina Sharpe\n\nChristina Sharpe is a scholar of English literature and Black Studies. She is most well-known for her books \"In the Wake: On Blackness and\" \"Being\" and \"Monstrous Intimacies: Making Post-Slavery Subjects\". She is currently a professor at York University's department of humanities and the newly created Black Canadian Studies certificate program.\n"}
{"id": "29849199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29849199", "title": "Classification schemes for Southeast Asian languages", "text": "Classification schemes for Southeast Asian languages\n\nThere have been various classification schemes for Southeast Asian languages (see the articles for the respective language families).\n\nThe five established major language families are:\n\nA number of language groups in Arunachal Pradesh traditionally considered to be Sino-Tibetan (Tibeto-Burman) may in fact constitute independent language families or isolates (Roger Blench 2011). (See Language isolates and independent language families in Arunachal.)\n\n\nSeveral macrofamily schemes have been proposed for linking multiple language families of Southeast Asia. None of these proposals is yet accepted by mainstream comparative linguistics, though research into higher-level relationships among these languages has gained some renewed scholarly interest over the last three decades; the various hypotheses are still under investigation, and the validity of each has yet to be resolved.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGenetic similarities between the peoples of East and Southeast Asia have led some to speculate about \"Haplogroup O languages\".\n\n\nThe following table compares the phonemic inventories of various recently reconstructed proto-languages of Southeast Asia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "910535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=910535", "title": "Common land", "text": "Common land\n\nCommon land is land owned collectively by a number of persons, or by one person, but over which other people have certain traditional rights, such as to allow their livestock to graze upon it, to collect wood, or to cut turf for fuel.\n\nA person who has a right in, or over, common land jointly with another or others is called a commoner.\n\nThis article deals mainly with common land in England, Wales and Scotland. Although the extent there is much reduced due to enclosure of common land from the millions of acres that existed until the 17th century, a considerable amount of common land still exists, particularly in upland areas, and there are over 7,000 registered commons in England alone.\n\nCommon land or former common land is usually referred to as a common; for instance, Clapham Common or Mungrisdale Common.\n\nOriginally in medieval England the common was an integral part of the manor, and was thus part of the estate held by the lord of the manor under a feudal grant from the Crown or a superior peer, who in turn held his land from the Crown which owned all land. This manorial system, founded on feudalism, granted rights of land use to different classes. These would be \"appurtenant\" rights, that is the ownership of rights belonged to tenancies of particular plots of land held within a manor. A commoner would be the person who, for the time being, was the occupier of a particular plot of land. Some rights of common were said to be \"in gross\", that is, they were unconnected with tenure of land. This was more usual in regions where commons are more extensive, such as in the high ground of Northern England or on the Fens, but also included many village greens across England and Wales. Most land with appurtenant commons rights is adjacent to the common or even surrounded by it, but in a few cases it may be some considerable distance away.\n\nHistorically Manorial courts defined the details of many of the rights of common allowed to manorial tenants, and such rights formed part of the copyhold tenancy whose terms were defined in the manorial court roll.\n\nExample rights of common are:\n\n\nOn most commons, rights of pasture and pannage for each commoner are tightly defined by number and type of animal, and by the time of year when certain rights could be exercised. For example, the occupier of a particular cottage might be allowed to graze fifteen cattle, four horses, ponies or donkeys, and fifty geese, whilst the numbers allowed for their neighbours would probably be different. On some commons (such as the New Forest and adjoining commons), the rights are not limited by numbers, and instead a \"marking fee\" is paid each year for each animal \"turned out\". However, if excessive use was made of the common, for example, in overgrazing, a common would be \"stinted\", that is, a limit would be put on the number of animals each commoner was allowed to graze. These regulations were responsive to demographic and economic pressure. Thus rather than let a common become degraded, access was restricted even further.\n\nThe Lord of the Manor must only exercise his rights so far as to leave a \"sufficiency\" of resource for commoners. This was at Issue in 1889 when the Lord of the Manor and owner of Banstead Downs and Heath, a Mr Hartopp, exacavated gravel and threatened to reduce the available pasture. The meaning of sufficiency was challenged in court, Expert winesses stated that the grazing capacity was 1200 animals, the commoners rights totalled 1440 animals, and 600 animals were normally turned out. It was decided sufficiency was whether enough grazing would be available for all the animals that could be turned out. The judgement was that \"The Lord is bound to leave pasture enough to satisfy the commoners rights whether such rights are to be exercised or not\". Commoners also have the right to \"peaceful enjoyment\" of their rights, so that they cannot be hindered by the Lord of the Manor. This was first proposed in 1500 and became case law in 1827.\n\nPasture commons are those where the primary right is to pasture livestock. In the uplands, they are largely moorland, on the coast they may be salt marsh, sand dunes or cliffs, and on inland lowlands they may be downland, grassland, heathland or wood pasture, depending on the soil and history. These habitats are often of very high nature conservation value, because of their very long continuity of management extending in some cases over many hundreds of years. In the past, most pasture commons would have been grazed by mixtures of cattle, sheep and ponies (often also geese). The modern survival of grazing on pasture commons over the past century is uneven.\n\nSurviving commons are almost all pasture, but in earlier times, arable farming and haymaking were significant, with strips of land in the common arable fields and common haymeadows assigned annually by lot. When not in use for those purposes, such commons were grazed. Examples include the common arable fields around the village of Laxton in Nottinghamshire, and a common meadow at North Meadow, Cricklade.\n\n\"Lammas rights\" entitled commoners to pasture following the harvest, between Lammas day, 12 August (N.S.), to 6 April, even if they did not have other rights to the land. Such rights sometimes had the effect of preventing enclosure and building development on agricultural land.\n\nMost of the medieval common land of England was lost due to enclosure. In English social and economic history, enclosure or inclosure is the process which ends traditional rights such as mowing meadows for hay, or grazing livestock on common land formerly held in the open field system. Once enclosed, these uses of the land become restricted to the owner, and it ceases to be land for the use of commoners. In England and Wales the term is also used for the process that ended the ancient system of arable farming in open fields. Under enclosure, such land is fenced (\"enclosed\") and \"deeded\" or \"entitled\" to one or more owners. The process of enclosure began to be a widespread feature of the English agricultural landscape during the 16th century. By the 19th century, unenclosed commons had become largely restricted to large areas of rough pasture in mountainous areas and to relatively small residual parcels of land in the lowlands.\n\nEnclosure could be accomplished by buying the ground rights and all common rights to accomplish exclusive rights of use, which increased the value of the land. The other method was by passing laws causing or forcing enclosure, such as Parliamentary enclosure. The latter process of enclosure was sometimes accompanied by force, resistance, and bloodshed, and remains among the most controversial areas of agricultural and economic history in England.\n\nEnclosure is considered one of the causes of the British Agricultural Revolution. Enclosed land was under control of the farmer who was free to adopt better farming practices. There was widespread agreement in contemporary accounts that profit making opportunities were better with enclosed land. Following enclosure, crop yields and livestock output increased while at the same time productivity increased enough to create a surplus of labour. The increased labour supply is considered one of the factors facilitating the Industrial Revolution.\n\nFollowing the era of enclosure, there was relatively little common land remaining of value. Some residual commoners remained, until such as after the Second World War, lowland commons became neglected because commoners could find better-paid work in other sectors of the economy. As a result, they largely stopped exercising their rights, and relatively few commoners exist today.\n\nMuch common land is still used for its original purpose. The right to graze domestic stock is by far the most extensive commoners right registered, and its ongoing use contributes significantly to agricultural and rural economies. Rights to graze sheep are registered on 53% of the Welsh and 16% of the English commons. Cattle are registered on 35% of Welsh and 20% of English commons, whilst horses and ponies are registered on 27% of Welsh and 13% of English commons. In some cases rights to graze goats, geese and ducks are registered, whilst in others the type of livestock is not specified. These figures relate to the number of common land units, and due to discrepancies in the registers and large numbers of small commons with no rights in England, the apparent distinction between Wales and England may be exaggerated.\n\nToday, despite the diverse legal and historical origins of commons, they are managed through a community of users, comprising those who hold rights together with the owner(s) of the soil. Such communities generally require joint working to integrate all interests, with formal or informal controls and collaborative understandings, often coupled with strong social traditions and local identity.\n\nHowever, 26% of commons in Wales, and as many as 65% in England, have no common rights shown on the registers. Such areas are derived from wastes of manors, where rights probably existed formerly. When such open habitats are no longer grazed they revert to scrub and then dense woodland, losing the grassy or heathland vegetation which may have occupied the land continuously for many centuries. In 2007 Ashdown Forest, the Sussex heathland which was the setting for the Winnie-the-Pooh stories, became the centre of a dispute between some local residents and the Forest's governing body, the Board of Conservators, which is responsible for administering the Forest's of common land. The Conservators wished to restore the Forest's landscape to one that predominantly consisted of heathland—its defining characteristic until the mid-twentieth century, but something that was in danger of being lost after the Second World War as a result of the advance of woodland into traditional heathland areas when, as one commentator stated..\n\nThe Conservators were forced to intervene to stem the invasion of trees, scrub and bracken that threatened the ecologicially precious heathlands, cutting down saplings, removing scrub and mowing the bracken. Some residents complained that the results looked like a First World War battle field. This is not a problem restricted to this common, but according to Jonathan Brown writing in the Independent on 21 April 2007 \"similar debates are raging between locals and the authorities at other heathland areas in the New Forest and Surrey\".\n\nIn 2008 the Foundation for Common Land was created in the UK to try to enhance the understanding and protection of commons.\n\nThe legal position concerning common land has been confused, but recent legislation has sought to remedy this and remove the legal uncertainties so that commons can be better used and protected.\n\nMost commons are based on ancient rights under British common law, which pre-date statutes passed by the Parliament of England. The exact rights which apply to individual commons were in some cases documented, but more often were based on long-held traditions. A major reform began in 1965, with a national register of common land which recorded the land ownership and the rights of any commoners, and two other important statutes have followed.\n\nOwners of land in general have all the rights of exclusive ownership, to use the land as they wish. However, for common land the owner's rights are restricted, and other people known as commoners have certain rights over the land. The landowner may retain other rights to the land, such as rights to minerals and large timber, and to any common rights left unexercised by the commoners. The commoners will continue to exercise their rights, or have a document which describes their rights, which may be part of the deeds of another property. A number of commoners still exercise rights, for example, there are 500 practising commoners in the New Forest, and there is a federation of commoners in Cumbria. In many cases commons have no existing commoners, the rights having been neglected.\n\nThere was a belief that if an Englishman or woman could—between sunrise and sunset in a single day—build a house on common land, raise the roof over their head and light a fire in the hearth, then they would have the right of undisturbed possession. The belief—sometimes called \"keyhole tenure\", and which persisted as recently as the early 20th century—was actually a fallacy, but to stop landless peasants unlawfully squatting on commons, an act known as the Erection of Cottages Act 1588 (31 Eliz c. 7, long title \"An Act against the erecting and maintaining of Cottages\"), was introduced.\n\nUnder the Commons Act 1876 some 36 commons in England and Wales were regulated. The act also enabled the confirmation of Orders providing for the inclosure of common land or common fields.\n\nThe Commons Act 1899 provides a mechanism of enabling district councils and National Park authorities to manage commons where their use for exercise and recreation is the prime consideration and where the owner and commoners do not require a direct voice in the management, or where the owner cannot be found. There are at least 200 schemes of management made under the 1899 act.\n\nThe Law of Property Act 1925, which still forms the core of English property law, has two provisions for common land:\n\nThe UK government regularised the definitions of common land with the Commons Registration Act 1965, which established a register of common land.\n\nNot all commons have owners, but all common land by definition is registered under 1965 Commons registration Act, along with the rights of any commoners if they still exist. The registration authorities are the County Councils, and when there is no ownership, a local council, such as a parish council is normally given guardianship by vesting the property under the Act (section 8).\n\nAn online database of registered common land was compiled by DEFRA in 1992–93 as part of a survey of the condition and wildlife of commons. The official up to date Registers of common land are held by the Commons Registration Authorities.\n\nThe following registration information is held:\n\n\nThis includes a description of the land, who applied to register the land, and when the land became finally registered. There are also related plans which show the boundaries of the land.\n\n\nThis includes a description of the rights of common (e.g. a right to graze a certain number of sheep), the area of common over which the right is exercisable, the name of the holder of the right and whether the right is attached to land in the ownership of the holder of the right (the commoner) or is a right held in gross i.e. unattached to land.\n\n\nThis includes details of the owner(s) of the common land. Entries in this section however, are not held to be conclusive.\n\nUnfortunately, numerous inconsistencies and irregularities remained, mainly because a period of only 3 years was given for registration submissions. However, there is there is now an opportunity to clear these up under the 2006 Act, and to add land omitted under the 1965 act.\n\nOther than for those commons covered by the Law of Property Act 1925, the Commons Act 1899 and certain other statutes, the public did not have the right to use or enjoy common land if they were not a commoner. However, the Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000 gave the public the Freedom to roam freely on all registered common land in England and Wales. The new rights were introduced region by region through England and Wales, with completion in 2005. Maps showing accessible areas have been produced, and are available online as \"open access maps\" produced by Natural England. Commons are included in the public access land now shown on the Ordnance Survey Explorer Maps.\n\nThe Commons Act 2006 is an important recent piece of legislation.\n\nThe Act:\n\n\nSeveral hundred square kilometres of ‘waste land’ that was provisionally registered under the Commons Registration Act 1965 was not, in fact, finally registered. As a consequence, it ceased to be recognised as common land. A partial remedy for this defect in the earlier legislation is provided by the Commons Act 2006. Under Schedule 2(4) to the Act, applications that failed to achieve final registration under the 1965 Act may, in certain circumstances, be reconsidered – offering, in effect, a second chance for the land to be confirmed (‘re-registered’) as common. Land that is re-registered in this way will enjoy the special legal protection afforded to common land. It will also become subject in due course to the public right of access introduced by the Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000; or depending on location, may qualify as a section 193 ‘urban’ common (in which case, it would also be subject to a right of access for horse-riders).\n\nThe act of transferring resources from the commons to purely private ownership is known as \"enclosure\", or (especially in formal use, and in place names) \"Inclosure\". The Inclosure Acts were a series of private Acts of Parliament, mainly from about 1750 to 1850, which enclosed large areas of common, especially the arable and haymeadow land and the better pasture land.\n\nThe maintenance of fences around a common is the responsibility of the occupiers of the adjacent enclosed land, not (as it would be with enclosed land) the responsibility of the owners of the grazed livestock. This can lead to difficulties where not all adjacent occupiers maintain their fences properly. However the fencing of land within a registered common is not allowed, as this is a form of enclosure and denies use of the land to others.\n\nA celebrated landmark case of unauthorised fencing of a common was in 1866 by Lord Brownlow who illegally enclosed 434 acres of Berkhamsted Common to add to his Ashridge Estate. Brownlow had failed to buy out the commoners, so resorted to this action. A public outcry followed, and the Commons Preservation Society found a champion in Augustus Smith who had the inclination and the money to act, and himself held commons rights. Smith hired 120 navvies armed with hammers, chisels and crowbars, who on the night of 6 March 1866, under the aegis of the newly formed Commons Preservation Society (now the Open Spaces Society), felled to the ground two miles of iron railings. Soon after, local people flocked in. Lord Brownlow took action against Augustus Smith and the court case lasted until 1870 when it ended with the complete vindication of Smith.\n\nDevelopment of common land is strictly controlled. The government states that common land should be open and accessible to the public, and the law restricts the kind of works that can be carried out on commons. HM Planning Inspectorate is responsible for determining applications under the 2006 Act regarding common land in England, and several other pieces of legislation regarding commons and greens. All applications are determined on behalf of the Secretary of State for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra).\n\nUnder section 38 of the Commons Act 2006, you need consent to carry out any restricted works on land registered as common land under the Commons Registration Act 1965. Restricted works are any that\nprevent or impede access to or over the land. They include fencing, buildings, structures, ditches, trenches, embankments and other works, where the effect of those works is to prevent or impede access. They also include, in every case, new solid surfaces, such as for a new car park or access road.\n\nSome commons are managed by Boards of Conservators for the wider public benefit. However, for areas where these are not established, or an improved system is required, the Commons Act 2006 provides for the establishment of Commons Councils to manage common land.\n\nThe Standard Constitution Regulations relating to commons councils were formally approved in April 2010, and Commons Councils are most likely to be useful where they can improve current management practices. This may be where commons are in agricultural use, but where it can be difficult to reach agreement on collective management. Commons Councils are voluntary and can be established only where there is substantial support among those with interests in the land, such as; the Commoners (especially those who actively exercise their rights); owners and other legal interests.\n\nCommons Councils enable decisions to be made by majority voting, so relieving the burden of trying to reach unanimous decisions. They will have the power to make rules about agricultural activities, the management of vegetation, and the exercise of common rights, which are binding on all those with interests on a common.\n\nCommons are often crossed by unfenced public roads, and this leads to another problem on modern pasture commons where grazing survives (or is to be reintroduced). Historically, the roads would have been cart-tracks, and there would have been no conflict between their horse-drawn (or ox-drawn) traffic and the pastured animals, and no great difficulty if pastured animals wandered off the common along the roads. However, these roads now have fast motorised traffic which does not mix safely with animals. To continue (or restore) grazing, such roads may need fencing or at least blocking at the edge of the common with cattle grids — however fencing a common is reminiscent of the process of enclosure, historically fatal to its survival, and permission for fencing on a common is a strictly controlled process within the UK planning system.\n\nPublic roads through enclosed common land were made to an accepted width between boundaries. In the late eighteenth century this was at least , but from the 1790s this was decreased to , and later as the normal maximum width. The reason for these wide roads to was to prevent excessive churning of the road bed, and allow easy movement of flocks and herds of animals.\n\nA partition unit is a corporation that owns common land. In this case, the land is not state-owned or in joint-ownership under a trust, but is owned by a definite partition unit, a legal partnership whose partners are the participating individual landowners. Common lands and waterways owned by a partition unit were created by an agreement where certain land was reserved for the common use of all adjacent landowners. For the most part, this was due to the Great Partition (Swedish: , Finnish: ), which started in 1757 and was largely complete by the 1800s. Earlier, the land of a village was divided into narrow stripes of farmland for each to own, with the remainder commonly owned, and work on the land was collective. In the Great Partition, villages were organized as corporations termed partition units (Swedish: , Finnish: ), and land was divided into large chunks that were divided among the households (commoners) for individual cultivation and habitation. Land or waterways that remained undivided was kept by the partition unit as commons, owned by the partition unit. Later, Gustaf III claimed the yet unclaimed forest for the Crown – this was the origin of the large forest holdings of the state in Sweden and Finland. Today, partition units are a common way of owning waterways.\n\nCommoning has probably existed in Scotland for over a millennium. However, there is no modern legislation relating to commons which formally identifies the extent of common land or clarifies the full range of rights. The right of turbary – the ability to cut peat as fuel – clearly exists in large parts of Scotland, whilst the scale of such rights, and the extent to which they are utilised, remain unknown. The main work undertaken on Scottish commons concerns grazing, using a pragmatic definition, where such commons were defined as pastures with multiple grazing rights and/or multiple graziers.\n\nThere are seven main historic types of common land in Scotland, some of which have similarities to common land in England and Wales.\n\nThe overwhelming majority of areas of common land in lowland Scotland and the Highland fringes were \"commonties\". A commonty is an area of land where the rights of property or use are shared by two or more neighbouring (though not necessarily adjacent) landowners. They are not therefore truly 'common' land in the sense that anyone can use them, and this distinction meant that it was often very easy for commonties to be divided between landowners after a series of Acts permitting this were passed by the Parliament of Scotland in the 17th century, most notably the 1695 Act for the Division of Commonties. As a result, the number of commonties declined very rapidly in the 18th and 19th centuries.\n\nCommon mosses were areas of bog where the right to dig peat for fuel were shared by neighbouring landowners. They are therefore similar to commonties and most commonties included a common moss. However the difficulties of dividing such wet areas meant that they were left out of many commonty divisions and many common mosses may still survive, un-noticed because of the decline of peat-cutting.\n\nRun rig is a system of agriculture involving the cultivation of adjacent, narrow strips of raised land (rigs). Traditionally adjacent rigs would be used by different farmers and the rigs were periodically re-allocated between them. The system was common throughout Scotland until the 18th century, but survived longer in the Western Highlands, where runrig was often associated with an adjacent area of common hill grazing which was also shared by the same farmers as the runrig.\n\nScattalds are unique to Shetland and are based on udal law, rather than the feudal law that predominated in the rest of Scotland. However, Scattalds are very similar to commonties and many were divided under the same 1695 Act that allowed for the division of commonties.\n\nCrown Commons were areas of land held directly by the crown and therefore the common rights that could be used were rights of use rather than rights of property. Unlike commonties, the rights to use crown commons (for example for grazing livestock) were available to anyone, not just the neighbouring landowners. There are no crown commons left in Scotland; those that survived into the 20th century were taken over by the Crown Estate.\n\nGreens were small areas of common land near a settlement where livestock could be kept overnight, markets held and other communal activities carried out. Sometimes they were adjacent to drovers' roads near river crossing points or overnight accommodation. Most were genuinely common land with only the Crown holding any title to them. A loan was a common route through private property allowing access to an area of common land or other public place. As the traditional uses of greens and loans declined, they were often absorbed by the neighbouring landowners.\n\nBurgh commons were areas of common land where property rights or privileges of use were held by the burgh for their inhabitants. They could include any of the other six types of common land and were sometimes shared with landowners outside the burgh. By the early 19th century, most burgh commons had been appropriated by the wealthy landowners who dominated burgh councils, and very few have survived.\n\nCommon land, an English development, was used in many former British colonies, for example in Ireland and the United States. The North American colonies adopted the English laws in establishing their own commons. Famous examples include the Boston Common in Massachusetts and the New Haven Green in New Haven, Connecticut, some of the oldest commons in the United States.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50163072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50163072", "title": "Conservation and restoration of lacquerware", "text": "Conservation and restoration of lacquerware\n\nThe conservation and restoration of lacquerware prevents and mitigates deterioration or damage to objects made with lacquer. The two main types of lacquer are Asian, made with sap from the Urushi tree, and European, made with a variety of shellac and natural resins. Lacquer can be damaged by age, light, water, temperature, or damaged substrate.\n\nConservation treatments include dry cleaning, wet cleaning, consolidation and filling losses. Eastern cultures use Asian lacquer to repair damages and fill and consolidate losses. Western cultures typically use alternate materials that can be reversed with minimal risk to the original object.\n\nLacquer is a type of varnish or surface coating, which is diluted with solvent and applied in several coats to seal a substrate, hardening via a chemical reaction to create a seal. There are two main categories of lacquer: Asian lacquer and European lacquer.\n\nTraditional Asian lacquer has been used for centuries and is derived from sap, prominently that from the Urushi tree; part of the sumac family grown throughout Japan, China and Korea. Sap from the tree contains a chemical compound called urishol that hardens when exposed to humidity. The sap is processed to remove impurities. The production of lacquerware involves a process of applying a ground layer, oftentimes lacquer mixed with other substances such as clay or a layer of fabric, followed by many very thin layers of processed lacquer to a substrate, typically wood, and allowing them to dry completely, then curing and polishing.\n\nDeveloped in the 17th Century, European Lacquerware, or Japanning, was influenced by the import of Asian lacquerware. Japanned objects are made with a variety of shellac and natural resins.\n\nWhen it is produced, lacquer is a very durable substance, both waterproof and insoluble. With age, lacquer can begin to breakdown and deteriorate. \n\nLacquerware is very sensitive to exposure to light, which causes photodegradation, fading and discoloration.\n\nPhotodegraded lacquer is extremely sensitive to humidity and water. Exposure to water and other polar solvents can cause blanching, whitening of the surface from the formation of salts.\n\nHigh temperatures along with moisture can cause thermochromatic change to the lacquer surface.\n\nThe supporting structure can be damaged or lost from the effects of expanding and contracting in changing environmental conditions, including temperature and humidity, from pest damage, or deterioration from age. The damaged support may cause warping, lifting or cracking of the lacquer coating.\n\nPrevious restoration such as fills and overpainting can degrade and potentially damage original surfaces over time.\n\nPreventive Conservation measures can be used to avert damage to lacquerware caused by deterioration. Preventive methods may include limiting exposure to light to a maximum of 40 years at 100 lux or 80 years at 50 lux, maintaining stable temperature and humidity levels, using safe and proper art handling with gloves and proper art storage, per current professional museum standards such as those from the American Alliance of Museums.\n\nConservation treatment methods vary depending on the individual object and the materials used in its production. Asian lacquer and European lacquer have different chemical properties, and therefore require different materials and techniques for treatment. Prior to conservation treatment, conservators and conservation scientists analyze and document the properties of the work to determine the best methods and materials for its treatment. Professional conservators use codes of ethics for best practices, such as those from the American Institute for Conservation.\n\nDifferent conservation techniques are used to conserve Asian lacquerware in Eastern and Western cultures. Traditionally, Eastern cultures use Asian lacquer to repair damages and fill and consolidate losses. Asian lacquer is toxic and requires training and expertise to use. The material is also not easily reversible nor readily available to attain for conservation use. Western cultures, less familiar with the techniques of producing, applying or curing lacquer, typically use alternate materials for conservation treatment, particularly those that can be reversed with minimal risk to the original object.\n\nDry cleaning is the process of removing dirt and grime from the surface of the object without the use of solvents. Tools used for dry cleaning of lacquerware can include soft brushes, microfiber cloths, cotton swabs, and fine celled absorbent sponges.\n\nWet cleaning is the process of further removal of dirt, grime and residue from the surface of the object that is not successfully removed by dry cleaning. Testing of various solvents should be done prior to wet cleaning the surface of the object in order to prevent possible damage to or removal of the original lacquer surface. Aqueous solvents with different PH levels will have varying levels of success in the removal of dirt and grime from the surface of the lacquer, and have various levels of risk of damaging the surface. This also depends on the condition of the object prior to cleaning. Nonpolar solvents are less likely to damage surfaces that have been photodegradad.\n\nConsolidation is the process of stabilizing lifting and cracked areas of lacquer to minimize further damage and loss. Consolidants used can include Asian lacquer or other synthetic or organic adhesives such as animal glue or Paraloid B-72. Adhesives can be thinned with solvents in order to be wicked beneath layers of lifting lacquer or into cracks and allowed to dry while securing the loose area in place.\n\nDifferent types of fill materials are used for European and Asian lacquerware. Losses caused by damage to the lacquer surface can be structural or aesthetic. Losses should only be filled if the surrounding areas are stable, without potential of damage from the fill material. Trained Eastern conservators may choose to use Asian Lacquer as a fill for losses, while Western conservators may use alternate materials such as waxes, polyester resins and epoxy resins. Completed fills can then be inpainted to match the surrounding lacquer surface.\n\n"}
{"id": "4797236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4797236", "title": "Constitutional theory", "text": "Constitutional theory\n\nConstitutional theory is an area of constitutional law that focuses on the underpinnings of constitutional government. It overlaps with legal theory, constitutionalism, philosophy of law and democratic theory. It is not limited by country or jurisdiction.\n\nConstitutional theory in the United States is an academic discipline that focuses on the meaning of the United States Constitution. Its concerns include (but are not limited to) the historical, linguistic, sociological, ethical, and political aspects.\n\nMuch of constitutional theory is concerned with theories of judicial review. This is in part because \"Marbury v. Madison\", which established this judicial power in the early 19th century, has given the judiciary near-final authority on constitutional meaning.\n\nAside from judicial review, constitutional theory in general seeks to ask and answer the following questions:\n\n\nAlthough constitutional theory as a discipline has its precursors in \"The Federalist\" and Justice Story's \"Commentaries on the Constitution\", modern constitutional theory began with the publication of Alexander Bickel's \"The Least Dangerous Branch\". (The title is an allusion to \"The Federalist\" No. 78, in which Alexander Hamilton wrote that the judiciary \"will always be the least dangerous to the political rights of the Constitution\", because it has neither the sword (like the Executive) nor the purse (like the Legislature). The book's primary (but not sole) contribution was to introduce the idea of the \"countermajoritarian difficulty.\" The idea expressed by the term countermajoritarian difficulty is that there is a tension between democratic government (as he defines it democratic government is majoritarian government) and judicial power. If the judiciary—an unelected branch of government—can overturn popular legislation, then either there is a fundamental contradiction within the democratic system, or there is a tension that must be resolved by curbing judicial power. (One of Bickel's solutions is for the Court to exercise \"the passive virtues\": that is, to decline to decide more than it has to decide.)\n\nThe following is a partial list if important American theorists and thinkers:\n\nThe Rechtsstaat doctrine (Legal state, State of Right, Constitutional state, constitutional government) was introduced in the latest works of the German philosopher Immanuel Kant (1724–1804) after US and French constitutions were adopted in the late 18th century. Kant’s approach is based on the supremacy of a country’s written constitution. This supremacy must create guarantees for implementation of his central idea: a permanent peaceful life as a basic condition for the happiness of its people and their prosperity. Kant was basing his doctrine on none other but constitutionalism and constitutional government.\n\nKant had thus formulated the main problem of constitutionalism, “The constitution of a state is eventually based on the morals of its citizens, which, in its turns, is based on the goodness of this constitution.” Kant’s idea is the foundation for the constitutional theory of the twenty-first century. The Legal state concept is based on the ideas, discovered by Immanuel Kant, for example, in his Groundwork of the Metaphysic of Morals:\n“The task of establishing a universal and permanent peaceful life is not only a part of theory of law within the framework of pure reason, but per se an absolute and ultimate goal. To achieve this goal, a state must become the community of a large number of people, living provided with legislative guarantees of their property rights secured by a common constitution. The supremacy of this constitution… must be derived a priori from the considerations for achievement of the absolute ideal in the most just and fair organization of people’s life under the aegis of public law.”.\n\nThe Russian legal system, borne out of transformations in the 19th Century under the judicial reform of Alexander II, is based primarily upon the German legal tradition. It was from here that Russia borrowed a doctrine of Rechtsstaat, which literally translates as Legal State. The English most close analogue is «rule of law». Rechtsstaat is a concept in continental European legal thinking, originally borrowed from German legal philosophy, which can be translated as “legal state” or \"state of law\", or \"state of rights\", \"constitutional state\" in which the exercise of governmental power is constrained by the law. The Russian Legal state concept adopts the written constitution as a supreme law of the country (the rule of constitution). The concept of “legal state” (“pravovoe gosudarstvo” in Russian) is a fundamental, but undefined, principle that appears in the very first dispositive provision of Russia’s post-Communist constitution: “The Russian Federation – Russia – constitutes a democratic federative legal state with a republican form of governance.” Similarly, the very first dispositive provision of the Constitution of Ukraine declares: “Ukraine is a sovereign and independent, democratic, social, legal state.” The effort to give meaning to definition “Legal State” is anything but theoretical.\n\nValery Zorkin, President of the Constitutional Court of Russia, wrote in 2003:\n“Becoming a legal state has long been our ultimate goal, and we have certainly made serious progress in this direction over the past several years. \nHowever, no one can say now that we have reached this destination. Such a Legal state simply cannot exist without a lawful and\njust society. Here, as in no other sphere of our life, the state reflects the level of maturity reached by society.\".\n\nThe Russian concept of legal state adopted many segments of the constitutional economics. One of the founders of constitutional economics James M. Buchanan, the 1986 recipient of the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences argues that in the framework of constitutional government any governmental interventions and regulations have been based on three assumptions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8573", "title": "Daoism–Taoism romanization issue", "text": "Daoism–Taoism romanization issue\n\nThe English words Daoism () and Taoism ( or ) are alternative spellings for the same-named Chinese philosophy and religion. The root for Daoism or Taoism is the Chinese word 道 (\"road\" or \"way\"), which was transcribed \"tao\" or \"tau\" in the earliest systems for the romanization of Chinese and \"dao\" or \"dau\" in 20th century systems.\n\nIn order to explain why English \"Taoism\" is correctly pronounced (), it is necessary to introduce some technical terminology from linguistics. A phoneme is the smallest unit of speech sounds that a particular language distinguishes, and unrelated languages can have disparate phonemic inventories. For instance, Standard English, depending on dialect, has about 24 consonant phonemes and Standard Chinese has 19. To illustrate how phonemic gaps can affect borrowed words, English has and consonants and Chinese has but not , thus, Chinese uses /l-/ to transcribe both /l-/ and /r-/ English loanwords; for example, \"léishè\" 镭射 \"laser\" and \"léidá\" 雷达 \"radar\". Conversely, Japanese has the /r-/ phoneme but not /l-/, with borrowings of \"rēza\" レーザ and \"rēdā\" レーダー.\n\nIn phonetics, the consonant of Chinese \"tao\" or \"dào\" 道 is classified as an unaspirated denti-alveolar stop. Aspiration is articulation that involves an audible puff of breath; for example, the /t/ in English \"tore\" is aspirated with a burst of air while the /t/ in \"store\" is unaspirated. The IPA symbol for aspiration is a superscript \"h\", (e.g., ), and the optional diacritic for unaspiration is a superscript equals sign \"=\", (e.g., ). A stop consonant or oral occlusive is a consonant in which the speaker blocks the vocal tract so that all airflow ceases, and a denti-alveolar consonant is articulated with a flat tongue against the alveolar ridge and upper teeth. \n\nThe present Chinese unaspirated denti-alveolar stop in pinyin \"dào\" 道 is commonly transcribed with the IPA symbol [], although some linguists prefer using with the voiceless under-ring diacritic. The sinologist and phonologist Jerry Norman explains the reason for using instead of [t] for Pinyin \"d\". Chinese stops and affricates fall into two contrasting unaspirated and aspirated series. The unaspirated series (\"b\", \"d\", \"z\", etc.) is lenis, and \"often gives the impression of being voiced to the untrained ear\", while the aspirated series (\"p\", \"t\", \"c\", etc.) is strongly aspirated (1988:139). Standard Chinese phonology uses aspiration for the contrastive distribution of consonantal stops. For example, phonemically differentiating the unaspirated denti-alveolar stop // with the aspirated denti-alveolar stop //, as in unaspirated \"dào\" or // 道 \"way\" and aspirated \"tào\" or // 套 \"sheath; case; cover\". \n\nInstead of aspiration, English phonology primarily contrasts stop consonants by voicing, that is, the vocal cords vibrate in a voiced sound but not in a voiceless or unvoiced one. The voiced stops (, , and ) are in complementary distribution with voiceless (, , and (). Voiced stops are usually unaspirated and voiceless stops are sometimes aspirated. There are six voiceless plosives in Chinese: simple and aspirated p p', t t', k k', which would correspond to English voiceless and voiced p b, t d, k g. The six Chinese plosives are generally rendered by English p t k, for instance, simple t in moutan, and Tanka, and aspirated t' in fantan and twankay (Yuan 1981: 251).\n\nIn English, aspiration is allophonic, meaning multiple alternative pronunciations for a single phoneme in a particular language. For example, as in \"pin\" and as in \"spin\" are allophones for the phoneme because they cannot distinguish words. English-speakers treat them as the same sound, but they are phonetically different, the first is aspirated and the second is unaspirated.\n\nPhonological rules can miss the point when it comes to loanwords, which are borrowings that move from a language with one set of well-formedness conditions to a language with a different set, with the result that adjustments have to be made to meet the new constraints (Yip 1993:262). Coming back to the Chinese unaspirated denti-alveolar stop in pinyin \"dào\" 道, this speech sound exists in English—but never as the stressed first syllable in a word. Unaspirated occurs instead in words such as \"stop\" or \"pat\" as a complimentary /t/ allophone of the aspirated initial \"t\" in English, such as in \"tap\". Owing to the linguistic difference between the Chinese aspirated /tʰ/ vs. unaspirated /t/ phonemic contrast and English voiced /d/ vs. unvoiced /t/ phonemic contrast, an English speaker who is unfamiliar with Chinese romanization will likely pronounce \"Dao\" with the voiced alveolar stop and \"Tao\" with the voiceless alveolar stop . Thus, the Chinese unaspirated phoneme in \"dào\" 道 /taʊ/ is nearer to the pronunciation of English voiced unaspirated in \"Dow\" /daʊ/ than the voiceless aspirated in \"Taos\" [taʊs], but it is neither (Carr 1990: 60).\n\nScholars have been developing Chinese romanization systems for four centuries, and the unaspirated 道 \"road; way\" has many transcriptions.\n\nJesuit missionaries in China recorded the earliest romanizations of /taʊ/ 道. The first bilingual Chinese dictionary in a Western language, Michele Ruggieri's and Matteo Ricci's Portuguese 1583-1588 \"Dicionário Português-Chinês\" or \"Pú-Hàn cídiǎn\" 葡漢辭典 (Yong and Peng 2008: 385), transcribed /taʊ/ as \"táo\" (Witek 2001: 190). The Latin 1615 \"De Christiana expeditione apud Sinas\", compiled by Matteo Ricci and Nicolas Trigault, romanized it as \"tau\" in the Chinese term \"Tausu\" (i.e., \"Daoshi\" 道士, \"Daoist priest\"), which Samuel Purchas's 1625 English translation gave as \"Tausa\" (XII: 461).\n\nDuring the 19th and 20th centuries, new and revised Chinese romanization schemes flourished. The Standard Chinese pronunciation of 道 is variously transcribed as Wade–Giles \"tao\" (or \"tao\" marking 4th tone), Legge romanization \"tâo\", Latinxua Sin Wenz \"dau\", Gwoyeu Romatzyh \"daw\", Yale \"dàu\", and Hanyu Pinyin \"dào\". In addition to Latin alphabet romanizations, there are transliterations of Zhuyin fuhao ㄉㄠ and Cyrillic Pallidius System \"дао\". Romanization systems use one of two arbitrary ways to represent the Chinese phonemic opposition between aspirated and unaspirated consonants. Take for example, Chinese unaspirated \"way\" and aspirated \"peach\". Some systems, like Wade–Giles \"tao\" 道 and \"t'ao\" 桃, introduce a special symbol for aspiration, in this case the Greek rough breathing diacritic (῾) indicating before a vowel; others, like Pinyin \"dao\" 道 and \"tao\" 桃, use \"d\" and \"t\". In English and other languages, \"d\" and \"t\" indicate a voiced and unvoiced distinction, which is not phonemic in Chinese (Carr 1990: 59).\n\nWhile many scholars prefer the more familiar spelling \"Taoism\", arguing that it is now an English word in its own right, the term \"Daoism\" is becoming increasingly popular. In one work, \"Daoism\" was preferred to \"Taoism\" principally for technical, phonological and conventional reasons, but also because it was thought the modern term \"Daoism\" helped highlight a departure from earlier Western interpretations of the philosophy (Girardot, Miller, and Liu 2001: xxxi). Miller later added that \"Daoism\" is his preferred usage as a distinction \"from what 'Taoism' represented in the 20th-century Western imagination\" (Miller 2008: xiii). One commentator, who goes beyond the spelling distinction between Orientalist \"Taoism\" and academic \"Daoism\", discriminates \"Taoism\" with its common voiced /ˈtaʊ.ɪzəm/ mispronunciation. Having explained that both \"Daoism\" and \"Taoism\" are pronounced \"with a 'd' sound\", i.e., /ˈdaʊ.ɪzəm/, Komjathy describes a new religious movement labeled \"American Taoism\" or \"Popular Western Taoism\" (a term coined by Herman 1998) in which \"Taoism\" is pronounced with a \"hard 't' sound\", /ˈtaʊ.ɪzəm/ (2014: 1, 206).\n\nWithin the lexical set of English words originating from Chinese, the loanword \"Tao/Dao\" is more typical than the loanblend \"Taoism/Daoism\". Most Sinitic borrowings in English are loanwords directly transliterated from Chinese (for example, \"Tao/Dao\" from \"dào\" 道 \"way, path; say\" or \"kowtow\" from \"kòutóu\" 叩頭 lit. \"knock head\"), some are calques or loan translations (\"brainwashing\" from \"xǐnăo\" 洗腦, lit. \"brain wash\" or \"Red Guards\" from \"Hóngwèibīng\" 红卫兵), and a few are hybrid words or loanblends that combine a borrowing with a native element (\"Taoism/Daoism\" from \"Tao/Dao\" \"the Way\" and -ism suffix or \"Peking duck\" from \"Běijīng kǎoyā\" 北京烤鴨 \"roast Beijing duck\"). Besides English \"Taoism/Daoism\", other common \"-ism\" borrowings include \"Confucianism\", \"Mohism\", and \"Maoism\". While most Chinese loanwords have a \"foreign appearance\", monosyllabic ones such as li or tong are more likely to remain \"alien\" than loanblends with English elements such as Taoism or tangram that are more readily \"naturalized\" (Yuan 1981: 250).\n\nThe \"Oxford English Dictionary\" (2nd ed.) records the progression of occurrences over the succeeding centuries: \"Tao\" 1736, \"Tau\" 1747, \"Taouism\" and \"Taouist\" 1838, \"Taoistic\" 1856, \"Tao-ism\" 1858, \"Taoism\" 1903, \"Daoism\" 1948, \"Dao\" and \"Daoist\" 1971.\n\nLinguists distinguish between hypercorrection, the erroneous use of a nonstandard word form due to a belief that it is more accurate than the corresponding standard form (for instance, the /fra:ns/ pronunciation for France /fræns/), and hyperforeignism, the misapplication of foreign loanword pronunciation patterns extended beyond their use in the original language (such as dropping the \"t\" in claret /ˈklærɪt/). \"Taoism\" is neither a hypercorrection because it originated from a spelling misunderstanding rather than a phonemic modification, nor a hyperforeignism because it is not an attempt to sound more Chinese (Carr 1990: 68).\n\nThe pronunciation of \"Taoism\" as instead of is not unique and typifies many Chinese borrowings in English (e.g., gung-ho, Cohen 1989) that are distorted owing to Chinese romanization systems. Wade-Giles \"I Ching\" and \"T'ai Chi Ch'üan\" (Pinyin \"Yìjīng\" and \"Tàijíquán\") are two common cases in which the Pinyin romanization more accurately represents Chinese pronunciation than Wade–Giles (Carr 1990: 67-68). \"I Ching\" transcribes the Chinese /i t͡ɕiŋ/ 易經 Book of Changes, but some English speakers pronounce it /ˈaɪ tʃiːŋ/, reading Chinese \"I\" /i/ as the English pronoun \"I\" /aɪ/ and the aspirated alveolo-palatal \"Ch\" / t͡ɕʰ/ as the fortis postalveolar /tʃ/. The \"T'ai Chi Ch'üan\" martial art /tʰaɪ̯ t͡ɕi t͡ɕʰy̯ɛn/ 太极拳 is commonly misspelled \"Tai Chi Chuan\" (Pinyin \"Daijizhuan\") without umlaut or apostrophes (the Wikipedia article is titled Tai chi), and is similarly naturalized as English /ˌtaɪ ˌtʃi ˈtʃwɑn/.\n\nEnglish dictionaries provide some insights into the \"Daoism\"/\"Taoism\" pronunciation issue. For over a century, British and American lexicographers glossed the pronunciation of \"Taoism\" as (), but gradually began changing it to () and added \"Daoism\" entries.\n\nOne scholar analyzed \"Taoism\" pronunciation glosses in general-purpose English dictionaries, comparing twelve published in Great Britain (1933–1989) and eleven published in the United States (1948–1987). After standardizing the various dictionary respelling systems into the International Phonetic Alphabet, there are four types of \"Taoism\" glosses involving prescriptive linguistics and descriptive linguistics: () is prescriptively accurate, () describes a common distortion, and the alternate (, ) and (, ) glosses are more comprehensive (Carr 1990: 63-64).\n\nNine of the twelve British-English dictionaries gloss the pronunciation of \"Taoism\" as (), and three give (, ). The eleven American-English references haves more varied glosses: (, ) six times, () twice, (, ) twice, and () once (\"OAD\", 1979). The respective first accurate American and British lexicographic glosses for \"Taoism\" were \"\"douizm; tou\"-\" (\"Webster's Second\", 1934) and \"Also Daoism and with pronunc. (dau•iz'm)\" (\"OED supplement\", 1986). Within the present sample of English-language dictionaries, the American publications were faster to rectify the mistaken () pronunciation to () (Carr 1990: 64-65).\n\nBesides () and () pronunciation variations for the consonant \"T\" in \"Taoism\", the dictionaries also glosses the vocalic () diphthong as (//), (//), and the triphthong (//), which may be owing to the old \"Taouism\", \"Tauism\", and \"Tavism\" variant spellings (Carr 1990: 64). For instance, the 1989 \"OED2\" mixed gloss \"(ˈtɑːəʊɪz(ə)m, ˈdaʊɪz(ə)m)\" combines the (//) pronunciation from the 1933 \"OED1\" \"Taoism\" entry and the (}) from the 1986 \"OED supplement\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18743899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18743899", "title": "Denise Spellberg", "text": "Denise Spellberg\n\nDenise A. Spellberg (born c. 1958) is an American scholar of Islamic history. She is an associate professor of history and Middle Eastern Studies at the University of Texas at Austin. Spellberg holds a BA from Smith College (1980) and a PhD (1989) from Columbia University.\n\nSpellberg is the author of \"Politics, Gender, and the Islamic Past: The Legacy of 'A'isha Bint Abi Bakr\", a widely cited work on the portrayal of Aisha in Islamic tradition. In particular, Spellberg shows how later commentators reinterpreted Aisha's role at the Battle of Camel (656,) where she rode her camel into battle against Ali but stayed inside the howdah on its back with the curtains closed, as an argument that women should never participate in public affairs.\n\nIn 2008 Spellberg was involved in a controversy over Sherry Jones' historical novel \"The Jewel of Medina\". Random House, which intended to publish the novel later that year, had sent Spellberg galley proofs, hoping for a publishable comment. Spellberg sharply criticized the novel from a historical perspective, and also reportedly told Random House publishing the book might result in violence by radical Muslims. Subsequently, Random House indefinitely postponed publication, citing concerns about violence from extremists.\n\nAsra Nomani wrote about the events in an opinion piece for \"The Wall Street Journal\", in which she characterized Spellberg as \"the instigator of the trouble\". In the wake of Nomani's article, a number of publications printed pieces criticizing Spellberg's actions as tantamount to advocating censorship.\n\nSpellberg responded in the \"Wall Street Journal\", contesting Nomani's characterization of her as the \"instigator\" of the book's cancellation. She wrote that she was not advocating censorship, but rather offering her professional assessment of the book\nand a warning about the potential reaction from some Muslims, stating \"I felt it was my professional responsibility to counter this novel's fallacious representation of a very real woman's life.\"\n\nIn 2013, Spellberg published \"Thomas Jefferson's Qur'an: Islam and the Founders\". The book discusses a copy of the Qur'an owned by Thomas Jefferson as well as Jefferson's views on Islam, arguing that his vision for religious freedom in the United States specifically included Muslims.\n\n"}
{"id": "28150141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28150141", "title": "Dutch Crossing", "text": "Dutch Crossing\n\nDutch Crossing is an interdisciplinary peer-reviewed academic journal devoted to all aspects of Low Countries studies: history and art history, Dutch and Flemish (and occasionally Afrikaans) literary and cultural studies, Dutch language, Dutch as a foreign language, and intercultural and transnational studies. Its stated purpose is to cover \"all aspects of 'Global Dutch', not only the Netherlands and the Dutch-speaking part of Belgium but also other places where Dutch historically had or continues to have an impact, including parts of the Americas, Southern Africa, and South-East Asia.\" A special focus concerns exchanges between the Low Countries and the English-speaking world in all periods from the late Middle Ages to the present day. \"Dutch Crossing\" is the official journal of the Association for Low Countries Studies.\"\n\nSince 1977 the journal has been edited at the Department of Dutch, first at Bedford College, Regent’s Park, then since 1983 at University College London. From modest beginnings as a departmental magazine it developed into one of the main English language journals of interdisciplinary Low Countries studies, and in 1997 it became the journal of the Association for Low Countries Studies. In the 2009 Journal Awards of the Council of Editors of Learned Journals, \"Dutch Crossing\" received an honourable mention in the Phoenix Award for Significant Editorial Achievement. The journal is published by Maney Publishing and appears three times per year.\n\nThe name 'Dutch Crossing' reflects the journal's focus on exchanges between the Low Countries and the Anglophone world, although the term, like many similar English expressions with 'Dutch' from the 17th century when the two countries were frequently at war, was originally meant pejoratively.\n\nDutch Crossing is abstracted in the ISI Web of Science databases and included in the initial lists for history and linguistics of the European Reference Index for the Humanities (ERIH) by the European Science Foundation (ESF). It is also abstracted and indexed in:\n\n"}
{"id": "12582354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12582354", "title": "East Wenatchee Clovis Site", "text": "East Wenatchee Clovis Site\n\nThe East Wenatchee Clovis Site (also called the Richey-Roberts Clovis Site or the Richey Clovis Cache) is a deposit of prehistoric Clovis points and other implements, dating to roughly 11,000 radiocarbon years before present or about 13,000 calendar years before present, found near the city of East Wenatchee, Washington in 1987. Accidentally discovered in an apple orchard, by Mark Mickels (National Geographic, 1988) it yielded some of the largest stone Clovis points known to science. After controversy over its excavation, the site was sealed off from further digging from 1992 until 2007.\n\nThe site was accidentally uncovered by Mark Mickels, and also by farmworker Moises Aguirre Calzada on May 27, 1987, while installing an irrigation line. His digging unearthed about two dozen stone bifaces, which were at first mistaken for tools left by contemporary Indian tribes. Orchard co-owner Rich Roberts and his wife Joanne later showed the items to local amateur archaeologist Russell S. Congdon, who identified them as Clovis tools and subsequently contacted archaeologist Robert Mierendorf. The tool kit manufactured by the Clovis culture is one of the earliest known in the Americas, persisting from about 11,050 to 10,800 radiocarbon years BP.\n\nThe site was named by National Park Service archaeologist Robert Mierendorf, the first professional scientist to examine the cache. After the Robertses and their orcharding partner Dr. Mack Richey opened the site to further study, beginning in 1988, it was referred to as the Richey-Roberts Clovis Site and, later, the Richey Clovis Cache.\n\nAn excavation in April 1988, led by Peter J. Mehringer of Washington State University, with a team of leading local and national authorities in Paleo-Indian Archaeology and members of the Confederated Tribes of the Colville Reservation, discovered 22 more stone and bone tools, but removed only five for laboratory study. Richey, who in November 1988 bought out his partners and became sole owner of the Clovis site, replaced the Mehringer team with New York archaeologist R. Michael Gramly, who then led another dig in October 1990. This excavation became controversial, with members of the Confederated Tribes of the Colville Reservation protesting the state government’s granting of an archaeological permit for Gramly, whose statements and writings questioned a link between Clovis Paleo-Indians and modern Indians. Gramly had also argued against new laws that, in his view, tied the hands of U.S. archaeologists in favor of protecting Indian cultural heritage. In addition, the Tribes objected to the excavation of the site for personal profit (see below).\n\nIn light of the dispute, Gramly’s dig proceeded on a shortened time frame, and ultimately removed approximatively 69 artifacts including tools, debitage, and bone fragments before closing the site. An uncertain number of items, including two more bone artifacts, were left in place. In 1992 Richey donated all the recovered Clovis artifacts and sold the archaeological rights to the 35-square-meter site for $250,000 to the Washington State Historical Society, which owns them in perpetuity. The sale contract stipulated that no archaeological work could take place for 15 years after the purchase; that moratorium expired June 1, 2007, although no new scientific digging has since taken place. Richey sold the entire orchard to a new owner in 2004. At this time what was once an archaeological site was re-filled with dirt, covered with a cement slab, and restored to be part of the orchard.\n\nThe East Wenatchee Clovis Site yielded 36 ancient stone tools and 12 transversely beveled rods of carved and in some cases incised mammoth or mastodon bone, plus scores of stone flakes or \"debitage\" left over from tool manufacture or maintenance. It was the only intact Clovis site ever found in Washington state, and one of many significant prehistoric finds in the state’s history. The cache held the largest Clovis points then known to science, one of them 9.15 inches (23.25 cm) long, knapped from white agate (also called chalcedony). Before this discovery the largest Clovis points were only measured at around 6 inches. Much of the cache remained \"in context\" for scientists to explore, meaning it was not overly disturbed by digging prior to archaeological work. Most major Clovis caches have only been explored after they were unearthed and scattered by road projects and construction work, or removed to private collections.\n\nSome researchers postulated that the cache might have represented a large habitation camp; a hunting toolkit, buried and then dug up for seasonal stalking of game; a ceremonial or funeral site; or a ritual offering to stave off ecological harm brought on by the eruption of nearby Glacier Peak, 11,250 radiocarbon years BP, even though the presence of large amounts of debitage and fragmented bone is a good indicator that the site didn't represent a cache at all and the Glacier Peak eruption is thought to have occurred over two centuries before the emergence of the Clovis culture. Some members of Northwest Indian tribes claimed the Clovis hunters as ancestors, and argued against exploring the site out of respect for the dead. The debate helped frame archaeologists’ relationships with local tribes in future research.\n\nThe site continues to operate as a commercial apple orchard as of 2007. As researchers Ruth Kirk and Richard D. Daugherty wrote, \"Despite all the care taken, certain risks to the site remain. How will orchard chemicals and irrigation water affect bone still in the ground? And what about ongoing bioturbation, the disturbance caused by roots and rodents? The site in the orchard was essentially undisturbed when its window to the past was opened, albeit slightly. It has been sampled but not fully excavated. Enigma remains.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50335458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50335458", "title": "Encyclopedia of Cybernetics", "text": "Encyclopedia of Cybernetics\n\nThe Encyclopedia of Cybernetics () is a Ukrainian language encyclopedia of computer science first published in Kiev in 1973, with Victor Glushkov serving as its chief editor. The encyclopedia comprises two volumes containing over 1700 articles, primarily on topics in theoretical computer science, systems science, information theory, optimization and control theory. The articles were composed by some 600 scientists from various disciplines, affiliated with 102 educational and industrial institutions located throughout the Soviet Union. In 1974 the encyclopedia was translated into Russian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "795780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=795780", "title": "Ethos", "text": "Ethos\n\nEthos ( or ) is a Greek word meaning \"character\" that is used to describe the guiding beliefs or ideals that characterize a community, nation, or ideology. The Greeks also used this word to refer to the power of music to influence emotions, behaviours, and even morals. Early Greek stories of Orpheus exhibit this idea in a compelling way. The word's use in rhetoric is closely based on the Greek terminology used by Aristotle in his concept of the three artistic proofs or modes of persuasion.\n\n\"Ethos\" (, ; \"plurals:\" \"ethe\", ; \"ethea\", ) is a Greek word originally meaning \"accustomed place\" (as in \"the habitats of horses\", \"Iliad\" 6.511, 15.268), \"custom, habit\", equivalent to Latin \"mores\".\n\n\"Ethos\" forms the root of \"ethikos\" (), meaning \"moral, showing moral character\". As an adjective in the neuter plural form \"ta ethika\" (), used for the study of morals, it is the origin of the modern English word \"ethics\".\n\nIn modern usage, ethos denotes the disposition, character, or fundamental values particular to a specific person, people, corporation, culture, or movement. For example, the poet and critic T. S. Eliot wrote in 1940 that \"the general ethos of the people they have to govern determines the behaviour of politicians\". Similarly the historian Orlando Figes wrote in 1996 that in Soviet Russia of the 1920s \"the ethos of the Communist party dominated every aspect of public life\".\nEthos may change in response to new ideas or forces. For example, according to the Jewish historian Afrie Krampf, ideas of economic modernization which were imported into Palestine in the 1930s brought about \"the abandonment of the agrarian ethos and the reception of...the ethos of rapid development\".\n\nIn rhetoric, ethos is one of the three artistic proofs (\"pistis\", πίστις) or modes of persuasion (other principles being \"logos\" and \"pathos\") discussed by Aristotle in 'Rhetoric' as a component of argument. Speakers must establish ethos from the start. This can involve \"moral competence\" only; Aristotle however broadens the concept to include expertise and knowledge. Ethos is limited, in his view, by what the speaker says. Others however contend that a speaker's ethos extends to and is shaped by the overall moral character and history of the speaker—that is, what people think of his or her character before the speech has even begun (cf Isocrates).\n\nAccording to Aristotle, there are three categories of ethos:\n\n\nIn a sense, ethos does not belong to the speaker but to the audience. Thus, it is the audience that determines whether a speaker is a high- or a low-ethos speaker. Violations of ethos include:\n\n\nCompletely dismissing an argument based on any of the above violations of ethos is an informal fallacy (Appeal to motive). The argument may indeed be suspect; but is not, in itself, invalid.\n\nFor Aristotle, a speaker's ethos was a rhetorical strategy employed by an orator whose purpose was to \"inspire trust in his audience\" (\"Rhetorica\" 1380). \"Ethos\" was therefore achieved through the orator's \"good sense, good moral character, and goodwill\", and central to Aristotelian virtue ethics was the notion that this \"good moral character\" was increased in virtuous degree by habit (\"Rhetorica\" 1380). Aristotle links virtue, habituation, and \"ethos\" most succinctly in Book II of \"Nichomachean Ethics\": \"Virtue, then, being of two kinds, intellectual and moral, intellectual virtue in the main owes both its birth and its growth to teaching [...] while moral virtue comes about as a result of habit, whence also its name \"ethike\" is one that is formed by a slight variation from the word \"ethos\" (habit)\" (952). Discussing women and rhetoric, scholar Karlyn Kohrs Campbell notes that entering the public sphere was considered an act of moral transgression for females of the nineteenth century: \"Women who formed moral reform and abolitionist societies, and who made speeches, held conventions, and published newspapers, entered the public sphere and thereby lost their claims to purity and piety\" (13). Crafting an ethos within such restrictive moral codes, therefore, meant adhering to membership of what Nancy Fraser and Michael Warner have theorized as counterpublics. While Warner contends that members of counterpublics are afforded little opportunity to join the dominant public and therefore exert true agency, Nancy Fraser has problematized Habermas's conception of the public sphere as a dominant \"social totality\" by theorizing \"subaltern counterpublics\", which function as alternative publics that represent \"parallel discursive arenas where members of subordinated social groups invent and circulate counterdiscourses, which in turn permit them to formulate oppositional interpretations of their identities, interests, and needs\" (67).\n\nThough feminist rhetorical theorists have begun to offer more nuanced ways to conceive of ethos, they remain cognizant of how these classical associations have shaped and still do shape women's use of the rhetorical tool. Johanna Schmertz draws on Aristotelian ethos to reinterpret the term alongside feminist theories of subjectivity, writing that, \"Instead of following a tradition that, it seems to me, reads ethos somewhat in the manner of an Aristotelian quality proper to the speaker's identity, a quality capable of being deployed as needed to fit a rhetorical situation, I will ask how ethos may be dislodged from identity and read in such a way as to multiply the positions from which women may speak\" (83). Rhetorical scholar and professor Kate Ronald's claim that \"ethos is the appeal residing in the tension between the speaker's private and public self\", (39) also presents a more postmodern view of ethos that links credibility and identity. Similarly, Nedra Reynolds and Susan Jarratt echo this view of ethos as a fluid and dynamic set of identifications, arguing that \"these split selves are guises, but they are not distortions or lies in the philosopher's sense. Rather they are 'deceptions' in the sophistic sense: recognitions of the ways one is positioned multiply differently\" (56).\n\nRhetorical scholar Michael Halloran has argued that the classical understanding of ethos \"emphasizes the conventional rather than the idiosyncratic, the public rather than the private\" (60). Commenting further on the classical etymology and understanding of \"ethos\", Halloran illuminates the interdependence between \"ethos\" and cultural context by arguing that \"To have ethos is to manifest the virtues most valued by the culture to and for which one speaks\" (60). While scholars do not all agree on the dominant sphere in which ethos may be crafted, some agree that ethos is formed through the negotiation between private experience and the public, rhetorical act of self-expression. Karen Burke LeFevre's argument in \"Invention as Social Act\" situates this negotiation between the private and the public, writing that ethos \"appears in that socially created space, in the 'between', the point of intersection between speaker or writer and listener or reader\" (45-46).\n\nAccording to Nedra Reynolds, \"ethos, like postmodern subjectivity, shifts and changes over time, across texts, and around competing spaces\" (336). However, Reynolds additionally discusses how one might clarify the meaning of ethos within rhetoric as expressing inherently communal roots. This stands in direct opposition to what she describes as the claim \"that ethos can be faked or 'manipulated'\" because individuals would be formed by the values of their culture and not the other way around (336). Rhetorical scholar John Oddo also suggests that ethos is negotiated across a community, and not simply a manifestation of the self (47). In the era of mass-mediated communication, Oddo contends, one's ethos is often created by journalists and dispersed over multiple news texts. With this in mind, Oddo coins the term intertextual ethos, the notion that a public figure's \"ethos is constituted within and across a range of mass media voices\" (48).\n\nIn \"Black Women Writers and the Trouble with Ethos\", scholar Coretta Pittman notes that race has been generally absent from theories of ethos construction, and that this concept is troubling for black women. Pittman writes, \"Unfortunately, in the history of race relations in America, black Americans' ethos ranks low among other racial and ethnic groups in the United States. More often than not, their moral characters have been associated with a criminalized and sexualized ethos in visual and print culture\" (43).\n\nThe ways in which characters were constructed is important when considering ethos, or character, in Greek tragedy. Augustus Taber Murray explains that the depiction of a character was limited by the circumstances under which Greek tragedies were presented. These include the single unchanging scene, necessary use of the chorus, small number of characters limiting interaction, large outdoor theatres, and the use of masks, which all influenced characters to be more formal and simple. Murray also declares that the inherent characteristics of Greek tragedies are important in the makeup of the characters. One of these is the fact that tragedy characters were nearly always mythical characters. This limited the character, as well as the plot, to the already well-known myth from which the material of the play was taken. The other characteristic is the relatively short length of most Greek plays. This limited the scope of the play and characterization, so that the characters were defined by one overriding motivation toward a certain objective from the beginning of the play.\n\nHowever, Murray clarifies that strict constancy is not always the rule in Greek tragedy characters. To support this, he points out the example of Antigone who, even though she strongly defies Creon in the beginning of the play, begins to doubt her cause and plead for mercy as she is led to her execution.\n\nSeveral other aspects of the character element in ancient Greek tragedy are worth noting. One of these, which C. Garton discusses, is the fact that either because of contradictory action or incomplete description, the character cannot be viewed as an individual, or the reader is left confused about the character. One method of reconciling this would be to consider these characters to be flat, or type-caste, instead of round. This would mean that most of the information about the character centers around one main quality or viewpoint. Comparable to the flat character option, the reader could also view the character as a symbol. Examples of this might be the Eumenides as vengeance, or Clytemnestra as symbolizing ancestral curse. Yet another means of looking at character, according to Tycho von Wilamowitz and Howald, is the idea that characterisation is not important. This idea is maintained by the theory that the play is meant to affect the viewer or reader scene by scene, with attention being only focused on the section at hand. This point of view also holds that the different figures in a play are only characterised by the situation surrounding them, and only enough so that their actions can be understood.\n\nGaret makes three more observations about character in Greek tragedy. The first is an abundant variety of types of characters in Greek tragedy. His second observation is that the reader or viewer's need for characters to display a unified identity that is similar to human nature is usually fulfilled. Thirdly, characters in tragedies include incongruities and idiosyncrasies.\n\nAnother aspect stated by Garet is that tragedy plays are composed of language, character, and action, and the interactions of these three components; these are fused together throughout the play. He explains that action normally determines the major means of characterisation. Another principle he states is the importance of these three components' effect on each other; the important repercussion of this being character's impact on action.\n\nAugustus Taber Murray also examines the importance and degree of interaction between plot and character. He does this by discussing Aristotle's statements about plot and character in his Poetics: that plot can exist without character, but character cannot exist without plot, and so character is secondary to plot. Murray maintains that Aristotle did not mean that complicated plot should hold the highest place in a tragedy play. This is because the plot was, more often than not, simple and therefore not a major point of tragic interest. Murray conjectures that people today do not accept Aristotle's statement about character and plot because to modern people, the most memorable things about tragedy plays are often the characters. However, Murray does concede that Aristotle is correct in that \"[t]here can be no portrayal of character [...] without at least a skeleton outline of plot\".\n\nEthos, or character, also appears in the visual art of famous or mythological ancient Greek events in murals, on pottery, and sculpture, referred to generally as pictorial narrative. Aristotle even praised the ancient Greek painter Polygnotos because his paintings included characterization. The way in which the subject and his actions are portrayed in visual art can convey the subject's ethical character and through this the work's overall theme, just as effectively as poetry or drama can. This characterisation portrayed men as they ought to be, which is the same as Aristotle's idea of what ethos or character should be in tragedy. (Stansbury-O'Donnell, p. 178) Professor Mark D. Stansbury-O'Donnell states that pictorial narratives often had ethos as its focus, and was therefore concerned with showing the character's moral choices. (Stansbury-O'Donnell, p. 175) David Castriota, agreeing with Stansbury-O'Donnell's statement, says that the main way Aristotle considered poetry and visual arts to be on equal levels was in character representation and its effect on action. However, Castriota also maintains about Aristotle's opinion that \"his interest has to do with the influence that such ethical representation may exert upon the public\". Castriota also explains that according to Aristotle, \"[t]he activity of these artists is to be judged worthy and useful above all because exposure of their work is beneficial to the polis\". Accordingly, this was the reason for the representation of character, or ethos, in public paintings and sculptures. In order to portray the character's choice, the pictorial narrative often shows an earlier scene than when the action was committed. Stansbury-O'Donnell gives an example of this in the form of a picture by the ancient Greek artist Exekia which shows the Greek hero Ajax planting his sword in the ground in preparation to commit suicide, instead of the actual suicide scene. (Stansbury-O'Donnell, p. 177.) Additionally, Castriota explains that ancient Greek art expresses the idea that character was the major factor influencing the outcome of the Greeks' conflicts against their enemies. Because of this, \"ethos was the essential variable in the equation or analogy between myth and actuality\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12859220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12859220", "title": "Fairy path", "text": "Fairy path\n\nAccording to folklore a fairy path (or 'passage', 'avenue', or 'pass') is a route taken by fairies usually in a straight line and between sites of traditional significance, such as fairy forts or raths (a class of circular earthwork dating from the Iron Age), \"airy\" (eerie) mountains and hills, thorn bushes, springs, lakes, rock outcrops, and Stone Age monuments. Ley lines and spirit paths, such as with corpse roads, have some similarities with these fairy paths. A fairy ring is also a path used by fairies, but in a circle, for dancing, as described by poet W. B. Yeats, \"...the fairies dance in a place apart, Shaking their milk-white feet in a ring...\" The concept is usually associated with Celtic folklore, especially that of Ireland.\n\nIn some parts of Ireland, Brittany and Germany there were fairy or spirit paths that while being invisible nevertheless had such perceived geographical reality in the minds of the country people that building practices were adapted to ensure they were not obstructed. A significant number of the characteristics of fairy paths are shared in common with ley lines. In many parts of Northern Europe the round barrows were the traditional homes of the fairies, elves, or trolls and were avoided by the country folk. Such places were Fairy Toot in Somerset, Elf Howe barrow near Folkton, Yorkshire, and a round barrow at Beedon in Berkshire. Cornwall was and is a stronghold of fairy lore: fairies are said to dance on Carn Gluze, near St Just in Penwith. In Danish Jutland there was a belief that \"Barrow-folk\" dwelt in barrows and were descendants of fallen angels cast out of Heaven. Likewise, it was considered bad luck to let cattle graze on any place where the Elf-folk have been, or to let the cattle mingle with the large blue cattle of the elves. However, all evils may be averted if one were to ask at an \"Elf-barrow\" for permission to graze cattle on their mound. Some Danish \"Elf-barrows\" included one near Galtebjerg, another not far from Kalundborg; one between Thisted and Aalborg that was said to be the home of an elfin smith; two near Sundby where a troll-smith would ride from one to the other followed by his apprentices and journeymen; and one at Tröstrup where according to legend a giant was buried, and it was said his daughter wandered across the fields and one day met a ploughman whom she took back to her father who then set the man free, fearing that they'd be driven out of their barrow. In Sweden similar beliefs existed and one barrow called \"Helvetesbacke\" (\"Hell's mouth\") that lies near Kråktorps gård, Småland, was claimed to be the burial mound of Odin. In Germany the Wild Troop of Rodenstein was said to ride a straight path between the castles of Rodenstein and Schnellert. Also throughout Europe are Corpse roads, which are generally believed to be of the same basic belief as \"fairy paths\" and most likely share an origin. In Germany and the Netherlands in particular, these tend to be straight invisible lines and are known by a variety of names including \"Geisterweg\" (\"ghost-way\" or \"ghost-road\") and \"Helweg\" (\"hell-way\" or \"hell-road\") in German and \"Doodweg\" (\"death-way\" or \"death-road\") in Dutch. A similarly straight road did however run straight over various burial mounds at Rösaring, Lassa in southern Sweden.\n\nIn Ireland, people who had illnesses or other misfortune, were said to live in houses that were \"in the way\" or in a \"contrary place\", obstructing a fairy path. An example is that of a family in which four children sickened and died, leaving the doctors baffled. The fifth child sickened and was near death, only to make a sudden and full recovery. The father told the doctor that he had consulted a wise woman who informed him that his new house extension blocked a fairy path between two fairy forts, whereupon he demolished it and his child became healthy again.\n\nAn example of this fairy path straightness is provided by an account concerning a croft (now a cattle shed) at Knockeencreen, Brosna, County Kerry. In an interview in the 1980s, the last human occupant told of the troubles his grandfather had experienced there, with his cattle periodically and inexplicably dying. The front door is exactly opposite the back door. The grandfather was informed by a passing Gypsy that the dwelling stands on a fairy path running between two hills. The Gypsy advised the grandfather to keep the doors slightly ajar at night to allow the fairies free passage. The advice was heeded and the problem ceased. It so happens that the building is indeed on a straight line drawn between two local hilltops, and is, moreover, at one end of a long, straight track.\n\nThe fairies processed from Rath Ringlestown in Ireland every night and parents brought their children in before the fairies were due to pass. The path passed round several bushes which were left undisturbed by the locals. A man who cut down one bush could not get it to burn and sickened and died within a short while as a supposed consequence of his actions. The route also passed between two mud-wall houses and a man who was out at the wrong time was found dead; the fairies having taken him for getting in the way of the procession.\nA traditional folk tale from the Southern Shore of Newfoundland, Canada, concerns a young married couple who discovered that they had built their house on a path used by the good people, and the steps that couple take to rid themselves of fairy mischief. It seems therefore that the fairy folk had emigrated together with their human counterparts or had been in Canada from time immemorial.\n\nHome-owners have knocked corners from houses because the corner blocked the fairy path, and cottages have been built with the front and back doors in line, so that the owners could, in need, leave them both open and let the fairies troop through all night.\n\nIt was believed that a house built on a fairy path would suffer from midnight noises or supernatural manifestations. Ill-luck in the form of sick farm animals or personal illness could be the result and one remedy was to build small fires in several places along the fairy path, using fire from the blessed fire of Saint John's Eve that was lit every year at sunset on 23 June.\n\nSome builders used to use a technique to see if the planned construction was going to be on a fairy path; they would map out the floor plan in the earth and place a pile of stones at each corner and leave it overnight, if the stones were undisturbed it was safe to build, otherwise the work would not continue. There is another theme that states if one's house is on a fairy path, one must leave the doors and windows open at night, front and back, to allow fairies to pass through. Builders were also advised against using white quartz in their stonework, as it is said to be a fairy stone.\n\nWise-women were thought to be able to advise home builders of the existence of fairy paths, however in most folk-tales they are only consulted after the event and as a result of disturbances, bad luck, etc.\n\nA building placed on a fairy path would be demolished by the fairy folk, at least twice, often remaining standing however on the third attempt.\n\nPaths that the fairies travel along are usually stated as being best avoided, however they also had certain benefits to humans, such as with 'trods' in the West of England. These are a straight-line fairy path in the grass of a field with a different shade of green to the rest. People with rheumatism sought relief by walking along these tracks, though animals avoid them. Great danger was still very much associated with using these paths at times when a supernatural procession might be using them. Fairy rings have certain elements in common with this phenomenon and were seen as 'gateways' into the realm of supernatural beings.\n\nThe Tylwyth teg of Wales have paths on which it is death for a mortal to walk.\n\nThe Breton Ankou, who is king of the dead, and his subjects have their own particular paths along which they process.\n\nIrish fairy paths are said to also exist under water, reminiscent of causeways in marshes at sacred sites and those to crannogs and other islands. These paths, only used by the fairy folk, ran from one island to another and were paved with coral, making them and their travellers visible to fishermen in their boats above.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "142464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142464", "title": "Farce", "text": "Farce\n\nIn theatre, a farce is a comedy that aims at entertaining the audience through situations that are highly exaggerated, extravagant, and thus improbable. Farce is also characterized by physical humor, the use of deliberate absurdity or nonsense, and broadly stylized performances. It is also often set in one particular location, where all events occur. Farces have been written for the stage and film.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFarces are particularly popular in Marathi and Gujarati language theatre. A few such examples:\n\n\n\n\n\nFollowing stage shows of Umer Shareef are extremely popular:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2269886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2269886", "title": "Gender roles in Islam", "text": "Gender roles in Islam\n\nThe Quran, the holiest book in Islam, indicates that men and women are spiritual equals. The Quran 4:124 states:\n\n\"If any do deeds of righteousness be they male or female and have faith, they will enter Heaven, and not the least injustice will be done to them.\"\nBut this notion of equality has not been reflected in many of the laws in Muslim-based institutions.\n\nThe Quran does not specify specific gender roles for women. However, in Islamic practice, gender roles manifest themselves, partially because men and women are sometimes allotted different rights and different cultural expectations.\n\nCultural traditions of nonreligious origin impact gender roles, prevailing cultural norms, and the interpretation of the Quran and other Islamic texts.\n\nSome Reformist and feminist scholars have argued that the concept of guardianship has formed the basis of particular gender roles in Muslim societies. Women are often expected to be obedient wives and mothers staying within the family environment and men are expected to be protectors and caretakers of the family. However, the majority of Muslim scholars agree that women are not obligated to serve their husbands or do housework or do any kind of work at home.\n\nAccording to Sayyid Qutb, a prominent member of the Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood in the 1950s and 60s, the Quran \"gives the man the right of 'guardianship' or 'superiority' over the family structure in order to prevent dissension and friction between the spouses. The equity of this system lies in the fact that God both favoured the man with the necessary qualities and skills for the 'guardianship' and also charged him with the duty to provide for the structure's upkeep.\" Qutb's ideologies are still impactful today, influencing such prominent Middle Eastern leaders as Ayman Zawahiri and Osama bin Laden.\n\nSeveral passages of the Quran deal with acceptable dress for both men and women. Sura 24, Verses 30-31 states:\n\n\"And tell the believing men to lower their gaze and be modest. That is purer for them. Lo! Allah is aware of what they do. And tell the believing women to lower their gaze and be modest, and to display of their adornment only that which is apparent, and to draw their veils over their bosoms, and not to reveal their adornment save to [those relatives who fall within bounds of close relationship explained in the Qur’an]...\" Chapter 24, Verses 30-31.\n\nHowever, there are many different interpretations of what “modesty” requires. The Quran requires Muslim women to dress modestly and to, at the very least, cover their breasts and genitals.\n\nThe law of Hijab, on the other hand, states that the whole female body (not including the face and hands) should be covered, when a woman leaves her home.\n\nFor Friday prayers, by custom, Muslim congregations segregate men, women, and children in separate groups. On other days the women and children pray at home.Men are expected to offer the five daily prayers at the nearest mosque. Muhammad specifically allowed Muslim women to attend mosques and pray behind men. Mohammad said 'Do not prevent your women from going to the mosque, even though their houses are better for them.\" which implies it is better for women to stay at home. \"A woman’s prayer in her house is better than her prayer in her courtyard, and her prayer in her bedroom is better than her prayer in her house.\" (Reported by Abu Dawud in al-Sunan, Baab maa jaa’a fee khurooj al-nisaa’ ilaa’l-masjid. See also Saheeh al-Jaami‘, no. 3833).\n\nWomen are prohibited from praying at a Mosque in Surinam.\n\nSexuality as discussed in Islamic texts is generally confined to the context of heterosexual marriage, and in all cases modesty and chastity are strongly encouraged. Pre-marital sex and homosexuality are forbidden, and abortion is largely discouraged except in cases where there are medical risks for the mother. Sexuality in Islam is often separated in terms of male versus female sexuality, marital versus pre-marital versus extramarital sexuality, and heterosexuality versus homosexuality as is pointed out by Abdessamad Dialmy.\n\nThe Islamic tradition recognizes the sexual desires of both men and women. In many classical arguments, it is the husband's duty to fulfill his wife's sexual needs, which are part of her rights as a married woman. This argument is often paired with the statement that this is how society prevents social unrest (fitna). According to Kecia Ali, \"Classical texts note the importance of female fulfillment, while stressing the wives' duty to remain sexually available to their husbands...whereas contemporary authors, focus on women's sexual rights within their marriages, attempting to prove the importance of female pleasure by highlighting the separation of sex from reproduction and the importance of the female orgasm.\" Classical authors also stress the importance of male guardianship as the required to protect the chastity and modesty of women in their care.\n\nTraditional Islam considers the heterosexual relationship between a man and a woman the only acceptable relationship. Within this traditional relationship, the male is allowed more room for expression of his sexual rights than the female is as mentioned above. There are three types of heterosexual relationships: pre-marital, marital, and extramarital.\n\nPre-Marital Sex: Pre-marital sex is frowned upon in general; however, there are strict regulations on men and women to keep their virginity. Men and women are advised to abstain from indulging in indiscriminate sexual relationship for mere satisfaction of carnal desires. Marriage is the only acceptable means to indulge in sexual relationships, any other is considered as \"Zina\", one of the major sins in Islam. In Islamic marital practices, the male pays a dower for his wife, which is one of the essentials of a valid marriage. Other essentials are the presence of witnesses and 'Waliy' guardian. Muhammad was reported to have said: marriage is not valid without Sadaq, Waliy and Shahidain (Dower, Guardian and Witnesses respectively) The dower is a fixed amount of money or a gift of jewellery or property equivalent to it to the bride as her own. A Muslim marriage is a marriage is there usually solemnized in the mosque before an imam where guardians of both parties appear on their behalf(usually that of the female)and the marriage pronounced after payment of the Sadaq. It is not a contract that needs to be signed by the either of the parties.\n\nMarital Sex: Sex is supposed to be shared between spouses (a man and a woman). Men are technically allowed to take more than one wife, up to four wives as long as he can provide for each wife equally and not differentiate between them in a practice known as polygamy. Polygamy, though technically legal, is not a recommended practice in Islamic culture. Many sectors of the Islamic culture use the life of Muhammad as an example to live by and therefore a justification to polygamous marriages. It is only allowed for men to have multiple wives. Women cannot have multiple husbands.\n\nExtramarital Sex: Sexual affairs outside of marriage are prohibited in Islam, and result in severe punishment for the perpetrating husband or wife, upon rigid proof that they participated in an affair. The proof is given by four male witnesses or eight female witnesses (with clean background histories i.e. known to be pious Muslims), who testify to seeing the act of penetration between the extra-marital couple. Punishment for not being able to provide the required number of witnesses after accusing the defendants is eighty lashes of a whip. \n\nThe couple are given chances to plead for forgiveness to God before the punishment is carried out. If they do not, they will be punished. If both parties are married, they will both be stoned to death. If one is married, while the other is not, the former will be stoned until dead, and the latter will be given a hundred lashes. The severe punishment of an extra-marital are mainly to act as a deterrent to society from engaging in such relationships, as sex outside marriage is a major sin in Islam. The pain of the punishment is also believed to lessen punishment in the afterlife.\n\nHowever, it is important to note that these punishments can only take place under a Muslim government implementing Sharia Law, and cannot be handed out in a non-Muslim country with a different legal system.\n\nTraditional Islamic schools of thought as based on the Quran and hadith usually consider homosexuality to be a punishable sin. In much of the Islamic world, homosexuality is not legal, and in Afghanistan, Iran, Mauritania, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Sudan, the United Arab Emirates, and Yemen homosexual acts are punishable by death. Most Muslim countries continue to oppose LGBT rights movements, with the exceptions of Albania, Sierra Leone, and Mozambique. In Albania, Turkey, Bahrain, Jordan, and Mali, homosexual intercourse is legal, and there is some discussion of legalizing same-sex marriage in Albania and Mozambique.\n\nAdditionally, guardianship, gender roles, and male control over women’s sexuality are also tools that allow for the enforcement of heterosexual norms.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is practiced in many Muslim countries, especially within the Middle East, Sub-Saharan Africa, and South Asia. Opinions vary widely within and without the Muslim community as to whether female genital mutilation is condoned, condemned, or ignored by Islamic texts. Some quote a passage from Sunan Abu Dawood to tie the practice of female genital mutilation to Islam:\n\n\"“A woman used to perform circumcision in Medina [Madîna]. The Prophet said to her: 'Do not cut severely as that is better for a woman and more desirable for a husband.'”–Sunan Abu Dawûd, Book 41, #5251.\"\n\nThis passage has been used to justify female genital mutilation, as here Muhammad does not specifically prohibit the practice. However, the Quran does not mention or prescribe female genital mutilation, and the acceptance and perception of female genital mutilation varies deeply among Islamic region, sect, location, and individuals.\n\nAt least some of what is deemed to be masculine in Muslim cultures stems from the life and actions of Muhammad as put down in the Hadith. Muhammad was married to his first wife Khadija monogamously for 25 years. Upon her death he later married a total of fourteen women and had at least four concubines. In Sahih al-Bukhari 7:62:142, it is said that Muhammad sometimes had sexual relations with all his wives in one night, and in 1:5:268 he is described as having “the strength of thirty men.” This, along with a Muslim practice of measuring a man by the number of his male offspring, suggests that virility is a large traditional component of what has long been deemed \"masculine\" in the Muslim tradition. The idea of traditional masculinity is also strongly shaped by the tradition idea of femininity. Several classic Muslim authors such as Sheikh Muhammad Nefzawi and Ahmed Bin Selman describe women as beings with insatiable sexual appetites. It follows that a man who can satisfy multiple women is seen as incredibly powerful and masculine.\n\nIn addition to the relationship between Muslim masculinity and female sexuality, some concepts of Muslim masculinity stem from the relationships between Muslim men. Prominent writer of “Islamic Masculinities”, Lahoucine Ouzgane, proposes the idea that masculinity is rooted in a fear of emasculation by other men. Additionally, projecting homosexuality onto another man is often seen as a way to emasculate him while reaffirming one’s own superior virility.\n\nViewpoints regarding gender roles vary with different interpretations of the Quran, different sects of the religion, and different cultural and locational regions.\n\nSalafiyyah literally means \"that which pertains to ancestry\". It was first conceived by Muhammad Abduh and refers back to the first generation of Muslims who supported Muhammad during the seventh century. It is an Arabic term that denotes fundamentalism.\n\nThe ideas of Abdul Aziz bin Abdullah bin Baz are characteristic of much of the salafiyyah sect. Bin Baz believed that the engagement of women in “male domains” separates them from their God-given nature, eventually leading to women's misery and demise. He believed that women entering “male domains” posed a danger to Muslim society, eventually causing it to fall into moral decay. Additionally, he asserted that a woman outside the home was a woman denying her true, God-given character. He viewed the involvement of women in male domains as a detriment to the next generation, which he says may receive a worse education and less compassion from their mothers. BinBaz also thought that women should only work in certain fields—those that are within a woman's domain—such as female education, nursing and medical care. But even these must obey a strict separation of gender.\n\nThe Qur'anic and prophetic terms for \"moderation\" are reflected in the word \"wasatiyyah,\" which means the \"middle way between extremes\" and \"upright without losing balance.\"\n\nMuhammad Al-Ghazali's ( ) ideas characterize much of the wasatiyyah school of thought. His ideas are shared by other notable and influential people including Yusuf Al-Qaradawi, Abdel-Haleem AbuShaqua, and Hasan al-Turabi. Together they represent a growing modernist trend. Al-Ghazali indicated that Islam suggest a significant sense of equality between men and women. He maintained that there are traditions created by people and not by God that slow women's development and keeps them in religious ignorance, which he believes results in the degradation of the whole Muslim community. Ghazali asserts that women have been denied a say in their communities and have been restricted to domestic service. He also called for a change in Islamic thinking in general and the reevaluation of cultural traditions that are attributed wrongly as central to the Islamic faith.\n\nIn her writings, Fatema Mernissi remarks that “if women's rights are a problem for some modern Muslim men, it is neither because of the Qur'an nor the Prophet Muhammad, nor the Islamic tradition, but simply because those rights conflict with the interests of a male elite”. She questions the social norm a man is “dishonoured” if a woman in their family works outside of a domestic space. She asserts that in the male mind society is divided into an economically productive section that is public and male and a domestic sphere that is private and female and that these two areas should not mix.\n\nHeba Ra'uf (born 1965) Ra'uf stresses the importance of new interpretations of the Quran and Sunnah (traditions and sayings of Muhammad). Ra'uf argues that the advancement of women's causes in Arab and Muslim societies requires a reworking of Islamic thought. She criticizes the efforts of those who draw their inspiration exclusively from Western feminism.\n\nRa'uf dresses in the Muslim veil. This is a source of controversy within Islamic feminists. On the one hand, some feminists like Nawal El-Saadawi severely criticize the veil: “veiling and nakedness are two sides of the same coin. Both mean women are bodies without mind … ”. But Ra'uf sees wearing a veil as a means of liberation: “the veil neutralizes women's sexuality in the public sphere, making clear that they are citizens – not sexual objects”.\n\nRa'uf acknowledges that women belong in the public sphere, and she challenges any gender-based separation between the public and private spheres. She emphasizes that women's work should extend both into the private and the public sectors. “Breaking the dichotomy would give housewives more social esteem and would encourage working women to fulfill their psychological need to be good mothers and wives” \n\nUntil at least October 2017, women are disallowed to drive in Saudi Arabia, the only country in the world with such a restriction. In some areas such as Mecca they are expected to cover their hair as well. While they have gained increased access to education and a few gender segregated job opportunities, their representation in the labor market rate was barely more than 10 percent in 2002.\n\nWomen's development in Saudi Arabia has been relatively slower than in its neighboring Arab countries, especially regarding the improvement of female participation. In 2004, the fifth Jeddah Economic Forum held in Saudi Arabia had its first ever woman in key activities, with Lubna Olayan delivering the keynote speech. In the same year, the highest religious authority in Saudi Arabia reaffirmed in the 2004 hajj (Muslim pilgrimage) speech that “women should be grateful to the respectful role accorded to them by Islam as mothers”.\n\nThe Islamic Republic of Iran has witnessed a number of advancements and setbacks for women’s roles in the past 40 years, especially following the Iranian Revolution of 1979. Initially laws were enacted that restricted women’s freedom of movement such as a more strict enforcing of veiling and a segregation of the sexes in public space Educational access was restricted and certain political positions and occupations were discouraged or barred to women. Constitutional revisions that occurred in 1989 ultimately resulted in an improvement in the lives and opportunities of women. Several women have been elected to the Iranian parliament, more women take advantage of higher education opportunities, and more women participate in civil service.\n\nDuring the period of Taliban rule in Afghanistan, women were severely limited in employment opportunities. Women who had children were not allowed to work in any way, and other women were encouraged to do work only from home. Women could work in health fields but only to treat female patients. Initially, widows were hard-pressed to find any work, but an edict issued by the Taliban in 1999 allowed widows to work in a severely limited pool of employment opportunities.\n\nAfter the overthrow of the Taliban, education and employment opportunities improved. Women could again work as teachers, doctors, and civil servants. The Women Judges Association was established, and advocates female participation in the law and equality for women under the law. Still, women remain underrepresented in education. In 2011, for example, 37% of students in Afghanistan were female, and about 15% of women can read and write. However, literacy is improving with more schools open for girls and a higher attendance rate.\n\n"}
{"id": "38562187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38562187", "title": "Heinrich August Jäschke", "text": "Heinrich August Jäschke\n\nHeinrich August Jäschke (17 May 1817 in Herrnhut – 24 September 1883) was a German Tibetologist missionary and Bible translator. From 1857 to 1868 he was missionary of the Herrnhuter Brüdergemeine (the Moravian Church or Moravian Brethren) in Kyelang, Lahaul District and Spiti in North India.\n\nJäschke has been called \"the most distinguished linguist in the whole history of the Moravian Church\" by James Hutton in his \"A History of the Moravian Missions\" (1923).\n\nHeinrich August Jäschke was born on May 17, 1817 in Herrnhut, Germany. He attended Moravian schools, where he stood out for his remarkable gift for learning new languages. His ties to Moravian schools continued in adult life as he taught in various schools in Germany and Denmark. In 1847, he became co-director of the Moravian boarding schools in Niesky, Germany. The following year, he was ordained.\n\nJäschke's gift for language made him an ideal choice for the Moravian mission in Western Tibet. So in 1856 Jäschke joined two missionaries, Wilhelm Heyde and Eduard Pagel, in what is today northern India.\n\n"}
{"id": "6999780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6999780", "title": "History of terrorism", "text": "History of terrorism\n\nThe history of terrorism is a history of well-known and historically significant individuals, entities, and incidents associated, whether rightly or wrongly, with terrorism. Scholars agree that terrorism is a disputed term, and very few of those labeled terrorists describe themselves as such. It is common for opponents in a violent conflict to describe the other side as terrorists or as practicing terrorism.\n\nDepending on how broadly the term is defined, the roots and practice of terrorism can be traced at least to the 1st-century AD Sicarii Zealots, though some dispute whether the group, which assassinated collaborators with Roman rule in the province of Judea, was in fact terrorist. The first use in English of the term 'terrorism' occurred during the French Revolution's Reign of Terror, when the Jacobins, who ruled the revolutionary state, employed violence, including mass executions by guillotine, to compel obedience to the state and intimidate regime enemies. The association of the term only with state violence and intimidation lasted until the mid-19th century, when it began to be associated with non-governmental groups. Anarchism, often in league with rising nationalism and anti-monarchism, was the most prominent ideology linked with terrorism. Near the end of the 19th century, anarchist groups or individuals committed assassinations of a Russian Tsar and a U.S. President.\n\nIn the 20th century, terrorism continued to be associated with a vast array of anarchist, socialist, fascist and nationalist groups, many of them engaged in 'third world' anti-colonial struggles. Some scholars also labeled as terrorist the systematic internal violence and intimidation practiced by states such as the Stalinist Soviet Union and Nazi Germany.\n\nThough many have been proposed, there is no consensus definition of the term \"terrorism.\" This in part derives from the fact that the term is politically and emotionally charged, \"a word with intrinsically negative connotations that is generally applied to one's enemies and opponents.\"\n\nThe term terrorist is believed to have originated during the Reign of Terror (September 5, 1793July 28, 1794) in France. It was a period of eleven months during the French Revolution when the ruling Jacobins employed violence, including mass executions by guillotine, in order to intimidate the regime's enemies and compel obedience to the state. The Jacobins, most famously Robespierre, sometimes referred to themselves as \"terrorists\". Some modern scholars, however, do not consider the Reign of Terror a form of terrorism, in part because it was carried out by the French state.\n\nScholars dispute whether the roots of terrorism date back to the 1st century and the Sicarii Zealots, to the 11th century and the Al-Hashshashin, to the 19th century and the Fenian Brotherhood and Narodnaya Volya, or to other eras. The Sicarii and the Hashshashin are described below, while the Fenian Brotherhood and Narodnaya Volya are discussed in the 19th Century sub-section. Other pre-Reign of Terror historical events sometimes associated with terrorism include the Gunpowder Plot, an attempt to destroy the English Parliament in 1605.\n\nDuring the 1st century CE, the Jewish Zealots in Judaea Province rebelled, killing prominent collaborators with Roman rule. In 6 CE, according to contemporary historian Josephus, Judas of Galilee formed a small and more extreme offshoot of the Zealots, the Sicarii (\"dagger men\"). Their efforts were also directed against Jewish \"collaborators,\" including temple priests, Sadducees, Herodians, and other wealthy elites. According to Josephus, the Sicarii would hide short daggers under their cloaks, mingle with crowds at large festivals, murder their victims, and then disappear into the panicked crowds. Their most successful assassination was of the High Priest of Israel Jonathan.\n\nIn the late 11th century, the Hashshashin (a.k.a. the Assassins) arose, an offshoot of the Isma'ili sect of Shia Muslims. Led by Hassan-i Sabbah and opposed to Fatimid rule, the Hashshashin militia seized Alamut and other fortress strongholds across Persia. Hashshashin forces were too small to challenge enemies militarily, so they assassinated city governors and military commanders in order to create alliances with militarily powerful neighbors. For example, they killed Janah al-Dawla, ruler of Homs, to please Ridwan of Aleppo, and assassinated Mawdud, Seljuk emir of Mosul, as a favor to the regent of Damascus. The Hashshashin also carried out assassinations as retribution. Under some definitions of terrorism, such assassinations do not qualify as terrorism, since killing a political leader does not intimidate political enemies or inspire revolt.\n\nThe Sons of Liberty was a clandestine group that formed in Boston and New York City in the 1770s. It had a political agenda of independence of Britain's American colonies. The groups engaged in several acts that could be considered terroristic and used the deeds for propaganda purposes.\n\nOn November 5, 1605, a group of conspirators led by Robert Catesby attempted to destroy the English Parliament on its State Opening by King James I. They planned in secret to detonate a large quantity of gunpowder placed beneath the Palace of Westminster. The gunpowder was procured and placed by Guy Fawkes. The group intended to enact a coup by killing King James I and the members of both houses of Parliament. The conspirators planned to make one of the king's children a puppet monarch and then restore the Catholic faith to England. The conspirator leased a coal cellar beneath the House of Lords and began stockpiling gunpowder in 1604. As well as its primary targets, it would have killed hundreds, if not thousands, of Londoners – the most devastating act of terrorism in Britain's history, plunging the nation into a religious war. English spymasters uncovered the plot and caught Guy Fawkes with the gunpowder beneath Parliament. The other conspirators fled to Holbeach in Staffordshire. A shoot out on November 8 with authorities led to the deaths of Robert Catesby, Thomas Percy and the brothers Christopher and John Wright. The rest were captured. Fawkes and seven others were tried and executed in January 1606. The planned attack has become known as the Gunpowder Plot and is commemorated in Britain every November 5 with fireworks displays and large bonfires with effigies of Guy Fawkes and the Pope are often burned. Comparisons are often drawn between gunpowder plot and modern religious terrorism, such as the attacks in the US by Islamic terrorists on 9/11 2001.\n\nTerrorism was associated with state terror and the Reign of Terror in France, until the mid-19th century when the term also began to be associated with non-governmental groups. Anarchism, often in league with rising nationalism, was the most prominent ideology linked with terrorism. Attacks by various anarchist groups led to the assassination of a Russian Tsar and a U.S. President.\n\nIn the 19th century, powerful, stable, and affordable explosives were developed, global integration reached unprecedented levels and often radical political movements became widely influential. The use of dynamite, in particular, inspired anarchists and was central to their strategic thinking.\n\nOne of the earliest groups to utilize modern terrorist techniques was arguably the Fenian Brotherhood and its offshoot the Irish Republican Brotherhood. They were both founded in 1858 as revolutionary, militant nationalist and Catholic groups, both in Ireland and amongst the emigre community in the United States.\n\nAfter centuries of continued British rule, and influenced most recently from the devastating effects of the 1840s Irish potato famine, these revolutionary fraternal organisations were founded with the aim of establishing an independent republic in Ireland, and began carrying out frequent acts of violence in metropolitan Britain to achieve their aims through intimidation.\n\nIn 1867, members of the movement's leadership were arrested and convicted for organizing an armed uprising. While being transferred to prison, the police van in which they were being transported was intercepted and a police sergeant was shot in the rescue. A bolder rescue attempt of another Irish radical incarcerated in Clerkenwell Prison, was made in the same year: an explosion to demolish the prison wall killed 12 people and caused many injuries. The bombing enraged the British public, causing a panic over the Fenian threat.\n\nAlthough the Irish Republican Brotherhood condemned the Clerkenwell Outrage as a \"dreadful and deplorable event\", the organisation returned to bombings in Britain in 1881 to 1885, with the Fenian dynamite campaign, beginning one of the first modern terror campaigns. Instead of earlier forms of terrorism based on political assassination, this campaign used modern, timed explosives with the express aim of sowing fear in the very heart of metropolitan Britain, in order to achieve political gains – (Prime minister William Ewart Gladstone was partly influenced to disestablish the Anglican Church in Ireland as a gesture by the Clerkenwell bombing). The campaign also took advantage of the greater global integration of the times, and the bombing was largely funded and organised by the Fenian Brotherhood in the United States.\n\nThe first police unit to combat terrorism was established in 1883 by the Metropolitan Police, initially as a small section of the Criminal Investigation Department. It was known as the Special Irish Branch, and was trained in counter terrorism techniques to combat the Irish Republican Brotherhood. The unit's name was changed to Special Branch as the unit's remit steadily widened over the years.\n\nThe concept of \"propaganda of the deed\" (or \"propaganda by the deed\", from the French \"propagande par le fait\") advocated physical violence or other provocative public acts against political enemies in order to inspire mass rebellion or revolution. One of the first individuals associated with this concept, the Italian revolutionary Carlo Pisacane (18181857), wrote in his \"Political Testament\" (1857) that \"ideas spring from deeds and not the other way around\". Anarchist Mikhail Bakunin (18141876), in his \"Letters to a Frenchman on the Present Crisis\" (1870) stated that \"we must spread our principles, not with words but with deeds, for this is the most popular, the most potent, and the most irresistible form of propaganda\". The French anarchist Paul Brousse (18441912) popularized the phrase \"propaganda of the deed\"; in 1877 he cited as examples the 1871 Paris Commune and a workers' demonstration in Berne provocatively using the socialist red flag. By the 1880s, the slogan had begun to be used to refer to bombings, regicides and tyrannicides. Reflecting this new understanding of the term, in 1895 Italian anarchist Errico Malatesta described \"propaganda by the deed\" (which he opposed the use of) as violent communal insurrections meant to ignite an imminent revolution.\n\nFounded in Russia in 1878, Narodnaya Volya (\"Народная Воля\" in Russian; \"People's Will\" in English) was a revolutionary anarchist group inspired by Sergei Nechayev and by \"propaganda by the deed\" theorist Pisacane. The group developed ideas—such as targeted killing of the \"leaders of oppression\"—that would become the hallmark of subsequent violence by small non-state groups, and they were convinced that the developing technologies of the age—such as the invention of dynamite, which they were the first anarchist group to make widespread use of—enabled them to strike directly and with discrimination. Attempting to spark a popular revolt against Russian Tsardom, the group killed prominent political figures by gun and bomb, and on March 13, 1881, assassinated Russia's Tsar Alexander II. The assassination, by a bomb that also killed the Tsar's attacker, Ignacy Hryniewiecki, failed to spark the expected revolution, and an ensuing crackdown brought the group to an end.\n\nIndividual Europeans also engaged in politically motivated violence. For example, in 1893, Auguste Vaillant, a French anarchist, threw a bomb in the French Chamber of Deputies in which one person was injured. In reaction to Vaillant's bombing and other bombings and assassination attempts, the French government restricted freedom of the press by passing a set of laws that became pejoratively known as the \"lois scélérates\" (\"villainous laws\"). In the years 1894 to 1896 anarchists killed President of France Marie Francois Carnot, Prime Minister of Spain Antonio Cánovas del Castillo, and the Empress of Austria-Hungary, Elisabeth of Bavaria.\n\nPrior to the American Civil War, abolitionist John Brown (18001859) advocated and practiced armed opposition to slavery, leading several attacks between 1856 and 1859, the most famous attack was launched in 1859 against the armory at Harpers Ferry. Local forces soon recaptured the fort and Brown was tried and executed for treason. A biographer of Brown has written that Brown's purpose was \"to force the nation into a new political pattern by creating terror.\" In 2009, the 150th anniversary of Brown's death, prominent news publications debated over whether or not Brown should be considered a terrorist.\n\nAfter the Civil War, on December 24, 1865, six Confederate veterans created the Ku Klux Klan (KKK). The KKK used violence, lynching, murder and acts of intimidation such as cross burning to oppress African Americans in particular, and it created a sensation with its masked forays' dramatic nature.\n\nThe group's politics were white supremacist, anti-Semitic, racist, anti-Catholic, and nativist. A KKK founder boasted that it was a nationwide organization of 550,000 men and that it could muster 40,000 Klansmen within five days' notice, but as a secret or \"invisible\" group with no membership rosters, it was difficult to judge the Klan's actual size. The KKK has at times been politically powerful, and at various times it controlled the governments of Tennessee, Oklahoma, Indiana and South Carolina, as well as several legislatures in the South.\n\nSeveral nationalist groups used violence against an Ottoman Empire in apparent decline. One was the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (in Armenian \"Dashnaktsuthium\", or \"The Federation\"), a revolutionary movement founded in Tiflis (Russian Transcaucasia) in 1890 by Christapor Mikaelian. Many members had been part of Narodnaya Volya or the Hunchakian Revolutionary Party. The group published newsletters, smuggled arms, and hijacked buildings as it sought to bring in European intervention that would force the Ottoman Empire to surrender control of its Armenian territories. On August 24, 1896, 17-year-old Babken Suni led twenty-six members in capturing the Imperial Ottoman Bank in Constantinople. The group demanded European intervention in order to stop the Hamidian massacres and the creation of an Armenian state, but backed down on a threat to blow up the bank. An ensuing security crackdown destroyed the group.\n\nAlso inspired by Narodnaya Volya, the Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization (IMRO) was a revolutionary movement founded in 1893 by Hristo Tatarchev in the Ottoman-controlled Macedonian territories. Through assassinations and by provoking uprisings, the group sought to coerce the Ottoman government into creating a Macedonian nation. On July 20, 1903, the group incited the Ilinden uprising in the Ottoman villayet of Monastir. The IMRO declared the town's independence and sent demands to the European Powers that all of Macedonia be freed. The demands were ignored and Turkish troops crushed the 27,000 rebels in the town two months later.\n\nRevolutionary nationalism continued to motivate political violence in the 20th century, much of it directed against western colonial powers. The Irish Republican Army campaigned against the British in the 1910s and inspired the Zionist groups Hagannah, Irgun and Lehi to fight the British throughout the 1930s in the Palestine mandate. Like the IRA and the Zionist groups, the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt used bombings and assassinations to try to free territory from British control.\n\nThe women's suffrage movement in the UK also committed terrorist attacks prior to the First World War. There were three phases of WSPU militancy in 1905, 1908, 1913; including civil disobedience, destruction of public property and arson and bombings. Most notably, The WSPU burned down Government Minister, and future Prime Minister David Lloyd George's house (despite his support for women's suffrage).\n\nPolitical assassinations continued, resulting in the assassinations of King Umberto I of Italy, killed in July 1900 and US President William McKinley in September 1901. Political violence became especially widespread in Imperial Russia, and several ministers were killed in the opening years of the 20th century. The highest-ranking was prime minister Pyotr Stolypin, killed in 1911 by Dmitry Bogrov, a spy for the secret police in several anarchist, socialist and other revolutionary groups.\n\nOn June 28, 1914, Gavrilo Princip, one of a group of six assassins, shot and killed Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, heir to the Austro-Hungarian throne, and his wife, Sophie, Duchess of Hohenberg, in Sarajevo, the capital of the Condominion of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The assassinations produced widespread shock across Europe, setting in motion a series of events which led to World War I.\n\nIn the 1930s, the Nazi regime in Germany and Stalin's rule in the Soviet Union practiced state terror systematically and on a massive and unprecedented scale. Meanwhile, the Stalin regime branded its opponents with the label \"terrorist\".\n\nIn an action called the Easter Rising or Easter Rebellion, on April 24, 1916, members of the Irish Volunteers and the Irish Citizen Army seized the Dublin General Post Office and several other buildings, proclaiming an independent Irish Republic. The rebellion failed militarily but was a success for physical force Irish republicanism, leaders of the uprising becoming Irish heroes after their eventual execution by the British government.\n\nShortly after the rebellion, Michael Collins and others founded the Irish Republican Army (IRA), which from 1916 to 1923 carried out numerous attacks against symbols of British power. For example, it attacked over 300 police stations simultaneously just before Easter 1920, and, in November 1920, publicly killed a dozen police officers and burned down the Liverpool docks and warehouses, an action that became known as Bloody Sunday.\n\nAfter years of warfare, London agreed to the 1921 Anglo-Irish treaty creating a free Irish state encompassing 26 of the island's 32 counties. IRA tactics were an inspiration to other groups, including the Palestine Mandate's Zionists, and to British special operations during World War II.\n\nThe IRA are considered by some the innovators of modern terrorism as the British would replicate and build upon the tactics used against by the IRA in World War II. Tony Geraghty in \"The Irish War: The Hidden Conflict Between the IRA and British Intelligence\" wrote:\n\nFrom January 1939 to March 1940, the Irish Republican Army (IRA) carried out a campaign of bombing and sabotage against the civil, economic, and military infrastructure of Britain. It was known as the S-Plan or Sabotage Campaign. During the campaign, the IRA carried out almost 300 attacks and acts of sabotage in Britain, killing seven people and injuring 96. Most of the casualties occurred in the Coventry bombing on 25 August 1939.\n\nFollowing the 1929 Hebron massacre of 67 Jews in the British Mandate of Palestine, the Zionist militia Haganah transformed itself into a paramilitary force. In 1931, however, the more militant Irgun broke away from Haganah, objecting to Haganah's policy of restraint. Founded by Avraham Tehomi, Irgun sought to aggressively defend Jews from Arab attacks. Its tactic of attacking Arab communities, including the bombing of a crowded Arab market, is considered among the first examples of terrorism directed against civilians.\nAfter the British, in the White Paper of 1939, placed severe restrictions on Jewish immigration into Palestine and set forth a vision of a single state with an Arab majority, the Irgun began a campaign against British rule by assassinating police, capturing British government buildings and arms, and sabotaging British railways. Irgun's best-known attack targeted the King David Hotel in Jerusalem, parts of which housed the headquarters of the British civil and military administrations. The bombing, in 1946, killed ninety-one people and injured forty-six, making it the most deadly attack during the Mandate era. This attack was sharply condemned by the organized leadership of the Yishuv, and further widened the gulf between David Ben-Gurion's Hagana and Begin's Irgun. Following the bombing, Ben-Gurion called Irgun an \"enemy of the Jewish people\". After the founding of the state of Israel in 1948, Menachem Begin (Irgun leader from 1943 to 1948) transformed the group into the political party Herut, which later became part of Likud in an alliance with the center-right Gahal, Liberal Party, Free Centre, National List, and Movement for Greater Israel. On the 60th anniversary of the bombing, a plaque was unveiled at the hotel.\n\nOperating in the British Mandate of Palestine in the 1930s, Izz ad-Din al-Qassam (1882–1935) organized and established the Black Hand, a Palestinian nationalist militia. He recruited and arranged military training for peasants, and by 1935 had enlisted between 200 and 800 men. Al-Qassam obtained a fatwa from Shaykh Badr al-Din al-Taji al-Hasani, the Mufti of Damascus, authorizing armed resistance against the British and against the Jews of Palestine. Black Hand cells were equipped with bombs and firearms, which they used to kill Jews. Although al-Qassam's revolt was unsuccessful in his lifetime, many organizations gained inspiration from his example. He became a popular hero and an inspiration to subsequent Arab militants, who in the 193639 Arab revolt, called themselves Qassamiyun, followers of al-Qassam. The Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades, the military wing of Hamas, as well as the rockets they developed, take their names after Qassam.\n\nLehi (\"Lohamei Herut Yisrael\", a.k.a. \"Freedom Fighters for Israel\", a.k.a. the Stern Gang) was a revisionist Zionist group that splintered off from Irgun in 1940. Abraham Stern formed Lehi from disaffected Irgun members after Irgun agreed to a truce with Britain in 1940. Lehi assassinated prominent politicians as a strategy. For example, on November 6, 1944, Lord Moyne, the British Minister of State for the Middle East, was assassinated. The act was controversial among Zionist militant groups, Hagannah sympathizing with the British and launching a massive man-hunt against members of Lehi and Irgun. After Israel's 1948 founding, Lehi formally dissolved and its members became integrated into the Israeli Defense Forces.\n\nSome of the tactics of the guerrilla, partisan, and resistance movements organised and supplied by the Allies during World War II, according to historian M. R. D. Foot, can be considered terrorist. Colin Gubbins, a key leader within the British Special Operations Executive (SOE), made sure the organization drew much of its inspiration from the IRA.\n\nOn the eve of D-Day, the SOE organised with the French Resistance the complete destruction of the rail and communication infrastructure of western France the largest coordinated attack of its kind in history Allied supreme commander Dwight Eisenhower later wrote that \"the disruption of enemy rail communications, the harassing of German road moves and the continual and increasing strain placed on German security services throughout occupied Europe by the organised forces of Resistance, played a very considerable part in our complete and final victory\".\n\nThe SOE also conducted operations in Africa, the Middle East and the Far East.\n\nThe work of the SOE received recognition in 2009 with a memorial in London, however there are differing views on the morality of the SOE's actions; the British military historian John Keegan wrote:\nAfter World War II, largely successful anti-colonial campaigns were launched against the collapsing European empires, as many World War II resistance groups became militantly anti-colonial. The Viet Minh, for example, which had fought against the Japanese, now fought against the returning French colonists. In the Middle East, the Muslim Brotherhood used bombings and assassinations against British rule in Egypt. Also during the 1950s, the National Liberation Front (FLN) in French-controlled Algeria and the EOKA in British-controlled Cyprus waged guerrilla and open war against colonial powers.\nIn the 1960s, inspired by Mao's Chinese revolution of 1949 and Castro's Cuban revolution of 1959, national independence movements often fused nationalist and socialist impulses. This was the case with Spain's ETA, the Front de libération du Québec, and the Palestine Liberation Organization.\n\nIn the late 1960s and 1970s violent left wing and revolutionary groups were on the rise, sympathizing with Third World guerrilla movements and seeking to spark anti-capitalist revolts. Such groups included the PKK in Turkey, Armenia's ASALA, the Japanese Red Army, the German Red Army Faction, the Italian Red Brigades, and, in the United States, the Weather Underground. Nationalist groups such as the Provisional IRA and the Tamil tigers also began operations at this time.\n\nThroughout the Cold War, both the United States and the Soviet Union made extensive use of violent nationalist organizations to carry on a war by proxy. For example, Soviet and Chinese military advisers provided training and support to the Viet Cong during the Vietnam War. The Soviet Union also provided military support to the PLO during the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, and Fidel Castro during the Cuban Revolution. The United States funded groups such as the Contras in Nicaragua. Many violent Islamic militants of the late 20th and early 21st century had been funded in the 1980s by the United States and the UK because they were fighting the USSR in Afghanistan.\n\nFounded in 1928 as a nationalist social-welfare and political movement in British-controlled Egypt, the Muslim Brotherhood began to attack British soldiers and police stations in the late 1940s. Founded and led by Hassan al-Banna, it also assassinated politicians seen as collaborating with British rule, most prominently Egyptian Prime Minister Nuqrashi in 1948. In 1952 a military coup overthrew British rule, and shortly thereafter the Muslim Brotherhood went underground in the face of a massive crackdown. Though sometimes banned or otherwise oppressed, the group continues to exist in present-day Egypt.\n\nThe National Liberation Front (FLN) was a nationalist group founded in French-controlled Algeria in 1954. The group became a large-scale resistance movement against French rule, with terrorism only part of its operations. The FLN leadership took inspiration from the Viet Minh rebels who had made French troops withdraw from Vietnam. The FLN was one of the first anti-colonial groups to use large-scale compliance violence. The FLN would establish control over a rural village and coerce its peasants to execute any French loyalists among them. On the night of October 31, 1954, in a coordinated wave of seventy bombings and shootings known as the Toussaint attacks, the FLN attacked French military installations and the homes of Algerian loyalists. In the following year, the group gained significant support for an uprising against loyalists in Philippeville. This uprising, and the heavy-handed response by the French, convinced many Algerians to support the FLN and the independence movement. The FLN eventually secured Algerian independence from France in 1962, and transformed itself into Algeria's ruling party.\nFatah was organized as a Palestinian nationalist group in 1954, and exists today as a political party in Palestine. In 1967 it joined the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), an umbrella organization for secular Palestinian nationalist groups formed in 1964. The PLO began its own armed operations in 1965. The PLO's membership comprises separate and possibly contending paramilitary and political factions, the largest of which include Fatah, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP), and the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine (DFLP). Factions of the PLO have advocated or carried out acts of terrorism. Abu Iyad organized the Fatah splinter group Black September in 1970; the group is arguably best known for seizing eleven Israeli athletes as hostages at the September 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich. All the athletes and five Black September operatives died during a gun battle with the West German police in what later became known as the Munich massacre. The PFLP, founded in 1967 by George Habash, on September 6, 1970 hijacked three international passenger planes, landing two of them in Jordan and blowing up the third. Fatah leader and PLO chairman Yasser Arafat publicly renounced terrorism in December 1988 on behalf of the PLO, but Israel has stated that it has proof that Arafat continued to sponsor terrorism until his death in 2004.\n\nIn the 1974 Ma'alot massacre 22 Israeli high-school students, aged 14 to 16 from Safed were killed by three members of the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine. Before reaching the school, the trio shot and killed two Arab women, a Jewish man, his pregnant wife, and their 4-year-old son, and wounded several others.\n\nThe People's Mujahedin of Iran (PMOI) or Mujahedin-e Khalq (founded in 1965), is a socialist Islamic group that has fought Iran's government since the Khomeini revolution. The group originated to oppose capitalism and what it perceived as western exploitation of Iran under the Shah. The group would go on to play an important role in the Shah's overthrow but was unable to capitalize on this in the following power-vacuum. The group is suspected of having a membership of between 10,000 and 30,000. The group renounced violence in 2001 but remains a proscribed terror-organization in Iran and in the United States. The EU, however, has removed the group from its terror list. The PMOI is accused of supporting other groups such as the Jundallah.\n\nIn 1975 Hagop Tarakchian and Hagop Hagopian, with the help of sympathetic Palestinians, founded the Armenian Secret Army for the Liberation of Armenia (ASALA) in Beirut during the Lebanese Civil War. At the time Turkey was in political turmoil, and Hagopian believed that the time was right to avenge the Armenians who died during the Armenian Genocide and to force the Turkish government to cede the territory of Wilsonian Armenia to establish a nation state also incorporating the Armenian SSR. In its Esenboga airport attack, on 7 August 1982, two ASALA rebels opened fire on civilians in a waiting room at the Esenboga International Airport in Ankara. Nine people died and 82 were injured. By 1986, the ASALA had virtually ceased all attacks.\n\nThe \"Partiya Karkerên Kurdistan\" (Kurdistan Workers Party or PKK) was established in Turkey in 1978 as a Kurdish nationalist party. Founder Abdullah Ocalan was inspired by the Maoist theory of people's war, and like Algeria's FLN he advocated the use of compliance terror. The group seeks to create an independent Kurdish state consisting of parts of south-eastern Turkey, north-eastern Iraq, north-eastern Syria and north-western Iran. In 1984 the PKK transformed itself into a paramilitary organisation and launched conventional attacks as well as bombings against Turkish governmental installations. In 1999 Turkish authorities captured Öcalan. He was tried in Turkey and sentenced to life imprisonment. The PKK has since gone through a series of name changes.\n\nFounded in 1959 and still active, the Euskadi Ta Askatasuna (or ETA (Basque for \"Basque Homeland and Freedom\", pronounced )) is an armed Basque nationalist separatist organization. Formed in response to General Francisco Franco's suppression of the Basque language and culture, ETA evolved from an advocacy group for traditional Basque culture into an armed Marxist group demanding Basque independence. Many ETA victims are government officials, the group's first known victim a police chief killed in 1968. In 1973 ETA operatives killed Franco's apparent successor, Admiral Luis Carrero Blanco, by planting an underground bomb under his habitual parking spot outside a Madrid church. In 1995, an ETA car bomb nearly killed Jose Maria Aznar, then the leader of the conservative Popular Party, and the same year investigators disrupted a plot to assassinate King Juan Carlos. Efforts by Spanish governments to negotiate with the ETA have failed, and in 2003 the Spanish Supreme Court banned the Batasuna political party, which was determined to be the political arm of ETA.\n\nThe Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA) was an Irish nationalist movement founded in December 1969 when several militants including Seán Mac Stíofáin broke off from the Official IRA and formed a new organization. Led by Mac Stíofáin in the early 1970s and by a group around Gerry Adams since the late 1970s, the Provisional IRA sought to create an all-island Irish state. Between 1969 and 1997, during a period known as the Troubles, the group conducted an armed campaign, including bombings, gun attacks, assassinations and even a mortar attack on 10 Downing Street. On July 21, 1972, in an attack later known as Bloody Friday, the group set off twenty-two bombs, killing nine and injuring 130. On July 28, 2005, the Provisional IRA Army Council announced an end to its armed campaign. The IRA is believed to have been a major exporter of arms to and provided military training to groups such as the FARC in Colombia and the PLO. In the case of the latter there has been a long-held solidarity movement, which is evident by the many murals around Belfast.\n\nThe Red Army Faction (RAF) was a New Left group founded in 1968 by Andreas Baader and Ulrike Meinhof in West Germany. Inspired by Che Guevara, Maoist socialism, and the Vietcong, the group sought to raise awareness of the Vietnamese and Palestinian independence movements through kidnappings, taking embassies hostage, bank robberies, assassinations, bombings, and attacks on U.S. air bases. The group is best known for 1977's \"German Autumn\". The buildup leading to German Autumn began on April 7, when the RAF shot Federal Prosecutor Siegfried Buback. On July 30, it shot Jürgen Ponto, then head of the Dresdner Bank, in a failed kidnapping attempt; on September 5, the group kidnapped Hanns Martin Schleyer (a former SS officer and an important West German industrialist), executing him on October 19. The hijacking of the Lufthansa jetliner \"Landshut\" by the PFLP, a Palestinian group, is also considered to be part of German Autumn.\n\nThe Red Brigades were a New Left group founded by Renato Curcio and Alberto Franceschini in 1970 that sought to create a revolutionary state. The group carried out a series of bombings and kidnappings until Curcio and Franceschini were arrested in the mid-1970s. Their successor as leader, Mario Moretti, led the group toward more militarized and violent actions, including the kidnapping of former Prime Minister Aldo Moro on March 16, 1978. Moro was killed 56 days later. This led to an all-out assault on the group by Italian law enforcement and security forces and condemnation from Italian left-wing radicals and even imprisoned ex-leaders of the Brigades. The group lost most of its social support and public opinion turned strongly against it. In 1984, the group split, the majority faction becoming the Communist Combatant Party (Red Brigades-PCC) and the minority faction reconstituting itself as the Union of Combatant Communists (Red Brigades-UCC). Members of these groups carried out a handful of assassinations before almost all were arrested in 1989.\n\nThe \"Front de libération du Québec\" (FLQ) was a Marxist nationalist group that sought to create an independent, socialist Quebec. Georges Schoeters founded the group in 1963 and was inspired by Che Guevara and Algeria's FLN. The group was accused of bombings, kidnappings, and assassinations of politicians, soldiers, and civilians. On October 5, 1970, the FLQ kidnapped James Richard Cross, the British Trade Commissioner, and on October 10, the Minister of Labor and Vice-Premier of Quebec, Pierre Laporte. Laporte was killed a week later. After these events support for violence in order to attain Quebec's independence declined, and support increased for the Parti Québécois, which took power in Quebec in 1976.\n\nIn Colombia several paramilitary and guerrilla groups formed during the 1960s and afterwards. In 1983, President Fernando Belaúnde Terry of Peru described armed attacks on his nation's anti-narcotics police as \"narcoterrorism\", i.e., which refers to \"violence waged by drug producers to extract political concessions from the government.\" Pablo Escobar's ruthless violence in his dealings with the Colombian and Peruvian governments has been probably two of the best known and best documented examples of narcoterrorism. Paramilitary groups associated with narcoterrorism include the Ejército de Liberación Nacional (ELN), the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia (FARC), and the Autodefensas Unidas de Colombia (AUC). While the ELN and FARC were originally left wing revolutionary groups and the AUC was originally a right-wing paramilitary, all have conducted numerous attacks on civilians and civilian infrastructure and engaged in the drug trade. The U.S. and some European governments consider them terrorist organizations.\n\nThe Jewish Defense League (JDL) was founded in 1969 by Rabbi Meir Kahane in New York City, with its declared purpose being the protection of Jews from harassment and antisemitism. Federal Bureau of Investigation statistics state that, from 1980 to 1985, 15 attacks which the FBI classified as acts of terrorism were attempted in the U.S. by members of the JDL. The National Consortium for the Study of Terror and Responses to Terrorism states that, during the JDL's first two decades of activity, it was an \"active terrorist organization.\". Kahane later founded the far-right Israeli political party Kach, which was banned from elections in Israel on the ground of racism. The JDL's present-day website condemns all forms of terrorism.\n\nThe \"Fuerzas Armadas de Liberación Nacional\" (FALN, \"Armed Forces of National Liberation\") is a nationalist group founded in Puerto Rico in 1974. Over the decade that followed the group used bombings and targeted killings of civilians and police in pursuit of an independent Puerto Rico. The FALN in 1975 took responsibility for four nearly simultaneous bombings in New York City. The United States Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) has classified the FALN as a terrorist organization.\n\nThe Weather Underground (a.k.a. the Weathermen) began as a militant faction of the leftist Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) organization, and in 1969 took over the organization. Weathermen leaders, inspired by China's Maoists, the Black Panthers, and the 1968 student revolts in France, sought to raise awareness of its revolutionary anti-capitalist and anti-Vietnam War platform by destroying symbols of government power. From 1969 to 1974 the Weathermen bombed corporate offices, police stations, and Washington government sites such as the Pentagon. After the end of the Vietnam War in 1975, most of the group disbanded.\n\nThe Japanese Red Army was founded by Fusako Shigenobu in Japan in 1971 and attempted to overthrow the Japanese government and start a world revolution. Allied with the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP), the group committed assassinations, hijacked a commercial Japanese aircraft, and sabotaged a Shell oil refinery in Singapore. On May 30, 1972, Kōzō Okamoto and other group members launched a machine gun and grenade attack at Israel's Lod Airport in Tel Aviv, killing 26 people and injuring 80 others. Two of the three attackers then killed themselves with grenades.\n\nFounded in 1976, the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, (also called \"LTTE\" or Tamil Tigers) was a militant Tamil nationalist political and paramilitary organization based in northern Sri Lanka. From its founding by Velupillai Prabhakaran, it waged a secessionist resistance campaign that sought to create an independent Tamil state in the northern and eastern regions of Sri Lanka. The conflict originated in measures the majority Sinhalese took that were perceived as attempts to marginalize the Tamil minority. The resistance campaign evolved into the Sri Lankan Civil War, one of the longest-running armed conflicts in Asia. The group carried out many bombings, including an April 21, 1987, car bomb attack at a Colombo bus terminal that killed 110 people. In 2009 the Sri Lankan military launched a major military offensive against the secessionist movement and claimed that it had effectively destroyed the LTTE.\n\nIn Kenya, because of the seeming ongoing failure of the Kenyan African Union to obtain political reforms from the British through peaceful means, radical activists within the KAU set up a splinter group and organised a more militant kind of nationalism. By 1952 The Mau Mau consisted of Kikuyu fighters, along with some Embu and Meru recruits. The Mau Mau carried out attacks on political opponents, loyalist villages, raiding white settler farms and destroying livestock. The British colonial administration declared a state of emergency and British forces were sent to Kenya. The majority of fighting was between loyalist and Mau Mau Kikuyu, so many scholars today now consider it a Kikuyu civil war. The Kenyan Government considers the Mau Mau Uprising a key step towards Kenya's independence from British Imperial rule. The British were accused of using torture and mass executions as part of their efforts to suppress the Mau Mau, though the British forces did have strict orders not to mistreat Mau Mau terrorists.\n\nFounded in 1961, Umkhonto we Sizwe (MK) was the military wing of the African National Congress; it waged a guerrilla campaign against the South African apartheid regime and was responsible for many bombings. MK launched its first guerrilla attacks against government installations on 16 December 1961. The South African government subsequently banned the group after classifying it as a terrorist organization. MK's first leader was Nelson Mandela, who was tried and imprisoned for the group's acts. With the end of apartheid in South Africa, Umkhonto we Sizwe was incorporated into the South African armed forces.\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s, Islamic militancy in pursuit of religious and political goals increased, many militants drawing inspiration from Iran's 1979 Islamic Revolution. In the 1990s, well-known violent acts that targeted civilians were the World Trade Center bombing by Islamic terrorists on February 27, 1993, the Sarin gas attack on the Tokyo subway by Aum Shinrikyo on March 20, 1995, and the bombing of Oklahoma City's Murrah Federal Building by Timothy McVeigh a month later that same year. This period also saw the rise of what is sometimes categorized as Single issue terrorism. If terrorism is the extension of domestic politics by other means, just as war is for diplomacy, then this represents the extension of pressure groups into violent action. Notable examples that grow in this period are Anti-abortion terrorism and Environmental terrorism.\n\nThe Contras were a counter-revolutionary militia formed in 1979 to oppose Nicaragua's Sandinista government. The Catholic Institute for International Relations asserted the following about contra operating procedures in 1987: \"The record of the contras in the field... is one of consistent and bloody abuse of human rights, of murder, torture, mutilation, rape, arson, destruction and kidnapping.\" Americas Watchsubsequently folded into Human Rights Watchaccused the Contras of targeting health care clinics and health care workers for assassination; kidnapping civilians, torturing civilians; executing civilians, including children, who were captured in combat; raping women; indiscriminately attacking civilians and civilian houses; seizing civilian property; and burning civilian houses in captured towns. The contras disbanded after the election of Violetta Chamorro in 1990.\n\nThe April 19, 1995, Oklahoma City bombing was directed at the U.S. government, according to the prosecutor at the murder trial of Timothy McVeigh, who was convicted of carrying out the crime. The bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in downtown Oklahoma City claimed 168 lives and left over 800 people injured. McVeigh, who was convicted of first degree murder and executed, said his motivation was revenge for U.S. government actions at Waco and Ruby Ridge.\n\n659 people died in Lebanon between 1982 and 1986 in 36 suicide attacks directed against American, French and Israeli forces, by 41 individuals with predominantly leftist political beliefs who were adherents of both the Christian and Muslim religions. The 1983 Beirut barracks bombing (by the Islamic Jihad Organization), which killed 241 U.S. and 58 French peacekeepers and six civilians at the peacekeeping barracks in Beirut, was particularly deadly. Hezbollah (\"Party of God\") is an Islamist movement and political party officially founded in Lebanon in 1985, ten years after the outbreak of that country's civil war. Inspired by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini and the Iranian revolution, the group originally sought an Islamic revolution in Lebanon and has long fought for the withdrawal of Israeli forces from Lebanon. Led by Sheikh Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah since 1992, the group has captured Israeli soldiers and carried out missile attacks and suicide bombings against Israeli targets.\n\nEgyptian Islamic Jihad (a.k.a. \"Al-Gamaa Al-Islamiyya\") is a militant Egyptian Islamist movement dedicated to the establishment of an Islamic state in Egypt. The group was formed in 1980 as an umbrella organization for militant student groups which were formed after the leadership of the Muslim Brotherhood renounced violence. It is led by Omar Abdel-Rahman, who has been accused of participation in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing. In 1981, the group assassinated Egyptian president Anwar Sadat. On November 17, 1997, in what became known as the Luxor massacre, it attacked tourists at the Temple of Hatshepsut (Deir el-Bahri); six men dressed as police officers machine-gunned 58 Japanese and European vacationers and four Egyptians.\n\nOn December 21, 1988, Pan Am Flight 103, a Pan American World Airways flight from London's Heathrow International Airport to New York City's John F. Kennedy International Airport, was destroyed mid flight over the Scottish town of Lockerbie, killing 270 people, including 11 on the ground. On January 31, 2001, Libyan Abdelbaset al-Megrahi was convicted by a panel of three Scottish judges of bombing the flight, and was sentenced to 27 years imprisonment. In 2002, Libya offered financial compensation to victims' families in exchange for lifting of UN and U.S. sanctions. In 2007 Megrahi was granted leave to appeal against his conviction, and in August 2009 was released on compassionate grounds by the Scottish executive due to his terminal cancer.\n\nThe first Palestinian suicide attack took place in 1989 when a member of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad ignited a bomb onboard Tel Aviv bus, killing 16 people. In the early 1990s another group, Hamas, also became well known for suicide bombings. Sheikh Ahmed Yassin, Abdel Aziz al-Rantissi and Mohammad Taha of the Palestinian wing of Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood had created Hamas in 1987, at the beginning of the First Intifada, an uprising against Israeli rule in the Palestinian Territories which mostly consisted of civil disobedience but sometimes escalated into violence. Hamas's militia, the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades, began its own suicide bombings against Israel in 1993, eventually accounting for about 40% of them. Palestinian militant organizations have been responsible for rocket attacks on Israel, IED attacks, shootings, and stabbings. After winning legislative elections, Hamas since June 2007 has governed the Gaza portion of the Palestinian Territories. Hamas is designated as a terrorist organization by the European Union, Canada, Israel, Japan, and the United States. Australia and the United Kingdom have designated the military wing of Hamas, the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades, as a terrorist organization. The organization is banned in Jordan. It is not regarded as a terrorist organization by Iran, Russia, Norway, Switzerland, Brazil, Turkey, China, and Qatar. As well as Hamas, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, Palestinian Islamic Jihad, Palestine Liberation Front, PFLP-General Command, and the Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigade were all listed as terrorist organizations by the US State Department in the 1990s.\n\nOn February 25, 1994, Baruch Goldstein, an American-born Israeli physician, perpetrated the Cave of the Patriarchs massacre in the city of Hebron, Goldstein shot and killed between 30 and 54 Muslim worshippers inside the Ibrahimi Mosque (within the Cave of the Patriarchs), and wounded another 125 to 150. Goldstein, who was lynched and killed in the mosque, was a supporter of Kach, an Israeli political party founded by Rabbi Meir Kahane that advocated the expulsion of Arabs from Israel and the Palestinian Territories. In the aftermath of the Goldstein attack and Kach statements praising it, Kach was outlawed in Israel. Today, Kach and a breakaway group, Kahane Chai, are considered terrorist organisations by Israel, Canada, the European Union, and the United States. The far-right anti-miscegenation group Lehava, headed by former Kach member Bentzi Gopstein, is politically active inside Israel and its occupied territories.\n\nAum Shinrikyo, now known as Aleph, was a Japanese religious group founded by Shoko Asahara in 1984 as a yogic meditation group. Later, in 1990, Asahara and 24 other members campaigned for election to the House of Representatives under the banner of Shinri-tō (Supreme Truth Party). None were voted in, and the group began to militarize. Between 1990 and 1995, the group attempted several apparently unsuccessful violent attacks using the methods of biological warfare, using botulin toxin and anthrax spores. On June 28, 1994, Aum Shinrikyo members released sarin gas from several sites in the Kaichi Heights neighborhood of Matsumoto, Japan, killing eight and injuring 200 in what became known as the Matsumoto incident. Seven months later, on March 20, 1995, Aum Shinrikyo members released sarin gas in a coordinated attack on five trains in the Tokyo subway system, killing 12 commuters and damaging the health of about 5,000 others in what became known as the subway sarin incident (地下鉄サリン事件, chikatetsu sarin jiken). In May 1995, Asahara and other senior leaders were arrested and the group's membership rapidly decreased.\n\nIn 1985, Air India Flight 182 flying from Canada was blown up by a bomb while in Irish airspace, killing 329 people, including 280 Canadian citizens, mostly of Indian birth or descent, and 22 Indians. The incident was the deadliest act of air terrorism before 9/11, and the first bombing of a 747 Jumbo Jet which would set a pattern for future air terrorism plots. The crash occurred within an hour of the fatal Narita Airport Bombing which also originated from Canada without the passenger for the bag that exploded on the ground. Evidence from the explosions, witnesses and wiretaps of militants pointed to an attempt to actually blow up two airliners simultaneously by members of the Babbar Khalsa Khalistan movement militant group based in Canada to punish India for attacking the Golden Temple.\n\nThe Iranian Embassy siege took place in 1980, after a group of six armed men stormed the Iranian embassy in South Kensington, London. The government ordered the Special Air Service (SAS), a special forces regiment of the British Army, to conduct an assault—Operation Nimrod—to rescue the remaining hostages. This response set the tone for how Western governments would respond to terrorism. Replacing an era of negotiation with one of military intervention.\nChechen separatists, led by Shamil Basayev, carried out several attacks on Russian targets between 1994 and 2006. In the June 1995 Budyonnovsk hospital hostage crisis, Basayev-led separatists took over 1,000 civilians hostage in a hospital in the southern Russian city of Budyonnovsk. When Russian special forces attempted to free the hostages, 105 civilians and 25 Russian troops were killed.\n\nMajor events after the September 11 attacks in 2001 include the Moscow Theatre Siege, the 2003 Istanbul bombings, the Madrid train bombings, the Beslan school hostage crisis, the 2005 London bombings, the October 2005 New Delhi bombings, the 2008 Mumbai Hotel Siege, and the 2011 Norway attacks.\n\nThe Moscow theatre hostage crisis was the seizure of a crowded Moscow theatre on 23 October 2002 by some 40 to 50 armed Chechens who claimed allegiance to the Islamist militant separatist movement in Chechnya. They took 850 hostages and demanded the withdrawal of Russian forces from Chechnya and an end to the Second Chechen War. The siege was officially led by Movsar Barayev. After a two-and-a-half-day siege, Russian Spetsnaz forces pumped an unknown chemical agent (thought to be fentanyl, 3-methylfentanyl), into the building's ventilation system and raided it. Officially, 39 of the attackers were killed by Russian forces, along with at least 129 and possibly many more of the hostages (including nine foreigners). All but a few of the hostages who died were killed by the gas pumped into the theatre, and many condemned the use of the gas as heavy handed. Roughly, 170 people died in all.\n\nOn September 1, 2004, in what became known as the Beslan school hostage crisis, 32 Chechen separatists took 1,300 children and adults hostage at Beslan's School Number One. When Russian authorities did not comply with the rebel demands that Russian forces withdraw from Chechnya, 20 adult male hostages were shot. After two days of stalled negotiations, Russian special forces stormed the building. In the ensuing melee, over 300 hostages died, along with 19 Russian servicemen and all but perhaps one of the rebels. Basayev is believed to have participated in organizing the attack..\n\nThe 2004 Madrid train bombings (also known in Spain as 11-M) were nearly simultaneous, coordinated bombings against the Cercanías commuter train system of Madrid, Spain, on the morning of 11 March 2004three days before Spain's general elections and two and a half years after the September 11 attacks in the United States. The explosions killed 191 people and wounded 1,800. It was concluded that the bombs were carried on the trains hidden in backpacks, While many went off three were found later that did not detonate. The official investigation by the Spanish judiciary found that the attacks were directed by an al-Qaeda-inspired terrorist cell. ETA and al Qaeda were the original suspects cited by the Spanish government.\n\nThe 7 July 2005 London bombings (often referred to as 7/7) were a series of coordinated suicide bomb attacks in central London which targeted civilians using the public transport system during the morning rush hour. On the morning of Thursday, 7 July 2005, four Islamist extremists separately detonated three bombs in quick succession aboard London Underground trains across the city and, later, a fourth on a double-decker bus in Tavistock Square. Fifty-two civilians were killed and over 700 more were injured in the attacks. Later a dozen unexploded bombs were found in a car located in North London. 3 out of the 4 suspects were identified Mohammed Silique Khan, Germaine Morris Lindsay, Shahzad Tawnier where they are found to be in cohorts with Osama Bin Laden and eventually documents are leaked showing that Osama bin laden and Rashid Ruff planned the London bombings.\n\nIn Norway in 2011 two sequential lone wolf terrorist attacks by right-wing extremist Anders Behring Breivik were carried out against the government, the civilian population, and a Workers' Youth League (AUF)-run summer camp in Norway on 22 July 2011. The attacks claimed a total of 77 lives. The first part of the attack was a van bomb in Oslo. The van was placed in front of the office block housing the office of Prime Minister and other government buildings. The explosion killed eight people and injured at least 209 people, twelve of them seriously. He followed this attack by impersonating a police officer to access the island on which the AUF summer camp was being held and proceeded to go on a shooting spree that killed 69 people.\n\nIn 2013 the British government branded the killing of a serviceman in a Woolwich street, a terrorist attack. One of his attackers made political statements which were later broadcast with blood still on his hands from the attack. The two men responsible for the attack remained on the scene until incapacitated by armed police. They were later tried and found guilty of murder.\n\nFrom 7 January to 9 January 2015, a series of five terrorist attacks occurred across the Île-de-France region, particularly in Paris. The attacks killed a total of 17 people, in addition to the three perpetrators of the attack, and wounded 22 others, some of whom are in critical condition . A fifth shooting attack did not result in any fatalities. Numerous other smaller incidents of attacks on mosques have been reported, but have not yet been directly linked to the attacks. The group that claims responsibility for the attacks, Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, claimed that the attack had been planned for years ahead.\n\nOn 7 January 2015, two Islamist gunmen forced their way into and opened fire in the Paris headquarters of \"Charlie Hebdo shooting\", killing twelve: staff cartoonists Charb, Cabu, Honoré, Tignous and Wolinski, economist Bernard Maris, editors Elsa Cayat and Mustapha Ourrad, guest Michel Renaud, maintenance worker Frédéric Boisseau and police officers Brinsolaro and Merabet, and wounding eleven, four of them seriously.\n\nDuring the attack, the gunmen shouted \"Allahu akbar\" (\"God is great\" in Arabic) and also \"the Prophet is avenged\". President François Hollande described it as a \"terrorist attack of the most extreme barbarity\". The two gunmen were identified as Saïd Kouachi and Chérif Kouachi, French Muslim brothers of Algerian descent.\n\nOn 9 January, police tracked the assailants to an industrial estate in Dammartin-en-Goële, where they took a hostage. Another gunman also shot a police officer on 8 January and took hostages the next day, at a kosher supermarket near the Porte de Vincennes. GIGN (a special operations unit of the French Armed Forces), combined with RAID and BRI (special operations units of the French Police), conducted simultaneous raids in Dammartin and at Porte de Vincennes. Three terrorists were killed, along with four hostages who died in the Vincennes supermarket before the intervention; some other hostages were injured.\n\nOn 13 November, 28 hours after the Beirut attack, three groups of ISIS terrorists performed mass killings in various places in Paris' Xe and XIe arrondissements. They killed a total of more than 130 citizens. Hostages were taken in the concert hall \"Le Bataclan\" for three hours, and ninety were killed before the special police entered. The president immediately started the emergency threat procedure, for the first time on the entire French territory since the Algeria events in 1960.\n\nOn March 22, 2016 yet another terrorist attack happened within the confines of Europe. Three nail bombs went off at the same time in Belgium, two happened at Brussels Airport in Zaventem approximately 40 seconds apart. The other nail bomb was at Maalbeck metro station also in Brussels about an hour after the airport attacks The act was carried out by 3 suicide bombers, killing 31 people and injuring 300 people in the process. The three men were claimed as members of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria known as ISIS. The third nail bomb at the metro station failed to explode during the terrorist act that Tuesday and was safely deactivated. The two men who hit the Brussels Airport were brothers Ibrahim El Bakraoui and Khalid El Bakraoui while a third person was with them Najim Laachraoui who was believed to be the bomb maker also died, the suspect who had the bomb at the metro station has not yet been identified. The Brothers were both killed during the explosions along with the bomb maker, while the unidentified terrorist fled for he had the bomb that did not explode in the metro station.\n\nBrussels responded to this attack with a level 4 alert the highest it had had since the Paris attacks mentioned above. World leaders responded by unifying and offering their aid along with sorrows for the tragedy that happened there on March 22, 2016. 28 heads of state in the European union agreed to fight the War on Terror to better and protect the Union. The attacks on Brussels had no forewarning nor did officials think an attack on that scale could ever be perpetuated.\n\nOsama bin Laden, closely advised by Egyptian Islamic Jihad leader Ayman al-Zawahiri, in 1988 founded Al-Qaeda (Arabic: القاعدة, meaning \"The Base\"), an Islamic jihadist movement to replace Western-controlled or dominated Muslim countries with Islamic fundamentalist regimes. In pursuit of that goal, bin Laden issued a 1996 manifesto that vowed violent jihad against U.S. military forces based in Saudi Arabia. On August 7, 1998, individuals associated with Al Qaeda and Egyptian Islamic Jihad carried out simultaneous bombings of two U.S. embassies in Africa which resulted in 224 deaths. On October 12, 2000, Al-Qaeda carried out the USS Cole bombing, a suicide bombing of the U.S. Navy destroyer USS \"Cole\" harbored in the Yemeni port of Aden. The bombing killed seventeen U.S. sailors.\n\nOn September 11, 2001, nineteen men affiliated with al-Qaeda hijacked four commercial passenger jets all bound for California, crashing two of them into the World Trade Center in New York City, the third into the Pentagon in Arlington County, Virginia, and the fourth (originally intended to target Washington, D.C., either the White House or the U.S. Capitol) into an open field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, after a revolt by the plane's passengers. As a result of the attacks, 2,996 people (including the 19 hijackers) perished and more than 6,000 others were injured.\n\nThe United States responded to the attacks by launching the War on Terror. Specifically, on October 7, 2001, it invaded Afghanistan to depose the Taliban, which had harbored al-Qaeda terrorists. On October 26, 2001, the U.S. enacted the Patriot Act that expanded the powers of U.S. law enforcement and intelligence agencies. Many countries followed with similar legislation. Under the Obama administration, the U.S. changed tactics moving away from ground combat with large numbers of troops, to the use of drones and special forces. This campaign eliminated much of al-Qaeda's most senior members, including a strike by Seal Team Six that resulted in the death of Osama Bin Laden in 2011.\n\nOn Israel's northern border, after its unilateral withdrawal from southern Lebanon in May 2000, Hezbollah launched numerous Katyusha rocket attacks against non-civilian and civilian areas within northern Israel. Within Israel, the 1993–2008 Second Intifada involved in part a series of suicide bombings against civilian and non-civilian targets. 1100 Israelis were killed in the Second Intifada, the majority being civilians. A 2007 study of Palestinian suicide bombings from September 2000 through August 2005 found that 40% percent were carried out by Hamas's Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades, and roughly 26% by the Palestinian Islamic Jihad (PIJ) and Fatah militias. Also, between 2001 and January 2009, over 8,600 rocket attacks were launched from the Gaza Strip were launched into civilian areas and non-civilian areas inside Israel, causing deaths, injuries, and psychological trauma.\nFormed in 2003, Jundallah is a Sunni insurgent group from the Baloch region of Iran and neighboring Pakistan. It has committed numerous attacks within Iran, stating that it is fighting for the rights of the Sunni minority there. In 2005 the group attempted to assassinate Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. The group takes credit for other bombings, including the 2007 Zahedan bombings. Iran and other sources accuse the group of being a front for or supported by other nations, in particular the U.S. and Pakistan.\n\nAs the Islamic state of Syria and Iraq increases in size and power their attacks are affecting all parts of the world even in their own back yard of Turkey. Taking place in Istanbul a suicide bomber once again detonated a car bomb killing 4 people and injuring 31. No extremist group took responsibility for the attack but the attacker Mehmet Ozturk was linked to have ties with ISIS. This was just days after the car bomb attack in Turkeys capital of Ankara killing 37 people. The U.S. security council asked for the repeated terror attacks on Turkey to stop, and that the War on Terror will just become stronger due actions like these killing innocent people. Since the attacks Israel has requested that its citizens not travel to Turkey unless its necessary.\n\nOn December 27, 2007 two time elected Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto was assassinated during a gathering she was having with her supporters. A suicide bomber detonated a bomb along with other extremists against her shooting off guns killing the prime minister and 14 other people. She was immediately rushed to the hospital and was pronounced dead. She was believed to be target because she was warning Pakistan along with the world of the uprising Jihadist groups and extremist groups gaining power. The responsibility of her death falls on the president of the time Pervez Musharraf who also was the ex- military chief, She had several conversations with Musharraf about upping her security due to the increase of death threats she was receiving and he denied her request. Although AL-Qaeda took responsibility for her death it is seen in the eye of the people as former President's Pervez Musharraf's fault for not taking her concerns seriously. However, during his trial he denies that no conversation happened between him and Benzair Bhutto about the security of her life.\n\nThe 2008 Mumbai attacks were more than ten coordinated shooting and bombing attacks across Mumbai, India's largest city, by Lashkar-e-Taiba, a Pakistani Islamic terrorist organization with ties to ISI, Pakistan's secret service. The six main targets were \n The attacks, which drew widespread condemnation across the world, began on 26 November 2008 and lasted until 29 November, killing at least 173 people and wounding at least 308.\n\nOn January 14, 2016 a series of terrorist attacks took place in Jakarta, Indonesia resulting in 8 dead. The responsibility of these attacks were claimed by ISIS Counter terrorism has named this type of attack 'Marauding Terrorist Firearms Attack' because of the fast reaction needed by local policemen to stop the gunfire attack from the terrorists. The attack on Jakarta is linked to a bigger picture of terror in the Indonesian country for those of ISIS. Indonesia is home of the \"largest regional terror groups\" housing seven Islamist extremist groups. Leaving the thoughts that ISIS is trying to establish a satellite city in Indonesia, due to the fact that it has the largest Muslim population. Although ISIS branches have not yet reached the land of Southeast Asia in big masses, there is the fear that it is only a matter of time until Indonesias small extremist groups grow in masses once direct contact with ISIS is made. Once contact is established local terror groups will quickly mobilize to carry out the tasks that ISIS asks of them. ISIS will turn to Southeast Asia because it is only evident that they will lose control of the middle east.\n\n2001 also saw the second acknowledged act of bioterrorism with the 2001 anthrax attacks (the first being intentional food poisoning conducted in The Dalles, Oregon by Rajneeshee followers in 1984), when letters carrying anthrax spores were posted to several major American media outlets and two Democratic Party politicians. This resulted in several of the first fatalities attributed to a bioterror attack.\n\nThe more recent terrorist attack in the United States have included the 2015 San Bernardino attack, the Bombing of Boston Marathon by Islamic terrorists, the shooting of police officers in sniper ambushes by members of Black Lives Matter movement, and the shooting of multiple black parishioners at church and car attack on anti-fascist protesters in Charlottesville by right-wing extremists and white supremacists. There have been calls by some analysts to describe violence committed by incels as terrorism.\n"}
{"id": "30455197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30455197", "title": "Khojaly–Gadabay culture", "text": "Khojaly–Gadabay culture\n\nThe Khodzhaly-Kedabek culture (also \"Khojaly-Gadabay\" and variants (, Russian ), also known as the Gandzha-Karabakh culture (ганджа-карабахская культура) is an archaeological culture of the Late Bronze Age to Early Iron Age (roughly 13th to 7th centuries BC) in the Karabakh region of Transcaucasia. The eponymous sites are at Khojaly, Gadabay and Ganja in Azerbaijan.\n\nIt was excavated by Soviet archaeologists beginning in the 1920s.\n\nIt was described by Boris Piotrovsky and other archaeologists specializing in the prehistory of Transcaucasia during the 1930s to 1970s.\n"}
{"id": "24456342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24456342", "title": "Land of Legends (Sagnlandet Lejre)", "text": "Land of Legends (Sagnlandet Lejre)\n\nThe Land of Legends, \"Centre for Historical-Archaeological Research and Communication\" (in Danish \"Sagnlandet Lejre\" and formerly known as Lejre Experimental Centre) is a 106-acre (43 hectare) archaeological open-air museum situated in the Lejre Municipality, few kilometres west of Roskilde (Denmark). \n\nLand of Legends was founded in 1964 by ethnologist Hans-Ole Hansen and comprise reconstructions of an Iron Age village and sacrificial bog (200 BC to 200 AD), a Viking market place (900 AD), a Stone Age campsite (5000 BC), an 18th-century farmstead and various grave monuments. The historical artisan workshops (the pottery, the weaver's workshop, the smithy) work to reproduce (pre-)historical handicraft. Gardens, pastures and fields are the natural scenario of activities and reconstructions. At the Land of Legends Lejre, the activities for the public utilizes previous techniques, known from historical documents, archaeological evidence or experimental archaeology.\n\nEach summer many families spend a week of their holidays in the Iron Age village, the farm cottages and the Stone Age campsite. They dress in period costume and take on the role of peopling the reconstructed areas, while trying to live using the techniques of the past.\n\nMany archaeologists from all over the world come to the Land of Legends to perform their experiments, dealing with a broad variety of subjects and artifacts. For example, the Land of Legends has several times supported the experimental work of Errett Callahan, one of the world's most recognised flintknappers.\n\nAround 55,000 tourists and school children visit Lejre each year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35329066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35329066", "title": "Latino vote", "text": "Latino vote\n\nThe Latino vote or the Hispanic vote refers to the voting trends during elections in the United States by eligible voters of Latino or Hispanic background. This phrase is usually mentioned by the media as a way to label voters of this ethnicity, and to opine that this demographic group could potentially tilt the outcome of an election, and how candidates have developed messaging strategies to this ethnic group.\nA study by the Center for Immigration Studies projected that in November 2012 Hispanics would comprise 17.2 percent of the total U.S. population, 15 percent of adults, 11.2 percent of adult citizens, and 8.9 percent of actual voters. By comparison, the report found that in 2012, non-Hispanic whites are expected to be 73.4 percent of the national vote and non-Hispanic blacks are expected to be 12.2 percent. The report noted that by weight \"eight percentage points of the Hispanic vote nationally equals slightly less than one percentage point of the non-Hispanic white vote.\" The study also found that the 8.9 percent Hispanic share of voters compares to veterans (12 percent of the electorate), those with family incomes above $100,000 (18 percent), seniors 65 and older (19 percent), married persons (60 percent), and those who live in owner-occupied housing (80 percent).\n\nIn terms of voter turnout, the Center for Immigration Studies projected that 52.7 percent (± 0.6) of eligible Hispanics will vote in the 2012 election, an increase from 49.9 percent in 2008 and a continuation of the past decade's long upward trend. The projected Hispanic voter participation rate of 52.7 percent compares to 66.1 percent for non-Hispanic whites and 65.2 percent for non-Hispanic blacks in 2008.\n\nStates with the most share of eligible Latino voters in 2016 were: New Mexico (40.4%), Texas (28.1%), California (28.0%), Arizona (21.5%), Florida (18.1%), Nevada (17.2%), Colorado (14.5%), and New York (13.8%). \nThe amount of Latinos who participate in political activities varies, but rarely exceeds half of adults. In general, Latinos participate in common civic activities, such as voting, at lower rates than non-Hispanic Whites or Blacks. Approximately 57.9 percent of U.S. citizen adult Latinos were registered to vote at the time of the 2004 election, and 47.2 percent turned out to vote. The registration and turnout rates are approximately 10 percent lower than those of non-Hispanic blacks and 18 percent lower than those of non-Hispanic whites.\n\nTo explain low voter turnout among Latinos, researchers have analyzed voter participation demographics throughout many years. Researchers have found many explanations as towards why Latinos have a low voter turn out. There are explanations that account for physical barriers such as lack of transportation. As well as systemic barriers such as, harassment, discrimination, inadequate numbers of polling booths, inconvenient placements of polling booths, and biased administration of election laws may suppress Latino access to registering and voting. \n\nOne of the biggest explanation for low Latino voter turn outs is associated with accurately measuring the Latino vote based on a general population that includes many non-citizens. The number of adult non-U.S. citizens rose from 1.9 million in 1976 to more than 8.4 million in 2000, a 350 percent increase. Thus, the share of Latino nonparticipants are overwhelmingly non-U.S. citizens. \n\nAnother explanation for low levels of Latino voter turnout stems from the relatively young age of the Latino population. For example, 40 percent of the California Latino population was under eighteen years of age in 1985.\n\nIndividuals with lower incomes vote at lower rates than people with higher incomes. In terms of income, the general argument is that individuals with higher socioeconomic status have the civic skills, the participatory attitudes, and the time and money to facilitate participation. Education is also positively related to participation and vote choice, as Latinos with a college degree and postgraduate training are more likely to vote. More than 30 percent of Hispanic adult citizens have less than a high school education, while 12 percent of non-Hispanic white adult citizens have less than a high school education. Therefore, low participation may result from low levels of knowledge about the political process that should be garnered through formal education.\n\nAlthough turn out for Latinos is low, it has been noted that Latinos residing in communities with a large Latino population are more likely to turn out to vote .\n\nThere is a significant amount of literature dedicated to analyzing what influences Latino vote choices. One strong determinant has been found to be religion, which is believed to play a role in defining the political attitudes and behaviors of Latino voters. Latinos have long been associated with Catholicism with respect to faith and religious identity and with the Democratic Party with regard to political allegiance and identity. Although most Latinos affiliate themselves with the Democratic Party, the Latino National Political Survey, has found a consistent finding that Latinos identify themselves ideologically as moderates and conservatives. Social conservatism usually originates from religion, which often times predicts Latino’s opposition to abortion, same-sex marriage, support for the death penalty, and support for traditional gender roles. \n\nPolitical ads have also been studied to determine how they influence Latino voting behavior. In a study conducted by Abrajano, it was concluded that different political ads influence Latino vote choices depending on how assimilated individuals are to American life. For Spanish dominated Latinos, political ads that tapped into ethnic identity seemed to be the most influential. On the other hand, for assimilated Latinos, ethnic appeals did have some influence but exposure to more informative policy ads in English or Spanish had a greater impact on these voters decision to vote .\nIn the United States, the Latino or Hispanic vote is typically associated with immigration issues such as immigration reform, immigration enforcement and amnesty for undocumented immigrants, usually with images of Mexican illegal immigrants crossing the border or being arrested by the border patrol, despite the fact that in many cases immigration could be an issue no more important than unemployment or the economy for many Latino American citizens.\n\nData from both the 2002 and 1999 National Surveys on Latinos revealed that over 60% percent of Latinos favor a larger government with more government programs, even if this means higher taxes. Government programs that Latinos are more likely to advocate for are those that focus on issues such as crime control and drug prevention, child care services, environmental protection, science and technology, defense, and programs for refugees and immigrants\n\nAccording to the National Exit Poll, in 2012 60% of Latino voters identified the economy as the most important issue the country was facing. Education is also a constant preoccupation among Latino voters. Latinos emphasize education, mentioning such issues as expanding the number of schools, reducing class sizes, and adding to the cultural sensitivity of teachers and curricula . Other educational concerns expressed by Latinos include ensuring that children are able to advance to the next educational level. Following the economy and education, health care (18%), the federal budget deficit (11%) and foreign policy (6%), were other concerns among the Latino population. \nAccording to Pew Research Center projections, 27.3 million Latinos are eligible to vote, representing 12% of all eligible voters. For the 2016 election, millennials made up 44% of Latino eligible voters which is a 80% increase since 2012 . In 2016, 57% of Hispanic voters said they were dissatisfied with the way things are going in the country, up from 50% in 2012 . Three-quarters of Hispanic registered voters said they had discussed Trump’s comments about Hispanics or other groups with family, friends or coworkers, which made them more willing to vote in this election . \n\n"}
{"id": "41783145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41783145", "title": "Man Eaters and Jungle Killers", "text": "Man Eaters and Jungle Killers\n\nMan Eaters and Jungle Killers is the second book of jungle tales and man-eaters written by Kenneth Anderson, first published in 1957 by George Allen & Unwin Ltd.\n\nIntroduction\n\nAnderson writes of the effect progressing civilization and industrialization is having on the natural world. He writes these stories not only to give pleasure to the adventurous, but to provide a record of what the great forests of India were once like.\n\nThe Marauder of Kempekarai\n\nAnderson pursues a man-eating tiger in the Kempekarai area, un-sure that the tiger will accept cattle baits, Anderson tries to lure the tiger by using the noisy pulley on the village well. Failing to procure a shot, the next day he sits in a tree hide, only to be spotted by the man-eater and gashed by the tiger's claws through the hide chair. In his next attempt Anderson constructs a hide using a large wagon cart wheel buried against some large boulders - creating a hide space in between to sit over a crude human dummy. The dummy first attracts the attention of a sloth bear, and then the man-eater. The man-eater attacks Anderson from above, but flees after gun fire. A storm then breaks and Anderson is left fighting to get out of his built in hide before the flood waters come in.\n\nAlam Bux and the Big Black Bear\n\nA disgruntled sloth bear starts mauling humans in the Nagvara Hills region – attacking in the typical bear fashion by clawing the face apart – leaving most victims to die of their wounds. When the son of Anderson's friend, Alam Bux is fatally attacked by the bear – Anderson comes to his aid. During the course of the next few weeks Anderson follows up on further bear attacks, during one of which he badly hurts his ankle leaving himself barely able to walk. Four days later Anderson returns to a field where the bear had been sighted, and sits out under a large fruit tree to try to get a final shot at the animal.\n\nThe Mamandur Man-Eater\n\nThe story of a young, female man-eating tiger, which Anderson suggests gained the habit from the man-eating tiger previously documented in 'The Striped Terror of Chamala Valley' ('Nine Maneaters And One Rogue'). Anderson arrives in the area and upon finding the latest human kill by a railway line, lies down on the track and awaits the return of the tiger. Whilst waiting patiently he notices the victims severed head begins to move - eventually he discovers that a rhinoceros beetle is trying to roll away the head. His wait is then interrupted by the arrival of a train, the train staff are then horrified when they discover Anderson's reason for lying on the tracks. After further attempts to attract the tigress with bait, Anderson by chance ends up luring the tiger by imitating a mating call.\n\nThe Crossed-Tusker of Gerhetti\n\nA rogue elephant with distinctive overlapping tusks plagues the Gerhetti area, killing a number of people. Anderson arrives and his first days are wasted in tracking the wrong elephant, before he finally finds the distinctive crossed tusks he's looking for.\n\nThe Sangam Panther\n\nA man-eating panther in the Sangam area proves a tricky foe for Anderson as it will not be lured by animal baits. To solve the issue Anderson uses himself as bait, waiting for the panther in the center of a cattle pen. After spending the night being eaten by cattle ticks, the following night he waits dangerously exposed for the panther by lying on the top of a metal roof.\n\nThe Ramapuram Tiger\n\nFollowing an injury from a Gin trap, a cattle lifter turns man-eating tiger in Ramapuram. On following the drag marks of one of the live baits taken in the night, Anderson comes across a tigress and small cubs and is surprised when she does not charge. Anderson finds another one of his baits has been killed, and when he approaches the kill to examine it he is surprised by the man-eater who is still by the bullock. The man-eater's charge is hindered by the bulk of the dead bullock, giving Anderson time to make his shot.\n\nThe Great Panther of Mudiyanoor\n\nA friend of Anderson at the Moyar Valley Ranch is plagued by a local panther, and when it kills his Alsatian he writes to Anderson for his help. Anderson's son Donald takes over the writing of the story as he heads to Mudiyanoor in his place, taking with him a photographer friend. Whilst on the trail of the panther the animal charges them, Anderson's friend is luckily enough to get a photo of the panther in mid-charge, and luckier still that Donald was a fast and good enough shot to stop the panther from coming any further.\n\nThe Mauler of Rajnagara \n\nA tiger in the Rajnagara region develops a peculiar habit of mauling humans, never using its teeth on its prey - only its claws to wound. 11 of its 33 maul victims later died from their wounds or from blood poisoning. Anderson arrives on the scene at the time of a fresh human kill, and in inadequate shoes starts to track the tiger through the jungle. Despite sitting up over putrid human remains under the hot daytime sun - Anderson fails in his attempts to shoot the mauler. This story later continues in 'The Maneater of Pegepalyam' (The Black Panther of Sivanipalli and Other Adventures of the Indian Jungle) and concludes in 'From Mauler to Maneater' (The Call of the Man Eater).\n\n"}
{"id": "8345665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8345665", "title": "Marcelle Lalou", "text": "Marcelle Lalou\n\nMarcelle Lalou (1890–1967) was a 20th-century French Tibetologist. Her major contribution to Tibetology was the cataloging of the entire Pelliot collection of Old Tibetan manuscripts from Dunhuang at the Bibliothèque nationale de France. In addition to her cataloging work, she wrote articles on various aspects of Old Tibet, and she published a Tibetan textbook. Some of her most notable students include Rolf A. Stein and J. W. de Jong.\n\nLalou was born August 23, 1890 at Meudon-Bellevue between Paris and Versailles. She was interested in art from an early age, and she painted and drew for pleasure her whole life. Her studies began in Art History, and many of her early publications are devoted to Art-historical themes.\n\nLalou volunteered as a nurse in the first world war. She made her start in Buddhist Studies following the war, studying Sanskrit with Sylvain Lévi and Tibetan with Jacques Bacot. She finished her doctorate in 1927 at the École Pratique des Hautes Études, where she later taught from 1938 to 1963. She was the secretary and later manager for the \"Bibliographie Bouddhique\", and she was the chief editor of \"Journal Asiatique\" from 1950 to 1966. For her work, Lalou was dubbed a Knight of the Légion d'honneur.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36805370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36805370", "title": "Molière authorship question", "text": "Molière authorship question\n\nThe Molière authorship question is a controversy started in 1919 when Pierre Louÿs, in two articles titled \"Corneille est-il l'auteur d'Amphitryon ?\" (\"Is Corneille the author of \"Amphitryon\"?\") and \"Molière est un chef-d'œuvre de Corneille\" (\"Molière is a masterpiece by Corneille\"), claimed that he had uncovered a literary hoax. According to him, Molière had not written his own plays and had had Pierre Corneille for a ghostwriter; or, more precisely, Molière was a proxy for Corneille, following a practice which Louÿs believed was common but which one in fact does not encounter in 17th Century literature except for pamphlets and some collections of scholarly jokes around the turn of the century.\n\nLouÿs therefore wrote in line with two recent publications by Abel Lefranc, a professor at the Collège de France, who had contributed to discussion of the Shakespeare authorship question by publishing one by one in 1918 and 1919 the two volumes of a book titled \"Sous le masque de William Shakespeare : William Stanley, VIe comte de Derby\", propounding the Derbyite theory of Shakespeare authorship. Louÿs, who had himself, throughout his career, published a number of works under different pseudonyms—he had even made his name by passing off his \"The Songs of Bilitis\" as an original collection of Greek poems translated by him—but had not in his vast correspondence suggested any possible link between Molière and Corneille, jumped at the chance to transpose onto Molière the doubt that some English-speaking authors (well before Abel Lefranc) had expressed about Shakespeare and to lend thus to Corneille the same taste for pseudonymity.\n\nThis contention, which attracted interest from time to time through the 20th Century after the splash made by Louÿs, has been renewed at the beginning of the 2000s, notably with the publication in a scientific journal of two articles attempting to use stylometric analysis to show the closeness of vocabulary and syntax between Corneille and Molière; but, in both cases, the inquiry was not expanded to other authors of comedies in the 17th Century to verify whether the similarity between Corneille and Molière is any greater than with their other contemporaries. As in the case of Shakespeare, this theory is rejected by all experts on Corneille and Molière, as well as historians of literature and French drama generally, who do not even mention it.\n"}
{"id": "51939831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51939831", "title": "Multiracial feminist theory", "text": "Multiracial feminist theory\n\nMultiracial feminist theory is a feminist theory thought to have gained momentum in the 1970s by feminist women of color. Maxine Baca Zinn and Bonnie Thornton Dill wrote \"“Theorizing Difference from Multiracial Feminism”\" in 1996, a piece emphasising intersectionality and the application of intersectional analysis in feminist discourse.\n\nWomen of color have challenged the use of the second-wave movement as it places women's oppression at the root of sexism, without any regards to other forms of domination. Generally speaking, women of color acknowledge that race acted as a foundational power structure that heavily effected their lives. The activist work of WOC has been erased from the second wave movement. The term, \"multiracial\" was used to illustrate the importance of race interacting with other forms of oppression to understand gender relations. With a focus on race, multiracial feminism acknowledges, \"the social construction of differently situated social groups and their varying degrees of advantages and power\". One definition of multiracial feminism is, \"an attempt to go beyond a mere recognition of diversity and difference among women to examine structures of domination, specifically the importance of race in understanding the social construction of gender.\" The central point of this perspective is to focus in on the significance of race, institutionalized racism, and struggles against racial oppression to understand how various forms of domination influence women's experiences.\n\nA product, in part, of Chicana feminism, multiracial feminist theory covers a wide range of gender-based, racial and political discourses intended to further analyze the interlocking oppressions minorities, women, women of color and other oppressions individuals face.\n\nHaving first gained steam in the 1970s, multiracial feminism grew as a movement to challenge racist, classist, and sexist barriers not as separate, singular matters but as interlocking identities that make up both privilege and oppression. Multiracial feminism is described as a “liberation movement spearheaded by women of color” and focused primarily on intersectional analysis and both an international and a multiracial approach to oppression.\n\nAlthough not acknowledged by the second wave movement, women of color and white women took a stand to combat racism and colonialism. Black feminists believed that, \"cross-racial struggle made clear the work that white women needed to do in order for cross-racial sisterhood to really be powerful.\" White women also recognized that sexism was not the root of women's oppression. They collaborated to put forth an anti-rascist movement that incorporated interlocking forms of oppression.\n\n\nIt is widely agreed by many if not most multiracial feminists that multiracial feminist theory is needed in order to broaden feminist discourse and bring much-needed intersectionality to contemporary feminist movements. In spite of this, however, multiracial feminism struggles to gain momentum as an intersectional approach to combating oppression and is fairly new concept in the world of quantitative research. New though it may be, Catherine Harnios in her book, \"Feminist Measure in Survey Research,\" writes that multiracial feminism may be more beneficial to feminist discourse than once thought.\n\nFamily study, formation and power relations have been extensively examined using a multiracial feminist approach, the results of which reveal a hidden power dynamic between “advantaged families and disadvantaged families.” Advantaged families have been shown to rely upon the labor and disadvantage of poorer families, women, women of color, minorities and immigrants.\n\nWomen of color provide an \"outsider within\" perspective as they are active participants in domination while also continue to be oppressed by it. In understanding multiracial feminism, it is important to note how interlocking forms of oppression persist to marginalize groups of people. Although people continue to be oppressed, others are privileged at the sacrifice of those who don't obtain benefits of the system. Patricia Hill Collins defines the term, Matrix of Domination, to refer to how various forms of oppression work different depending on what social location one obtains. In reference to this term, people will have varying experiences with gender, class, race, & sexuality, depending on what social position one has in relation to structural powers. In terms of interlocking oppressions, this results in different social groups experiencing varying subordination and privilege.\n\nThough women of color are rarely credited as being prevalent in the 2nd Wave feminist movement, it has become evident that multiracial feminism was very much present in the 1980s through the 1990s and even today.\n\nIn the 1970s, women of color worked alongside hegemonic, white feminist groups but found it to be mostly centered on the white, middleclass feminist issues of the time. With the help of white, anti-racist women, women of color gave rise to multiracial feminist theory and led to the development of organizations created by and for women of color.\n\nMultiracial feminists of the 1980s challenged white feminism by speaking out of the individual experiences of women of color, immigrants, and “third-world women” who had been largely swept under the rug. This was mostly done through multiracial feminist writings which have been revealed to date as far back as the 1960s.\n\nThere has been a notable increase of multiracial feminists, journalists and bloggers using online media to write about and theorize on intersectionality and multiracial experience as it relates to class, gender and race cooperatively in contemporary society.\n\nJournalist for \"msmagazine.com\", Janell Hobson, wrote a critique of white feminist activism pointing out the fact that women of color are still being left out of the conversation in current feminist discourse. She claims that it is time feminists “reclaim solidarity” by recognizing race and gender as being intertwined, rather than separate matters to be deal with individually.\n\nSimilarly, Lara Witt who writes for \"Rewire.news\", calls upon both her privilege and oppression to understand her role as a multiracial feminist with the ability to speak out against racism towards Black, Hispanic, and Indian people.\n\nIn April 1996, there was a rally in Middletown, Connecticut led by a multiracial coalition. Taking place at Wesleyan University, the rally was organized in defense of journalist and author Mumia Abu-Jamal who had been placed on death row in Pennsylvania.\n\nSome criticisms have been raised challenging whether or not multiracial feminist theory can actually produce measurable results due to a lack of “existing survey tools” by which to quantify or examine those experiences. It is unclear as to whether or not these criticisms will be the undoing of multiracial feminist theory or if such drawbacks can be overcome with more time and research.\n\n"}
{"id": "1509152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1509152", "title": "Pantomime dame", "text": "Pantomime dame\n\nA pantomime dame is a traditional role in British pantomime. It is a continuation of \"travesti\" portrayal of female characters by male actors in drag. They are often played either in an extremely camp style, or else by men acting 'butch' in women's clothing. They wear big make up and big hair, have exaggerated physical features, and perform in a melodramatic style. While not from pantomime, possibly the best known of this type of character is Dame Edna Everage whose name plays on two meanings of \"dame\": this tradition and the title equivalent to \"Sir\".\n\nCharacters who are played as pantomime dames are often - though not exclusively - older, matronly women. Indeed, they may be the protagonist's mother, as in \"Jack and the Beanstalk\" and \"Robinson Crusoe\", or a nursemaid to the protagonist, as in \"Sleeping Beauty\" and \"Snow White\". Although often warm and sympathetic characters, dames may also be employed as comic antagonists, such as with the Ugly Sisters in \"Cinderella\". Some pantomimes traditionally do not contain standard dame roles, but certain productions may add a dame character, as in the case with many pantomime versions of \"Peter Pan\". Further examples of these characters include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27720373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27720373", "title": "Philip José Farmer bibliography", "text": "Philip José Farmer bibliography\n\nIn a writing career spanning more than 60 years (1946–2008), American science fiction and fantasy author Philip José Farmer published almost 60 novels, over 100 short stories and novellas (many expanded or combined into novels), two \"fictional biographies\", and numerous essays, articles and ephemera in fan publications.\n\nOriginal publications:\n\nLater compilations:\n\n\nLord Grandrith (inspired by Tarzan) and Doc Caliban (inspired by Doc Savage) as half-brothers involved in a world-ruling conspiracy.\n\n\n\nThe Khokarsa series, set circa 10,000 BC with the John Gribardsun version of Tarzan (from \"Time's Last Gift\") as a supporting character using the name Sahhindar.\n\n\n\n\nCo-authored novels:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "418144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=418144", "title": "Photoplay", "text": "Photoplay\n\nPhotoplay was one of the first American film fan magazines. It was founded in 1911 in Chicago, the same year that J. Stuart Blackton founded \"Motion Picture Story,\" a magazine also directed at fans. For most of its run, \"Photoplay\" was published by Macfadden Publications. In 1921 \"Photoplay\" established what is considered the first significant annual movie award. The magazine ceased publication in 1980.\n\n\"Photoplay\" began as a short-fiction magazine concerned mostly with the plots and characters of films at the time and was used as a promotional tool for those films. In 1915, Julian Johnson and James R. Quirk became the editors (though Quirk had been vice president of the magazine since its inception), and together they created a format which would set a precedent for almost all celebrity magazines that followed. By 1918 the circulation exceeded 200,000, with the popularity of the magazine fueled by the public's increasing interest in the private lives of celebrities.\n\n\"Photoplay\" reached its apex in the 1920s and 1930s and was considered quite influential within the motion picture industry. The magazine was renowned for its artwork portraits of film stars on the cover by such artists as Earl Christy and Charles Sheldon. Macfadden Publications purchased the magazine in 1934. With the advancement of color photography, the magazine began using photographs of the stars instead by 1937.\n\n\"Photoplay\" published the writings of Hedda Hopper, Walter Winchell, Hazel MacDonald, Adela Rogers St. Johns, Sheilah Graham, Dorothy Kilgallen, Rob Wagner, later editor and publisher of Rob Wagner's Script, and Louella Parsons, among others. The magazine was edited by Quirk until 1932; later editors include Kathyrn Dougherty, Ruth Waterbury, and Adele Whiteley Fletcher. It also featured the health and beauty advice of Sylvia of Hollywood, arguably the first fitness guru to the stars.\n\nSidney Skolsky, a nationally syndicated gossip columnist for the \"New York Daily News\" and later the \"New York Daily Mirror\" had a regular column in \"Photoplay\" called \"From A Stool At Schwab’s\", the Hollywood drugstore he made famous, such was the magazine's popularity.\n\nIn 1921 \"Photoplay\" established what is considered the first significant annual movie award, the Photoplay Magazine Medal of Honor. An actual medallion produced by Tiffany & Co., it was voted on by the readers of the magazine and given to the producer of the year's best film, chosen with an emphasis on (according to Quirk) \"the ideals and motives governing its production... the worth of its dramatic message.\" Though \"Photoplay\" only gave the single award for best film, its intentions and standards were influential on the Academy Awards founded later in the decade, and they overlap on Best Picture choices to some extent, though increasingly in the 1930s \"Photoplay\"'s choices reflected its primarily female audience. By 1939 the Medal of Honor had declined in importance and the award was discontinued that year.\n\nFrom 1944 to 1968, \"Photoplay\" awarded a Gold Medal for film of the year based on polling done by George Gallup's Audience Research Inc. through the 1950s, and then voted on by the magazine's readers. It also awarded Most Popular Male Star and Most Popular Female Star based on an actor and actress' popularity, not their performance. The awards were based on polling through the 1950s, and then on a vote by the readers, similar to the Gold Medal. Bing Crosby and Greer Garson were frequently named the most popular film stars during the 1940s and later winners of the title included James Stewart, Jane Wyman, Alan Ladd, Marilyn Monroe, Rock Hudson and Kim Novak. Most popular television stars were also named in the 1960s. In 1948, the \"Photoplay Awards\" were broadcast on network television as part of \"The Steve Allen Plymouth Show\".\n\n\"Photoplay\" merged with another fan magazine, \"Movie Mirror\", in 1941; and with \"TV-Radio Mirror\" in 1977, when the name became \"Photoplay and TV Mirror\". The magazine ceased publication in 1980 and its staff was moved to \"Us\" magazine.\n\nA British version of \"Photoplay\" debuted in 1950, featuring an equal mix of American and British films and stars, and ceased publication in 1989.\n\n"}
{"id": "2232336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2232336", "title": "Sangay National Park", "text": "Sangay National Park\n\nSangay National Park () is a national park located in the Morona Santiago, Chimborazo and Tungurahua provinces of Ecuador. The park contains two active volcanoes (Tungurahua and Sangay), one extinct volcano El Altar (Kapak Urku), and ecosystems ranging from tropical rainforests to glaciers.\n\nThe park has been listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site since 1983. In 1992, it was added to the List of World Heritage in Danger due to illegal poaching, extensive grazing, unplanned road construction and encroachment of the park's perimeter. It was removed from the UNESCO list of endangered sites in 2005.\n\nThe National Park is an important refuge for rare species of the Andes, like mountain tapir and spectacled bear. Especially for the mountain tapir, the park is one of the most important strongholds.\nIn the forests below live spectacled bears, giant otter, jaguar, ocelot, margay, Brazilian tapir, white-tailed deer (\"Odocoileus virginianus ustus\"), little red brocket deer and Northern pudu. About 300-400 bird species inhabit the Park.\n\nThe cougar and pampas cat have been recorded in the park as well.\n\nIn 2016, a new \"Pristimantis\" species was described from the park's cloud forest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51196189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51196189", "title": "Sharmin and Bijan Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Iran and Persian Gulf Studies", "text": "Sharmin and Bijan Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Iran and Persian Gulf Studies\n\nThe Sharmin and Bijan Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Iran and Persian Gulf Studies () is a study center department at Princeton University. Its aim is to support teaching and research of Iran and Persian Gulf studies and to create and support productive and innovative connections across departments throughout the University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "116637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=116637", "title": "Stockton, Maryland", "text": "Stockton, Maryland\n\nStockton is a census-designated place (CDP) in Worcester County, Maryland, United States. The population was 143 at the 2000 census. It is part of the Salisbury, Maryland-Delaware Metropolitan Statistical Area.\n\nStockton, originally called Sandy Hill, grew up at the crossing of the post road from Snow Hill south to Virginia (whose track is generally followed by modern Maryland Route 12) with the road from Mattapony Landing on the Pocomoke River to the Chincoteague Bay (the eastern part of which is now Maryland Route 366), where small ocean-going vessels could drop anchor. The landing on Chincoteague Bay came to be known as George Island Landing. Settlement in the area began in the 1660s, when the area was still part of Somerset County. Worcester County was separated from Somerset in 1742, and by 1774 Sandy Hill had grown large enough to merit a chapel of ease within All Hallows' Parish, today called Holy Cross Chapel. Sandy Hill, unlike neighboring Girdletree, was never incorporated, but in 1870 the name of the town was officially changed, by act of the legislature, from Sandy Hill to Stockton, commemorating the Rev. Thomas H. Stockton, a prominent Methodist minister. In 1872 the Worcester County election district which took its name from Sandy Hill was renamed Stockton.\n\nIn 1876, a railroad (which would eventually become part of the Pennsylvania Railroad) was laid from Franklin City and Greenbackville in Virginia to Snow Hill. The line's main purpose was to haul seafood harvested from the Atlantic Ocean and Chincoteague Bay to Philadelphia, but the line also carried passengers. To avoid confusion with other Stocktons around the country, the station at Stockton was named Hursley Station.\n\nThe center of Stockton was destroyed by fire in 1906, but was soon rebuilt, with many of the new buildings constructed of brick. During the late 19th and early 20th centuries, Stockton boasted a hotel, five churches, a post office, three stores, a canning factory, two sawmills, and two barrel factories. However, the overfishing of Chincoteague Bay led to a permanent decline in the commercial seafood industry.\n\nA new Stockton High School was dedicated in 1926. Grades 7th to 11th were discontinued in 1942, but grades 1st to 6th continued until 1960, when the school was closed. Stockton's only bank failed in 1929. Passenger trains ended service in the late 1940s, and the last freight train made its final run through Stockton in approximately 1955. Holy Cross Chapel stopped holding regular services in 1943. Gunby Presbyterian Church holds only one service per month. The Stockton Poultry Plant opened as World War II ended, but closed around 1970. Today, Stockton residents are as likely to work at NASA's Wallops Island Flight Facility on the Eastern Shore of Virginia than to be farmers or watermen. The post office was closed in 2012, and no business of any kind is now in operation.\n\nStockton is located at (38.057233, −75.416661).\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the CDP has a total area of , all of it land.\n\nMaryland Route 12 and Maryland Route 366 cross in the center of Stockton.\n\nApproximately two miles east of Stockton is an extensive network of manmade canals.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 143 people, 49 households, and 39 families residing in the CDP. The population density was 82.8 people per square mile (31.9/km²). There were 55 housing units at an average density of 31.8/sq mi (12.3/km²). The racial makeup of the CDP was 37.06% White, 60.84% African American, 1.40% Native American, and 0.70% from two or more races.\n\nThere were 49 households out of which 28.6% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 51.0% were married couples living together, 26.5% had a female householder with no husband present, and 20.4% were non-families. 16.3% of all households were made up of individuals and 8.2% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.92 and the average family size was 3.23.\n\nIn the CDP, the population was spread out with 25.9% under the age of 18, 10.5% from 18 to 24, 25.9% from 25 to 44, 21.7% from 45 to 64, and 16.1% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 37 years. For every 100 females, there were 66.3 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 68.3 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the CDP was $14,583, and the median income for a family was $25,833. Males had a median income of $13,750 versus $0 for females. The per capita income for the CDP was $5,776. There were 42.3% of families and 45.0% of the population living below the poverty line, including 63.8% of under eighteens and none of those over 64.\n"}
{"id": "753916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=753916", "title": "Text Encoding Initiative", "text": "Text Encoding Initiative\n\nThe Text Encoding Initiative (TEI) is a text-centric community of practice in the academic field of digital humanities, operating continuously since the 1980s. The community currently runs a mailing list, meetings and conference series, and maintains an eponymous technical standard, a journal, a wiki, a GitHub repository and a toolchain.\n\nThe \"TEI Guidelines\", which collectively define an XML format, are the defining output of the community of practice. The format differs from other well-known open formats for text (such as HTML and OpenDocument) in that it's primarily semantic rather than presentational; the semantics and interpretation of every tag and attribute are specified.\nSome 500 different textual components and concepts\n(word,\nsentence,\ncharacter,\nglyph,\nperson,\netc.); each is grounded in one or more academic discipline and examples are given.\n\nThe standard is split into two parts, a discursive textual description with extended examples and discussion and set of tag-by-tag definitions. Schemata in most of the modern formats (DTD, RELAX NG and W3C Schema) are generated automatically from the tag-by-tag definitions. A number of tools support the production of the guidelines and the application of the guidelines to specific projects.\n\nA number of special tags are used to circumvent restrictions imposed by the underlying Unicode; glyph to allow representation of characters that don't qualify for Unicode inclusion and choice to allow overcome the required strict linearity.\n\nMost users of the format do not use the complete range of tags but produce a customisation, using a project-specific subset of the tags and attributes defined by the Guidelines. The TEI defines a sophisticated customization mechanism known as ODD for this purpose. In addition to documenting and describing each TEI tag, an ODD specification specifies its content model and other usage constraints, which may be expressed using schematron.\n\n\"TEI Lite\" is an example of such a customization. It defines an XML-based file format for exchanging texts. It is a manageable selection from the extensive set of elements available in the full TEI Guidelines.\n\nThe text of the TEI guidelines is rich in examples. There is also a samples page on the TEI wiki which gives examples of real-world projects which expose their underlying TEI.\n\nTEI allows texts to be marked up syntactically at any level of granularity, or mixture of granularities. For example, this paragraph (p) has been marked up into sentences (s) and clauses (cl).\n\nTEI has tags for marking up verse. This example (taken from the French translation of the TEI Guidelines) shows a sonnet\n<div type=\"sonnet\">\n</div>\n\nThe choice tag is used to represent sections of text which might be encoded or tagged in more than one possible way. In the following example, based on one in the standard, choice is used twice, once to indicate an original and a corrected year and once to indicate an original and regularised spelling.\n<p xml:id=\"p23\">Lastly, That, upon his solemn oath to observe all the above\narticles, the said man-mountain shall have a daily allowance of\nmeat and drink sufficient for the support of <choice>\nwith free access to our royal person, and other marks of our\n<choice>\n\nOne Document Does it all (\"ODD\") is a literate programming language for XML schemas.\n\nIn literate-programming style, ODD documents combine human-readable documentation and machine-readable models using the Documentation Elements module of the Text Encoding Initiative. Tools generate localised and internationalised HTML, ePub, or PDF human-readable output and DTDs, W3C XML Schema, Relax NG Compact Syntax, or Relax NG XML Syntax machine-readable output.\n\nThe Roma web application is built around the ODD format and can use it to generate schemas in DTD, W3C XML Schema, Relax NG Compact Syntax, or Relax NG XML Syntax formats, as used by many XML validation tools and services.\n\nODD is the format used internally by the Text Encoding Initiative for their eponymous technical standard. Although ODD files generally describe the difference between a customized XML format and the full TEI model, ODD also can be used to describe XML formats that are entirely separate from the TEI. One example of this is the W3C's Internationalization Tag Set which uses the ODD format to generate schemas and document its vocabulary.\n\nTEI customizations are specializations of the TEI XML specification for use in particular fields or by specific communities.\n\n\nCustomization in the TEI is done through the ODD mechanism mentioned above. In truth since its P5 version, all so-called 'TEI Conformant' uses of the TEI Guidelines are based on a TEI customization documented in a TEI ODD file. Even when users choose one of the off-the-shelf pre-generated schemas to validate against, these have been created from freely available customization files.\n\nThe format is used by many projects worldwide. Practically all projects are associated with one or more universities. Some well-known projects that encode texts using TEI include:\n\nPrior to the creation of TEI, humanities scholars had no common standards for encoding electronic texts in a manner which would serve their academic goals (Hockey 1993, p. 41). In 1987, a group of scholars representing fields in humanities, linguistics, and computing convened at Vassar College to put forth a set of guidelines known as the “Poughkeepsie Principles”. These guidelines directed the development of the first TEI standard, \"P1\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1343127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1343127", "title": "The Longest Day (book)", "text": "The Longest Day (book)\n\nThe Longest Day is a book by Cornelius Ryan published in 1959, telling the story of D-Day, the first day of the World War II invasion of Normandy. It includes details of Operation Deadstick, the \"coup de main\" operation by gliderborne troops to capture both Pegasus Bridge and Horsa Bridge before the main assault on the Normandy beaches. It sold tens of millions of copies in eighteen different languages.\n\nThe book is not a dry military history, but rather a story about people, and reads at times like a novel. It is based on interviews with a cross-section of participants, including U.S., Canadian, British, French and German officers and civilians.\n\nThe book begins and ends in the village of La Roche-Guyon. The book refers to the village as being the most occupied village in occupied France and states that for each of the 543 inhabitants of La Roche-Guyon there were more than 3 German soldiers in the village and surrounding area. Field Marshal Erwin Rommel commander-in-chief of Army Group B had his headquarters in the castle of the village which was the seat of the Duc de La Rochefoucauld.\n\nRyan's book is divided into three parts: the first part is titled The Wait, the second part is named The Night and the third part is named The Day. The book includes a section on the casualties of D-Day and also lists the contributors including their service details on the day of the invasion and their occupations at the time the book was first published.\n\nResearchers spent almost three years locating survivors of D-Day and over 3000 interviews were undertaken in the United States, Canada, Great Britain, France and Germany. 383 accounts of D Day were used in the text of the book.\n\nSenior Allied officers who assisted the author included General Maxwell D. Taylor, Lieutenant General James M. Gavin, Lieutenant General Sir Frederick E. Morgan and General Sir Richard Nelson Gale. German officers who assisted with the book included Generaloberst Franz Halder, Hauptmann Hellmuth Lang and General der Infanterie Günther Blumentritt. The author also used Allied and German post action reports, War diaries, histories and official records.\n\nOn 6 June 1965, the author published an article \"More of The Longest Day\" in \"Reader's Digest\" as a supplement.\n\nCornelius Ryan dedicated his book for all the men of D-Day.\n\nThe book takes its name from a comment made by Erwin Rommel to his aide Hauptmann Helmuth Lang on 22 April 1944: \"...the first 24 hours of the invasion will be decisive...the fate of Germany depends on the outcome...for the Allies, as well as Germany, it will be the longest day.\"\n\n\"The Longest Day\" is also the name of a 1962 film based on the book, featuring many star actors.\n"}
{"id": "33607291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33607291", "title": "Trace erasure principle", "text": "Trace erasure principle\n\nThe Trace Erasure Principle is a stipulation proposed by Noam Chomsky as part of the Generative-Transformational Grammar. Under the Trace Erasure Principle, traces of an noun phrase (NP) can be replaced only by a designated morpheme and not by an arbitrary NP.\n\nThe following is an example of this Principle:\n\ncan be transformed into:\n\nand this Principle remains fulfilled.\n\nBoth sentences hold the same meaning, because we have designated \"There\" to replace \"a person\" —both terms are mutually linked—, and the meaning remains.\n\nA case where this principle is not fulfilled can be the following:\n\ntransformed into:\n\nObviously, the meaning of the latter is radically different from that of the first. We have replaced \"Mario\" with \"Maria\", and their meaning is not linked. We have arbitrarily chosen \"Mario\" to replace \"Maria\".\n\nBut the following phrase fulfills the Principle:\n\nIn this case, \"who\" identifies with \"Maria\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1069279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1069279", "title": "Varvara Stepanova", "text": "Varvara Stepanova\n\nVarvara Fyodorovna Stepanova (; – May 20, 1958) was a Russian artist associated with the Constructivist movement.\n\nVarvara Stepanova who was born in Kaunas (in modern-day Lithuania) came from peasant origins but was able to get an education at Kazan Art School, Kazan. There she met her later husband and collaborator Alexander Rodchenko. In the years before the Russian Revolution of 1917 they leased an apartment in Moscow, owned by Wassily Kandinsky. These artists became some of the main figures in the Russian avant-garde. The new abstract art in Russia which began around 1915 was a culmination of influences from Cubism, Italian Futurism and traditional peasant art. She designed Cubo-Futurist work for several artists' books, and studied under Jean Metzinger at Académie de La Palette, an art academy where the painters André Dunoyer de Segonzac and Henri Le Fauconnier also taught.\n\nIn the years following the revolution, Stepanova involved herself in poetry, philosophy, painting, graphic art, stage scenery construction, and textile and clothing designs. She contributed work to the Fifth State Exhibition and the Tenth State Exhibition, both in 1919. \n\nIn 1920 it came to a division between painters like Kasimir Malevich who continued to paint with the idea that art was a spiritual activity, and those who believed that they must work directly for the revolutionary development of the society. In 1921, together with Aleksei Gan, Rodchenko and Stepanova formed the first \"Working Group of Constructivists\", which rejected fine art in favor of graphic design, photography, posters, and political propaganda. Also in 1921, Stepanova declared in her text for the exhibition \"5x5=25\", held in Moscow:\n\nThe term 'Constructivist' was by then being used by the artists themselves to describe the direction their work was taking. The theatre was another area where artists were able to communicate new artistic and social ideas. Stepanova designed the sets for \"The Death of Tarelkin\" in 1922.\n\nIn 1921, Stepanova moved almost exclusively into the realm of production, in which she felt her designs could achieve their broadest impact in aiding the development of the Soviet society. Russian Constructivist clothing represented the destabilization of the oppressive, elite aesthetics of the past and, instead, reflected utilitarian functionality and production. Gender and class distinctions gave way to functional, geometric clothing. In line with this objective, Stepanova sought to free the body in her designs, emphasizing clothing’s functional rather than decorative qualities. Stepanova deeply believed clothing must be looked at in action. Unlike the aristocratic clothing that she felt sacrificed physical freedom for aesthetics, Stepanova dedicated herself to designing clothing for particular fields and occupational settings in such a way that the object’s construction evinced its function. In addition, she sought to develop expedient means of clothing production through simple designs and strategic, economic use of fabrics. \nStepanova, thus, identified clothing as occupying two groups: \"prodezodezhda\" and \"sportodezhda\". Within these categories, she attended to logical, efficient production and construction of the garments. However, war-induced poverty placed economic restrictions on the Russian Constructivists’ industrial fervor, and their direct engagement with production was never fully realized. Thus, most of her designs were not mass-produced and circulated. \nThe first, \"prodezodezhda\", or production/working clothing in basic styles, included theater costumes as well as professional and industrial garments. In the early 1920s, Stepanova entered the clothing industry through her costume designs in theater, in which she translated her artistic affinity for geometric shapes into functional, emblematic clothing. Made of dark blue and grey material, the graphic costumes allowed actors to maximize the appearance of their movements, exaggerating them for the stage and transforming the body into a dynamic composition of geometric shapes and lines.\n\nWithin this category, Stepanova began designing \"spetsodezhda\", or clothing specialized for a specific occupation. In doing so, she designed clothing for men and women in both industrial and professional capacities with meticulous consideration of seaming, pockets, and buttons to ensure each aspect of the costume maintained a functional intention. Regardless of the occupational context, her working clothing carried a distinctive geometric and linear edge, rendering the body into a graphic composition and boxy, androgynous form.\n\nThe second category, \"sportodezhda\", or sports costumes, also presented bold lines, large forms, and contrasting colors to enable and emphasize the body’s movements and allow spectators to easily distinguish one team from the other. Stepanova even rendered the team’s emblem into a graphic design. The sports arena offered a context for Stepanova to realize an idealized bodily neutralization, and her uniforms were often unisex with pants and a belted tunic that obscured the human form.\n\nStepanova carried out her ideal of engaging with industrial production in the following year when she, with Lyubov Popova, became designer of textiles at the Tsindel (the First State Textile Factory) near Moscow, and in 1924 became professor of textile design at the Vkhutemas (Higher Technical Artistic Studios) while continuing typography, book design and contributing to the magazine LEF. As a constructivist, Stepanova not only transposed bold graphic designs onto her fabrics, but also focused heavily on their production. Stepanova only worked a little over a year at The First Textile Printing Factory, but she designed more than 150 fabric designs in 1924. Although she was inspired to develop new types of fabric, the current technology restricted her to printed patterns on monotone surfaces. By her own artistic choice, she also limited her color palette to one or two dyes. Although she only used triangles, circles, squares, and lines, Stepanova superimposed these geometric forms onto one another to create a dynamic, multi-dimensional design.\n\nOn October 22, 2018, Stepanova was honoured with a Google Doodle posthumously on her 124th birthday.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50819188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50819188", "title": "White Beech: The Rainforest Years", "text": "White Beech: The Rainforest Years\n\nWhite Beech: The Rainforest Years is a book describing efforts of regeneration of rainforest written by Germaine Greer. It was first published in 2013 by Bloomsbury and reprinted several times.\n\nGermine Greer was a successful writer by 2001 when she decided to invest all her earnings to purchase 60 hectares of over used land for a price of 268,000 pounds in the midst of rainforest in Queensland, Australia. It was a part of Gondwana forest which was logged during 19th century and converted as a banana farm during 20th century. She left the place to itself so that the rainforest would regenerate and by 2013 her experiment is successful where a part of the overused land regenerated as rainforest.\n\nThe book is described as \"a quasi-religious epic out of a part of her remarkable life when she decided to restore a small, wrecked rainforest in Australia, her homeland. The tone is apocalyptic, themes existential and critical\" by \"The Independent\". The author received standing ovation on several occasions during her book introductory tour in Australia. The writer herself declared in the prologue of the book that the story of this book is an extraordinary stroke of luck. \"The New York Times\" dubs it as \"an untidy and mostly lackluster book, sad to say, one that buries her rhetorical gifts under several inches of mulch\" but at the same time lauds it as one of the best love stories in book format. \"The Australian\" describes it as an \"encyclopedic book - taking in botany, history and humility - it is ultimately a reflection on the only significant question: how we live on earth\".\n"}
{"id": "19001558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19001558", "title": "William F. Lynch", "text": "William F. Lynch\n\nCaptain William Francis Lynch (1 April 1801 – 17 October 1865), was a naval officer who served first in the United States Navy and later in the Confederate States Navy.\n\nWilliam F. Lynch was born in Virginia. On 2 June 1828, one month after his promotion to lieutenant, Lynch was married in New Haven, Connecticut, to Virginia Shaw, the youngest daughter of a senior navy officer and sister-in-law of another. They had two children, but separated in the 1840s and divorced in 1850s.\n\nHe was appointed a midshipman 26 January 1819, and first saw service in USS \"Congress\" and next in U.S. schooner \"Shark\" under Lieutenant Matthew C. Perry. Subsequent service included duty with Commodore David Porter's \"Mosquito Squadron\" in the West Indies and in the Mediterranean.\n\nLynch had his first command, the \"Poinsett\", from 3 March to 30 December 1839. The ship sailed on behalf of the United States Naval Hydrographic Office. In 1847, he proceeded to the Jordan River, transporting overland, by camels, a copper and a galvanized iron boat. A total of 16 men were a part of the trip, including John Y. Mason. Each boat was \"assembled\" and then placed on a carriage. His expedition ended with the exploration of the River Jordan and the Dead Sea.\n\nUsing the triangulation method, Lynch's expedition was the first to determine that the Dead Sea was below sea level, something that the scientific community had inferred but not previously determined conclusively, though several other expeditions by Europeans had attempted to do so. The American expedition's measurement showed the Dead Sea to be 1312.7 ft. (400 metres) below sea level.\n\nHe published his travels in 1849, \"Narrative of the United States' Expedition to the River Jordan and the Dead Sea\".\n\nIn 1849 he was commissioned commander and in 1850 was promoted to captain. In 1852, he requested permission to explore the interior of Africa for purposes of possible colonization. In his exploration in west central Africa, he caught a fever, and was forced to return to the United States. Lynch believed that explorers who \"remove the obstruction to Commerce, Civilization and Christianity will become the benefactors of mankind.\"\n\nAfter Virginia seceded from the United States on 17 April 17, 1861, he resigned from the United States Navy on 21 April. Lynch was initially appointed captain in the Virginia Navy and when Virginia joined the Confederate States of America and merged its military, he became a captain in the Confederate States Navy on 10 June 1861. He commanded naval batteries at Aquia Creek, Virginia, during their shelling by Union gunboats in May 1861; was in charge of gunboats and the defense of Roanoke Island, North Carolina in February 1862; and led Confederate naval forces at Vicksburg, Mississippi from March to October 1862. He was also assigned to the Department of the Navy offices as the Chief of the Bureau of Orders and Details during 1862.\n\nLater in command of ships in North Carolina waters, he commanded southern naval forces during the Union attack on Fort Fisher, in December 1864 and January 1865.\n\nAfter the defeat of the Confederacy, he was paroled 3 May 1865 in Richmond, Virginia. He died in Baltimore, Maryland, on 17 October of the same year.\n\nThe USS Lynch (T-AGOR-7) was named after Lynch.\n\n\n2. Bain, David Haward (2011). Bitter Waters. New York, NY: The Overlook Press. p. 384. . An account of Lynch's expedition to the Jordan River and the Dead Sea.\n\n An account of Lynch's expedition to the Jordan River and the Dead Sea.\n\nClark, Carol Lea. \"Clash of Eagles: America's Forgotten Expedition to Ottoman Palestine\", 2012. Lyons Press (Guilford, Conn.) . Lt. William Francis Lynch commanded America's first military foray into the Middle East for the purpose of exploring the Jordan River and the Dead Sea. \n"}
{"id": "7233238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7233238", "title": "Women Fully Clothed", "text": "Women Fully Clothed\n\nWomen Fully Clothed is a Canadian live sketch comedy , with a cast of four women, touring throughout the world.\n\n\nThe show was the brainchild of Robin Duke in 2003, and was originally commissioned for a Second City fundraiser.\n\nMost shows last for 90 minutes (although they can be as short as 20, or as long as 120). Sketches focus on issues that the everyday woman faces with a \"comedic\" twist.\n\nDisclaimers are made by each cast member during the show to emphasize that the show is not about male-bashing. Men are encouraged to come to the show as well, although a majority of their audiences is women.\n\nWomen Fully Clothed was featured in the 2006 Just for Laughs comedy festival in Montreal, Quebec. They were also nominated for Best Sketch Troupe at the 6th Annual Canadian Comedy Awards in 2005. Eugene Levy calls them \"the five funniest women in Canada.\" \n\nThe show originally featured five women, but Debra McGrath (\"Getting Along Famously\") left the group for unknown reasons in the first half of 2009.\n\nThe show is directed by John Hemphill.\n\n"}
{"id": "11136841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11136841", "title": "Xaltocan", "text": "Xaltocan\n\nXaltocan was a pre-Columbian city-state and island in the Valley of Mexico, located in the center of Lake Xaltocan, part of an interconnected shallow lake system which included Lake Texcoco, this place is inside the San Miguel Jaltocan, in Nextlapan. The site was originally settled by the Otomi people, but following a war in the late fourteenth century where the Otomi were defeated by an alliance of Tepanecs and Mexica the Otomi were driven off the island and relocated to Otumba, Metztitlan and Tlaxcala. The island of Xaltocan was then resettled by Nahuatl speakers. The name can mean either of two things in the Nahuatl language: either 'sandy ground of spiders' or 'where sand sowing'.\n\nXaltocan is known to have been inhabited in the Postclassic period. Ceramics and other archaeological remains dating to this period have been recovered in excavations at the site. It is thought to have been a local center of power capable of exacting tribute from other city-states in the area.\n\nThe founding of Xaltocan is described in the mytho-historical documents, the \"Historia Tolteca-Chichimeca\" and \"Anales de Cuauhtitlan\". According to the \"Anales\" the Xaltocameca (people of Xaltocan) were among the Chichimec tribes that left the mythical place of origin, Aztlán, under a leader named \"Quauhtliztac\" (\"White Eagle\"). The \"Historia\" also identifies the Xaltocameca as belong to the Otomi ethnic group. In this document, written by Ixtlilxochitl, the first leader of the Xaltocameca is named as \"Iztacquauhtli\", which also means \"White Eagle\" in Nahuatl.\n\nIn the 13th century Xaltocan were involved in a prolonged war with the Nahua city-state of Cuauhtitlan. Xaltocan was initially the strongest but around 1395 the ruler of Cuauhtitlan, Xaltemoctzin, allied himself with Tezozomoc of Azcapotzalco and his subjects the Mexica of Tenochtitlan and finally managed to conquer Xaltocan. The Otomi inhabitants fled north to the Otomian city-state of Metztitlan and to Tlaxcala, while others were allowed to resettle on the lands of Texcoco in the place that was henceforth called Otumba - \"Place of the Otomies\".\n\nDuring the next 100 years the site was resettled by Nahua peoples. After the Aztec Triple Alliance defeated the Tepanecs of Azcapotzalco, Xaltocan became an Aztec subject city and paid tribute to Tenochtitlan, mainly in the form of woven blankets.\n\nIn 1521 during the Spanish conquest of Mexico the army of Hernán Cortés razed Xaltocan and burned it to the ground.\n\n"}
{"id": "31571049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31571049", "title": "Xochimilco (pre-Columbian city)", "text": "Xochimilco (pre-Columbian city)\n\nXochimilco was the most important city of the Xochimilca people, one of the Nahua tribes that migrated to the Mesoamerica region. The city was founded around 900 AD. It grew to become an important city in the Valley of Mexico, until in 1430, the Mexica of Tenochtitlan succeeded in conquering the city.\n\nThe name “Xochimilco” comes from Nahuatl and means “flower field.” This referred to the many flowers and other crops that were grown here on chinampas since the pre-Hispanic period.\n\nThe first human presence in the area was of hunter gatherers, who eventually settled into farming communities. The first settlements in the Xochimilco area were associated with the Cuicuilco, Copilco and Tlatilco settlements during the Classic period. The Xochimilca people, considered to be one of the seven Nahua tribes that migrated into the Valley of Mexico, first settled around 900 CD in Cuahilama, near what is now Santa Cruz Acalpixca. They worshipped sixteen deities, with Chantico, goddess of the hearth and Cihuacoatl, an earth goddess and Amimitl, god of chinampas the most important.\n\nThe Xochimilcas were farmers and founded their first dominion under a leader named Acatonallo. He is credited for inventing the chinampa system of agriculture in order to increase production. These chinampas eventually became the main producer with crops such as corn, beans, chili peppers, squash and more. The city of Xochimilco was founded in 919. Over time, it grew and began to dominate other areas on the south side of the lakes such as Mixquic, Tláhuac, Culhuacan and even parts of what is now the State of Morelos. Xochimilco had one woman ruler, which did not happen anywhere else in Mesoamerica in the pre-Hispanic period. She is credited with adding a number of distinctive dishes to the area’s cuisine, with inclusions such as necuatolli, chileatolli (atole with chili pepper), esquites and tlapiques.\n\nIn 1352, then emperor Caxtoltzin moved the city from the mainland to the island of Tlilan. In this respect it was like another island city in the area, Tenochtitlan. Although no longer an island, the city center is still in the same spot. In 1376, Tenochtitlan attacked Xochimilco, forcing the city to appeal to Azcapotzalco for help. The conquest was unsuccessful, but Xochimilco was then forced to pay tribute to Azcapotzalco. Tenochtitlan succeeded in conquering Xochimilco in 1430, while it was ruled by Tzalpoyotzin. Shortly thereafter, Aztec emperor Itzcoatl built the causeway or calzada that would connect the two cities over the lake. During the reign of Moctezuma Ilhuicamina, the Xochimilcas contributed materials and manpower to construct a temple to Huitzilopochtli. They also participated in the further conquests of the Aztec Empire such as in Cuauhnáhuac (Cuernavaca), Xalisco and the Metztitlán and Oaxaca valleys. For their service, Ahuizotl, granted the Xochimilcas autonomy in their lands, and the two cities coexisted peacefully. Aztec emperors would pass by here on royal barges on their way to Chalco/Xico, then an island in Lake Chalco.\n\nAztec emperor Moctezuma Xocoyotzin imposed a new governor, Omácatl, onto Xochimilco due to the arrival of the Spanish, but this governor was forced to return to Tenochtitlan, when the emperor was taken prisoner. He was then succeeded by Macuilxochitecuhtli, but eighty days later he too went to Tenochtitlan to fight the Spanish alongside Cuitláhuac. He was followed by Apochquiyautzin, who remained loyal to Tenochtitlan.\n\nFor this reason, Hernán Cortés decided to send armies to subdue Xochimilco before taking Tenochtitlan. This occurred in 1521. During the battle, Cortés was almost killed when he fell off his horse, but he was saved by a soldier named Cristóbal de Olea.\n\nThe battle was fierce and left few Xochimilca warriors alive. According to legend, it was after this battle that Cuauhtémoc came to Xochimilco and planted a juniper tree in the San Juan neighborhood to commemorate the event.\n\nPre-Hispanic Xochimilco was an island connected to the mainland by three causeways. One of these still exists in the form of Avenida Guadalupe I.Ramirez, one of the city’s main streets. This causeway led to the main ceremonial center of the town, which was called the Quilaztli. The Spanish destroyed the Quilaztli during the Conquest, and replaced it with the San Bernardino de Siena Church, which would become the social and political center of the colonial city. It became a settlement of Spanish, criollos and mestizos, with the indigenous living in rural communities outside of the city proper.\n\nAfter the Conquest, Apochquiyauhtzin, the last lord of Xochimilco, was baptized with the name of Luís Cortés Cerón de Alvarado in 1522 and he was allowed to continue governing under the Spanish. Evangelization was undertaken here by Martín de Valencia with a number of others who are known as the first twelve Franciscans in Mexico. Their monastery was built between 1534 and 1579, along with many chapels and churches in the Xochimilco area, a hospital in Tlacoapa and a school. Xochimilco was made an encomienda of Pedro de Alvarado in 1521 and remained such until 1541.\n\n"}
