{"id": "25871294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25871294", "title": "Armenian churches of Tbilisi", "text": "Armenian churches of Tbilisi\n\nThis is the list of Armenian churches in Tbilisi, the capital of Georgia, which was the center of the cultural life of Eastern Armenians until the early 20th century.:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33062059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33062059", "title": "Babaji Singh", "text": "Babaji Singh\n\nBabaji Singh Khalsa () (August 15, 1947 – November 19, 2006) was a Mexican Sikh who is credited for translating Guru Granth Sahib, the holy text of the Sikhs into Spanish. \nHe was born in Mexico City; raised in a Catholic family, he finished his studies in a Jesuit University in Mexico, Universidad Iberoamericana. After finishing college, he left for Alaska and then United States of America. Soon, after converting to Sikhism, he returned to Mexico City, Mexico and became a Sikh preacher. He translated the Guru Granth Sahib into Spanish,which took him 30 years, with help from the English translation of the scripture by Gopal Singh. The translation was presented by his widow, Guru Amrit Kaur on October 2008, in Nanded, during the Tercentenary Celebrations of the Guru Gaddi of Guru Granth Sahib.\n\n"}
{"id": "22285012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22285012", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Bangladesh", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Bangladesh\n\nThe origins of the Bahá'í Faith in Bangladesh begin previous to its independence, when it was part of British Raj. The roots of the Bahá'í Faith in the region go back to the first days of the Bábí religion in 1844. During Bahá'u'lláh's lifetime, as founder of the religion, he encouraged some of his followers to move to India. It may have been Jamál Effendi who was first sent and stopped in Dhaka more than once. The first Bahá'ís in the area that would later become Bangladesh was when a Bengali group from Chittagong accepted the religion while in Burma. By 1950 there were enough members of the religion to elect Local Spiritual Assemblies in Chittagong and Dacca. The community has contributed to the progress of the nation of Bangladesh individually and collectively and in 2005 the World Christian Encyclopedia estimated the Bahá'í population of Bangladesh about 10600.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Bangladesh begins previous to its independence when it was part of British Raj. The roots of the Bahá'í Faith in the region go back to the first days of the Bábí religion in 1844. Four Babis are known from India in this earliest period; it is not known from what sub-region they came from, but at least some of them were known as Sufis and some were termed Sayyid. The first was Shaykh Sa'id Hindi, one of the Letters of the Living, who was from somewhere in what was then India. Four other Indians were listed among the 318 Bábís who fought at the Battle of Fort Tabarsi.\n\nDuring Bahá'u'lláh's lifetime, as founder of the religion, he encouraged some of his followers to move to India. In 1878, a Bahá'í moved through Chittagong and Dhaka, passing through on his way to Burma from Calcutta. This may have been Jamál Effendi, an early Bahá'í who travelled there. Regardless it is clear that Effendi undertook a second trip to south-east Asia in about 1884-5. Effendi was asked to return to the region by Bahá'u'lláh and this time accompanied by Sayyid Mustafá. They set off for India and eventually stopped in Dhaka, the capital of Bangladesh where they met some people including a professor of Arabic at Dhaka College. Much later, around 1891, Jamál Effendi was confused with a terrorist and reported on by British agents among the Indian population, as confirmed by records found in the Indian government's national archives. Following the passing of Bahá'u'lláh, as the leadership of the religion fell to 'Abdu'l-Bahá, he in turn sent further representatives in his stead – both Persian and American.\n\nAs early as 1910 the national community in India/Burma was urged to visibly distinguish itself from Islam by Bahá'í institutions of America. Nationally coordinated activities began and reached a peak in December 1920, with the first All-India Bahá'í Convention, held in Bombay for three days. Representatives from India's major religious communities were present as well as Bahá'í delegates from throughout the country.\n\nIn 1923, still as part of India, a regional National Spiritual Assembly was formed for India and Burma which then included the area now part of Bangladesh as well as Pakistan. However the first Bahá'ís in the area that would later become Bangladesh was when a Bengali group from Chittagong accepted the religion while they were in Burma. In 1937, John Esslemont's \"Bahá'u'lláh and the New Era\" was translated and published in Bengali (Baha'u'llah o nab zug) in Chittagong under the authority of the National Spiritual Assembly of India and Burma.\n\nIn 1941, Enoch Olinga, later a prominent Bahá'í, was stationed in what was then East Pakistan as a member of the British military before he left the military and became a member of the religion. By 1950 there were enough members of the religion to begin setting up administrative bodies. These were Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assemblies and they were elected in Chittagong and Dacca. With independence as part of Pakistan in 1958, East and West Pakistan elected a separate national assembly from India. In 1959 Muhammad Mustafa travelled to Liberia and was commissioned to address some Muslim concerns about the Bahá'í Faith. This was ultimately published as \"Baha'u'llah: The Great Announcement of the Qur'an\" through the Bangladesh Bahá'í Publishing Trust. In 1960 there was a Teaching Conference of East Pakistan, at Dhaka. By 1963 there was an additional local assembly in Mymensingh and smaller groups between 1 and 9 adults in Jamalpur and Mirpur. Following the independence of Bangladesh in 1971, the national assembly of Bangladesh was also separately elected in 1971. 10 years later the national convention had 61 delegates. In 1974 Rúhíyyih Khanum visited the country, even to meeting with President Mohammad Ullah. In 1984 \"The Baha'i Fund: A Time for Sacrifice\" was published by the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Bangladesh.\n\nIn 1996 the Universal House of Justice commented:\n\n\"The Bahá'í community of Bangladesh, flourishing in the midst of a Muslim society, is a source of joy to the entire Bahá'í world. In recent years and with astonishing rapidity, that community began to achieve extraordinary success in the teaching field, and throughout the Three Year Plan it has sustained consistently large-scale expansion. Its institutions have demonstrated their capacity to mobilize the human resources at their disposal, and those who have responded to the call for action have sacrificially and with the utmost devotion spread the Divine Teachings among the Muslim, Hindu and tribal populations of that country. The purity of their motives and the sincerity of their efforts to address the needs of society have won them recognition from government officials in the highest circles. Their exertions to promote love and unity among the majority Muslim and minority Hindu populations are bearing increasing fruit, a striking testimony to the potency of Bahá'u'lláh's Revelation.\"\nIn Bangladesh the Bahá'ís have had the right to hold their public meetings, establish academic centres, teach their faith, and elect their administrative councils. However the government of Bangladesh voted against the United Nations resolution \"Situation of Human Rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran\" on 19 December 2001 raised in response to the Persecution of Bahá'ís in Iran. Regardless, Bahá'ís in Bangladesh have been able to co-ordinate and act in groups. About 150 gathered for a summer school in 1977 and about 300 attended the winter school held February 1978. Zena Sorabjee of the Bahá'í International Community, shared a platform with Pope John Paul II during his visit to India in 1999 and the meeting was aired through satellite television. It is reported that Bahá'ís in a number of countries, including Bangladesh, viewed the broadcast. In 2008 about 30 out of 200 Bahá'ís managed to get passports and visas and travel from Bangladesh to a regional conference called for by the Universal House of Justice in Kolkata, India, although many more of their fellow believers weren't able to make the trip. The Bahá'ís went in groups to request their travel documents, with many of them waiting up to three days even to reach the door. In the end, most were turned away without the visa.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. Worldwide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognised Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. For the International Year of the Child Bangladesh Bahá'ís established tutorial schools in three villages. By 1987, the number of officially recognised development projects had increased to 1482. The Bahá'ís in Bangladesh work to promote their interests and contributions to Bangladesh. Even early on there were village level schools run by the local assembly in the Jessore area. In 1981 the second Bangladesh National Baha'i Women's Conference took place attracting Bahá'í women from Bangladesh, India, Iran, Malaysia and Italy. In 1995 three national newspapers published articles on a public meeting sponsored by the local spiritual assembly of Khulna to mark the founding of the United Nations. Tents on the grounds of the Bahá'í Center there were filled with 50 Bahá'ís and 200 guests who listened to speeches and then enjoyed the performance of songs written by Bahá'í youth on the theme of unity and amity among the nations and races of the earth. Some of the students of the New Era Development Institute, an educational NGO in India run by the Bahá'ís, have come from the Bangladesh Bahá'í community in 1997. In 1988 Bahá'í doctors setup free treatment camps. In addition to work in groups, some individuals have become well known for their contributions to Bangladesh society. Bahá'í Samarendra Nath Goswami, is well known in Bangladesh as Secretary General of the Bangladesh Minority Lawyers Association and senior advocate of Bangladesh Supreme Court and contributed to founding a law journal and two law schools. In 1994, he edited \"The Principles of Bahá'í Personal Law\" which was published by the Bangladesh Law Times. In the early 1990s, Baha'i law was included in the law curriculum of Dhaka University. Payam Akhavan, Bahá'í and a renowned human rights lawyer represented Sheikh Hasina (a once and again Prime Minister of Bangladesh).\n\nThe Bahá'ís of Bangladesh have participated in various efforts affecting society in Bangladesh. Representatives of the Bahá'ís of Bangladesh were among those present for a 19 December 2003 conference entitled \"Education: The Right of Every Girl and Boy,\" which was organised by the Bahá'í International Community with the support of the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) and the government of Bangladesh among other institutions. Representatives of the Bahá'í International Community were among the speakers at the \"Conference on Interfaith Cooperation for Peace,\" which was held on 22 June 2005 with the government of Bangladesh among the co-sponsors. In September 2002, a slide show on preventing the spread of Dengue fever was presented at the National Bahá'í Center in Shantinagar. December 2007, the Centre for Advance Research in Humanities of Dhaka University organised a seminar on \"The Baha'i Faith and World Peace\" at the lecture theatre of the university presided over by Prof Kazi Nazrul Islam,(not the famous Bengali individual of the same name who died in 1977) Director of the centre. Mazhgan Bahar, Professor of English Department of American International University-Bangladesh, presented the keynote paper at the seminar, while Prof Dr Rawshan Ara of Philosophy Department, Prof Shahid Hussain, Secretary General of International Association for Religious Freedom and Prof Jahangir Alam of the world religion Department, among others, were present.\n\nIt is not known how many organised communities of Bahá'ís there are in Bangladesh. In 2005 the World Christian Encyclopedia estimated the Bahá'í population of Bangladesh at about 10600. There are reports of many conversions from November 1988 to September 1989 including many Munda and Arakan people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3209371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3209371", "title": "Bahá'í marriage", "text": "Bahá'í marriage\n\nBahá'í marriage is union of a man and a woman. Its purpose is mainly spiritual and is to foster harmony, fellowship and unity between the two partners. The Bahá'í teachings on marriage call it a \"fortress for well-being and salvation\" and place marriage and the family as the foundation of the structure of human society.\n\nThe Bahá'í teachings on marriage see it as an eternal bond that survives past the lives of the partners in the physical life, and into the spiritual worlds. Thus the teachings stress that during courting the partners must take the utmost care to become acquainted with each other's character. Furthermore, the husband and wife should be united not only physically, but also spiritually, so that they can improve the spiritual life of each other, and that they can spiritually advance towards God.\n\nThe parents cannot interfere with the selection of the person their child wants to get married to, but marriage has been conditioned, once the couple’s wish is known, upon the permission of their parents. The purpose of this law is to foster unity between the two families, since the Bahá'í teachings see marriage and the family as the foundation of the structure and society, and having disunity between two families is not conducive to that. The consent of all parents is needed even if one of the partners is not a Bahá'í.\n\nBahá'ís see this aspect of Bahá'í marriage as combining marriages practices from the East and West; in the East arranged marriage is common, and in the west marriages sometimes go forward with no input from the parents. The Bahá'í marriage gives full freedom of the individuals to select their partner, but places certain gratitude and respect to the parents.\n\nThe time between the official public announcement of the marriage and the wedding ceremony should not exceed 95 days. The 95-day period of engagement is currently applicable only to Persian\nbelievers.\n\nThe Bahá'í marriage ceremony is done differently in each culture. The only compulsory part of the wedding is the reading of the wedding vows prescribed by Bahá'u'lláh which both the groom and the bride recite:\n\nin the presence of two witnesses to be recorded through a Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly. Legal recognition depends on the civil laws of the country.\n\nMost Bahá'í marriage ceremonies consist of the reading of Bahá'í writings, prayers and music followed by a talk about the spiritual nature of Bahá'í marriage, and then the reading of the vows.\n\nThere are a number of laws that concern Bahá'í marriage\n\n\nFollowing the natural and appropriate extension of the union of marriage, children, whether adopted or biological, should be raised in this same spiritual atmosphere. Formal duties exist between parents and children (of education and obedience, training and respect.) Second to discovering God for oneself is respect for one's parents. Reversing the degradation of women and children is a subject of much attention in the Bahá'í Faith.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50448196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50448196", "title": "Canut of Bon", "text": "Canut of Bon\n\nJohn (Baptist) Canut of Bon Gil (Valencia, September 30, 1846 - Santiago, November 9, 1896) was a Spanish preacher, best known for spreading his Protestant faith and founding evangelical churches in Chile during the nineteenth century.\n\nAt age 18, John Canut of Bon entered the Society of Jesus in Balaguer, Leida. It is likely that he was of low socioeconomic status and was in training to become a tailor. After two years of training, he declared his religious vows and was sent to the Jesuit College of Tortosa by the tailor shop he was working at.\n\nThe political situation in Spain at the time (Carlist Wars between clergy and laity) made it difficult for Canut of Bon to stay in the country, so he was reassigned to Argentina where he learned homeopathy. He later moved to Chile and then retired from the Jesuit Order in 1871, not because he lost his Catholic faith, but because he wanted to study. In 1872, he settled in The Andes where he devoted himself to the sale of fabrics and continued to work as a tailor. In August 5 of that year, he married Virginia Aguilar Robles, with whom he had three children.\n\nIn December 1876, he found a copy of the New Testament on a platform of a railway station in Quillota from the Bible Society of Valparaiso. He defined this episode as the first meeting he had with the Gospel.In 1880, he had the opportunity to meet a Presbyterian preacher named Robert MacLean, with whom he became friends. Canut of Bon then went on to become the first Spanish-speaking preacher in Chile.\n\nHis preaching in a country that was mostly Catholic led him to become a sort of outcast amongst from the foreign Presbyterians who feared deportation from Chile for violating the rules contained in the Constitution of 1833, which gave priority to the Official State Church over other religions. Canut of Bon was soon expelled for his new religion.\n\nHe asked for a reinstatement to the Catholic Church in 1884 in Curico. However, his \"Catholic Period\" came to an end in 1888, when he met an American Methodist pastor named William Taylor (1821-1902) who preached in Africa and India between 1856 and 1883. In 1890, Canut of Bon was consecrated as bishop of the Methodist faith. His way of preaching, which was spirited and filled with knowledge, attracted many. However, this also meant that many enemies and his previous clients abandoned him. Despite this, he began to preach full-time, relying on his knowledge in the field of homeopathy to stay in the area. To avoid rejection from the Catholic priests, he enlarged his preaching territory to southern cities and places where the Catholic Church had much less of an influence. For five years, he preached the Gospel and founded churches in Coquimbo, La Serena, Concepcion, Traiguen, Angol, Los Angeles, Victoria, and Temuco.\n\nUnfortunately, in 1896, he had to move to Santiago for health reasons where he died on November 9. His remains rest in the Patio of Dissenters of the General Cemetery of Santiago.\n\nIn the context of secular struggles caused by the non-separation of church and state, his style of street preaching caused him persecution and ridicule, but also a group of followers who decided to call themselves \"Canutos,\" or \"Followers of Canut.\" In the early twentieth century, a writer and anarchist, Jose Santos Gonzalez Verades, described police offers arresting a group of evangelicals preaching and singing their way into prison, proclaiming themselves to be Canutos. Although this term has been extended to all members of evangelical churches, whether of not they are followers of Canut of Bon, on occasion, the term is used to refer to any very religious person who effusively professes his or her religion in public. Some sectors of the evangelical cult reject this nickname and consider it burlesque, but it is accepted by the vast majority of evangelicals.\n\n"}
{"id": "9512732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9512732", "title": "Centennial Park, Arizona", "text": "Centennial Park, Arizona\n\nCentennial Park is a census-designated place (CDP) in Mohave County, Arizona, United States. The population was 1264 at the 2010 census. It is the central location for the Centennial Park group, a fundamentalist Mormon group.\n\nCrozier is located at (36.953806, -112.981325). According to the United States Geological Survey, the CDP has a total area of , all of it land.\n\nAs of the 2010 census, there were 1264 people residing in the CDP: 569 male and 695 female. 781 were 19 years old or younger, 242 were ages 20–34, 153 were between the ages of 35 and 49, 67 were between 50 and 64, and the remaining 21 were aged 65 and above. The median age was 15.0 years.\n\nThe racial makeup of the CDP was 94.6% White, 0.2% Black or African American, 0.2% Asian, 0.1% Native Hawaiian, 2.0% Other, and 2.9% two or more races. 5.1% of the population were Hispanic or Latino of any race.\n\nThere were 207 households in the CDP, 187 family households (90.3%) and 20 non-family households (9.7%), with an average household size of 6.11. Of the family households, 127 were married couples living together, with 20 single father and 40 single mother households, while the non-family households included 17 adults living alone: 5 male and 12 female.\n\nThe CDP contained 225 housing units, of which 207 were occupied and 18 were vacant.\n"}
{"id": "410934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=410934", "title": "Charles Colson", "text": "Charles Colson\n\nCharles Wendell \"Chuck\" Colson (October 16, 1931 – April 21, 2012) served as Special Counsel to President Richard Nixon from 1969 to 1973. Once known as President Nixon's \"hatchet man,\" Colson gained notoriety at the height of the Watergate scandal, for being named as one of the Watergate Seven, and pleaded guilty to obstruction of justice for attempting to defame Pentagon Papers defendant Daniel Ellsberg. In 1974, he served seven months in the federal Maxwell Prison in Alabama as the first member of the Nixon administration to be incarcerated for Watergate-related charges.\n\nColson became an Evangelical Christian in 1973. His mid-life religious conversion sparked a radical life change that led to the founding of his non-profit ministry Prison Fellowship and, three years later, Prison Fellowship International, to a focus on Christian worldview teaching and training around the world. Colson was also a public speaker and the author of more than 30 books. He was the founder and chairman of The Chuck Colson Center for Christian Worldview, which is \"a research, study, and networking center for growing in a Christian worldview\", and includes Colson's daily radio commentary, BreakPoint, heard on more than 1,400 outlets across the United States (and continues to be broadcast with an alternating panel from the Colson Center).\n\nColson was a principal signer of the 1994 \"Evangelicals and Catholics Together\" ecumenical document signed by leading Evangelical Protestants and Roman Catholic leaders in the United States.\n\nColson received 15 honorary doctorates, and in 1993 was awarded the Templeton Prize for Progress in Religion, the world's largest annual award (over US$1 million) in the field of religion, given to a person who \"has made an exceptional contribution to affirming life's spiritual dimension\". He donated this prize to further the work of Prison Fellowship, as he did all his speaking fees and royalties. In 2008, he was awarded the Presidential Citizens Medal by President George W. Bush.\n\nCharles Wendell Colson was born on October 16, 1931, in Boston, Massachusetts, the son of Inez \"Dizzy\" (née Ducrow) and Wendell Ball Colson. He was of Swedish and British descent.\n\nIn his youth Colson had seen the charitable works of his parents. His mother cooked meals for the hungry during the Depression and his father donated his legal services to the United Prison Association of New England. Historian Jonathan Aitken notes \"Wendell's compassion for prisoners flowed from his Christian ethics, which he instilled into his son's upbringing.\" Aitken also notes that \"Mrs. Colson was proud of being a member of the Episcopal Church and even prouder of her acquaintance with its diocesan bishop, Bishop Fisk, who she thought would be a splendid role model for her Charlie.\" Aitken holds that his mother's suggestion to the young Colson \"You ought to be a minister,\" were motivated by \"social rather than religious\" reasons and holds \"she had no believing relationship in Christ, and neither did her husband or her son.\" Noting that \"None of them ever read the Bible\" and holding that \"their extremely rare visits to church were purely nominal\", Aitken concludes \"religious belief had no part to play in the early upbringing of Charles Colson.\"\n\nDuring World War II, Colson organized fund-raising campaigns in his school for the war effort that raised enough money to buy a Jeep for the army.\n\nIn 1948, Colson volunteered in the campaign to re-elect the Governor of Massachusetts, Robert Bradford.\n\nAfter attending Browne & Nichols School in Cambridge in 1949, he earned his AB, with honors, in history from Brown University in 1953, and his J.D., with honors, from George Washington University Law School in 1959. At Brown, he was a member of Beta Theta Pi.\n\nColson's first marriage with Nancy Billings, in 1953, bore three children: Wendell Ball II (born 1954), Christian Billings (1956), and Emily Ann (1958). After some years of separation, the marriage ended in divorce in January 1964. He married Patricia Ann Hughes on April 4, 1964.\n\nColson served in the United States Marine Corps from 1953 to 1955, reaching the rank of Captain. From 1955 to 1956, he was Assistant to the Assistant Secretary of the Navy (Material). He then worked on the successful 1960 campaign of Leverett Saltonstall (U.S. Republican Party for the U.S. Senate), and was his Administrative Assistant from 1956 to 1961. In 1961 Colson founded the law firm of Colson & Morin, which swiftly grew to a Boston and Washington, D.C. presence with the addition of former Securities Exchange Commission chairman Edward Gadsby and former Raytheon Company general counsel Paul Hannah. Colson and Morin shortened the name to Gadsby & Hannah in late 1967. Colson left the firm to join the Richard Nixon administration in January 1969.\n\nIn 1968, Colson served as counsel to Republican presidential candidate Richard Nixon's Key Issues Committee.\n\nOn November 6, 1969, Colson was appointed as Special Counsel to President Nixon.\n\nColson was responsible for inviting influential private special-interest groups into the White House policy-making process and winning their support on specific issues. His office served as the President's political communications liaison with organized labor, veterans, farmers, conservationists, industrial organizations, citizen groups, and almost any organized lobbying group whose objectives were compatible with the administration's. Colson's staff broadened the White House lines of communication with organized constituencies by arranging presidential meetings and sending White House news releases of interest to the groups.\n\nIn addition to his liaison and political duties, Colson's responsibilities included performing special assignments for the president, such as drafting legal briefs on particular issues, reviewing presidential appointments, and suggesting names for White House guest lists. His work also included major lobbying efforts on such issues as construction of an antiballistic missile system, the president's Vietnamization program, and the administration's revenue-sharing proposal.\n\n\"Slate\" magazine writer David Plotz described Colson as \"Richard Nixon's hard man, the 'evil genius' of an evil administration.\"\nColson has written that he was \"valuable to the President ... because I was willing ... to be ruthless in getting things done\". Richard Nixon's White House Chief of Staff H. R. Haldeman described Colson as the president's \"hit man.\"\n\nColson authored the 1971 memo listing Nixon's major political opponents, later known as Nixon's enemies list. A quip that \"Colson would walk over his own grandmother if necessary\" mutated into claims in news stories that Colson had boasted that he would run over his own grandmother to re-elect Nixon. In a February 13, 1973, conversation, Colson told Nixon that he had always had \"a little prejudice.\"\n\nOn May 4, 1970, four students were shot dead at Kent State University in Ohio while protesting the Vietnam War and the incursion into Cambodia. As a show of sympathy for the dead students, Mayor Lindsay ordered all flags at New York City Hall to be flown at half-staff that same day.\n\nA transcription made of a White House tape recording dated May 5, 1971, documents that the planning phase of the Hard Hat Riot took place in the White House Oval Office. Colson is heard successfully instigating several New York State AFL-CIO union leaders into organizing an attack against student protesters in New York. These officials then armed some 200 construction workers down in Lower Manhattan with lengths of steel re-bar which they, along with their hard hats, proceeded to use against about 1,000 high school and college students protesting the Vietnam War and the Kent State shootings. The initial attack was near the intersection of Wall Street and Broad Street, but the riot soon spread to New York City Hall and lasted a little more than two hours. More than 70 people were injured, including four policemen. Six people were arrested.\n\nTwo weeks after the Hard Hat Riot, Colson arranged a White House ceremony honoring the union leader most responsible for the attack, Peter J. Brennan, president of the Building and Construction Trades local for New York City. Brennan was later appointed U.S. Secretary of Labor and served under Presidents Nixon and Gerald Ford.\n\nColson also proposed firebombing the Brookings Institution and stealing politically damaging documents while firefighters put the fire out.\n\nColson's voice, from archives from April 1969, is heard in the 2004 movie \"Going Upriver\" deprecating the anti-war efforts of John Kerry. Colson's orders were to \"destroy the young demagogue before he becomes another Ralph Nader.\" In a phone conversation with Nixon on April 28, 1971, Colson said, \"This fellow Kerry that they had on last week...He turns out to be really quite a phony.\"\n\nColson attended some meetings of Committee for the Re-Election of the President (CRP or CREEP). However, he and the White House Staff \"had come to regard the Committee to Re-elect the President as a rival organisation... those Jackasses over at CREEP\". When Colson had taken charge of the Office of Communications, he was offered but rejected Jeb Magruder as a senior staffer, and Magruder was instead sent over to CRP, as \n\nAt a CRP meeting on March 21, 1971, it was agreed to spend US$250,000 on \"intelligence gathering\" on the Democratic Party. Colson and John Ehrlichman had recruited E. Howard Hunt as a $100-a-day White House consultant, though Hunt never worked directly for Colson, he did several odd jobs for Colson's office prior to working for Egil \"Bud\" Krogh, head of the White House Special Operations Unit (the so-called \"Plumbers\"), which had been organized to stop leaks in the Nixon administration. Hunt teamed with G. Gordon Liddy, and the two headed the Plumbers' attempted burglary of Pentagon Papers-leaker Daniel Ellsberg's psychiatrist's office in Los Angeles in September 1971. The Pentagon Papers were a group of military documents comprising an exhaustive study of the United States' involvement in the Vietnam War. Their publication helped increase opposition to the war. Colson hoped that revelations about Ellsberg could be used to discredit the anti-Vietnam War cause. Colson admitted to leaking information from Ellsberg's confidential FBI file to the press, but denied organizing Hunt's burglary of Ellsberg's office. In his 2005 book, \"The Good Life\", he expressed regret for attempting to cover up this incident.\n\nAlthough not discovered until several years after Nixon had resigned and Colson had finished serving his prison term, transcripts of a tape-recorded June 20, 1972 White House conversation between Nixon and Colson has denials from both men of the White House's involvement in the break-in; Hunt had been off the payroll for three months, Colson asks \"Do they think I'm that dumb?\". Nixon does comment that \"we have got to have lawyers smart enough to have our people de-, delay (unintelligible) avoiding--depositions, of course, uh, are one possibility. We've got--I think it would be a quite the thing for the judge to call in Mitchell and have a deposition in the middle of the campaign, don't you?\" to which Colson responds that he would welcome a deposition because \"I'm not--,\nbecause nobody, everybody's completely out of it.\"\n\nOn March 10, 1973, seventeen months before Nixon's resignation, Colson resigned from the White House to return to the private practice of law, as Senior Partner at the law firm of Colson and Shapiro, Washington, D.C. However, Colson was retained as a special consultant by Nixon for several more months.\n\nOn March 1, 1974, Colson was indicted for conspiring to cover up the Watergate burglaries.\n\nAs Colson was facing arrest, his close friend, Raytheon Company chairman of the board Thomas L. Phillips, gave Colson a copy of \"Mere Christianity\" by C. S. Lewis, which, after reading it, led Colson to become an evangelical Christian. Colson then joined a prayer group led by Douglas Coe and including Democratic Senator Harold Hughes, Republican congressman Al Quie and Democratic congressman Graham B. Purcell, Jr. When news of the conversion emerged much later, several U.S. newspapers, as well as \"Newsweek\", \"The Village Voice\", and \"Time\", ridiculed the conversion, claiming that it was a ploy to reduce his sentence. In his 1975 memoir \"Born Again\", Colson noted that a few writers published sympathetic stories, as in the case of a widely reprinted UPI article, \"From Watergate to Inner Peace.\"\n\nAfter taking the Fifth Amendment on the advice of his lawyers during early testimony, Colson found himself torn between his desire to be truthful and his desire to avoid conviction on charges of which he believed himself innocent. Following prayer and consultation with his fellowship group, Colson approached his lawyers and suggested a plea of guilty to a different criminal charge of which he did consider himself to be culpable.\n\nAfter days of negotiation with Watergate Special Prosecutor Leon Jaworski and Watergate Trial Judge Gerhard Gesell, Colson pleaded guilty to obstruction of justice on the basis of having attempted to defame Ellsberg's character in the build-up to the trial in order to influence the jury against him. Journalist Carl Rowan commented in a column of June 10, 1974 that the guilty plea came \"at a time when the judge was making noises about dismissing the charges against him\", and speculated that Colson was preparing to reveal highly damaging information against Nixon, an expectation shared by columnist Clark Mollenhoff; Mollenhoff even went so far as to suggest that for Colson \"not\" to become a \"devastating witness\" would cast doubt on the sincerity of his conversion. On June 21, 1974, Colson was given a one-to- three-year sentence and fined $5,000. He was subsequently disbarred in the District of Columbia, with the expectation of his also being prohibited from using his licenses from Virginia and Massachusetts.\n\nColson served seven months in Maxwell Correctional Facility in Alabama,—with brief stints at a facility on the Fort Holabird grounds when needed as a trial witness— entering prison on July 9, 1974, and being released early, on January 31, 1975, by the sentencing judge because of family problems. At the time that Gesell ordered his release, Colson was one of the last of the Watergate defendants still in jail: only Gordon Liddy was still incarcerated. Egil Krogh had served his sentence and been released before Colson entered jail, while John Dean, Jeb Magruder, and Herb Kalmbach had been released earlier in January 1975 by Judge John Sirica. Although Gesell declined to name the \"family problems\" prompting the release, Colson wrote in his 1976 memoir that his son Chris, angry over his father's imprisonment and looking to replace his broken car, had bought $150 worth of marijuana in hopes of selling it at a profit, and had been arrested in South Carolina, where he was in college. The state later dropped the charges.\n\n\"Born Again\", Colson's personal memoir reflecting on his religious conversion and prison term, was made into a 1978 dramatic film starring Dean Jones as Colson, Anne Francis as his wife Patty, and Harold Hughes as himself. Actor Kevin Dunn portrayed Colson in the 1995 movie \"Nixon\".\n\nDuring his time in prison, Colson had become increasingly aware of what he saw as injustices done to prisoners and incarcerates and shortcomings in their rehabilitation; he also had the opportunity, during a three-day furlough to attend his father's funeral, to pore over his father's papers and discover the two shared an interest in prison reform. He became convinced that he was being called by God to develop a ministry to prisoners with an emphasis in promoting changes in the justice system.\n\nAfter his release from prison, Colson founded Prison Fellowship in 1976, which today is \"the nation's largest outreach to prisoners, ex-prisoners, and their families\". Colson worked to promote prisoner rehabilitation and reform of the prison system in the United States, citing his disdain for what he called the \"lock 'em and leave 'em\" warehousing approach to criminal justice. He helped to create prisons whose populations come from inmates who choose to participate in faith-based programs.\n\nIn 1979, Colson founded Prison Fellowship International to extend his prison outreach outside the United States. Now in 120 countries, Prison Fellowship International is the largest, most extensive association of national Christian ministries working within the criminal justice field, working to proclaim the Gospel worldwide and alleviate the suffering of prisoners and their families. In 1983, Prison Fellowship International received special consultative status with the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations. During this time, Colson also founded Justice Fellowship, using his influence in conservative political circles to push for bipartisan, legislative reforms in the U.S. criminal justice system.\n\nOn June 18, 2003, Colson was invited by President George W. Bush to the White House to present results of a scientific study on the faith-based initiative, InnerChange, at the Carol Vance Unit (originally named the Jester II Unit) prison facility of the Texas Department of Criminal Justice in Fort Bend County, Texas. Colson led a small group that includes Dr. Byron Johnson of the University of Pennsylvania, who was the principal researcher of the InnerChange study, a few staff members of Prison Fellowship and three InnerChange graduates to the meeting. In the presentation, Johnson explained that 171 participants in the InnerChange program were compared to a matched group of 1,754 inmates from the prison's general population. The study found that only 8 percent of InnerChange graduates, as opposed to 20.3 percent of inmates in the matched comparison group, became offenders again in a two-year period. In other words, the recidivism rate was cut by almost two-thirds for those who complete the faith-based program. Those who are dismissed for disciplinary reasons or who drop out voluntarily, or those who are paroled before completion, have a comparable rate of rearrest and incarceration. The commonly-reported results from the study have been strongly criticized for selecting only participants who were unlikely to be rearrested (especially those who were successfully placed in post-prison jobs), and when considering all of the InnerChange study participants, their recidivism rate (24.3%) was worse than the control group (20.3%).\n\nColson maintained a variety of media channels which discuss contemporary issues from an evangelical Christian worldview. In his \"Christianity Today\" columns, for example, Colson opposed same-sex marriage, and argued that Darwinism is used to attack Christianity. He also argued against Darwinism and in favor of intelligent design, saying Darwinism helped cause forced sterilizations by eugenicists.\n\nColson was an outspoken critic of postmodernism, believing that as a cultural worldview, it is incompatible with the Christian tradition. He debated prominent post-evangelicals, such as Brian McLaren, on the best response for the evangelical church in dealing with the postmodern cultural shift. Colson, however, came alongside the creation care movement when endorsing Christian environmentalist author Nancy Sleeth’s \"Go Green, Save Green: A Simple Guide to Saving Time, Money, and God's Green Earth\". In the early 1980s, Colson was invited to New York by David Frost's variety program on NBC for an open debate with Madalyn Murray O'Hair, the atheist who in 1963, brought the court case (\"Murray v. Curlett\") that eliminated official public school prayers.\n\nColson was a member of the Family (also known as the Fellowship), described by prominent evangelical Christians as one of the most politically well-connected fundamentalist organizations in the US. On April 4, 1991, Colson was invited to deliver a speech as part of the Distinguished Lecturer series at Harvard Business School. The speech was titled \"The Problem of Ethics\", where he argued that a society without a foundation of moral absolutes cannot long survive.\n\nColson was later a principal signer of the 1994 \"Evangelicals and Catholics Together\" ecumenical document signed by leading Evangelical Protestants and Roman Catholic leaders in the United States, part of a larger ecumenical rapprochement in the United States that had begun in the 1970s with Catholic-Evangelical collaboration during the Gerald R. Ford Administration and in later para-church organizations such as Moral Majority founded by Rev. Jerry Falwell at the urging of Francis Schaeffer and his son Frank Schaeffer during the Jimmy Carter administration.\n\nIn November 2009, Colson was a principal writer and driving force behind an ecumenical statement known as the \"\" calling on evangelicals, Catholics and Orthodox Christians not to comply with rules and laws permitting abortion, same-sex marriage and other matters that go against their religious consciences. He previously had ignited controversy within Protestant circles for his mid-90s common-ground initiative with conservative Roman Catholics \"Evangelicals and Catholics Together\", which Colson wrote alongside prominent Roman Catholic Richard John Neuhaus. Colson was also a proponent of the Bible Literacy Project's curriculum \"The Bible and Its Influence\" for public high school literature courses. Colson has said that Protestants have a special duty to prevent anti-Catholic bigotry.\n\nIn 1988, Colson became involved with the Elizabeth Morgan case, visiting Morgan in jail and lobbying to change federal law in order to free her.\n\nOn October 3, 2002, Colson was one of the co-signers of the Land letter sent to President George W. Bush. The letter was written by Richard D. Land, president of the Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission of the Southern Baptist Convention and co-signed by four prominent American evangelical Christian leaders with Colson among them. The letter outlined their theological support for a just war in the form of a pre-emptive invasion of Iraq.\n\nOn June 1, 2005, Colson appeared in the national news commenting on the revelation that W. Mark Felt was Deep Throat. Colson expressed disapproval in Felt's role in the Watergate scandal, first in the context of Felt being an FBI employee who should have known better than to disclose the results of a government investigation to the press (violating a fundamental tenet of FBI culture), and second in the context of the trust placed in him (which demanded a more active response, such as a face-to-face confrontation with the FBI director or Nixon or, had that failed, public resignation). His criticism of Felt provoked a harsh response from former \"Washington Post\" executive editor Benjamin Bradlee, one of only three individuals to know who Deep Throat was prior to the public disclosure, who said he was \"baffled\" that Colson and Liddy were \"lecturing the world about public morality\" considering their role in the Watergate scandal. Bradlee stated that \"as far as I'm concerned they have no standing in the morality debate.\"\n\nColson also supported the passage of Proposition 8. He signed his name to a full-page ad in the December 5, 2008 \"The New York Times\" that objected to violence and intimidation against religious institutions and believers in the wake of the passage of Proposition 8. The ad stated that \"violence and intimidation are always wrong, whether the victims are believers, gay people, or anyone else.\" A dozen other religious and human rights activists from several different faiths also signed the ad, noting that they \"differ on important moral and legal questions,\" including Proposition 8.\n\nFrom 1982 to 1995, Colson received honorary doctorates from various colleges and universities.\n\nIn 1990, The Salvation Army recognized Colson with its highest civic award, the Others Award. Previous recipients of the award include Barbara Bush, Paul Harvey, US Senator Bob Dole and the Meadows Foundation.\n\nIn 1993, Colson was awarded the Templeton Prize for Progress in Religion, the world's largest cash gift (over $1 million), which is given each year to the one person in the world who has done the most to advance the cause of religion. He donated this prize, as he did all speaking fees and royalties, to further the work of Prison Fellowship.\n\nIn 1994, Colson was quoted in contemporary Christian music artist Steven Curtis Chapman's song \"Heaven in the Real World\" as saying:\n\nWhere is the hope? I meet millions of people who feel demoralized by the decay around us. The hope that each of us has is not in who governs us, or what laws we pass, or what great things we do as a nation. Our hope is in the power of God working through the hearts of people. And that's where our hope is in this country. And that's where our hope is in life.\n\nIn 1999, Colson co-authored \"How Now Shall We Live?\" with Nancy Pearcey and published by Tyndale House. The book was winner of the Evangelical Christian Publishers Association 2000 Gold Medallion Book Award in the \"Christianity and Society\" category. Colson had previously won the 1993 Gold Medallion award in the \"Theology/Doctrine\" category for \"The Body\" co-authored with Ellen Santilli Vaughn, published by Word, Inc.\n\nOn February 9, 2001, the Council for Christian Colleges and Universities (CCCU) presented Colson with the Mark O. Hatfield Leadership Award at the Forum on Christian Higher Education in Orlando, Florida. The award is presented to individuals who have demonstrated uncommon leadership that reflects the values of Christian higher education. The award was established in 1997 in honor of US Senator Mark Hatfield, a long-time supporter of the Council.\n\nIn 2008, Colson was presented with the Presidential Citizens Medal by President George W. Bush.\n\nIn 2000, Florida Governor Jeb Bush reinstated the rights taken away by Colson's felony conviction, including the right to vote.\n\nOn March 31, 2012, Colson underwent surgery to remove a blood clot on his brain after he fell ill while speaking at a Christian worldview conference. CBN erroneously reported on April 18, 2012, that he died with his family at his side but Prison Fellowship later (12:30am on April 19 and again at 7:02am) pointed out that he was still alive as of that moment.\n\nOn April 21, 2012, Colson died in the hospital \"from complications resulting from a brain hemorrhage\".\n\nColson had a long list of publications and collaborations, including over 30 books which have sold more than 5 million copies. He also wrote forewords for several other books.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35449910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35449910", "title": "Cross necklace", "text": "Cross necklace\n\nA cross necklace is any necklace featuring a Christian cross or crucifix worn by Christians and others. They are often purchased at stores, or received as gifts for rites such as baptism and confirmation.\n\nCrosses are often worn as an indication of commitment to the Christian faith. In addition, some Christians believe that the wearing of a cross offers the wearer protection from evil. Individuals, including Christians and some non-Christians, may also wear cross necklaces as a fashion accessory.\n\nMost adherents of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church will wear a cross attached to either a chain or a \"matäb\", a silk cord. The matäb is tied about the neck at the time of baptism, and the recipient is expected to wear the matäb at all times. Women will often affix a cross or other pendant to the matäb, but this is not considered essential.\n\nIn some nations, such as the People's Socialist Republic of Albania, an atheist state, the wearing of cross necklaces was historically banned. Many Christian bishops of several denominations, such as the Anglican Church, wear the pectoral cross as a sign of their order.\n\nIn two highly publicised British cases, nurse Shirley Chaplin and British Airways flight attendant Nadia Eweida were disciplined for wearing cross necklaces at work, in breach of their employment terms. Both took their cases to the European Court of Human Rights; Chaplin's case was dismissed, while Eweida was awarded damages on the grounds that the UK government had failed to weigh her right to religious expression heavily enough. In light of such cases, in 2012 the former Archbishop of Canterbury of the Anglican Communion, Lord Carey, and then head of the Roman Catholic Church in Scotland, Cardinal Keith O'Brien, have urged all Christians to wear cross necklaces regularly.\n\n"}
{"id": "40930720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40930720", "title": "Crown Heights Jewish Community Council", "text": "Crown Heights Jewish Community Council\n\nCrown Heights Jewish Community Council (CHJCC) is a nonprofit organization run by Jewish residents of Crown Heights, Brooklyn. CHJCC acts as a social service agency provides services to community residents including assistance to the elderly, housing, employment and job training, youth services and a food bank.\n\nFormed in 1969, CHJCC administers social service programs operating in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. The agency provides referrals for community residents on issues of housing, employment, economic development, entitlements, problems of the aging and aid to crime victims.\n\nCHJCC also provides employment and job training, youth services and a food bank.\n\nCHJCC also serves as a legal body representing the needs of the Crown Heights Jewish community. The organization's mission includes a pledge to represent and speak in the behalf of the local Jewish community, and to combat antisemitism.\n\nThe Crown Heights Jewish community is mostly composed of Chabad Hasidim.\n\nCHJCC has created a multi-racial, faith, and community-based program called \"Project Care\". Project Care has explored new avenues of communication and cooperation between local civic and religious leaders within the community. The project promotes social and economic development in Crown Heights.\n\nCHJCC is run by a council, headed by the council chairman; the chairman and other members of the council are appointed in a public election, held every three years.\n\nThe elections are overseen by a council representing all Crown Heights synagogues, referred to as the \"N’tzigim\". In the event the N'tzigim are unable, or otherwise refuse to supervise the election, CHJCC must hire an outside firm to oversee the election.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1339815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1339815", "title": "Doug Stanhope", "text": "Doug Stanhope\n\nDouglas Stanhope (born March 25, 1967) is an American stand-up comedian, actor, author, political activist, and podcast host.\n\nStanhope was born on March 25, 1967 in Worcester, Massachusetts to an upper middle class family. His father Russ was head of science at Stanhope's school, and died in 2000. His mother Bonnie (\"née\" Kirk) was a waitress. A recovering alcoholic, she quit drinking and left home for Florida when Stanhope was ten following their divorce. In 1998, he convinced her to live near him in West Hollywood. In her later life she suffered from emphysema. In 2008, at her request, she wished for Stanhope to be involved in an assisted suicide with a mixture of cocktails and prescription morphine. Stanhope waited until the statute of limitations had expired for the ensuing credit card fraud before telling the story in his stand-up act and his second book. Stanhope has an elder brother, Jeff.\n\nAt age 12, Stanhope's school psychiatrist wrote a letter to his mother detailing his concern with Stanhope's tendency to sketch gory images and adult themed cartoons, suggesting he was \"in need of professional help\". Stanhope quit school at fifteen. Among his early comedy influences were Monty Python and National Lampoon. Before he started comedy full time, Stanhope worked in telemarketing, \"borderline legal stuff, trying to scam people basically\".\n\nStanhope began his stand-up comedy career in 1990 at age 23, having moved to Las Vegas after six months in Los Angeles. He did his first routine at an open mic night at a local bar, where it made him \"sit down and write jokes\". He developed his act in Las Vegas before he moved to Phoenix, Arizona, where he landed a gig as a house MC at a comedy club. He also lived in Florida, Oceanside, California, Idaho, and at one point returned to Massachusetts. Stanhope lived out of his car for three years.\n\nIn 1995, he settled in West Hollywood which he \"hated [...] so much\" partly due to the slump in comedy acts at the time. Among his regular spots were the Hollywood Improv or The Comedy Store, before he became based in Playa del Rey and worked in clubs outside the city center. Around this time, he landed a development deal and \"flirted\" with the idea of producing a sitcom by co-writing a pilot episode with a writer of \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\". He later described the script as a \"piece of shit\", and felt thankful it was never picked up. In 1995, Stanhope won the San Francisco International Comedy Competition against Dane Cook in a three-week contest.\n\nIn the aftermath of the September 11 attacks in New York City, Stanhope received some criticism from audiences over his comments regarding the event. This included protests outside of his gigs and attacks on stage.\n\nIn July 2002, Fox aired back-to-back episodes of Stanhope's hidden camera television show \"Invasion of the Hidden Cameras\". The project began in 1999, with Stanhope writing and producing various pranks for it, before the network decided to withdraw its broadcast. Stanhope accused \"Spy TV\" of stealing half of his ideas and achieving good ratings as a result. He starred as one of the pranksters on \"Spy TV\".\n\nIn August 2002, Stanhope won the Strathmore Press Award for his week-long run at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe, as voted by 40 press critics. The prize was £1,000 and a feature in the British celebrity magazine \"OK!\". Following the run, Stanhope signed with his longtime manager Brian Hennigan.\n\nIn 2003 and 2004, Stanhope co-hosted the fifth and sixth seasons of \"The Man Show\" with Joe Rogan. He agreed to the project in order to become more financially stable. Among the show's segments included Stanhope lasting five rounds in a boxing match with Tonya Harding, and his mother reviewing pornographic films. He hosted his own radio show on SIRIUS Satellite Radio in 2005. That year, Stanhope hosted \"\".\n\nStanhope established a group of touring comics known as \"The Unbookables\" featuring such artists as Andy Andrist, James Inman, and Brendon Walsh, among others. The Unbookables' first CD, \"Morbid Obscenity\".\n\nIn 2005, Stanhope moved to Bisbee, Arizona.\n\nHe appeared in the film \"The Aristocrats\", telling a caustic joke to a baby.\n\nIn June 2006, Stanhope was booked to perform several shows at the Cat Laughs Comedy Festival in Kilkenny, Ireland. However, roughly ten minutes into his set, a joke about Irish men committing pedophilia because of the ugliness of Irish women for raping caused a hostile reaction from the audience. The incident led to the cancellation of Stanhope's remaining appearances at the festival. That August, he returned to the Edinburgh Festival Fringe, agreeing to a full three-week residency. At one show, one of his routines sparked a violent affray with an angered audience member and the police were called in, causing Stanhope to leave the venue. He gained 5-star reviews from the press. On his opening night he took what was believed to be an ecstasy tablet that was handed to him by a member of the audience. At the 2008 Fringe, Stanhope announced A Day with Doug, an opportunity to spend an entire day with him for £7,349, the average amount that comedians lose when they are booked at one of the four biggest venues at the festival.\n\nStanhope announced his intention to seek election as the United States President in the 2008 election on the Libertarian Party ticket. He added: \"It seemed like a funny thing to do [...] But people were either amused or horrified at the idea of me representing their party\". His focus was for \"individual freedom, self-government and making America fun again\".\n\nHis live show was placed in the top 5 of the \"20 Best Live Shows of 2009\" by London's \"The Guardian\" newspaper.\n\nStanhope's seventh album, \"From Across The Street\", was released on November 24, 2009.\n\nIn 2010, Stanhope recorded a series of vignettes for the British news show \"Newswipe with Charlie Brooker\". In 2013, he did the same during \"Charlie Brooker's Weekly Wipe\" as \"the voice of America\". On November 17, 2010, Stanhope signed to rock and metal label Roadrunner Records to launch their new comedy label, Roadrunner Comedy. On May 3, 2011, the album was released: \"\". This was supported with an international tour, which included a 25-night residency at the Leicester Square Theatre in London. By this time, Stanhope had won \"Time Out New York\" Best Comedy Performance award twice.\n\nIn 2011, in co-operation with the mayor of Reykjavík and comedian Jón Gnarr, Stanhope scheduled a performance in Iceland's only maximum security prison, Litla-Hraun. The show took place on September 25. Also in 2011, Stanhope appeared on the FX series \"Louie\" as Eddie Mack, a comedian that Louis C.K. knew 20 years earlier when they first started performing, in the season 2 episode entitled \"Eddie\", first aired on August 11, 2011. He spoke of his role: \"I tried to beg out of it. I said, I suck at acting. He had to talk me into trying\", and auditioned online through Skype.\n\nIn 2012, Stanhope released his comedy special \"Before Turning the Gun on Himself\", recorded in Salt Lake City. He named it after how commonplace the phrase was on online news articles. Also in 2012, he impersonated John Lydon in a pre-taped radio interview with Mike Ragogna after the studio mistakenly called his number thinking it was Lydon's.\n\nOn February 16, 2013, Stanhope debuted \"The Doug Stanhope Podcast\", recorded out of his home in Bisbee, Arizona. In 2014, it was hosted by the All Things Comedy network.\n\nIn May 2013, a fundraiser initiated by Stanhope raised nearly $126,000 for a woman and her family whose home was destroyed by the 2013 Moore, Oklahoma tornado. He said he did so in support of her declared atheism, saying he admired her courage in a predominantly Christian state.\n\nOn May 5, 2014, Stanhope announced on \"The Howard Stern Show\" that he was working with Johnny Depp on a show. According to Stanhope, Depp befriended him in Europe and had an unknown project in mind for him. He had a supporting role in the 2014 Chris Rock film \"Top Five\", playing a police officer.\n\nStanhope appeared on \"Bar Rescue\" as Jon Taffer's guest to watch the recon of the Pomona, California bar Friar Tucks in an episode called \"\"Storming the Castle\"\".\n\nIn May 2015, Stanhope announced that he was writing a book about his life with his mother, an occasional subject in his comedy. The book, entitled \"Digging Up Mother: A Love Story\", was released on May 10, 2016 and includes a foreword by Johnny Depp.\n\nStanhope filmed his comedy special \"No Place Like Home\" on November 21, 2015 at the Bisbee Royale in Bisbee. The film was produced by Johnny Depp.\n\nIn June 2016, actress Amber Heard sued Stanhope for his \"defamatory\" claim that she was blackmailing her ex-husband Johnny Depp. Heard dropped the lawsuit in the aftermath of her and Depp's $7 million divorce settlement.\n\nIn 2017, Stanhope released his third book, \"This is Not Fame\". It is a collection of stories about being an infamous comedian.\n\nAlthough his views have led people to believe that he is a liberal, he does not accept this characterization. Stanhope says that libertarianism was a phase he went through, but he now describes himself as an anarchist. \n\nIn 2004, he endorsed the Free State Project, a proposed political migration of at least 20,000 libertarians to a single low-population state, in order to make the state a stronghold for libertarian ideas. According to Stanhope this is an idea \"that could produce tangible change in our lifetime.\" \n\nIn 2012, Stanhope originally supported Republican Ron Paul for the 2012 presidential election, but later endorsed Libertarian Gary Johnson.\n\nIn 2002, Stanhope and his girlfriend Renee Morrison staged a marriage ceremony in Las Vegas. He later said that it was \"mocking the institution of marriage\", and that it was not legal. At one point, the two were expecting a child but opted for abortion, and Stanhope got a vasectomy. Stanhope dated comedian and former attorney Betsy Wise for 18 months. Around 2005 Stanhope met his current partner, Amy \"Bingo\" Bingaman who he has referred to as his girlfriend and wife. Stanhope is opposed to having children and cites overpopulation as a reason.\n\nStanhope is known for his heavy alcohol consumption and is a self-confessed drunk. In a 2011 interview, he said the last time he was sober on stage was in 2003. He is also known for dressing in thrift store clothing.\n\nHe describes himself as pro-choice and pro-drug.\n\n"}
{"id": "1064133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1064133", "title": "Dvaita Vedanta", "text": "Dvaita Vedanta\n\nDvaita Vedanta (; ) is a sub-school in the Vedanta tradition of Hindu philosophy. Alternatively known as \"Bhedavāda\", \"Tattvavāda\" and \"Bimbapratibimbavāda\", Dvaita Vedanta sub-school was founded by the 13th-century scholar Madhvacharya. The Dvaita Vedanta school believes that God (Vishnu, supreme soul) and the individual souls (jīvātman) exist as independent realities, and these are distinct. The Dvaita school contrasts with the other two major sub-schools of Vedanta, the Advaita Vedanta of Adi Shankara which posits nondualism – that ultimate reality (Brahman) and human soul are identical and all reality is interconnected oneness, and Vishishtadvaita of Ramanuja which posits qualified nondualism – that ultimate reality (Brahman) and human soul are different but with the potential to be identical.\n\nDvaita (द्वैत) is a Sanskrit word that means \"duality, dualism\". The term refers to any premise, particularly in theology on the temporal and the divine, where two principles (truths) or realities are posited to exist simultaneously and independently.\n\nDvaita Vedanta is a dualistic interpretation of the Vedas, espouses dualism by theorizing the existence of two separate realities. The first and the only independent reality (svatantra-tattva), states the Dvaita school, is that of Vishnu as Brahman. Vishnu is the supreme Self, in a manner similar to monotheistic God in other major religions. The second reality is that of dependent (asvatantra-tattva) but equally real universe that exists with its own separate essence. Everything that is composed of the second reality, such as individual soul, matter, and the like exist with their own separate reality. The distinguishing factor of this philosophy, as opposed to monistic Advaita Vedanta, is that God takes on a personal role and is seen as a real eternal entity that governs and controls the universe.\n\nLike Ramanuja, Madhvacharya also embraced Vaishnavism. Madhvacharya posits God as being personal and \"saguna\", that is endowed with attributes and qualities. To Madhvacharya, the metaphysical concept of Brahman in the Vedas was Vishnu. He stated \"brahmaśabdaśca Viṣṇaveva\", that Brahman can only refer to Vishnu. To him, Vishnu was not just any other deva, but rather the one and only Supreme Being.\n\nDvaita Vedanta acknowledges two principles; however, it holds one of them (the sentient) as being eternally dependent on the other. The individual souls are depicted as reflections, images or shadows of the divine, but never in any way identical with the divine. Moksha (liberation) therefore is described as the realization that all finite reality is essentially dependent on the Supreme.\n\nFive fundamental, eternal and real differences are described in Dvaita school:\n\nThese five differences are said to explain the nature of the universe. The world is called \"prapañca\" (\"pañca\" \"five\") by the Dvaita school for this reason.\n\nMadhva differed significantly from traditional Hindu beliefs owing to his concept of eternal damnation. For example, he divides souls into three classes. One class of souls, \"mukti-yogyas\", qualifies for liberation, another, the \"nitya-samsarins\", subject to eternal rebirth or eternal transmigration and a third class, \"tamo-yogyas\", who are condemned to eternal hell (\"andhatamasa\"). No other Hindu philosopher or school of Hinduism holds such beliefs. In contrast, most Hindus believe in universal salvation, that all souls will eventually obtain moksha, even if after millions of rebirths.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10615523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10615523", "title": "Eileen Egan", "text": "Eileen Egan\n\nEileen Egan (1912–2000) was a journalist, Roman Catholic activist, and co-founder of the Catholic peace group, American PAX Association and its successor Pax Christi-USA, the American branch of International Pax Christi. Starting 1943 she remained an active member of Catholic Relief Services, and a longtime friend of Mother Teresa, she wrote her biography \"Such A Vision: Mother Teresa, the Spirit, and the Work\", and marched with Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. at Selma. She first coined the term \"seamless garment\" to describe the unity of Catholic teaching on life issues.\n\nBorn in Wales, she moved with her family to New York City in 1926, and completed her secondary education at Cathedral High School. Later she graduated from Hunter College in 1933, and began a career as a freelance journalist.\n\nIn 1943 she joined the staff of the U.S. Bishops' War Relief Services (later known as Catholic Relief Services, or CRS) as its first professional layperson. Her first assignment was in Mexico, where she worked with displaced Polish war refugees. The following year she was posted to Barcelona, where she ministered to victims of the Holocaust. She then headed the CRS office in Lisbon, Portugal.\n\nBack in New York briefly in 1945, she was out of the office the July day a B-25 crashed into the CRS headquarters on the seventy-ninth floor of the Empire State Building. Ten fellow staff members were killed. The following year, Egan was back in Europe helping to resettle waves of displaced persons. Writer Mike Aquilina observed that \"...these works of mercy might involve carefully planned news leaks, sifting through propaganda or misinformation campaigns, or even ... using Chicago’s Polish vote to protect Polish refugees.\" She later received the highest honor awarded civilians by both the French and German governments.\n\nIn the course of her work, Egan visited Palestinian refugees in Gaza, Chinese exiles in Hong Kong, and displaced civilians in Pakistan, Korea and Vietnam. In 1955 she met Mother Teresa in Calcutta. She was Mother Teresa's official biographer and helped introduce the latter's work in the West.\n\nEgan combined CRS's practical work of providing economic assistance, food, housing, and transportation to war victims with speaking, writing and demonstrating against the causes of war. In 1962 she co-founded the American Pax Society, which under her leadership evolved into Pax Christi USA in 1972.\n\nShe marched with Martin Luther King, Jr. at Selma, Alabama, had a major, behind-the-scenes hand in framing the \"peace\" statements of Vatican II, and promoted the work of Jean and Hildegard Goss-Mayr, crucial to the peaceful ouster of Ferdinand Marcos of the Philippines. One of her major achievements was the 1987 recognition of conscientious objection as a universal human right by the United Nations Commission on Human Rights (resolution 1987/46). She traveled widely with Dorothy Day, introducing her to Mother Teresa in 1970, and was with Day picketing for farm workers in California in 1973 when Day was arrested for the final time.\n\nEileen Egan was awarded the Pacem in Terris Peace and Freedom Award in 1989. It was named after a 1963 encyclical letter by Pope John XXIII that calls upon all people of good will to secure peace among all nations. \"Pacem in terris\" is Latin for 'Peace on Earth'.\n\nEgan did not consider herself a pacifist. She did not care for the term \"pacifist\" because of its misleading echo in the word \"passivity\". She said that she used the term \"gospel nonviolence, or \"gospel peacemaking\" instead. She argued that the so-called just war concept was an alien graft on the gospel of Jesus.\n\nIn 1992 at age 80, Egan was mugged on the way to Mass and had to go to a New York hospital with a broken hip and several fractured ribs. Her response to her attacker was one of care and forgiveness.\n\nShe died on October 7, 2000, aged 88.\n\nEgan was named to the Hunter Alumni Hall of Fame in 1983. Catholic Relief Services created the \"Eileen Egan Journalism Award\" in May 1995 in honor of Eileen Egan. The Egan Journalism Fellowship was created by Catholic Relief Services to recognize journalists who demonstrate excellence in their reporting for Catholic media and to encourage them to increase their coverage of poverty and development issues overseas. In 2007, Pax Christi USA established the Eileen Egan Peacemaker Award to recognize a group or individual who has made a strong and extraordinary prophetic witness for peace in a time or situation of devastating violence or injustice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41079721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41079721", "title": "El Bagawat", "text": "El Bagawat\n\nEl Bagawat, is an ancient Christian cemetery, one of the oldest in the world, which functioned at the Kharga Oasis in southern-central Egypt from the 3rd to the 7th century AD. It is one of the earliest and best preserved Christian cemeteries from the ancient world.\n\nThe Necropolis of El Bagawat is located in the Western Desert in Kharga Oasis. This is one of the largest oases in Egypt and is 34 m below sea level.\n\nThe El Bagawat cemetery is reported to be pre-historic and is one of the oldest Christian cemeteries in Egypt. Before Christianity was introduced into Egypt, it was a burial ground used by the non-Christians and later years by the Christians. The chapels here are said to belong to both the eras. Coptic frescoes of the 3rd to the 7th century are found on the walls. There are 263 funerary chapels of which the Chapel of Exodus (5th or 6th century) and Chapel of Peace (of mid 4th century) have frescoes.\n\nThe El Bagawat cemetery has a very large number of tombs in the form of chapel domes. They are built of mud bricks. The tombs have etchings of biblical stories,\nand also of saints and “personifications of virtues”.\n\nIn the Exodus Chapel, there is depiction of martyrdom of Isiah; and also of Tekla postured with raised hands, in front of fire being doused by rain. In the Chapel of Peace, the illustrative fresco is of Thekla and Paul.\n\nThere are paintings in the cemetery which show the ark of Noah in the form of an \"Egyptian barque\". Also notable are carved representations of Old Testament scriptures, including Adam and Eve, Daniel in the lion's den, the sacrifice of Abraham, and Jonah swallowed by a fish.\n\n"}
{"id": "16726383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16726383", "title": "Eva Margareta Frölich", "text": "Eva Margareta Frölich\n\nEva Margareta Frölich (c. 1650 – September 1692 in Stockholm), was a Swedish mystic, prophet, visionary and Pietistic writer.\n\nFrölich was born the daughter of colonel Hans Christoffer Frölich and Elisabet von Plessen. The location and exact date is unknown. Her brother, Karl Gustaf Frölich, was an ennobled count; she became the aunt of Charlotta Frölich. \n\nShe was married in Riga in Latvia, then a Swedish province, to Johann Henning Neumeijer, colonel in the Swedish army, whom she abandoned in 1684, when she arrived in Stockholm in Sweden in the company of the goldsmith Berendt Doerchmann and made herself known as a prophet and a preacher. She was received by King Charles XII of Sweden, where she predicted that he was to be the founder of the thousand-year kingdom of Christ and rule over all of Christianity. The same year, she was sentenced to exile and traveled to Hamburg, where she published her work about millennialism and the seven congregations in the Bible, which caused her banishment from the city. She then settled in Amsterdam, where she published many of her works and continued to be active as a prophet and a preacher, still assisted by Berendt Doerchmann.\n\nOne of her opinions was that women should be allowed to preach.\n\nShe returned to Stockholm in 1692, where she held speeches against the priests \"almost worse than before\" and tried to publish her work. She was arrested and put in jail, where she died the same year. \n\nHer theology has been described as a mix between spiritualism, pietism, orthodoxy and the punishment ideology from the Old Testament. She was a Lutheran, but attacked the literary version of the priests.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43215183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43215183", "title": "Ex-Muslims of North America", "text": "Ex-Muslims of North America\n\nEx-Muslims of North America (EXMNA) is a 501(c)(3) registered non-profit organization which describes itself as advocating for acceptance of religious dissent, promoting secular values, and aiming to reduce discrimination faced by those who leave Islam.\n\nThe organization was founded in 2013 in Washington, DC, by Sarah Haider and Muhammad Syed and in Toronto by Sadar Ali and Nas Ishmael. They say that it is the first organization of its kind to \"establish communities exclusive to ex-muslims in order to foster a sense of camaraderie and offer a space free of judgement for lack of religiosity.\"\n\nIts stated mission is to reduce discrimination faced by those who leave Islam, advocate for acceptance of religious dissent, and promote secular values; counter the isolation facing non-theist ex-Muslims by fostering communities and support networks; and strive to amplify diverse ex-Muslim voices and experiences, and stand against those who seek to stifle criticism of Islam.\n\nThe organization has chapters in 25 cities across North America, a BBC article says that the organization has about 1,000 volunteers in 25 cities in North America and an article in the \"Democrat and Chronicle\" says that the group has about 24,000 total members.\n\nThe organization is run by staff, volunteers and relies on donations.\n\nEXMNA organizes support chapters across the United States and Canada which are closed-group meetings for safety reasons; individuals who wish to attend the support group events must go through a screening process for identity authentication purposes.\n\nEXMNA provides emergency support and grants to ex-Muslims in dire times – from escaping abuse to finding shelter and professional assistance. In 2018 Mahad Olad, a US college student was taken to Kenya and held against his will. He was to undergo conversion therapy to cure his apostasy and homosexuality. He was rescued through EXMNA's efforts and provided a grant to pay for his flight back to the US. \nEXMNA publishes \"The Ex-Muslim\" which the organization says is the world's first and only online magazine and blogroll that offers a \"nuanced insight on Islam from former Muslims.\"\n\nEXMNA spearheaded a campaign which successfully pressured Twitter to reverse its decision to submit to a request by the Pakistan Telecommunication Authority to block content and accounts which the agency deemed blasphemous in what a report by \"The New York Times\" said was the first time that the social networking service had agreed to withhold content in Pakistan.\n\nEXMNA went on a 2017–2018 campus tour across North America in what the organization said was a first-of-its kind effort to bring Muslim apostates and other activists to colleges across the United States and Canada. Entitled \"Normalizing Dissent Tour\", they covered in collaboration with student groups a variety of questions and challenges that Islam had brought to the Western world through panels, talks and discussions. The tour's featured speakers included Simon Cottee, Maryam Namazie, Afzal Upal, and Ibn Warraq.\n\nHaider said in a 2015 address to the American Humanist Association that \"I always expected feeling unwelcome from Muslim audiences, but I did not anticipate an equal amount of hostility from my allies on the left.\" Her critics have accused her of being pro-war, on the far right, an Uncle Tom, a House Arab, and a native informant. Yet she maintains she is a progressive liberal and the organization EXMNA has no certain political affiliation.\n\nIn 2016 a Wegmans in Fairfax, Virginia, refused to make a cake for the organization that was to be used in celebration of the third anniversary of the group's founding after a supervisor deemed the name of the group offensive; the company subsequently filled the cake order free of charge and issued an apology to EXMNA after legal intervention by a staff attorney from the Freedom From Religion Foundation who described the decision by the employee to refuse service as \"a potential civil rights violation.\"\n\nIn 2017 Facebook locked out EXMNA's account for a week because it had allegedly violated the company's terms of service although it did not specify which standards the account had allegedly violated. The page was subsequently unblocked, with a Facebook spokesperson saying in an email to the \"Observer\" that \"the pages were removed in error and restored as soon as we were able to investigate.\"\n\nIn late 2015, EXMNA took over ownership of http://wikiislam.net, a wiki intended to be a \"comprehensive and accurate source of information on Islam . . . based primarily on its own sources\"\n"}
{"id": "16145254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16145254", "title": "Freedom of religion in Bahrain", "text": "Freedom of religion in Bahrain\n\nThe Constitution of Bahrain states that Islam is the official religion and that \"Shari'a\" (Islamic law) is a principal source for legislation. \"Article 22\" of the Constitution provides for freedom of conscience, the inviolability of worship, and the freedom to perform religious rites and hold religious parades and meetings, in accordance with the customs observed in the country; however, the Government placed some limitations on the exercise of this right.\n\nThe citizen population in 2010 was 99.8% Muslim, although the Muslim proportion falls to 70.2% when the non-national population is included. Current census data doesn't differentiate between the other religions in Bahrain, but there are about 1,000 Christian citizens and fewer than 40 Jewish citizens. \n\nMuslims belong to the Shi'a and Sunni branches of Islam. There are no official figures, but the Shi'a constitute 66–70% of the Bahraini Muslim population. Foreigners, overwhelmingly from South Asia and other Arab countries, constituted 54% of the population in 2010. Of these, 45% are Muslim and 55% are non-Muslim, including Christians (primarily: Catholic, Protestant, Syriac Orthodox, and Mar Thoma from South India), Hindus, Bahá'ís, Buddhists, and Sikhs.\n\nThe Constitution states that Islam is the official religion of the country and also provides for freedom of religion; however, there were limits on this right. The Government allows religion-based, political nongovernmental organizations to register as political \"societies\", which operate somewhat like parties with the legal authority to conduct political activities. Parliamentary and municipal elections were held in 2006 and all political societies participated, including the largest Shi'a political society, which had boycotted the last parliamentary elections in 2002. Of eligible voters, 73% participated in the elections. Every religious group must obtain a license from the \"Ministry of Justice and Islamic Affairs\" (\"MOJIA\") to operate. In December 2006 the \"Ministry of Justice\" and \"Ministry of Islamic Affairs\" merged to form the \"MOJIA\". Depending on circumstances, for example, the opening of a religious school, a religious group may also need approval from the \"Ministry of Social Development\", the \"Ministry of Information\", and/or the \"Ministry of Education\". Christian congregations that are registered with the \"Ministry of Social Development\" operated freely and were allowed to offer their facilities to other Christian congregations that did not have their places of worship. The Government prohibits anti-Islamic writings. Four Sikh temples and several Hindu temples are allowed to function freely. The country's only synagogue has not been operational for nearly 60 years.\n\nHolding a religious meeting without a permit is illegal; however, there were no reports of religious groups being denied a permit to gather. Unregistered Christian congregations exist, and there were no reports of the Government attempting to force unregistered congregations to register. The \"High Council for Islamic Affairs\" is charged with the review and approval of all clerical appointments within both the Sunni and Shi'a communities and maintains program oversight for all citizens studying religion abroad. Historically there is evidence of discrimination against Shi'a Muslims in recruitment for the country's military and domestic security services. During the reporting period, the \"Ministry of Defense\" did not recruit Shi'a for military service. The \"Ministry of Interior\" made increasing efforts to recruit additional Shi'a into nonmilitary security agencies during the reporting period. On April 19, 2007, officials in the \"Ministry of Education\" announced that the Ministry, in conjunction with the MOJIA, was developing a new religious education curriculum to be taught in all public schools, beginning the next academic year. According to the \"Undersecretary of Islamic Affairs\", the new curriculum will focus on practices in Islam and jurisprudence and will contain content against radicalism and extremism. The \"Undersecretary for Islamic Affairs\" reportedly stressed to the \"Ministry of Education\" that the new curriculum should be inclusive of the convictions of all branches of Islam. Islamic studies are a part of the curriculum in government schools and mandatory for all public school students. The decades-old curriculum is based on the Maliki school of Sunni theology. Proposals to include the Ja'afari traditions of Shi'a Islam in the curriculum have been rejected. The civil and criminal legal systems consist of a complex mix of courts based on diverse legal sources, including Sunni and Shi'a Shari'a, tribal law, and other civil codes and regulations. The number of Shi'a Shari'a judges was slightly higher than the number of their Sunni counterparts.\n\nAlthough the Constitution provides for women's political rights, Shari'a governs personal status. Specific rights vary according to Shi'a or Sunni interpretations of Islamic law, as determined by the individual's faith, or by the courts in which various contracts originate, including marriage. While both Shi'a and Sunni women have the right to initiate a divorce, religious courts may refuse the request. Women of either branch of Islam may own and inherit property and may represent themselves in all public and legal matters. In the absence of a direct male heir, a Shi'a woman may inherit all property. In contrast, in the absence of a direct male heir, a Sunni woman inherits only a portion as governed by Shari'a; the balance is divided among brothers, uncles, and male cousins of the deceased. A Muslim woman may legally marry a non-Muslim man only if he first converts to Islam. In such marriages, the children automatically are considered Muslim. In divorce cases, the courts routinely grant Shi'a and Sunni women custody of children until an age at which custody reverts to the father based on Ja'afari and Maliki Islamic law, respectively. In all circumstances except mental incapacitation, the father, regardless of custody decisions, retains the right to make certain legal decisions for his children, such as guardianship of any property belonging to the child, until the child reaches legal age. A noncitizen woman automatically loses custody of her children if she divorces their citizen father. There are no restrictions on the number of citizens permitted to make pilgrimages to Shi'a shrines and holy sites in Iran, Iraq, and Syria. The Government monitors travel to Iran and scrutinizes carefully those who choose to pursue religious study there. The Government does not designate religion or sect on national identity documents. Upon the birth of a child, parents applying for a birth certificate are asked to provide the child's religion (not sect), but the government-issued birth certificate does not include this information. The law does not prohibit conversion from one religion to another. The following holidays are considered national holidays: Eid ul-Adha, Eid ul-Fitr, the \"Birth of the Prophet Muhammad\", Day of \"Ashura\", and the Islamic New Year. Leaders representing many religious groups visited the country and met with government and civic leaders. These included the Metropolitan of the Mar Thoma Church in India, the highest official in the church.\n\nGovernment policy and practice contribute to the generally free practice of religion. Members of other religious groups who practice their faith privately do so without interference from the Government and are permitted to maintain their own places of worship and display the symbols of their religion, such as crosses and statues of deities and saints. The Government funds all official religious institutions, including Shi'a and Sunni mosques, Shi'a \"ma`tams\" (religious community centers), Shi'a and Sunni \"waqfs\" (religious endowments), and the religious courts, which represent both the Ja'afari (Shi'a) and Maliki (Sunni) schools of Islamic jurisprudence. The Government permits public religious events, most notably the large annual commemorative marches by Shi'a Muslims during the Islamic months of Ramadan and Muharram. \n\nConverts to Islam from other religious groups were not uncommon, especially in cases of marriage between Muslim men and non-Muslim women. These converts were normally welcomed into the Muslim community. On the other hand, converts from Islam to other religious groups were not well tolerated by society. It was reported that families and communities often shunned these individuals and sometimes subjected converts to physical abuse. Some of these converts believed it necessary to leave the country permanently. \n\nDuring the 2011–2012 Arab Spring uprising and crackdown against Shia protest in Bahrain, \"dozens\" of Shia mosques have been leveled by the government according to a report in McClatchy newspapers. According to Shiite leaders interviewed by the reporter, work crews have often arrived \"in the dead of night, accompanied by police and military escorts\", to demolish the mosques, and in many cases, have hauled away the buildings' rubble before townspeople awake so as to leave no trace. Sheikh Khalid bin Ali bin Abdulla al Khalifa, the minister of justice and Islamic affairs for Bahrain, defended the demolitions stating: \"These are not mosques. These are illegal buildings.\" However the McClatchy reporter found that photos taken of several mosques before their destruction by the government \"showed they were well maintained, decades-old structures.\" \n\nThe MOJIA has repeatedly denied a Bahá'í congregation a license to function, although the group has not sought official recognition in many years, and it refuses to recognize the congregation; but the Bahá'í community continued to gather and worship freely without government interference. While the MOJIA views the Bahá'í Faith as an inauthentic offshoot of Islam and blasphemous, some other government ministries included Bahá'í as a religion choice in \"drop-down\" computer menus for citizens applying for certain government documents.\n\nBibles and other Christian publications are displayed and sold openly in local bookstores that also sold Islamic and other religious literature. Churches also sold Christian materials, including books, music, and messages from Christian leaders, openly and without restriction. Religious tracts of all branches of Islam, cassettes of sermons delivered by Muslim preachers from other countries, and publications of other religions were readily available. In recent years, the \"Ministry of Interior\" has made efforts to reform hiring practices and has increased the hiring of Shi'a citizens. In 2005 a Christian church with more than 1,000 members filed an application with the \"Ministry of Social Development\" to form a second parish. The diocese assigned a temporary priest to serve members of the second parish; however, he only stayed 4 months, due to visa restrictions. The new parish applied for a three-year resident visa for a permanent priest. By the close of the reporting period, government officials still had not notified church leaders of a final decision on the request to allow a second parish or to grant a resident visa for a permanent priest. Further requests by church officials for information went unanswered. There were no reports of religious prisoners or detainees in the country.\n\nIn February 2011, the tensions between the Sunni ruling minority and the Shi'a majority spilled over into street protests which was violently suppressed by police forces, resulting in multiple civilian deaths. McClatchy Newspapers/csmonitor.com reported that as of mid-May 2011, Authorities have held secret trials where protesters have been sentenced to death, arrested prominent mainstream opposition politicians, jailed nurses and doctors who treated injured protesters, seized the health care system that had been run primarily by Shiites, fired 1,000 Shiite professionals and canceled their pensions, detained students and teachers who took part in the protests, beat and arrested journalists, and forced the closure of the only opposition newspaper. \n\nUnnamed U.S. officials interviewed by McClatchy expressed concern over \"vindictive\" Sunni leadership in Bahrain and stated that the Obama administration was \"deeply worried about Bahrain's rapid downward spiral.\"\n\nBahrain has no history of engaging in forced religious conversion. Foreign nationals as well as local minorities are able to practice their religion without interference from the government or other religious groups.\n\nEven though the small Jewish community has been safe from attacks and vandalism. While some anti-Zionist political commentary and editorial cartoons appeared, usually linked to the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, outside of a political context the Jewish minority is fully respected and allowed to operate freely. Jewish people in Bahrain regularly practice their faith privately without interference from the Government. In 2008 Bahrain named Houda Ezra Ebrahim Nonoo, a Jewish female lawmaker, ambassador to the United States.\n\nParliamentary and municipal elections were conducted in November and December 2006. Candidates associated with religion-based political societies won 32 of the 40 seats in the Council of Representatives. During the elections, candidates from religious political groups conducted their campaigns without any interference from the Government. There was one Jewish member and one Christian member of the 40-member upper house of Parliament, the Shura Council, whose members were appointed in December 2006 by the King, following elections for the lower house. The Christian member was chosen by her colleagues to be the second deputy speaker for the Shura Council and is also one of the country's four representatives to the Arab Parliament. There was one Christian municipal council candidate in the elections, but he was defeated. In April 2007 the \"Bahrain Businesswomen Society\" initiated a public awareness campaign on family law by sponsoring a panel discussion, the first public event on the topic for several months. The issue was not raised in any significant way during the November/December 2006 elections, despite an awareness campaign by the Supreme Council for Women in the fall of 2005 and seminars by civil society groups, which highlighted the need for a family law. This was followed by public debate and rallies both in favor of and against such a law. During the reporting period, members of the Awali Community Church visited Christian prison inmates approximately monthly, to provide clothing and Christian literature and messages from their home. Members of other churches also made periodic visits to Christian prison inmates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "446888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=446888", "title": "George MacLeod", "text": "George MacLeod\n\nGeorge Fielden MacLeod, Baron MacLeod of Fuinary, (17 June 1895 – 27 June 1991) was a Scottish soldier and clergyman; he was one of the best known, most influential and unconventional Church of Scotland ministers of the 20th century. He was the founder of the Iona Community at the island of Iona.\n\nHe was born in Glasgow in 1895. His father (Sir John MacLeod) was a successful businessman before entering politics as a Unionist MP; his mother Edith was from a wealthy Lancastrian family (owning cotton mills). From this background and heir to a baronetcy, George MacLeod was educated at Winchester College and Oriel College, Oxford. His paternal grandfather was the highly respected Revd Norman MacLeod of the Barony Church, Glasgow, a Moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland and Chaplain to Queen Victoria.\n\nUpon the outbreak of World War I in 1914, MacLeod joined the Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders, rising to the rank of Captain. He first saw active service in Greece. After falling ill with dysentery, he was sent back to Scotland to recuperate, after which he was posted to Flanders. He saw action at Ypres and Passchendaele, for which he was awarded the Military Cross (MC) and the French Croix de Guerre for bravery.\n\nHis experience of this total war profoundly affected MacLeod, leading him to train for the ministry. He studied divinity at the University of Edinburgh, followed by a year at Union Theological Seminary, New York City (1921-1922). Upon return to Scotland he was invited to become Assistant at St Giles' Cathedral. During this period he became increasingly concerned over the issue of social inequality in Scotland. In 1924 he was ordained as a Church of Scotland minister, to be Padre of Toc H (Talbot House) in Scotland. Such non-parochial appointments were extremely unusual at the time. Following a disagreement, he resigned from Toc H in 1926, but was invited to become associate minister at St Cuthbert's Church, Edinburgh.\n\nHis wartime experiences, combined with a profound disillusionment by post-World War I political rhetoric of \"a land fit for heroes,\" deeply affected him. Confronted by the realities of the depression and unemployment faced by those less privileged than he, MacLeod gradually moved towards supporting socialism and pacifism. From 1937 he became actively involved with the Peace Pledge Union (PPU), and from 1958 with the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament (CND).\n\nMeanwhile, in 1930, to considerable surprise, he decided to leave St Cuthbert's Church to become minister at Govan Old Parish Church—encountering the considerable social problems caused by poverty in this part of Glasgow. The pace of work took its toll and in 1932 he suffered a breakdown. He spent some time recuperating in Jerusalem in early 1933. While worshipping in an Eastern Orthodox Church on Easter Day he felt a profound spiritual experience, feeling a sense of recovery of the Church as the corporate Body of Christ. This would strongly influence the rest of his life.\n\nHe resigned (giving up the financial security of a parish minister's stipend) to become the full-time leader of the Iona Community, which he founded in 1938. The idea of rebuilding Iona Abbey using ministers, students and unemployed labourers working together influenced his thinking; the Iona Community developed as an international ecumenical community, with offices in Govan and a presence on the Isle of Iona. Underpinning the fellowship of the Community were four emphases: mission, political involvement, a ministry of healing, and worship, by which MacLeod and the Community sought a way to connect the Church with an industrial age. He led a series of parish missions (sometimes known as a 'Message of Friendship') in Scottish parishes associated with the Community, and supported the 1950 Glasgow Churches' Campaign and the 1950s Tell Scotland Movement. However, he opposed the invitation promoted by Rev. Tom Allan to Dr Billy Graham that led to the 1955 All-Scotland Crusade.\n\nDuring World War II, he served as locum minister at Canongate Kirk in Edinburgh—a parish also then afflicted by poverty.\n\nIn 1948 (aged 53) he married Lorna; immediately after the wedding they travelled to Australia for a preaching tour. The 1940s and early 1950s were a difficult period professionally. MacLeod was involved in what became known as the \"Govan Case.\" He was invited by the congregation to return to Govan Old Parish Church in 1948, but the Presbytery of Glasgow refused to approve his appointment, given his wish to continue his active leadership of the Iona Community. The case was referred to the General Assembly; ultimately he was refused permission to combine the two posts.\n\nDespite a feeling of hurt and rejection over the \"Govan Case\", MacLeod remained one of the highest-profile figures in the Church of Scotland. In 1957 he was elected Moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland, following one Commissioner standing up and asking whether it was appropriate that a man who had been described as being \"half way to Rome and half way to Moscow\" should be Moderator.\n\nIn 1967 MacLeod was awarded a peerage, becoming Baron MacLeod of Fuinary, of Fuinary in Morven in the County of Argyll – the only Church of Scotland minister to have been thus honoured. He later became the first peer to represent the Green Party.\n\nGeorge MacLeod's influence on the Church of Scotland was considerable. His initial emphasis on parish mission was generally welcomed and favourably compared to the campaigns of his contemporary, D.P. Thomson. Although dismissed by some as a maverick, he helped to raise awareness of pacificism, ecumenism and social justice issues, and inspired many to become involved with such questions. Through the creation of the Iona Community, he was a pioneer of new forms of ministry (outside more conventional parish or chaplaincy structures).\n\n"}
{"id": "8928069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8928069", "title": "Get Born Again", "text": "Get Born Again\n\n\"Get Born Again\" is a song by the American rock band Alice in Chains and, along with \"Died\", one of the last two songs recorded with vocalist Layne Staley before his death in 2002. The song was released as the lead single from the compilation \"\" (1999) on June 1, 1999. It peaked at No. 4 on the \"Billboard\" Mainstream Rock Tracks chart, and at No. 12 on the Modern Rock Tracks chart. \"Get Born Again\" was nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Hard Rock Performance in 2000. The song was also included on the compilation albums \"Music Bank\" (1999) and \"The Essential Alice in Chains\" (2006).\n\nThe music was written by guitarist Jerry Cantrell for what would eventually become his second solo album, \"Degradation Trip\". However, after he showed the song to Alice in Chains vocalist Layne Staley, Staley decided to write lyrics to the song, and it was eventually recorded with Alice in Chains in 1998. \n\nIn interview with radio program Rockline in 1999, Staley stated that the song is based around \"religious hypocrisy\". \n\nIn the liner notes of 1999's \"Music Bank\" box set collection, Jerry Cantrell said of the song: \nAlso of note was Staley's condition while recording the song which was made known by \"Dirt\" producer Dave Jerden—who was originally chosen by the band for the production—who said \"Staley weighed eighty pounds...and was white as a ghost.\" Cantrell refused to comment on the singer's appearance, simply replying \"I'd rather not comment on that…\", and band manager Susan Silver said she hadn't seen the singer since \"last year\".\n\n\"Get Born Again\" was released to radio stations on June 1, 1999. The single peaked at number four on the \"Billboard\" Mainstream Rock Tracks chart, and at number 12 on the \"Billboard\" Modern Rock Tracks chart. The song was nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Hard Rock Performance in 2000. \n\nThe song is sometimes credited with being one of the band's most bleak singles. James Hunter of \"Rolling Stone\" described the song as \"a drone lifted by ominous chorales, hardened by slashing guitars and set off with Layne Staley intoning, 'Just repeat a couple lies.'\"\n\nThe music video for \"Get Born Again\" was released in 1999 and was directed by Paul Fedor. The video shows a disfigured insane scientist trying to duplicate his own version of the band. Footage of Staley, Cantrell, and drummer Sean Kinney was pulled from the \"Sea of Sorrow\" video and bassist Mike Inez from the \"What the Hell Have I\" video. The video is available on the home video release \n\n\n"}
{"id": "43538464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43538464", "title": "Herbert Lockyer", "text": "Herbert Lockyer\n\nHerbert Lockyer (1886–1984) was a minister and best-selling author of over 50 books, including the 21-volume \"All\" series. He was educated at Glasgow Bible Institute, afterwards receiving honorary degrees at Northwestern Evangelical Seminary, and the International Academy in London. He was most influential, however, after crossing the Atlantic to preach and write in the United States.\n\nDr. Lockyer was invited to preach at the 50th anniversary of the opening of the Moody Bible Institute, and this began his ministry in the United States. In the 1930s, the Institute published a number of his sermons, and Zondervan soon began to do the same. Dr. Lockyer also became influential in the Keswick Higher Life movement, ministering and publishing on both sides of the Atlantic. In his later life, his ministry was entirely focused on publishing, and his son, Herbert Lockyer, Jr., became his editor.\n\nBilly Graham wrote, \"Dr. Lockyer was unquestionably one of the spiritual giants of our century, and his prolific writings will continue to make an impact on countless Christians for generations to come if our Lord tarries.\"\n\nLockyer wrote the Introduction to the Zondervan reprint edition of \"Ellicott's\" \"Commentary on the Whole Bible\", (1959 and 1981) which he begins by saying, \"As I journey back through almost half a century of Christian witness, of the many books that helped to shape my ministry, none has been so eagerly consulted as the volumes comprising Ellicott's \"Bible Commentary for English Readers\", now known as 'Ellicott's Commentary on the Whole Bible.' This valuable eight-volume set is conspicuous among Commentaries for its adherence to the divine inspiration of Holy Scripture; it's conservative approach to foundational truths; its comprehensive treatment of books, chapters and verses.\"\n\nThe following is an incomplete list of Herbert Lockyer's published books. Many of his sermons were also published in pamphlet form, most of which are now out of print.\n"}
{"id": "3828146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3828146", "title": "Imperial cult of ancient Rome", "text": "Imperial cult of ancient Rome\n\nThe Imperial cult of ancient Rome identified emperors and some members of their families with the divinely sanctioned authority (\"auctoritas\") of the Roman State. Its framework was based on Roman and Greek precedents, and was formulated during the early Principate of Augustus. It was rapidly established throughout the Empire and its provinces, with marked local variations in its reception and expression.\n\nAugustus's reforms transformed Rome's Republican system of government to a \"de facto\" monarchy, couched in traditional Roman practices and Republican values. The \"princeps\" (later known as Emperor) was expected to balance the interests of the Roman military, Senate and people, and to maintain peace, security and prosperity throughout an ethnically diverse empire. The official offer of \"cultus\" to a living emperor acknowledged his office and rule as divinely approved and constitutional: his Principate should therefore demonstrate pious respect for traditional Republican deities and mores.\n\nA deceased emperor held worthy of the honor could be voted a state divinity (\"divus\", plural \"divi\") by the Senate and elevated as such in an act of apotheosis. The granting of apotheosis served religious, political and moral judgment on Imperial rulers and allowed living Emperors to associate themselves with a well-regarded lineage of Imperial \"divi\" from which unpopular or unworthy predecessors were excluded. This proved a useful instrument to Vespasian in his establishment of the Flavian Imperial Dynasty following the death of Nero and civil war, and to Septimius in his consolidation of the Severan dynasty after the assassination of Commodus.\n\nThe Imperial cult was inseparable from that of Rome's official deities, whose cult was essential to Rome's survival and whose neglect was therefore treasonous. Traditional cult was a focus of Imperial revivalist legislation under Decius and Diocletian. Christian apologists and martyrologists saw the cult of the Emperor as a particularly offensive instrument of pagan impiety and persecution. It therefore became a focus of theological and political debate during the ascendancy of Christianity under Constantine I. The emperor Julian failed to reverse the declining support for Rome's official religious practices: Theodosius I adopted Christianity as Rome's state religion. Rome's traditional gods and Imperial cult were officially abandoned. However, many of the rites, practices and status distinctions that characterized the cult to emperors were perpetuated in the theology and politics of the Christianized Empire.\n\nFor five centuries, the Roman Republic did not give worship to any historic figure, or any living man, although surrounded by divine and semi-divine monarchies. Rome's legendary kings had been its masters; with their removal, Republican Romans could identify Romulus, the founder of the city, with the god Quirinus and still retain Republican liberty. Similarly, Rome's ancestor-hero Aeneas was worshipped as Jupiter Indiges. The Romans worshipped several gods and demi-gods who had been human, and knew the theory that all the gods had originated as human beings, yet Republican traditions \"(mos maiorum)\" were staunchly conservative and anti-monarchic. The aristocrats who held almost all Roman magistracies, and thereby occupied almost all of the Senate, acknowledged no human as their inherent superior. No citizen, living or dead, was officially regarded as divine, but the honors awarded by the state — crowns, garlands, statues, thrones, processions — were also suitable to the gods, and tinged with divinity; indeed, when the emperors were later given state worship, it was done by a decree of the Senate, phrased like any other honor.\n\nAmong the highest of honors was the triumph. When a general was acclaimed \"imperator\" by his troops, the Senate would then choose whether to award him a triumph, a parade to the Capitol in which the \"triumphator\" displayed his captives and spoils of war in the company of his troops; by law, all were unarmed. The triumphator rode in a chariot, bearing divine emblems, in a manner supposed to be inherited from the ancient kings of Rome, and ended by dedicating his victory to Jupiter Capitolinus. Some scholars have viewed the triumphator as impersonating or even becoming a king or a god (or both) for the day but the circumstances of triumphal award and subsequent rites also functioned to limit his status. Whatever his personal ambitions, his victory and his triumph alike served the Roman Senate, people, and gods and were recognised only through their consent.\n\nIn private life, however, tradition required that some human beings be treated as more or less divine; cult was due from familial inferiors to their superiors. Every head of household embodied the \"genius\" – the generative principle and guardian spirit – of his ancestors, which others might worship and by which his family and slaves took oaths; his wife had a juno. A client could call his patron \"Jupiter on earth\". The dead, collectively and individually, were gods of the underworld or afterlife (\"dii manes\"). A letter has survived from Cornelia, the mother of the Gracchi, expecting that when she was dead, her sons would venerate her as \"deus parens\", a parental (or a nurturing) divinity; such piety was expected from any dutiful son.\n\nA prominent clan might claim divine influence and quasi-divine honors for its leader. Death masks (\"imagines\") were made for all notable Romans and were displayed in the \"atria\" of their houses; they were used to represent their ghostly presence at family funerals. The mask of Scipio Africanus, Cornelia's father and victor over Hannibal, was stored in the temple of Jupiter; his epitaph (by Ennius) said that he had ascended to Heaven. A tradition arose in the centuries after his death that Africanus had been inspired by prophetic dreams, and was himself the son of Jupiter.\n\nThere are several cases of unofficial cult directed at men viewed as saviors, military or political. In Further Spain in the 70s BC, loyalist Romans greeted the proconsul Metellus Pius as a savior, burning incense \"as if to a god\" for his efforts to quash the Lusitanian rebellion led by the Roman Sertorius, a member of the faction which called itself \"men of the People\" (\"populares\"). This celebration, in Spain, featured a lavish banquet with local and imported delicacies, and a mechanical statue of Victory to crown Metellus, who wore (extralegally) a triumphator's \"toga picta\" for the occasion. These festivities were organized by the quaestor Gaius Urbinus, but were not acts of the state. Metellus liked all this, but his older and pious (\"veteres et sanctos\") contemporaries thought it arrogant and intolerable. After the land reformers Tiberius and Gaius Gracchus were both murdered by their opponents, their supporters \"fell down\" and offered daily sacrifice at the statues of the Gracchi \"as though they were visiting the shrines of the gods\". After Gaius Marius defeated the Teutones, private citizens would offer food and drink to him alongside their household gods; he was called the third founder of Rome after Romulus and Camillus. In 86 BC, offerings of incense and wine were made at crossroad shrines to statues of the still-living Marius Gratidianus, the nephew of the elder Marius, who was wildly popular in his own right, in large part for monetary reforms that eased an economic crisis in Rome during his praetorship.\n\nWhen the Romans began to dominate large parts of the Greek world, Rome's senior representatives there were given the same divine honours as were Hellenistic rulers. This was a well-established method for Greek city-states to declare their allegiance to an outside power; such a cult committed the city to obey and respect the king as they obeyed and respected Apollo or any of the other gods.\n\nThe cities of Ionia worshipped the Spartan general Lysander, when he personally dominated Greece, immediately following the Peloponnesian War; according to Plutarch, this was the first instance of ruler cult in Greek history. There were similar instances of divine cult to humans in the same century, although some rulers, like Agesilaus, declined it. Clearchus, tyrant of Heraclea, dressed up like Zeus and claimed godhood; this did not stop the Heracleots from assassinating him. Isocrates said of Philip II of Macedon that after he conquered the Persian Empire, there would be nothing for him to attain but to become a god; the city of Amphipolis, and a private society at Athens, worshiped him even without this conquest; he himself set out his statue, dressed as a god, as the thirteenth of the Twelve Olympians.\n\nBut it was Philip's son Alexander the Great who made the divinity of kings standard practice among the Greeks. The Egyptians accepted him as Pharaoh, and therefore divine, after he drove the Persians out of Egypt; other nations received him as their traditional divine or quasi-divine ruler as he acquired them. In 324, he sent word to the Greek cities that they should also make him a god; they did so, with marked indifference – which did not stop them from rebelling when they heard of his death next year.\n\nHis immediate successors, the Diadochi, offered sacrifices to Alexander, and made themselves gods even before they claimed to be kings; they put their own portraits on the coinage, whereas the Greeks had always reserved this for a god or for an emblem of the city. When the Athenians allied with Demetrius Poliorcetes, eighteen years after the deification of Alexander, they lodged him in the Parthenon with Athena, and sang a hymn extolling him as a present god, who heard them, as the other gods did not.\n\nEuhemerus, a contemporary of Alexander, wrote a fictitious history of the world, which showed Zeus and the other established gods of Greece as mortal men, who had made themselves into gods in the same way; Ennius appears to have translated this into Latin some two centuries later, in Scipio Africanus' time.\n\nThe Ptolemies of Egypt and the Seleucids claimed godhood as long as they lasted; they may have been influenced in this by the Persian and Egyptian traditions of divine kings – although the Ptolemies had separate cults in Egyptian polytheism, as Pharaoh, and in the Greek. Not all Greek dynasties made the same claims; the descendants of Demetrius, who were kings of Macedon and dominated the mainland of Greece, did not claim godhead or worship Alexander (cf. Ptolemaic cult of Alexander the Great).\n\nThe Roman magistrates who conquered the Greek world were fitted into this tradition; games were set up in honor of M. Claudius Marcellus, when he conquered Sicily at the end of the Second Punic War, as the Olympian games were for Zeus; they were kept up for a century and a half until another Roman governor abolished them, to make way for his own honors. When T. Quinctius Flamininus extended Roman influence to Greece proper, temples were built for him and cities placed his portrait on their coinage; he called himself godlike (\"isotheos\") in an inscription at Delphi – but not in Latin, or at Rome. The Greeks also devised a goddess Roma, not worshipped at Rome, who was worshipped with Flamininus (their joint cult is attested in 195 BC); she would become a symbol of idealised \"romanitas\" in the later Roman provinces, and a continuing link, whereas a Marcellus or Flamininus might only hold power for a couple years.\n\nWhen King Prusias I of Bithynia was granted an interview by the Roman Senate, he prostrated himself and addressed them as \"Saviour Gods\", which would have been etiquette at his own court; Livy was shocked by Polybius' account of this, and insists that there is no Roman source it ever happened.\n\nWorship and temples appear to have been routinely offered by Greeks to their Roman governors, with varied reactions. Cicero declined a temple proposed by the city officials of Roman Asia to his brother and himself, while the latter was proconsul, to avoid jealousy from other Romans; when Cicero himself was Governor of Cilicia, he claimed to have accepted no statues, shrines, or chariots. His predecessor, Appius Claudius Pulcher, was so pleased, however, when the Cilicians built a temple to him that, when it was not finished at the end of Claudius' year in office, Claudius wrote Cicero to make sure it was done, and complaining that Cicero was not active enough in the matter.\n\nThe Romans and the Greeks gave religious reverence to and for human beings in ways that did not make the recipients gods; these made the first Greek apotheoses easier. Similar middle forms appeared as Augustus approached official divinity.\n\nThe Greeks did not consider the dead to be gods, but they did pay them homage, and give them sacrifices – using different rituals than those for the gods of Olympus. The Greeks called the extraordinary dead – founders of cities and the like – heroes; in the simplest form, hero cult was the burial and the memorials which any respectable Greek family gave their dead, but paid for by their City in perpetuity. Most heroes were the figures of ancient legend, but some were historical: the Athenians revered Harmodius and Aristogeiton as heroes, as saviours of Athens from tyranny; also, collectively, those who fell at the Battle of Marathon. Statesmen did not generally become heroes, but Sophocles was the hero Dexion (\"the Receiver\") – not as a playwright, nor a general, but because when the Athenians took Asclepius' cult during the Peloponnesian War, Sophocles housed an image of Asclepius until a shrine could be built. The Athenian leader Hagnon founded Amphipolis shortly before the Peloponnesian War; thirteen years later, while Hagnon was still alive, the Spartan general Brasidas liberated it from the Athenian empire, and was fatally wounded in the process. The Amphipolitans buried him as a hero, declaring him the second founder of the city, and erased Hagnon's honors as much as they could.\n\nThe Greeks also honored founders of cities while they were still alive, like Hagnon. This could also be extended to men who did equally important things; during the period when Dion ruled in Syracuse, the Syracusans gave him \"heroic honors\" for suppressing the tyrants, and repeated this for Timoleon; these could also be described as worshipping his good spirit (\"agathos daimon\", agathodaemon; every Greek had an agathodaemon, and the Greek equivalent of a toast was offered to one's agathodaemon). Timoleon was called \"savior\"; he set up a shrine to Fortune (\"Automatia\") in his house; and his birthday, the festival of his \"daimon\", became a public holiday.\n\nOther men might claim divine favor by having a patron among the gods; so Alcibiades may have had both Eros and Cybele as patrons; and Clearchus of Heraclea claimed to be \"son of Zeus\". Alexander claimed the patronage of Dionysus and other gods and heroes; he held a banquet at Bactra which combined the toast to his \"agathos daimon\" and libations to Dionysus, who was present within Alexander (and therefore the celebrants saluted Alexander rather than the hearth and altar, as they would have done for a toast).\n\nIt was not always easy to distinguish between heroic honors, veneration for a man's good spirit, worship of his patron deity, worship of the Fortune of a city he founded, and worship of the man himself. One might slide into another: In Egypt, there was a cult of Alexander as god and as founder of Alexandria; Ptolemy I Soter had a separate cult as founder of Ptolemais, which presumably worshipped his \"daimon\" and then gave him heroic honors, but in his son's reign, the priests of Alexander also worshipped Ptolemy and Berenice as the Savior Gods (\"theoi soteres\").\n\nFinally, a man might, like Philip II, assume some prerogatives of godhood and not others. The first Attalid kings of Pergamum, were not gods, and supported a cult of Dionysus Cathegemon, as their ancestor; they put the picture of Philetaerus, the first prince, on the coins, rather than their own. Eventually, like the Seleucids, they acquired an eponymous priest, and put themselves on the coinage; but they still were not called gods before their deaths. Pergamum was usually allied with Rome, and this may have influenced the eventual Roman practice.\n\nIn the last decades of the Roman Republic, its leaders regularly assumed extra-constitutional powers. The \"mos majorum\" had required that magistrates hold office collectively, and for short periods; there were two consuls; even colonies were founded by boards of three men; but these new leaders held power by themselves, and often for years.\n\nThe same men were often given extraordinary honors. Triumphs grew ever more splendid; Marius and Sulla, the rival leaders in Rome's first civil war, each founded cities, which they named after themselves; Sulla had annual games in his honor, at Rome itself, bearing his name; the unofficial worship of Marius is above. In the next generation, Pompey was allowed to wear his triumphal ornaments whenever he went to the Games at the Circus. Such men also claimed a special relationship to the gods: Sulla's patron was Venus Felix, and at the height of his power, he added Felix to his own name; his opponent Marius believed he had a destiny, and that no ordinary man might kill him. Pompey also claimed Venus' personal favour, and built her a temple. But the first Roman to become a god, as part of aiming at monarchy, was Julius Caesar.\n\nCaesar could claim personal ties to the gods, both by descent and by office. He was from the \"gens Julia\", whose members contended to be descended from Aeneas and his mother Venus. In his eulogy for his aunt Julia, Caesar also indirectly claimed to be descended from Ancus Marcius and the kings of Rome, and so from Mars. Moreover, when he was a teenager, Marius had named him \"flamen Dialis\", the special priest of Jupiter. Sulla had cancelled this appointment; however, relatively early in his career, Caesar had become pontifex maximus, the chief priest of Rome, who fulfilled most of the religious duties of the ancient kings. He had spent his twenties in the divine monarchies of the eastern Mediterranean, and was intimately familiar with Bithynia.\n\nCaesar made use of these connections in his rise to power, but not more than his rivals would have, or more than his other advantages. When he spoke at the funeral of his aunt Julia in 69 BC, Julius Caesar spoke of her descent from the Roman kings, and implied his own; but he also reminded his audience she had been Marius' wife, and (by implication) that he was one of the few surviving Marians.\n\nWhen, however, he defeated his rivals, in 45 BC, and assumed full personal control of the Roman state, he asserted more. During the Roman Civil War, since 49 BC, he had returned to the Eastern Mediterranean, where he had been called god and savior, and been familiar with the Ptolemaic Egyptian monarchy of Cleopatra, called \"Cleopatra Thea\" because of the weight she placed on her own divinity. Also, he had a new Senate to deal with. Most of the more resolute defenders of the Senate had joined with Pompey, and – one way or another – they were not sitting in the Senate. Caesar had replaced them with his own partisans, few of whom were committed to the old Roman methods; some of them were not even from Italy. It was rumoured that Caesar intended a despotic removal of power and wealth from Rome eastwards, perhaps to Alexandria or Ilium (Troy).\n\nDuring the Civil War, he had declared Venus his patron goddess: he vowed to erect a temple for \"Venus Victrix\" if she granted him the battle of Pharsalia, but he had built it, in 46 BC, to \"Venus Genetrix\", which epithet combined her aspects as his ancestress, the mother of the Roman people, and the goddess invoked in the philosophical poem \"De rerum natura\". The new Senate had also put up a statue of Caesar, with an inscription declaring him a demi-god, but he had it effaced, as not the claim he wished to make. Granted the same extension of rights to triumphal dress as Pompey had been given, Caesar took to wearing his triumphal head-wreath \"wherever and whenever\", excusing this as a cover for his baldness. He may also have publicly worn the red boots and the \"toga picta\" (\"painted\", purple toga) usually reserved to a triumphing general for the day of his triumph; a costume also associated with the \"rex sacrorum\" (the priestly \"king of the sacred rites\" of Rome's monarchic era, later the \"pontifex maximus\"), the \"Monte Albano\" kings, and possibly the statue of \"Jupiter Capitolinus\".\n\nWhen the news of his final victory, at the battle of Munda, reached Rome, the Parilia, the games commemorating the founding of the city, were to be held the next day; they were rededicated to Caesar, as if he were founder. Statues were set up to \"Caesar's Liberty\", and to Caesar himself, as \"unconquered god.\" He was accorded a house at public expense which was built like a temple; his image was paraded with those of the gods; his portrait was put on the coins (the first time a living man had appeared on Roman coinage). Early in 44 BC, he was called \"parens patriae\" (father of the fatherland); legal oaths were taken by his Genius; his birthday was made a public festival; the month Quinctilis was renamed July, in his honor (as June was named for Juno). At last a special priest, a flamen, was ordained for him; the first was to be Marc Antony, Caesar's adjutant, then consul. To be served by a flamen would rank Caesar not only as divine, but as an equal of Quirinus, Jupiter, and Mars. In Cicero's hostile account, the living Caesar's honours in Rome were already and unambiguously those of a full-blown god (\"deus\").\n\nCaesar's name as a living divinity – not as yet ratified by senatorial vote – was \"Divus Julius\" (or perhaps \"Jupiter Julius\"); \"divus\", at that time, was a slightly archaic form of \"deus\", suitable for poetry, implying some association with the bright heavens. A statue of him was erected next to the statues of Rome's ancient kings: with this, he seemed set to make himself King of Rome, in the Hellenistic style, as soon as he came back from the expedition to Parthia he was planning; but \"friends\" in the Senate killed him on 15 March 44 BC.\n\nAn angry, grief-stricken crowd gathered in the Roman Forum to see his corpse and hear Mark Antony's funeral oration. Antony appealed to Caesar's divinity and vowed vengeance on his killers. A fervent popular cult to \"divus Julius\" followed. It was forcefully suppressed but the Senate soon succumbed to Caesarian pressure and confirmed Caesar as a \"divus\" of the Roman state. A comet interpreted as Caesar's soul in heaven was named the \"Julian star\" (\"sidus Iulium\") and in 42 BC, with the \"full consent of the Senate and people of Rome\", Caesar's young heir, his great-nephew Octavian, held ceremonial apotheosis for his adoptive father. In 40 BC Antony took up his appointment as \"flamen\" of the \"divus Julius\". Provincial cult centres (\"caesarea\") to the \"divus\" Julius were founded in Caesarian colonies such as Corinth. Antony's loyalty to his late patron did not extend to Caesar's heir: but in the last significant act of the long-drawn civil war, on 1 August 31 BC, Octavian defeated Antony at Actium.\n\nIn 30/29 BC, the \"koina\" of Asia and Bithynia requested permission to worship Octavian as their \"deliverer\" or \"saviour\". This was by no means a novel request but it placed Octavian in a difficult position. He must satisfy popularist and traditionalist expectations and these could be notoriously incompatible. Marius Gratidianus's popular support and cult had ended in his public and spectacular death in 82 BC, at the hands of his enemies in the Senate; likewise Caesar's murder now marked an hubristic connection between living divinity and death. Octavian had to respect the overtures of his Eastern allies, acknowledge the nature and intent of Hellenic honours and formalise his own pre-eminence among any possible rivals: he must also avoid a potentially fatal identification in Rome as a monarchic-deistic aspirant. It was decided that cult honours to him could be jointly offered to \"dea Roma\", at cult centres to be built at Pergamum and Nicomedia. Provincials who were also Roman citizens were not to worship the living emperor, but might worship \"dea Roma\" and the \"divus Julius\" at precincts in Ephesus and Nicaea.\n\nIn 29 BC Octavian dedicated the temple of the \"divus Julius\" at the site of Caesar's cremation. Not only had he dutifully, legally and officially honoured his adoptive father as a \"divus\" of the Roman state. He \"had come into being\" through the Julian star and was therefore the \"divi filius\" (son of the divinity). But where Caesar had failed, Octavian had succeeded: he had restored the \"pax deorum\" (divinely ordained peace) and re-founded Rome through \"August augury\". In 27 BC he was voted – and accepted – the elevated title of \"Augustus\".\n\nAugustus appeared to claim nothing for himself, and innovate nothing: even the cult to the \"divus\" Julius had a respectable antecedent in the traditional cult to \"di parentes\". His unique – and still traditional – position within the Senate as \"princeps\" or \"primus inter pares\" (first among equals) offered a curb to the ambitions and rivalries that had led to the recent civil wars. As censor and \"pontifex maximus\" he was morally obliged to renew the \"mos maiores\" by the will of the gods and the \"Senate and People of Rome\" (\"senatus populusque romanus\"). As tribune he encouraged generous public spending, and as \"princeps\" of the Senate he discouraged ambitious extravagance. He disbanded the remnants of the civil war armies to form new legions and a personal imperial guard (the Praetorian Guard): the patricians who still clung to the upper echelons of political, military and priestly power were gradually replaced from a vast, Empire-wide reserve of ambitious and talented equestrians. For the first time, senatorial status became heritable.\n\nOrdinary citizens could circumvent the complex, hierarchic bureaucracy of the State, and appeal directly to the emperor, as if to a private citizen. The emperor's name and image were ubiquitous – on state coinage and on the streets, within and upon the temples of the gods, and particularly in the courts and offices of the civil and military administration. Oaths were sworn in his name, with his image as witness. His official \"res gestae\" (achievements) included his repair of 82 temples in 28 BC alone, the founding or repair of 14 others in Rome during his lifetime and the overhauling or foundation of civic amenities including a new road, water supplies, Senate house and theatres. Above all, his god-given military pre-eminence had brought an enduring and sacred peace, which earned him the permanent title of \"imperator\" and made the triumph an Imperial privilege. He seems to have managed all this within due process of law through a combination of personal brio, cheerfully veiled threats and self-deprecation as \"just another senator\".\n\nIn Rome, it was enough that the office, munificence, \"auctoritas\" and \"gens\" of Augustus were identified with every possible legal, religious and social institution of the city. Should \"foreigners\" or private citizens wish to honour him as something more, that was their prerogative, within moderation; his acknowledgment of their loyalty demonstrated his own moral responsibility and generosity; \"his\" Imperial revenue funded temples, amphitheatres, theatres, baths, festivals and government. This unitary principle laid the foundations for what is now known as \"Imperial cult\", which would be expressed in many different forms and emphases throughout the multicultural Empire.\n\nIn the Eastern provinces, cultural precedent ensured a rapid and geographically widespread dissemination of cult, extending as far as the Augustan military settlement at modern-day Najran. Considered as a whole, these provinces present the Empire's broadest and most complex syntheses of imperial and native cult, funded through private and public initiatives and ranging from the god-like honours due a living patron to what Harland (2003) interprets as privately funded communal mystery rites. The Greek cities of Roman Asia competed for the privilege of building high-status Imperial cult centres (neocorates). Ephesus and Sardis, ancient rivals, had two apiece until the early 3rd century AD, when Ephesus was allowed an additional temple, to the reigning emperor Caracalla. When he died, the city lost its brief, celebrated advantage through a religious technicality.\n\nThe Eastern provinces offer some of the clearest material evidence for the imperial \"domus\" and \"familia\" as official models of divine virtue and moral propriety. Centres including Pergamum, Lesbos and Cyprus offered cult honours to Augustus and the Empress Livia: the Cypriot Calendar honoured the entire Augustan \"familia\" by dedicating a month each (and presumably cult practise) to imperial family members, their ancestral deities and some of the major gods of the Romano-Greek pantheon. Coin evidence links \"Thea\" Livia with Hera and Demeter, and Julia the Elder with Venus Genetrix (Aphrodite). In Athens, Livia and Julia shared cult honour with Hestia (equivalent to Vesta), and the name of Gaius was linked to Ares (Mars). These Eastern connections were made within Augustus' lifetime – Livia was not officially consecrated in Rome until some time after her death. Eastern Imperial cult had a life of its own.\n\nThe Western provinces were only recently \"Latinised\" following Caesar's Gallic Wars and most fell outside the Graeco-Roman cultural ambit. There were exceptions: Polybius mentions a past benefactor of New Carthage in Republican Iberia \"said to have been offered divine honours\". In 74 BC, Roman citizens in Iberia burned incense to Metellus Pius as \"more than mortal\" in hope of his victory against Sertorius. Otherwise, the West offered no native traditions of monarchic divinity or political parallels to the Greek \"koina\" to absorb the Imperial cult as a romanising agency. The Western provincial \"concilia\" emerged as direct creations of the imperial cult, which recruited existing local military, political and religious traditions to a Roman model. This required only the willingness of barbarian elites to \"Romanise\" themselves and their communities.\nThe first known Western regional cults to Augustus were established with his permission around 19 BC in north-western (\"Celtic\") Spain and named \"arae sestianae\" after their military founder, L. Sestius Quirinalis Albinianus. Soon after, in either 12 BC or 10 BC, the first provincial imperial cult centre in the West was founded at Lugdunum by Drusus, as a focus for his new tripartite administrative division of Gallia Comata. Lugdunum set the type for official Western cult as a form of Roman-provincial identity, parceled into the establishment of military-administrative centres. These were strategically located within the unstable, \"barbarian\" Western provinces of the new Principate and inaugurated by military commanders who were – in all but one instance – members of the imperial family.\n\nThe first priest of the Ara (altar) at Lugdunum's great Imperial cult complex was Caius Julius Vercondaridubnus, a Gaul of the provincial elite, given Roman citizenship and entitled by his priestly office to participate in the local government of his provincial \"concilium\". Though not leading to senatorial status, and almost certainly an annually elected office (unlike the traditional lifetime priesthoods of Roman \"flamines\"), priesthood in imperial provinces thus offered a provincial equivalent to the traditional Roman \"cursus honorum\". The rejection of cult spurned \"romanitas\", priesthood and citizenship; in 9 AD Segimundus, imperial cult priest of what would later be known as Colonia Claudia Ara Agrippinensium (sited at modern Cologne in Germany) cast off or destroyed his priestly regalia to join the rebellion of his kinsman Arminius.\n\nIn the early Principate, an altar inscribed \"Marazgu Aug(usto) Sac(rum)\" (\"Dedicated to Marazgu Augustus\"), identifies a local Ancient Libyan (Berber) deity with the supreme power of Augustus. In the senatorial province of Africa Proconsularis, altars to the \"Dii Magifie Augusti\" attest (according to Potter) a deity who was simultaneously local and universal, rather than one whose local identity was subsumed or absorbed by an Imperial \"divus\" or deity.\nTwo temples are attested to Roma and the divus Augustus – one dedicated under Tiberius at Leptis Magna, and another (Julio-Claudian) at Mactar. A third at Carthage was dedicated to the \"Gens Augusta\" in the very early empire.\n\nEven as he prepared his adopted son Tiberius for the role of \"princeps\" and recommended him to the Senate as a worthy successor, Augustus seems to have doubted the propriety of dynastic \"imperium\"; this, however, was probably his only feasible course. When Augustus died, he was voted a \"divus\" by the Senate, and his body was cremated in a sumptuous funeral; his soul was said to have ascended to the heavens, to join his adoptive father among the Olympians; his ashes were deposited in the Imperial Mausoleum, which tactfully identified him (and later, his descendants) by his Imperial names, rather than as \"divus\". After Augustus, the only new cults to Roman officials are those connected to the Imperial household.\nOn his death, the senate debated and passed a \"lex de imperio\" which voted Tiberius \"princeps\" through his \"proven merit in office\", and awarded him the honorific \"Augustus\" as name and title.\n\nTiberius accepted his position and title as emperor with apparent reluctance. Though he proved a capable and efficient administrator, he could not match his predecessor's extraordinary energy and charisma. Roman historians described him as morose and mistrustful. With a self-deprecation that may have been entirely genuine, he encouraged the cult to his father, and discouraged his own. After much wrangling, he allowed a single temple in Smyrna to himself and the \"genius\" of the Senate in 26 AD; eleven cities had competed – with some vehemence and even violence – for the honour. His lack of personal \"auctoritas\" allowed increasing praetorian influence over the Imperial house, the senate and through it, the state. In 31 AD, his praetorian prefect Sejanus – by now a virtual co-ruler – was implicated in the death of Tiberius' son and heir apparent Drusus, and was executed as a public enemy. In Umbria, the Imperial cult priest (\"sevir Augustalis\") memorialised \"the providence of Tiberius Caesar Augustus, born for the eternity of the Roman name, upon the removal of that most pernicious enemy of the Roman people\". In Crete, thanks were given to \"the \"numen\" and foresight of Tiberius Caesar Augustus and the Senate\" in foiling the conspiracy – but at his death, the senate and his heir Caligula chose not to officially deify him.\n\nCaligula's rule exposed the legal and moral contradictions of the Augustan \"Republic\". To legalise his succession, the Senate was compelled to constitutionally define his role, but the rites and sacrifices to the living \"genius\" of the emperor already acknowledged his constitutionally unlimited powers. The \"princeps\" played the role of \"primus inter pares\" only through personal self-restraint and decorum. It became evident that Caligula had little of either. He seems to have taken the cult of his own \"genius\" very seriously, and is said to have enjoyed acting the god – or rather, several of them. However, his infamous and oft-cited impersonations of major deities may represent no more than his priesthood of their cults, a desire to shock and a penchant for triumphal dress or simply mental illness. Whatever his plans, there is no evidence for his official cult as a living \"divus\" in Rome or his replacement of state gods, and none for major deviations or innovations in his provincial cult. His reported sexual relations with his sister Drusilla and her deification after death aroused scorn from later historians; after Caligula's death, her cult was simply allowed to fade. His reported compulsion of priesthood fees from unwilling senators are marks of private cult and personal humiliations among the elite. Caligula's fatal offense was to willfully \"insult or offend everyone who mattered\", including the senior military officers who assassinated him. The histories of his reign highlight his wayward impiety. Perhaps not only his: in 40 AD the Senate decreed that the \"emperor should sit on a high platform even in the very senate house\". Claudius (his successor and uncle) intervened to limit the damage to the imperial house and those who had conspired against it, and had Caligula's public statues discreetly removed.\nClaudius was chosen emperor by Caligula's praetorians and consolidated his position with cash payments (\"donativa\") to the military. The senate were forced to ratify the choice and accept the affront. Claudius adopted the cognomen Caesar, deified Augustus' wife, Livia, 13 years after her death and in 42 AD was granted the title \"pater patriae\" (father of the fatherland) but relations between emperor and Senate seem to have been irreparable. Claudius showed none of Caligula's excesses. He seems to have entirely refused a cult to his own \"genius\": but the offer of cult simultaneously acknowledged the high status of those empowered to grant it and the extraordinary status of the \"princeps\" – Claudius' repeated refusals may have been interpreted as offensive to Senate, provincials and the imperial office itself. He further offended the traditional hierarchy by promoting his own trusted freedmen as imperial procurators: those closest to the Emperor held high status through their proximity.\n\nIt has been assumed that he allowed a single temple for his cult in Britain, following his conquest there. The temple is certain – it was sited at Camulodunum (modern Colchester), the main \"colonia\" in the province, and was a focus of British wrath during the Boudiccan revolt of 60 AD. But cult to the living Claudius there is very unlikely: he had already refused Alexandrine cult honours as \"vulgar\" and impious and cult to living emperors was associated with \"arae\" (altars), not temples. The British worship offered him as a living \"divus\" is probably no more than a cruel literary judgment on his worth as emperor. Despite his evident respect for Republican norms he was not taken seriously by his own class, and in Seneca's fawning Neronian fiction, the Roman gods cannot take him seriously as a \"divus\" – the wild British might be more gullible. In reality, they proved resentful enough to rebel, though probably less against the Claudian \"divus\" than against brutal abuses and the financial burden represented by its temple.\n\nClaudius died in 54 AD and was deified by his adopted son and successor Nero. After an apparently magnificent funeral, the \"divus\" Claudius was given a temple on Rome's disreputable Mons Caelius. Fishwick remarks that \"the malicious humour of the site can hardly have been lost by those in the know... the location of Claudius' temple in Britain (the occasion for his \"pathetic triumph\") may be more of the same\".\n\nOnce in power, Nero allowed Claudius' cult to lapse, built his Domus Aurea over the unfinished temple, indulged his sybaritic and artistic inclinations and allowed the cult of his own \"genius\" as \"paterfamilias\" of the Roman people. Senatorial attitudes to him appear to have been largely negative. He was overthrown in a military coup, and his institutions of cult to his dead wife Poppaea and infant daughter Claudia Augusta were abandoned. Otherwise, he seems to have been a popular emperor, particularly in the Eastern provinces. Tacitus reports a senatorial proposal to dedicate a temple to Nero as a living \"divus\", taken as ominous because \"divine honours are not paid to an emperor till he has ceased to live among men\".\n\nNero's death saw the end of imperial tenure as a privilege of ancient Roman (patrician and senatorial) families. In a single chaotic year, power passed violently from one to another of four emperors. The first three promoted their own \"genius\" cult: the last two of these attempted Nero's restitution and promotion to \"divus\". The fourth, Vespasian – son of an equestrian from Reate – secured his Flavian dynasty through reversion to an Augustan form of principate and renewed the imperial cult of \"divus Julius\". Vespasian was respected for his \"restoration\" of Roman tradition and the Augustan modesty of his reign. He dedicated state cult to \"genio populi Romani\" (the \"genius\" of the Roman people), respected senatorial \"Republican\" values and repudiated Neronian practice by removing various festivals from the public calendars, which had (in Tacitus' unsparing assessment) become \"foully sullied by the flattery of the times\". He may have had the head of Nero's Colossus replaced or recut for its dedication (or rededication) to the sun god in 75 AD. Following the first Jewish Revolt and the destruction of the Temple in Jerusalem in 70 AD, he imposed the \"didrachmon\", formerly paid by Jews for their Temple's upkeep but now re-routed to Jupiter Capitolinus as victor over them \"and their God\". Jews who paid the tax were exempt from the cult to imperial state deities. Those who offered it however were ostracised from their own communities. Vespasian appears to have approached his own impending cult with dry humour – according to Suetonius, his last words were \"puto deus fio\" (\"I think I'm turning into a god\"). Vespasian's son Titus reigned for two successful years then died of natural causes. He was deified and replaced by his younger brother, Domitian.\n\nWithin two weeks of accession, Domitian had restored the cult of the ruling emperor's \"genius\". He remains a controversial figure, described as one of the very few emperors to scandalously style himself a living \"divus\", as evidenced by the use of \"master and god\" (\"dominus et deus\") in imperial documents. However, there are no records of Domitian's personal use of the title, its use in official address or cult to him, its presence on his coinage or in the Arval Acts relating to his state cult. It occurs only in his later reign and was almost certainly initiated and used by his own procurators (who in the Claudian tradition were also his freedmen). Like any other \"paterfamilias\" and patron, Domitian was \"master and god\" to his extended \"familia\", including his slaves, freedmen and clients. Pliny's descriptions of sacrifice to Domitian on the Capitol are consistent with the entirely unremarkable \"private and informal\" rites accorded to living emperors. Domitian was a traditionalist, severe and repressive but respected by the military and the general populace. He admired Augustus and may have sought to emulate him, but made the same tactless error as Caligula in treating the Senate as clients and inferiors, rather than as the fictive equals required by Augustan ideology. His assassination was planned and implemented from within his court, and his name officially but rather unsystematically erased from inscriptions.\n\nThe Senate chose the elderly, childless and apparently reluctant Nerva as emperor. Nerva had long-standing family and consular connections with the Julio-Claudian and Flavian families, but proved a dangerously mild and indecisive \"princeps\": he was persuaded to abdicate in favour of Trajan. Pliny the Younger's panegyric of 100 AD claims the visible restoration of senatorial authority and dignity throughout the empire under Trajan, but while he praises the emperor's modesty, Pliny does not disguise the precarious nature of this autocratic gift. Under Trajan's very capable civil and military leadership, the office of emperor was increasingly interpreted as an earthly viceregency of the divine order. He would prove an enduring model for Roman imperial virtues.\n\nThe Emperor Hadrian's Hispano-Roman origins and marked pro-Hellenism changed the focus of imperial cult. His standard coinage still identifies with the \"genius populi Romani\", but other issues stress his identification with \"Hercules Gaditanus\" (Hercules of Gades), and Rome's imperial protection of Greek civilisation. Commemorative coinage shows him \"raising up\" provincial deities (thus elevating and \"restoring\" the provinces); he promoted Sagalassos in Greek Pisidia as the Empire's leading Imperial cult centre and in 131–2 AD he sponsored the exclusively Greek \"Panhellenion\". He was said to have \"wept like a woman\" at the death of his young companion Antinous, and arranged his apotheosis. Dio claims that Hadrian was held to ridicule for this emotional indulgence, particularly as he had delayed the apotheosis of his own sister Paulina after her death.\nThe cult of Antinous would prove one of remarkable longevity and devotion, particularly in the Eastern provinces. Bithynia, as his birthplace, featured his image on coinage as late as the reign of Caracalla (r. 211–217). His popular cult appears to have thrived well into the 4th century, when he became the \"whipping boy of pagan worship\" in Christian polemic. Vout (2007) remarks his humble origins, untimely death and \"resurrection\" as \"theos\", and his identification – and sometimes misidentification by later scholarship – with the images and religious functions of Apollo, Dionysius/Bacchus, and later, Osiris. In Rome itself he was also \"theos\" on two of three surviving inscriptions but was more closely associated with hero-cult, which allowed direct appeals for his intercession with \"higher gods\". Hadrian imposed the imperial cult to himself and Jupiter in Judaea following the Bar Kokhba revolt. He was predeceased by his wife Vibia Sabina. Both were deified but Hadrian's case had to be pleaded by his successor Antoninus Pius.\n\nMarcus Aurelius' tutor Fronto offers the best evidence of imperial portraiture as a near-ubiquitous feature of private and public life. Though evidence for private emperor worship is as sparse in this era as in all others, Fronto's letters imply the \"genius\" cult of the living emperor as an official, domestic and personal practice, probably more common than cult to the \"divi\" in this and other periods.\n\nMarcus' son Commodus succumbed to the lures of self-indulgence, easy populism and rule by favourites. He described his reign as a \"golden age\", and himself as a new Romulus and \"re-founder\" of Rome, but was deeply antagonistic toward the Senate – he reversed the standard \"Republican\" imperial formula to \"populus senatusque romanus\" (the people and senate of Rome). He increasingly identified himself with the demigod Hercules in statuary, temples and in the arena, where he liked to entertain as a \"bestiarius\" in the morning and a gladiator in the afternoon. In the last year of his life he was voted the official title \"Romanus Hercules\"; the state cult to Hercules acknowledged him as heroic, a divinity or semi-divinity (but not a \"divus\") who had once been mortal. Commodus may have intended declaring himself as a living god some time before his murder on the last day of 192 AD.\n\nThe Nervan-Antonine dynasty ended in chaos. The senate declared \"damnatio memoriae\" on Commodus, whose urban prefect Pertinax was declared Emperor by the Praetorian Guard in return for the promise of very large donatives. Pertinax had risen through equestrian ranks by military talent and administrative efficiency to become senator, consul and finally and briefly Emperor; he was murdered by his Praetorians for attempting to cap their pay. Pertinax was replaced by Didius Julianus, who had promised cash to the Praetorians and restoration of power to the Senate. Julianus began his reign with an ill-judged appeal to the memory of Commodus, a much resented attempt to bribe the populace \"en masse\" and the use of Praetorian force against them. In protest, a defiant urban crowd occupied the senatorial seats at the \"Circus Maximus\". Against a background of civil war among competing claimants in the provinces, Septimius Severus emerged as a likely victor. The Senate soon voted for the death of Julianus, the deification of Pertinax and the elevation of Septimius as Emperor. Only a year had passed since the death of Commodus.\n\n\"Sit divus dum non sit vivus\" (let him be a \"divus\" as long as he is not alive). \"Attributed to Caracalla, before murdering his co-emperor and brother Geta.\"\n\nIn 193 AD, Septimius Severus triumphally entered Rome and gave apotheosis to Pertinax. He cancelled the Senate's \"damnatio memoriae\" of Commodus, deified him as a \"frater\" (brother) and thereby adopted Marcus Aurelius as his own ancestor through an act of filial piety. Severan coin images further re-enforced Septimius' association with prestigious Antonine dynasts and the \"genius populi Romani\".\n\nSeptimius' reign represents a watershed in relations between Senate, Emperors, and the military. Senatorial consent defined divine \"imperium\" as a Republican permission for the benefit of the Roman people, and apotheosis was a statement of senatorial powers. Where Vespasian had secured his position with appeals to the \"genius\" of the Senate and Augustan tradition, Septimius overrode the customary preferment of senators to senior military office. He increased plebeian privilege in Rome, stationed a loyal garrison there and selected his own commanders. He paid personal attention to the provinces, as sources of revenue, military manpower and unrest. Following his defeat of his rival Clodius Albinus at Lugdunum, he re-founded and reformed its imperial cult centre: \"dea Roma\" was removed from the altar and confined to the temple along with the deified Augusti. Fishwick interprets the obligatory new rites as those due any \"paterfamilias\" from his inferiors. Septimius' own patron deities, Melqart/Hercules and Liber/Bacchus, took pride of place with himself and his two sons at the Saecular Games of 204 AD. Septimius died of natural causes in 211 AD at Eboracum (modern York) while on campaign in Britannia, after leaving the Empire equally to Caracalla and his older brother Geta, along with advice to \"be harmonious, enrich the soldiers, and scorn all other men.\"\n\nBy 212 AD, Caracalla had murdered Geta, pronounced his \"damnatio memoriae\" and issued the \"Constitutio Antoniniana\": this gave full Roman citizenship to all free inhabitants of the Empire. and was couched as a generous invitation to celebrate the \"victory of the Roman people\" in foiling Geta's \"conspiracy\". In reality, Caracalla was faced by an endemic shortfall of cash and recruits. His \"gift\" was a far from popular move, as most of its recipients were \"humiliores\" of peasant status and occupation – approximately 90% of the total population. \"Humiliores\" they remained, but now liable to pay taxes, serve in the legions and adopt the name of their \"liberator\". Where other emperors had employed the \"mos maiorum\" of family obligation at the largely symbolic level of \"genius\" cult, Caracalla literally identified his personal survival with the state and \"his\" citizens. Caracalla inherited the devotion of his father's soldiery but his new citizens were not inclined to celebrate and his attempts to court popularity in Commodan style seem to have misfired. In Philostratus' estimation, his embrace of Empire foundered on his grudging, parochial mindset. He was assassinated in 217 AD, with the possible collusion of his praetorian prefect Macrinus.\n\nThe military hailed Macrinus as \"imperator\", and he arranged for the apotheosis of Caracalla. Aware of the impropriety of his unprecedented leap through the traditional \"cursus honorum\" from equestrian to Emperor, he respectfully sought senatorial approval for his \"self-nomination\". It was granted – the new emperor had a lawyer's approach to \"imperium\" but his foreign policy proved too cautious and placatory for the military. After little more than a year, he was murdered in a coup and replaced with an emperor of Syrian background and Severan descent, Varius Avitus Bassianus, more usually known by the Latinised name of his god and his priesthood, Elagabalus.\n\nThe 14-year-old emperor brought his solar-mountain deity from his native Emesa to Rome and into official imperial cult. In Syria, the cult of Elagabalus was popular and well established. In Rome, it was a foreign and (according to some ancient sources) disgusting Eastern novelty. In 220 AD, the priest Elagabalus replaced Jupiter with the god Elagabalus as \"sol invictus\" (the unconquered Sun) and thereafter neglected his Imperial role as \"pontifex maximus\". According to Marius Maximus, he ruled from his degenerate \"domus\" through prefects who included among others a charioteer, a locksmith, a barber, and a cook. At the very least, he appears to have been regarded as an unacceptably effete eccentric by the Senate and military alike. He was assassinated by the Praetorians at the age of 18, subjected to the fullest indignities of \"damnatio memoriae\" and replaced with his young cousin Alexander Severus, the last of his dynasty, who reigned for 13 years until killed in a mutiny.\n\n\"This section provides an overview of developments most relevant to cult: for a full listing of Emperors by name and date, see List of Roman Emperors.\"\n\nThe end of the Severan dynasty marked the breakdown of central \"imperium\". Against a background of economic hyperinflation and latterly, endemic plague, rival provincial claimants fought for supremacy and failing this, set up their own provincial Empires. Most Emperors seldom even saw Rome, and had only notional relationships with their senates. In the absence of coordinated Imperial military response, foreign peoples seized the opportunity for invasion and plunder.\n\nMaximinus Thrax (reigned 235–8 AD) sequestered the resources of state temples in Rome to pay his armies. The temples of the \"divi\" were first in line. It was an unwise move for his own posterity, as the grant or withholding of apotheosis remained an official judgment of Imperial worthiness, but the stripping of the temples of state gods caused far greater offense. Maximinus's actions more likely show need in extreme crisis than impiety, as he had his wife deified on her death but in a rare display of defiance the senate deified his murdered predecessor, then openly rebelled. His replacement, Claudius Gothicus, reigned briefly but successfully and was made a \"divus\" on his death. A succession of short-lived soldier-emperors followed. Further development in imperial cult appears to have stalled until Philip the Arab, who dedicated a statue to his father as divine in his home town of Philippopolis and brought the body of his young predecessor Gordian III to Rome for apotheosis. Coins of Philip show him in the radiate solar crown (suggestive of solar cult or a hellenised form of imperial monarchy), with Rome's temple to Venus and \"dea Roma\" on the reverse.\n\nIn 249 AD, Philip was succeeded (or murdered and usurped) by his praetorian prefect Decius, a traditionalist ex-consul and governor. After an accession of doubtful validity, Decius justified himself as rightful \"restorer and saviour\" of Empire and its \"religio\": early in his reign he issued a coin series of imperial \"divi\" in radiate (solar) crowns. Philip, the three Gordians, Pertinax and Claudius were omitted, presumably because Decius thought them unworthy of the honour. In the wake of religious riots in Egypt, he decreed that all subjects of the Empire must actively seek to benefit the state through witnessed and certified sacrifice to \"ancestral gods\" or suffer a penalty: sacrifice on Rome's bahalf by loyal subjects would define them and their gods as Roman. Only Jews were exempt from this obligation. The Decian edict required that refusal of sacrifice be tried and punished at proconsular level. Apostasy was sought, rather than capital punishment. A year after its due deadline, the edict was allowed to expire and shortly after this, Decius himself died.\n\nValerian (253–60) identified Christianity as the largest, most stubbornly self-interested of non-Roman cults, outlawed Christian assembly and urged Christians to sacrifice to Rome's traditional gods. His son and co-Augustus Gallienus, an initiate of the Eleusinian Mysteries, identified himself with traditional Roman gods and the virtue of military loyalty. Aurelian (270–75) appealed for harmony among his soldiers (\"concordia militum\"), stabilised the Empire and its borders and established an official, Hellenic form of unitary cult to the Palmyrene \"Sol Invictus\" in Rome's Campus Martius. The senate hailed him as \"restitutor orbis\" (restorer of the world) and \"deus et dominus natus\" (god and born ruler); he was murdered by his Praetorians. His immediate successors consolidated his achievements: coinage of Probus (276–82) shows him in radiate solar crown, and his prolific variety of coin types include issues showing the temple of Venus and \"Dea Roma\" in Rome.\n\nThese policies and preoccupations culminated in Diocletian's Tetrarchy: the empire was divided into Western and Eastern administrative blocs, each with an Augustus (senior emperor), helped by a Caesar (junior emperor) as Augustus-in-waiting. Provinces were divided and subdivided: their imperial bureaucracy became extraordinary in size, scope and attention to detail. Diocletian was a religious conservative. On his accession in AD 284, he held games in honour of the \"divus\" Antinous. Where his predecessors had attempted the persuasion and coercion of recalcitrant sects, Diocletian launched a series of ferocious reactions known in Church history as the Great Persecution. According to Lactantius, this began with a report of ominous haruspicy in Diocletian's \"domus\" and a subsequent (but undated) dictat of placatory sacrifice by the entire military. A date of 302 is regarded as likely and Eusebius also says the persecutions of Christians began in the army. However Maximilian's martyrdom (295) came from his refusal of military service, and Marcellus' (298) for renouncing his military oath. Legally, these were military insurrections and Diocletian's edict may have followed these and similar acts of conscience and faith. An unknown number of Christians appear to have suffered the extreme and exemplary punishments traditionally reserved for rebels and traitors.\n\nUnder Diocletian's expanded imperial \"collegia\", imperial honours distinguished both Augusti from their Caesares, and Diocletian (as senior Augustus) from his colleague Maximian. While the division of empire and \"imperium\" seemed to offer the possibility of a peaceful and well-prepared succession, its unity required the highest investiture of power and status in one man. An elaborate choreography of etiquette surrounded the approach to the imperial person and imperial progressions. The senior Augustus in particular was made a separate and unique being, accessible only through those closest to him.\nDiocletian's avowed conservatism almost certainly precludes a systematic design toward personal elevation as a \"divine monarch\". Rather, he formally elaborated imperial ceremony as a manifestation of the divine order of empire and elevated emperorship as the supreme instrument of the divine will. The idea was Augustan, or earlier, expressed most clearly in Stoic philosophy and the solar cult, especially under Aurelian. At the very beginning of his reign, before his Tetrarchy, Diocletian had adopted the \"\" of \"Jovius\"; his co-Augustus adopted the title \"Herculius\". During the Tetrarchy, such titles were multiplied, but with no clear reflection of implicit divine seniority: in one case, the divine \"signum\" of the Augustus is inferior to that of his Caesar. These divine associations may have followed a military precedent of emperors as \"comes\" to divinities (or divinities as \"comes\" to emperors). Moreover, the divine \"signum\" appears in the fairly narrow context of court panegyric and civil etiquette. It makes no appearance on the general coinage or stauary of the Tetrarchs, who are presented as impersonal, near-homogenous abstractions of imperial might and unity.\n\nThe Augustan settlement was promoted by its contemporary apologists as restorative and conservative rather than revolutionary. Official cult to the \"genius\" of the living princeps as \"first among equals\" recognised his exceptional powers, his capacity for self-restraint, and his pious respect for Republican traditions. \"Good\" emperors rejected offers of official cult as a living deity, and accepted the more modest honour of \"genius\" cult. Claims that later emperors sought and obtained divine honours in Rome reflect their bad relationship with their senates: in Tertullian's day, it was still \"a curse to name the emperor a god before his death\". On the other hand, to judge from the domestic ubiquity of the emperor's image, private cults to living emperors are as likely in Rome as elsewhere. As Gradel observes, no Roman was ever prosecuted for sacrificing to his emperor.\n\nThe \"divi\" had some form of precedent in the \"di parentes\", divine ancestors who received ancestral rites as \"manes\" (gods of the underworld) during the Parentalia and other important domestic festivals. Their powers were limited; deceased mortals not normally possess the divine power (\"numen\") of the higher gods. Deceased emperors did not automatically become \"divi\"; they must be nominated for the privilege. Their case was discussed by the senate, then put to the vote. As long as the correct rituals and sacrifice were offered, the \"divus\" would be received by the heavenly gods as a \"coelicola\" (a dweller in heaven), a lesser being than themselves. Popular belief held that the \"divus\" Augustus would be personally welcomed by Jupiter. In Seneca's \"Apocolocyntosis\", on the other hand, the unexpected arrival of the divinised Claudius creates a problem for the Olympians, who have no idea who or what he is; and when they find out, they cannot think what to do with him. Seneca's sarcastic wit, an unacceptable impiety towards a \"deus\", freely portrays the \"divus\" Claudius as just a dead, ridiculous and possibly quite bad emperor. Though their images were sacrosanct and their rites definitively divine \"divi\" could be created, unmade, reinstated or simply forgotten. Augustus and Trajan appear to have remained the ideals for longer than any, and cult to \"good\" \"divi\" appears to have lasted well into the late Imperial dominate.\n\nThe immense power of living emperors, on the other hand, was mediated through the encompassing agency of the state. Once acknowledged as \"paterfamilias\" to an Empire, a princeps was naturally entitled to \"genius\" cult from Imperial subjects of all classes. Cult to a living emperor's \"numen\" was quite another matter and might be interpreted as no less than a statement of divine monarchy. Imperial responses to the first overtures of cult to the August \"numen\" were therefore extremely cautious. Only much later, probably in consequence of the hyperinflation of honours to living Emperors, could a living emperor be openly, formally addressed as \"numen praesens\" (the numinous presence).\n\nThe obscure relationship between deus, divus and numen in Imperial cult might simply reflect its origins as a pragmatic, respectful and somewhat evasive Imperial solution using broad terminology whose meanings varied according to context. For Beard \"et al.\", a practicable and universal Roman cult of deified emperors and others of the Imperial house must have hinged on the paradox that a mortal might, like the semi-divine \"heroic\" figures of Hercules, Aeneas and Romulus, possess or acquire sufficient measure of \"numen\" to rise above their mortal condition and be in the company of the gods, yet remain mortal in the eyes of Roman traditionalists.\n\n\"Sacred offerings\" (\"sacrificium\") formed the contract of public and private \"religio\", from oaths of office, treaty and loyalty to business contracts and marriage. Participation in \"sacrificium\" acknowledged personal commitment to the broader community and its values, which under Decius became a compulsory observance. Livy believed that military and civil disasters were the consequence of error (\"vitium\") in augury, neglect of due and proper sacrifice and the impious proliferation of \"foreign\" cults and \"superstitio\". Religious law focused on the sacrificial requirements of particular deities on specific occasions.\n\nIn Julio-Claudian Rome, the Arval priesthood sacrificed to Roman state gods at various temples for the continued welfare of the Imperial family on their birthdays, accession anniversaries and to mark extraordinary events such as the quashing of conspiracy or revolt. On 3 January they consecrated the annual vows: sacrifice promised in the previous year was paid, as long as the gods had kept the Imperial family safe for the contracted time. If not, it could be withheld, as it was in the annual vow following the death of Trajan. In Pompeii, the \"genius\" of the living emperor was offered a bull: presumably a standard practice in Imperial cult at this time, though lesser offerings of wine, cakes and incense were also given, especially in the later Imperial era. The \"divi\" and \"genii\" were offered the same kind of sacrifice as the state gods, but cult officials seem to have offered Christians the possibility of sacrifice to emperors as the lesser act.\n\nBy ancient tradition, presiding magistrates sought divine opinion of proposed actions through an augur, who read the divine will through the observation of natural signs in the sacred space (\"templum\") of sacrifice. Magistrates could use their right of augury (\"ius augurum\") to adjourn and overturn the process of law, but were obliged to base their decision on the augur's observations and advice. For Cicero, this made the augur the most powerful authority in the Late Republic.\n\nIn the later Republic, augury came under the supervision of the college of \"pontifices\", a priestly-magistral office whose powers were increasingly woven into the \"cursus honorum\". The office of \"pontifex maximus\" eventually became a \"de facto\" consular office. When the consul Lepidus died, his office as \"pontifex maximus\" passed to Augustus, who took priestly control over the State oracles (including the Sibylline books), and used his powers as censor to suppress unapproved oracles. Octavian's honorific title of Augustus indicated his achievements as expressions of divine will: where the impiety of the Late Republic had provoked heavenly disorder and wrath \"(ira deorum)\", his obedience to divine ordinance brought divine peace \"(pax deorum)\".\n\nThe \"mos maiorum\" established the near-monarchic familial authority of the ordinary \"paterfamilias\" (\"the father of the family\" or the \"owner of the family estate\"), his obligations to family and community and his priestly duties to his \"lares\" and domestic \"penates\". His position was hereditary and dynastic, unlike the elected, time-limited offices of Republican magistrates. His family – and especially his slaves and freedmen – owed a reciprocal duty of cult to his \"genius\".\n\n\"Genius\" (pl. \"genii\") was the essential spirit and generative power – depicted as a serpent or as a perennial youth, often winged – within an individual and their clan (\"gens\", pl. \"gentes\"), such as the \"Julli\" (Julians) of Julius Caesar. A \"paterfamilias\" could confer his name, a measure of his \"genius\" and a role in his household rites, obligations and honours upon those he adopted. As Caesar's adopted heir, Octavian stood to inherit the \"genius\", heritable property and honours of his adoptive father in addition to those obtained through his own birth gens and efforts. The exceptionally potent \"genius\" of living emperors expressed the will of the gods through Imperial actions. In 30 BC, libation-offerings to the \"genius\" of Octavian (later Augustus) became a duty at public and private banquets, and from 12 BC, state oaths were sworn by the \"genius\" of the living emperor.\n\nThe Roman \"paterfamilias\" offered daily cult to his \"lares\" and \"penates\", and to his \"di parentes\"/\"divi parentes\", in domestic shrines and in the fires of the household hearth. As goddess of all hearths, including the ritual hearth of the State, Vesta connected the \"public\" and \"private\" duties of citizens. Her official cults were supervised by the \"pontifex maximus\" from a state-owned house near the temple of Vesta. When Augustus became \"pontifex maximus\" in 12 BC he gave the Vestals his own house on the Palatine. His \"penates\" remained there as its domestic deities, and were soon joined by his \"lares\". His gift therefore tied his domestic cult to the sanctified Vestals and Rome's sacred hearth and symbolically extended his \"domus\" to the state and its inhabitants. He also co-opted and promoted the traditional and predominantly plebeian Compitalia shrines and extended their festivals, whose Lares were known thereafter as Augusti.\n\nRome's citizen legionaries appear to have maintained their Marian traditions. They gave cult to Jupiter for the emperor's well-being and regular cult to State, local and personal divinities. Cult to the Imperial person and \"familia\" was generally offered on Imperial accessions, anniversaries and renewal of annual vows: a bust of the ruling emperor was kept in the legionary insignia shrine for the purpose, attended by a designated military \"imaginifer\". By the time of the early Severans, the legions offered cult to the state gods, the Imperial \"divi\", the current emperor's \"numen\", \"genius\" and \"domus\" (or \"familia\"), and special cult to the Empress as \"mother of the camp.\" At around this time, Mithraic cults became very popular with the military, and provided a basis for syncretic Imperial cult which absorbed Mithras into Solar and Stoic Monism as a focus of military \"concordia\" and loyalty.\n\nAn Imperial cult temple was known as a \"caesareum\" (Latin) or \"sebasteion\" (Greek). In Fishwick's analysis, cult to Roman state \"divi\" was associated with temples, and the \"genius\" cult to the living emperor with his altar. The emperor's image, and its siting within the temple complex, focused attention on his person and attributes, and his position in the divine and human hierarchies. Expenditure on the physical expression of Imperial cult was vast, and was only curbed by the Imperial crisis of the 3rd century. As far as is known, no new temples to state \"divi\" were built after the reign of Marcus Aurelius.\n\nThe Imperial \"divi\" and living \"genii\" appear to have been served by separate ceremonies and priesthoods. Emperors themselves could be priests of state gods, the \"divi\" and their own \"genius\" cult images. The latter practice illustrates the Imperial \"genius\" as innate to its holder but separable from him as a focus of respect and cult, formally consistent with cult to the personification of ideas and ideals such as Fortune (\"Fortuna\"), peace (\"Pax\") or victory (\"Victoria\") \"et al.\" in conjunction with the \"genius\" of the Emperor, Senate or Roman people; Julius Caesar had showed his affinity with the virtue of clemency (\"Clementia\"), a personal quality associated with his divine ancestor and patron goddess Venus. Priests typically and respectfully identified their function by manifesting the appearance and other properties of their \"deus\". The duties of Imperial priests were both religious and magistral: they included the provision of approved Imperial portraits, statues and sacrifice, the institution of regular calendrical cult and the inauguration of public works, Imperial games (state \"ludi\") and munera to authorised models. In effect, priests throughout the empire were responsible for re-creating, expounding and celebrating the extraordinary gifts, powers and charisma of emperors.\n\nAs part of his religious reforms, Augustus revived, subsidised and expanded the Compitalia games and priesthoods, dedicated to the Lares of the \"vici\" (neighbourhoods), to include cult to his own Lares (or to his \"genius\" as a popular benefactor). Thereafter, the Lares Compitales were known as Lares Augusti. Tiberius created a specialised priesthood, the Sodales Augustales, dedicated to the cult of the deceased, deified Augustus. This priestly office, and the connections between the Compitalia cults and the Imperial household, appear to have lasted for as long as the Imperial cult itself.\n\nGreek philosophies had significant influence in the development of Imperial cult. Stoic cosmologists saw history as an endless cycle of destruction and renewal, driven by \"fortuna\" (luck or fortune), \"fatum\" (fate) and \"logos\" (the universal divine principle). The same forces inevitably produced a \"sōtēr\" (saviour) who would transform the destructive and \"unnatural disorder\" of chaos and strife to \"pax\", \"fortuna\" and \"salus\" (peace, good fortune and well-being) and is thus identified with solar cults such as Apollo and Sol Invictus. Livy (in the early to mid 1st century BC), and Lucan (in the 1st century AD) interpreted the crisis of the late Republic as a destructive phase which led to religious and constitutional renewal by Augustus and his restoration of peace, good fortune and well-being to the Roman people. Augustus was a messianic figure who personally and rationally instigated a \"golden age\" – the \"pax Augusta\" – and was patron, priest and protege to a range of solar deities. The Imperial order was therefore not merely justified by appeals to the divine; it was an innately natural, benevolent and divine institution.\n\nThe Imperial cult tolerated and later included specific forms of pluralistic monism. For Imperial cult apologists, monotheists had no rational grounds for refusal, but imposition of cult was counter-productive. Jews presented a special case. Long before the civil war, Judaism had been tolerated in Rome by diplomatic treaty with Graeco-Judaean rulers. It was brought to prominence and scrutiny after Judaea's enrollment as a client kingdom in 63 BC. The following Jewish diaspora helped disperse early \"Judaic\" Christianity. Early Christians appear to have been regarded as a sub-sect of Judaism and as such were sporadically tolerated.\n\nJewish sources on Emperors, polytheistic cult and the meaning of Empire are fraught with interpretive difficulties. In Caligula's reign, Jews resisted the placing of Caligula's statue in their Temple, and pleaded that their offerings and prayers to Yahweh on his behalf amounted to compliance with his request for worship. According to Philo, Caligula was unimpressed because the offering was not made directly to him (whether to his \"genius\" or his \"numen\" is never made clear) but the statue was never installed. Philo does not challenge the Imperial cult itself: he commends the god-like honours given Augustus as \"the first and the greatest and the common benefactor\" but Caligula shames the Imperial tradition by acting \"like an Egyptian\". However, Philo is clearly pro-Roman: a major feature of the First Jewish Revolt (AD 66) was the ending of Jewish sacrifices to Rome and the Emperor and the defacement of imperial images.\n\nAfter the destruction of the Temple of Jerusalem (and most of the city) in the first Jewish revolt, Hadrian rebuilt both in Greek style, dedicated the rebuilt Temple (in Dio's account) to Jupiter, renamed Jerusalem Aelia Capitolina and sought a ban on circumcision as impious disfigurement. The ensuing Bar Kokhba revolt overwhelmed the Roman military occupation and destabilised much of the Empire. For almost three years, Judea was an independent state, led by the messianic commander Simon Bar Kokhba. Then it was obliterated by the Imperial armies and erased from the Roman map – Hadrian renamed it as Syria Palaestina. Christians described their persecution under Bar Kokhba. Jews described theirs in its aftermath. Jewish messianism retreated into abstraction, and a Jewish nation-state became an ideal. Christians were less inclined to identify with the Judaic roots of their religion: some actively repudiated them. Hadrian's restrictions on Judaism were later relaxed and Jewish exemption from the full obligations of Imperial cult proved a source of suspicion and resentment for Hellenists and Christians alike.\n\nTo pagan Romans a simple act of sacrifice, whether to ancestral gods under Decius or state gods under Diocletian, represented adherence to Roman tradition and loyalty to the pluralistic unity of Empire. Refusal was treason. Christians, however, identified \"Hellenistic honours\" as parodies of true worship. Under the reign of Nero or Domitian, according to Momigliano, the author of the Book of Revelation represented Rome as the \"Beast from the sea\", Judaeo-Roman elites as the \"Beast from the land\" and the \"charagma\" (official Roman stamp) as a sign of the Beast. Some Christian thinkers perceived divine providence in the timing of Christ's birth, at the very beginning of the Empire that brought peace and laid paths for the spread of the Gospels; Rome's destruction of Jerusalem and its Temple was interpreted as divine punishment of the Jews for their refusal of the Christ. With the abatement of persecution Jerome could acknowledge Empire as a bulwark against evil but insist that \"imperial honours\" were contrary to Christian teaching.\n\nAs \"pontifex maximus\" Constantine I favoured the \"Catholic Church of the Christians\" against the Donatists because:\n\nit is contrary to the divine law... that we should overlook such quarrels and contentions, whereby the Highest Divinity may perhaps be roused not only against the human race but also against myself, to whose care he has by his celestial will committed the government of all earthly things. \"Official letter from Constantine, dated AD 314.\"\nIn this change of Imperial formula Constantine acknowledged his responsibility to an earthly realm whose discord and conflict might arouse the \"ira deorum\"; he also recognised the power of the new Christian priestly hierarchy in determining what was auspicious or orthodox. Though unbaptised, Constantine had triumphed under the \"signum\" of the Christ (probably some form of Labarum as an adapted or re-interpreted legionary standard). He may have officially ended – or attempted to end – blood sacrifices to the \"genius\" of living emperors but his Imperial iconography and court ceremonial elevated him to superhuman status. Constantine's permission for a new cult temple to himself and his family in Umbria is extant: the cult \"should not be polluted by the deception of any contagious superstition\". At the First Council of Nicaea Constantine united and re-founded the empire under an absolute head of state by divine dispensation and was honoured as the first Christian Imperial \"divus\". On his death he was venerated and was held to have ascended to heaven. Philostorgius later criticised Christians who offered sacrifice at statues of the \"divus\" Constantine. His three sons re-divided their Imperial inheritance: Constantius II was an Arian – his brothers were Nicene.\n\nConstantine's nephew Julian, Rome's last non-Christian emperor, rejected the \"Galilean madness\" of his upbringing for a synthesis of neo-Platonism, Stoic asceticism and universal solar cult and actively fostered religious and cultural pluralism. His restored Augustan form of principate, with himself as \"primus inter pares\", ended with his death in 363, after which his reforms were reversed or abandoned. The Western emperor Gratian refused the office of \"pontifex maximus\" and, against the protests of the Senate, removed the altar of \"Victoria\" (Victory) from the Senate House and began the disestablishment of the Vestals. Theodosius I briefly re-united the Western and Eastern halves of the Empire, officially adopted Nicene Christianity as the Imperial religion and ended official support for all other creeds and cults. He refused to restore \"Victoria\" to the Senate House, extinguished Vesta's sacred fire and vacated her temple. Even so, he accepted address as a living divinity, comparable to Hercules and Jupiter, by his overwhelmingly pagan Senate. After his death the sundered Eastern and Western halves of Empire followed increasingly divergent paths: nevertheless both were Roman and both had emperors. Imperial ceremonial – notably the Imperial \"adventus\" or ceremony of arrival, which derived in greater part from the Triumph – was embedded within Roman culture, Church ceremony and the Gospels themselves.\n\nThe last Western \"divus\" was probably Libius Severus, who died in 465 AD. Very little is known about him. His Imperium was not recognised by his Eastern counterpart and he may have been a puppet-emperor of the Germanic general Ricimer. In the west, imperial authority was partly replaced by the spiritual supremacy and political influence of the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nIn the Eastern Empire, sworn adherence to Christian orthodoxy became a prerequisite of Imperial accession – Anastasius I signed a document attesting his obedience to orthodox doctrine and practice. He is the last emperor known to be consecrated as \"divus\" on his death (AD 518). The title appears to have been abandoned on grounds of its spiritual impropriety but the consecration of Eastern emperors continued: they held power through divine ordinance and their rule was the manifestation of sacred power on earth. The \"adventus\" and the veneration of the Imperial image continued to provide analogies for devotional representations (Icons) of the heavenly hierarchy and the rituals of the Orthodox Church.\n\nThe Roman Imperial cult is sometimes considered a deviation from Rome's traditional Republican values, a religiously insincere cult of personality which served Imperial propaganda. It drew its power and effect, however, from both religious traditions deeply engrained in Roman culture, such as the veneration of the \"genius\" of each individual and of the ancestral dead, and on forms of the Hellenistic ruler cult developed in the eastern provinces of the Empire.\n\nThe nature and function of Imperial cult remain contentious, not least because its Roman historians employed it equally as a topos for Imperial worth and Imperial hubris. It has been interpreted as an essentially foreign, Graeco-Eastern institution, imposed cautiously and with some difficulty upon a Latin-Western Roman culture in which the deification of rulers was constitutionally alien, if not obnoxious. In this viewpoint, the essentially servile and \"un-Roman\" Imperial cult was established at the expense of the traditional Roman ethics which had sustained the Republic. For Christians and secularists alike, the identification of mortal emperors with godhead represented the spiritual and moral bankruptcy of paganism which led to the triumph of Christianity as Rome's state religion.\n\nVery few modern historians would now support this point of view. Some – among them Beard \"et al.\" – find no distinct category of Imperial cult within the religio-political life of Empire: the Romans themselves used no such enveloping term. Cult to living or dead emperors was inseparable from Imperial state religion, which was inextricably interwoven with Roman identity and whose beliefs and practices were founded within the ancient commonality of Rome's social and domestic \"mos maiorum\". Descriptions of cult to emperors as a tool of \"Imperial propaganda\" or the less pejorative \"civil religion\" emerge from modern political thought and are of doubtful value: in Republican Rome, cult could be given to state gods, personal gods, triumphal generals, magnates, benefactors, patrons and the ordinary \"paterfamilias\" – living or dead. Cult to mortals was not an alien practise: it acknowledged their power, status and their bestowal of benefits. The Augustan settlement appealed directly to the Republican \"mos maiorum\" and under the principate, cult to emperors defined them as emperors.\n\nWith rare exceptions, the earliest institution of cult to emperors succeeded in providing a common focus of identity for Empire. It celebrated the charisma of Roman Imperial power and the meaning of Empire according to local interpretations of \"romanitas\", firstly an agency of transformation, then of stability. Cult to Imperial deities was associated with commonplace public ceremonies, celebrations of extraordinary splendour and unnumbered acts of private and personal devotion. The political usefulness of such an institution implies neither mechanical insincerity nor lack of questioning about its meaning and propriety: an Empire-wide, unifying cult would necessarily be open to a multitude of personal interpretations but its significance to ordinary Romans is almost entirely lost in the critical interpretations of a small number of philosophically literate, skeptical or antagonistic Romans and Greeks, whether Christian or Hellene. The decline of prosperity, security and unity of Empire was clearly accompanied by loss of faith in Rome's traditional gods and – at least in the West – in Roman emperors. For some Romans, this was caused by the neglect of traditional religious practices. For others – equally Roman – breakdown of empire was God's judgment on faithless or heretical Christians and hardened pagans alike.\n\nAs Roman society evolved, so did cult to emperors: both proved remarkably resilient and adaptable. Until its confrontation by fully developed Christian orthodoxy, \"Imperial cult\" needed no systematic or coherent theology. Its part in Rome's continued success was probably sufficient to justify, sanctify and \"explain\" it to most Romans. Confronted with crisis in Empire, Constantine matched the Augustan achievement by absorbing Christian monotheism into the Imperial hierarchy. Cult to emperors was not so much abolished or abandoned as transformed out of recognition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1187032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1187032", "title": "Islam in Mauritius", "text": "Islam in Mauritius\n\nMuslims constitute over 17.3 per cent of Mauritius population. Muslims of Mauritius are mostly of Indian descent. Large numbers of Muslims arrived to Mauritius during the British regime starting in 1834 as part of the large scale indentured labor force from India.\n\nMauritius became independent in 1968 and no official religion is defined in the constitution nor does any religion dominate. Christians make up about a third of the population; Hindus about half and Muslims most of the rest. Several religious groups including Muslim ones are recognized by parliamentary decree and receive state subsidies according to their percentage of the population.\n\nThe largest group of Muslims are the Sunnis, comprising around 80 per cent of the Muslims with sub-groups of Salafis, the Sufis, the Tawhidis and the Tabligh jamaat. Shias form a small community with the subgroups of Cocknies, who are believed to have arrived as boat builders from Cochin in India and Creole Lascars, who have intermarried with Cocknies or other communities.\n\nSome scholars believed that Muslims arrived in Mauritius with Dutch from Arabia as slaves, but the view has been disproved as the fellows with Dutch were most Arabian traders. Muslims arrived to Mauritius during the British regime starting from 1810. Large scale indentured slaves from India mostly from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Orissa, Bengal, Mumbai and Kolkota. There were a total of 450,000 immigrants during the period of 1835 to 1907 and after 1909, the immigration was stopped. They were sent from India for a period of five years after which they were returned. Till 1922, only 160,000 returned to India, while other settled down in Mauritius. There were a few families of wealthy Muslim traders from Gujarat who also settled along with majority poor working classes. The population of Muslims is rumoured to have been 33% (no reference) of the total population during 1835, 64% during 1861 (no reference), but allegedly reduced to less than 25% by 1909. Traditionally Sunnis remained a majority, while other groups like Sunni Shafia, Shia and Bohra formed around 20 per cent of the total Muslims in the country. Cocknies, Kodjas, Bohras and Aga-khanities are believed to have arrived in Maurtius during 1910 from East Africa. Tawheed ideology, which was commonly followed in Mauritius was replaced by Islamic Circle Religious Group which culled out religious practices from India. The trend was changed after the evolution of oil-rich Arab countries in the 1970s.\n\nThe largest group of Muslims are the Sunnis, comprising around 80 per cent of the population. Sunnis are divided among various factions such as the Salafis, the Sufis, the Tawhidis and the Tabligh jamaat. While the majority adheres to the Hanafi school of thoughts, there are other factions that follow the Shafe'i school of thought. There are also Muslims who follow Shi'ism. Meimons are a small aristocratic group, who control the Jummah Mosque in Port Louis. Shiaties form a small community of around 3 per cent of the total population. One of the subgroups are called Cocknies, who are believed to have arrived as boat builders from Cochin in India. Creole Lascars are a new subgroup, who have intermarried with Cocknies or other communities.\n\nWithin the Muslim community, there are three distinct ethnic groups that exist, notably the Memons and the Surtees (who are rich merchants who came from Kutch and Surat province of Gujarat in India), then the \"Hindi Calcattias\" who came to Mauritius as indentured labourer from Bihar. Creole is the most used language among Muslims other than Arabic and Urdu, while other languages spoken include Bhojpuri, and Gujarati.\n\nMauritius got independence during 1968 and there was no state religion in Mauritius defined in the constitution. The nation had no indigenous population nor any indigenous tribes or religion. The religious organizations present at the time of independence, namely, Roman Catholic Church, Church of England, Presbyterian Church, Seventh-day Adventist, Hindus and Muslims are recognized by parliamentary decree. The constitution and other laws protect freedom of religion. The groups recognized by the government before independence receive an annual sum for paying their adherents. The government allows overseas missionary groups to operate on a case-by-case basis, although there are no rules that prohibit proselytizing activities. The missionaries should obtain both residence permit and work permit to operate, which is provided for a maximum of three years, without any extension. There are lot of government holidays, most of which are religious indicating the heterogeneity of religions. As per the International Religious Freedom report of 2012 published by the United States Department of States, there were no incidence of religious abuses. The report also indicates other religions claim that Hindus have a majority in the government, while Hindus have sought a policy for anti-conversion.\n\nAs of 1965, there were 65 mosques in the country. The first purpose-built mosque in Mauritius is the Camp des Lascars Mosque in around 1805. It is now officially known as the Al-Aqsa Mosque. The Jummah Mosque in Port Louis was built in the 1850s and is described in the Ministry of Tourism's guide as one of the most beautiful religious buildings in Mauritius. All mosques are controlled by a board called \"waqf\", also a form of charitable organization. The Waqf Board in Mauritius was created in 1941 and it supervises the finances and administration of all the mosques. Each mosque has a manager named \"muttanwalli\", elected by a congregation. The board helps executing funerals, imparting education in \"madraasas\" and all Islamic ceremonies. Major holidays like Bakrid, Eid, Mawlid and, for the Shia only, Muharram are celebrated with floats in the major mosques in the country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55825238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55825238", "title": "Karam Chand Bachhawat", "text": "Karam Chand Bachhawat\n\nBikaner Vibhuti (distinguished; \"विभूति\"), Karam Chand Bachhawat (1542-1607) served as Dewan (1571–91), Prime Minister of Bikaner state in the former state of Rajputana (now Rajasthan). Karam Chand, the descendant of Bachhraj, was a brilliant administrator and a suave strategist in Bikaner and had a very good rapport with Emperor Akbar. In 1591, fearing danger to his life, he politely recuse himself from Raja Rai Singh and resigned. Later, on being invited by Emperor Akbar, he joined him as an important adviser at Lahore court.\n\nIf you look at history, it has always celebrated the lives of the kings or emperors of an era but carries very little information about the those supportive of them, who stood serving a purpose. Behind every king are unsung nobles, who acted as pillars of support. Karam Chand Bachhawat is one such person.\n\nKaram Chand Bachhawat belonged to Bachhawat gotra (sect) of Oswal community. The Bachhawats belong to the feudal aristocratic order of former states of Rajputana (Rajasthan), who faced many ups and downs of life. They were brave, and many sacrificed their lives fighting for the state against Muslim invaders. They were visionary administrators par excellence but at times suspected to be anti-state but pro-Mughal and pro-British regime. The members of this clan were associated with the administration of the state for generations. Among them many were independent rulers in Delwara state (former small kingdom near Udaipur). There were as many as five Prime Ministers of Jodhpur and Bikaner states from amongst the direct ancestors of Karam Chand. Later, in Mewar state, six of his descendants served as Prime Ministers, nine members were appointed as Kiledars (Governors of Forts; किलेदार) and more than 25 members of this clan served as Hakims (Administrators; हाकिम) in various districts of Mewar.\n\nThe Bachhawats, trace their origin from the Chauhan dynasty of Samrat Prithviraj Chauhan. The ancestors were Deora (देवड़ा) Chauhans, who ruled Delwara (a small kingdom near Udaipur) state, in 13th-14th century. The ruler of Delwara, Raja Sagar, a Deora Chauhan and a descendent of Rao Kirtipal of Jalore, was the progenitor of Bachhawats. Later, in 14th century, this clan embraced Jainism. Thus, the Bachhawat gotra in Oswal community was born. Since, for generations many of them were in the service of rulers (Maharajas & Maharanas), the Bachhawats also followed Vaishnavism being state religion, alongside Jainism.\n\nDuring mid-15th century, Bachhraj, a descendant of Raja Sagar, was invited by the Rao Jodha, the Chief of Mandore (मंडोर; later named Jodhpur) and was appointed Dewan (Prime Minister; दिवान). He was a brave warrior, an able administrator and a strategist. Rao Jodha, then, for the first time, allowed Bachhraj and other Oswals to take part in commanding armies. In 1465, Rao Bika, elder son of Rao Jodha, chose Bachhraj as his main follower, along with his uncle Rawal Kandhal and others, while proceeding to establish a new territory, later named Bikaner. Bachhraj was appointed as Dewan of the newly founded state of Bikaner. The descendants of Bachhraj came to be known as Bachhawat, which later became a distinctive clan (gotra) and an ethnic group. With the passage of time the influence of Bachhawats grew by leaps and bounds. Each descendant of this clan was appointed as Dewan of Bikaner. Although ancestors of Bachhawats were Kshatriyas (Deora Chauhans), they now belonged to Vaishya (Bania) caste; hence they understood military strategy better than any Kshatriya adviser as royal blood runs in them. They used their pen and sword with equal skill and impact.\n\nKaram Chand Bachhawatwas born in 1542 AD (VikramSamvat 1599, Paush vid 11; Indian lunar calendar). In 1571, Rao Kalyanmal, on demise of Karam Chand's father, Dewan Sangram Singh, a descendant of Bachhraj, was appointed Dewan of Bikaner. He was popular in Bikaner and had built a good rapport with Emperor Akbar Jalal-u-din (1556-1605). The royal family of Bikaner had marital relations with the Mughals. Daughter of Kalyanmal was married to Emperor Akbar in 1570 and later his son Rai Singh's daughter was married to prince Salim (later Emperor Jahangir). Thus, the ruling family of Bikaner was one among the chosen families from Rajputana, being part of marriage alliance arranged by Karam Chand. Neither event is alluded to in the ‘Kiyant’ but the facts are recorded by Ferishta (pages 234 and 260, Brigg's Translation). Thus, Kalyan's son Rai Singh, who succeeded him in 1573, was one of Akbar's most distinguished generals.\n\nIn 1571, while travelling with Prince Rai Singh from Bikaner to the court of Emperor Akbar at Lahore, the much-indebted Dewan Karam Chand, before his departure asked Rao Kalyanmal, \"My Lord, order me as you please\".\n\nRao Kalyanmal said that he has everything but want to fulfil the wishes of his ancestors. He said, \"“I want to perform Kamal Puja (prayers for departed souls of ancestors) sitting in the ‘gavaksh’ (balcony) of Jodhpur palace to fulfil the wishes of late Rao Bika”\".Karam Chand along with Rajkumar Rai Singh paid their obeisance to Emperor Akbar. Since Karam Chand enjoyed good equation with Akbar, he asked him for a favour for Rao Kalyanmal to perform puja at the Jodhpur palace. Since Jodhpur was under Akbar, the wishes were granted instantly. Thus, Rao Kalyanmal could fulfil the wishes of his ancestors and asked Karam Chand as to what he would like in return. Karam Chand politely said, \"“I have everything given by you. However, you may like to grant that during the four months of chaturmaas (monsoon) – teli (oilman), kumbhar (potter), kandoi (confectioner), etc to stop violence related work. Do not collect tax on ‘maal’ (goods), goats, sheep, etc”.\"Rao Kalyanmal accepted his wishes and granted four villages on stamped paper to Karam Chand. Since Karam Chand enjoyed good equation with Emperor Akbar, the rulers of Bikaner were among the most loyal adherents of the empire and held high ranks as Mansabdars of special order in the imperial court, like Raja Man Singh I of Amber (Jaipur). They served as military commanders in various Mughal campaigns all over the Indian sub-continent. Karam Chand fought alongside Raja Rai Singh to defeat Sultan of Gujarat. Emperor Akbar was mighty pleased with the strategist Dewan Karam Chand and asked him as to what he wished for. He replied, \"“I do not want anything for myself but want a grant of 52 parganas for my king”\".\n\nIn 1573, Rao Kalyanmal was succeeded by Rao Rai Singh. With the help of strategist Karam Chand, Rao Rai Singh expanded his kingdom and brought in lots of prosperity for Bikaner state. The kingdom of Rao Rai Singh extended up to Harappa in Sindh (Sindhu Desh) by defeating the forces of Balochis. At the behest of Karam Chand, the captured Baluchi prisoners of war were properly clothed, fed and returned to their homes, with dignity.\n\nThe valiant and brave king Rao Rai Singh of Bikaner was granted the title of Raja by Emperor Akbar. Karam Chand, who had deep concern for the environment and Jain traditions, had orders issued for stopping of fishing activities in Sutlej, Dek and Raavi rivers. He stopped felling of trees in the desert region. Raja Rai Singh also passed orders banning killing of animals during Paryushan (holy festival of Jains during monsoon).\n\nKaram Chand had three wives – Ajaib Devi, Jeeva Devi and Kapur Devi (Ajaibde, Jibade and Kapurde). He along with his family often travelled to Jain pilgrim centres – Shatrunjay, Girnar, Abu, etc. and gave away plenty of alms in charity. He was an able disciple of Acharya Jinachandra Suri.\n\nThe beginning years of the reign of Akbar proved to be of religious bigotry. It was at the behest of Akbar that the Jain temples of Sirohi were demolished. Karam Chand and the Jain followers, who patiently bore the brutality of Mughals, finally prevailed over Akbar for changing his policy.\n\nThe rare 1050 Jina images (Jain paintings) and sculptures (gold & brass) looted by Sultan Tursam Khan in 1576, from the shrines of Sirohi were kept with Emperor Akbar at Fatehpur Sikri. It was intended to melt the statues and extract the gold, but Akbar denied the permission and ordered them to be kept safely. It was at the behest of Karam Chand that Raja Rai Singh approached the Emperor and the statues were respectfully released in 1582. When the statues arrived at Bikaner, Karam Chand along with the Jain Acharyas and disciples organised a grand function to welcome these statues and installed them in the basement of Chintamani Mandir. From time to time on special occasions the basement is opened, and the statues worshipped as per Jain traditions in public. Such auspicious occasions in 20th century were in the year 1943, when Acharya Mani Sagar Suri Maharaj arrived in Bikaner, then in 1962, 1978, 2009 and now in November 2017. Perhaps, due to non-availability of regular puja and worship facilities for so many divine statues, they are stored in the basement even today.\nIn the Chintamani temple, the main ‘Chaturvinshti’ (24 statues) idol was badly damaged during the invasion by Kamaran, ruler of Lahore and brother of Emperor Humayun. The stone-plaque at the temple mentions that the renovation work was carried out by the Bachhawat descendants of Mantri Bachhraj, namely Mantri Var Singh.\n\nIn 1586, Karam Chand heard that Jain temples at Shatrunjay(Palitana) and other places in Saurashtra were being destroyed by Navarang Khan. Fearing destruction of Jain temples in the area, he immediately petitioned Akbar for the protection of Jain temples. Akbar at once issued a farmaan (stamped order) to Azam Khan of Gujarat to put Shatrunjay and other Jain temples in Saurashtra under the control of Karam Chand for their protection. Later, a Jain temple was constructed by Karam Chand at Palitana and his maternal home (nanihal) in Merata city in memory of his mother.\n\nIn 1586, Prince Salim (later Emperor Jahangir), son of Akbar and son-in-law of Rai Singh was blessed with a daughter under inauspicious planetary conditions. The advice of Shaikh Abul Fazal and other learned people was sought. In the end, Karam Chand and astrologers were consulted and special puja as per Jain philosophy was performed by Pontiff Bhanu Chandra to successfully ward off evil effects. Karam Chand presented Prince Salim with a precious pearl necklace worth 1300 gold mohars (coins). Emperor Akbar was mighty pleased with Karam Chand and he granted the honour to the ladies of Bachhawat family to wear gold in the foot. Till then this honour was reserved for only Sarang family of Oswal clan. The title of \"Mehta\" (a person engaged in important assignment; महत्त्वपूर्ण कार्यकर्ता) was also granted to him. All his direct descendants settled in Mewar use the title of Mehta. Karam Chand Bachhawat, a close friend and strategist of Emperor Akbar became a historical person and came to be known as the saviour of Jainism during medieval period.\n\nBoth Jain sources as well as Khayat of Dayaldas portray Raja Rai Singh as a very benevolent but extravagant personality. Judging from the marvellous liberality to bards (Charans and Bharats) with which the ‘Kiyant’ credits Rai Singh, he would appear to have had a great appreciation of poetry and every important circumstance of his life is attested by a ballad.\n\nAs Dewan of the state, Karam Chand had a guarded attitude in the interest of the state treasury and did not like this extravaganza on bards. Hence Karam Chand often protested to the king over the rewards. There can be no doubt, that the poets for the sake of the precedent and example have greatly exaggerated Rai Singh's liberality to him and others. Thus, it is stated that during his lifetime, Rai Singh gave away to Charans, Bharats and Brahmins 25 villages, 2000 elephants, 50000 horses and three and quarter crore of rupees in money.\n\nRaja Rai Singh was extremely angry person and believed in every gossip. He always took decisions in hurry and did not care about its consequences. He would brag and talk loud to conceal his mistakes. The bohemian between Raja Rai Singh and Dewan Karam Chand could not last long and very soon tensions surfaced in their relationship.\n\nTraditionally, on completion of Navratri festival, Dyadi Mata (Ashapura Mata; \"Kuldevi\" of Chauhans as Bachhawats are their descendants) is commonly worshipped by all castes in Rajasthan. Once, during later part of 16th century, when Karam Chand was engaged in the worshipping of Dyadi Mata, a disciple of Jain Muni, the \"Maharajsaab\" came to Bachhawat's Haveli for \"gochari\" (food and alms). Karam Chand felt disturbed, and told the disciple to convey to \"Maharajsaab\" to come later for \"gochari\". The \"Maharajsaab\" was displeased and through his spiritual powers, let Dyadi Mata's idol speak to Karam Chand\",\" \"You shall not worship me from now onwards. I shall not find any fault for doing so. I may be immersed in water. If your descendants remake a similar statue and purify (bathe) it in sawa mound of oil, the puja can recommence.\"It is believed, that \"Maharajsaab\" then had the gold statue, weighing sawa (1 ) mound (approx. 1500 kg) thrown into the well just outside the haveli in Maneck Chowk. Hence the \"Bachhawats\" and the members of this ethnic group do not worship Dyadi Mata (Kuldevi), from that day.\n\nFrom 1585 to 1594 Raja Rai Singh of Bikaner was employed in the Deccan by Emperor Akbar, where he was Mansabdar of Burhanpur. While Rai Singh is said to have kept the petty chiefs under control and to have governed his province well, the administration of Bikaner was totally with Karam Chand.\n\nThe royal family of Bikaner lived in the original small fortress built by Rao Bika, until Raja Rai Singh built a new fort called ‘Chintamani’. The ruins of the old fort can still be seen around the walled city, on Raati Ghati near Lakshmi Nathji temple. Whilst at Burhanpur he planned and ordered his minister, Karam Chand to begin the construction of present fine fort of Bikaner in 1588 on the site indicated by the good omens in Rao Bika's time. As Rai Singh was away, Karam Chand laid the foundation stone of Bikaner Fort in 1588 and supervised its construction up to 1591.\n\nRaja Rai Singh returned from his \"subah\" after nine years in 1594. In 1593, Emperor Akbar being mighty pleased with the military services and successful campaigns in Deccan and Gujarat by Raja Rai Singh, granted him with the jagirs of Junagarh (Saurashtra) and Burhanpur. To commemorate the glorious victories the new fort was renamed as Junagarh Fort. However, there is another version of story for renaming the fort. The fort was renamed as Junagarh, or ‘Old Fort’ in the early 20th century (1926) when the ruling family moved to newly built Lalgarh Palace outside the fort limits.\n\nCompleted in 1593, it is an impressive fort of Northern India famous for its magnificent architecture, design and decoration. This Fort, also known as Bikaner Fort, has withstood the ravages of time and has remained unconquered.\n\nCapt PW Powlett writes in ‘\"Gazetteer of Bikaner State\"’,\"“Karam Chand established control over the polity of Bikaner and influenced some princes as well. The frequent absence of Raja Rai Singh of Bikaner to discharge his duties as Mansabdar was used by Karam Chand to establish his contacts at the Mughal court. This increasing proximity to Emperor Akbar was distancing Karam Chand from his King. Karam Chand had a dominating personality and whose proactive attitude overshadowed Rai Singh. The honours conferred on Karam Chand by Emperor Akbar made Raja Rai Singh jealous”.\"One of the causes given by the historians is the breach of protocol. Karam Chand was a good chess player and the Emperor Akbar would often ask him to play chess, seated opposite him in the Mughal court, while his master and other Rajas stood by in humble attendance. This was naturally most galling to Rai Singh, who conceived hatred towards his servant and sought to eliminate him after his return home from Burhanpur.\n\nBy 1591 tension started building up between the Rai Singh and Karam Chand. Rai Singh discovered a conspiracy against his life. The differences between Raja Rai Singh and his son Prince Dalpat Singh, rompted later to reach Emperor's court. A conspiracy was hatched to dislodge Rai Singh from the \"gaddi\" (throne) of Bikaner. The prime mover behind the conspiracy was allegedly Karam Chand. It is also strange to say, notwithstanding the Raja's magnificent treatments of Brahmins and minstrel class, a Purohit (priest), a Bharat and a Charan also figure amongst the conspirators. The objective was to place Raja's eldest son Dalpat Singh or his brother Ram Singh on the throne\",\" thus Karam Chand monopolizing the power of the state. But the motive of the traitors failed. Karam Chand and his family, having received timely warning, escaped to Delhi, where they were well received at the court of Akbar.\n\nIt is further stated by Capt Powlet in Gazetteer of Bikaner State, \"“They were made the supreme authority of Emperor Akbar and acquainted him with Bikaner secrets, an offence still held in native states to be one of the most heinous possible\". \"But in other respects, Karam Chand was now able to be a thorn in the side of the Raja Rai Singh”\".Capt Powlett further clarifies, \"“It must be understood that these expressions are those of the writers of Kiyants”\". The Kiyants are written by Charans and Bharats, a clan of bards who compose poems and stories with the greatest of ease and keep alive the oral tradition. The stories are passed down from father to son. In a sense they are the early historians, and most were paid to do so.\n\nHowever, another version of this story from \"‘Karamchand Vansh-kavyam’\" by Jaysom states,“\"Raja Rai Singh turned against Karam Chand and wanted to take revenge. Sensing development of ill will of Raja Rai Singh towards himself, Dewan Karam Chand politely took permission to settle in Merta city along with his family members, to spend his time in the service of Parshvanath Swami and Shri Jindutt Surij at a nearby village of Phalodi. He was invited by Raja Man Singh of Amber (Jaipur), one of the famous 'Navaratnas' (the nine gems at the royal court of Akbar) and other kings but he refused as he had his singular loyalty towards Raja Rai Singh of Bikaner\"”.\n\nAround 1591, Emperor Akbar being aware of the talent and loyalty of Dewan Karam Chand sent a letter to invite him to his court at Lahore through Raja Rai Singh. On the orders of his king, Karam Chand left Merta for Lahore along with his aides. He visited Ajmer en route to seek blessings at the memorial (stupa) of his guru Dada sahib Shri Jindutt Suri. When at Lahore he was immediately called in by the Emperor Akbar for an audience, whereas, people would wait for days to have audience. The Emperor knew everything about him and reassured Karam Chand that his lost glory would be restored shortly.\n\nBhanwarlalNahata writes in his book ‘Mantri Karam Chand Bachhawat’,\"“Emperor Akbar appointed Dewan Karam Chand as Gajjadhikari (Head of State Council, Treasury &Stores). Emperor presented him with a hunting horse loaded with gold. He was also appointed as the Samrajyadhipati (Governor;\" स्म्राज्यधिपति\") of Toshampur (now in Haryana) with appropriate number of elephants, horses and foot soldiers”.\"It meant that all Kings and Mansabdars under Mughal Empire would have to first meet Dewan Karam Chand before calling on Emperor.\n\nDuring one of the meetings with the learned religious people, Akbar asked the pundits, \"\"Who was the most learned Jain philosopher?\" The pundits replied, \"Acharya Jinchandra Suri was one such person\". Emperor asked, \"Who is his disciple?\" The pundits replied, \"Dewan Karam Chand\"\".\n\nBhanwarlal Nahata of Prakrit Bharati Academy, Jaipur writes in his book ‘\"Mantri Karam Chand Bachhawat\"’ that Karam Chand was summoned and ordered to invite his guru maharaj as soon as possible. Accordingly, Acharya, who was then at Shatrunjay (Palitana, Saurashtra) reached Lahore after six months journey on foot, on 14 February 1592 along with 31 disciples on Eid day.\n\nThe Emperor, who was sitting in the balcony of the palace, came down to receive Acharya Jinchandra Suri and after exchanging pleasantries, he said, \"“I have asked you to come here all the way from Gujarat to benefit from your thoughts at the religious meetings\". \"I strongly believe in non-violence (ahimsa); therefore, you must visit my court to give audience, at least once every day so that there is spiritual awakening among my children\"”.Having received the patronage of the Emperor, Acharya soon became popular and was well received by one and all at Lahore. He stayed there for over a year till next monsoon.\n\nAkbar was greatly impressed by the scholastic qualities and character of the Acharya. He held several debates and discussions on religion and philosophy in his courts. Arguing with Jains, Akbar remained skeptical of their atheistic views on god and creation. Yet he became convinced by their philosophy of non-violence, vegetarianism and ended up deploring to eat all types of flesh. At the behest of Karam Chand, the Emperor also issued many imperial orders that were favorable for Jain interests, such as banning animal slaughter and stoppage of fishing. Jain authors also wrote about their experience at the Mughal court in Sanskrit texts that are still largely unknown to Mughal historians.\n\nJaysom notes in Karamchandra Vanshavali Prabandh, that Emperor Akbar, while in Lahore dealing with the Uzbeks had sought to subjugate the upper Indus valley to secure the frontier provinces. He sent an army to conquer Kashmir in the upper Indus basin. In 1585, Ali Shah surrendered immediately to the Mughals, but another of his sons, Yaqub, crowned himself as king, and led a stubborn resistance to Mughal armies.Finally, in June 1589, Akbar himself travelled from Lahore to Srinagar to receive the surrender of Yaqub and his rebel forces.\n\nOn another occasion in 1592, once again sensing trouble from rebels, Emperor Akbar then desired to go to Kashmir by boat through river Jhelum. He summoned Karam Chand and asked him to make necessary preparations for the journey. Later, Emperor called for Acharya Jinchandra Suri for his darshan (audience) before proceeding to Kashmir. He told Karam Chand to ensure that Acharya stays put comfortably in Lahore during his absence so that inter-religious spiritual discourses, kindness, mercy to all living beings (ahimsa) and protection of cows to continue in his empire. Accordingly, Emperor issued farmaans (orders) to his eleven subas to follow the instructions on ahimsa. Many kings and sultans, to please the Emperor, also issued orders to protect living beings on certain days in their kingdom.\n\nAkbar asked Karam Chand and Vachak Mahimraj Man Singh, the senior Jain preacher & story teller, to accompany him to Kashmir. Karam Chand made elaborate arrangements, such as tents, logistics, also vegetarian food cooked by Brahmin, a mahatma and tantric to accompany the entourage for warding off any evil en route, etc.\n\nAkbar, stopped en-route at Rohtaspur with his entourage. During this second visit he reached Kashmir on 7 October 1592 by boat. The great Moghul enjoyed the saffron blossom at Pampore and celebrated the festival of Diwali. On this occasion the boats on the banks of river Jhelum and the roofs of the houses in Srinagar were illuminated at the Emperor's command.\n\nHowever, sensing trouble from the rebels, Karam Chand, the most trustworthy and gallant official was dispatched for the protection of imperial Anantnag at the behest of Emperor. Karam Chand faced stiff resistance but successfully captured the rebels without any bloodshed.\n\nIn 1605, the Emperor Akbar died. Karam Chand Vanshho-KirtankamKavyam (1594) by Jaysom observes,\n\n\"“On the accession of Jahangir as Emperor of India, Raja Rai Singh went to Delhi. He also called on ailing Karam Chand to wish him good health and apologise for the past. He also expressed his condolences on demise of Akbar and wept profusely in front of Karam Chand\"”.After Raja Rai Singh went away, Karam Chand called his sons, Bhag Chand and Lakshmi Chand. He praised Raja Rai Singh but at the same time cautioned them that these were crocodile tears and not of love and affection. He said,“\"Raja Rai Singh is happy that I shall shortly pass away and regretted that he was unable to take revenge of the past. My dear children! Don’t you make a mistake of ever returning to Bikaner\"”.He passed away at Delhi after Emperor Akbar's death between 1605 and 1607.\n\nCapt PW Powlett writes in ‘\"Gazetteer of Bikaner State’\",“\"It is interesting to note, whether Karam Chand’s presence at Mughal court was only due to his personal rapport with the Emperor Akbar or due to his linkages with the Jain religious circles close to Akbar. It is yet to be established whether he was kept at the court as a bulwark against the house of Bikaner to maintain a system of checks and balances. Thus, revenge was inevitable from Rai Singh and despite showing sympathy for the Bachhawat family he could not pursue Karam Chand or his sons to return to Bikaner. Thus, the hero of Jain tradition became the villain of the royal house of Bikaner and the Rajput traditions\"”.\"Bachhawat Karam Chand\" was a very cultured person and was indeed loyal to the king like his fore fathers. Later, Dewan Karam Chand Bachhawat, a close friend and strategist of Emperor Akbar became a historical person.\n\nCaptain Powlett writes in \"‘Gazetteer of Bikaner State’\", that immediately after the death of Karam Chand, Raja Rai Singh was again reappointed as the Mansabdar of Burhanpur. After a visit to Bikaner, he set off for Deccan with his son Sur Singh and governed there successfully for seven years. In 1612 he fell ill and Sur Singh seeing that his father's end was approaching, with folded hands asked for his last injunctions. Dying Raja Rai Singh said, “\"Bachhawats, the family of Karam Chand should be enticed to Bikaner that on them should be visited the sins of their father. The Purohit Man Mahesh and Bharat Chotji and the other conspirators such as Bharta Jat, associated with Karam Chand should receive the reward of their misdeeds\"”.Having exacted a promise that his wishes should be attended to, the Raja Rai Singh expired in 1612.\n\nDalpat ascended the throne of Bikaner in 1612. He earned the displeasure of Emperor at Delhi and that of his younger brother Sur Singh. Due to Dalpat's unpopularity that his nobles fell away from him and openly or secretly united with Sur Singh. Later, Sur Singh revolted against his elder brother Dalpat Singh and killed him along with his guards with the consent of Emperor Jahangir. Dalpat's wives at Bikaner were slaughtered and those at Bhatner became sati with Dalpat's turban in their hands.\n\nSur Singh ascended the throne of Bikaner in 1613. Around 1619, Raja Sur Singh went to Delhi to pay his obeisance to Emperor Jahangir, where he was restored 11 mansabs by the Emperor. He also called on Bhag Chand & Lakshmi Chand, sons of late Dewan Karam Chand. He took them in absolute confidence and invited them to Bikaner. He went so far as to dismiss his minister, to give the office to Lakshmi Chand and Bhag Chand. Both sons of Karam Chand did not remember their father's advice and started in good faith for Bikaner. They were appointed as Mantris very respectfully. Raja Sur Singh remained extra benevolent towards these brothers in the following months. He also accepted the invitation to visit the Bachhawat haveli, wherein the Bachhawat brothers gave a nazrana (offerings to king) of one lakh rupee and other gifts for the felicitation of the King. Jinsaar Suri Raas, written in 1623 mentions that around 1619 Acharya Jinsagar Suri was hosted at Bikaner by Mantri Dewan Bhag Chand and his nephew Manohar Das.\n\nThe Bachhawats thereupon were resettled in Bikaner but one fine morning at daybreak by treachery their quarters were surrounded by 4000 royal troops of Bikaner and they soon perceived that their destruction was intended. Though they belonged to one \"bania\" (trader) caste, they had, like many of their class who lived amongst and held office under Rajputs, imbibed much of the Rajput spirit and they resolved to die hard. At that time Bhag Chand was resting and his brother Lakshmi Chand and his son Manohar Das were at the Durbar. Lakshmi Chand's wife announced with both pride and anger, \n\n\"“The royal forces have surrounded our haveli. If I have your permission I shall adorn men’s uniform and show them my power”\".Upon which Bhag Chand refused permission and himself, after destroying their valuable jewels and sword in hand, fell upon the Rajputs of Rai Singh. The brave Bachhawats retaliated by their well-trained 500 guards. But the guards of Bachhawats could not withstand the mighty power of royal soldiers for a long. The wives of Karam Chand, Bhag Chand, Lakshmi Chand, Manohar Das and the other women of Bachhawat household killed themselves by jumping into the haveli well, whilst their men died fighting royal soldiers. Lakshmi Chand and Manohar Das who were in Durbar were killed there.\n\nIn Rangdi-ka-Chowk (formerly Maneck Chowk), opposite Bada Upasara there used to be a well owned by Bachhawats, which was later closed, and a platform built. Today, a ‘Hanuman Mandir stands tall on its side. This was the well, in which Bachhawat women jumped to protect their honour when troops of Sur Singh invaded their quarters.\n\nHowever, the Raja Sur Singh failed in totally exterminating the Bachhawats, since one pregnant lady, Mewariji, wife of Bhag Chand, was not allowed to sacrifice herself. She, with the assistance of a trusted servant Raghunath escaped to Karni Mata temple. As per convention the pregnant lady was granted safe passage to return to her father’s home at Udaipur. Mewariji was the daughter of Bhamashah, then Pradhan of Mewar state during Maharana Pratap’s time. Thus, Karam Chand and Bhamashah were related through marriage alliance between their son and daughter respectively.\n\nCapt PW Powlett writes in ‘\"Gazetteer of Bikaner State’\", \"“In the same year that the slaughter of the Bachhawats occurred, Sur Singh further carried out the dying behest of his father by confiscating the jagirs of the descendants of conspirators, Purohit Man Mahesh and Bharat Chotaji. Thereafter, these people came to Junagarh Fort and protested outside Karanpol and were intentionally not stopped from self-immolation during the protest. Another of those denounced by the late Raja Rai Singh, a Bharta Jat was also killed mercilessly”\".Mohammed Iqbal in his book ‘\"Bikaner Rajya ka Itihas – Kuch Anchue Pahelu\"’ notes that these events were heart breaking and were considered inauspicious for the state. In the act of showing regret and repentance for all the killings, Raja Sur Singh built a lake on the spot where self-immolation by Brahmins was carried out. The lake later came to be known as Sur Sagar. It is said that due to bad omen, the water of the lake from time to time gets mysteriously polluted by some underground water source and needs to be cleaned periodically.\n\n"}
{"id": "43643956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43643956", "title": "Kristeligt Dagblad", "text": "Kristeligt Dagblad\n\nKristeligt Dagblad is a Danish newspaper published in Copenhagen, Denmark.\n\n\"Kristeligt Dagblad\" was established in 1896. It was an initiative of the Lutheran Inner Mission created to oppose radicalism and atheism. The paper is owned by Kristeligt Dagblad A/S and is based in Copenhagen. It is published six times per week from Monday to Saturday.\n\nInitially \"Kristeligt Dagblad\" was an Evangelical newspaper. The paper was apolitical, publishing articles on religious and moral topics as well as on cultural topics. In 1909 it published anti-evolutionary articles, strongly opposing to the views of Charles Darwin. From 1914 the paper took a wider approach and in 1935 broke away from the Inner Mission, presenting general news but without any political association. It gained popularity under the leadership of Gunnar Helweg-Larsen, but lost ground in the 1950s. From 1950 it adopted a new approach, adopting a more lively style with more emphasis on foreign news. The paper does not have any sports section and covers sports-related news occasionally.\n\nThe editor of \"Kristeligt Dagblad\" is Erik Bjerager.\n\nIn 1908 \"Kristeligt Dagblad\" sold 8,000 copies. During the last six months of 1957 the paper had a circulation of 16,582 copies on weekdays.\n\nDuring the second half of 1997 the circulation of \"Kristeligt Dagblad\" was 16,000 copies on weekdays. The paper had a circulation of 25,000 copies in 2004 and 25,400 copies in 2005. The circulation of the paper was 25,143 copies in 2008 and 25,718 copies in 2009. It grew to 26,267 copies in 2010 and to 26,301 in 2011. The paper had a circulation of 26,000 copies a day in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "16437184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16437184", "title": "Kushwaha", "text": "Kushwaha\n\nKushwaha (sometimes, Kushvaha) is a community of the Indian subcontinent, which has traditionally been involved in agriculture (including beekeeping). The term has been used to represent at least four subcastes, being those of the Kachhis, Kachwahas, Koeris and Muraos. They claim descent from the mythological Suryavansh (Solar) dynasty via Kusha, who was one of the twin sons of Rama and Sita. Previously, they had worshipped Shiva and Shakta.\n\nWilliam Pinch notes their presence in Uttar Pradesh , Jharkhand and Bihar.\n\nToday, the Kushwaha generally claim descent from Kusha, a son of the mythological Rama, himself an avatar of Vishnu. This enables their claim to be of the Suryavansh dynasty but it is a myth of origin developed in the twentieth century. Prior to that time, the various branches that form the Kushwaha community - the Kachhis, Kachwahas, Koeris, and Muraos - favoured a connection with Shiva and Shakta. Ganga Prasad Gupta claimed in the 1920s that Kushwaha families worshiped Hanuman - described by Pinch as \"the embodiment of true devotion to Ram and Sita\" - during Kartika, a month in the Hindu lunar calendar.\n\nThe Kushwaha were traditionally a peasant community and considered to be of the stigmatised Shudra varna. Pinch describes them as \"skilled agriculturalists\". The traditional perception of Shudra status was increasingly challenged during the later decades of British Raj rule, although various castes had made claims of a higher status well before the British administration instituted its first census. Pinch describes that \"The concern with personal dignity, community identity, and caste status reached a peak among Kurmi, Yadav, and Kushvaha peasants in the first four decades of the twentieth century.\"\n\nFrom around 1910, the Kachhis and the Koeris, both of whom for much of the preceding century had close links with the British as a consequence of their favoured role in the cultivation of the opium poppy, began to identify themselves as Kushwaha Kshatriya. An organisation claiming to represent those two groups and the Muraos petitioned for official recognition as being of the Kshatriya varna in 1928.\n\nThis action by the All India Kushwaha Kshatriya Mahasabha (AIKKM) reflected the general trend for social upliftment by communities that had traditionally been classified as being Shudra. The process, which M. N. Srinivas called sanskritisation, was a feature of late nineteenth- and early twentieth-century caste politics.\n\nThe position of the AIKKM was based on the concept of Vaishnavism, which promoted the worship and claims of descent from Rama or Krishna as a means to assume the trappings of Kshatriya symbolism and thus permit the wearing of the sacred thread even though the physical labour inherent in their cultivator occupations intrinsically defined them as Shudra. The movement caused them to abandon their claims to be descended from Shiva in favour of the alternate myth that claimed descent from Rama. In 1921, Ganga Prasad Gupta, a proponent of Kushwaha reform, had published a book offering a proof of the Kshatriya status of the Koeri, Kachhi, Murao and Kachwaha. His reconstructed history argued that the Kushwaha were Hindu descendants of Kush and that in the twelfth century they had served Raja Jaichand in a military capacity during the period of Muslim consolidation of the Delhi Sultanate. Subsequent persecution by the victorious Muslims caused the Kushwaha kshatryia to disperse and disguise their identity, foregoing the sacred thread and thereby becoming degraded and taking on various localised community names. Gupta's attempt to prove Kshatriya status, in common with similar attempts by others to establish histories of various castes, was spread via the caste associations, which Dipankar Gupta describes as providing a link between the \"urban, politically literate elite\" and the \"less literate villagers\". Some communities also constructed temples in support of these claims as, for example, did the Muraos in Ayodhya.\n\nSome Kushwaha reformers also argued, in a similar vein to the Kurmi reformer Devi Prasad Sinha Chaudhari, that since Rajputs and Bhumihars and Brahmins worked the fields in some areas, there was no rational basis for assertions that such labour marked a community as being of the Shudra varna.\n\nKushwahas are classified as a Most Backward Caste (MBC) in some Indian states. In 2013, the Haryana government added the Kushwaha, Koeri and Maurya castes to the list of backward classes.\n\nNotes\nCitations\n"}
{"id": "5989893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5989893", "title": "Lady Well", "text": "Lady Well\n\nThe Lady Well is a holy well in Glasgow in Scotland.\n\nAlso known as 'Our Lady's Well', Glasgow's Ladywell is an artesian spring noted on early city maps and can be reliably assumed to predate the city. It lay just outside the city wall and Drygate Port in medieval times and will have refreshed Romans travelling the old Carntyne Highway east-west between forts along the Antonine Wall. Today it is erroneously believed to have been sunk for use of commoners denied access to a nearby Priest's Well, and/or to have been capped in the early 19th century out of fears of pollution or plague. \n\nIn fact, its wellhead was jointly rebuilt by the Merchants House and City Council in 1835-6 for enclosure in a new wall when the Fir Park behind it was turned into a gardened burial ground. The Ladywell was still in public use while most wells in Glasgow were closed, after fresh water piped from Loch Katrine transformed the city's health and sanitation in the 1860s. An old article says the Ladywell was the last public well to be closed but gives no date. The classical wellhead installed by the 1836 restoration bears no resemblance to the original - an open round one - and remains there today. The current lintel stone (its second) notes the 1836 rebuild and another by the Merchant's House in 1874. A plaque commemorates its most recent refurbishment by Tennent Caledonian Breweries in 1983. The Ladywell remains capped.\n\n"}
{"id": "7465632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7465632", "title": "Lan astaslem", "text": "Lan astaslem\n\nLan astaslem (Arabic: لن استسلم ) is an Arabic phrase meaning \"I will not surrender\". The term is used by Christians in reference to \"Aslim Taslam\" (Arabic: أسلم تسلم) (\"submit to Islam\").\n\nOriana Fallaci, the Italian author and outspoken journalist, popularized the rejoinder \"lan astaslem\".\n\nMichelle Malkin has taken up this slogan as a response to the WTC terrorist attacks. T-shirts with \"lan astaslem\" have been produced, with all proceeds going to the Families of Freedom Scholarship Fund.\n\nOn September 17, 2006, in response to the Pope Benedict XVI Islam controversy, Imad Hamto, a Palestinian religious leader, said: \"We want to use the words of the Prophet Muhammad and tell the pope: ‘Aslim Taslam'. This was interpreted as a threat.\n"}
{"id": "5491759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5491759", "title": "Letter to a Christian Nation", "text": "Letter to a Christian Nation\n\nLetter to a Christian Nation is a book by Sam Harris, written in response to feedback he received following the publication of his first book \"The End of Faith\". The book is written in the form of an open letter to a Christian in the United States. Harris states that his aim is \"to demolish the intellectual and moral pretensions of Christianity in its most committed forms.\" The book was released in September 2006. In October it entered the \"New York Times\" Best Seller list at number seven.\n\nThe underlying premise Harris takes is one of utilitarianism. He states: \n\"Questions about Morality are questions about happiness and suffering.\"\nHarris addresses his arguments to members of the conservative Christian Right in America. In answer to their appeal to the Bible on questions of morality, he points to selected items from the Old Testament Mosaic law, (death for adultery, homosexuality, disobedience to parents etc.), and contrasts this with, for example, the complete non-violence of Jainism. Harris argues that the reliance on religious dogma can create a false morality, which is divorced from the reality of human suffering and the efforts to alleviate it; thus religious objections stand in the way of condom use in Africa to prevent the spread of HIV and AIDS, embryonic stem cell research, comprehensive sex education, abortion, and the use of the new HPV vaccine.\n\nHarris also addresses the problem of evil—the difficulty in believing in a good God who allows disasters like Hurricane Katrina—and the conflict between religion and science. A 2005 Gallup poll suggested that 53% of Americans are sympathetic to creationism, so Harris spends some time arguing for evolution and against the notion of Intelligent Design:\n\nHarris considers the variety of religions in the world, citing a religious basis for many ethnic and inter-communal conflicts. Contrary to those who advocate religious tolerance, mutual respect, and interfaith dialogue, Harris contends that such values only make it more difficult to criticize faith-based extremism. While holding that spiritual experiences can be valuable and life-affirming—he expends considerable space in \"The End of Faith\" in arguing that they are necessary—Harris rejects their link to religious beliefs. He argues that religion may have served some useful purpose for humanity in the past, but that it is now the greatest impediment to building a \"global civilization.\"\n\nThe book was released with laudatory endorsements from Richard Dawkins, Leonard Susskind, Roger Penrose, Matt Ridley, Desmond Morris, Janna Levin, and Michael Gazzaniga. There was also an unsigned blurb attributed by the publisher to a \"\"New York Times\" best selling author\", who wrote: \"I can't sign my name to this blurb. As a \"New York Times\" best selling author of books about business, my career will evaporate if I endorse a book that challenges the deeply held superstitions and bigotry of the masses. That's exactly why you should (no, you must) read this angry and honest book right away. As long as science and rational thought are under attack by the misguided yet pious majority, our nation is in jeopardy. I'm scared. You should be too. Please buy two, one for you and one for a friend you care about.\"\n\nCommenting in \"The New York Times Book Review\" during the 2008 U.S. Presidential campaign, Steven Pinker chose \"Letter to a Christian Nation\" as the one book that he would want Barack Obama to read, saying: \"Some have criticized the uncompromising tone of this atheist best seller, but it's mild stuff compared with the acid you guys have been flinging around. The book will put you in touch with the fastest-growing religious minority in this country, help you understand why our European allies consider us so backward and encourage you to keep your distance from kooks who call themselves spiritual leaders.\"\n\nReviewing the book in \"The New York Observer\", Emily Bobrow said: \"His new book may be smug in spots, but Mr. Harris makes a good case for a new and intellectually honest conversation about morality and human suffering.\"\n\nReviewing the book in the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", Jean E. Barker wrote: \"This combination of ruthless argument with polemic designed to provoke... will further delight Harris' supporters and infuriate his critics. His glee in his own intelligence aside, Harris is stricken by the amount of preventable suffering in the world and has identified ending religion as the cure... This small book adds little new to Harris' argument in \"The End of Faith\"—indeed, he repeats a number of his examples. Its strengths are the clarity of Harris' writing, his critique of religion's current entanglement in public policy and his continuing willingness to speak up about some very controversial ideas, even if they're difficult for others to hear.\"\n\n\"The Washington Post\" reported in 2006 that \"Letter\" stimulated both strong positive and strong negative reactions, attracting both a large audience and strong counter-reactions from religious scholars. The \"Post\" said the book \"doesn't drill many new theological wells,\" but that Harris \"might be the first man to be anointed 'Hot Atheist' in Rolling Stone magazine.\"\n\nJamie Doward of \"The Observer\" said Harris \"wastes no time taking on his enemy - Christian fundamentalism of the sort that influences President George W. Bush.\"\n\nWriting in an editorial in \"The Seattle Times\", Intelligent Design proponent David Klinghoffer said that \"Letter to a Christian Nation\" and Richard Dawkins's \"The God Delusion\" were the top two bestselling religious books. However, he went on to say that \"... Dawkins and Harris seem unfamiliar with religious tradition as biblical monotheists know it from personal experience and deep study. Frankly, the success of the new atheist faith would be hard to imagine without today's soaring levels of societal religious illiteracy.\"\n\nWriting in \"The Observer\", Stephanie Merritt described Harris as providing \"concise anti-religious apologetics,\" but said that \"[h]e does not seem to comprehend the mindset of those he addresses.\"\n\nIn \"The New York Times\", Peter Steinfels wrote that Harris's \"Letter\" and Dawkins's \"The God Delusion\" were receiving criticism \"not primarily, it should be pointed out, from the pious, which would hardly be noteworthy, but from avowed atheists as well as scientists and philosophers writing in publications like The New Republic and The New York Review of Books, not known as cells in the vast God-fearing conspiracy.\"\n\nMichael Novak, a Catholic philosopher, wrote in the conservative \"National Review\" that \"[t]he letter that Harris claims is intended for a Christian nation is in fact wholly uninterested in Christianity on any level, is hugely ignorant, and essentially represents his own love letter to himself, on account of his being superior to the stupid citizens among whom he lives.\"\n\n\"The New Criterion\" described \"Letter\" as condescending, saying \"Harris is too choked on bile, or at best incredulity ('we stand dumbstruck by \"you\",' he says, italics and all) to admit that his addressees are worth speaking with. This is in part because his chosen antagonist is 'Christianity at its most divisive, injurious, and retrograde' even though it's questionable whether anything was ever accomplished by attacking a system at its most 'retrograde.'\"\n\n\"Publishers Weekly\" characterized \"Letter\" as \"sometimes simplistic and misguided.\" The review elaborates that \"Harris overstates his case by misunderstanding religious faith, as when he makes the audaciously naïve statement that 'mysticism is a rational enterprise; religion is not.'\"\n\nThe following books have been written in response to \"Letter to a Christian Nation\":\n\n"}
{"id": "50478937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50478937", "title": "List of former Bahá'ís", "text": "List of former Bahá'ís\n\nEx-Bahá'ís or former Bahá'ís are people who have been a member of the Bahá'í Faith at some time in their lives and later left it. The following is a list of notable ex-Bahá'ís, who have either converted to another religion or philosophy, or became non-religious. Bahá'ís who are not in good standing, having lost their voting rights for some transgression, are not considered ex-Bahá'ís.\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Covenant-breaker\" is a term used by Bahá'ís to refer to a person who has been excommunicated from the Bahá'í community for the act of \"covenant-breaking,\" roughly defined as active opposition to the Bahá'í Faith from a current member. Among the descendants of Bahá'u'lláh, most were expelled for their opposition to `Abdu'l-Bahá and later Shoghi Effendi. The extended family were later almost wholly assimilated into Muslim society in Haifa, Israel, with no common religious activities.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44415374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44415374", "title": "Maheswarnath Mandir", "text": "Maheswarnath Mandir\n\nMaheswarnath Mandir (locally known as \"grand shivala Triolet\") is a Hindu temple located in the village of Triolet, Mauritius. The presiding deity of the temple is Lord Shiva (another name is Maheshwarnath, meaning the \"great Lord\"). The temple was founded in 1888 by Pandit Shri Sajeebunlall Ramsoondur, who came from Calcutta. The temple is famous for its association with the first pilgrimage to Ganga Talao, the sacred lake found in the center of Mauritius. The temple is the biggest and one of the oldest of its kind on the island.\n\nThe temple is more than 120 years old. Its founder; Pandit Shri Sanjibunlall Ramsoondur,originally of Bihar India better known as Pandit Sanjibon, came to Mauritius on April 4, 1866,travelling from Calcutta. He came as a peddler but acquired wealth during the great partition, which began in 1878. Due to his economic independence, intelligence and stature, he was respected by all.\nPandit Sanjibon was a major landowner - He had 53.70 acres at Terminus, Triolet, of which he donated 10.13 acres to a Hindu society in 1895.\n\nHe had acquired the land of Jules Langlois, due to the failure of the sugar factory of Triolet. He then demolished the chimney of the factory, without knowing he was bypassing the laws concerning the historic monuments of Mauritius. Thereafter, he decided to build Hindu temples at its own expenses and the principal temple would be of the same height as the destroyed chimney.\n\nAt that time, the ruins of the sugar factories were often used to make places of worship. The Church of Notre Dame de La Salette is a case in Grand Baie. The other one is the temple of Triolet which was built on the ruins. The building was the work of Tamil artisans under the supervision of Mr Goinsamy Maestry. Those artisans had even built the Jummah Masjid in Port Louis and the Sockalingum Meenatchee Ammen kovil at Nicolay road, Port Louis (commonly known as \"Kaylasson temple\").\n\nSajibon Pandit, who was very energetic, himself helped in constructing the temple; which lasted from 1888 to 1891.\n\nImages of the deities and priests arrived from India and Sajibon went there to pick them up. When he brought the second \"lingam\" from Kashi, he organized a \"Shobha Yatra\"(a religious procession) from Port Louis to Triolet.\n\nAfter the inauguration of the temple, Pandit Sajibon donated money to the Hindu society for the management of the temple. He gave 10.13 acres of land along with, according to the deed of Mr Baissac, notary.\n\nAccording to a legend, during the temple's construction, a huge pot of gold and silver coins were found buried on the very spot where the temple was being made.It is believed by many that this gold must have belonged to Indian Ocean pirates from the previous century, who used to attack east Indian company ships for their gold and other precious goods.The money found was then used for the construction of the temple.\n\nA major event associated with Pandit Sajibon and the Maheswarnath temple is the beginning of the annual pilgrimage to Grand Bassin. In fact, in 1897 Pandit Shri Jhummon Giri Gossagne Napal, a priest of Bois Pignolet together with Pandit Shri Mohanparsad, a priest of Goodlands saw in a dream the water of the lake of Grand Bassin springing from the ‘Jahnvi’, thus forming part of Ganga. The news of the dream spread rapidly and created quite a stir in the Hindu community and also reassured the Hindus about the sacred nature of the island and the futility of returning India to die. The following year, Pandit Giri Gossagne and Pandit Sajibon along with nine people from Triolet trekked to Grand Bassin to collect its water to offer to Lord Shiva on the occasion of Maha Shivaratri. The lake was then known as ‘Pari Talao’ and became the equivalent of the holy Ganges in India.\nThereafter, people from all around the island started to follow this tradition of making a pilgrimage with a \"kanwar\"(A bamboo structure covered with fabrics and decorated with ornaments-it also enshrines images of Hindu deities) to Ganga Talao to collect its holy water. The holy water is then offered to lord Shiva in the local temples of their respective villages. This pilgrimage remains an integral part of the Maha Shivratree festival and this tradition is unique to Mauritius.\n\nThe temples reflect the Bengal architecture. For instance, the main temple is a variation of the \"ratna\" style of West Bengal. It is a variation of the pancha-ratna or a five-towered temple built on a platform. The veranda attached to the main temple resembles the thakur-dalan, which is common in the old houses of Calcutta. The thakur-dalan is a veranda where the deity of Durga is invoked during the Durga Puja in West Bengal. This is also seems to be the case for the Vishnu temple on the right. The main temple is decorated with images of various Hindu deities and floral designs. Since its construction, the temple is always painted white while the sculptures and the floral designs are colorful, in contrast to the white background. The main temple houses lord Shiva in the form of the shiv ling. There is also the image of his wife, goddess Parvati, their sons; lord Ganesha and lord Kartikeya and another form of Shiva; lord Bhairava. Facing the shiv ling is Nandi, the gate-keeper.\nNext to the principal temple are two smaller ones dedicated to goddess Lakshmi and lord Nataraja. Another temple is dedicated to Lakshmi Narayan and their various incarnations. There is also a Hanuman temple in addition to a temple housing lord Jagannath, goddess Kali, goddess Saraswati, goddess Durga and her nine forms. In the center of the temple complex is a smaller temple enshrining the smaller lingam that Pandit Sajibon brought from Kashi and hence the temple is named Kashi Vishwanath.\n\n"}
{"id": "8760624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8760624", "title": "Mick Lally", "text": "Mick Lally\n\nMichael “Mick” Lally (10 November 1945 – 31 August 2010) was an Irish stage, film and television actor. He departed from a teaching career for acting during the 1970s. Though best known in Ireland for his role as Miley in the television soap \"Glenroe\", Lally’s stage career spanned several decades, and he was involved in feature films such as \"Alexander\" and the Academy Award-nominated \"The Secret of Kells\". He died in August 2010 after a battle with emphysema. Many reports cited him as one of Ireland's finest and most recognisable actors.\n\nBorn in November 1945 and reared in the Gaeltacht village of Tourmakeady, County Mayo, Mick (Michael) Lally was the eldest of a family of seven children; five sisters and one brother. He went to the local national school in Tourmakeady and then to St. Mary's College, Galway. After studying at University College Galway he taught history and Irish for six years in Archbishop McHale College, Tuam from 1969 to 1975, but quit teaching to pursue his career as a stage actor.\n\nMick began his acting career with Taibhdhearc na Gaillimhe (Ireland's national Irish language theatre), and was a founding member of the Druid Theatre Company. Lally received an Irish Times/ESB Theatre Award Nomination for Best Actor for his role in Druid's production of \"The Dead School\". Lally also became a member of the Field Day Theatre Company, and starred in the company's 1980 premiere of Brian Friel's play \"Translations\". He first played at the Abbey Theatre in 1977 in a production of \"Wild Oats\" and went on to perform in many other Abbey productions.\n\nIn 1982, Mick starred in the TV series \"The Ballroom of Romance\" alongside Brenda Fricker. From 1983 he played the role of Miley Byrne in the RTÉ soap \"Glenroe\", reprising the character that he played earlier in the \"Bracken\" in 1978. In 1979, Lally won a Jacob's Award for his performance as Miley in \"Bracken\". Lally also had some musical success when \"The By-road to Glenroe\" went to the top of the Irish charts in 1990. He was also involved in voice-over work – including a noted advertisement for Kilmeaden Cheese during the 1990s. Other TV appearances included roles in \"Tales of Kinvarna\", \"The Year of the French\" and \"Ballykissangel\".\n\nIn 1994, Lally played the character Hugh in \"The Secret of Roan Inish\", and in 1995 portrayed Dan Hogan in the film adaptation of Maeve Binchy's \"Circle of Friends\". Other film roles included: \"Poitín\", \"Our Boys\", \"The Outcasts\", \"A Man of No Importance\" and others. In later years, Lally provided the voice of Brother Aidan in the Academy Award-nominated \"The Secret of Kells\" – an animated film directed by Tomm Moore.\n\nLally appeared in several TV advertisements encouraging elderly people to \"release the equity tied up in their homes\" during the Celtic Tiger.\n\nLally died on the morning of 31 August 2010, after a short stay in hospital. The cause of death was reported as heart failure – arising from an underlying emphysema condition. His death led to \"widespread outpourings of sympathy\".\n\nTaoiseach Brian Cowen said he was \"shocked and saddened\" by Lally's death, adding that he was \"one of the most loved actors of his generation and will be dearly missed by the public and his colleagues in theatre and television\". Minister for Culture Mary Hanafin and Michael D. Higgins TD, former Minister for Arts, Culture & Gaeltacht, also expressed condolences. Arts Council of Ireland chair Pat Moylan called it \"a sad and shocking loss\". Lally's screenwife Biddy aka Mary McEvoy said \"Mick and I loved each other and we got on really well\".\n\nLally's funeral took place in Dublin on 2 September 2010. The \"Irish Examiner\" commented that the \"nation has lost one of its favourite uncles\". Personalities from TV, film, theatre and politics attended, while President of Ireland Mary McAleese sent a letter and Lally received a standing ovation at the end.\n\nLally was married to a nurse, Peige, with whom he celebrated his 30th wedding anniversary the year before his death. They had three children: Saileog, Darach and Maghnus. Lally's parents were both alive when he died.\n\nLally was a fluent speaker of the Irish language, and his children study in Irish-speaking schools (gaelscoileanna). He appeared in several Irish language productions throughout his career, from \"Poitín\" in 1978, through to an appearance in the Irish language soap \"Ros na Rún\" in 2008.\n\nHe was a supporter of socialist causes, and canvassed for Socialist Party candidate Joe Higgins in the 1996 Dublin West by-election and the 1997 general election. Lally was an atheist who did not believe in an afterlife, and regarded religion as nonsense and \"codology\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "90315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90315", "title": "Nanahuatzin", "text": "Nanahuatzin\n\nIn Aztec mythology, the god Nanahuatzin or Nanahuatl (or Nanauatzin, the suffix -tzin implies respect or familiarity; ), the most humble of the gods, sacrificed himself in fire so that he would continue to shine on Earth as the sun, thus becoming the sun god. Nanahuatzin means \"full of sores.\" According to a translation of the \"Histoyre du Mechique\", Nanahuatzin is the son of Itzpapalotl and Cuzcamiahu or Tonan, but was adopted by Piltzintecuhtli and Xōchiquetzal. In the Codex Borgia, Nanahuatzin is represented as a man emerging from a fire. This was originally interpreted as an illustration of cannibalism. He is probably an aspect of Xolotl.\n\nThe Aztecs had various myths about the creation, and Nanahuatzin participates in several. In the legend of Quetzalcoatl, Nanahuatzin helps Quetzalcoatl to obtain the first grains which will be the food of humankind. In Aztec mythology, the universe is not permanent or everlasting, but subject to death like any living creature. However, even as it dies, the universe is reborn again into a new age, or \"Sun.\" Nanahuatzin is best known from the \"Legend of the Fifth Sun\" as related by Bernardino de Sahagún.\n\nIn this legend, which is the basis for most Nanahuatl myths, there had been four creations. In each one, one god has taken on the task of serving as the sun: Tezcatlipoca, Quetzalcoatl, Tlaloc, and Chalchiuhtlicue. Each age ended because the gods were not satisfied with the human beings that they had created. Finally, Quetzalcoatl with the aid of Xolotl retrieves the sacred bones of their ancestors, mixes them with corn and his own blood, and manages to make acceptable human beings. However, no other god wants the task of being the sun.\n\n\nNothing happens at first, but eventually two suns appear in the sky. One of the gods, angry over Tecciztecatl's lack of courage, takes a rabbit and throws it in Tecciztecatl's face, causing him to lose his brilliance. Tecciztecatl thus becomes the moon, which bears the impression of a rabbit to this very day. Yet the sun remains unmoving in the sky, parching and burning all the ground beneath. Finally the gods realize that they, too, must allow themselves to be sacrificed so that human beings may live. They present themselves to the god Ehecatl, who offers them up one by one. Then, with the powerful wind that arises as a result of their sacrifice, Ehecatl makes the sun move through the sky, nourishing the earth rather than scorching it.\n\nA close relationship between Xolotl and Nanahuatzin exists. Xolotl is probably identical with Nanahuatl.\nSeler characterizes Nanahuatzin (\"Little Pustule Covered One\"), who is deformed by syphilis, as an aspect of Xolotl in his capacity as god of monsters, deforming diseases, and deformities. The syphilitic god Nanahuatzin is an avatar of Xolotl.\n\nThe fifth sun is identified with Tonatiuh, Nanahuatzin was the youngest of three boys and a girl named \"Xochit Sihuat\" who had emerged from the fruit of the gourd-tree (\"Crescentia cujete\"), which in turn had grown from the head of a woman that had flown into the night while her body slept. (The head attached itself to a startled deer, and the deer leapt into a canyon, there planting the head in the ground.) Nanahuatzin and his siblings were raised by Tantepus Lamat (\"Iron-Toothed Old Woman\") until she gave to her lover some food they had obtained. The siblings proceeded to butcher that lover and, calling it venison, fed his body to the old woman, then killed her. The siblings found the world's supply of maize was concealed within a mountain, known only to a bird feeding on that stock. Where his siblings had failed, Nanahuatzin succeeded in opening the mountain, but in doing so, was himself trapped within.\n"}
{"id": "1140295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1140295", "title": "Nyishi people", "text": "Nyishi people\n\nThe Nyishi are the largest ethnic group in Arunachal Pradesh in north-eastern India. In Nishi, their traditional language, \"Nyi\" refers to \"a man\" and the word \"shi\" denotes \"a being\", which combined together refers to a human being. They are spread across seven districts of Arunachal Pradesh: Kra Daadi, Kurung Kumey, East Kameng, West Kameng, Papum Pare, parts of Lower Subansiri and Kamle district. They also live in the Sonitpur and North Lakhimpur districts of Assam.\n\nTheir population of around 300,000 makes them the most populous tribe of Arunachal Pradesh, closely followed by the combined tribes of the Adi and Galo, who were the most populous in the 2001 census. The Nyishi language belongs to the Sino-Tibetan family, however, the origin is disputed.\n\nPolygyny is prevalent among the Nyishi. It signifies one's social status and economical stability and also proves handy during hard times like clan wars or social huntings and various other social activities. This practice, however is diminishing especially with the modernization and also with the spread of Christianity. They trace their descent patrilineally and are divided into several clans.\n\nThe Nyishi are agriculturalists who practice \"jhum\", known as \"rag\" in Nishi, which is a form of shifting cultivation. The principal crops raised include paddy (unmilled rice), \"tapio\" (maize), \"mekung\" (cucumber), \"takie\" (ginger), \"aange\" (yams) and \"temi\" (millet). Rice is the staple food of the people, supplemented by fish, meat of various animals, edible tubers and leafy vegetables. Before a Western market economic system arrived, they used a barter system. They greatly valued the generalized reciprocity and also balance reciprocity in their economic system. A locally-made drink known as \"apong\" (the two types of \"apong\": \"pone\", made of rice, and \"poling\" which is made of millet) is served at every social gatherings and important events. The Nyishis are typically fond of it. Traditional ways of preparing them include steaming, roasting and smoking. Recently they have been forced to move towards a market based exchange economy.\n\nTraditionally, Nyishi plaited their hair and tie it neatly at the forehead with Tibetan thread. A brass skewer passes horizontally through the tied hair. Cane rings were worn around the waist, arms and legs. Men wore a cane helmet surmounted with the beak of the great Indian hornbill. The usage of actual hornbill beaks is discouraged these days due to tough wildlife protection laws since the great Indian hornbill is a protected species and generally due to growing awareness among the people as well. Nowadays It is being supplemented by beaks made of cane or other materials and the entire headgear/cane helmet itself is readily available in the market for purchase. Additional decorations varied depending upon the status of the person and were symbols of manly valor.\n\nThe clothing of the men consists of sleeveless shirts made from thick cotton cloth, striped gaily with blue and red together with a mantle of cotton or wool fastened around the throat and shoulders. Strings made of beads in varying sizes and colours were also worn, mainly for decoration purposes and to show the wearer's status. They also carry a Machete called dao (\"uriuk, chiighee\" in Nyishi) (short sword) and a knife (\"Ryukchak\") in a bamboo sheath that are mostly covered with animal furs. Their armament consists of spear with iron-head, a large sword (dao), and a bow and arrows which are tipped with poison (\"umiyu\"). During war both the chest and back are covered with shields made from sabbe buffalo hide, and over it they wear a black cloak made of indigenous fibre.\n\nThe Nyishi women generally wear a sleeveless mantle of striped or plain cloth, its upper part tucked tightly over the breast and enveloping the body from the armpits to the centre of the calves. A ribbon is tied at the waist. A girdle consisting of metal disks and cane garters is worn at the waist. Their hair is parted in the middle, plaited and tied into a chignon just above the nape. Their ornaments include multicolored bead necklaces, brass chains, metal bells, huge brass or silver earrings and heavy bracelets of various metals.\n\n\"Nyokum\" is the festival celebrated by the Nyishi people, which commemorates their ancestors.\n\nMost Nyishis have been converted to Christianity by Christian missionaries in the 1970s, particularly in the Papum Pare region and Christianity is the major religion among the Nyishis. Small groups of Hindus also exist among the Nyishi.\n\nThe Nyishis, who traditionally wear cane helmets surmounted by the crest of a hornbill beak (known as pudum, padam), have considerably affected the population of this bird.\n\nSeveral organizations, such as the Arunachal Wildlife and Nature Foundation and the Wildlife Trust of India, have been trying to stop the Nyishi hunting these birds in order to protect them from extinction. Nature reserves, such as the Pakke Sanctuary, are being set up to protect the birds, while artificial materials, such as fiberglass, have been introduced as an alternative to the hornbill beak in Nyishi dress.\n\n"}
{"id": "4510921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4510921", "title": "Pagan Pride", "text": "Pagan Pride\n\nPagan Pride is a movement among American Pagans to build a positive public image of Paganism. Local Pagan Pride groups sponsor \"Pagan Pride Day\" festivals, usually in public locations such as city parks or university campuses. The first recorded reference to \"Pagan Pride\" can be traced to 1992.\n\nThe Pagan Pride Project is an organization whose aims are to promote understanding of Paganism, support various charities, and bring Pagan communities closer together. The project's logo shows various Pagan symbols encircling the Earth—the yin/yang symbol, Celtic cross, Mjöllnir, a Triple Goddess symbol, an Eye of Horus, Venus of Willendorf, ankh, pentagram, triskelion, Stone Megalith, Green Man, Enneagram, and the Kabbalistic Tree of life.\n\nPagan Pride Day is an annual event held in a variety of locations across the world. The festivities are as varied as the communities who organize them. Some events are simple open picnics or cook-outs held in a local park; others are full-fledged festivals with rented venues, performance stages, and food facilities. There are, however, several common elements.\n\nFirst and foremost is the goal of educating the public about the beliefs and practices of various Neopagan traditions. The general public is invited and there are usually tables of reading materials, staffed by members of a range of Neopagan denominations. Speakers or workshops may focus on dispelling common misconceptions about Neopaganism, or may seek to educate outsiders about the details of their particular beliefs and practices.\n\nThe second most common aspect is charitable work. Many Pagan Pride coordinating committees choose a local charity to support with fundraising and/or donations raised by the event. These charities might be organizations related to environmental conservation, animal rescues, food pantries, shelters for victims of domestic violence, or related causes.\n\nPagan Pride Day events are open to the public and generally welcoming to families and children. Hosting a PPD event requires adherence to a range of policies.\n\nMany Pagan Pride festivals showcase local Neopagan performers, artisans, and merchants. Some events offer open mic sessions where attendees might chant, tell jokes, spin tales, drum, or read poetry.\n\n"}
{"id": "74222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=74222", "title": "Presbyter", "text": "Presbyter\n\nIn the New Testament, a presbyter (Greek πρεσβύτερος: \"elder\") is a leader of a local Christian congregation. The word derives from the Greek \"presbyteros,\" which means elder or senior. The Greek word \"episkopos\" literally means overseer; it refers exclusively to the office of bishop. Many understand \"presbyteros\" to refer to the bishop functioning as overseer. In modern Catholic and Orthodox usage, \"presbyter\" is distinct from \"bishop\" and synonymous with \"priest\". In predominant Protestant usage, \"presbyter\" does not refer to a member of a distinctive priesthood called \"priests,\" but rather to a minister, pastor, or elder.\n\nThe word \"presbyter\" etymologically derives from Greek \"πρεσβύτερος\" (\"presbyteros\"), the comparative form of \"πρέσβυς\" (\"presbys\"), \"old man\". However, while the English word priest has presbyter as the etymological origin, the distinctive Greek word (Greek ἱερεύς \"hiereus\") for \"priest\" is never used for presbyteros/episkopos in the New Testament, except as being part of the general priesthood of all believers, with the first Christians making a distinction between sacerdotal Jewish and pagan priests and New Testament pastors.\n\nThe earliest organization of the Church in Jerusalem was according to most scholars similar to that of Jewish synagogues, but it had a council or college of ordained presbyters ( \"elders\"). In Acts 11:30 and , we see a collegiate system of government in Jerusalem though headed by James, according to tradition the first bishop of the city. In , the Apostle Paul ordains presbyters in the churches he founded.\n\nThe term presbyter was often not yet clearly distinguished from the term overseer (ἐπίσκοποι \"episkopoi\", later exclusively used as meaning bishop), as in , Titus 1:5–7 and 1 Peter 5:1. The earliest writings of the Apostolic Fathers, the Didache and the First Epistle of Clement for example, show the church used two terms for local church offices—presbyters (seen by many as an interchangeable term with episcopos or overseer) and deacon.\n\nIn Timothy and Titus in the New Testament a more clearly defined episcopate can be seen. We are told that Paul had left Timothy in Ephesus and Titus in Crete to oversee the local church ( and ). Paul commands them to ordain presbyters/bishops and to exercise general oversight, telling Titus to \"rebuke with all authority\" ().\n\nEarly sources are not clear, but various groups of Christian communities would have had a group of college or presbyter-overseers functioning as leaders of the local churches. Eventually, the head or \"monarchic\" bishop came to rule more clearly, and all local churches would eventually follow the example of the other churches and structure themselves after the model of the others with the one bishop in clearer charge, though the role of the body of priests remained important.\n\nFrom the 2nd century, it is certain that the offices of bishop and presbyter were clearly distinguished, the bishop was understood as the president of the council of presbyters, and so the bishop was distinguished both in honor and in prerogative from the presbyters, who were seen as deriving their authority by means of delegation from the bishop. Each Episcopal see had its own bishop and his presence was necessary to consecrate any gathering of the church.\n\nEventually, as Christendom grew, individual congregations were no longer directly served by a bishop. The bishop in a large city (the Metropolitan bishop) would appoint a priest to pastor the flock in each congregation, acting as his delegate.\n\nThe fourth century scholar Jerome (347–420) stated:\n\nA Catholic explanation suggests that the delegates were bishops in the actual sense of the term but that they neither possessed fixed sees nor had a special title. Since they were essentially itinerant, they confided the fixed necessary functions relating to the daily life of the community to the care of some of the better-educated and highly respected converts.\n\nAlong with this was the title \"priest\" being distinctively ascribed to presbyters/bishops. Catholic writer Greg Dues, author of \"Catholic Customs & Traditions\", explains that \"Priesthood as we know it in the Catholic church was unheard of during the first generation of Christianity, because at that time priesthood was still associated with animal sacrifices in both the Jewish and pagan religions.\" \"When the Eucharist came to be regarded as a sacrifice [after Rome's theology], the role of the bishop took on a priestly dimension. By the third century bishops were considered priests. Presbyters or elders sometimes substituted for the bishop at the Eucharist. By the end of the third century people all over were using the title 'priest' (hierus in Greek and sacerdos in Latin) for whoever presided at the Eucharist.\"\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church, the Orthodox Church, the non-Chalcedonian churches, and similar groups typically refer to presbyters in English as priests (\"priest\" is etymologically derived from the Greek \"presbyteros\" via the Latin \"presbyter\"). Collectively, however, their \"college\" is referred to as the \"presbyterium\", \"presbytery\", or \"presbyterate\".\n\nThis usage is seen by most Protestant Christians as stripping the laity of its priestly status, while those who use the term defend its usage by saying that, while they do believe in the \"priesthood\" (Greek ἱερεύς \"hiereus\" – a different word altogether, used in Rev 1:6, 1 Pet 2:9) of all believers, they do not believe in the \"eldership\" of all believers. This is generally true of United Methodists, who ordain elders as clergy (pastors) while affirming the priesthood of all believers. The evangelical (or ultra low-church) Anglican Diocese of Sydney has abolished the use of the word \"priest\" for those ordained as such. They are now referred to as \"presbyters\". Presbyterians sometimes refer to their ruling elders and teaching elders (ministers) as presbyters.\n\nThe website of the International Standard Version of the Bible, a Protestant translation, responds to a criticism of its use of \"elder\" over \"priest \" by stating the following: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "491454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=491454", "title": "Religion in Brazil", "text": "Religion in Brazil\n\nChristianity is the largest religion in Brazil, with Roman Catholics having the most adherents. Brazil possesses a richly spiritual society formed from the meeting of the Roman Catholic Church with the religious traditions of African slaves and indigenous people. This confluence of faiths during the Portuguese colonization of Brazil led to the development of a diverse array of syncretistic practices within the overarching umbrella of Brazilian Roman Catholicism, characterized by traditional Portuguese festivities. Until recently Catholicism was overwhelmingly dominant. Rapid change in the 21st century has led to a growth in secularism (no religious affiliation), and Evangelical Protestantism to over 22% of the population. The 2010 census indicates that under 65% of Brazilians consider themselves Catholic, down from 90% in 1970, leading Cardinal Cláudio Hummes to comment, \"We wonder with anxiety: how long will Brazil remain a Catholic country?\"\n\nIn 1891, when the first Brazilian Republican Constitution was set forth, Brazil ceased to have an official religion and has remained secular ever since, though the Catholic Church remained politically influential into the 1970s. The Constitution of Brazil guarantees freedom of religion and strongly prohibits the establishment of any religion by banning government support or hindrance of religion at all levels. In the 2010 census 64.63% of the population declared themselves as Roman Catholic, 22.2% as Protestant, 8% as non religious, and 5.2% as followers of other religions (mostly Spiritists or Kardecists who follow the doctrines of Allan Kardec, Umbandists, Candomblers, Jehovah's Witnesses, Mormons, and minorities of Buddhists, Jews, Muslims, and other groups).\n\nBrazilian religions are very diversified and inclined to syncretism. In recent decades, there has been a great increase of Neo-Pentecostal churches and a thriving of Afro-Brazilian religions, which have decreased the number of members of the Roman Catholic Church. The number of Umbandists and Candomblers could be significantly higher than the official census figure, since many of them continue to this day to disguise their religion under \"Roman Catholic\" syncretism. About ninety percent of Brazilians declared some sort of religious affiliation in the most recent census.\n\n2010 Census:\n\nBrazil has the largest number of Catholics in the world. Roman Catholicism has been Brazil's main religion since the beginning of the 16th century. It was introduced among the Native Brazilians by Jesuits missionaries and also observed by all the Portuguese first settlers.\n\nDuring colonial times, there was no freedom of religion. All Portuguese settlers and Brazilians were compulsorily bound to the Roman Catholic faith and forced to pay taxes to the church. After the Brazilian independence, the first constitution introduced freedom of religion in 1824, but Roman Catholicism was kept as the official religion. The Imperial Government paid a salary to Catholic priests and influenced the appointment of bishops. The political-administrative division of the municipalities accompanied the hierarchical division of the bishoprics in \"\"freguesias\" (parishes). There was also some hindrances to the construction of temples and cemeteries that belonged to the Catholic Church. The first Republican Constitution in 1891 separated religion from state and made all religions equal in the Codes of Law, but the Catholic Church remained very influential until the 1970s. For example, due to the strong opposition of the Catholic Church, divorce was not allowed in Brazil until 1977 even if a separated couple observed a different religion.\n\nThe Catholicism practiced in Brazil is full of popular festivities rooted in centuries-old Portuguese traditions, but also heavily influenced by African and Native Brazilian usage. Popular traditions include pilgrimages to the National Shrine of Our Lady of Aparecida (\"Nossa Senhora Aparecida\"), the patron saint of Brazil, and religious festivals like the \"Círio de Nazaré\" in Belém and the \"Festa do Divino\"\" in many cities of Central Brazil. Areas that received many European immigrants in the last century, specially Italian and German, have Catholic traditions closer to that practiced in Europe.\n\nThe largest proportion of Catholics is concentrated in the Northeast (79.9%) and South (77.4%) regions. The smallest proportion of Catholics is found in the Center-West region (69.1%). The State of Piauí has the largest proportion of Catholics (87,93%) and the State of Rio de Janeiro has the smallest one (45.19%). Among the state capitals, Teresina has the largest proportion of Catholics in the country (86.010%), followed by Aracaju, Fortaleza, Florianópolis and João Pessoa.\n\nProtestantism in Brazil largely originated with American missionaries in the second half of the 19th century, following up on efforts that began in the 1830s. Evangelical Protestantism and Pentecostalism has grown very rapidly in Brazil since the late 20th century. The 2010 Census reported that 22.2% of the Brazilian population is Protestant, about 44 million people. Brazil has many versions of Protestantism. These include neo-Pentecostals, old Pentecostals and Traditional Protestants (most of them Baptists, Presbyterians and Methodists) predominantly from Minas Gerais to the South. In the same region, mainly Minas Gerais and São Paulo, large sections of the middle class, about 1-2% of the total population, is Kardecist, sometimes pure, sometimes in syncretism with Roman Catholicism. The Anglican Episcopal Church of Brazil, part of the Anglican Communion, has some 120,000 members. Centers of neo-Pentecostalism are Londrina in Paraná state, as well the cities of São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Belo Horizonte (capital of Minas Gerais), especially the suburban and nearby areas of these cities. Lutherans are concentrated mostly in the states of Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina and in countryside regions of the states of Rio de Janeiro and Espírito Santo.\n\nAs of the year 2000, the largest proportion of Protestants is found in North (19.8%), Central-West (18.9%) and Southeast (17.5%) regions. Among the state capitals, Rio de Janeiro has the largest proportion of non-Pentecostal Protestants in the country (10.07%), followed by Vitória, Porto Velho, Cuiabá and Manaus. But Goiânia is the state capital with the largest proportion of Pentecostal Protestants in the country (20.41%), followed by Boa Vista, Porto Velho, Belém and Belo Horizonte.\n\nThe Eastern Orthodox Church is also present in Brazil. The Orthodox Metropolitan Cathedral, localized in São Paulo, is the See of the Archdiocese of the Greek Orthodox Church of Antioch in São Paulo. It is an example of Byzantine architecture that can be appreciated in South America. Its construction, which begun in the 1940s, was inspired in the Basilica of Hagia Sophia of Istanbul and was inaugurated in January 1954. According to IBGE, there were 131,571 Orthodox Christians in Brazil.\n\nIn 2014 according to the denomination, Brazil had 767,449 Jehovah's Witnesses with 11,562 congregations and a ratio of 1 Witness to 256 residents. However the 2010 census reported nearly 1.4 million people listed themselves as members.\n\nThe 2010 national census reported 226,509 people identifying as members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; This is very different from the church's reported membership, in 2012, of 1,173,533 causing some to question the membership numbers reported by the LDS church.\n\nThe church also reports 1,940 congregations and 315 family history centers. The LDS Church now also has 6 temples spread out across the nation, in Campinas, Curitiba, Manaus, Porto Alegre, Recife, and São Paulo, with additional temples under construction or announced in Fortaleza, Rio de Janeiro, Belém, Brasília, and Salvador.\n\nThe word Spiritism refers to the Spiritist Doctrine, which can be found in Allan Kardec's 5 main books. Spiritism does follow Jesus's principal and his moral teachings. With almost 4 million adherents in 2010, is the second largest Religion of Brazil. Many confuse Spiritism with Afro-Brazilian Religions like Umbanda, Candomblé and others that have a following of almost 600,000 adherents. \nOne of the most unusual features of the rich Brazilian spiritual landscape are the sects which use ayahuasca (an Amazonian entheogenic tea), including Santo Daime, União do Vegetal, and Centro de Cultura Cósmica.\n\nThis syncretism, coupled with ideas prevalent during the military dicatorship, has resulted in a church for the secular, based on philosopher Auguste Comte's principles of positivism, based at the Positivist Church of Brazil in Rio de Janeiro.\n\nThere are small populations of people professing Buddhism (215,000), Judaism (107,000), Islam (35,000), Shinto, Rastafarian and a few other religions. They comprise 20th century immigrants from East Asia, the Middle East, or of recent immigrant descent.\n\nAfro-Brazilian religions are syncretic religions, such as Candomblé, that have many followers, mainly Afro-Brazilians. They are concentrated mainly in large urban centers in the Northeast, such as Salvador, Recife, or Rio de Janeiro in the Southeast. The cities of São Paulo, Porto Alegre and Florianópolis have a great number of followers, but in the South of Brazil the most common African influenced Ritual is Almas e Angola, which is an Umbanda like ritual. Nowadays, there are over 70 \"terreiros\" (temples) in Florianópolis, which are the places where the rituals run. In addition to Candomblé which is the survival of West African religion, there is also Umbanda which blends Spiritism, indigenous and African beliefs. There is prejudice about \"African cults\" in Brazil's south, but there are Catholics, Protestants and other kinds of Christians who also believe in the Orishas, and go both to churches and terreiros.\n\nCandomblé, Umbanda, Batuque, Xango, and Tambor de Mina, were originally brought by black slaves shipped from Africa to Brazil. These black slaves would summon their gods, called Orixas, Voduns or Inkices with chants and dances they had brought from Africa. These cults were persecuted throughout most of Brazilian history, largely because they were believed to be pagan or even satanic. However, the Brazilian republican government legalized all of them on the grounds of the necessary separation between the State and the Church in 1889.\n\nIn current practice, Umbanda followers leave offerings of food, candles and flowers in public places for the spirits. Candomblé terreiros are more hidden from general view, except in famous festivals such as Iyemanja Festival and the Waters of Oxala in the Northeast.\n\nFrom Bahia northwards there are different practices such as Catimbo, Jurema with heavy indigenous elements. All over the country, but mainly in the Amazon rainforest, there are many Indians still practicing their original traditions. Many of their beliefs and use of naturally occurring plant derivatives are incorporated into African, Spirtitualists and folk religion.\n\nThough these religions have experienced much greater freedom since the decline of the influence of the Roman Catholic Church, they have suffered increasing hostility from Protestant churches, with attacks on temples and defacement of statues of the gods. In recent years measures have been taken to counter religious conflict.\n\nBuddhism is probably the largest of all minority religions, with about 215,000 followers. This is mostly because of the large Japanese Brazilian community. About a fifth of the Japanese Brazilian community are followers of Buddhism. Japanese Buddhist sects like Jodo Shinshu, Nichiren Buddhism (most notably the Soka Gakkai), and Zen are the most popular. Tibetan Buddhism (Vajrayana) is also present, since Chagdud Tulku Rinpoche founded the Khadro Ling center in Três Coroas, Rio Grande do Sul (where he lived until his death in 2002), and many other institutions across the country. However, in recent years both Chinese Mahayana and South East Asian Theraveda sects are gaining popularity. Buddhism was introduced to Brazil in the early twentieth century, by Japanese immigrants, although now, 60% of Japanese Brazilians are now Christian due to missionary activities and intermarriage. Nevertheless, Japanese Brazilian culture has a substantial Buddhist influence.\n\nThe first Jews arrived in Brazil as \"cristãos-novos\" (New Christians) or conversos, names applied to Jews or Muslims who converted to Catholicism, most of them forcibly. According to the Inquisition reports, many New Christians living in Brazil during colonial times were condemned for secretly observing Jewish customs.\n\nIn 1630, the Dutch conquered portions of northeast Brazil and permitted the open practice of any religion. Many Jews came from the Netherlands to live in Brazil in the area dominated by the Dutch. Most of them were descendants of the Portuguese Jews who had been expelled from Portugal in 1497. In 1636, the Kahal Zur Israel Synagogue, the first synagogue in the Americas was built in Recife, the capital of Dutch Brazil. The original building remains to this day, but the Jews were forced to leave Brazil when the Portuguese-Brazilians retook the land in 1654.\n\nThe first Jews that stayed in Brazil and openly practiced their religion came when the first Brazilian constitution granted freedom of religion in 1824, just after the independence. They were mainly Moroccan Jews, descendants of the Spanish and Portuguese Jews who had been expelled from Spain in 1492 and Portugal in 1497.\n\nThe first wave of Sephardic Jews was exceeded by the larger wave of immigration by Ashkenazi Jews that came at the end of the 19th and beginning of the 20th centuries, mainly from Russia, Poland, Belarus and Ukraine. A final significant group came, fleeing Nazism or the destruction that followed World War II.\n\nBrazil has the 9th largest Jewish community in the world, about 107,329 by 2010, according to the IBGE Census. The Jewish Confederation of Brazil (CONIB) estimates that there are more than 120,000 Jews in Brazil, with the lower figure representing active practitioners.\n\nAccording to the 2010 Census, there were 35,167 Muslims in Brazil. The Federation of Muslim Associations of Brazil estimates there are about 1.5 million Muslims and others say about .4 to .5 million. There are over 150 mosques in Brazil where Muslims perform their daily prayers. \n\nIslam in Brazil may be presumed to have first been practiced by African slaves brought from West Africa. Scholars note that Brazil received more enslaved Muslims than anywhere else in the Americas. During Ramadan, in January 1835, a small group of black slaves and freedmen from Salvador da Bahia, inspired by Muslim teachers, rose up against the government in the Malê Revolt, the largest slave rebellion in Brazil. (Muslims were called \"malê\" in Bahia at this time, from Yoruba \"imale\" that designated a Yoruba Muslim.) Fearing the example might be followed, the Brazilian authorities began to watch the \"malês\" very carefully and in subsequent years intensive efforts were made to force conversions to Catholicism and erase the popular memory of and affection towards Islam. However, the African Muslim community was not erased overnight, and as late as 1910 it is estimated there were still some 100,000 African Muslims living in Brazil.\n\nA recent trend has been the increase in conversions to Islam among non-Arab citizens.\n\nMost of the Brazilian Hindus are ethnic East Indians. However, there are new converts due to the missionary effects of Hare Krishnas.\n\nThere are 1,500 PIOs (People of Indian origin) and about 400 NRIs (Non-Resident Indian) in Brazil.\n\nA small number of Sindhis had arrived here from Suriname and Central America in 1960 to set up shop as traders in the city of Manaus.\n\nConsisted of university professors who arrived in the 190s and also in the 1970s.\n\nOther PIOs migrated to this country from various African countries, mainly from former Portuguese colonies (especially Mozambique), soon after their independence in the 1970s. The number of PIOs in Brazil has been augmented in recent years by the arrival of nuclear scientists and computer professionals.\n\nThere are as many as 1,500 PIOs among the Indian community in Brazil, and only 400 NRIs since foreign nationals can acquire local citizenship without any discrimination after 15 years of domicile in this country. Brazil has also no bar against dual citizenship. But in recent years, it has been granting immigration visas only in high technology fields. The only exceptions are the Sindhis in Manaus (who have formed an Indian Association with about a hundred members) and the Goans in São Paulo.\n\nBeside the PIOs, there are Hindu organizations such as ISKCON, Brahma Kumaris are very active in Brasil. The number of adherents of these organizations is not officially recorded but is estimated to be a few thousand.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Brazil started in 1919 with Bahá'ís first visiting the country that year, and the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly in Brazil was established in 1928. There followed a period of growth with the arrival of coordinated pioneers from the United States finding national Brazilian converts and in 1961 an independent national Bahá'í community was formed. During the 1992 Earth Summit, which was held in Brazil, the international and local Bahá'í community were given the responsibility for organizing a series of different programs, and since then the involvements of the Bahá'í community in the country have continued to multiply. The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on \"World Christian Encyclopedia\") estimated some 42211 Bahá'ís in 2005.\n\nA 2007 poll, made by \"Datafolha\" and published in newspaper Folha de S. Paulo, asked diverse questions about the beliefs of the Brazilian people. In this poll, 64% reported to be Catholics, 17% Pentecostal Protestants, 5% non-Pentecostal Protestants, 3% Kardecists or Spiritists, 3% followers of other religions, 7% non-religious or atheists. Less than 1% reported to follow Afro-Brazilian religions.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1307221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1307221", "title": "Reliquary", "text": "Reliquary\n\nA reliquary (also referred to as a \"shrine\" or by the French term \"châsse\") is a container for relics. These may be the purported or actual physical remains of saints, such as bones, pieces of clothing, or some object associated with saints or other religious figures. The authenticity of any given relic is often a matter of debate; for that reason, some churches require documentation of the relic's provenance.\n\nRelics have long been important to Buddhists, Christians, Hindus and many other religions. In these cultures, reliquaries are often presented in shrines, churches, or temples to which the faithful make pilgrimages in order to gain blessings. \n\nThe term is sometimes used loosely of containers for the body parts of non-religious figures; in particular the Kings of France often specified that their hearts and sometimes other organs be buried in a different location from their main burial.\n\nThe use of reliquaries became an important part of Christian practices from at least the 4th century, initially in the Eastern Churches, which adopted the practice of moving and dividing the bodies of saints much earlier than the West, probably in part because the new capital of Constantinople, unlike Rome, lacked buried saints. Relics are venerated in the Oriental Orthodox, Eastern Orthodox, Roman Catholic and some Anglican Churches. Reliquaries provide a means of protecting and displaying relics. While frequently taking the form of caskets, they range in size from simple pendants or rings to very elaborate ossuaries.\n\nSince the relics themselves were considered \"more valuable than precious stones and more to be esteemed than gold,\" it was only appropriate that they be enshrined in containers crafted of or covered with gold, silver, gems, and enamel. Ivory was widely used in the Middle Ages for reliquaries; its pure white color an indication of the holy status of its contents. These objects constituted a major form of artistic production across Europe and Byzantium throughout the Middle Ages.\n\nMany were designed with portability in mind, often being exhibited in public or carried in procession on the saint's feast day or on other holy days. Pilgrimages often centered on the veneration of relics. The faithful often venerate relics by bowing before the reliquary or kissing it. Those churches which observe the veneration of relics make a clear distinction between the honor given to the saints and the worship that is due to God alone (see Second Council of Nicea). The \"feretrum\" was a medieval form of reliquary or shrine containing the sacred effigies and relics of a saint. \n\nPerhaps the most magnificent example is that known as the Shrine of the Three Kings in Cologne Cathedral. After the storming of Milan in 1162 the supposed relics of the Magi were carried off and brought to Cologne, where a magnificent silver casket, nearly 6 feet long, and 4.5 feet high was constructed for them. This superb piece of silversmith's work resembles in outward form a church with a nave and two aisles.\n\nIn the late Middle Ages the craze for relics, many now fraudulent, became extreme, and was criticized by many otherwise conventional churchmen.\n\n16th-century reformers such as Martin Luther opposed the use of relics since many had no proof of historic authenticity, and they objected to the cult of saints. Many reliquaries, particularly in northern Europe, were destroyed by Calvinists or Calvinist sympathizers during the Reformation, being melted down or pulled apart to recover precious metals and gems. Nonetheless, the use and manufacture of reliquaries continues to this day, especially in Roman Catholic and Orthodox Christian countries. Post-Reformation reliquaries have tended to take the form of glass-sided caskets to display relics such as the bodies of saints.\n\nThe earliest reliquaries were essentially boxes, either simply box-shaped or based on an architectural design, taking the form of a model of a church with a pitched roof. These latter are known by the French term chasse, and typical examples from the 12th to 14th century have wooden frameworks with gilt-copper plaques nailed on, decorated in champlevé enamel. Limoges was the largest centre of production; NB the English usage differs from that of the French \"châsse\", which denotes large size rather than shape.\nRelics of the True Cross became very popular from the 9th century onwards and were housed in magnificent gold and silver cross-shaped reliquaries, decorated with enamels and precious stones. From about the end of the 10th century, reliquaries in the shape of the relics they housed also became popular; hence, for instance, the skull of Pope Alexander I was housed in a head-shaped reliquary. Similarly, the bones of saints were often housed in reliquaries that recalled the shape of the original body part, such as an arm or a foot.\n\nMany Eastern Orthodox reliquaries housing tiny pieces of relics have circular or cylindrical slots in which small disks of wax-mastic in which the actual relic is embedded.\n\nA philatory is a transparent reliquary designed to contain and exhibit the bones and relics of saints. This style of reliquary has a viewing portal by which to view the relic contained inside.\nDuring the later Middle Ages, the monstrance form, mostly used for consecrated hosts, was sometimes used for reliquaries. These housed the relic in a rock crystal or glass capsule mounted on a column above a base, enabling the relic to be displayed to the faithful. Reliquaries in the form of large pieces of metalwork jewellery also appeared around this time, housing tiny relics such as pieces of the Holy Thorn, notably the Holy Thorn Reliquary now in the British Museum.\n\nIn Buddhism, stupa are an important form of reliquary, and may be included in a larger complex known as a chaitya. Particularly in China and throughout East and Southeast Asia, these take the form of a pagoda; in Japan this is known as a \"tō\".\n\nIn Theravada Buddhism, relics are known as cetiya; one of the most significant in the relic of the tooth of the Buddha in Sri Lanka.\n\nIn Japan, Buddhist relics are known as , and are often stored in a – see Japanese Buddhist architecture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21057842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21057842", "title": "Samuel Jesi", "text": "Samuel Jesi\n\nSamuel Jesi (1789 – January 17, 1853) was an Italian engraver.\n\nHe was born in Milan in 1789, he was a pupil of Giuseppe Longhi at the Brera Academy of Milan. His first work (1821) was \"The Abandonment of Hagar\", engraved after a painting by Guercino in the Palazzo di Brera at Milan; this was followed (1834) by \"The Madonna with St. John and St. Stephen\", from a painting by Fra Bartolomeo in the Cathedral of Lucca. He then devoted himself to the works of Raphael, whom he ably interpreted. His masterpiece is the group representing Pope Leo X with Cardinals Rossi and Giulio dei Medici (1834). While in Paris for the purpose of having it printed he was elected a corresponding member of the Académie des Beaux-Arts, and received the ribbon of the Legion of Honor. In 1846 he began to work on his engraving of the \"Cœna Domini\", discovered in the Church of S. Onofrio, Florence, and attributed to Raphael. Meanwhile, he engraved the \"Madonna della Vite.\" In 1849 he completed the drawing of the \"Cœna Domini\", but died in Florence before finishing the engraving.\n\n"}
{"id": "694093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=694093", "title": "Seax-Wica", "text": "Seax-Wica\n\nSeax-Wica is a tradition, or denomination, of the neopagan religion of Wicca which is largely inspired by the iconography of the historical Anglo-Saxon paganism, though, unlike Theodism, it is not a reconstruction of the early mediaeval religion itself.\n\nThe tradition was founded in 1973 by Raymond Buckland, an English-born high priest of Gardnerian Wicca who moved to the United States in the 1970s. His book, \"The Tree\", was written with the intent for it to be a definitive guide to Seax-Wica, and was published in 1974 by Samuel Weiser, and subsequently republished in 2005 as \"Buckland's Book of Saxon Witchcraft\".\n\nThe tradition primarily honours four principal deities: Woden, Thunor, Frig or Freya and Tiw. These are seen as representations of the Wiccan deities of the Horned God and the Mother Goddess. The tradition uses a minimal set of ceremonial tools, including a spear. Runes are also significant.\nSeax-Wica does not employ any secrecy oath. \"Buckland's Book of Saxon Witchcraft\" was written in mind that the reader would already be well versed in the various techniques of Witchcraft and Wiccan ritual. However, Buckland has pointed out that his \"Complete Book of Witchcraft\" gives instructions on how to proceed when no tools are available. These instructions are enough to allow one to begin, self-initiate, and consecrate one's first tools.\nSeax-Wica allows self-dedication as entry into its tradition. In the Seax tradition, covens work by a form of democracy, electing, un-electing, and re-electing coven officers, the high priest and priestess. Within ritual settings, there are the thegn, a type of sergeant-at-arms/guard/watchman, who can also be responsible for the covenstead (the meeting place of the coven), or guarding a ceremony being performed; there is also a scribe/secretary, who keeps most, if not all, of the coven's records. The word \"\"Thegn\", or \"Thane\"\" is an Anglo-Saxon title (\"Anglo-Saxon\": þeg(e)n meaning \"a servant, one who does service for another.\")\n\nBuckland was not the head of the tradition, but is respected as its founder, and continued to practice and contribute to it, until his death on September 27, 2017.\n\nThe first elected steward of Seax Wica is Wulfeage (Sean Percival) on 2006, who was elected by covens worldwide and is still steward to this day.\n\n"}
{"id": "53617532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53617532", "title": "Seoul University of Buddhism", "text": "Seoul University of Buddhism\n\nSeoul University of Buddhism () is a university and graduate school in South Korea. It is headquartered in Geumcheon-gu, Seoul Metropolitan City and was established in 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "27226361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27226361", "title": "Sepa (priest)", "text": "Sepa (priest)\n\nSepa was an Ancient Egyptian, who lived during Third dynasty.\n\nSepa was a priest and noble. His titles were \"Responsible for Royal Matters\", \"Greatest of the ten of Upper Egypt\", \"Priest of the god Kherty\" and \"Herdsman of the White Bull\".\n\nSepa's wife was Nesa, and she was buried with him at Saqqara in a mastaba. Two statues of him and one of his wife were found in their grave and are now in the musée du Louvre in Paris. These statues are amongst the masterpieces of the art of the Old Kingdom.\n"}
{"id": "11443646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11443646", "title": "Should the Bible Be Banned", "text": "Should the Bible Be Banned\n\n\"Should The Bible Be Banned\" was the sixth single by McCarthy. Like many of the band's singles it did not appear on any of the band's studio albums. \n\nThe b-sides were \"St. Francis Amongst The Mortals\" and \"We Are All Bourgeois Now\". The latter was covered by Manic Street Preachers on their album \"Know Your Enemy\".\n\nThe title track recounts how someone is inspired to kill his brother by reading the story of Cain and Abel in the Bible. The song's aim is to reduce to absurdity calls to ban books and films following well-publicised acts of violence.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "31562932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31562932", "title": "Swiss 1JJ Tarot", "text": "Swiss 1JJ Tarot\n\nThe Swiss 1JJ Tarot deck is a 78-card deck used for the tarot card games Troccas and Troggu and also for divination.\n\nThe deck is derived from the Tarot de Besançon which itself comes from the Tarot of Marseilles. It is an Italian suited pack which substitutes the figures of Juno and Jupiter in place of the Popess and Pope of the Tarot of Marseilles. The first decks were made around 1860 by Johannes Müller in Diessenhofen. The face cards are not double-headed and both the trumps and pip cards use additive Roman numeral indexing. The lack of modern features like vertically symmetrical face cards, corner indices, and Arabic numerals has made this deck unpopular for tarot players outside of their native communities. For example, the French-speaking Swiss (Romands) prefer using the Tarot Nouveau to play French Tarot. It is still the official deck for Troccas tournaments.\n\nTroccas players use the French language version but refer to their cards with their Romansh (Rhæto-Romanic) nicknames. Troggu players use the German version. The English version uses cartomantic terminology. The names of the trump cards are as follows:\n"}
{"id": "48167679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48167679", "title": "Sze Yup Temple", "text": "Sze Yup Temple\n\nThe Sze Yup Temple (Chinese 四邑關帝廟) is a heritage-listed Chinese joss house and Taoist temple located at Victoria Road in the inner western Sydney suburb of Glebe in the City of Sydney local government area of New South Wales, Australia. It was built from 1898 to 1904. It is also known as Sze Yup Temple & Joss House, Sze Yup Kwan Ti Temple, Joss House and Chinese Temple. The property is owned by Trustees of the Sze Yup Temple. It was added to the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999. It is only four pre-World War I Chinese temples that remain active in Australia.\n\nThe temple venerates Kwan Ti (\"Guan Di\"), a military figure of the Three Kingdoms Period. Its form, and those of the grounds, reflect the architectural style of Sze Yup County (Siyi) in Guangdong, China. The central hall (1898) holds the Kwan Ti shrine, with the later eastern and western halls (1903) serving as an ancestral hall and hall dedicated to Caishen (\"Choi Buk Sing\", 財神), the god of wealth.\n\nThe Leichhardt area was originally inhabited by the Wangal clan of Aborigines. After 1788 diseases such as smallpox and the loss of their hunting grounds caused huge reductions in their numbers and they moved further inland. Since European settlement the foreshores of Blackwattle Bay and Rozelle Bay have developed a unique maritime, industrial and residential character - a character which continues to evolve as areas which were originally residential estates, then industrial areas, are redeveloped for residential units and parklands.\n\nThe fist formal grant in the Glebe area was a grant to Rev. Richard Johnson, the colony's first chaplain, in 1789. The Glebe (land allocated for the maintenance of a church minister) comprised rolling shale hills covering sandstone, with several sandstone cliff faces. The ridges were drained by several creeks including Blackwattle Creek, Orphan School Creek and Johnston Creek. Extensive swampland surrounded the creeks. On the shale ridges, heavily timbered woodlands contained several varieties of eucalypts while the swamplands and tidal mudflats had mangroves, swamp oaks (\"Casuarina glauca\") and blackwattles (\"Callicoma serratifolia\") after which the bay is named. Blackwattle Swamp was first mentioned by surveyors in the 1790s and Blackwattle Swamp Bay in 1807. By 1840 it was called Blackwattle Bay. Boat parties collected wattles and reeds for the building of huts, and kangaroos and emus were hunted by the early settlers who called the area the Kangaroo Ground. Rozelle Bay is thought to have been named after a schooner which once moored in its waters.\n\nJohnson's land remained largely undeveloped until 1828, when the Church and School Corporation subdivided it into 28 lots, three of which they retained for church use. The Church sold 27 allotments in 1828 - north on the point and south around Broadway. The Church kept the middle section where the Glebe Estate is now. Up until the 1970s the Glebe Estate was in the possession of the Church. On the point the sea breezes attracted the wealthy who built villas. The Broadway end attracted slaughterhouses and boiling down works that used the creek draining to Blackwattle Swamp. Smaller working-class houses were built around these industries. Abbattoirs were built there from the 1860s. When Glebe was made a municipality in 1859 there were pro and anti-municipal clashes in the streets. From 1850 Glebe was dominated by wealthier interests.\n\nReclaiming the swamp, Wentworth Park opened in 1882 as a cricket ground and lawn bowls club. Rugby union football was played there in the late 19th century. The dog racing started in 1932. In the early 20th century modest villas were broken up into boarding houses as they were elsewhere in the inner city areas. The wealthier moved into the suburbs which were opening up through the railways. Up until the 1950s Sydney was the location for working class employment - it was a port and industrial city. By the 1960s central Sydney was becoming a corporate city with service-based industries - capital intensive not labour intensive. A shift in demographics occurred, with younger professionals and technical and administrative people servicing the corporate city wanting to live close by. Housing was coming under threat and the heritage conservation movement was starting. The Fish Markets moved in in the 1970s. A influx of students came to Glebe in the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nMuch of Glebe, including the temple site, was acquired by lawyer George Allen (1800-77) in 1827. Allen named his estate Toxteth Park Estate and had a house designed by eminent colonial architect John Verge (1772-1861). The house was completed in 1834, named after the home of the family's friend Sir Robert Wigram. Toxteth Park was a rectangular two-storey block with single-storey wings, a stone-flagged verandah on two sides, with the kitchen and servants' quarters behind. During extensions in 1878-81 the ground floor was renovated, but the present-day long drawing-room and bay window retain many original features.\n\nThe son of a London physician who died in financial straits, Allen was brought to Australia by his widowed mother and became the first solicitor to be trained in this country. An active Wesleyan, he established what became a successful legal firm. He married Jane Bowden in 1823 and she produced five boys and five girls who survived infancy, the most noteworthy, historically, being George Wigram Allen in 1824. By 1831 he had acquired of Glebe land and commissioned John Verge to build Toxteth Park, the foundation stone for which was laid on 21 March 1829. Allen also led an active public life, serving as Mayor of Sydney (1844-45), President of the Bank of New South Wales (1860-66), MLC (1845-73) and Fellow of the Senate at the University of Sydney (1859-77). Today the legal firm of Allen, Allen & Hemsley still maintains a high profile in Sydney and their corporate contemporary art collection, exceeding 1,000 paintings, embraces the theme of \"art in the workplace\".\n\nSon of Jane and the previously-named George Allen, who was articled to his father, George Wigram Allen entered the law practice in 1847, which continued to expand as a thriving enterprise. He also inherited his father's enthusiasm for religion (helping to create the YMCA), public affairs, the University of Sydney Senate (1878-85) and business. G. W. Allen (1824-85) was involved in the incorporation of Glebe as a municipality, becoming its first Mayor in 1859, a post he held for 18 years. From 1869-82 he represented Glebe in the Legislative Assembly, was Speaker from 1875-82 and for these many services was knighted in 1884.\n\nDuring that time he sponsored the reclamation of Wentworth Park and, together with Edmund Blacket and Glebe Council members, was responsible for Glebe's water supply and gas lighting as well as the construction of new streets. The Allens, both father and son, were keen cricketers and built a private ground in what is now bounded by Glebe Point and Toxteth Roads and Mansfield and Boyce Streets. It was here that Frederick Spofforth, a great bowler who lived in Derwent Street, frequently played. Upon his father's death in 1877 G. W. Allen made extensive additions to Toxteth Park, when a third storey, tower and ballroom were added. However Sir George did not live so long after his father (he lived at Toxteth Park Estate until 1885) and subsequently this stalwart Wesleyan's house, in 1901, was sold to the Sisters of the Good Samaritan, a Benedictine Order, which is today St Scholastica's College. He had amassed a fortune of by the time of his death. Two nearby street names recall the first owners of the home - Wigram and Allen. The Toxteth Park Estate included Harold Park to the west and downhill from Toxteth Park Lodge. Harold Park was part of Allen's Toxteth Park Estate (now reduced and renamed St Scholastica's). Allen leased Harold Park to Joynton Smith who ran a small proprietary race track. It went to the Harness Racing Association in 1912.\n\nLady Allen's charitable interests helped to establish the Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children, which until quite recently focused on the health of Sydney's children - the hospital is now closed and the large site is developing into a new housing area to be known as the City Quarter.\n\nWhen Chinese settlers in Sydney decided to build a temple dedicated to the Chinese folk hero and god, Kwan Ti (sometimes Kwun Ti, or Kwung Ti), they prayed for a sign showing where the temple should be built. This led them to a market garden in Francis Street (now Edward Street) in Glebe which they purchased from the owner for . The temple was funded by immigrants from the area known as Sze Yup / Si Yi (Sze Yup), ('Four Districts') county of Guangdong /Kwongtung province, China.\n\nThe impetus to establish the Temple came from the Sze Yup community in NSW in the early 1890s, during a period of widespread hardship throughout the Australian community and a time of higher levels of racial tension. People from the Sze Yup County were regarded as being particularly religious. The proposal was supported by local Chinese organizations including the Chinese Masonic Society and well-known local figures including Johnny Moi Sing, Grandmaster of the Society. Advice was received from the Melbourne Sze Yup Temple Trustees. Funds were obtained from the Sze Yup Society levies, fundraising and donations.\n\nThe renowned Sze Yup Temple is dedicated to Kwan Ti, a warrior and patriot in the era of the Three Kingdoms 220 - 265 AD. Kwan Ti is famous for his loyalty, physical prowess and masculinity. In Australia, immigrant Chinese worshipped him as a wise judge, a guide and a protector. Many important business decisions, for example, were not made until Kwan Ti had been consulted for his guidance and blessing.\n\nThe central temple in the Sze Yup complex was built in 1898. The simple red brick cottage was designed with the principles of Feng Shui in mind; it was located on land that sloped from the temple to the waters of Rozelle Bay. Inside the central temple is an altar with embroidered images of Kwan Ti and his guards, racks which hold Kwan Ti's Red Hair Horse and weapons, engraved couplets, prayers, a huge drum and gong and two beautiful carved columns which date from 1898.\n\nLots 1 and 2 of the subdivision of Lot 23 of the Eglington Estate, the original Temple site, were purchased from Elizabeth Downes in 1897 for , close to a \"Chinamens garden\" (market gardens) that extended from the site northwest to Blackwattle Bay. The land formed part of the Toxteth Park (Allen) Estate, which remained substantially intact till the 1890s. The Estate created a pleasure ground setting with cricket ground, orchards and gardens.\n\nCovenants on the title explicitly required that any building to be erected on the land had to be \"in keeping with the condition of the surrounding properties already erected or being erected on the Toxteth Estate\", and \"would not depreciate the value of any...surrounding properties\".\n\nIt was clear that both vendor and purchasers understood that a Chinese temple was to be built on the land. The covenant stated that it \"should in no way be deemed to...refer to the erection of any house for the purpose of religion or Chinese joss house and caretakers residence which shall be properly and substantially built.\"\n\nA local builder (a Mr Stewart or Mr Stuart) built the central hall in 1898, and appears to have built the adjoining halls in 1903. A memorandum of agreement signed between the Trustees and an insurance manager for a mortgage refers to plans and specifications, which have not been located.\n\nA delegation from the Melbourne Sze Yup Temple attended the dedication of the Temple to Guan Di. The dedication of the 1903 halls and subsequent celebrations over three days was reported in \"The Sydney Mail\" of 3 February 1904, reporting great excitement amongst Chinese and European onlookers. Representatives of all major Chinese communities in Sydney attended.\n\nThe organiser of the celebrations, James Ah Chuey (Wong Chuey), was a well-known grazier and wool broker from the Riverina, grandmaster of the Chinese Masonic Society and Trustee from 1923 to 1948.\n\nIn 1904 the temple was flanked by two chapels, the Chapel of Departed Friends and the Chapel of Good Fortune.\n\nFor the Chinese community in Sydney the Sze Yup Temple was a cultural centre as well as a place for worship. It was here that they could find social contact and companionship, material assistance or accommodation for travellers, new migrants and the sick. Celebrations and festivals such as the colourful and lively Chinese New Year took place at the temple. It was also used to house the bones of the deceased, before they were taken to China in urns for permanent burial, as tradition demanded.\n\nOn 19 July 1985 a Permanent Conservation Order was made over the site. It was transferred to the State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999. After 100 years, the Sze Yup Temple remains a sacred place to the Chinese community. Worshippers now include new arrivals from Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan, China and, in particular, Indo-China.\n\nSubsequent purchases of adjoining lots were made as funds permitted to open the vista from the Temple to Blackwattle Bay for Guan Di. A third block (Lot 3) was purchased from Myles Augustus Downes in 1898, and the final block in front of the temple building (Lot 22) was purchased from Anne Pattison in 1918. Three cottages were erected and rented to provide for the temple upkeep.\n\nThe Temple Trustees represented the four Districts of Sze Yup. The responsibility for managing the Temple in the early years was rotated among the leading Sze Yup general stores in Sydney. The Temple Trustees were recorded as having modest occupations but appeared to be well-connected to the Chinese Masonic Society and the Yee Hing Society, the Chinese nationalist movement.\n\nThe Temple acted as a cultural centre for the Chinese community, providing opportunities for mutual assistance, social contact, religious observances, celebration of festivities, settlement of disputes, funeral arrangements and temporary accommodation for travellers. Bones of deceased settlers were stored in urns awaiting their return to China for permanent burial.\n\nAs the local Chinese population aged and dwindled during the years of the White Australia Policy, upkeep of the Temple became more difficult for the Trustees. Council rates were demanded until 1967. In 1951 Sydney City Council began to resume a part of the grounds (Lot 22) as a pre-school kindergarten, but after Trustee objections and involvement of the Chinese Consul-General, Council transferred the land back to the Trustees in 1955. The Sydney County Council resumed the eastern corner of the property for an electrical sub-station built in 1951. A fire in the central hall in 1952 damaged the roof structure, and the fabric of the building deteriorated before and after repairs in 1953-1954. The need for ongoing funding attracted developers and proposals were made during the 1960s to redevelop the lower end of the site. However these proposals did not proceed, and the uniqueness of the place was retained.\n\nFollowing refugee intakes from China and Vietnam and the repeal of the White Australia Policy in the 1970s, attendance at the Temple increased, and donations began to flow in. Fundraising by the Trustees in 1977 was successful, and by 1979 work was carried out to address fabric damage and meet the needs of the recently-arrived worshippers of Guan Di and Cai Bai Xing. Festivals grew in size and incense smoke in the temple became a health issue, so exhaust fans, new electrical wiring and lighting were installed.\n\nDebate had begun again in the 1970s about the future of the Temple buildings. Some recent worshippers believed that the Temple should be demolished and rebuilt as a larger modern structure to accommodate increasing numbers of visitors. Others wanted to modernise the existing structure with green glazed roof tiles imported from Taiwan. There was much criticism of the original corrugated tin roofs of the 1898-1903 buildings.\n\nThe newly-formed Heritage Council of NSW acting under the 1977 Heritage Act, believing that the original Glebe temple was a unique historical record and contributed to Australian society and culture, commenced negotiations with the Trustees to place a Permanent Conservation Order over the Temple and grounds, to ensure that this valuable legacy was retained for the whole community. The negotiations concluded in 1984 with a gazetted Permanent Conservation Order and an agreed Masterplan for future community development on the land in 1985 that respected the importance and values of the original temple buildings and grounds.\n\nThe continuing growth of worshippers following the 1979 upgrading attracted attention, and Taiwan representatives in Sydney offered a large donation to help build a large gateway and perimeter wall around the block (much to the disapproval of the local Peoples Republic of China representatives). The gateway and associated walling was completed and formally opened in 1983.\n\nThroughout the 1990s, debate continued over the roles of the Temple and a number of proposals for community uses were made. In 2003 Council refused a development application for a two storey community hall and office complex to the east of the Temple building, on the basis of over-development of the site, loss of heritage significance, anticipated traffic generation, and loss of significant curtilage and mature trees around the temple building. In 2008, a fire described as \"deliberately lit\" destroyed one of its buildings.\n\nThe site of the Sze Yup Temple is bounded on four sides by street frontage being Victoria Road, Edward Street, Eglington Lane and Edward Lane. The total site area is approximately .\n\nA masonry fence bounds the site and the main entrance gateway front Edward Street. A secondary pedestrian entry and vehicular access is from Eglington Lane.\n\nThe central temple in the Sze Yup complex is constructed of red-brick reminiscent of village temples in the southern provinces of China. Mounted above the entrance is a sign that reads \"The Temple of Kwan Ti\", dated the 29th year of Guangxu Emperor Kuang Shu. Planning of the three halls separated by external side passages and roofed with small scaled pitched roofs to open lightwells is a typical temple type. The front verandah has bullnosed roofing and cast iron columns. The brickwork detailing has been happily adapted from the Edwardian to echo traditional construction. Inside the temple is an altar with embroided images of Kwan Ti and his guards. Racks hold Kwan Ti's Red Hair Horse and weapons. Engraved couplets and prayers hang on the walls in front of a huge drum and gong. Two beautiful carved columns date from 1898 and were originally intended for one of the nearby chapels but was too tall. On the wall are four sets of couplets which praise the virtues of Kwan Ti and express wishes for peace and tranquillity.\n\nThe building as originally sited to a water aspect (Blackwattle Bay) and subsequent land purchased in front of the temple and the buildings demolished, provided an auspiciious setting for the temple. The importance attached to the concepts of \"Feng Shui\" in the temple and surroundings has prevented building to the front of the temple, and has a strong influence on the management of the site.\n\nThe central chapel is flanked by two chapels, the Chapel of Departed Friends (to the north) and the Chapel of Good Fortune (to the south). The site also contains toilet facilities in a separate structure adjacent to the temple (to the north-east) and a storage shed at the rear (south) of the temple.\n\nAs at 29 August 1997, the condition of the Template was excellent. The Temple fabric is in excellent condition and most of the elements that retain the place's significance have not been compromised. The original building curtilage remains, and many plantings exist from the early to mid-20th Century. The curtilage remains little disturbed. Late 20th Century changes to the place, such as the introduction of ventilation systems, replacement of a skylight and the construction of a new entrance gate, perimeter wall and small service buildings (eg. a new toilet block and storeroom), have enhanced the cultural values of the place with minor impact on historical values.\n\n\nAs at 31 January 2008, the Sze Yup Temple is an item of State heritage significance as a rare and intact example of a Chinese temple in Australia. It is one of only two remaining places of worship for ethnic Chinese in New South Wales that predates the 1960s. It is one of four early (pre-Word War 1) Chinese temples that remain active in Australia, the other being located at Alexandria, (Sydney), in South Melbourne and at Breakfast Creek, Brisbane. The Sze Yup Temple has been continuously used by the Chinese community since it was built, and is a focus for the identity of the Sze Yup community in NSW and for those involved with traditional Chinese culture and belief. This tradition, intact temple is considered to be of both local and international significance.\n\nThe Chinese community in Australia was instrumental, but unacknowledged, in the development of 19th Century Australian mining, agricultural, pastoral and furniture-making industries, and later in the growth of Australian import-export industries. In many parts of Australia in the 19th Century, Chinese at times exceeded numbers of European residents, leading to unique friendships and hostilities, particularly as economic-based competition.\n\nThe Temple and its extensive grounds reflect the architectural forms and landscaping of the Sze Yup County in Guangdong Province, China. The building form reflects that of many \"village\" temples of this area. The Glebe Temple successfully adapted local materials and construction techniques, and its fabric is in excellent condition.\n\nThe Temple and grounds demonstrate elements of the belief system of \"feng shui\" in the location, forms and orientation of built and landscape elements, and in the extended visual curtilage of the site to Rozelle Bay and Balmain in the north-west.\n\nThe Temple is dedicated to Guan Di (Kwan Ti), a virtuous and revered military figure of the Three Kingdoms Period (AD220-AD280). Guan Di is worshipped widely throughout the Chinese diaspora. The Temple is well-known for its accumulated \"good luck\".\n\nThe 1898 central hall accommodated the Guan Di shrine, and the 1903 eastern and western halls respectively accommodate an ancestral hall, and a hall dedicated to Cai Bai Xing (Choi Buk Sing), the popular god of wealth. Families with memorial plaques in the Ancestral Hall, or those donating funds or images to the place retain a close connection with the Temple.\n\nThe Temple and grounds provide a venue for large community celebrations through the year, as well as serving the needs of individual worshippers. Over time a number of Chinese organizations maintaining traditional Chinese cultural activities such as martial arts and lion dances, use the place for practice and performance, supporting the Temple's ongoing role as a community focus for the local Chinese community.\n\nSze Yup Temple was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999 having satisfied the following criteria.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating the course, or pattern, of cultural or natural history in New South Wales.\n\nThe site has evidence of continuous Chinese occupation at least since the 1880s when a Chinese market garden was shown at this location. The place and setting and its contents informs us of the largely undocumented life of the Chinese community in Australia from the late 19th Century.\n\nThe 1898-1904 Glebe Sze Yup Kwan Ti temple is the only actively-used pre World War One Chinese temple in Australia to retain its original setting and visual curtilage. (Other active pre World War one temples in urban areas have lost their original rural outlook, such as the Alexandria Yiu Ming temple, the Melbourne Sze Yup temple, or the San Sheng Guan temple in Breakfast Creek, Brisbane).\n\nThe place has a strong or special association with a person, or group of persons, of importance of cultural or natural history of New South Wales's history.\n\nThe Temple has special associations with the Sze Yup Chinese community in NSW and other states, the Sze Yup counties in Guangdong Province providing one of the largest sources of immigrants to Australia in the 19th Century.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating aesthetic characteristics and/or a high degree of creative or technical achievement in New South Wales.\n\nThe temple building is a rare example of a traditional 3 hall temple layout with Edwardian-influenced building elements and detailing demonstrating local cultural adaption, such as corrugated iron roofs, and a bull-nosed corrugated iron porch roof supported by cast iron columns.\n\nThe interior fittings and objects sourced from China represent excellent examples of late 19th Century Chinese decorative arts. As many similar pieces have been damaged or destroyed over the past century in China and elsewhere, the aesthetic significance of this material is very high.\n\nThe temple siting amongst mature culturally-significant trees and its prospect to the waters of Blackwattle Bay, provides a rare and intact demonstration of 'feng shui'- traditional geomantic practices in planning.\n\nThe place has a strong or special association with a particular community or cultural group in New South Wales for social, cultural or spiritual reasons.\n\nThe Sze Yup temple has remained a cultural, religious and social centre for the Sze Yup community and others since 1898. The role of the Trustees in assisting community members extended to temporary accommodation, financial support and help in maintaining contact with families in China. The Trustees arranged for the storage and transport of the bones of Sze Yup-born \"sojourners\" to China for permanent burial.\n\nThe temple strongly communicates a sense of community identity and continuity. Painted and carved panels inside the halls list original donors to the Temple, and some in the community are able to identify forebears and relatives.\n\nFollowing the repeal of restrictive immigration legislation in the early 1970s, the temple now provides a cultural and religious centre for many ethnic Chinese settlers displaced from Vietnam and nearby countries. The temple has become well-known for its accumulated \"good luck\" attributed to its favourable setting for its \"gods\" and ancestral tablets.\n\nThe place has potential to yield information that will contribute to an understanding of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.\n\nThe temple building demonstrates technical adaption to local conditions and materials, and the building's layout, landscape, built elements, fixtures, fittings and decorations, are areas for future research into the cultural and spiritual significance of Chinese beliefs.\n\nThere is potential archaeological material in the immediate surroundings of the temple and grounds that may provide information on Chinese occupation of this area prior to 1898, and of Chinese occupation from 1900 to the 1970s.\n\nThe layout and siting of the temple building retains evidence of the application of the traditional Chinese belief system of feng shui. Elements of feng shui include the retention of visual cartilages particularly the temple's north-western outlook to the skyline and to water the placement and spatial relationship of structures and planting, and the building's orientation and scale. This aspect has lead to the place's increasing cultural significance over time, as the accumulated \"good\" feng shui of the place becomes wider-known.\n\nThe place possesses uncommon, rare or endangered aspects of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.\n\nThe Glebe Sze Yup temple is the only extant 19th Century Chinese temple in NSW, and one of five intact 19th Century temple structures known in Australia. The others are at Atherton, Breakfast Creek, South Melbourne and Bendigo. The Glebe Sze Yup temple is the only active, early Chinese temple in Australia to retain its original setting and visual curtilage. The temple has been continuously-used by the Chinese community since 1898.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating the principal characteristics of a class of cultural or natural places/environments in New South Wales.\n\nThe building demonstrates the three hall layout common to many southern Chinese village or small town temples. The one hall and three hall layouts were in evidence in all the Chinese temples that were built to serve 19th Century Chinese communities in Australia.\n\nThe temple's built form reflects the scale and simple decorative characteristics of temples in the Sze Yup ('4 counties') area of Guangdong Province, and south of the Provincial capital, Guangzhou. The Yiu Ming temple at Alexandria, by comparison, demonstrates distinctly different applied forms and decorations.\n\n"}
{"id": "1328930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1328930", "title": "Síyáh-Chál", "text": "Síyáh-Chál\n\nSíyáh-Chál ( literally \"black pit\") is the common word in Persian language for \"dungeon\".\n\nHistorically, siyah-chals were used as a harsher form of incarceration. Typically, such dungeons had no windows or outlets, other than the entrance, consisting of a short stairway into the ground.\n\nIn Bahá'í history the \"Síyáh-Chál\" refers to the dungeon south east of the palace of the Sháh and near the Sabzih-Maydán in Tehran where Bahá'u'lláh, founder of the Bahá'í Faith, was in captivity in 1852, together with about 30 other Bábí's if not more. He claimed that here he had a vision of a Maid of Heaven, through whom he received his mission as a Manifestation of God and as the One whose coming the Báb had prophesied. He described his experiences in the \"Epistle to the Son of the Wolf\" and \"Súriy-i-Haykal\". It was also the place where he composed his first known tablet, the Rashh-i-'Amá.\n\nIn 1868 the dungeon was filled-in and the Tikyíh Dowlat, an opera house, was built over the site. The site was Bahá'í property from 1954 until the Islamic Revolution of 1979. It has been described by Shoghi Effendi as the second holiest Bahá'í site in Iran.\n"}
{"id": "49053263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49053263", "title": "Temporale", "text": "Temporale\n\nThe temporale ( or ) is one of the two main cycles that, running concurrently, comprise the Liturgical year in Roman Catholicism, defined by the General Roman Calendar. (The other cycle is the \"sanctorale\".) The term comes into English from medieval Latin \"temporāle\" (from \"tempus\" 'time').\n\nThe \"temporale\" consists of the movable feasts, most of them keyed to Easter (which falls on a different Sunday every year), including Ascension, Pentecost (Whitsun), and so on. The \"sanctorale\" consists of the fixed feasts, celebrated on the very same date each year (no matter what the day of the week), including Christmas and all the saints' days.\n\nThe \"temporale\" is also known as the proper of time, with \"proper\" a noun in the sense 'that part of the Eucharist or liturgical offices which is varied according to the calendar or the particular occasion; an office or part of an office, as a psalm, lesson, etc., or portion of the Eucharist, appointed for a particular occasion or season'.\n\nBecause the events of \"sanctorale\" and the \"temporale\" do not occur in the same order every year, the two cycles are often written separately in liturgical books, specifically that section of the Missal known as the Breviary.\n\nProminent events in the \"temporale\" are: \"Lent\" (including Ash Wednesday, Palm Sunday of the Passion of the Lord, and Holy Week); the Paschal Triduum (including Good Friday, Holy Saturday, the Easter Vigil and Easter Sunday); and \"Easter Time\" (the fifty days from Easter Sunday to Pentecost Sunday).\n"}
{"id": "48769492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48769492", "title": "Tfail", "text": "Tfail\n\nTfail () is a village in eastern Baalbek District, Baalbek-Hermel Governorate, Lebanon. It is one of the highest villages in Lebanon. It has a population of about 3,000 Sunni residents and is the most remote village in Lebanon, lying at the tip of a finger of territory that juts into Syria.\n\nOn 1 May 2014, Tfail was the target of Syrian barrel bomb attacks. During the Qalamoun offensive (June–August 2014), the village was surrounded by Hezbollah and Syrian Army forces. Tfail is also considered one of the highest villages in Lebanon with an elevation of 1660 meters.\n"}
{"id": "12750843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12750843", "title": "The Book of Ceremonial Magic", "text": "The Book of Ceremonial Magic\n\nThe Book of Ceremonial Magic by Arthur Edward Waite was originally called The Book of Black Magic and of Pacts. It was first published in a limited run in 1898, and distributed more widely under the title \"The Book of Ceremonial Magic\" in 1910. It is an attempt to document various famous grimoires, explain the history behind them (refuting many of the legends surrounding them), discuss the theology contained therein (e.g. raising the question why good angels would be summoned to kill an enemy), and to synthesize many famous grimoires into one system.\n\n"}
{"id": "5938299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5938299", "title": "The Detroit Jewish News", "text": "The Detroit Jewish News\n\nThe Detroit Jewish News is a weekly community newspaper serving the Jewish community of Metro Detroit in Michigan. Jewish Renaissance Media publishes the newspaper. The publication's headquarters are in Southfield.\n\nIt bills itself as \"the largest, most comprehensive Jewish newspaper in North America.\" The newspaper was founded in 1942. In the 1980s it was purchased by Charles \"Chuck\" Buerger, the owner of the \"Baltimore Jewish Times\". Buerger expanded the scope and the size of the paper, and it regularly exceeded 200 pages. Buerger died in 1996, and the paper was taken over by his son Andrew. In 2000 Andrew Buerger sold it, along with \"The Atlanta Jewish Times\", to Jewish Renaissance Media, which also operates the website Jewish.com. In 2005 the newspaper claimed an \"adult readership of more than 40,000 every week\". In 2005 the newspaper won a number of Michigan Press Association awards, including first place for Design, Editorial Writing, Local Columnist, and Special Section, and first and second place for Feature Story. , Arthur M. Horwitz was the publisher and executive editor, and Jackie Headapohl was the managing editor of The Detroit Jewish News and Red Thread (magazine insert).\n\nIn 2011, The Detroit Jewish News Foundation was created to digitally archive over 100 years of news involving Detroit's Jewish Community. Through its William Davidson Digital Archive of Jewish Detroit History, is the Michigan Jewish community’s indispensable source of primary information that educates, illuminates and makes relevant the community’s past, strengthens its present and shapes its future. The foundation fortifies links to family and community by providing visitors to the William Davidson Digital Archive of Jewish Detroit History a first-class, innovative, enjoyable multi-media experience. The backbone of the William Davidson Digital Archive of Jewish Detroit History is the entire contents of the Detroit Jewish News (1942-present) and the Detroit Jewish Chronicle (1916-1951). Collectively, they span approximately 100 consecutive years of community and family history. The Detroit Jewish News Foundation is an independent 501 (c)(3) non-profit organization. It was formed in 2011 to pursue an educational, cultural and scholarly mission focusing on illuminating the ongoing story of the Detroit area Jewish community and its families. In support of this mission, the foundation digitized and made available the entire contents of the Detroit Jewish News in November of 2013. It digitized and made available the entire contents of the Detroit Jewish Chronicle in October of 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "484766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=484766", "title": "Well of Souls", "text": "Well of Souls\n\n\"This article describes the cave in Jerusalem. For the series of novels by Jack Chalker see Well World.\"\n\nThe Well of Souls ( \"Bir al-Arwah\"; sometimes translated Pit of Souls, Cave of Spirits, or Well of Spirits in Islam), also known in Christianity and Judaism as the Holy of Holies, is a partly natural, partly man-made cave located inside the Foundation Stone under the Dome of the Rock shrine in Jerusalem. The name Well of Souls derives from a medieval Islamic legend that at this place the spirits of the dead can be heard awaiting Judgment Day. The name \"Well of Souls\" has also been applied more narrowly to a depression in the floor of this cave and to a hypothetical chamber that may exist beneath the floor.\n\nFor Christians, the site is known as the Holy of Holies (alluding to the former inner sanctuary within the Temple in Jerusalem) and is venerated as a possible site of the annunciation of John the Baptist, since Luke says it happened in the Temple. The site has never been subject to an archeological investigation and political and diplomatic sensitivities currently preclude this.\n\nThe Dome of the Rock — called \"Qubbat as-Sakhrah\" in Arabic and \"Kipat Hasela\" in Hebrew — is an early medieval Muslim shrine on Temple Mount, known as \"Har haBáyith\" (\"temple mount\") in Hebrew and as the \"Haram Ash-Sharif\" (\"noble sanctuary\") in Arabic. The exposed bedrock directly under the dome — known as the Foundation Stone — is the spot upon which Jewish tradition says Abraham prepared to sacrifice his son Isaac and from which Islamic tradition also indicates Muhammad ascended to heaven. (According to a medieval Islamic tradition, the Stone tried to follow Muhammad as he ascended, leaving his footprint here while pulling up and hollowing out the cave below. The impression of the hand of the Archangel Gabriel, made as he restrained the Stone from rising, is nearby.) The Stone — known as \"Even haShetiya\" in Hebrew and \"es-Sakhrah\" in Arabic — is considered the holiest site in Judaism and the third holiest in Islam.\n\nBoth Jewish and Muslim traditions relate to what may lie beneath the Foundation Stone, the earliest of them found in the Talmud in the former and understood to date to the 12th and 13th centuries in the latter. The Talmud indicates that the Stone marks the center of the world and serves as a cover for the Abyss (\"Abzu\") containing the raging waters of the Flood.. The cave was venerated as early as 902 according to Ibn al-Faqih. Muslim tradition likewise places it at the center of the world and over a bottomless pit with the flowing waters of Paradise underneath. A palm tree is said to grow out of the River of Paradise here to support the Stone. Noah is said to have landed here after the Flood. The souls of the dead are said to be audible here as they await the Last Judgment, although this is not a mainstream view in Sunni Islam.\n\nThe Foundation Stone and its cave entered fully into the Christian tradition after the Crusaders recaptured Jerusalem in 1099. These Europeans converted the Dome of the Rock into a church, calling it the Templum Domini (Latin, \"Temple of the Lord\"). They made many radical physical changes to the site at this time, including cutting away much of the rock to make staircases and paving the Stone over with marble slabs. They certainly enlarged the main entrance of the cave and probably are also responsible for creating the shaft ascending from the center of the chamber. The Crusaders called the cave the \"Holy of Holies\" and venerated it as the site of the announcement of John the Baptist's birth. (Modern scholarship indicates that the Temple Holy of Holies was probably on top of the Foundation Stone, not inside it.)\n\nIn 1871, Jerusalem was visited by the explorer and Arabist Sir Richard Francis Burton. Lady Burton later described their exploration of the Well of Souls as tourists:\n\nA flight of fifteen steps takes us into the cave under this Rock. This feature has been immensely written about. I shall content myself with saying that Captain Burton holds it to be the original granary of the corn threshed, or rather trodden out, upon the plain on either side, and winnowed from the Rock. If the latter prove to be the great Altar of Sacrifice, the cave will be the cistern for the blood which ran off by the Bir el Arwáh (Well of Souls) into the Valley of Hinnom. My husband did his best to procure the opening of the hollow-sounding slab in the centre, but the time has not yet come. The more ignorant Moslems believe that the Sakhrah is suspended in the air, and its only support is a palm tree, held by the mothers of the two greatest prophets, Mohammed and Abraham. The most projecting point is called \"the Tongue,\" because, when Omar thought he had discovered the stone which was Jacob's pillar in his vision at Bethel, he exclaimed, \"Es Salámo Alaykúm\" (\"Peace be unto thee\"), and the stone replied, \"Alaykúm us Salám, wa Rahmat-Ullahi\" (\"Peace be to thee, and the mercy of God\"). The Shaykhs of the Mosque explained everything to us, even the minutest trifle, and showed us the places where Solomon prayed, and also David, and where Abraham and Elijah and Mohammed met on the occasion of his night flight upon El Borák. They also made an echo for us, and told us that there was a hollow place beneath the Bir el Arwáh before mentioned, where every Friday the departed souls come to adore Allah.\n\nThe entrance to the cave is at the southeast angle of the Foundation Stone, beside the southeast pier of the Dome of the Rock shrine. Here a set of 16 new marble steps descend through a cut passage thought to date to Crusader times. On the way down, bedrock masses project in towards the stair; the one to the right is called \"the tongue\". (According to legend, the Stone answered Caliph 'Umar I when he addressed it.) To the left (south) as one descends is a prayer niche dedicated to David with a trefoil arch supported by miniature marble twisted-rope columns. To the right is a shallower, but ornately decorated, prayer niche dedicated to Solomon. This \"mihrab\" is certainly one of the oldest in the world, considered to date at least back to the late 9th century. (Some even suggest that it dates back to the 7th century and to the time of Abd al-Malik, builder of the Dome of the Rock — making it the oldest in the world — but this is disputed.)\n\nThe cave chamber is roughly square, about 6 meters on a side, and ranges from 1.5 to 2.5 meters (about 4.9 to ~8.2 feet) high. To the north is a small shrine dedicated to Abraham and to the northwest another dedicated to Elijah. The chamber is supplied with electric lighting and fans.\n\nAt the center of the ceiling is a shaft, 0.46 meter in diameter, which penetrates 1.7 meters up to the surface of the Stone above. (It has been proposed that this is the 4,000-year-old remnant of a shaft tomb. Another theory is that it represents a Crusader \"chimney\" cut for ventilation to accommodate lighted shrine candles. Still others have tried to make a case that it was part of a drainage system for the blood of sacrifices from the Temple altar. There are no rope marks within the shaft, so it has been concluded that it was never used as a well, with the cave as cistern.) The ceiling of the cave appears natural, while the floor has been long ago paved with marble and carpeted over.\n\n\nThey say that on the night of his Ascension into heaven, the Prophet, peace and blessing be upon him, prayed first at the Dome of the Rock, laying his hand upon the Rock. As he went out, the Rock, to do him honour, rose up, but he laid his hand on it to keep it in its place and firmly fixed it there. But by reason of this rising up, it is even to this present day partly detached from the ground beneath.\n\n\n"}
