{"id": "12406455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12406455", "title": "1963 in radio", "text": "1963 in radio\n\nThe year 1963 in radio involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31013543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31013543", "title": "A Million Wild Acres", "text": "A Million Wild Acres\n\nA Million Wild Acres: 200 years of man and an Australian forest is a non-fiction book written by Eric Charles Rolls (1923–2007). It was first published in Melbourne by Nelson in 1981. \"A Million Wild Acres\" is not just a regional history of what is now known as the Pilliga Scrub, but also a history of European settlement in Australia.\n\nThe book won The Age Book of the Year (1981), C.J. Dennis Prize and Talking Book of the Year.\n\n\nWatermark Literary Society https://web.archive.org/web/20110219162616/http://www.watermarkliterarysociety.asn.au/\n\nWyndham, Susan. Author Rolls dies aged 84 Sydney Morning Herald 02/11/2007 \n\nHanley, Penelope. Creative lives: personal papers of Australian writers and artists\n\nMosman Readers: Eric Rolls - A Million Wild Acres 26/01/2009 \n\nRolls later qualified this book's debated overall position on Australian tree densities and land clearing.\n\nWhat lies beyond us? The literature of landscape http://www.abc.net.au/radionational/programs/bigideas/what-lies-beyond-us3f3a-the-litertaure-of-landscape/5853552\n"}
{"id": "456826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=456826", "title": "Aloha shirt", "text": "Aloha shirt\n\nThe Aloha shirt, commonly referred to as a Hawaiian shirt, is a style of dress shirt originating in Hawaii. It is currently the premier textile export of the Hawaii manufacturing industry. The dress shirts are printed, mostly short-sleeved, and collared. They usually have buttons, sometimes for the entire length of the dress shirt and sometimes just down to the chest (pullover). Aloha dress shirts usually have a left chest pocket sewn in, often with attention to ensure the printed pattern remains continuous. Aloha shirts may be worn by men or women; women's Aloha shirts usually have a lower-cut, v-neck style. The lower hem is straight since the shirts are not meant to be tucked in.\n\nAloha shirts exported to the mainland United States and elsewhere are called Hawaiian shirts, and are often brilliantly colored with floral patterns or generic Polynesian motifs. They are worn as casual, informal wear.\n\nTraditional men's Aloha shirts, manufactured for local Hawaiian residents, are usually adorned with traditional Hawaiian quilt designs, tapa designs, and simple floral patterns in more muted colors. Contemporary Aloha shirts may have prints that do not feature any traditional Hawaiian quilt or floral designs but instead may incorporate drinks, palm trees, surf boards or other island tropical elements arranged in the same pattern as a traditional Aloha shirt.\n\nAloha shirts manufactured for local use are considered formal wear in business and government and are thus regarded as equivalent to a shirt, coat, and tie (generally impractical in the warmer climate of Hawaii) in all but the most formal of settings. Malihini (newcomers) and tourists (visitors) often wear designs of many bright colors, while Kamaʻāina (or those who have been living on the islands for a long time) seem to prefer less busy patterns. These shirts are often printed on the interior, resulting in the muted color on the exterior, and are called \"reverse print\". Those not familiar with this practice might consider it to be a manufacturing defect because the shirt appears to be sewn together inside-out.\n\nThe related concept of \"Aloha Attire\" stems from the Aloha shirt. Semi-formal functions such as weddings, birthday parties, and dinners are often designated as \"Aloha Attire\", meaning that men wear Aloha shirts and women wear muumuu or other tropical prints. Because Hawaii tends to be more casual, it is rarely appropriate to attend such functions in full evening wear like on the mainland; instead, Aloha Attire is seen as the happy medium between excessive formality and casual wear (i.e., business casual). \"Aloha Friday\", a now-common tradition of celebrating the end of the workweek by wearing more casual attire on Fridays, initially grew out of an effort to promote Aloha shirts. Although it is not uncommon to see professional women participating in Aloha Friday, it is more common to see men dressing this way.\n\nAccording to \"The Honolulu Advertiser\"'s advertisement of June 28, 1935, the Aloha Shirt was first sold at \"Musashi-ya shoten\" in Honolulu, was preceded as \"Musashi-ya\", established by Japanese immigrant Chōtarō Miyamoto (宮本長太郎) in 1904. After Miyamoto’s death, in 1915, the shop was revised as \"Musashiya shoten\" (Japanese title: 武蔵屋呉服店 (Musashi-ya-gofukuten) by his son Kōichirō Miyamoto, who sewed Aloha shirt using Japanese Kimono fabrics and sold it first.\nThe modern Aloha shirt was devised in the early 1930s by Chinese merchant Ellery Chun of King-Smith Clothiers and Dry Goods, a store in Waikiki. The first advertisement in \"The Honolulu Advertiser\" for Chun's Aloha shirt was published on June 28, 1935. Local residents, especially surfers, and tourists descended on Chun's store and bought every shirt he had. Within years, major designer labels sprung up all over Hawaii and began manufacturing and selling Aloha shirts en masse. By the end of the 1930s, 450 people were employed in an industry worth $600,000 annually. Retail chains in Hawaii, including mainland based ones, may mass-produce a single aloha shirt design for employee uniforms.\n\nAfter World War II, many servicemen and servicewomen returned to the United States from Asia and the Pacific islands with aloha shirts made in Hawaii since the 1930s. Tourists began flocking to Hawaii in the 1950s as faster airplanes allowed for easier travel and the former U.S. territory became a state in 1959. Alfred Shaheen, a textile manufacturer, revolutionized the garment industry in postwar Hawaii by designing, printing and producing aloha shirts and other ready-to-wear items under one roof. The tropical-print shirts for men and sundresses for women became standard and sometimes tacky souvenirs for travelers, but Shaheen raised the garments to the level of high fashion with artistic prints, high-grade materials and quality construction. Tori Richard is a brand of these shirts, established in Honolulu in late 1956.\nElvis Presley wore a Shaheen-designed red aloha shirt featured on the album cover for the \"Blue Hawaii\" soundtrack in 1961.\n\nIn 1946, the Honolulu Chamber of Commerce funded a study of aloha shirts and designs for comfortable business clothing worn during the hot Hawaiian summers. The City and County of Honolulu passed a resolution allowing their employees to wear sport shirts from June–October. City employees were not allowed to wear aloha shirts for business until the creation of the Aloha Week festival in 1947. The Aloha Week festival was motivated by both cultural and economic concerns: First held at Ala Moana Park in October, the festival revived interest in ancient Hawaiian music, dancing, sports, and traditions. There was a holoku ball, a floral parade, and a makahiki festival attended by 8,000 people. Economically, the week-long event first attracted visitors during October - traditionally a slow month for tourism - which benefited the Hawaiian fashion industry as they supplied the muʻumuʻu and aloha shirts worn for the celebration. Aloha Week expanded in 1974 to six islands, and was lengthened to a month. In 1991, Aloha Week was renamed to Aloha Festivals.\n\nIn the end, Aloha Week had a direct influence on the resulting demand for alohawear, and was responsible for supporting local clothing manufacturing: locals needed the clothing for the festivals, and soon people in Hawaii began wearing the clothing in greater numbers on more of a daily basis. Hawaii's fashion industry was relieved, as they were initially worried that popular clothing from the mainland United States would eventually replace aloha attire.\n\nIn 1962, a professional manufacturing association known as the Hawaiian Fashion Guild began to promote aloha shirts and clothing for use in the workplace, particularly as business attire. In a campaign called \"Operation Liberation\", the Guild distributed two aloha shirts to every member of the Hawaii House of Representatives and the Hawaii Senate. Subsequently, a resolution passed in the Senate recommending aloha attire be worn throughout the summer, beginning on Lei Day. The wording of the resolution spoke of letting \"the male populace return to 'aloha attire' during the summer months for the sake of comfort and in support of the 50th state's garment industry.\"\n\nIn 1965, Bill Foster, Sr., president of the Hawaii Fashion Guild, led the organization in a campaign lobbying for \"Aloha Friday\", a day employers would allow men to wear aloha shirts on the last business day of the week a few months out of the year. Aloha Friday officially began in 1966, and young adults of the 1960s embraced the style, replacing the formal business wear favored by previous generations. By 1970, aloha wear had gained acceptance in Hawaii as business attire for any day of the week. Unlike the court dress required in most jurisdictions, attorneys in Hawaii may be allowed to wear aloha shirts in court, though this varies among individual courts.\n\nHawaii's custom of Aloha Friday slowly spread east to California, continuing around the globe until the 1990s, when it became known as Casual Friday. Today in Hawaii, alohawear is worn as business attire for any day of the week, and \"Aloha Friday\" is generally used to refer to the last day of the work week. Now considered Hawaii's term for \"Thank God It's Friday\" (TGIF), the phrase was used by Kimo Kahoano and Paul Natto in their 1982 song, \"It's Aloha Friday, No Work 'til Monday\", heard every Friday on Hawaii radio stations across the state.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "717848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=717848", "title": "Apostolic Age", "text": "Apostolic Age\n\nThe Apostolic Age of the history of Christianity is traditionally regarded as the period of the Twelve Apostles, dating from the Great Commission of the Apostles by the risen Jesus in Jerusalem around 33 AD until the death of the last Apostle, believed to be John the Apostle in Anatolia c. 100. Traditionally, the Apostles are believed to have dispersed from Jerusalem, founding the Apostolic Sees. It holds special significance in Christian tradition as the age of the direct apostles of Jesus Christ. One major primary source for the \"Apostolic Age\" is the Acts of the Apostles, but its historical accuracy is questioned by some and its coverage is partial, focusing especially from onwards on the ministry of Paul (an apostle to the Gentiles, but not one of the original twelve apostles – Rom. 1:1; 11:13) and his companions, and ending around 62 AD with Paul preaching in Rome under house arrest.\n\nAccording to most scholars, the followers of Jesus were composed principally from apocalyptic Jewish sects during the late Second Temple period of the 1st century. Some Early Christian groups were strictly Jewish, such as the Ebionites and the early-church leaders in Jerusalem, collectively called Jewish Christians. During this period, they were led by James the Just. According to , they described themselves as 'disciples of the Lord' and [followers] 'of the Way', and according to a settled community of disciples at Antioch were the first to be called 'Christians'.\n\nSaul of Tarsus, commonly known as Paul the Apostle, persecuted the early Jewish Christians, such as Saint Stephen, then converted and adopted the title of \"Apostle to the Gentiles\" and started proselytizing among the Gentiles. He persuaded the leaders of the Jerusalem Church to allow Gentile converts exemption from most Jewish commandments at the Council of Jerusalem.\n\nAccording to the \"Oxford Dictionary of the Christian Church\", Paul's influence on Christian thinking is more significant than any other New Testament author; however, the relationship of Paul the Apostle and Judaism is still disputed today (see the link for details). After the Destruction of the Second Temple in AD 70 during the First Jewish-Roman War, or at the latest following the Bar Kokhba revolt of 132, Jerusalem ceased to be the center of the Christian church, and its bishops became \"suffragans\" (subordinates) of the Metropolitan bishop of Caesarea. In the 2nd century, Christianity established itself as a predominantly Gentile religion that spanned the Roman Empire and beyond.\n\nThe apostolic period between the years 30 and 100 produced writings attributed to the immediate followers of Jesus Christ. The period is traditionally associated with the apostles, hence the tags \"apostolic times\" and \"apostolic writings\". The early church associated the New Testament books with the apostles. Modern \"liberal\" scholarship has cast doubt on the authorship of some New Testament books—however, most accept that the New Testament books were written during this period. In the traditional (and scholastically accepted) history of the Christian church, the Apostolic Age was the foundation of the church's history.\n\nThe \"Apostolic Age\" is particularly significant in Restorationism, which claims that the period exhibited a purer form of Christianity that should be restored to the church as it exists today.\n\nThe unique character of the New Testament writings, and their period of origin, is highlighted by the paucity of their literary form in later writing. Once the canon of the New Testament began to take shape, the style ceased to be used on a regular basis. Non-canonical writings persisted, but died out within a historically short period of time. Early patristic literature is dominated by apologetics and makes use of other literary forms borrowed from non-Christian sources.\n\nThe relatives of Jesus lived in Nazareth since the 1st century. Some of them were prominent early Christians. Among those named in the New Testament are his mother and four of his brothers: James, Simeon, Joseph and Jude. According to the Gospels, some of the family opposed the mission and religion of Jesus. The relatives of Jesus were accorded a special position within the early church, as displayed by the leadership of James in Jerusalem.\n\nAccording to 19th-century German theologian F. C. Baur early Christianity was dominated by the conflict between Peter who was law-observant, and Paul who advocated partial or even complete freedom from the law. Later findings contradicted this hypothesis. The allegedly continuous conflict was not supported by the available evidence. However, theological conflict between Paul and Peter is recorded in the New Testament and was widely discussed in the early church. Marcion and his followers stated that the polemic against false apostles in Galatians was aimed at Peter, James and John, the \"Pillars of the Church\", as well as the \"false\" gospels circulating through the churches at the time. Irenaeus and Tertullian argued against Marcionism's elevation of Paul and stated that Peter and Paul were equals among the apostles. Passages from Galatians were used to show that Paul respected Peter's office and acknowledged a shared faith.\n\nScholar James D. G. Dunn has proposed that Peter was the \"bridge-man\" between the two other prominent leaders: Paul and James the Just. Paul and James were both heavily identified with their own \"brands\" of Christianity. Peter showed a desire to hold on to his Jewish identity, in contrast with Paul. He simultaneously showed a flexibility towards the desires of the broader Christian community, in contrast to James. (This balance is illustrated in the Antioch episode related in .)\n\nAccording to modernist higher criticism scholars who emerged since the 18th century in Protestant Europe early Christianity was a Jewish eschatological faith. The Book of Acts reports that the early followers continued daily Temple attendance and traditional Jewish home prayer. Other passages in the New Testament gospels reflect a similar observance of traditional Jewish piety such as fasting, reverence for the Torah (commonly translated as \"the Law\" in English translations of the Bible) and observance of Jewish holy days. The earliest form of Jesus' religion is best understood in this context. However, there was great diversity in local variations, as each succeeded or failed in different ways. Regardless, Jesus was a pious Jew, worshipping the Jewish God, preaching interpretations of Jewish law and accepted as the Jewish Messiah by his disciples. Proponents of higher criticism claim that regardless of how one interprets the mission of Jesus, that he must be understood in context as a 1st-century Palestinian Jew. Orthodox and Catholic Christianity, including the Church Fathers, on the other hand, tend to place a sharp distinction between Israel (which the Church claims to be the heir of) and the Pharisees (i.e., \"Jews\", forefathers of modern Judaism), as well as placing a central focus on his divine nature.\n\nThe religious climate of 1st century Judea was quite diverse with numerous variations of Judaic doctrine, many attempts to establish an ideal holy community and divergent ideas about Israel's future hopes. Modern scholars place normative Rabbinic Judaism after the time of Jesus; see also School of Jamnia. The Pharisees were but one sect and did not have the overwhelming influence in 1st century Judea traditionally attributed to them. The ancient historian Josephus noted four prominent groups in the Judaism of the time: Pharisees, Sadducees, Essenes and Zealots. Jesus dealt with a variety of sects, most prominently discussing the Law with Pharisees and debating about bodily resurrection with the Sadducees. Jesus also directly associated with John the Baptist, who is often associated with the Essenes.\n\nScholars such as James Tabor state that Essenes and early Christians had a number of similar beliefs. The Essenes practised baptism, believed in a New Covenant, were messianic and believed themselves a remnant of the faithful preparing the way for the reign of God's glory. They called their group by names that would later be used by Christians, such as The Way and the Saints. Jesus preached a number of doctrines similar to Essene \"Halacha\". They followed a charismatic leader who was opposed and possibly killed at the instigation of the Pharisees. John the Baptist seems to have risen out of this context.\n\nSome scholars, such as Carsten Peter Thiede, dispute this presentation. Early Christian leaders did not have to visit Qumran to have heard of Essene beliefs and read their texts. The various Jewish groups, including Christians and Essenes, were interconnected and simultaneously adopted some practices and beliefs while rejecting others. While some similarities exist, there are many differences and similar parallels can be also drawn between the early Christians and Pharisees, and other Jewish sects. Many features of Christian faith have no parallels in the texts from Qumran, and some that do are fundamentally distinct from Essene practices and beliefs. Notably, John's act of penitent baptism bears little resemblance to the daily baptismal ritual of the Essenes.\n\nThe Roman centurion Cornelius of Caesarea Maritima is traditionally considered the first Gentile convert. His conversion, as documented in , carries great significance. Cornelius was referenced by both Peter and James in arguing for the inclusion of Gentiles in the Council of Jerusalem. His conversion is broadly considered to have been the beginning of a broader mission to the Gentiles, who would come to eclipse the Jews among Christians.\n\nThe story of Cornelius' conversion is thematically connected with, and parallels, the conversion stories of the Samaritans, Paul of Tarsus and an Ethiopian eunuch in Luke-Acts. The Ethiopian was an outsider and castrated, whose presence in worship assembly would have been prohibited under the Mosaic law (). This is consistent with the theme of Luke, advocating a \"universal\" faith and mission. Ethiopia was considered in antiquity to be the southernmost end of the world. Thus, the Ethiopian's conversion can also be interpreted as a partial fulfillment of the mission presented in to bring the Gospel to the \"ends of the earth\". Some scholars assert that the Ethiopian eunuch was the first Gentile convert, stating that those resisting this conclusion are doing so to preserve the traditional interpretation of Cornelius as the first convert. Regardless of the primacy of either convert, this episode relates Luke's view of how (through Phillip) the Gospel reached the \"ends of the earth\" and the mission to the Gentiles was initiated.\n\nDisputes over the Mosaic law generated intense controversy in early Christianity. This is particularly notable in the mid-1st century, when the circumcision controversy came to the fore. Alister McGrath stated that many of the Jewish Christians were fully faithful religious Jews, only differing in their acceptance of Jesus as the Messiah. As such, they believed that circumcision and other requirements of the Mosaic law were required for salvation. The increasing number of Gentile converts came under pressure from Jewish Christians to be circumcised in accordance with Abrahamic tradition. The issue was addressed at the Council of Jerusalem where Saint Paul made an argument that circumcision was not a necessary practice, vocally supported by Peter, as documented in . This position received widespread support and was summarized in a letter circulated in Antioch.\n\nWhile the issue was theoretically resolved, it continued to be a recurring issue among Christians. Four years after the Council of Jerusalem, Paul wrote to the Galatians about the issue, which had become a serious controversy in their region. There was a burgeoning movement of Judaizers in the area that advocated adherence to traditional Mosaic laws, including circumcision. According to McGrath, Paul identified James the Just as the motivating force behind the movement. Paul considered it a great threat to his doctrine of salvation through faith and addressed the issue with great detail in .\n\nIn 66, the Jews revolted against Rome. Rome besieged Jerusalem for four years, and the city fell in 70. The city was destroyed, including the massive Temple, and the population was mostly killed or removed, although, according to Epiphanius of Salamis, the Cenacle survived at least to Hadrian's visit in 130. A scattered population survived. Traditionally it is believed the Jerusalem Christians waited out the Jewish–Roman wars in Pella in the Decapolis. The Sanhedrin (of Judaism) reformed in Jamnia. Prophecies of the Second Temple's destruction are found in the synoptics, and are part of the argument for Supersessionism. After the Bar Kokhba revolt, Hadrian barred all Jews from Jerusalem which was renamed Aelia Capitolina, hence the subsequent Jerusalem bishops were Gentiles.\n\nJerusalem received special recognition in Canon VII of Nicaea in 325, without yet becoming a metropolitan see, and was later named as one of the Pentarchy, but the later was never accepted by the Church of Rome.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37764534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37764534", "title": "Borys Sabarko", "text": "Borys Sabarko\n\nBorys Mychajlowytsch Sabarko is an Ukrainian historian and president of the Ukrainian association of concentration camps and ghetto surviving.\n\nSabarko escaped the ghetto of Sharhorod as a child. After the Second World War he studied at the University of Czernowitz, and made his Phd's at the institute for history at the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine in Kiev, where the promovated in 1971. From 1969 until 1988 he worked as a research assistant at the institute for history. From 1971 until 1991 he was a member of the Soviet – German commission of historians, from 1989 until 2002 research assistant at the \"Institute for Global Economy and International Relations\" of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine.\nSabarko is the author of about 200 books and articles, published in Israel, Austria, Russia, Czechoslovakia, the Ukraine and Hungary. In Germany a book series on the Shoa in the Ukraine and a remembrance book, published by himself, were released. Furthermore he is the initiator of a record – keeping project about antisemitic writings and violent crimes in the Ukraine. Since 1998 he is the director of the Institute for Social and Parish Workers and since 2004 president of the Ukrainian association of former Jewish prisoners of ghetto and Nazi concentration camps. \n\nOn 21 October 2009 he was awarded the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany. He was the seventh Ukrainian to do so.\n\n"}
{"id": "21866354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21866354", "title": "British Army during the Victorian Era", "text": "British Army during the Victorian Era\n\nThe British Army during the Victorian era served through a period of great technological and social change. Queen Victoria ascended the throne in 1837, and died in 1901. Her long reign was marked by the steady expansion and consolidation of the British Empire, and industrialisation and the enactment of liberal reforms (by both Liberal and Conservative governments) within Britain.\n\nThe British Army began the period with few differences from the British Army of the Napoleonic Wars that fought at Waterloo. There were three main periods of the Army's development during the era. From the end of the Napoleonic Wars to the mid-1850s, the Duke of Wellington and his successors attempted to maintain its organisation and tactics as they had been in 1815, with only detail changes. In 1854, the Crimean War, and the Indian Rebellion of 1857 highlighted the shortcomings of the Army, but entrenched interests prevented major reforms from taking place. From 1868 to 1881, sweeping changes were made by Liberal governments, giving it the broad structure it retained until 1914.\n\nOn Victoria's death, the Army was still engaged in the Second Boer War, but other than expedients adopted for that war, it was recognisably the army that would enter the First World War. The Industrial Revolution had changed its weapons, transport and equipment, and social changes such as better education had prompted changes to the terms of service and outlook of many soldiers. Nevertheless, it retained many features inherited from the Duke of Wellington's army, and since its prime function was to maintain the expanding British Empire, it differed in many ways from the conscripted armies of continental Europe.\n\nFrom the end of the Napoleonic Wars to the outbreak of the Crimean War, the British army's organisation, and to an extent its senior personnel, remained largely unchanged. The Duke of Wellington remained as Commander-in-Chief until 1852 (except when serving as Prime Minister). His successors were men who had served him closely, such as Sir Henry Hardinge. None of them saw any need for major reform of the existing administrative systems, dress or tactics.\n\nA soldier often enlisted after being plied with drink by a recruiting sergeant in a public house. Having ritually accepted the Queen's shilling, however, he was allowed twenty-four to ninety-six hours to reconsider. The recruit was then medically examined (as much to detect the scars from flogging, to prevent deserters or discharged soldiers re-enlisting for the enlistment bounty as to detect other weaknesses or illness), and then formally took the oath of allegiance before a magistrate.\n\nSoldiers enlisted either for life, or for a period of twenty-one years, which effectively was a lifelong enlistment. \"Limited Service\" enlistments of only seven years (longer in the cavalry and artillery), which were introduced in 1806 to allow the Army to be rapidly expanded during the Napoleonic Wars, were abolished in 1829. Enlistments of ten or twelve years were introduced in 1847, but at the end of this prolonged period of service, most soldiers were skilled only for menial civilian occupations and immediately re-enlisted. Re-enlistment was also encouraged by a bounty of several guineas. The long-term effect of this was to produce regiments with many experienced or veteran soldiers, but no trained reserves that could reinforce the regular army. Though some regiments had territorial designations, soldiers enlisted on a basis of \"general service\", and recruits could find themselves drafted to any unit, often to bring a unit about to be posted overseas up to full establishment.\n\nSoldiers' pay was nominally one shilling per day, but this was decreased by \"stoppages\" of up to sixpence (half a shilling) for their daily rations, and other stoppages for the issue of replacement clothing, damages, medical services and so on. In 1847, it was laid down that a soldier must receive at least one penny per day, regardless of all stoppages.\n\nMany old soldiers were debilitated after serving for years in harsh climates or disease-ridden areas, although this was not the only threat to the soldiers' health; many barracks built in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries were insanitary and more overcrowded than prisons and the death rate among men in their prime in barracks in Britain and Ireland was higher than that among the general population of Britain. Long term over-indulgence in drink also affected the health of many soldiers, though this was rarely admitted in official records. It also was the cause of most disciplinary infractions.\n\nThe disciplinary system was not notably more harsh than the contemporary civil Penal System, although soldiers stood less chance of severe penalties being commuted. The death sentence could apply for crimes such as mutiny or striking an officer, but was generally reserved for actions that were capital crimes in common law, such as murder. Minor infractions could be summarily punished with extra duties or stoppages of pay, but flogging remained a punishment for many offences, including minor offences, on the discretion of a court martial. A court martial could be held at regimental level (which might well be influenced by the attitude of the colonel or other senior officers), or district level where convenient, or a General Court Martial might be convened under the authority of the Commander-in-Chief for serious matters or offences involving officers.\n\nThe maximum number of strokes inflicted on a soldier sentenced to flogging (which had been a barbaric 2,000 in 1782, essentially a death sentence for nearly any man) was reduced to 300 in 1829, and then to 50 in 1847. Some regiments nevertheless rejoiced in the nicknames of the \"bloodybacks\" or the \"bendovers\" if they were notorious for the number of floggings ordered.\n\nOnly a small portion of soldiers were permitted to marry. Soldiers' wives and children shared their barracks, with only blankets slung over a line for privacy. Wives often performed services such as laundry for their husbands' companies or barracks. A particularly cruel feature of the Army's practices was that fewer soldiers' wives were allowed to accompany a unit overseas (one per eight cavalrymen or twelve infantrymen) than were permitted when serving at home. Those wives not chosen by lot to accompany the unit when it embarked were forcibly separated from their husbands, for years or for life.\n\nThe system of Sale of commissions determined the selection and promotion of officers in the infantry and cavalry. Once officers gained their first commissions through a combination of recommendation and purchase, subsequent promotion was nominally determined by seniority, with officers purchasing their successive ranks. However, the purchase system and widely condoned abuses of it worked against either the proper training of officers or any consistently applied career structure. Some impecunious officers who had served as subalterns at Waterloo were languishing in the same rank decades later, while wealthy officers such as the notorious Lord Cardigan could rapidly become the commanding officers of regiments, and subsequently become generals from their seniority as colonels.\n\nDuring the Napoleonic Wars, a combination of large-scale expansion of the army and intensive campaigning resulting in heavy casualties had resulted in many officers being commissioned from the ranks or from middle-class backgrounds. Afterwards, such possibilities of gaining commissions became increasingly rare. In 1845, the army of Sir Hugh Gough lost so many officers during the Battle of Ferozeshah that Gough granted immediate commissions to five Warrant Officers, under his authority as Commander in Chief in India. He nevertheless was forced to defend his action before a board of enquiry.\n\nThe purchase system also generated snobbery on the part of wealthy infantry and cavalry officers towards the more studious artillery and engineer officers, who learned their \"trade\" at the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich, and whose promotion depended rigidly on seniority. No artillery officer was appointed to general command of a field army until 1842, when Sir George Pollock led the army that relieved Jellalabad.\n\nThe cavalry consisted of:\n\nIn the British Army, the distinction between light cavalry (Light Dragoons, Hussars and Lancers) for reconnaissance and heavy cavalry (Household Cavalry, Dragoon Guards and Dragoons) for shock effect on the battlefield was blurred, chiefly because both branches used the same type of mount, which was better suited for the charge than prolonged hard service. (There were however no cuirassier units equipped with armour, other than the Household Cavalry who wore highly polished armour on ceremonial duty in London only.) The 1821 Pattern swords were in use, those for the heavy cavalry regiments being straighter and longer than those for the light cavalry. These swords were intended mainly for cutting rather than thrusting, and reputedly not very efficient (although their weakness in cutting was ascribed to their being blunted by being repeatedly drawn from and replaced in metal scabbards during drill.)\n\nThe four regiments of Lancers had been introduced in the aftermath of the Napoleonic Wars, in emulation of the French and other continental armies. Three of them were converted from light dragoon regiments and one was raised to replace a disbanded Irish regiment of dragoons. They copied the Polish style of dress used by Uhlans. The lances were made of ash. Later, bamboo lances were used; these were apparently unique to the British and Indian armies.\n\nExcept for the Royal Horse Guards (the \"Blues\"), heavy cavalry wore red uniforms. The light cavalry had worn blue jackets or pelisses during the Napoleonic Wars. An attempt had been made in the 1820s to impose red uniforms on them, but (apart from the 16th Lancers, also known as the \"Scarlet Lancers\") they had reverted to blue dress.\n\nIn 1855, the infantry consisted of:\n\nSeveral of the regiments (the Guards and the lowest-numbered and therefore senior line regiments) had more than one battalion. Establishments varied but when serving at home, most line or highland battalions consisted of a headquarters, six field companies and four depot companies. One of the field companies was designated the grenadier company, and another was designated the light company. Rifle, light and fusilier regiments that historically lacked grenadier and light companies had a slightly different establishment. The establishments of battalions serving overseas was enlarged to allow for losses to disease or on campaign that could not be quickly replaced from the depot in Britain.\n\nMost infantry wore scarlet coatees or tailless jackets, with greatcoats for cold weather. White cotton dress was used for summer wear in hot climates, particularly in India. The highland regiments wore elements of traditional Scottish highland dress, such as the kilt. The Rifle regiments (the King's Royal Rifle Corps and the Rifle Brigade) wore dark green (almost black) uniforms.\n\nIn 1828, the greyish-blue trousers worn during the later stages of the Napoleonic Wars were replaced by dark blue \"Oxford mixture\" trousers for winter wear. White duck trousers were worn in summer until 1845. Although the fantastic profusion of gold and silver lace on officers' uniforms was checked, decorations for other ranks' uniforms such as fringed epaulettes, lace and badges became heavier and more ornate. The false-fronted \"Belgic\" shako, made famous by depictions of the Battle of Waterloo, was replaced soon after the Napoleonic Wars by a flaring, \"bell-topped\" shako. In the 1840s, the tapering \"Albert\" shako, with peaks both fore and aft, was adopted. Guards units wore the towering bearskin adopted after Waterloo, while most Highland regiments wore the 'feather bonnet', decorated with ostrich plumes. On campaign in India, the low-crowned \"Kilmarnock\" forage cap was often worn, sometimes with a white cloth cover that shaded the neck and the back of the head from the sun. The infamous leather stock, designed to force the wearer to keep his head erect, was retained until 1855. Trimming it down, or even soaping it to reduce the discomfort to the wearer, was a disciplinary offence.\n\nWith the exception of the rifle regiments, the infantry were armed with the Brown Bess musket, essentially the same weapon the Army had used since the early eighteenth century (though a version with a percussion cap firing mechanism replaced the flintlock in 1842). From 1830, sergeants in line infantry units no longer carried halberds or spontoons. The Rifle regiments used the Brunswick Rifle, which was first adopted in 1836 and was criticised for its lack of accuracy and difficulty of use, particularly when fouled.\n\nAt the start of the Victorian Era, the artillery and engineers were controlled by the Board of Ordnance rather than the War Office, which resulted in wasteful duplication of equipment and paperwork. However, the ethos of the officers of both corps, who did not pay for their commissions but were required to pass a course at the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich, was very different to those of the infantry and cavalry.\n\nThe artillery consisted of the Royal Artillery, responsible for field and heavy batteries, and the Royal Horse Artillery, which was intended as part of cavalry formations and used cavalry terms for its ranks and units. Gunners wore blue uniforms. The Royal Horse Artillery uniforms had braid and trimmings similar to those of light cavalry uniforms.\n\nThe Horse troops and Field batteries were equipped with 9-pounder and 12-pounder muzzle-loading smoothbore cannon respectively. The Royal Artillery also possessed some heavy batteries of 18-pounder guns, which had good range and accuracy for the period but were heavy and difficult to move, and also heavy siege mortars, although in many actions heavy guns were also provided by landing parties from the Royal Navy.\n\nThe Royal Engineers in 1837 was still a corps of specialist officers. The Royal Sappers and Miners was composed of soldiers and non-commissioned officers who undertook siege work and other construction.\n\nIn 1832, the regimental mottoes of \"Ubique\" (\"Everywhere\") and \"Quo fas et gloria ducunt\" (\"Where right and glory lead\") had been granted by William IV to both the Royal Artillery and Royal Engineers, reflecting their shared heritage.\n\nSupplies and transport were provided by the Commissariat, which was subordinated to the Treasury rather than the War Office. The Commissariat consisted mainly of officers and some non-commissioned officers, and generally hired transport and drivers locally. Supplies could also be obtained locally, but in theatres where these were short, they were purchased from contractors in Britain or the East India Company, and dispatched by ship to ports close to where required.\n\nThe British Empire, by the latter end of the 19th Century, included colonies (some being populated largely or entirely through settlement by Britain, others populated primarily by indigenous peoples conquered or otherwise subjugated by Britain) that were considered part of the same realm as the UK, dominions (colonies which had attained theoretically equal status to the UK as separate realms within the Empire), and protectorates (foreign territories under British administration). The dominions raised their own military forces, under direct control of their own governments. Although British colonies could not raise their own armies, military units were raised in many which existed in a grey zone as neither within, nor without, the British Army. Only one force, the West India Regiment, which had been in existence since 1795, was considered part of the British Army, although its black soldiers were rated as \"native\", and not recruited under the same conditions or given the same pay as the rest of the British Army.\n\nThe first line of defence of Britain was always held to be the Royal Navy. The British Army traditionally had three main roles: the maintenance of order in Britain, the protection and expansion of the British Empire, and intervention in wars on the continent of Europe. After the defeat of Napoleon I in 1815, Europe was at peace for almost forty years, and the need to plan for war against continental enemies lapsed.\n\nIn Britain, soldiers were involved in aiding the government by suppressing demonstrations and riots organised by political movements such as the Chartists, or those that occurred as the result of industrial or agrarian poverty and unrest. Units deployed to such duty often became demoralised through being quartered in public houses where drink was freely available, while the prestige of the army suffered. Cavalry (usually referred to generically as \"Dragoons\") were suited to suppressing widely scattered disturbances by agricultural labourers in the countryside and became especially hated. Such duties were one reason for the very long enlistments of British soldiers, so that many years of drill and discipline prevented them sympathising with common people.\n\nExcept in Ireland, the need for soldiers to aid the civil government and local magistrates declined with the passing of successive Reform Acts, which eventually extended the franchise to almost the whole male population of Britain, increasing industrialisation with migration to the cities and the organisation of county and metropolitan police forces. Nevertheless, troops were called out to maintain order as late as 1913, in the aftermath of the Tonypandy Riot.\n\nIn the growing British dominions overseas, British troops took part in the suppression of the Rebellions of 1837 in Canada, and the defeat of the Eureka Rebellion in Australia. In Australia, between 1810 and 1870, a total of 24 British Army infantry regiments served in a garrison role defending the Australian colonies until they were able to take responsibility for their own defence.\n\nBritish rule in India was continually expanding and consolidating. The British East India Company had grown in less than two centuries from a trading concern to be the agency for the British Government in India. It had started recruiting its own Indian troops in the mid-eighteenth century. The company administered its territory as three Presidencies based in Madras, Bombay and Bengal, each with its own army. By the start of Victoria's reign, there was little opposition to British rule in Madras and Bombay, and the Bengal Army was consequently the largest and most often employed. In 1806, at the time of the Vellore Mutiny, the combined strength of the three presidencies' armies was 154,500, making them one of the largest standing armies in the world.\n\nThe Company also recruited its own \"European\" white units, which included some infantry battalions and several companies of field or horse artillery, mainly from Ireland. These were supplemented by units of the British Army, referred to in India as \"Queen's\" troops, whose maintenance was paid for by the Company. The most senior appointments in the Company's armies were reserved for British Army officers.\n\nThe establishment of Native Infantry regiments included twenty-six British officers and two British warrant officers. All Indian personnel were subordinate to even the most junior British officers, although junior British officers were required to become proficient in Urdu, or whatever other Indian language was in use in their units, before they could be eligible for promotion. The highest rank an Indian soldier could aspire to was Subadar-Major (Rissaldar-Major in regular cavalry units), effectively a senior subaltern rank. In Irregular cavalry and infantry units, which were locally recruited from distinct communities or absorbed from the armies of annexed \"princely\" states, there were usually only seven British officers and Indian personnel had more influence.\n\nThe Company maintained its own institution for training its British officers at the Addiscombe Military Seminary. Promotion in the Company's army went strictly by seniority for both British and Indian personnel. Like the system of Purchase, this worked against the proper development of officers' careers and abilities, as the system did not encourage merit or initiative, promotion was slow and ill-suited soldiers or officers could nevertheless succeed to high rank merely by surviving long enough. Many promising junior British officers were tempted away from regimental duty to serve on the staff or as civil administrators, while Indian officers often became embittered at their lack of authority or opportunities.\n\nThe Company's army was dressed and equipped much the same as the British Army, although the Irregular units generally wore uniforms derived from the area where they were recruited. In the field, the company's British officers generally permitted themselves more suitable dress than the over-decorated and less convenient uniforms of Queen's officers. The artillery was generally lighter than the equivalent British Army equipment (6-pounder instead of 9-pounder horse artillery, for example) to allow for the harsher climate and generally more difficult terrain.\n\nOne by one, the kingdoms and confederacies of princely states (such as the Maratha Empire) that resisted British control were overcome. However, a persistent feature of British policy was a nervousness amounting almost to paranoia about Russian expansion in Central Asia and influence in Afghanistan (see The Great Game). Obsessed with the idea that Afghanistan's Emir Dost Mohammed Khan was courting a Russian presence, the British sent an expedition to replace him with Shuja Shah Durrani, a former ruler of Afghanistan who had been ousted in 1809 and who was in exile in British India. This triggered the First Anglo-Afghan War, in which the expedition successfully captured Kabul. Complacent British commanders then withdrew many of their garrisons even as they were faced with growing popular resistance. The result was the slaughter of an incompetently led British army as it tried to retreat from Kabul (the Massacre of Elphinstone's Army). Although the British later recaptured Kabul, Dost Mohammed was restored and the British withdrew from Afghanistan having lost prestige and having stored up resentment and disorder.\n\nIn India, after Sindh was overcome in a short campaign, only the Sikh Empire founded by Ranjit Singh remained wholly independent of British control. Ranjit Singh had died in 1839, his Empire fell into disorder, and a war between the British East India Company and the powerful and increasingly autonomous Sikh Army, the Khalsa, became inevitable. The First Anglo-Sikh War in late 1845 and early 1846 resulted in the defeat of the Khalsa and a British takeover of much of the administration of the Punjab. However, there had been some desperate fighting and the forces of the East India Company under Sir Hugh Gough were spared from defeat at the Battle of Ferozeshah largely by self-interest or treachery among the top leaders of the Khalsa. The Sikhs remained restive under British control, and rebellions broke out in the Punjab in 1848, especially among former units of the Khalsa that had been kept in being. The army sent to suppress the revolts was once more commanded by Gough, and again suffered several reverses in the Second Anglo-Sikh War before the Sikh army was crushed. The annexation of the Punjab left no fully self-governing Indian state.\n\nOn the borders of India, frontier clashes, and trade and sovereignty disputes with Burma had resulted in the First Burmese War from 1824 to 1826. The Burmese ceded some territory to Britain but the Burmese kingdom remained intact. The Second Anglo-Burmese War, launched in 1852 with little pretext, further truncated Burma. The British suffered few battle casualties in these campaigns, but lost many men to heatstroke, and especially to tropical diseases.\n\nBritish troops also took part in the First Opium War against China, when the Chinese authorities threatened to expel British merchants selling opium, with harmful effects to Chinese society. The outdated Chinese armies in several coastal provinces were defeated. The resulting peace treaty ceded Hong Kong to Britain, and damaged the Chinese Emperor's prestige.\n\nThe last war launched by the East India Company was the Anglo-Persian War, which followed a Persian attack on the Afghan city of Herat. Fearing instability within Afghanistan that the capture of the city would cause, the British sent a force from India that compelled Persia to relinquish its claims to Afghan territory.\n\nIn the middle of the nineteenth century, the British Army was involved in two major conflicts (the Crimean War and the Indian Rebellion of 1857) in quick succession. Although it was ultimately victorious in both, it was evident that without urgent reforms, the Army could not simultaneously carry out all its strategic roles. Many regular soldiers were in fact unfit for service, while there were no trained reservists. The Militia was almost defunct, and inadequate even for home defence.\n\nThe Crimean War was the first general war in Europe since the final defeat of Napoleon I in 1815. It provoked a public crisis of confidence in the Army.\n\nBefore the war, some small-scale changes had been made to the Army's equipment. The Minié rifled musket was introduced in 1851 for all infantry regiments, soon superseded by the Enfield Rifle (although at the start of the war some units still had the old Brown Bess musket). Some rifled artillery (such as the 68-Pounder Lancaster gun) was tentatively introduced around the same time. The use of tinned rations simplified the provision of supplies. The war, however, exposed the Army's inadequacies. Although the armies of all the nations involved suffered defeats and losses as a result of lack of preparation and incompetent leadership, the shortcomings revealed in the British Army caused greater public concern. In part, this was due to the increased general readership of newspapers such as The Times whose reporter, William Howard Russell, vividly highlighted the British Army's failings in his dispatches.\n\nWhen the war broke out, there were nominally 70,000 soldiers stationed in Britain, but this included units at sea proceeding to or from overseas postings, some recruits not yet trained, and large numbers of soldiers too infirm to serve in the field. To furnish a field army of 25,000 for the expedition, almost the entire effective establishment in Britain was dispatched and the garrison in India was dangerously weakened. The army that took part in the Siege of Sebastopol was badly led, but won some victories at high cost. The system of sale of commissions came under scrutiny during the war, especially in connection with the Battle of Balaclava, which was notable for the ill-fated Charge of the Light Brigade.\n\nThe staff work of the Commissariat Department, responsible for supplies and transport, proved unequal to the demands of the campaign. Supplies often arrived late, and were not distributed until they rotted. Commissariat officers adhered to arbitrary peacetime regulations, for example, refusing to issue nails in quantities less than one ton. The result was the death of many soldiers through disease (exacerbated by dietary deficiencies) and exposure during the winter of 1854–1855.\n\nThe army was rebuilt with many raw recruits and young, inexperienced officers. In 1855, British troops were twice repulsed in their attempts to storm the Redan, one of the fortifications of Sebastopol, while the French succeeded in capturing the Malakoff redoubt, compelling the Russians to abandon the city.\n\nIn the immediate aftermath of the war the Victoria Cross, which became the highest award for bravery in the face of the enemy, was created.\n\nWithin a year of the end of the Crimean War, the Indian Rebellion of 1857 (generally referred to by the British Army as the \"Indian Mutiny\") broke out.\n\nIn 1854, the East India Company's armies numbered 280,000, the vast majority of them being Indian. The first sepoys (native soldiers) recruited by the Company were Afghan mercenaries or low-caste Hindus, but in the Bengal Army especially, a deliberate policy had long existed of recruiting from among high-caste Hindu or landowning Muslim communities, so that the sepoys would have an interest in maintaining their position within their communities.\n\nMany Indians had become increasingly concerned by wholesale British reforms to mainstream Indian society that were imposed without any regard for historical subtleties and religious traditions. Changes such as outlawing Sati (the ritual burning of widows) and child marriage, were accompanied by prohibitions on Indian religious customs, and were seen as steps towards a forced conversion to Christianity. The sepoys of the Bengal Army saw Indian society, which they had a stake in, under threat, and also resented encroachments on their own terms and conditions of service.\n\nThe flashpoint was the introduction of the Enfield Rifle. It was believed that the cartridges for this weapon were greased with a mixture of beef and pork fat, and to bite the cartridge to load the weapon would cause a Hindu soldier to lose caste and a Moslem to be defiled. In February 1857, the 19th Bengal Native Infantry refused to use the new cartridges and the regiment was quickly disbanded. Unrest continued through the spring, and the first open outbreak occurred at Meerut on 10 May 1857 after 85 men of the 3rd Bengal Light Cavalry were jailed for refusing to use the new cartridges. That night, the three Bengal units at Meerut broke into rebellion and freed their jailed comrades (and 800 criminals), and marched to Delhi, arriving there the next day. They were joined by mobs from the city and other soldiers, and pronounced themselves at the service of the aged Mughal Emperor, Bahadur Shah II. Within a few weeks, much of northern and central India was out of the Company's control and practically all the regular units of the Bengal Army had rebelled or had been disbanded or disarmed.\n\nThere were only 35,000 British soldiers in India in widely scattered cantonments, and reinforcements took months to arrive by sea, but fortunately for the British, the rebellion was confined to the Bengal Presidency apart from some isolated incidents. Although many rebels rallied to the aged Bahadur Shah, or the nominal King of Oudh, they lacked coordinated leadership. The British troops with Gurkha regiments and newly raised Sikh and Moslem irregulars from the Punjab suppressed the rebellion, often with great brutality.\n\nThe Indian Rebellion stretched the army to the extent that Canadian volunteers raised a regiment for the British Army, titled the 100th (Prince of Wales's Royal Canadians) Regiment of Foot, for service in India. It did not, however, see service there.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Rebellion, control of India was transferred from the East India Company to the Crown. The white, so-called \"European\", units of the Company's Army, consisting of three cavalry regiments, nine infantry battalions and many troops and batteries of artillery, were transferred to the British Army. There were objections, later termed the White mutiny, by East India Company troops who objected to the enforced transfer and their consequent liability for general service. These were suppressed without difficulty. Many of the Company's European soldiers who accepted discharge rather than transfer subsequently re-enlisted.\n\nFollowing the disbanding of most of the Indian units of the Company's armies, an Indian Army was raised mainly from communities outside the mainstream of Indian culture, the so-called Martial Races. The British personnel of the Indian Army were restricted to officers. Although the British and Indian Army officers both trained at the Royal Military Academy, Sandhurst and frequently served together, there was rivalry and snobbery between the two institutions. Indian Army officers were paid more than their British Army counterparts and therefore did not need private incomes to maintain their lifestyle, and also had generous entitlements of leave to compensate for their devotion to careers separated from Britain.\n\nIn 1858, the War Office appointed a Royal Commission under Jonathan Peel, the Secretary of State for War, to investigate and recommend changes to the British Army's organisation and administration. The Commission reported its findings in 1862, but Peel and his immediate successors were unable to introduce the necessary legislation to reform the Army due to resistance by entrenched interests connected with the government of India (who wished to retain their own separate \"White\" military establishment) and by \"die-hard\" senior officers, headed by the Commander in Chief, the Duke of Cambridge, who opposed any change on principle.\n\nAt the peak of the British Empire, the middle and upper classes were often militaristic, usually seeking to join the armed forces to increase their social standing, especially the Yeomanry regiments (volunteer cavalry, who had been in existence since the Napoleonic Wars). In 1858, an assassination attempt by Felice Orsini on Napoleon III, ruler of France, was linked to Britain. In spite of the fact Britain had only just been in a war against Russia with France as its ally, there was now increased fear that war would break out.\n\nThis saw a surge in interest in the more affluent communities in creating volunteer units, known as Volunteer Rifle Corps. Many such corps were formed all over the United Kingdom. One of the most prominent was the Artists' Rifles (originally known as the 38th Middlesex Rifle Volunteer Corps), organised in London and established in 1860 by the art student Edward Sterling.\n\nIn 1862, the volunteers could muster 134,000 riflemen in 200 battalions, 24,000 artillery gunners, 2,900 engineers and a small contingent of mounted troops. The Volunteer Act 1863 formally organised the volunteers and laid down their terms of service.They were responsible to the Lord-lieutenant of the county in which they were raised. In contrast to the upper-class values of the officers of the regular army, that of the Volunteer's officers and many of the lower ranks was urban and middle-class. Rather than the Army's scarlet infantry uniforms, many volunteer infantry units wore the dark green of the rifle regiments or later adopted the grey uniforms of American volunteers (inspired by the Confederate States Army). For their part, regular officers were pleased to have nothing to do with the volunteers' citizen soldiers and officers.\n\nIn 1861, after absorbing units from the army of the defunct East India Company, the British Army numbered 220,000 other ranks in three Household Cavalry regiments, 28 line cavalry regiments, three Foot Guards regiments, 108 line infantry regiments, 2 rifle regiments and the two Corps regiments (the Royal Artillery and the Royal Engineers). Guards Regiments usually consisted of three battalions, the 25 most senior line infantry regiments consisted of two battalions and the other line regiments had one battalion only. The two rifle regiments had four battalions each. In 1855, responsibility for the artillery and engineers had been transferred from the Ordnance Board to the War Office and in the following year, the Royal Sappers and Miners were formally merged into the Royal Engineers.\n\nIn 1868, a Liberal government took office, headed by William Ewart Gladstone and committed to wide-ranging social reforms. The new Secretary of State for War was Edward Cardwell. The Cardwell Reforms, which he introduced in the 1870s, were profound.\n\nCardwell introduced the \"Army Enlistment Act (1870),\" which reduced the normal period of service from 21 years to 12 years. Furthermore, only about half this period was served with the regulars. Most men passed into the Army reserve after a few years' service, being liable for recall to the colours for a further six years in the event of a serious national emergency. Although the benefits took several years to appear, the Act gave the army both a trained cadre and the power to expand, which it had lacked in the past.\n\nCardwell also reorganised the regimental system by introducing a Localisation Scheme in 1872. This gave every cavalry and infantry regiment and artillery brigade a fixed depot and recruiting area. (Recruits who expressed a reasoned preference were nevertheless allowed to join any regiment of their choice, provided there were vacancies.) Single-battalion infantry regiments were paired via administrative depots on a county-based system. One battalion would serve overseas while the other was stationed in Britain. After a few years, the two battalions would exchange roles. The establishments were supposedly standardised for all infantry battalions serving both overseas and at home, eliminating many anomalies. This in part resulted from the adoption of steamships to replace sailing ships and later the construction of the Suez Canal, which made the movement of troops between Britain and India a matter of a few weeks rather than several months.\n\nA major step was the abolition of the system of purchase of commissions, which was replaced by a system of advancement by seniority and merit. This was expensive (as most serving officers had to be compensated for their outlay for their existing commissions, and in effect the War Office had to buy back the army from its officers), but it made possible further internal reforms by unblocking the avenues of promotion to deserving officers, regardless of their personal means.\n\nIn addition to these reforms brought in by legislation, there were other administrative reforms introduced by Order in Council. These included the abolition of the separate authority of the Ordnance Board and Commissariat, which became departments of the War Office. The Royal Artillery and Royal Engineers therefore came under the War Office. The separate administrations of the Militia and Reserves were also made the responsibility of the War Office. (These rationalisations almost halved the War Office's correspondence.)\n\nThe Commissariat, and the Military Train (a transport service, which had been created during the Crimean War) became the Control Department, which consisted of officers, and the Army Service Corps of other ranks in 1869. In 1875, the Control Department was split into the Commissariat and Control Department and the Ordnance Store Department (which later became the Army Ordnance Corps). The rank structure and nomenclature for Commissariat and Ordnance officers differed from those of the infantry, cavalry and artillery until 1888 in the case of the Commissariat, when the Department was finally merged into the Army Service Corps.\n\nFollowing the Crimean War, and the French invasion scare resulting from the 1858 Orsini affair, it was decided that the British Army needed to be repositioned to better protect the British homeland, and to better allow for expeditionary campaigns such as that to the Crimea. As an increase of the British Army was not being funded, this meant withdrawing units from garrison duty around the world. In some territories, such as India, this was not possible, as removing British soldiers could invite invasion by competing empires or insurgencies. Replacing them with native soldiers of questionable loyalty to Britain could potentially lead to rebellions.\n\nIn quieter locations of strategic importance, such as Bermuda (where the North America and West Indies Squadron of the Royal Navy was based, and where a sizable portion of the Imperial defence budget was being lavished on fortifying the archipelago), weakening the defences could also not be permitted. In such colonies with populaces whose loyalties were more reliable, and where locally raised units (such as the Royal Malta Artillery) did not already exist, the colonial governments or administrations were encouraged to raise part-time units along the lines of the Militia and the Volunteer Force to enable professional soldiers to be withdrawn. This resulted in units such as the Bermuda Militia Artillery and the Bermuda Volunteer Rifle Corps, which contributed an increasing share to the manpower of the Bermuda Garrison between 1895 and 1957.\nThe only remaining permanent British Army garrisons were at Bermuda, Cape Town and Halifax, Nova Scotia, although token detachments remained at strategically vital posts such as Gibraltar and Hong Kong.\n\nLegislation resulted in General Orders being issued throughout the army which ended barbarous disciplinary measures, such as branding men convicted of desertion or persistent bad conduct (originally carried out to prevent dishonourably discharged soldiers re-enlisting). The reformers abolished flogging for troops serving at Home, but it survived as a punishment on overseas service until 1881, as officers insisted that extraordinary powers of summary punishment might be required in the field where imprisonment or removal of privileges was impractical. It was replaced by Field Punishment Number One.\n\nAfter a period of Conservative government from 1874 to 1880, during which Army reforms were halted (although much social reform was enacted), another Liberal administration enacted the Childers reforms, which came into effect on 1 July 1881. These continued earlier reforms, which strengthened regiments' county affiliations by discarding the numeral system and amalgamating most of the single-battalion regiments into regiments with, for the most part, county names in their titles. This created a force of 69 Line Infantry regiments (48 English, 10 Scottish, 8 Irish and 3 Welsh) each of two battalions.\nThe four Rifle Regiments (which now included a Scottish and an Irish regiment) had lost their role as specialised skirmishers and marksmen with the general adoption of breech-loading rifles. They maintained their separate identity and traditions (and the two English rifle regiments still had four regular battalions), but were also assigned fixed recruiting areas and depots.\n\nThe Childers Reforms further integrated the militia and volunteers into the regular regimental system, and formally established a reserve force. Most infantry regiments had a third militia battalion, which would be filled with recalled reservists in an emergency, and a fourth volunteer battalion (or more), although the volunteer battalions often retained their original titles. This association allowed regular units to detach instructors and administrative staff to the militia and volunteer units, raising their efficiency.\n\nOn the other hand, the cavalry were less affected by the reforms. Including the three regiments of Household Cavalry, the cavalry numbered 31 regiments, but the regiments were small, generally deploying no more than two squadrons on active service. An attempt was made to link regiments in threes, in the same way that Cardwell had linked pairs of infantry battalions, but this broke down. Nor were the Yeomanry (volunteer cavalry) regiments linked to regular cavalry units. Infantry units serving in some parts of the world (such as South Africa) formed their own detachments of mounted infantry from the late 1880s or relied on locally recruited irregular mounted units.\n\nFollowing the Cardwell Reforms, most soldiers served only a few years with the regulars before passing into the reserves. This minimum period of regular service varied over time and with arms of service, from as little as four years in the infantry, to as much as eight in the cavalry and artillery. The maximum length of service remained at twenty-one years. Generally, only those soldiers who became warrant officers or senior non-commissioned officers, or specialists such as armourers, served this full term, though in most units there were \"old sweats\" who served for two decades without rising above the rank of private soldier.\n\nPay was raised to one shilling and two pence per day before Cardwell took office. He nevertheless greatly improved the common soldiers' conditions by making the basic ration allowance of bread, potatoes and meat free, and also reduced other stoppages e.g. that for hospital care. Stoppages for damages to barracks or to a soldier's equipment remained, and were resented as this might result from ordinary wear and tear on campaign or exercise. However, Cardwell also introduced a system of extra pay for soldiers who earned good-conduct badges after several years of service. Some soldiers could also supplement their pay by undertaking extra duties such as those of cook, groom, officer's servant or (in the artillery and engineers) in road-making and bridge-building.\n\nThe army insisted on minimum standards of education for soldiers promoted to the rank of corporal, and higher standards for those promoted to sergeant or above. From 1871, there were compulsory education classes for new recruits, though this was discontinued in 1888 as most recruits had received at least rudimentary education to the age of thirteen. The illiteracy rate within the army declined from 90% in 1871 to almost zero by the 1890s, though fewer than 40% of soldiers achieved (or perhaps troubled to achieve) more than the lowest standard of education required.\n\nRestrictions on the number of soldiers who could marry were eased, and all soldiers' wives could accompany their husbands when they changed station (though not on campaign). However, there was official and practical discouragement of soldiers (and officers) who wished to marry while young.\n\nFollowing a report by the Royal Commission into the Sanitary Condition of the Army, which sat from 1857 to 1861, many new barracks were built, healthier and more spacious than previously. Most of these were in a crenellated gothic style and many are still in use. These improvements and advances in medicine reduced the number of soldiers who died or were discharged as a result of disease while on ordinary service, although diseases still caused many casualties on campaign.\n\nAfter the abolition of Purchase of commissions, most officers obtained their commissions after attending the Royal Military Academy, Sandhurst. As most of the cadets at this academy were required to pay for their own education, uniforms and other equipment, officers were still drawn mainly from the upper classes, but they at least had to pass competitive examinations before entering the Academy, and had to attain minimum standards of education and military training before receiving their commissions. However, social exclusivity in most infantry and cavalry units was maintained by the high cost of living for officers, who were usually required to keep up an expensive lifestyle that required a private income above their officer's pay. An unfortunate side-effect of the abolition of Purchase (under which officers could transfer between regiments as vacancies became available) was that officers were tied to one regiment for almost the whole of their careers, which gave many officers a narrow, parochial outlook.\n\nFor almost half a century from the end of the Crimean War, the Commander in Chief of the Army was Queen Victoria's cousin, the Duke of Cambridge. Although not an absolute reactionary, his generally conservative principles and snobbishness often provided an easy target for critics and satirists.\n\nMuch of the actual conduct of operations (both in its planning at the War Office and in the field) was carried out by General Garnet Wolseley, who had established his reputation as an organiser in the Red River Expedition in Canada in 1870, and was appointed Adjutant General at the War Office in 1871. Although he supported the Liberal governments' reforms of the army, he was opposed to their foreign and imperial policies, which he believed to be indecisive and ineffectual. Wolseley was eventually made Commander in Chief (although Victoria wished the appointment to go to her martial third son, the Duke of Connaught), but the authority of the office was diminished by Parliament when the Duke of Cambridge retired.\n\nWolseley was instrumental in appointing a circle of officers, the Wolseley ring, or \"Africans\", to positions of influence. Towards the end of the nineteenth century, there was increasing rivalry and tension between the Wolseley ring and the rival Roberts ring or \"Indians\", who were protégés of General Frederick Roberts and whose experience was largely gained with the Indian Army or with British units in India. The quarrel between the factions complicated the appointments of senior officers to commands before and during the Second Anglo-Boer War and was perhaps never resolved until most of the officers involved had retired from the army.\n\nAlthough the Army had established the Staff College, Camberley in middle of the nineteenth century, it did not attain the professional standards or esteem of the Prussian Military Academy, where officers of the German General Staff were trained. Much of the Staff College's syllabus and doctrine was provided by General Sir Edward Bruce Hamley, who was praised by foreign military experts such as Helmuth von Moltke the Elder, but who was regarded as a theoretician without practical experience by Wolseley and his intimates. Regimental duty was seen as more honourable than appointments to the staff, and officers were often discouraged by their Colonels from attending the Staff College. Entry to the College was supposedly by examination, but to prevent intellectually inclined officers from the supporting arms monopolising the College, they (and officers from the Indian Army) were restricted to a small quota, and even officers from the infantry and cavalry who had failed the examination could therefore attend. Although Wolseley encouraged his protégés to attend the Staff College, he (and Roberts) preferred to appoint officers on personal preferences rather than Staff College grades. In many campaigns, officers ignored the Staff College doctrines and improvised transport and supply arrangements to meet local conditions and situations. British staff methods were never tested in war on a large scale until the Second Anglo-Boer War.\n\nBritain had no General Staff until the early twentieth century, and the work of some departments at the War Office was sometimes poorly supervised and inefficient. One of these was the Intelligence department. Although some distinguished soldiers, such as Henry Brackenbury and George Henderson, held the post of Director of Intelligence, they were distracted by questions of organisation and tactical doctrine, in which fields they made their major contributions.\n\nOne intended purpose of the Cardwell and Childers Reforms was the creation of an expeditionary force capable of being despatched to a scene of war without affecting the security of Britain or the empire. The force sent to Egypt in 1882 when the Urabi Revolt threatened British control of the Suez Canal was roughly equivalent in numbers to one Army Corps.\n\nIn 1876 a Mobilisation Scheme for eight army corps was published. This scheme had been dropped by 1881. In the late 1880s, it was planned that an Expeditionary Force of two Army Corps and one Cavalry Division was to be permanently established, with one Corps of Reservists to be mobilised for home defence. This was frustrated by shortcomings in the cavalry. The Stanhope Memorandum of 1891 (drawn up by Edward Stanhope when Secretary of State for War) laid down the policy that after providing for garrisons and India, the army should be able to mobilise three army corps for home defence, two of regular troops and one partly of militia, each of three divisions. Only after those commitments, it was hoped, might two army corps be organised for the unlikely eventuality of deployment abroad. The Expeditionary Force of two corps ultimately came into being only in the first years of the twentieth century.\n\nIn 1855, the infantry's tight-fitting and impractical coatee with its vestigial tails was replaced by a loosely cut single-breasted tunic of French inspiration. Within a few years, a closer-fitting double-breasted tunic was adopted. This was eventually replaced by a single-breasted tunic, of the form still worn by the Brigade of Guards when on public duties (e.g. when mounting guard during the summer months at Buckingham Palace.) Highland units wore a doublet instead of a tunic. The carrying of equipment on crossbelts and shoulder straps, which constricted the chest and restricted movement, was replaced by pouches suspended from the waistbelt and various patterns of \"valise\", intended to be practical in hot climates and to distribute the weight evenly. Experimentation with soldiers' equipment continued throughout the period.\n\nUntil 1870, the usual infantry headgear was a version of shako or kepi. Successive patterns were steadily reduced in size, following French styles. After that date, a conical \"home service\" helmet inspired by the Prussian pickelhaube was adopted. Highland regiments wore variations on the scotch bonnet. For service in India and Africa, a pith helmet was used by almost all troops.\n\nFor campaign purposes, British troops have often been portrayed in films as toiling in hot climates in heavy scarlet serge uniforms, and this was certainly the case in the Anglo-Zulu War and the Anglo-Egyptian War (1882) for example. However, many officers took a far more practical approach. Wolseley had lightweight grey linen uniforms purpose-made for his expeditions in the Anglo-Ashanti wars and Mahdist War. In India, almost all troops soon copied the neutral \"Khaki\" (an Urdu word meaning \"dust\") shade of cloth first adopted by Indian irregular units on the North-West Frontier in the late 1850s. It became official service dress in India during the Second Anglo-Afghan War, the first general adoption of military camouflage for the infantry. Khaki was officially adopted for troops in Africa in 1882, but the last battle in which British troops wore scarlet was the Battle of Gennis in the Sudan in 1885. Khaki became general campaign wear after that date, and became official overseas dress in 1897. A slightly darker shade of khaki subsequently became the official colour for home service dress in 1902. The white pith helmet was often stained with tea or other improvised dyestuffs on campaign to provide rudimentary camouflage. Later, it was provided with a khaki cloth cover.\n\nThe Snider–Enfield rifle, a breech-loading conversion of the Enfield rifle, was introduced starting in 1866. It was superseded from 1871 onwards by the Martini–Henry, which in turn was replaced in the 1890s by the magazine-loading Lee–Metford and Lee–Enfield rifles. From the early 1880s, the infantry tentatively introduced various rapid-firing crew-served weapons. Early versions such as the Gatling gun proved unreliable, but the Maxim gun (which was first introduced in 1893) was both reliable and devastatingly effective against an enemy charging in masses across open terrain, such as occurred at the Battle of Omdurman.\n\nOfficers remained responsible for purchasing their own uniforms and equipment, although they were expected to abide by various regimental and general regulations. They were required to carry swords that conformed to various official patterns. Before 1856, officers often purchased their own firearms. Although some bought Colt revolvers, the Adams revolvers were reckoned to be better suited to British needs, with their double action and heavy man-stopping bullets. The Beaumont–Adams revolver, with improvements to aid accuracy, was adopted as the official issue weapon in 1856. It was replaced by the unpopular Enfield revolver in 1880, which in turn was replaced by Webley revolvers in 1887.\n\nDuring the latter years of the nineteenth century, the Sam Browne belt replaced previous patterns of belt and slings for an officer's arms and personal equipment. This was so practical that it subsequently became part of the uniform of officers in almost all the world's armies.\n\nIn 1853, a common pattern of sword was introduced for all cavalry regiments. It was designed for both cutting and thrusting, but the compromise design was not very successful during the Crimean War. In 1882, it was replaced by short and long pattern swords that were stiffer and intended more for thrusting than previous patterns.\n\nThe cavalry used carbine versions of the infantry's rifles. The Snider–Enfield Cavalry Carbine was too short to be accurate at ranges over 400 yards, but the Martini–Henry carbine was popular. They also experimented with the Sharps, Westley Richards and Terry carbines. Some cavalry units affected to despise dismounted action and refused to use their firearms.\n\nThe School of Gunnery was established at Shoeburyness, Essex in 1859. In 1862 the regiment absorbed the artillery of the former British East India Company (21 horse batteries and 48 field batteries) which brought its strength up to 29 horse batteries, 73 field batteries and 88 heavy batteries.\n\nOn 1 July 1899, the Royal Artillery was divided into three groups: the Royal Horse Artillery of 21 batteries and the Royal Field Artillery of 95 batteries comprised one group, while the coastal defence, mountain, siege and heavy batteries were split off into another group named the Royal Garrison Artillery of 91 companies. The third group continued to be titled simply \"Royal Artillery\", and was responsible for ammunition storage and supply. Which branch a gunner belonged to was indicated by metal shoulder titles (R.A., R.F.A., R.H.A., or R.G.A.). The RFA and RHA also dressed as mounted men, whereas the RGA dressed like foot soldiers.\n\nThe artillery introduced the breech-loading rifled Armstrong gun in 1859, but this early breech-loader suffered gas leakages and breech failures in the field. The Royal Artillery took the retrograde step of replacing them with comparatively foolproof muzzle-loading (although rifled) guns, beginning with the RML 9 pounder 8 and 6 cwt guns, from 1871. These had the same range as contemporary breech-loading weapons, but had a much slower rate of fire. As the British Army was not involved in any wars against comparable continental armies, their inadequacy was not apparent. Breech-loading guns were reintroduced in 1883, starting with the Ordnance BL 12 pounder 7 cwt, but it took almost a decade before they were generally issued.\n\nHowever, the Army led in the development of Mountain artillery, introducing light guns that could be rapidly broken down into several smaller pieces, which could be carried on mules or pack horses over terrain too rough for field artillery.\n\nThe Royal Engineers were the corps most affected by technological advance. In addition to their traditional duties of fortification, road- and bridge-building, they also became responsible for the operation of field telegraphs, the construction and operation of railways, and even the provision of balloons that provided observers with a \"bird's-eye\" view of enemy positions.\n\nOnce the Indian Rebellion had been crushed, the only armed opposition to British rule in India came from the Pakhtun inhabitants of the North West Frontier Province adjacent to Afghanistan. Numerous expeditions were launched to subdue rebellious tribes or regions. Although the Indian units of the Indian Army bore the brunt of campaigns on the frontier, British units formed part of most Indian Army formations.\nBritish anxieties over Russian ambitions in Central Asia remained, and were exacerbated by the Russo-Turkish War (1877–1878) during which Britain sent a fleet through the Dardanelles as a gesture of support for Turkey, and also deployed a division of troops in Malta. In the late 1870s, a Russian diplomatic mission was installed in Kabul. The British demanded that they also have a mission in Kabul, and when this was refused, British armies invaded the country, precipitating the Second Anglo-Afghan War. Once again, after initial successes, troops were withdrawn only for popular rebellions to threaten the remaining garrisons. On this occasion however, the army under Lord Roberts at Kabul repelled the Afghan attacks, then made an epic march to relieve another beleaguered garrison in Kandahar. Having installed Abdur Rahman Khan as Emir, the British withdrew.\n\nWhen Russia seized some Afghan territory in the Panjdeh Incident there was renewed fear and war fever, but the incident was settled by diplomacy, and Afghanistan's territorial integrity was guaranteed. For the rest of the century, there were several uprisings on the frontier, as the British extended their authority into remote areas such as Gilgit and Chitral. There were major uprisings towards the end of the nineteenth century in Malakand and Tirah.\n\nFurther disputes with China after the first treaty led to the Second Opium War, which began even as the Indian Rebellion of 1857 was being suppressed. Once again, the Chinese were forced by a British and Indian force to concede an unequal treaty. In 1900, British and Indian troops took part in the fighting against the Boxer Rebellion. In Burma in 1886, disputes over the treaties signed earlier in the century between Britain and Burma led to the Third Anglo-Burmese War, after which the entire country was finally annexed to Britain.\n\nThere were several campaigns in Africa before the end of the 19th century, during the period known as the \"Scramble for Africa\". There was a punitive expedition in 1868 to Abyssinia and another to Ashanti in 1874. However, Britain's strategic interests generally lay in the extreme north and south of the continent.\n\nBritain had annexed the Cape of Good Hope from Holland during the Napoleonic Wars. They subsequently fought several campaigns against neighbouring African peoples such as the Xhosa. The Dutch-speaking settlers in the Cape objected to British rule and trekked north and east to set up their own republics of the Orange Free State and the Transvaal, although Britain forestalled them in Natal.\n\nThe new colony in Natal adjoined the territory of the Zulu Empire. In 1879, following a demand for the Zulu armies to disband, the Anglo-Zulu War began. The early days of the war were marked by a disaster at Isandlwana, redeemed in the view of many by a famous defence at Rorke's Drift. The war ended with the defeat and subjugation of the Zulus.\n\nShortly afterwards, the Boer republic of the Transvaal gained its independence after the First Anglo-Boer War. The main engagement of the war was the Battle of Majuba, where a British force was heavily defeated by Boer irregular marksmen. The British commander, Sir George Colley, one of Wolseley's favourites, was killed. Gladstone's government agreed to Boer independence to avoid the expense of a campaign of conquest and subsequent occupation but many British soldiers (including Wolseley and Roberts) were left eager for revenge for their humiliation.\n\nA major feature of British strategic thinking was the Suez Canal, opened in 1869, which cut the sea journey between Britain and India by two thirds. A political crisis in Egypt, the Urabi Revolt, led Britain to intervene in 1882. Facing regular Egyptian troops in entrenchments, Wolseley used novel tactics of a night approach march in close column followed by a bayonet assault at dawn to crush the dissident force at the Battle of Tel el-Kebir. Britain restored the Khedive Tewfik Pasha and established control over much of Egypt's policy.\nThis also forced Britain to intervene in Egypt's nominal dependency, the Sudan. There were some bloody battles near the Red Sea port of Suakin as the British tried to redeem earlier Egyptian defeats. General Charles George Gordon was originally sent to superintend a withdrawal but chose instead to defend Khartoum against the Mahdi Muhammad Ahmed. After a prolonged siege, the Egyptian defenders of Khartoum were overwhelmed and Gordon was killed. A British relief expedition by camel across the deserts of northern Sudan arrived two days too late.\n\nSeveral years later, having rebuilt an Egyptian army (including British and many Sudanese troops) and constructed railways and fleets of Nile steamboats to secure the lines of communication across the desert, the British again advanced into the Sudan under General Kitchener. The forces of the Khalifa Abdallahi ibn Muhammad, successor to the Mahdi, were bloodily defeated at the Battle of Omdurman and Britain established control over the Sudan. The last potential Anglo-French colonial dispute was resolved shortly afterwards in the Fashoda Incident, when a French expedition withdrew from southern Sudan and France acknowledged Britain's possession. This was one of the incidents resulting in an end to the long-standing colonial rivalries between Britain and France.\n\nThe Second Anglo-Boer War, which broke out almost at the end of Victoria's reign, was another major milestone in the British Army's development. Britain was able to mobilise unprecedented numbers of troops including reserves and volunteers to fight in South Africa, and to transport and maintain them there thanks to Britain's industrial resources, the Royal Navy and Britain's merchant fleet. However, many shortcomings in administration, training, tactics and intelligence were revealed.\n\nThe war began in 1899 after tension between the British and the two Dutch Boer republics culminated in the Boers declaring war. The outnumbered British forces in Natal and Cape Colony were quickly surrounded and besieged, but it was generally expected that a quickly mobilised Army Corps under General Redvers Buller, GOCinC of Aldershot Command and one of Wolseley's most famous protégés, would soon overcome the Boers. Buller's command was \"about the equivalent of the First Army Corps of the existing mobilization scheme.\" However, once in South Africa the corps was never able to operate as a cohesive force and the three divisions and one cavalry division were widely dispersed.\n\nThe British suffered a number of defeats at the hands of Boers using magazine rifles and modern field artillery, culminating in Black Week. It was evident that British tactics had not kept up with improvements in weapons technology. Experience gained against enemies such as the Zulus or Sudanese proved irrelevant against the Boers. Troops trained in the field for only two months each year; the rest of the time was spent in ceremonial or routine barrack duties. Officers, where not preoccupied with sporting or social activities, were engaged in tedious paperwork; each company required monthly returns totalling 400 pages.\n\nThe Royal Artillery several times deployed guns in exposed positions within rifle range of concealed Boers. This was sometimes the result of a misleading analysis of Prussian artillery tactics during the Franco-Prussian War, when guns had often been pushed into the front line to suppress enemy infantry. The same tactics applied in South Africa resulted only in needless casualties.\n\nThe infantry were not as good at marksmanship and fieldcraft as the Boers. Individual fire was discouraged, and troops still relied on firing volleys on the orders of an officer. Attempts to repeat Wolseley's tactics at Tel-el-Kabir against the Boers resulted in heavy losses at battles such as Magersfontein. The infantry finally won decisive victories only once properly coordinated with artillery, for example at the Relief of Ladysmith.\n\nThe cavalry, obsessed with the charge with cold steel, had \"ceased to be in any useful sense mobile\". They used heavy chargers as mounts rather than lighter horses. The heavy mounts required acclimatisation and recovery after long sea voyages, and needed plenty of forage when grazing was sparse. They were also overloaded with unnecessary or over-decorated equipment and saddlery. The average life expectancy of a British horse from the time of its arrival in South Africa was around six weeks.\n\nAlthough reformers such as Major Henry Havelock and the Canadian Lieutenant Colonel George Denison had long advocated the adoption of mounted infantry tactics, they merely provoked varying degrees of opposition and obstruction from the cavalry's senior officers. Most of the tactical and strategic tasks traditionally undertaken by light cavalry were therefore performed by mounted infantry detachments or by colonial (Australian, New Zealand, Canadian and South African) contingents of Light Horse. Later in the war, the dispersal of many of the Boers into small guerrilla bands made artillery units redundant, and several units of Royal Artillery Mounted Rifles were formed from among the RA.\n\nThe supply arrangements often broke down, though this was partly caused during the early part of the war by the existence of three separate establishments (Home, Indian and Egyptian) for units and formations. Lord Kitchener's attempts to impose a single system in early 1900 led to him being nicknamed \"Kitchener of Chaos\".\n\nEven before Black Week, concerns over the overall direction of the war had caused the government to mobilise yet more troops, including contingents of volunteers, and appoint Lord Roberts to command in South Africa. Roberts used his superiority in strength to overwhelm the Boer armies, and capture the capitals of both Boer republics. Although his forces suffered few casualties in battle, shortcomings in the transport and medical sections resulted in many needless casualties through shortage of supplies and enteric fevers.\n\nHaving announced the annexation of the Boer republics, Roberts returned to an appointment as Commander in Chief in Ireland, leaving Lord Kitchener to oversee the final operations. In fact, the Boers maintained a guerilla fight for over a year. The British response was marked by the indiscriminate removal of Boer non-combatants including women and children into concentration camps where many died, again through poor rations and sanitation. Kitchener's methods against the very mobile Boer fighters were often expensive and wasteful, until near the end of the war when the Boers were finally worn down by exhaustion.\n\nThe war also saw the first substantial deployment outside their own borders of troops from the present and future Dominions (Australia, Canada, Newfoundland, New Zealand and South Africa).\n\nDuring the second Boer War, a fourth regiment of guards (the Irish Guards) had been formed, at the instigation of Lord Roberts.\n\nQueen Victoria died in 1901, a few months before the end of the Boer War. At her death, the differences between the British Army and those of most nations in Europe had become accentuated in many ways. The British soldier's jargon illustrated that almost all soldiers would serve in India or Africa at some time during their enlistments. Hindi, Urdu, Arabic or to a lesser extent Bantu words and phrases sprinkled soldiers' conversation.\n\nMost British Army officers and many of the longer-serving soldiers had first-hand experience of active service and combat, though not of the large-scale manoeuvres and operations for which the conscript armies of Europe planned and trained. Indeed, the Chobham Manoeuvres of 1853 involving 7,000 troops were the first such manoeuvres since the Napoleonic Wars.\n\nFew armies other than those of the dominions within the British empire had attempted to emulate the British Army's systems. From 1856 to 1870, the French Army had to some extent inspired the organisation, dress and tactics of many other armies, including the British; after the Franco-Prussian War of 1870, which ended in French defeat, the Prussian Army became the model to which others aspired.\n\nIt was recognised by many British politicians that the period of splendid isolation was ending and the Army might well be committed to conflict in Europe. Others aspects of British society were unfavourable for a large-scale expansion of the Army. Many of the Army's recruits during the Boer War had proved to be of inadequate physique or in poor health, through squalid housing or lack of medical provision. Within a few years of Victoria's death, a Liberal government committed to welfare reforms was elected.\n\nThe lessons the Army had learned during the Boer War were addressed at several levels. The Esher Report resulted in several further reforms to the higher level organisation of the Army. Boer tactics were adopted by the infantry and both individual and section marksmanship were greatly improved. The cavalry emphasised dismounted tactics, although still with resistance from some of the cavalry leaders who were to command the Army during the First World War.\n\n"}
{"id": "30238073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30238073", "title": "Celts in Transylvania", "text": "Celts in Transylvania\n\nThe appearance of Celts in Transylvania can be traced to the later La Tène period (c. 4th century BC).\nExcavation of the great La Tène necropolis at Apahida, Cluj County, by S. Kovacs at the turn of the 20th century revealed the first evidence of Celtic culture in Romania. The 3rd–2nd century BC site is remarkable for its cremation burials and chiefly wheel-made funeral vessels.\n\nA historical timeline of the Celts of Transylvania can be derived from archaeological finds at La Tène, but there are almost no ancient records that allow reconstruction of political events in the area. The Celts exercised politico-military rule over Transylvania between the 4th and 2nd century BC and brought with them a more advanced iron-working technology. They were also responsible for the spread of the potter's wheel into a much wider area than the one they occupied.\n\nLarge areas of ancient Dacia, which were populated early in the First Iron Age by Thracian people, were affected by a massive migration of Iranian Scythians moving east to west during the first half of the first millennium BC. They were followed by a second equally large wave of Celts migrating west to east. Celts arrived in northwestern Transylvania in around 400–350 BC as part of their great migration eastwards. When Celtic warriors first penetrated these territories, the group seem to have merged with the domestic population of early Dacians and assimilated many Hallstatt cultural traditions.\n\nThe second half of the 4th century BC saw the Middle La Tène Celtic culture emerge in north-western and central Dacia, a development reflected especially in burials of the period. Celtic artifacts dating to this time have been discovered at Turdaş, Haţeg and Mediaş in modern-day Romania.\nBy 1976, the number of Celtic sites found in Transylvania had reached about 150, indicating a significant La Tène population surpassed only by the Dacians. These sites are mostly cemeteries. Archaeological investigations have highlighted several warrior graves with military equipment, suggesting that an elite Celtic military force penetrated the region.\n\nCeltic vestiges are found concentrated in the Transylvanian plateau and plain, as well as the upper Someş basin, whereas the surrounding valleys of Haţeg, Hunedoara, Făgăraş, Bârsa, Sf. Gheorghe and Ciuc have neither necropoleis nor settlements but only tombs or isolated items. This indicates that Celts occupied the territory between Mureş and Someş, west of the Apuseni Mountains, and the plains and plateau in the intra-Carpathian space along with the valley in the upper basin of Someş. Nevertheless, these valleys, as well as those of Banat and Maramureş, have also yielded contemporary Dacian findings.\n\nOf the Celtic cemeteries excavated, the most important are those in Ciumeşti and Pişcolt (Satu Mare County) and Fântânele (Bistriţa-Năsăud County). These contain over 150 graves compared to the average of 50–70. Necropoleis have also been found at Sanislău (Satu Mare County), Curtuişeni (Bihor County), Galaţii Bistriţei (Bistriţa-Năsăud County), and Braşov (Braşov County).\n\n\nIn Transylvania, the Celts shifted from inhumation to cremation, either through natural progression or because of Dacian influence. Almost without exception, the necropoleis so far studied are bi-ritual, although cremation appears to be more prevalent than inhumation. The Celts in Dacia certainly cremated their dead from the second La Tène period onwards but Celtic inhumations appear no older than pit-grave cremations in any of the cemeteries. It is impossible to say whether the Celts turned away from the practice of cremation as the Scythians had. Although less frequent, inhumation still occurred as a constant practice even during the final stage of Celtic inhabitation of this territory.\n\nCeltic settlements had a rural character with such sites found in Mediaș, Moreşti, (Mureş County) and Ciumeşti.\n\nExpansion of Celtic groups in the area may be related to their invasion of the Balkans around 335 BC, when a massive colonization of the Tisa plain and the Transylvanian Plateau occurred following the death of Lysimachus. However, the eastward movement of the Celts into Transylvania used a different route from the one taken by the hordes that attacked the Balkans. \n\nCelts did not occupy all intra-Carpathian areas of Transylvania, stopping short of the Maramureş Depression for instance, where excavations have uncovered Dacian fortifications from the 4th and 3rd centuries BC.\nAs regards Celtic influence on local Daco-Getic culture, Vasile Pârvan has stated that the latter is wholly indebted to Celtic traditions and that the \"La Tene-ization\" of these northern Tracians was a cultural phenomenon primarily due to the Celtic population who settled the area. \n\nArchaeological sites of the 3rd and 2nd centuries BC reveal a pattern of co-existence and fusion between the bearers of La Tène culture and the indigenous Dacians. Domestic dwellings exhibit a mixture of Celtic and Dacian pottery while several Celtic graves contain Dacian type vessels. At Celtic sites in Dacia, finds show that the native population imitated Celtic art forms that they admired, but remained firmly and fundamentally Dacian in their culture.\n\nDacian archaeological finds in the Transylvania area increase in number from the middle of the 2nd century BC.\n\nDuring the first half of the 2nd century BC, Pompeius Trogus writes in his \"Historiae Philippicae\" of a Dacian king, Oroles, who fought against Celtic incursions. Oroles is recorded as resisting the intrusion of the Bastarnae, a people now generally considered to be of Germanic origin but who were in fact Celto-Germanic and, according to Livy, spoke a Celtic language. The Bastarnae moved from Silesia into what is now central and northern Moldavia.\n\nPompeius Trogus along with Justin also record the rise in Dacian authority prior to 168 BC under the leadership of King Rubobostes.\n\nAround 150 BC, La Tène material disappears from the area. This is concurrent with ancient writings, which mention the rise of Dacian authority. This ended Celtic domination and it is possible that the Celts were forced out of Dacia. On the other hand, some scholars have posited that the Transylvanian Celts remained but merged with the local culture and thereafter ceased to be distinctive.\n\nThe boundary between the Celts and Dacians near the River Tisa is depicted in 2nd century BC pottery found at Pecica in Arad County, a prosperous trading center at the confluence of the two peoples.\n\nA classic period of Geto-Dacian La Tène culture began in the 1st century BC centered around the city of Sarmizegetusa Regia in south-western Transylvania. Dacian king Burebista defeated the Celtic Boii and Taurisci tribes between 60–59 BC. However, some archaeological finds in Dacian settlements and fortifications feature imported Celtic vessels and others made by Dacian potters imitating Celtic prototypes. These discoveries in sites from regions north and west of Transylvania show that relations between the Dacians and the Celts continued in the period 1st century BC-1st century AD.\n\nDuring Burebista's time, the Dacians became closer to the remaining Celtic populations than they had been when the Celts ruled Transylvania. Evidence from the earlier period shows Celtic burials and settlements with only occasional Dacian elements, while Dacian settlements with Celtic finds are infrequent. This situation reversed after Burebista's conquest when a distinctive hybrid Celtic-Dacian culture emerged on the Hungarian plain and in the Slovakian regions.\n\nMost of the Celts were absorbed into the Geto-Dacian population and contributed to Dacian cultural development. These Celtic tribes, who were skilled in iron exploitation and processing, also introduced the potter's wheel to the area, thereby contributing to acceleration of the development of Dacia. By this time, prosperous Celtic communities had spread over the whole territory of modern Romania.\n\nBy the 2nd century, Celtic military and civilian groups from Roman Empire provinces had moved into the area of Transylvania that also had become part of the Empire, as part of Roman Dacia, by 106 AD. They were probably Latin-speaking groups with Celtic substratum who also participated in the Roman military campaigns in Dacia.\n\nRoman Dacia consisted of eastern and southeastern Transylvania, the Banat and Oltenia regions of modern Romania but excluded the rest of Dacia. The presence of Celts here is mainly illustrated by the composition of both the legions and cohorts. Legio XIII Gemina came from the Celtic zone of Vindabona and contained some Celtic elements. Troops from Roman Celtic and Germanic provinces were the most numerous of the auxiliary troops. (See also List of Roman auxiliary regiments)\n\nThe several cohorts and alae Gallorum attested in diplomas and inscriptions reveal the large number of Gauls who were recruited by Romans, some of whom were moved to Transylvania (i.e. Cohors II Gallorum Dacica equitata in Dacia Superior later organized as Dacia Porolissensis). Some units were recruited from single Gallic or Germanic tribes (i.e. Germanic Batavi formed Cohors III Batavorum \"3rd Cohort of Batavi\").\n\nThe following are military units with some Celtic-speaking elements stationed in this region:\n\n\nIn the vicinity of 2nd century BC Transylvania, the Celtic Boii settled in the northern area of Dunántúl, in modern-day southern Slovakia and in the northern region of Hungary around the centre of modern-day Bratislava. Boii tribal union members the Taurisci and the Anarti lived in northern Dacia with the core of the Anarti tribe found in the area of the Upper Tisa. The Anartophracti from modern southeast Poland are considered part of the Anarti. Scordiscan Celts dwelling southeast of the Iron Gates of the Danube may be considered a part of the Transylvanian Celtic culture. A group of Britogauls also moved into the area.\n\nCelts penetrated first into western Dacia, then as far as north-west and central Transylvania. A large number of archaeological finds indicate a sizeable Celtic population settling for a long period among the natives. The archaeological evidence shows that these Eastern Celts were absorbed into the Geto-Dacian population.\n\nA geographic reference by Ptolemy from the 2nd century AD indicates that the Anarti were settled on the northwestern edge of Dacia with the Teurisci bordering them on the east, and further east there were the Costoboci.\n\nOne of the best known and most often reproduced pieces of Celtic art is the helmet found in a warrior chieftain's grave at Ciumeşti (now Satu Mare County, Romania). The Ciumeşti helmet is half-round with a neck protector and was hammered out of a single bronze plate with the cheek pieces bolted on afterwards. A bronze spike protrudes through the top of the helmet to which is fixed a cylinder on which a bird perches. The legs and the underpart of the head are cast while the remainder is hammered. The eyes are yellow ivory with a red enamel pupil, fastened in with bitumen. Overall the bird is in length and has a wingspan of .\n\nThe bird, whether raven, eagle or falcon, is a known Celtic totem. The representation of the bird of prey hovering over the Ciumeşti helmet had a profound supernatural significance since in the world of the La Tène Celts based on the ample documentary evidence endorsing the special ritual associations of birds. Note that the Gundestrup cauldron, now in Copenhagen, also depicts a bird crest on helmets.\n\nWilcox and McBride mentioned that their illustration of the iron Gallic warrior's helmet of the middle La Tène period had been reconstructed on the basis of the Ciumesti helmet.\n\nFour other helmets of bronze or iron have also been found in the intra-Carpathian area at Silivas (Alba County), Apahida (Cluj County), Ocna Mureş (Sibiu County) and Valea Haţegului (Hunedoara County). All these helmets are of the Waldalgesheim Style developed by the La Tène and date from the period when semi-victorious Celtic armies returned from the Balkan Peninsula and settled on the Pannonian Plain and in Transylvania.\n\nHelmets with reinforced crests are typically eastern Celtic and can be traced as they spread from the western margins of Taurisci territory at Mihovo, to be subsequently used by the Scordisci at Batina and throughout Transylvania (Apahida, Ciumeşti).\n\nA wheeled cauldron or \"Kesselwagen\", used as a crematory urn during the later Celtic Bronze Age ritual assemblage, was found at Orăştie, Romania. This one is notionally drawn by teams of water-birds.\n\nA coin type from Ciumesti shows a warrior wearing a wild boar crest on his helmet \n\nThe Dacian war trumpet, as shown on the Roman Emperor Trajan's Column at Rome 116 AD, is a Celtic-style carnyx.\n\nHigh-relief ornamental designs known as the \"Plastic Style\" are found on warriors' equipment from Pişcolt, comprising a shield with an ornate handle and shield-boss as well as a sword in an ornamented scabbard with traces of a \"dragon-pair\" motif. This motif is one of the genuinely pan-European themes of early La Tène art and is found embellishing the upper end of scabbard front-plates from southeast Britain to Transylvania.\n\nFrom at least the 3rd century BC, the undoubted interaction between the La Tène Celtic and Dacian worlds can be considered a Thracian / Dacian influence on works of Celtic craftsmanship, or even imports from these regions. Such influence may be seen in the great silver ring from Trichtingen, near Stuttgart. Silver is not the prime medium of high-status craftsmanship in the Celtic world but is characteristic of Thracian / Dacian metal-working.\n\nMoreover, the Ciumeşti Helmet and numerous later artifacts made partly or wholly of silver (\"fibulae\" or belt plates), clearly demonstrate the interaction between Thracian and Dacian schools of ornamental metalwork with the Celtic La Tène tradition.\n\nNumerous studies of the artwork of the Gundestrup cauldron, provide comparative analyses of Celtic and Thracian traditions. Images on the cauldron have many features that are common to the Celtic and Thracian corpus of art while exotic animal motifs suggest an oriental influence. Although the design has features of Celtic belief and iconography, it appears to have been made by Thracian smiths in Dacia or Thrace, in the lower Danube region, according to their own traditions. The cauldron may have been commissioned by a member of Celtic community.\n\nMythological symbols feature on the earliest Celtic coins, which were struck in what is now modern Transylvania, Romania. This would result in the minting of later Celtic coins elsewhere that are considered miniature works of art. Evidence of the Hallstatt culture in Dacia, as well as the political and economic rule of the Celts, suggests that it was the Celts, not the Dacians, who minted these silver coins based on the Macedonian Tetradrachmae of Philip II (r. 382–336 BC). According to Zirra, this theory is supported by numismatist, C. Pedra, who argues that the Celts of Dacia first began minting coins in the mid-3rd to the mid-2nd century BC, after which, native mints lasted until the early decades of the 1st century BC.\n\nThe Dacian priestly class may have influenced the druids of the Celts with the important Christian author Hippolytus of Rome (170–236 AD), claiming that the druids adopted the teachings of Pythagoras through the intermediacy of Zalmoxis.\n\nRoman Dacia's pantheon includes Celtic divinities brought to the province by both military and civilian elements. The most important Celtic cult attested in the new province is that of the horse-goddess Epona. Specific epithets in her honor as \"Augusta\", \"Regina\" and \"Sancta\" are found on inscriptions from Alba Iulia, on the site of ancient settlement Apulon (Latin Apulum).\n\nThe stag-horned Cernunnos, one of the \"great gods\" of the Celts, was also known in the area according to two testimonies, one of them calling him \"Iupiter Cernenus\", a name found nowhere else in the Empire. However, Cernunnos also has funereal attributions, not only as a protector of tombs but also as a psychopompos god.\n\nReferences to Apollo Grannus and Sirona, divinities widespread in Gallia and on the Upper Danube as protectors of health are also recorded in Roman Dacia.\n\nTwo out of the sixty known Dacian plant names are considered of Celtic origin, e.g. \"propeditla\" ‘cinquefoil’ (cf. Gaulish \"pempedula\", Cornish \"pympdelenn\", Breton \"pempdelienn\"), and \"dyn\" ‘nettle’.\n\nCeltic nomenclature carries the same onomastic weight as that of the Celto-Germanic cults in the religion of Roman Dacia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51064173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51064173", "title": "Claus Christoffersen Lyschander", "text": "Claus Christoffersen Lyschander\n\nClaus Christoffersen Lyschander (also \"Lyscander, Lyskander\"; 1558–1623/4) was a Danish poet and historian.\n\nA native of Nørre Vram, Skåne (now in Bjuv Municipality, Sweden), his boyhood was affected by the Northern Seven Years' War, some of his older siblings and his mother fell victim to the epidemics which accompanied the war. \nAfter the war, he was schooled in Herrisvad convent school. His earliest known period in Danish and Latin was composed at the age of 20. He studied at Rostock university under David Chytraeus. He spent several years in Germany, possibly studying at the university at Wittenberg.\nIn January 1587 wrote a letter of recommendation for Lyschander to Frederick II.\nLyschander was made pastor of Herfølge and Sædder parishes, one of the more prestigious positions in Zealand, where he replaecd Jon Jakobsen Venusinus whom he later also succeeded as Royal Historian.\nLyschander married in 1588 and was appointed dean at Bjæverskov Herred (Præstø County).\nHe published several historiographical works in verse form between 1608 and 1623.\n\nHe was appointed Royal Historian (\"kongelig historiograf\") by Christian IV in 1616, charged with compiling a national historiography of Denmark \"after Saxo\" (i.e. covering the 13th century onward).\nThe work was scheduled for six years, but Lyschander laid out a plan of 116 volumes. \nMaybe because it seemed unlikely that Lyschander was able to complete the national history within the appointed time, royal chancellor Christian Friis appointed Johan Isaksson Pontanus with the same task as Lyschander, but Lyschander was allowed to continue to work on his own project. In 1619, Lyschander presented a draft version of his \"Synopsis Historiae Danicae\", which was published in 1622 (now known under the title of \"Danske Kongers Slægtebog\" \"Genealogy of the Danish kings\").\n\n\n "}
{"id": "41321772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41321772", "title": "Curtis Joubert", "text": "Curtis Joubert\n\nCurtis Joseph Joubert, also known as J. Curtis Joubert (born May 1931), is a retired educator and Democratic politician of French ancestry from the U.S. state of Louisiana. He served as both a member of the Louisiana House of Representatives and as the mayor of Eunice in St. Landry Parish.\n\nJoubert was born in rural Lawtell in St. Landry Parish in South Louisiana to Edmond Joubert and the former Julia Prejean. Edmond died when Curtis was only six years old, and the child entered public schools speaking only French. In 1948, he graduated from Lawtell High School, an entity of the St. Landry Parish School Board, since reconfigured to Lawtell Elementary School. In 1951, Joubert served in the Korean War. Thereafter, he graduated from the University of Louisiana at Lafayette, formerly known as the University of Southwestern Louisiana or USL from which he obtained a Bachelor of Science and a master's degree, both in the field of Education. He undertook further graduate studies at USL and Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge. In 1988, USL honored Joubert as its \"Outstanding Graduate in the College of Education\". In 1999, as part of its centennial celebration, USL designated Joubert one of its top sixty graduates during the preceding century.\n\nIn his educational career, Joubert worked as a classroom teacher, basketball coach, counselor, and assistant principal at Eunice High School. He is the former director of the Eunice Vocational Educational Center. In 1961-1962, Joubert was named the \"Southwest Louisiana Coach of the Year\". In 1967, he was elected to the Louisiana House of Representatives and served a term during the second administration of Governor John McKeithen from 1968 until 1972, alongside fellow Democrats Armand Brinkhaus, a lawyer from Sunset in St. Landry Parish and a strong advocate of the French language and culture, and H. B. DeJean. Thereafter in 1980, under Superintendent J. Kelly Nix, he was appointed to the State Department of Education in charge of statewide ESEA Title I programs. He also served on the Board of Trustees for Colleges and Universities.\n\nIn 1981, Joubert was elected mayor of Eunice; he unseated the incumbent and defeated two other challengers as well. In his last election in 1990, Joubert defeated in the nonpartisan blanket primary his fellow Democrat Hubert \"Kutch\" Rougeau, 48 to 39 percent. Rougeau withdrew from a runoff election which he could have contested with Joubert. In 1994, Rougeau was elected mayor to succeed Joubert, who did not seek another term. Rougeau took office on January 1, 1995.\n\nMayor Joubert helped to establish the Eunice Mardi Gras celebration, considered the largest small-town gathering of its kind in Louisiana. He coined the nickname for Eunice, \"Prairie Cajun Capital.\" Numerous journalists covering the 1988 Republican National Convention in New Orleans, which nominated the Bush-Quayle ticket, took side trips to Eunice to sample the authentic Cajun culture. In the process of doing so, many interviewed Joubert; such coverage brought national attention to Acadiana.\n\nJoubert founded the World's Championship Crawfish Cook-off Contest. He has his own popular recipe for crawfish étouffée. He was instrumental in the development of the Prairie Acadian Culture Center, one of three sections of the Jean Lafitte National Historical Park and Preserve within the National Park Service. In 1986, he successfully spearheaded the renovation of the Liberty Theatre in downtown Eunice, which features the weekly \"Rendez-vous des Cajuns\" radio music show in which all the selections are in French. He worked for the establishment of the Eunice Depot Museum. He joined with the faculty at Louisiana State University at Eunice, a junior college, to establish the Cajuin Prairie Wildflower Habitat. He is a member of the board of Council for the Development of French in Louisiana, widely known as CODOFIL.\n\nAfter his tenure as mayor, Joubert was executive assistant to the Louisiana Public Service Commission, the regulatory body for transportation, utilities, and communications, of which several future, including Huey Pierce Long, Jr., and John McKeithen, were once members.\n\nIn 2008, Governor Bobby Jindal appointed Joubert, along with the New Orleans restaurateur Paul Prudhomme, to the Louisiana Tourism Development Commission, an entity created to foster employment opportunities in the travel and hospitality industries of the state.\n\nJoubert and his wife, the former Kristine Kimball, have resided since 1999 in a 7,000-square foot house which occupies an entire block on West Park Avenue in Eunice. The house was built in 1981 by Thomas E. Powell, a former member of the Louisiana Public Service Commission from Eunice. The vanities in the bathrooms are onyx; the floors, marble, and the kitchen cabinets, walnut. A large oak tree shades the brick courtyard between the main house and guest cottage. An office contains the many awards that Joubert has received over the years. As of 2013, Mrs. Joubert is the principal of the Eunice Career & Technical Education Center.\n\nIn April 1989, Joubert was featured in an article in \"Southern Living\" magazine. In 2003, he worked in the planning of the bicentennial celebration of the Louisiana Purchase. On November 29, 2003, Joubert was inducted as a \"Living Legend\" by the Acadian Museum in Erath in Vermilion Parish. He is also an inductee of the Louisiana State University at Eunice Hall of Fame for his longstanding work in promoting Bengal team athletics.\n\nIn 2005, Joubert was inducted into the Louisiana Political Museum and Hall of Fame in Winnfield. Other Louisiana mayors inducted into the Hall of Fame include DeLesseps Story Morrison, Victor Schiro, Moon Landrieu, and Ernest Nathan Morial, all mayors of New Orleans, Kip Holden of Baton Rouge, Ned Randolph of Alexandria, George Dement of Bossier City, Joe Sampite of Natchitoches, and Hyram Copeland of Vidalia.\nIn 2013, Joubert obtained an historical marker to commemorate the German prisoner of war camp at Eunice during World War II. A number of the former POWs visited Eunice decades after their confinement, some during the time that Joubert was mayor. Each reported kind treatment by the people there.\n"}
{"id": "14221864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14221864", "title": "David A. Hounshell", "text": "David A. Hounshell\n\nDavid Allen Hounshell (born 1950) is an American academic, and David M. Roderick Professor of Technology and Social Change in the Department of Social and Decision Sciences, Department of History, and the Department of Engineering and Public Policy at Carnegie Mellon University. He is known for his work of the history of research and development and industrial research in the United States, particularly at DuPont.\n\nHounshell studied electrical engineering at Southern Methodist University, receiving the B.S. in 1972. He then changed fields and enrolled in the University of Delaware's history program earning the M.S. in 1975. He continued his studies at Delaware completing his Ph.D. in 1978.\n\nHounshell started his academic career at the University of Delaware, where in 1983 he got promoted to associate professor of history. In those days he was also curator of technology at the Hagley Museum. In the year 1987/88 he was a Marvin Bower Fellow at Harvard Business School. In 1991 he moved to the Carnegie Mellon University, where he is appointed David M. Roderick Professor of Technology and Social Change in the Department of Social and Decision Sciences, Department of History, and the Department of Engineering and Public Policy. \n\nHounshell has worked with National Research Council and the National Science Foundation to study the effects of the Cold War on science and engineering research.\n\nHis \"From the American System to Mass Production, 1800–1932\" was awarded 's 1987 Dexter Prize by the Society for the History of Technology. In 2007 the Society for the History of Technology also awarded him its highest prize, the Leonardo da Vinci Medal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38929362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38929362", "title": "David Ayalon", "text": "David Ayalon\n\nDavid Ayalon (1914 – 25 June 1998) was an Israeli historian of Islam and the Middle East, specializing in the Mamluk dynasties of Egypt. Within Israel he was best known for the Arabic-Hebrew dictionary he co-compiled in 1947.\n\nBorn David Neustadt in Haifa, he grew up in Zichron Ya'akov and Rosh Pinah. After completing secondary school in Haifa, Ayalon went in 1933 to study at the recently founded Hebrew University in Jerusalem. Despite service in the British Army during World War II, he gained his PhD in 1946 under the supervision of Leo Aryeh Mayer. In the late 1940s he changed his name to David Ayalon.\n\nAyalon founded the department of modern Middle East studies there in 1949, and was its head until 1956. From 1963 to 1967 he led the Institute of Asian and African Studies at the Hebrew University.\n\n"}
{"id": "34497276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34497276", "title": "Deathtripping", "text": "Deathtripping\n\nFirst published as \"Deathtripping: The Cinema of Transgression\" by Creation Books in 1995 and subsequently republished as \"Deathtripping: The Extreme Underground\" by Soft Skull Press, \"Deathtripping\" is a book by Jack Sargeant which examines the New York based, post-punk underground film movement known as the Cinema of Transgression that formed around the manifesto written by underground filmmaker Nick Zedd. The loose-knit group of underground filmmakers included Richard Kern, Tommy Turner, Lydia Lunch, Beth B, Cassandra Stark, Joe Coleman and David Wojnarowicz, amongst others.\n\nThe book examines the work of the Cinema of Transgression filmmakers through lengthy interviews with directors, collaborators, musicians and actors associated with the movement. Alongside these the book features analyses of films, an overview of the history of the movement and its influences. It features an appendix of scripts by some of the filmmakers.\n\nFollowing the publication of the book Jack Sargeant co-produced a VHS tape with the British Film Institute showcasing a number of these films.\n\nThe films \"Kill Your Idols\" (2006) and \"Blank City\" (2010) both feature Jack talking about the films and the writing of Deathtripping.\n\nThe first and second editions were both published by Creation Books in 1995 and 1999. Both featured a pink cover depicting a photo by Richard Kern. The second edition was numbered as part of Creation Books' Film Collection series. In 2007 Soft Skull published a redesigned copy which featured various corrections, a new introduction and afterwards alongside numerous new illustrations.\n\n"}
{"id": "24234817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24234817", "title": "Demetrius the Chronographer", "text": "Demetrius the Chronographer\n\nDemetrius the Chronographer (or \"Demetrius the Chronicler\"; ) was a Jewish chronicler (historian) of the late 3rd century BCE, who lived probably in Alexandria and wrote in Greek.\n\nHis text is almost lost and only a few fragments have survived in the following ancient texts: Eusebius's \"Praeparatio Evangelica\", the \"Stromata\" of Clement of Alexandria and in quotations from the book \"About Jews\" of the historian Alexander Polyhistor (used by Eusebius).\n\nFrom the orthography of proper names, and from various expressions used, it is evident that Demetrius used the Septuagint text of the Bible. For the determination of certain dates he relied on the Biblical exegesis in use among the Palestinian Jews. Josephus used Demetrius' chronicles for his \"Antiquities of the Jews\" and adopted his chronological system.\n\nDemetrius is not an apologist in the usual meaning: his main focus is patriarchal chronology, and there is no attention given to theological matters.\n\nThere are six fragments usually considered Demetrius' work. The first short fragment (found in \"Praeparatio Evangelica\" 9.19.4) is about the sacrifice of Isaac ().\n\nThe second fragment is the longest we have. It is found in \"Praeparatio Evangelica\" 9.21.1-19 and deals with the history of Jacob from the time of his emigration to Mesopotamia till his death. Demetrius endeavors to establish the Biblical chronology and gives the date of every incident in Jacob's life, even fixing the year and month in which each of Jacob's children was born. The excerpt concludes with the genealogy of Levi back to the birth of Aaron and Moses.\n\nThe third fragment (\"Praeparatio Evangelica\" 9.29.1-3) is an extract from the history of Moses, laying stress on the genealogy of Jethro in order to demonstrate that Zipporah, the wife of Moses, was a descendant of Abraham and Keturah. The fourth fragment (\"Praeparatio Evangelica\" 9.29.15) gives an account of the sweetening of the water of Marah (). Fragment five (\"Praeparatio Evangelica\" 9.29.15-end) is very short and is about Israelites's weapons referred to in chapter 14 of Exodus.\n\nThe last fragment was preserved by Clement of Alexandria (\"Stromata\" i. 21, 141), who gives the title of Demetrius' chronicles as Περὶ τῶν ἐν τῇ Ἰουδαίᾳ Βασιλέων. This fragment endeavors to determine exactly the period of the exile of the Ten Lost Tribes, and that of the tribes of Judah and Benjamin till Ptolemy IV Philopator, in whose reign Demetrius evidently lived.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2711298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2711298", "title": "Erec and Enide", "text": "Erec and Enide\n\nErec and Enide () is the first of Chrétien de Troyes' five romance poems, completed around 1170. It is one of three completed works by the author. Consisting of about 7000 lines of Old French, the poem is one of the earliest known Arthurian romances in any language, predated only by the Welsh prose narrative \"Culhwch and Olwen\".\n\nApproximately the first quarter of \"Erec and Enide\" recounts the tale of Erec son of Lac, and his marriage to Enide, an impoverished daughter of a Vavasor from Lalut. An unarmored Erec is keeping Guinevere company while other knights participate in a stag hunt near Cardigan when a strange knight and his dwarf approach the queen and treat her servant roughly. At the Queen's orders, Erec follows the knight, Yder, to a far off town where he meets and falls in love with Enide. Erec defeats Yder, in a contest to win a falcon for the most beautiful lady in the town. Erec defends Enide's beauty and she steps forward to take the bird. They return to Enide's father, who gives permission for the two to marry. Erec refuses to accept gifts of new clothes for Enide, and takes her to Arthur's court in her ragged chemise. In spite of her appearance, the courtiers recognise Enide's inherent nobility and Queen Guinevere dresses her in one of her own richly embroidered gowns.\n\nThe central half of the poem begins some time later when rumors spread that Erec has come to neglect his knightly duties due to his overwhelming love for Enide and desire to be with her. He overhears Enide crying over this and orders her to prepare for a journey to parts unknown. He commands her to be silent throughout, but she disobeys several times to warn him of danger. Erec defeats a string of knights and captures a string of horses, overcomes two counts who in turn attempt to kill him and have Enide, and, after defeating him in a joust, makes a friend of Guivret the Small, an Irish lord with family connections to Pembroke and Scotland.\n\nThe last quarter of the poem adds another episode, referred to as the \"Joy of the Court,\" in which Erec and Enide set free prisoners and meet relations, before in time they are crowned King and Queen of Nantes in a lavishly described ceremony.\n\n\"Erec and Enide\" displays the themes of love and chivalry that Chrétien de Troyes continues in his later work. Tests play an important part in character development and marital fidelity. Erec's testing of Enide is not condemned in the fictive context of the story, especially when his behaviour is contrasted with some of the more despicable characters, such as Oringle of Limors. Nevertheless, Enide's faithful disobedience of his command to silence saves his life.\n\nAnother theme of the work is the Christianity, evidenced by the plot's orientation around the Christian Calendar. When Erec first sets off, it is Easter, at Pentecost he marries Enide, and his coronation occurs at Christmas. Furthermore, in the poem, Erec is killed and then resurrected on a Sunday, an allusion to the story of Jesus Christ.\n\nIn the 12th century, conventional love stories tended to have an unmarried heroine, or else one married to a man other than the hero. This was a sort of unapproachable, chaste courtly love. However, in \"Erec and Enide\", Chrétien addressed the less conventionally romantic (for the time period) concept of love within marriage. Erec and Enide marry before even a quarter of the story is over, and their marriage and its consequences are actually the catalysts for the adventures that comprise the rest of the poem.\n\nChrétien de Troyes played a primary role in the formation of Arthurian romance and is influential up until the latest romances. \"Erec et Enide\" features many of the common elements of Arthurian romance, such as Arthurian characters, the knightly quest, and women or love as a catalyst to action. While it is not the first story to use conventions of the Arthurian characters and setting, Chrétien de Troyes is credited with the invention of the Arthurian romance genre by establishing expectation with his contemporary audience based on its prior knowledge of the subjects.\n\nPopular in its own day, the poem was translated into several other languages, notably German in Hartmann von Aue's \"Erec\" and Welsh in \"Geraint and Enid\", one of the Three Welsh Romances included in the \"Mabinogion\". Many authors explicitly acknowledge their debt to Chrétien, while others, such as the author of \"Hunbaut\", betray their influence by suspiciously emphatic assurance that they are not plagiarizing. However, these tales are not always precisely true to Chrétien's original poem, such as in \"Geraint and Enid,\" in which Geraint (unlike Erec) suspects Enid of infidelity.\n\n\"Erec and Enide\" has come down to the present day in seven manuscripts and various fragments. The poem comprises 6,878 octosyllables in rhymed couplets. A prose version was made in the 15th century. The first modern edition dates from 1856 by Immanuel Bekker, followed by an edition in 1890 by Wendelin Foerster.\n\nWittig has compared aspects of the story to that of Dido, Queen of Carthage and Aeneas in Virgil's Aeneid. Enide does not lose her lover or commit suicide but many connections can be shown between Erec’s gradual maturing process throughout the story and Aeneas’s similar progress.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "540802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540802", "title": "Founding Fathers of the United States", "text": "Founding Fathers of the United States\n\nThe Founding Fathers of the United States led the American Revolution against the Kingdom of Great Britain. Most were descendants of colonists settled in the Thirteen Colonies in North America.\n\nHistorian Richard B. Morris in 1973 identified the following seven figures as the key Founding Fathers: Alexander Hamilton, John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, John Jay, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and George Washington. Adams, Jefferson, and Franklin were members of the Committee of Five that drafted the Declaration of Independence. Hamilton, Madison, and Jay were authors of \"The Federalist Papers\", advocating ratification of the Constitution. The constitutions drafted by Jay and Adams for their respective states of New York (1777) and Massachusetts (1780) were heavily relied upon when creating language for the US Constitution. Jay, Adams and Franklin negotiated the Treaty of Paris (1783) that would end the American Revolutionary War. Washington was Commander-in-Chief of the Continental Army and was President of the Constitutional Convention. All held additional important roles in the early government of the United States, with Washington, Adams, Jefferson, and Madison serving as President. Jay was the nation's first Chief Justice, Hamilton was the first Secretary of the Treasury, and Franklin was America's most senior diplomat, and later the governmental leader of Pennsylvania.\n\nThe term Founding Fathers is sometimes used to refer to the Signers of the embossed version of the Declaration of Independence in 1776. \"Signers\" should not be confused with the term \"Framers\"; the Framers are defined by the National Archives as those 55 individuals who were appointed to be delegates to the 1787 Constitutional Convention and took part in drafting the proposed Constitution of the United States. Of the 55 Framers, only 39 were signers of the Constitution. Two further groupings of Founding Fathers include: 1) those who signed the Continental Association, a trade ban and one of the colonists' first collective volleys protesting British control and the Intolerable Acts in 1774 or 2) those who signed the Articles of Confederation, the first U.S. constitutional document.\n\nThe phrase \"Founding Fathers\" is a 20th-century appellation, coined by Warren G. Harding in 1916. Prior to, and during the 19th century, they were referred to as simply the \"Fathers\". The term has been used to describe the founders and first settlers of the original royal colonies.\n\nThe First Continental Congress met briefly in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in 1774, consisting of fifty-six delegates from twelve of the thirteen colonies (not including Georgia) that became the United States of America. Among them was George Washington, who would soon be drawn out of military retirement to command the Continental Army during the American Revolutionary War. Also in attendance was Patrick Henry, and John Adams, who like all delegates were elected by their respective colonial assemblies. Other delegates included Samuel Adams from Massachusetts, John Dickinson from Pennsylvania and New York's John Jay. This congress in addition to formulating appeals to the British crown, established the Continental Association to administer boycott actions against Britain.\n\nWhen the Second Continental Congress convened on May 10, 1775, it essentially reconstituted the First Congress. Many of the same 56 delegates who attended the first meeting participated in the second. New arrivals included Benjamin Franklin and Robert Morris of Pennsylvania, John Hancock of Massachusetts, and John Witherspoon of New Jersey. Hancock was elected Congress President two weeks into the session when Peyton Randolph was recalled to Virginia to preside over the House of Burgesses. Thomas Jefferson replaced Randolph in the Virginia congressional delegation. The second Congress adopted the Declaration of Independence. Witherspoon was the only active clergyman to sign the Declaration. He also signed the Articles of Confederation and attended the New Jersey (1787) convention that ratified the Federal Constitution.\n\nThe newly founded country of the United States had to create a new government to replace the British Parliament. The U.S. adopted the Articles of Confederation, a declaration that established a national government with a one-house legislature. Its ratification by all thirteen colonies gave the second Congress a new name: the Congress of the Confederation, which met from 1781 to 1789. The Constitutional Convention took place during the summer of 1787, in Philadelphia. Although the Convention was called to revise the Articles of Confederation, the intention from the outset for some including James Madison and Alexander Hamilton was to create a new frame of government rather than amending the existing one. The delegates elected George Washington to preside over the Convention. The result of the Convention was the United States Constitution and the replacement of the Continental Congress with the United States Congress.\n\nThe Founding Fathers represented a cross-section of 18th-century U.S. leadership. According to a study of the biographies by Caroline Robbins: \n\nMany of the Founding Fathers attended or held degrees from the colonial colleges, most notably Columbia known at the time as \"King's College\", Princeton originally known as \"The College of New Jersey\", Harvard College, the College of William and Mary, Yale College and University of Pennsylvania. Some had previously been home schooled or obtained early instruction from private tutors or academies. Others had studied abroad. Ironically, Benjamin Franklin who had little formal education himself would ultimately establish the College of Philadelphia based on European models (1740); \"Penn\" would have the first medical school (1765) in the thirteen colonies where another Founder, Benjamin Rush would eventually teach.\n\nWith a limited number of professional schools established in the U.S., Founders also sought advanced degrees from traditional institutions in England and Scotland such as the University of Edinburgh, the University of St. Andrews, and the University of Glasgow.\n\n\n\n\nSeveral like John Jay, James Wilson, John Williams and George Wythe were trained as lawyers through apprenticeships in the colonies while a few trained at the Inns of Court in London.\n\nFranklin, Washington, John Williams and Henry Wisner had little formal education and were largely self-taught or learned through apprenticeship.\n\nThe great majority were born in the Thirteen Colonies. But at least nine were born outside:\n\nMany of them had moved from one state to another. Eighteen had already lived, studied or worked in more than one state or colony: Baldwin, Bassett, Bedford, Davie, Dickinson, Few, Franklin, Ingersoll, Hamilton, Livingston, Alexander Martin, Luther Martin, Mercer, Gouverneur Morris, Robert Morris, Read, Sherman, and Williamson.\n\nSeveral others had studied or traveled abroad.\n\nThe Founding Fathers practiced a wide range of high and middle-status occupations, and many pursued more than one career simultaneously. They did not differ dramatically from the Loyalists, except they were generally younger and less senior in their professions.\n\nHistorian Caroline Robbins in 1977 examined the status of the Signers of the Declaration of Independence and concluded:\n\nSeveral of the Founding Fathers had extensive national, state, local and foreign political experience prior to the adoption of the Constitution in 1787. Some had been diplomats. Several had been members of the Continental Congress or elected President of that body.\n\nNearly all of the 55 Constitutional Convention delegates had some experience in colonial and state government, and the majority had held county and local offices. Those who lacked national congressional experience were Bassett, Blair, Brearly, Broom, Davie, Dayton, Alexander Martin, Luther Martin, Mason, McClurg, Paterson, Charles Pinckney, Strong, and Yates.\n\nFranklin T. Lambert (2003) has examined the religious affiliations and beliefs of some of the Founders. Of the 55 delegates to the 1787 Constitutional Convention, 28 were Anglicans (in the Church of England; or Episcopalian, after the American Revolutionary War was won), 21 were Protestants, and two were Roman Catholics (D. Carroll, and Fitzsimons). Among the Protestant delegates to the Constitutional Convention, eight were Presbyterians, seven were Congregationalists, two were Lutherans, two were Dutch Reformed, and two were Methodists.\n\nA few prominent Founding Fathers were anti-clerical Christians such as Thomas Jefferson, who constructed the \"Jefferson Bible\", and Benjamin Franklin.\n\nHistorian Gregg L. Frazer argues that the leading Founders (John Adams, Jefferson, Franklin, Wilson, Morris, Madison, Hamilton, and Washington) were neither Christians nor Deists, but rather supporters of a hybrid \"theistic rationalism\".\n\nMany Founders deliberately avoided public discussion of their faith. Historian David L. Holmes uses evidence gleaned from letters, government documents, and second- hand accounts to identify their religious beliefs.\n\nThe founding fathers were not unified on the issue of slavery. In her study of Thomas Jefferson, historian Annette Gordon-Reed discusses this topic, \"Others of the founders held slaves, but no other founder drafted the charter for freedom, \" In addition to Jefferson, George Washington, John Jay and many other of the Founding Fathers practiced slavery but were also conflicted by the institution which many saw as immoral and politically divisive. Conversely, many founders such as Samuel Adams and John Adams were against slavery their entire lives. Benjamin Rush wrote a pamphlet in 1773 which harshly condemned slavery and beseeched the colonists to petition the king and put an end to the British African Company of Merchants which kept slavery and the slave trade going.\n\nFranklin, though he was a key founder of the Pennsylvania Abolition Society originally owned slaves whom he later manumitted. While serving in the Rhode Island Assembly, Stephen Hopkins introduced one of the earliest anti-slavery laws in the colonies, and John Jay would try unsuccessfully to abolish slavery as early as 1777 in the State of New York. He nonetheless founded the New York Manumission Society in 1785, for which Hamilton became an officer. They and other members of the Society founded the African Free School in New York City, to educate the children of free blacks and slaves. When Jay was governor of New York in 1798, he helped secure--an signed into law an abolition law; fully ending forced labor as of 1827. He freed his own slaves in 1798. Alexander Hamilton opposed slavery, as his experiences in life left him very familiar with slavery and its effect on slaves and on slaveholders, although he did negotiate slave transactions for his wife's family, the Schuylers. John Adams, Samuel Adams, and Thomas Paine never owned slaves.\n\nSlaves and slavery are mentioned only indirectly in the 1787 Constitution. For example, Article 1, Section 2, Clause 3 prescribes that \"three fifths of all other Persons\" are to be counted for the apportionment of seats in the House of Representatives and direct taxes. Additionally, in Article 4, Section 2, Clause 3, slaves are referred to as \"persons held in service or labor\". The Founding Fathers, however, did make important efforts to contain slavery. Many Northern states had adopted legislation to end or significantly reduce slavery during and after the American Revolution. In 1782 Virginia passed a manumission law that allowed slave owners to free their slaves by will or deed. As a result, thousands of slaves were manumitted in Virginia. Thomas Jefferson, in 1784, proposed to ban slavery in all the Western Territories, which failed to pass Congress by one vote. Partially following Jefferson's plan, Congress did ban slavery in the Northwest Ordinance of 1787, for lands north of the Ohio River.\n\nThe international slave trade was banned in all states except South Carolina, by 1800. Finally in 1807, President Jefferson called for and signed into law a Federally-enforced ban on the international slave trade throughout the U.S. and its territories. It became a federal crime to import or export a slave. However, the domestic slave trade was allowed, for expansion, or for diffusion of slavery into the Louisiana Territory.\n\nIn the winter and spring of 1786–1787, twelve of the thirteen states chose a total of 74 delegates to attend the Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia. Nineteen delegates chose not to accept election or attend the debates; for example, Patrick Henry of Virginia thought that state politics were far more interesting and important than national politics, though during the ratification controversy of 1787–1788 he claimed, \"I smelled a rat.\" Rhode Island did not send delegates because of its politicians' suspicions of the Convention delegates' motivations. As the colony was founded by Roger Williams as a sanctuary for Baptists, Rhode Island's absence at the Convention in part explains the absence of Baptist affiliation among those who did attend. Of the 55 who did attend at some point, no more than 38 delegates showed up at one time.\n\nOnly four (Baldwin, Gilman, Jenifer, and Alexander Martin) were lifelong bachelors. Many of their spouses, like Eliza Schuyler Hamilton, Martha Washington, Abigail Adams, Sarah Livingston Jay, Dolley Madison, Mary White Morris and Catherine Alexander Duer were strong women who made significant contributions of their own to the fight for liberty.\n\nSherman fathered the largest family: 15 children by two wives. At least nine (Bassett, Brearly, Johnson, Mason, Paterson, Charles Cotesworth Pinckney, Sherman, Wilson, and Wythe) married more than once. George Washington, \"The Father of our Country,\" had no biological descendants.\n\nThe National Archives and Records Administration also known as NARA, defines U.S. Founding Documents, or Charters of Freedom, as the Declaration of Independence (1776), The Constitution (1787) and the Bill of Rights (1791). These original instruments which represent the philosophy of the United States are housed in Washington, D.C. in the NARA Rotunda.\nThe Library of Congress further identifies the Articles of Confederation, also preserved at NARA, as a primary U.S. document. The Articles of Confederation served as the first constitution of the United States until its replacement by the present Constitution on March 4, 1789.\n\nSignatories of the Continental Association (CA), Declaration of Independence (DI), Articles of Confederation (AC), and the United States Constitution (USC)):\nSubsequent events in the lives of the Founding Fathers after the adoption of the Constitution were characterized by success or failure, reflecting the abilities of these men as well as the vagaries of fate. Washington, Adams, Jefferson and Madison served in highest U.S. office of President. Jay would be appointed as Chief Justice of the United States and later elected to two terms as Governor of New York.\n\nSeven (Fitzsimons, Gorham, Luther Martin, Mifflin, Robert Morris, Pierce, and Wilson) suffered serious financial reversals that left them in or near bankruptcy. Robert Morris spent three of the last years of his life imprisoned following bad land deals.\nTwo, Blount and Dayton, were involved in possibly treasonous activities. Yet, as they had done before the convention, most of the group continued to render public service, particularly to the new government they had helped to create.\n\nMany of the Founding Fathers were under 40 years old at the time of the signing of the Declaration of Independence in 1776: Alexander Hamilton was 21, Aaron Burr was 20, Gouverneur Morris was 24. The oldest were Benjamin Franklin, 70, and Samuel Whittemore, 81.\n\nSecretary Charles Thomson lived to the age of 94. Johnson died at 92. John Adams lived to the age of 90. A few – Franklin, Jay, Jefferson, Madison, Hugh Williamson, and George Wythe – lived into their eighties. Approximately 16 died in their seventies, 21 in their sixties, 8 in their fifties, and 5 in their forties. Three (Alexander Hamilton, Richard Dobbs Spaight and Button Gwinnett) were killed in duels.\n\nFriends and political adversaries John Adams and Thomas Jefferson both died on the same day – July 4, 1826.\n\nThe last remaining founders, also called the \"Last of the Romans\", lived well into the nineteenth century.\n\nThe following men and women are also recognized by many as having been founders of the United States, based upon their contributions to the formation of American nation and democracy.\n\nSeveral Founding Fathers were instrumental in establishing schools and societal institutions that still exist today:\n\nArticles and books by twenty-first century historians combined with the digitization of primary sources like handwritten letters continue to contribute to an encyclopedic body of knowledge about the Founding Fathers.\n\nRon Chernow won the Pulitzer Prize for his biography of George Washington. His bestselling book about Alexander Hamilton inspired the blockbuster musical of the same name.\n\nJoseph J. Ellis – According to Ellis, the concept of the Founding Fathers of the U.S. emerged in the 1820s as the last survivors died out. Ellis says \"the founders\", or \"the fathers\", comprised an aggregate of semi-sacred figures whose particular accomplishments and singular achievements were decidedly less important than their sheer presence as a powerful but faceless symbol of past greatness. For the generation of national leaders coming of age in the 1820s and 1830s – men like Andrew Jackson, Henry Clay, Daniel Webster, and John C. Calhoun – \"the founders\" represented a heroic but anonymous abstraction whose long shadow fell across all followers and whose legendary accomplishments defied comparison.\n\nWe can win no laurels in a war for independence,\" Webster acknowledged in 1825. \"Earlier and worthier hands have gathered them all. Nor are there places for us ... [as] the founders of states. Our fathers have filled them. But there remains to us a great duty of defence and preservation.\n\nJoanne B. Freeman Freeman's area of expertise is the life and legacy of Alexander Hamilton as well as political culture of the revolutionary and early national eras. Freeman has documented the often opposing visions of the Founding Fathers as they tried to build a new framework for governance, \"Regional distrust, personal animosity, accusation, suspicion, implication, and denouncement—this was the tenor of national politics from the outset.\" \n\nAnnette Gordon-Reed is an American historian and Harvard Law School professor. She is noted for changing scholarship on Thomas Jefferson regarding his relationship with Sally Hemings and her children. She has studied the challenges facing the Founding Fathers particularly as it relates to their position and actions on slavery. She points out \"the central dilemma at the heart of American democracy: the desire to create a society based on liberty and equality\" that yet does not extend those privileges to all.\" \n\nJack N. Rakove – Thomas Jefferson\n\nPeter S. Onuf – Thomas Jefferson\n\n\nThe Founding Fathers were portrayed in the Tony Award winning musical \"1776\", a stage production about the debates over, and eventual adoption of, the Declaration of Independence; the popular performance was later turned into the 1972 film\n\nMore recently, several of the Founding Fathers – Hamilton, Washington, Jefferson, Madison, Laurens and Burr – were reimagined in \"Hamilton\", an acclaimed production about the life of Alexander Hamilton, with music, lyrics and book by Lin-Manuel Miranda.The show was inspired by the 2004 biography \"Alexander Hamilton\" by historian Ron Chernow. The rap musical won 11 Tony Awards and a Pulitzer Prize for Drama.\n\nIn their 2015 children's book, \"The Founding Fathers\" author Jonah Winter and illustrator Barry Blitt categorized 14 leading patriots into two teams based on their contributions to the formation of America - the Varsity Squad (Washington, Franklin, Jefferson, John Adams, Madison, Jay, and Hamilton) and the Junior Varsity Squad (Sam Adams, Hancock, Henry, Morris, Marshall, Rush, and Paine).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "644144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=644144", "title": "Frank Collin", "text": "Frank Collin\n\nFrancis Joseph Collin (born November 3, 1944 in Chicago, Illinois) is an American former political activist and Midwest coordinator with the National Socialist White People's Party. After being ousted for being part Jewish (which he denied), Collin founded in 1970, the National Socialist Party of America. In the late 1970s, its plan to march in the predominantly Jewish suburb of Skokie, Illinois was challenged, but the ACLU defended its freedom of speech and assembly in a case that reached the United States Supreme Court. The court in \"National Socialist Party of America v. Village of Skokie\" (1979), a major First Amendment decision, ruled that the party had a right to march and to display a swastika, despite local opposition. After Collin was convicted and sentenced in 1979 for child molestation, he lost his position in the party.\n\nAfter being released early on parole from prison, Collin created a new career as a writer, publishing numerous books under the pen name Frank Joseph. He wrote New Age and \"hyperdiffusionist\" works supporting the hypothesis that Old World peoples had migrated to North America in ancient times and created its complex indigenous societies. This thesis is rejected by mainstream scholars.\n\nCollin was born and grew up in Chicago, Illinois, where he went to local schools. His father, Max Frank Collin, born Max Simon Cohn in Munich on August 23, 1913, the son of Jewish parents who later perished in the Shoah, was a survivor of Dachau. His mother, Virginia Gertrude née Hardyman (b. at Chicago on August 18, 1920), was Catholic.\n\nAs a young man, Collin in the 1960s joined George Lincoln Rockwell's National Socialist White People's Party. He became the Midwest coordinator. He broke with the NSWPP due to a disagreement with Rockwell's successor, Matt Koehl, who was elected as the party leader by popular vote after Rockwell was assassinated on August 25, 1967. The falling out stemmed in part from published accounts by Max Collin, Frank's father, who said that he was a Jewish Holocaust survivor and had changed his name from Cohen (or Cohn) to Collin. Frank Collin denied having Jewish roots and maintained that his father was not telling the truth.\n\nIn 1970, Collin set up another organization, the National Socialist Party of America, later known as the American Nazi Party. It attracted other disaffected members of the NSWPP, as well as Michael Allen, Gary Lauck and Harold Covington. Covington helped buy a building for the group which they called Rockwell Hall, where Collin and some other members lived in a barracks in upper floor. Collin ran for alderman of Chicago in 1975 and pulled 16% of the vote.\n\nThe NSPA began holding anti-black demonstrations in Chicago's Marquette Park. The Chicago authorities became concerned about violence and passed an ordinance which required demonstrations to post large insurance bonds. Collin went to the ACLU and they filed a suit. While the case was proceeding without public notice, Collin attempted to contact other cities about holding demonstrations. Skokie, Illinois, a suburb of Chicago, responded with a notice that the group would need to post a bond, similar to the recently enacted ordinance in Chicago. Collin's plan for his neo-Nazi group to march in uniforms through Skokie, which was heavily Jewish with numerous residents who were Holocaust survivors, generated public outrage and the media attention which Collin sought.\n\nThe \"National Socialist Party of America v. Village of Skokie\" case made its way to the Supreme Court of the United States, which ruled on June 14, 1977 that the NSPA could march wearing uniforms with swastikas under the constitutional protections of freedom of speech and assembly. Instead of marching through Skokie, Collin and a handful of NSPA members decided instead to march through Chicago, where they were outnumbered and jeered by thousands of counter-protesters.\n\nAlso in 1977, Koehl's NSWPP began a campaign in their paper \"White Power\" about Collin's father being Jewish, including publications of what they stated were Max Simon Cohn's naturalization papers. Collin and the NSPA leadership continued to deny the claim and said the images were fakes.\n\nDuring this time, according to Jeffrey Kaplan, Covington found pictures in Frank Collin's desk that linked Collin to the sexual abuse of young boys. In what Kaplan describes as a play for power in the organization, Covington and the other NSPA members turned the evidence on Collin over to the police. After Collin was arrested, Covington took over leadership of the NSPA and moved the headquarters from Chicago to North Carolina. A 1980 article in \"The New York Times\" reported that \"Frank Collin was expelled from the American Nazi Party for illicit intercourse with minors and the use of Nazi headquarters in Chicago for purposes of sodomy with children. The report indicates that the Nazis \"tipped\" the police who arrested Collin. Collin was convicted of child molestation and sentenced in 1979 to seven years in prison at the Pontiac Correctional Center. He served three years.\n\nUpon his release from prison, Collin \"reinvented himself as 'Frank Joseph,' a New Age writer and pagan worshiper.\" His time in Pontiac Correctional Facility in Illinois had coincided with the period when Russell E. Burrows worked there as a prison guard. He subsequently wrote many books and articles in support of Burrows Cave, an alleged cache of ancient treasure in an unrevealed location, supposedly discovered by Russell Burrows in southern Illinois.\" In 1987 he had his first of many antiquarian books published, \"The Destruction of Atlantis: Compelling Evidence of the Sudden Fall of the Legendary Civilization\".\n\nHe wrote articles for \"Fate\" magazine, and was the editor of \"The Ancient American\" magazine. \"The Ancient American\" is a diffusionist-inspired magazine that focuses on what it says is evidence of ancient, pre-Columbian transoceanic contact between the Old World and North America. It suggests complex indigenous cultures were directly influenced by migrants from Old World Europe.\n\n\n\nBurrows Cave\n"}
{"id": "76446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=76446", "title": "Gascony", "text": "Gascony\n\nGascony (; ; Gascon: ; ) is an area of southwest France that was part of the \"Province of Guyenne and Gascony\" prior to the French Revolution. The region is vaguely defined, and the distinction between Guyenne and Gascony is unclear; by some they are seen to overlap, while others consider Gascony a part of Guyenne. Most definitions put Gascony east and south of Bordeaux.\n\nIt is currently divided between the region of Nouvelle-Aquitaine (departments of Landes, Pyrénées-Atlantiques, southwestern Gironde, and southern Lot-et-Garonne) and the region of Occitanie (departments of Gers, Hautes-Pyrénées, southwestern Tarn-et-Garonne, and western Haute-Garonne). \n\nGascony was historically inhabited by Basque-related people who appear to have spoken a language similar to Basque. The name Gascony comes from the same root as the word Basque (see Wasconia below). From medieval times until today, the Gascon language has been spoken, although it is classified as a regional variant of the Occitan language.\n\nGascony is the land of d'Artagnan, who inspired Alexandre Dumas's character d'Artagnan in \"The Three Musketeers\". It is also home to Henry III of Navarre, who later became king of France as Henry IV.\n\nIn pre-Roman times, the inhabitants of Gascony were the Aquitanians (), who spoke a non-Indo-European language related to modern Basque. \n\nThe Aquitanians inhabited a territory limited to the north and east by the Garonne River, to the south by the Pyrenees mountain range, and to the west by the Atlantic Ocean. The Romans called this territory Aquitania, either from the Latin word (meaning \"water\"), in reference to the many rivers flowing from the Pyrenees through the area, or from the name of the Aquitanian Ausci tribe, in which case Aquitania would mean \"land of the Ausci\". \n\nIn the 50s BC, Aquitania was conquered by lieutenants of Julius Caesar and became part of the Roman Empire.\n\nLater, in 27 BC, during the reign of Emperor Augustus, the province of Gallia Aquitania was created. Gallia Aquitania was far larger than the original Aquitania, as it extended north of the Garonne River, in fact all the way north to the Loire River, thus including the Celtic Gauls that inhabited the regions between the Garonne and the Loire rivers.\n\nIn 297, as Emperor Diocletian reformed the administrative structures of the Roman Empire, Aquitania was split into three provinces. The territory south of the Garonne River, corresponding to the original Aquitania, was made a province called Novempopulania (that is, \"land of the nine tribes\"), while the part of Gallia Aquitania north of the Garonne became the province of Aquitanica I and the province of Aquitanica II. The territory of Novempopulania corresponded quite well to what we call now Gascony.\n\nThe Aquitania Novempopulana or Novempopulania suffered like the rest of the Western Roman Empire from the invasions of Germanic tribes, most notably the Vandals in 407–409. In 416–418, Novempopulania was delivered to the Visigoths as their federate settlement lands and became part of the Visigoth kingdom of Toulouse, while other than the region of the Garonne river their actual grip on the area may have been rather loose. \n\nThe Visigoths were defeated by the Franks in 507, and fled into Spain and Septimania. Novempopulania then became part of the Frankish Kingdom like the rest of southern France. However, Novempopulania was far away from the home base of the Franks in northern France, and was only very loosely controlled by the Franks. During all the troubled and historically obscure period, starting from early 5th-century accounts, the bagaudae are often cited, social uprisings against tax exaction and feudalization, largely associated to Vasconic unrest.\n\nOld historical literature sometimes claims the Basques took control of the whole of Novempopulania in the Early Middle Ages, founding its claims on the testimony of Gregory of Tours, on the etymological link between the words \"Basque\" and \"Gascon\" – both derived from \"Vascones\" or \"Wasconia\", the latter being used to name the whole of Novempopulania.\n\nModern historians reject this hypothesis, which is sustained by no archeological evidence. For Juan José Larrea, and Pierre Bonnassie, \"a Vascon expansionism in Aquitany is not proved and is not necessary to understand the historical evolution of this region\". This Basque-related culture and race is, whatever the origin, attested in (mainly Carolingian) Medieval documents, while their exact boundaries remain unclear (\"Wascones, qui trans Garonnam et circa Pirineum montem habitant\", as stated in the Royal Frankish Annals, for one).\n\nThe word \"Vasconia\" evolved into \"Wasconia\", and then into \"Gasconia\" (w- often evolved into g- under the influence of Romance languages, cf. warranty and guarantee, William and Guillaume). The gradual abandonment of the Basque-related Aquitanian language in favor of a local vulgar Latin, was not reversed. The replacing local vulgar Latin evolved into Gascon. It was heavily influenced by the original Aquitanian language (for example, Latin f- became h-, cf. Latin , French , Spanish , Occitan , but Gascon ). Quite paradoxically (or logically) the Basques from the French side of the Basque Country traditionally call anyone who does not speak Basque a Gascon.\n\nMeanwhile, Viking raiders conquered several Gascon towns, among them Bayonne in 842–844. Their attacks in Gascony may have helped the political disintegration of the Duchy until their defeat against William II Sánchez of Gascony in 982. In turn, the weakened ethnic polity known as Duchy of Wasconia/Wascones, unable to get round the general spread of feudalization, gave way to a myriad of counties founded by Gascon lords.\n\nHis 1152 marriage to Eleanor of Aquitaine allowed the future Henry II to gain control of his new wife's possessions of Aquitaine and Gascony. This addition to his already plentiful holdings made Henry the most powerful vassal in France.\nIn 1248, Simon de Montfort was appointed Governor in the unsettled Duchy of Gascony. Bitter complaints were excited by de Montfort's rigour in suppressing the excesses of both the seigneurs of the nobility and the contending factions in the great communes. Henry III yielded to the outcry and instituted a formal inquiry into Simon's administration. Simon was formally acquitted of the charges, but in August 1252 he was nevertheless dismissed. Henry then himself went to Gascony, pursuing a policy of conciliation; he arranged the marriage between Edward, his 14-year-old son, and Eleanor of Castile, daughter of Alfonso X. Alfonso renounced all claims to Gascony and assisted the Plantagenets against rebels such as Gaston de Bearn, who had taken control of the Pyrenees.\n\nIn December 1259, Louis IX of France ceded to Henry land north and east of Gascony. In return, Henry renounced his claim to many of the territories that had been lost by King John. \n\nIn May 1286, King Edward I paid homage before the new king, Philip IV of France, for the lands in Gascony. However, in May 1295, Philip \"confiscated\" the lands. Between 1295 and 1298, Edward sent three expeditionary forces to recover Gascony, but Philip was able to retain most of the territory until the Treaty of Paris in 1303.\n\nIn 1324 when Edward II of England, in his capacity as Duke of Aquitaine, failed to pay homage to the French king after a dispute, Charles IV declared the duchy forfeit at the end of June 1324, and military action by the French followed. Edward sent his wife Isabella, who was sister to the French king, to negotiate a settlement. The Queen departed for France on 9 March 1325, and in September was joined by her son, the heir to the throne, Prince Edward (later Edward III of England). Isabella's negotiations were successful, and it was agreed that the young Prince Edward would perform homage in the king's place, which he did on 24 September and so the duchy was returned to the English crown.\n\nWhen France's Charles IV died in 1328 leaving only daughters, his nearest male relative was Edward III of England, the son of Isabella, the sister of the dead king; but the question arose whether she could legally transmit the inheritance of the throne of France to her son even though she herself, as a woman, could not inherit the throne. The assemblies of the French barons and prelates and the University of Paris decided that males who derive their right to inheritance through their mother should be excluded. Thus the nearest heir through male ancestry was Charles IV's first cousin, Philip, Count of Valois, and it was decided that he should be crowned Philip VI of France. Philip believed that Edward III was in breach of his obligations as vassal, so in May 1337 he met with his Great Council in Paris. It was agreed that Gascony should be taken back into Philip's hands, thus precipitating the Hundred Years War between England and France. At the end of the Hundred Years' War, after Gascony had changed hands several times, the English were finally defeated at the Battle of Castillon on 17 July 1453; Gascony remained French from then on.\n\nThe most important towns are:\n\nThe main economic activities are:\n\n"}
{"id": "32751720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32751720", "title": "Gerald Garrick Cunningham", "text": "Gerald Garrick Cunningham\n\nGerald Garrick Cunningham (born 1945) is a New Zealand author, photographer, historian and businessman.\n\nBorn in Dunedin in the South Island of New Zealand, he lived in that city and in Central Otago, before moving to Auckland in 1957. Educated at Auckland Grammar School (1958–1962) he was employed by the Bank of New Zealand, Wright Stephenson & Co and Taylor Trading Company. In 1972 he established Company Forty Five Ltd., a business involved in the import, manufacture and wholesale of paintings and art prints to the retail trade throughout New Zealand. During 2001 he moved to the village of Lauder in Central Otago. Since that date he has written four books published by Reed Publishing NZ Ltd., a New Zealand company which was taken over by Penguin NZ, an offshoot of the multinational publisher, Penguin Group, in 2009. A fifth book was published by Penguin NZ in 2009, with a sixth & seventh published by Bateman Publishing Ltd in 2011 & 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "205058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205058", "title": "Heisei period", "text": "Heisei period\n\nThe is the current era in Japan. The Heisei period started on 8 January 1989, the day after the death of the Emperor Hirohito, when his son, Akihito, acceded to the throne as the 125th Emperor. In accordance with Japanese customs, Hirohito was posthumously renamed \"Emperor Shōwa\" on 31 January 1989.\n\nThus, 1989 corresponds to Shōwa 64 until 7 January, and from 8 January. To convert a Gregorian calendar year (after 1989) to Heisei, 1988 needs to be subtracted from the year in question (e.g. 2018 in Heisei: = ; so 2018 = ).\n\nThe Heisei period will likely end on 30 April 2019 (Heisei 31), the date on which Emperor Akihito is expected to abdicate the Chrysanthemum Throne.\n\nOn 7 January 1989, at 07:55 AM JST, the Grand Steward of Japan's Imperial Household Agency, Shōichi Fujimori, announced Emperor Hirohito's death at 6:33 AM JST, and revealed details about his cancer for the first time. Shortly after the death of the Emperor, Keizō Obuchi, then Chief Cabinet Secretary and later Prime Minister of Japan, announced the end of the Shōwa era, and heralded the new era name \"Heisei\" for the new Emperor, and explained its meaning.\n\nAccording to Obuchi, the name \"Heisei\" was taken from two Chinese history and philosophy books, namely Records of the Grand Historian (史記 \"Shiki\") and the Classic of History (書経 \"Shokyō\"). In the \"Shiki\", the sentence \"内平外成\" (\"nèi píng wài chéng\"; Kanbun: 内平かに外成る \"Uchi tairaka ni soto naru\") appears in a section honoring the wise rule of the legendary Chinese Emperor Shun. In the \"Shokyō\", the sentence \"地平天成\" (\"dì píng tiān chéng\"; Kanbun: 地平かに天成る \"Chi tairaka ni ten naru\", \"peace on the heaven and earth\") appears. By combining both meanings, Heisei is intended to mean \"peace everywhere\". The Heisei era went into effect immediately upon the day after Emperor Akihito's succession to the throne on 7 January 1989.\n\nIn August 2016, Emperor Akihito gave a televised address to the nation, in which he expressed concern that his age would one day stop him from fulfilling his official duties. This was an implication of his wish to retire. The Japanese Diet passed a law in June 2017 to allow the throne to pass to Akihito's son, Naruhito. After meeting with members of the Imperial House Council, Prime Minister Shinzō Abe announced that 30 April 2019 would be the date set for Akihito's abdication. The Era of Naruhito's reign will begin the next day.\n\n1989 marked the culmination of one of the most rapid economic growth spurts in Japanese history. With a dramatically strengthened yen after the 1985 Plaza Accord, the Bank of Japan kept interest rates low, sparking an investment boom that drove Tokyo property values up 60 percent within that year. Shortly before New Year's Day, the Nikkei 225 reached its record high of 39,000. By 1992, it had fallen to 15,000, signifying the end of Japan's famed \"bubble economy\". Subsequently, Japan experienced the \"Lost Decade\", which actually consisted of more than ten years of price deflation and largely stagnant GDP as Japan's banks struggled to resolve their bad debts and companies in other sectors struggled to restructure.\n\nThe Recruit scandal of 1988 had already eroded public confidence in the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), which had controlled the Japanese government for 38 years. In 1993, the LDP was ousted by a coalition led by Morihiro Hosokawa. However, the coalition collapsed as parties had gathered only to overthrow LDP, and lacked a unified position on almost every social issue. The LDP returned to the government in 1994, when it helped to elect Japan Socialist (later Social Democrat) Tomiichi Murayama as prime minister.\n\nIn 1995, there was a large 6.8 earthquake in Kobe, Hyōgo and sarin gas terrorist attacks were carried out on the Tokyo Metro by the doomsday cult Aum Shinrikyo. Failure of the Japanese government to react to these events promptly led to the formation of non-government organisations which have been playing an increasingly important role in Japanese politics since.\n\nDuring this period, Japan reemerged as a military power. In 1991, Japan pledged billions of U.S. dollars for the Gulf War, but constitutional arguments prevented a participation in actual war, leading Iran to criticise Japan for just pledging money and did not appreciate the way Japan co-operated in the Gulf War. However, after the war, Japanese minesweepers were sent as a part of the reconstruction effort. Following the Iraq War, in 2003, Prime Minister Junichirō Koizumi's Cabinet approved a plan to send about 1,000 soldiers of the Japan Self-Defense Forces to help in Iraq's reconstruction, the biggest overseas troop deployment since World War II without the sanction of the UN.\n\nOn 23 October 2004, the Heisei 16 Niigata Prefecture Earthquakes rocked the Hokuriku region, killing 52 and injuring hundreds (see 2004 Chūetsu earthquake).\n\nAfter an election defeat, Prime Minister Shinzō Abe resigned suddenly, and in Autumn 2007 Yasuo Fukuda became Prime Minister. Fukuda in turn resigned on September 2008 citing political failings, and Tarō Asō was selected by his party.\n\nIn August 2009, for the first time, the Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ) won 308 seats in the lower house election, which ended 50 years of political domination by the LDP. As a result of the election, Tarō Asō resigned as leader of the LDP, and Yukio Hatoyama, president of DPJ became Prime Minister on 16 September 2009. However, DPJ soon became mired in party financing scandals, particularly involving aides close to Ichirō Ozawa. Naoto Kan was chosen by the DPJ as the next Prime Minister, but he soon lost a working majority in the House of Councillors election, and the 2010 Senkaku boat collision incident caused increased tension between Japan and China. The 2009–2010 Toyota vehicle recalls also took place during this time.\n\nIn 2011, a sumo tournament was cancelled for the first time in 65 years over a match fixing scandal.\n\nOn 11 March 2011, Japan suffered the strongest recorded earthquake in its history, affecting places in the northeast of Honshū, including the Tokyo area. The quake's magnitude of 9.0 approached that of the severe 2004 megathrust earthquake. A tsunami with waves of up to 10 meters (32.5 feet) flooded inland areas several kilometers from shore, causing a large number of considerable fires. The epicenter of the quake lay so close to coastal villages and towns that thousands could not flee in time, despite a tsunami warning system. At the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant and three other nuclear power plants,serious problems occurred with the cooling systems, ultimately leading to the most serious case of radioactive contamination since the Chernobyl disaster (see Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster), as well as ongoing electric power shortages. Following the earthquake, for the first time, the Emperor addressed the nation in a pre-recorded television broadcast.\n\nIn August 2011, Kan resigned, and Yoshihiko Noda became Prime Minister. Later that year Olympus Corporation admitted major accounting irregularities. (See Tobashi scheme.) Noda pushed for Japan to consider joining the Trans-Pacific Strategic Economic Partnership, but was defeated in an election in 2012, being replaced by Shinzō Abe.\n\nAbe sought to end deflation, but Japan entered recession again in 2014 largely due to a rise in sales tax to 8%. Abe called an election in December, and promised to delay further sales tax hikes to 2018. He won the election.\n\nIn September 2015, after much controversy and debate, the National Diet gave final approval to legislation expanding the Japanese military's role overseas.\n\nIn 2018, extraordinarily heavy rainfall in Western Japan led to many deaths in Hiroshima and Okayama. Also, an earthquake struck Hokkaido, killing 41 and causing a region-wide blackout.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14836208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14836208", "title": "Helge Pharo", "text": "Helge Pharo\n\nHelge Pharo (born 29 December 1943) is a Norwegian historian.\n\nHe graduated from the University of Oslo with a cand.philol. degree in 1970. From 1972 he was a research assistant at the University of Oslo, and after a tenure as researcher at the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs 1974–1978 he moved back to the university to become an associate professor (\"førsteamanuensis\"). He finally became a professor in 1989, having taken the dr.philos. degree in 1988. He has been a visiting scholar at numerous institutions, such as the University of Wisconsin, Madison and the London School of Economics. He was the Norwegian editor of the \"Scandinavian Journal of History\" from 1984 to 1990, and editor-in-chief from 1990 to 1996. In addition he is a consultant for the Norwegian Nobel Committee.\n\nHe is a member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters.\n\nIn his younger days, Pharo was an active middle distance runner. He became Norwegian 800 metres champion in 1964, and took his last championship medal (a bronze medal) in 1973. His personal best time was 1:48.8 minutes, achieved in August 1968 on Bislett stadion.\n\n"}
{"id": "21105389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21105389", "title": "Henry Beeke", "text": "Henry Beeke\n\nHenry Beeke (6 January 1751 – 9 March 1837) was a historian, theologian, writer on taxation and finance, and botanist.\n\nBeeke was elected a scholar of Corpus Christi, Oxford in May 1769. He gained a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1773, a Master of Arts degree in 1776, a Bachelor of Divinity in 1785, and a Doctorate in Divinity in 1800. In 1775 Beeke became a fellow of Oriel College and was Junior Proctor of the University in 1784. Beeke was Regius Professor of Modern History between 1801 and 1813.\n\nBeeke was vicar of St Mary the Virgin, Oxford in 1782, rector of Ufton Norcot, Berkshire in 1789, Dean of Bristol in 1813, and vicar of Weare in 1819.\n\nBeeke gained a reputation as a fiscal expert following his 1799 \"Observations on the produce of the income tax, and on its proportion to the whole income of Great Britain\", which was expanded and reprinted in 1800. Beeke's unpublished manuscripts and correspondence also show his wider interests in economics.\n\nBeekite, a distinctive form of chalcedony which occurs in the preservation of fossils by silicification, was named to honour Beeke.\n\nBeeke was very interested in botany. He made contributions to Lysons' \"Magna Britannia\" records, and corresponded with Sir James Edward Smith, a fellow and first president of the Linnean Society of London. Beeke is credited as the binomial author of at least one plant species, \"Lotus pilosus\" , first described and published in Turner and Dillwyn's Botanical Guide. This species was later thought to be \"Lotus uliginosus\" , which is now settled as a synonym of \"Lotus pedunculatus\" , a kind of trefoil.\n\nBeeke died at Torquay on 9 March 1837.\n"}
{"id": "7705856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7705856", "title": "History of Indigenous Australians", "text": "History of Indigenous Australians\n\nThe History of Indigenous Australians began at least 65,000 years ago when humans first populated Australia.\n\nThe origin of first humans to populate the southern continent remains a matter of conjecture and debate. Some anthropologist believe they could have arrived as a result of the earliest human migrations out of Africa. Although they likely migrated to the territory, later named Australia, though Southeast Asia they are not demonstrably related to any known Asian or Polynesian population. There is evidence of genetic and linguistic interchange between Australians in the far north and the Austronesian peoples of modern-day New Guinea and the islands, but this may be the result of recent trade and intermarriage.\n\nAt the time of first European contact, it is generally estimated that between 315,000 to 750,000 people lived in Australia, in diverse groups, but upper estimates place the total population as high as 1.25 million. A cumulative population of 1.6 billion people has been estimated to have lived in Australia over 65,000 years prior to British colonisation. The regions of heaviest Indigenous population were the same temperate coastal regions that are currently the most heavily populated. In the early 1900s it was commonly believed that the Aboriginal population of Australia was leading toward extinction. The population shrank from those present when colonisation occurred in 1788 to 50,000 in 1930; this was primarily due to an outbreak of smallpox and to a lesser extent from other diseases.\n\nPost-colonisation, the coastal Indigenous populations were soon absorbed, depleted or forced from their lands; the traditional aspects of Aboriginal life which remained persisted most strongly in areas such as the Great Sandy Desert where European settlement has been sparse. The greatest population density was to be found in the southern and eastern regions of the continent, the Murray River valley in particular. However, Aboriginal Australians maintained successful communities throughout Australia, from the cold and wet highlands of Tasmania to the more arid parts of the continental interior. Technologies, diets and hunting practices varied according to the local environment.\n\nIt is believed that the first early human migration to Australia was achieved when this landmass formed part of the Sahul continent, connected to the island of New Guinea via a land bridge. It is also possible that people came by island hopping via an island chain between Sulawesi and New Guinea and the other reaches North Western Australia via Timor. The exact timing of the arrival of the ancestors of the Aboriginal Australians has been a matter of dispute among archaeologists. The most generally accepted date for first arrival is between 40,000–80,000 years BP. Near Penrith in New South Wales, since 1971 numerous Aboriginal stone tools have been found in Cranebrook Terraces gravel sediments having dates of 45,000 to 50,000 years BP. When these results were new they were controversial, but more recent dating of the same strata in 1987 and 2003 has corroborated these dates. A 48,000 BCE date is based on a few sites in northern Australia dated using thermoluminescence.\n\nA large number of sites have been radiocarbon dated to around 38,000 BCE, leading some researchers to doubt the accuracy of the thermoluminescence technique. Radiocarbon dating is limited to a maximum age of around 40,000 years. Some estimates have been given as widely as from 30,000 to 68,000 BCE. Earlier dates are requiring new techniques such as optically stimulated luminescence (OSL) and accelerator mass spectrometry (AMS), and the evidence for an earlier date of arrival is growing. Charles Dortch has dated recent finds on Rottnest Island, Western Australia at 70,000 years BP. The rock shelters at Malakunanja II (a shallow rock-shelter about 50 kilometres inland from the present coast) and of Nauwalabila I (70 kilometres further south) show evidence of used pieces of ochre – evidence for paint used by artists 60,000 years ago. Using OSL Rhys Jones has obtained a date for stone tools in these horizons dating from 53,000–60,000 years ago.\n\nThermoluminescence dating of the Jinmium site in the Northern Territory suggested a date of 116,000 plus or minus 12,000 BCE. Although this result received wide press coverage, it is not accepted by most archaeologists. Only Africa has older physical evidence of habitation by modern humans. There is also evidence of a change in fire regimes in Australia, drawn from reef deposits in Queensland, between 70 and 100,000 years ago, and the integration of human genomic evidence from various parts of the world also supports a date of before 60,000 years for the arrival of Australian Aboriginal people in the continent.\n\nHumans reached Tasmania approximately 40,000 years ago by migrating across a land bridge from the mainland that existed during the last glacial maximum. After the seas rose about 12,000 years ago and covered the land bridge, the inhabitants there were isolated from the mainland until the arrival of European settlers.\n\nShort statured aboriginal tribes inhabited the rainforests of North Queensland, of which the best known group is probably the Tjapukai of the Cairns area. These rainforest people, collectively referred to as Barrineans, were once considered to be a relic of an earlier wave of Negrito migration to the Australian continent, but this theory no longer finds much favour.\n\nMungo Man, whose remains were discovered in 1974 near Lake Mungo in New South Wales, is the oldest human yet found in Australia. Although the exact age of Mungo Man is in dispute, the best consensus is that he is at least 40,000 years old. Stone tools also found at Lake Mungo have been estimated, based on stratigraphic association, to be about 50,000 years old. Since Lake Mungo is in south-eastern Australia, many archaeologists have concluded that humans must have arrived in north-west Australia at least several thousand years earlier.\n\nIn 2012, the results of large-scale genotyping has indicated that Aboriginal Australians, the indigenous peoples of New Guinea and the Mamanwa, an indigenous people of the southern Philippines are closely related, having diverged from a common origin approximately 36,000 years ago. The same studies show that Aboriginal genomes consist of up to 11% Indian DNA which is uniformly spread through Northern Australia, indicating a substantial gene flow between Indian populations and Northern Australia occurred around 4,230 years ago. Changes in tool technology and food processing appear in the archaeological record around this time, suggesting there may have been migration from India.\n\nWhen the north-west of Australia, which is closest to Asia, was first occupied, the region consisted of open tropical forests and woodlands. After around 10,000 years of stable climatic conditions, by which time the Aboriginal people had settled the entire continent, temperatures began cooling and winds became stronger, leading to the beginning of an ice age. By the glacial maximum, 25,000 to 15,000 years ago, the sea level had dropped to around 140 metres below its present level. Australia was connected to New Guinea and the Kimberley region of Western Australia was separated from Southeast Asia (\"Wallacea\") by a strait only approximately 90 km wide. Rainfall was 40% to 50% lower than modern levels, depending on region, while the lower CO levels (half pre-industrial levels) meant that vegetation required twice as much water for photosynthesis.\n\nThe Kimberley, including the adjacent exposed continental Sahul Shelf, was covered by vast grasslands dominated by flowering plants of the family Poaceae, with woodlands and semi-arid scrub covering the shelf joining New Guinea to Australia. Southeast of the Kimberley, from the Gulf of Carpentaria to northern Tasmania the land, including the western and southern margins of the now exposed continental shelves, was covered largely by extreme deserts and sand dunes. It is believed that during this period no more than 15% of Australia supported trees of any kind. While some tree cover remained in the southeast of Australia, the vegetation of the wetter coastal areas in this region was semi-arid savannah, while some tropical rainforests survived in isolated coastal areas of Queensland.\n\nTasmania was covered primarily by cold steppe and alpine grasslands, with snow pines at lower altitudes. There is evidence that there may have been a significant reduction in Australian Aboriginal populations during this time, and there would seem to have been scattered \"refugia\" in which the modern vegetation types and Aboriginal populations were able to survive. Corridors between these refugia seem to be routes by which people kept in contact, and they seem to have been the basis for what are now called \"Songlines\" today. With the end of the ice age, strong rains returned, until around 5,500 years ago, when the wet season cycle in the north ended, bringing with it a megadrought that lasted 1,500 years. The return of reliable rains around 4,000 years BP gave Australia its current climate.\n\nFollowing the Ice Age, Aboriginal people around the coast, from Arnhem Land, the Kimberley and the southwest of Western Australia, all tell stories of former territories that were drowned beneath the sea with the rising coastlines after the Ice Age. It was this event that isolated the Tasmanian Aboriginal people on their island, and probably led to the extinction of Aboriginal cultures on the Bass Strait Islands and Kangaroo Island in South Australia. In the interior, the end of the Ice Age may have led to the recolonisation of the desert and semi-desert areas by Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory. This in part may have been responsible for the spread of languages of the Pama–Nyungan language family and secondarily responsible for the spread of male initiation rites involving circumcision. There has been a long history of contact between Papuan peoples of the Western Province, Torres Strait Islanders and the Aboriginal people in Cape York.\n\nThe Aboriginal Australians lived through great climatic changes and adapted successfully to their changing physical environment. There is much ongoing debate about the degree to which they modified the environment. One controversy revolves around the role of indigenous people in the extinction of the marsupial megafauna (also see Australian megafauna). Some argue that natural climate change killed the megafauna. Others claim that, because the megafauna were large and slow, they were easy prey for human hunters. A third possibility is that human modification of the environment, particularly through the use of fire, indirectly led to their extinction. Oral history demonstrates \"the continuity of culture of Indigenous Australians\" for at least 10,000 years. This is shown by correlation of oral history stories with verifiable incidents including known changes in sea levels and their associated large changes in location of ocean shorelines; oral records of megafauna; and comets.\n\nThe introduction of the dingo, possibly as early as 3500 BCE, showed that contact with South East Asian peoples continued, as the closest genetic connection to the dingo seems to be the wild dogs of Thailand. This contact was not just one-way, as the presence of kangaroo ticks on these dogs demonstrates. Dingoes began and evolved in Asia. The earliest known dingo-like fossils are from Ban Chiang in north-east Thailand (dated at 5500 years BP) and from north Vietnam (5000 years BP). According to skull morphology, these fossils occupy a place between Asian wolves (prime candidates were the pale footed (or Indian) wolf \"Canis lupus pallipes\" and the Arabian wolf \"Canis lupus arabs\") and modern dingoes in Australia and Thailand.\n\nMost scientists presently believe that it was the arrival of the Australian Aboriginal people on the continent and their introduction of fire-stick farming that was responsible for these extinctions. Fossil research published in 2017 indicates that Aboriginal people and megafauna coexisted for \"at least 17,000 years\". Aboriginal Australians used fire for a variety of purposes: to encourage the growth of edible plants and fodder for prey; to reduce the risk of catastrophic bushfires; to make travel easier; to eliminate pests; for ceremonial purposes; for warfare and just to \"clean up country.\" There is disagreement, however, about the extent to which this burning led to large-scale changes in vegetation patterns.\n\nAboriginal Australians were limited to the range of foods occurring naturally in their area, but they knew exactly when, where and how to find everything edible. Anthropologists and nutrition experts who have studied the tribal diet in Arnhem Land found it to be well-balanced, with most of the nutrients modern dietitians recommend. But food was not obtained without effort. In some areas both men and women had to spend from half to two-thirds of each day hunting or foraging for food. Each day, the women of the group went into successive parts of one countryside with wooden digging sticks and plaited dilly bags or wooden coolamons. Larger animals and birds, such as kangaroos and emus, were speared or disabled with a thrown club, boomerang, or stone. Many Indigenous hunting devices were used to get within striking distance of prey. The men were excellent trackers and stalkers, approaching their prey running where there was cover, or 'freezing' and crawling when in the open. They were careful to stay downwind and sometimes covered themselves with mud to disguise their smell.\n\nFish were sometimes taken by hand by stirring up the muddy bottom of a pool until they rose to the surface, or by placing the crushed leaves of poisonous plants in the water to stupefy them. Fish spears, nets, wicker or stone traps were also used in different areas. Lines with hooks made from bone, shell, wood or spines were used along the north and east coasts. Dugong, turtle and large fish were harpooned, the harpooner launching himself bodily from the canoe to give added weight to the thrust. The mode of life and material cultures varied greatly from region to region. While Torres Strait Island populations were agriculturalists who supplemented their diet through the acquisition of wild foods, most Aboriginal Australians were hunter-gatherers. Aboriginal Australians along the coast and rivers were also expert fishermen. Some Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people relied on the dingo as a companion animal, using it to assist with hunting and for warmth on cold nights.\n\nIn present-day Victoria, for example, there were two separate communities with an economy based on eel-farming in complex and extensive irrigated pond systems; one on the Murray River in the state's north, the other in the south-west near Hamilton in the territory of the Djab Wurrung, which traded with other groups from as far away as the Melbourne area (see Gunditjmara). A primary tool used in hunting is the spear, launched by a woomera or spear-thrower in some locales. Boomerangs were also used by some mainland Indigenous Australians. The non-returnable boomerang (known more correctly as a Throwing Stick), more powerful than the returning kind, could be used to injure or even kill a kangaroo.\n\nOn mainland Australia no animal other than the dingo was domesticated, however domestic pigs were utilised by Torres Strait Islanders. The typical Aboriginal diet included a wide variety of foods, such as pig, kangaroo, emu, wombats, goanna, snakes, birds, many insects such as honey ants, Bogong moths and witchetty grubs. Many varieties of plant foods such as taro, coconuts, nuts, fruits and berries were also eaten.\n\nPermanent villages were the norm for most Torres Strait Island communities. In some areas mainland Aboriginal Australians also lived in semi-permanent villages, most usually in less arid areas where fishing could provide for a more settled existence. Most Indigenous communities were semi-nomadic, moving in a regular cycle over a defined territory, following seasonal food sources and returning to the same places at the same time each year. From the examination of middens, archaeologists have shown that some localities were visited annually by Indigenous communities for thousands of years. In the more arid areas Aboriginal Australians were nomadic, ranging over wide areas in search of scarce food resources. There is evidence of substantial change in indigenous culture over time. Rock painting at several locations in northern Australia has been shown to consist of a sequence of different styles linked to different historical periods. There is also prominent rock paintings found in the Sydney basin area which date to around 5,000 years.\n\nHarry Lourandos has been the leading proponent of the theory that a period of hunter-gatherer intensification occurred between 3000 and 1000 BCE. Intensification involved an increase in human manipulation of the environment (for example, the construction of eel traps in Victoria), population growth, an increase in trade between groups, a more elaborate social structure, and other cultural changes. A shift in stone tool technology, involving the development of smaller and more intricate points and scrapers, occurred around this time. This was probably also associated with the introduction to the mainland of the Australian dingo.\n\nMany Indigenous communities also have a very complex kinship structure and in some places strict rules about marriage. In traditional societies, men are required to marry women of a specific moiety. The system is still alive in many Central Australian communities. To enable men and women to find suitable partners, many groups would come together for annual gatherings (commonly known as corroborees) at which goods were traded, news exchanged, and marriages arranged amid appropriate ceremonies. This practice both reinforced clan relationships and prevented inbreeding in a society based on small semi-nomadic groups.\n\nIn 1770, Lieutenant James Cook claimed the east coast of Australia in the name of the United Kingdom and named it New South Wales. Cook's declaration was made unilaterally and without any consultation with First Australians, in spite of his direct written orders from The Admiralty, which instructed him to conclude a treaty with the inhabitants (if any) and obtain their permission for the expropriation of land. British colonisation of Australia began in Sydney in 1788. The most immediate consequence of British settlement – within weeks of the first colonists' arrival – was a wave of European epidemic diseases such as chickenpox, smallpox, influenza and measles, which spread in advance of the frontier of settlement. The worst-hit communities were the ones with the greatest population densities, where disease could spread more readily. In the arid centre of the continent, where small communities were spread over a vast area, the population decline was less marked. Disease was the principal cause of population decline.\n\nThe second consequence of British settlement was appropriation of land and water resources. The settlers took the view that Aboriginal Australians were nomads with no concept of land ownership, who could be driven off land wanted for farming or grazing and who would be just as happy somewhere else. In fact the loss of traditional lands, food sources and water resources was often fatal, particularly to communities already weakened by disease. Additionally, Aboriginal Australians groups had a deep spiritual and cultural connection to the land, so that in being forced to move away from traditional areas, cultural and spiritual practices necessary to the cohesion and well-being of the group could not be maintained. Proximity to settlers also brought venereal disease, to which Aboriginal Australians had no tolerance and which greatly reduced Aboriginal fertility and birthrates. Settlers also brought alcohol, opium and tobacco, and substance abuse has remained a chronic problem for Aboriginal communities ever since. Entire communities in the moderately fertile southern part of the continent simply vanished without trace, often before European settlers arrived or recorded their existence.\n\nDeadly infectious diseases like smallpox, influenza and tuberculosis were always major causes of Aboriginal deaths. Smallpox alone killed more than 50% of the Aboriginal population. In 1789, a disastrous smallpox epidemic broke out, killing up to 70% of the Indigenous people of the Sydney region. Based on information recorded in the journals of some members of the First Fleet, it has been surmised that the Aborigines of the Sydney region had never encountered the disease before and lacked immunity to it. Unable to understand or counter the sickness, they often fled, leaving the sick with some food and water to fend for themselves. As the clans fled, the epidemic spread further along the coast and into the hinterland. This had a disastrous effect on Aboriginal society; with many of the productive hunters and gatherers dead, those who survived the initial outbreak began to starve.\n\nLieutenant William Bradley recorded the first indications of the severity of the disaster that had struck the Aboriginal population of Sydney when he described his shock at the small number of them to be seen on the harbour and its shores compared with previous times. The British had not seen smallpox in anyone among themselves before the outbreak. Although there were fears about the health of some of the convicts on the First Fleet, these were subsequently dismissed by Surgeon-General John White who believed they were suffering from \"slight inflammatory complaints\". The origin of the smallpox epidemic is controversial, and it has been speculated that the surgeons on board the First Fleet brought vials of smallpox matter and either accidentally or intentionally released it as a \"biological weapon\". In 2014, writing in \"Journal of Australian Studies\", Christopher Warren concluded that British marines were most likely to have spread smallpox, possibly without informing Governor Phillip but conceded in his conclusion that \"today's evidence only provides for a balancing of probabilities and this is all that can be attempted.\"\n\nOn the mainland, prolonged conflict followed the frontier of European settlement. In 1834, John Dunmore Lang wrote: \"There is black blood at this moment on the hands of individuals of good repute in the colony of New South Wales of which all the waters of New Holland would be insufficient to wash out the indelible stains.\" In 1790, an Aboriginal leader Pemulwuy in Sydney resisted the Europeans, waging a guerrilla-style warfare on the settlers in a series of wars known as the Hawkesbury and Nepean Wars, which spanned 26 years, from 1790 to 1816. In 1838, twenty eight Aboriginal people were killed at the Myall Creek massacre; seven of the convict settlers responsible, six white men and one African man, were tried, convicted and hung for the murders. Many Aboriginal communities resisted the settlers, such as the Noongar of south-western Australia, led by Yagan, who was killed in 1833. The Kalkadoon of Queensland also resisted the settlers, and there was a massacre of over 200 people on their land at Battle Mountain in 1884. There was a massacre at Coniston in the Northern Territory in 1928. Poisoning of food and water has been recorded on several different occasions. The number of violent deaths at the hands of white people is still the subject of debate, with a figure of around 10,000 - 20,000 deaths being advanced by historians such as Henry Reynolds. However the methodology behind figures such as this one has been criticised due to the fact that only white deaths were documented in frontier conflicts, forcing historians to estimate a country-wide white-black death ratio in violent confrontations and infer from this the number of Aboriginal deaths. Reynolds, and other historians, estimate that up to 3,000 white people were killed by Aboriginal Australians in the frontier violence. By the 1870s all the fertile areas of Australia had been appropriated, and Aboriginal communities reduced to impoverished remnants living either on the fringes of European communities or on lands considered unsuitable for settlement.\n\nThe Palawa, or Indigenous people of Tasmania, were particularly hard-hit. Nearly all of them, apparently numbering somewhere between 2,000 and 15,000 when white settlement began, were dead by the 1870s. It is widely claimed that this was the result of a genocidal policy, in the form of the \"Black War\". Other historians dispute this. Geoffrey Blainey wrote that, in Tasmania, by 1830: \"Disease had killed most of them but warfare and private violence had also been devastating.\" Josephine Flood wrote: \"The catastrophic death rate was due to new diseases, particularly pulmonary and sexually transmitted ones.\" Historian Keith Windschuttle also disagrees that violence was the principal cause. He argues that there are plausible recorded accounts of approximately 120 Aboriginal Tasmanians killed in 1803–47, that there were an unknown number of unrecorded killings and that many of these were killed in 'self-defence' by settlers. Windschuttle argues some accounts of killings are implausible for a variety of reasons such as incidents involving improbably large death tolls given the muzzle-loading, single-shot muskets in use and that the low number of plausible recorded killings is one indicator of a relatively low level of conflict. Another scholar, H. A. Willis, has subsequently disputed Windschuttle's figures and has documented 188 Palawa killed by settlers in 1803–34 alone, with possibly another 145 killed during the same period. Such counts do not consider undocumented violence and must be regarded as minimum estimates. It is also claimed, but untrue, that the last Aboriginal Tasmanian was Truganini, who died in 1876. This belief stems from a distinction between \"full bloods\" and \"half castes\" that is now generally regarded as racist. Palawa people survived, in missions set up on the islands of Bass Strait.\nNevertheless, some initial contact between Aboriginal people and Europeans was peaceful, starting with the Guugu Yimithirr people who met James Cook near Cooktown in 1770. Bennelong served as interlocutor between the Eora people of Sydney and the British colony, and was the first Aboriginal Australian to travel to England, staying there between 1792 and 1795. Aboriginal people were known to help European explorers, such as John King, who lived with a tribe for two and a half months after the ill-fated Burke and Wills expedition of 1861. Also living with Indigenous people was William Buckley, an escaped convict, who was with the Wautharong people near Melbourne for thirty-two years, before being found in 1835. Many Indigenous people adapted to European culture, working as stock hands or labourers. The first Australian cricket team, which toured England in 1868, was principally made up of Indigenous players.\n\nAs the European pastoral industries developed, several economic changes came about. The appropriation of prime land and the spread of European livestock over vast areas made a traditional Indigenous lifestyle less viable, but also provided a ready alternative supply of fresh meat for those prepared to incur the settlers' anger by hunting livestock. The impact of disease and the settlers' industries had a profound impact on the Indigenous Australians' way of life. With the exception of a few in the remote interior, all surviving Indigenous communities gradually became dependent on the settler population for their livelihood.\n\nIn south-eastern Australia, during the 1850s, large numbers of white pastoral workers deserted employment on stations for the Australian goldrushes. Indigenous women, men and children became a significant source of labour. Most Indigenous labour was unpaid, instead Indigenous workers received rations in the form of food, clothing and other basic necessities. In the later 19th century, settlers made their way north and into the interior, appropriating small but vital parts of the land for their own exclusive use (waterholes and soaks in particular), and introducing sheep, rabbits and cattle, all three of which ate out previously fertile areas and degraded the ability of the land to carry the native animals that were vital to Indigenous economies. Indigenous hunters would often spear sheep and cattle, incurring the wrath of graziers, after they replaced the native animals as a food source. As large sheep and cattle stations came to dominate northern Australia, Indigenous workers were quickly recruited. Several other outback industries, notably pearling, also employed Aboriginal workers.\n\nIn many areas Christian missions provided food and clothing for Indigenous communities and also opened schools and orphanages for Indigenous children. In some places colonial governments provided some resources.\n\nIn spite of the impact of disease, violence and the spread of foreign settlement and custom, some Indigenous communities in remote desert and tropical rainforest areas survived according to traditional means until well into the 20th century. In 1914 around 800 Aboriginal people answered the call to arms, despite restrictions on Indigenous Australians serving in the military. As the war continued, these restrictions were relaxed as more recruits were needed. Many enlisted by claiming they were Māori or Indian.\n\nBy the 1920s, the Indigenous population had declined to between 50,000 and 90,000, and the belief that the Indigenous Australians would soon die out was widely held, even among Australians sympathetic to their situation. But by about 1930, those Indigenous Australians who had survived had acquired better resistance to imported diseases, and birthrates began to rise again as communities were able to adapt to changed circumstances. From the 1940s, the availability of penicillin to treat imported diseases also had a marked effect on reversing the population decline.\n\nIn the Northern Territory, significant frontier conflict continued. Both isolated Europeans and visiting Asian fishermen were killed by hunter gatherers until the start of World War II in 1939. It is known that some European settlers in the centre and north of the country shot Indigenous people during this period. One particular series of killings became known as the Caledon Bay crisis, and became a watershed in the relationship between Indigenous and non-Indigenous Australians.\n\nIn the early 20th century, anthropologists' influence dominated society's view of aboriginals in Australia. They were viewed as a different race that was not as evolved as Europeans. Starting in the 1880 and continuing into the 20th century, debate continued on where between ape and man could the aboriginal be situated in evolutionary terms. In the mid-1920s, there was a shift in focus away from physical anthropological issues of race and towards a cultural anthropological concerns established by field-work. New studies described aboriginals' social organisation, religious belief and practice. Alfred Radcliffe-Brown, the father of modern social anthropology, published his \"Social Organization of Australian Tribes\" in 1931.\n\nBy the end of World War II, many Indigenous men had served in the military and were paid an equitable salary. However, Aboriginal workers remained unfree labourers, paid only small amounts of cash in addition to rations, and had their movements severely restricted by regulations and/or police action. On 4 February 1939, Jack Patten led a strike at Cummeragunja Mission in New South Wales. The people of Cummeragunja were protesting their harsh treatment under what was a draconian system. A once successful farming enterprise was taken from their control, and residents were forced to subsist on meager rations. Approximately 200 people left their homes, taking part in the Cummeragunja walk-off, and the majority crossed the border into Victoria, never to return home.\n\nOn 1 May 1946, Aboriginal station workers in the Pilbara region of Western Australia started the 1946 Pilbara strike and never returned to work. Mass layoffs across northern Australia followed the Federal Pastoral Industry Award of 1968, which required the payment of a minimum wage to Aboriginal station workers, as they were not paid by the Pastoralist discretion, many however were not and those who were had their money held by the government. Many of the workers and their families became refugees or fringe dwellers, living in camps on the outskirts of towns and cities.\n\nIn 1949, the right to vote in federal elections was extended to Indigenous Australians who had served in the armed forces, or were enrolled to vote in state elections. At that time, those Indigenous Australians who lived in Queensland, Western Australia and the Northern Territory were still ineligible to vote in state elections, consequently they did not have the right to vote in federal elections.\n\nAll Indigenous Australians were given the right to vote in Commonwealth elections in Australia by the Menzies government in 1962. The first federal election in which all Aboriginal Australians could vote was held in November 1963. The right to vote in state elections was granted in Western Australia in 1962 and Queensland was the last state to do so in 1965.\n\nThe 1967 referendum, passed with a 90% majority, allowed Indigenous Australians to be included in the Commonwealth parliament's power to make special laws for specific races, and to be included in counts to determine electoral representation. This has been the largest affirmative vote in the history of Australia's referendums.\n\nIn 1971, Yolngu people at Yirrkala sought an injunction against Nabalco to cease mining on their traditional land. In the resulting historic and controversial Gove land rights case, Justice Blackburn ruled that Australia had been terra nullius before European settlement, and that no concept of Native title existed in Australian law. Although the Yolngu people were defeated in this action, the effect was to highlight the absurdity of the law, which led first to the Woodward Commission, and then to the Aboriginal Land Rights Act.\n\nIn 1972, the Aboriginal Tent Embassy was established on the steps of Parliament House in Canberra, in response to the sentiment among Indigenous Australians that they were \"strangers in their own country\". A Tent Embassy still exists on the same site.\n\nIn 1975, the Whitlam government drafted the Aboriginal Land Rights Act, which aimed to restore traditional lands to Indigenous people. After the dismissal of the Whitlam government by the Governor-General, a reduced-scope version of the Act (known as the Aboriginal Land Rights Act 1976) was introduced by the coalition government led by Malcolm Fraser. While its application was limited to the Northern Territory, it did grant \"inalienable\" freehold title to some traditional lands.\n\nIn 1984, a group of Pintupi people who were living a traditional hunter-gatherer desert-dwelling life were tracked down in the Gibson Desert in Western Australia and brought into a settlement. They are believed to have been the last uncontacted tribe in Australia.\n\nA 1987 federal government report described the history of the \"Aboriginal Homelands Movement\" or \"Return to Country movement\" as \"a concerted attempt by Aboriginal people in the 'remote' areas of Australia to leave government settlements, reserves, missions and non-Aboriginal townships and to re-occupy their traditional country.\"\n\nIn 1992, the Australian High Court handed down its decision in the Mabo Case, declaring the previous legal concept of \"terra nullius\" to be invalid. This decision legally recognised certain land claims of Indigenous Australians in Australia prior to British Settlement. Legislation was subsequently enacted and later amended to recognise Native Title claims over land in Australia.\n\nIn 1998, as the result of an inquiry into the forced removal of Indigenous children (see Stolen generation) from their families, a National Sorry Day was instituted, to acknowledge the wrong that had been done to Indigenous families. Many politicians, from both sides of the house, participated, with the notable exception of the Prime Minister, John Howard.\n\nIn 1999 a referendum was held to change the Australian Constitution to include a preamble that, amongst other topics, recognised the occupation of Australia by Indigenous Australians prior to British Settlement. This referendum was defeated, though the recognition of Indigenous Australians in the preamble was not a major issue in the referendum discussion, and the preamble question attracted minor attention compared to the question of becoming a republic.\n\nIn 2004, the Australian Government abolished The Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Commission (ATSIC), which had been Australia's top Indigenous organisation. The Commonwealth cited corruption and, in particular, made allegations concerning the misuse of public funds by ATSIC's chairman, Geoff Clark, as the principal reason. Indigenous specific programmes have been mainstreamed, that is, reintegrated and transferred to departments and agencies serving the general population. The Office of Indigenous Policy Coordination was established within the then Department of Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs, and now with the Department of Families, Community Services and Indigenous Affairs to coordinate a \"whole of government\" effort.\n\nIn June 2005, Richard Frankland, founder of the 'Your Voice' political party, in an open letter to Prime Minister John Howard, advocated that the eighteenth-century conflicts between Aboriginal and colonial Australians \"be recognised as wars and be given the same attention as the other wars receive within the Australian War Memorial\". In its editorial on 20 June 2005, Melbourne newspaper, The Age, said that \"Frankland has raised an important question,\" and asked whether moving \"work commemorating Aborigines who lost their lives defending their land ... to the War Memorial [would] change the way we regard Aboriginal history.\"\n\nIn 2008, Prime Minister Kevin Rudd made a formal apology for the Stolen Generations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21368780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21368780", "title": "IT History Society", "text": "IT History Society\n\nThe IT History Society (ITHS) is an organization that supports the history and scholarship of information technology by encouraging, fostering, and facilitating archival and historical research. Formerly known as the Charles Babbage Foundation, it advises historians, promotes collaboration among academic organizations and museums, and assists IT corporations in preparing and archiving their histories for future studies.\n\nThe IT History Society provides background information to those with an interest in the history of Information Technology, including papers that provide advice on how to perform historical work and how historical activities can benefit private sector organizations. It tracks historical projects seeking funding as well as projects underway and completed. It maintains online, publicly available, lists of events pertaining to IT history, IT history resources, an IT Honor Roll acknowledging more than 700 individuals who have made a noteworthy contribution to the information technology industry, and a database of notable technology quotes.\n\nA continuing project is one of aggregating the locations and content of IT history archival information around the world to facilitate and encourage IT history research and scholarship. This International Database of Historical and Archival Sites currently consists of 1,663 international information technology historical and archival collections encompassing over 49.8 million documents. An IT Hardware database has been added consisting of 12,187 entries, an IT Honor Roll with 1,031 entries, and a Technical Quotes database with over 1,000 entries. These databases are being added to on a regular basis an IT Software and IT Companies databases will debut soon. ITHS holds an annual meeting and conference.\n\nThe current chairman is Jeffery Stein of Peyton Investments. The Trustees, Historical Advisory Committee, and Archival Advisory Committee are made up of distinguished individuals who have created technology, built companies, and recorded IT events as archivists or historians. The Board of Directors also includes David G. Arscott, Leslie Berlin, James Cortada, Peter Cunningham, Gideon Gartner, Brewster Kahle, William Hugh Murray, Frederic G. Withington, George Dyson, Nolan Bushnell, Randy Katz, and Lars Heide.\n\nCurrent membership totals over 700, with fifty percent of the members residing in countries outside the United States. Memberships are divided into three categories: individual, corporation, and institution. Membership is free. Corporate and institutional members include California Institute of Technology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Museum, Smithsonian Institution, Computer History Museum, Deutsches Museum, IEEE History Center, Hewlett-Packard Company, IBM Corporation, UK National Archive for the History of Computing, Intel, Microsoft Corporation, Stanford Silicon Valley Archives, Applied Materials, Symantec, Agilent Technologies Foundation, Internet Archive, History San Jose, FedEx, British Library, Hans Nixdorf Museum, and McKesson Corporation.\n\nThe International Charles Babbage Society was founded in 1978 and operated out of Palo Alto, California. The following year the American Federation of Information Processing Societies (AFIPS) became a principal sponsor of the Society, which was renamed the Charles Babbage Institute.\n\nIn 1980, the Institute moved to the University of Minnesota, which contracted with the principals of the Charles Babbage Institute to sponsor and house the Institute. A new entity, the Charles Babbage Foundation, was created to help support and govern the Institute, in partnership with the University. In 1989, CBI became an organized research unit of the University.\n\nAround 2000, CBF broadened its mission to support the history of information technology through other organizations, collaborating, for example, with the Sloan Foundation, Software History Center, and the Computer History Museum in experimenting with Internet-based archival and historical research. In 2002, the Charles Babbage Foundation broadened its mission to support the entire IT history community. In 2007, CBF changed its name to the IT History Society and reworked its programs to better support the IT history community.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30236189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30236189", "title": "Inder Sabha", "text": "Inder Sabha\n\nInder Sabha (Urdu: اِندر سبها) is an Urdu play and opera written by Agha Hasan Amanat, and first staged in 1853. It is regarded as the first complete Urdu stage play ever written. The play was translated into German in the 1880s as a doctoral thesis at the University of Leizig by Friedrich Rosen, and published to positive critical reception in 1892. A movie, \"Indrasabha\", based on the play was released by Madan Theatre in 1932.\n\nThe opera is set in the celestial court of Indra, the king of the gods (devas) in Hindu mythology. The play is written entirely in verse, and the central theme is a romance between a prince and a fairy. Operatic devices such as fireworks and masks are employed in enacting the play. Although the play was initially intended to be performed in royal court, songs from the play influenced the \"geet\" tradition in Urdu and quickly transitioned into popular culture, where \"\"for at least two generations after that, actors and musicians of Oudh sang the songs of Inder Sabha\".\" The play included \"\"31 ghazals, 9 thumri of gaya and bananas gharana, 4 holis, 15 songs and two chaubolas and five chhands with enough scope for dances as well\".\"\n\nThe play is considered a seminal work that directly influenced several important nineteenth and early-twentieth century Urdu plays that followed it, including Khadim Husain Afsos's \"Bazm-e-Suleman\" (1862), Bahiron Singh Asmat's \"Jashn-e-Parastan\" and Taj Mahal Farrukh's \"Nigaristan-e-Farrukh\" (1911).\n\nAlthough it is widely regarded as the first Urdu stage play, there is dispute on how the play came to be created. While some historians have contended that Agha Hasan Amanat was commissioned by Wajid Ali Shah to write it, others (such as Abdul Halim Sharar) have disputed this claim and asserted that it was written entirely independently by Amanat.\n\nReleased in 1932, \"Indrasabha\" was one of the earliest sound films made in India, the very next year after \"Alam Ara\", which was the first Indian talkie. It featured over seventy songs and was 211 minutes long. The movie was made by Jamshedji Framji Madan's company, Madan Theatre. \"Indrasabha\" holds the world record for the most number of songs (72) in any musical ever made.\n\n\n\"BHOJPURI FILMON KA SAFARNAMA By Raviraj Patel \" \nhttps://books.google.co.in/books?id=_GZtCwAAQBAJ&printsec=frontcover&source=gbs_ge_summary_r&cad=0#v=onepage&q&f=false"}
{"id": "383371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=383371", "title": "Jack Granatstein", "text": "Jack Granatstein\n\nJack Lawrence Granatstein, (born May 21, 1939) is a Canadian historian who specializes in political and military history.\n\nBorn in Toronto, Ontario, Granatstein received a graduation diploma from Royal Military College Saint-Jean in 1959, his BA from the Royal Military College of Canada (RMC) in 1961, his MA from the University of Toronto in 1962 and his Ph.D from Duke University in 1966.\n\nGranatstein served in the Canadian Army from 1956 to 1966. He then taught at York University until 1996 where he is Distinguished Research Professor of History Emeritus.\n\nGranatstein is an outspoken defender of traditional narrative history in lectures, books, print, and broadcast media. Perhaps his best known work is \"Who Killed Canadian History?\", which expressed his alarm at the widespread ignorance of history among students, and the distortions he complained were perpetrated by a new generation of social historians. He wrote of an ideological war waged inside university history departments:\n\nHe is the author of over sixty other books, including \"Yankee Go Home?\", \"Who Killed The Canadian Military?\", and \"Victory 1945\" (with Desmond Morton). \"The Generals\" won the J.W. Dafoe Prize and the UBC Medal for Canadian Biography. \"The Last Good War\" was awarded the Canadian Authors Association's 2005 Lela Common Award for Canadian History.\n\nHe was a member of the RMC Board of Governors and is Chair of the Council for Canadian Security in the 21st Century.\n\nGranatstein has also been involved in television coverage of political and military events. On June 6, 1994, he was part of the CBC's coverage of the 50th anniversary of D-Day, as the network's chief correspondent, Peter Mansbridge got expert help in the commentary from Granatstein. Granatstein helped Mansbridge again on May 8, 1995, during the CBC's coverage of the 50th anniversary of VE Day. He reprised the same role on the 60th and 65th anniversaries of D-Day and V-E Day.\n\nJack Granatstein served as the head of the Canadian War Museum in Ottawa from 1998 to 2001 and was a driving force behind the building of the museum's new home that opened in 2005. He currently sits on the Advisory Council and is a Distinguished Research Fellow at the Canadian Defence and Foreign Affairs Institute.\n\nThe Royal Society of Canada awarded him the J.B. Tyrrell Historical Medal (1992) for \"outstanding work in the history of Canada\". In 1996, the Conference of Defence Associations Institute named him winner of the Vimy Award.\n\nIn 1996, he became an Officer of the Order of Canada, and he won the National History Society's Pierre Berton Prize in 2004 and the Organization for the History of Canada's National History Award in 2006. He has received honorary degrees from the University of Western Ontario, the University of Calgary, as well as Memorial University of Newfoundland, McMaster University, Niagara University, and Ryerson University.\n\nJack Granatstein is a descendant of Mendel Granatstein, a Polish Jew, who emigrated to Toronto where he became a successful business owner in the textile industry and became the first Jew to own a home in Toronto. The Granatstein house at 42 St. George Street was acquired by the University of Toronto 1947 and was demolished to make room for the Bahen Centre in 1999.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51065419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51065419", "title": "James Cooper (minister)", "text": "James Cooper (minister)\n\nJames Cooper (1846–1922) was a Church of Scotland minister and church historian.\n\nHe was the son of John Alexander Cooper, a local merchant and farmer, born in Elgin, Moray. He studied at Elgin Academy and Aberdeen University, graduating M.A. in 1867. He was minister at Broughty Ferry near Dundee, and then in Aberdeen, being appointed in 1899 by Glasgow University as Professor of Ecclesiastical History.\n\nIn 1917 Cooper acted as Moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland. He was active in the foundation of the Scottish Church Society and Scottish Ecclesiological Society.\n\n"}
{"id": "55187297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55187297", "title": "Land speed racing", "text": "Land speed racing\n\nLand speed racing is a form of motorsport. \n\nLand speed racing is best known for the efforts to break the absolute land speed record, but it is not limited to specialist vehicles.\n\nThe sport's origins date to the 1930s in California, when the Southern California Timing Association first held meets for a variety of hot rodded vehicles.\n\nEver since, any vehicle – car, truck, or motorcycle – able to meet the safety regulations has been able to make an attempt to break the existing record. The record is set by averaging two runs (commonly called \"passes\"), one in either direction, within the space of two hours.\n\nAll vehicles are separated by classes based on displacement. Vintage engines, like the Ford Flathead, Buick Straight Eight, Stovebolt engine and others are raced in the vintage classes. These consist of:\n\n\nIn 1906, Dorothy Levitt broke the women's world speed record for the flying kilometer, recording a speed of 91 mph (146.25 km/h) and receiving the sobriquet the \"Fastest Girl on Earth\". She drove a six-cylinder Napier motorcar, a 100 hp (74.6 kW) development of the K5, in a speed trial in Blackpool. \n\nA subsequent record was set by Lee Breedlove, the wife of Craig Breedlove, who piloted her husband's \"Spirit of America - Sonic 1\" to a record of in 1965. According to author Rachel Kushner, Craig Breedlove had talked Lee into taking the car out for a record attempt in order to monopolize the salt flats for the day and block one of his competitors from making a record attempt.\n\nThe current women's absolute record is held by Kitty O'Neil, in the jet-powered \"SMI Motivator\", set at the Alvord Desert in 1976. O'Neil reached .\n\nThere is no \"wheel-driven\" category as such. The Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile validates records in a variety of classes, of which the \"wheel-driven\" classes are in Category A (Special cars) and Category B (Production cars). The accepted record is fastest average speed recorded over any one-mile or one-kilometer distance, averaged over two runs in opposite directions (to factor out wind) within one hour of each other. The most recent wheel-driven record holders have been from a variety of different classes within Category A.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55759577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55759577", "title": "Larisa Dodkhudoeva", "text": "Larisa Dodkhudoeva\n\nLarisa Nazarovna Dodkhudoeva (born 1947) is a Tajikistani art historian.\n\nBorn in Dushanbe, Dodkhudoeva is the daughter of politician Nazarsho Dodkhudoev; her sister Lola is a historian of some repute. She graduated from the Repin Institute in Leningrad in 1970; eight years later she received a doctorate in Islamic culture from the Institute of Oriental Studies of the USSR Academy of Sciences. In 1988 she received another doctorate, this one in history, from the Institute of History, Archaeology and Ethnography of the Tajikistan Academy of Sciences. She began her academic career as a researcher at the Institute in 1970, later rising to become head of the Department of South Asia, the Institute of World Economy and International Relations from 1993 until 1996; from then until 2000 she was Deputy Director of the Institute of World Economy and International Relations. More recently, she has served as Chief Researcher in the Institute of History, Archaeology and Ethnography of the Tajikistan Academy of Sciences, where she has also headed the ethnographic department. During her career, Dodkhudoeva has received recognition from numerous international institutions; in 1999 she was awarded a certificate by the University of Nebraska for involvement in peace and reconciliation in Tajikistan, and in 2001 she received an award from the Central European University for her cultural work. She has also received numerous grants from various entities during her career. She is a past member of the Institute for Advanced Studies. Many of her publications deal with Tajik and Islamic art and culture. Selected writings include:\n\n\nShe has also published work in conjunction with her sister.\n"}
{"id": "6202264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6202264", "title": "Licence to crenellate", "text": "Licence to crenellate\n\nIn medieval England, Wales and the Channel Islands a licence to crenellate (or licence to fortify) granted the holder permission to fortify their property. Such licences were granted by the king, and by the rulers of the counties palatine within their jurisdictions, i.e. by the Bishops of Durham, the Earls of Chester, and after 1351 by the Dukes of Lancaster.\n\nLicences to crenellate were issued in the 12th to 16th centuries. The earliest licences present a point of contention, for instance though authorities such as John Goodall in his book \"The English Castle\" considers a charter of 1127 to be one such licence, it was rejected as such by Philip Davis. In 1199 the administration of the country began to be systematically recorded, and the majority of licences survive in the Patent Rolls. Letters patent were distributed and were a public declaration that the person named within had been granted permission by the king to build a fortification. During periods of conflict, the number of licences granted usually increased. Only in a small number of cases did the Crown levy fees against those applying for licences to crenellate, and then was only a small amount, a mark or half a mark.\n\nWhile licences were mostly granted to men, eleven women are mentioned in the surviving licences and four licences were granted directly to women. Of those given permission to build fortifications, most were knights rather than the upper members of the aristocracy. Most applicants were individuals; however, towns could also apply and 28 licences relate to town defences. And while most people who secured licences were secular, ecclesiastic institutions were also eligible: 44 licenses relate to churches, abbeys, and cathedrals.\n\nThe term \"licence to crenellate\" was coined in the 19th century to describe documents that granted the holder permission to build fortifications. The reference to crenellation was chosen specifically because most of these documents made references to battlements. There has been academic debate over the purpose of licensing. The view of military-focused historians is that licensing restricted the number of fortifications that could be used against a royal army. The modern view, proposed notably by Charles Coulson, is that in time battlements became an architectural status-symbol much sought after by the socially ambitious. As he puts it, \"Licences to crenellate were mainly symbolic representations of lordly status: castellation was the architectural expression of noble rank.\"\n\nThere are over 1,500 castles in England; however, the 460 surviving licences only refer to just over 500 sites. According to Goodall, this undermines the assertion that builders had to seek permission from the Crown. Moreover, requests were rarely refused. Licences indicated to the observer that the grantee had obtained \"royal recognition, acknowledgement and compliment.\"\n\nAt Cooling Castle in Kent, a brass plaque on the outer gatehouse, an engraved charter of 1381, reads, \"I am made in the help of the country.\" For archaeologist Matthew Johnson, the castle's defences are a sham, as there was no room for a parapet on top of the walls, and the gunports of the inner gatehouse were impractical. The architecture is effectively a boast of military importance, as is the licence.\n\nThe castle's defences could, however, act as a deterrent against wandering bands of thieves, and Davis has suggested that the function of battlements was comparable to the modern practice of householders fitting highly visible CCTV and burglar alarms, often merely dummies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52130966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52130966", "title": "List of obelisks", "text": "List of obelisks\n\nThis List of obelisks contains an incomplete list of obelisks sorted by their (current) country.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBoston MA Bunker Hill Monument\n\n\n"}
{"id": "889104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=889104", "title": "Massurrealism", "text": "Massurrealism\n\nMassurrealism is a portmanteau word coined in 1992 by American artist James Seehafer, who described a trend among some postmodern artists that mix the aesthetic styles and themes of surrealism and mass media—including pop art.\n\nMassurrealism is a development of surrealism that emphasizes the effect of technology and mass media on contemporary surrealist imagery. James Seehafer who is credited with coining the term in 1992 said that he was prompted to do so because there was no extant definition to accurately characterize the type of work he was doing, which combined elements of surrealism and mass media, the latter consisting of technology and pop art—\"a form of technology art.\" He had begun his work by using a shopping cart, which \"represented American mass-consumerism that fuels mass-media\", and then incorporated collages of colour photocopies and spray paint with the artist's traditional medium of oil paint.\n\nIn 1995, he assembled a small group show near New York City and found a local cyber-cafe, where he started to post material about massurrealism on internet arts news groups, inspiring some German art students to stage a massurrealist show. The next year he started his own web site, www.massurrealism.com and began to receive work from other artists, both mixed media and digitally-generated. He credits the World Wide Web with a major role in communicating massurrealism, which spread interest from artists in Los Angeles, Mexico and then Europe. Seehafer has said:\n\nThe differentiating factor, according to Seehafer, between surrealism and massurrealism is the foundation of the former in the early 20th century in Europe before the spread of electronic mass media. It is difficult to define the visual style of massurrealism, though a general characteristic is the use of modern technology to fuse surrealism's traditional access to the unconscious with pop art's ironic contradictions.\n\nIn 2005, graffiti artist Banksy illicitly hung a rock in the British Museum showing a caveman pushing a shopping cart, which Shelley Esaak of about.com described as \"a nice tribute to James Seehafer and Massurrealism.\"\n\nBritish artist Alan King started to experiment with a combination of digital and traditional art methods in the 1990s, producing a majority of his works by using computer techniques combined with a multitude of traditional methods including oils, acrylic, and watercolour.\n\nNationally renowned photographer Chip Simons incorporates both his photo images with digital collage.\nCecil Touchon, who works with sound collage & poetry, is a massurrealist artist.\n\nGerman artist Melanie Marie Kreuzhof, who describes her work as massurrealistic, was commissioned in 2004 by the editor of the \"Spectakel Salzburger Festsiele Inside\" magazine to produce an artwork about Erich Wolfgang Korngold's opera Die tote Stadt at the Salzburg Festival. To make her work she took 9 digital photographs, composed them in a computer and printed the result directly onto canvas, which was then attached to a wooden frame, worked on with acrylic paint and had objects attached—3 guitar strings, a strand of hair and a silk scarf. The images and elements were derived from themes in the opera.\n\nMetaphysical art\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41031049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41031049", "title": "Mohammad Sharif Chattar", "text": "Mohammad Sharif Chattar\n\nDr Mohammad Sharif Chattar (1935-2007) was an educationist, botanist, author and poet and the first PhD of Azad Kashmir (Pakistani administered kashmir). His research covered the plants and vegetation of the Cholistan desert in Punjab and the Thar desert in Sindh provinces of Pakistan. He is the author of three books on the subject of botany and many research articles. His only book on poetry could not be published due to his sudden death.\n\nBorn into the family of prominent Rajput Zamindars of Phulyana ( Rajouri), he had a difficult childhood as he was born two months after the death of his father. He was youngest of the five brothers. He received early education from his maternal grand father who was a notable religious figure. At the age of thirteen, he migrated to Pakistan after the independence of Pakistan in 1947. His family settled down at village Pindi Subherwal in Khari Sharif area of Mirpur District. He obtained primary and secondary education from Afzalpur and then went to Quetta with his elder brother who was a Subedar in Pakistan army. He passed F.Sc from Quetta and then graduated from Government College Lahore. After completing postgraduate degree in Botany from Jamshoro, University of Sindh, he joined Water and Power development Authority (WAPDA) for a very short period of time. He left the job due to his interest in teaching and joined the education sector as a young Lecturer at, the Gordon College Rawalpindi. He was greatly inspired by Prof Ralph Randles Stewart who was the principal of Gordon College. In order to look after his mother, he left the job at Gordon College and started working as a forest officer in the Forest department of Azad Kashmir. At the request of ministry of education, he again joined the education sector and later transferred to Govt. College Mirpur. He won a scholarship and went to Hungary for higher studies. He achieved PhD in Botany from the University of Szeged.\n\nHe was known for iron handed administration in the institutions, outspoken stance against unsuitable education policies of the Government and requisition of the Government properties occupied by the land mafias. He survived three attempts on his life but nothing could divert his attention from the principles he stood for. He was called \"Gun-Toting Teacher\" by the critics. He was aggressively vocal against the gun culture and politics in the educational institutions which earned him many enemies. He had many rivals in the education sector who were continuously threatened by his daring stands against irregularities in the department. Due to his self made principles and uncompromising attitude towards corruption, he was never promoted to the higher positions. He remained Principal of different Colleges for almost twenty five years. He was not even transferred to his own city and as a matter of fact, spent all his working life stationed hundreds of kilometer away from his home.\n\nHe was greatly respected by his students, colleagues, higher authorities and also by the rivals for his devoted efforts to promote academic, research and sports facilities in the institutions he served. Legend says that he was so much feared and respected by the subordinates and students that no body would leave the college premises without permission. He enforced discipline in the educational institutions when they were highly politicized and sprawling with deadly violence. After serving the Govt.Degree Colleges of Muzaffarabad, Dadyal (twice), Palandri and Rawalakot he retired as a principal from the College of Education Afzalpur in 1996.\n\nOn 24 July 2007 he suffered from a heart attack. He survived but after six days his condition deteriorated. He was taken to Al-Shifa hospital Islamabad but on Thursday 2 August 2007, he died peacefully.\n\nHe is buried inside the courtyard of Baba Peer-e-Shah Ghazi and near the shrine of famous Sufi poet of Kashmir, Mian Muhammad Bakhsh.\n\n"}
{"id": "18306633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18306633", "title": "Msoura", "text": "Msoura\n\nMsoura (also \"Mzoura\") is an archaeological site of a stone circle in northern Morocco. It is located 25 kilometres south of Asilah, and consists of 167 monoliths surrounding a tumulus of almost 55 metres of diameter. One of the monoliths, known as \"El Uted\" (the pointer) measures more than 5 m. Legend claims it is the tomb of the giant Antaeus.\n\nAs of 2009, the site is connected to the coastal town of Asilah by a tarmac road.\n\n\nUntil better rural road mapping is available, this OpenStreetMaps link shows roads connecting Asilah and Msoura based on actual GPS tracks.\n"}
{"id": "382251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=382251", "title": "Natural philosophy", "text": "Natural philosophy\n\nNatural philosophy or philosophy of nature (from Latin \"philosophia naturalis\") was the philosophical study of nature and the physical universe that was dominant before the development of modern science. It is considered to be the precursor of natural science.\n\nFrom the ancient world, starting with Aristotle, to the 19th century, the term \"natural philosophy\" was the common term used to describe the practice of studying nature. It was in the 19th century that the concept of \"science\" received its modern shape with new titles emerging such as \"biology\" and \"biologist\", \"physics\" and \"physicist\" among other technical fields and titles; institutions and communities were founded, and unprecedented applications to and interactions with other aspects of society and culture occurred. Isaac Newton's book \"Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica\" (1687), whose title translates to \"Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy\", reflects the then-current use of the words \"natural philosophy\", akin to \"systematic study of nature\". Even in the 19th century, a treatise by Lord Kelvin and Peter Guthrie Tait, which helped define much of modern physics, was titled \"Treatise on Natural Philosophy\" (1867).\n\nIn the German tradition, \"Naturphilosophie\" (philosophy of nature) persisted into the 18th and 19th century as an attempt to achieve a speculative unity of nature and spirit. Some of the greatest names in German philosophy are associated with this movement, including Goethe, Hegel and Schelling. \"Naturphilosophie\" was associated with Romanticism and a view that regarded the natural world as a kind of giant organism, as opposed to the philosophical approach of figures such as John Locke and Isaac Newton who espoused a more mechanical view of the world, regarding it as being like a machine.\n\nThe term \"natural philosophy\" preceded our current \"natural science\" (i.e. empirical science). Empirical science historically developed out of philosophy or, more specifically, natural philosophy. Natural philosophy was distinguished from the other precursor of modern science, natural history, in that natural philosophy involved reasoning and explanations about nature (and after Galileo, quantitative reasoning), whereas natural history was essentially qualitative and descriptive.\n\nIn the 14th and 15th centuries, natural philosophy was one of many branches of philosophy, but was not a specialized field of study. The first person appointed as a specialist in Natural Philosophy \"per se\" was Jacopo Zabarella, at the University of Padua in 1577.\n\nModern meanings of the terms \"science\" and \"scientists\" date only to the 19th century. Before that, \"science\" was a synonym for \"knowledge\" or \"study\", in keeping with its Latin origin. The term gained its modern meaning when experimental science and the scientific method became a specialized branch of study apart from natural philosophy.\n\nFrom the mid-19th century, when it became increasingly unusual for scientists to contribute to both physics and chemistry, \"natural philosophy\" came to mean just \"physics\", and the word is still used in that sense in degree titles at the University of Oxford. In general, chairs of Natural Philosophy established long ago at the oldest universities are nowadays occupied mainly by physics professors. Isaac Newton's book \"Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica\" (1687), whose title translates to \"Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy\", reflects the then-current use of the words \"natural philosophy\", akin to \"systematic study of nature\". Even in the 19th century, a treatise by Lord Kelvin and Peter Guthrie Tait, which helped define much of modern physics, was titled \"Treatise on Natural Philosophy\" (1867).\n\nGreek philosophers defined it as the combination of beings living in the universe, ignoring things made by humans. The other definition refers to human nature.\n\nIn Plato's earliest known dialogue, \"Charmides\" distinguishes between \"science\" or bodies of knowledge that produce a physical result, and those that do not. Natural philosophy has been categorized as a theoretical rather than a practical branch of philosophy (like ethics). Sciences that guide arts and draw on the philosophical knowledge of nature may produce practical results, but these subsidiary sciences (e.g., architecture or medicine) go beyond natural philosophy.\n\nThe study of natural philosophy seeks to explore the cosmos by any means necessary to understand the universe. Some ideas presuppose that change is a reality. Although this may seem obvious, there have been some philosophers who have denied the concept of metamorphosis, such as Plato's predecessor Parmenides and later Greek philosopher Sextus Empiricus, and perhaps some Eastern philosophers. George Santayana, in his \"Scepticism and Animal Faith,\" attempted to show that the reality of change cannot be proven. If his reasoning is sound, it follows that to be a physicist, one must restrain one's skepticism enough to trust one's senses, or else rely on anti-realism.\n\nRené Descartes' metaphysical system of mind–body dualism describes two kinds of substance: matter and mind. According to this system, everything that is \"matter\" is deterministic and natural—and so belongs to natural philosophy—and everything that is \"mind\" is volitional and non-natural, and falls outside the domain of philosophy of nature.\n\nMajor branches of natural philosophy include astronomy and cosmology, the study of nature on the grand scale; etiology, the study of (intrinsic and sometimes extrinsic) causes; the study of chance, probability and randomness; the study of elements; the study of the infinite and the unlimited (virtual or actual); the study of matter; mechanics, the study of translation of motion and change; the study of nature or the various sources of actions; the study of natural qualities; the study of physical quantities; the study of relations between physical entities; and the philosophy of space and time. (Adler, 1993)\n\nHumankind's mental engagement with nature certainly predates civilization and the record of history. Philosophical, and specifically non-religious thought about the natural world, goes back to ancient Greece. These lines of thought began before Socrates, who turned from his philosophical studies from speculations about nature to a consideration of man, viz., political philosophy. The thought of early philosophers such Parmenides, Heraclitus, and Democritus centered on the natural world. In addition, three presocratic philosophers who lived in the Ionian town of Miletus (hence the Milesian School of philosophy,) Thales, Anaximander, and Anaximenes, attempted to explain natural phenomena without recourse to creation myths involving the Greek gods. They were called the \"physikoi\" (natural philosophers,) or, as Aristotle referred to them, the \"physiologoi\". Plato followed Socrates in concentrating on man. It was Plato's student, Aristotle, who, in basing his thought on the natural world, returned empiricism to its primary place, while leaving room in the world for man. Martin Heidegger observes that Aristotle was the originator of conception of nature that prevailed in the Middle Ages into the modern era:\n\nAristotle surveyed the thought of his predecessors and conceived of nature in a way that charted a middle course between their excesses.\n\n\"The world we inhabit is an orderly one, in which things generally behave in predictable ways, Aristotle argued, because every natural object has a \"nature\"—an attribute (associated primarily with form) that makes the object behave in its customary fashion...\" Aristotle recommended four causes as appropriate for the business of the natural philosopher, or physicist, “and if he refers his problems back to all of them, he will assign the ‘why’ in the way proper to his science—the matter, the form, the mover, [and] ‘that for the sake of which’”. While the vagaries of the material cause are subject to circumstance, the formal, efficient and final cause often coincide because in natural kinds, the mature form and final cause are one and the same. The capacity to mature into a specimen of one's kind is directly acquired from “the primary source of motion”, i.e., from one's father, whose seed (\"sperma\") conveys the essential nature (common to the species), as a hypothetical \"ratio\".\n\n\nFrom the late Middle Ages into the modern era, the tendency has been to narrow \"science\" to the consideration of efficient or agency-based causes of a particular kind:\n\nMedieval thoughts on motion involved much of Aristotle's works \"Physics\" and \"Metaphysics\". The issue that medieval philosophers had with motion was the inconsistency found between book 3 of \"Physics\" and book 5 of \"Metaphysics\". Aristotle claimed in book 3 of \"Physics\" that motion can be categorized by substance, quantity, quality, and place. where in book 5 of \"Metaphysics\" he stated that motion is a magnitude of quantity. This disputation led to some important questions to natural philosophers: Which category/categories does motion fit into? Is motion the same thing as a terminus? Is motion separate from real things? These questions asked by medieval philosophers tried to classify motion.\n\nWilliam Ockham gives a good concept of motion for many people in the Middle Ages. There is an issue with the vocabulary behind motion which makes people think that there is a correlation between nouns and the qualities that make nouns. Ockham states that this distinction is what will allow people to understand motion, that motion is a property of mobiles, locations, and forms and that is all that is required to define what motion is. A famous example of this is Occam's razor which simplifies vague statements by cutting them into more descriptive examples. \"Every motion derives from an agent.\" becomes \"each thing that is moved, is moved by an agent\" this makes motion a more personal quality referring to individual objects that are moved.\n\nAristotle held many important beliefs that started a convergence of thought for natural philosophy. Aristotle believed that attributes of objects belong to the objects themselves, and share traits with other objects that fit them into a category. He uses the example of dogs to press this point. An individual dog may have very specific attributes (ex. one dog can be black and another brown) but also very general ones that classify it as a dog (ex. four-legged). This philosophy can be applied to many other objects as well. This idea is different than that of Plato, with whom Aristotle had a direct association. Aristotle argued that objects have properties \"form\" and something that is not part of its properties \"matter\" that defines the object. The form cannot be separated from the matter. Given the example that you can not separate properties and matter since this is impossible, you cannot collect properties in a pile and matter in another.\n\nAristotle believed that change was a natural occurrence. He used his philosophy of form and matter to argue that when something changes you change its properties without changing its matter. This change occurs by replacing certain properties with other properties. Since this change is always an intentional alteration whether by forced means or by natural ones, change is a controllable order of qualities. He argues that this happens through three categories of being: non-being, potential being, and actual being. Through these three states the process of changing an object never truly destroys an objects forms during this transition state but rather just blurs the reality between the two states. An example of this could be changing an object from red to blue with a transitional purple phase.\n\nEarly Greek philosophers studied motion and the cosmos. Figures like Hesiod regarded the Natural world as offspring of the gods, whereas others like Leucippus and Democritus regarded the world as lifeless atoms in a vortex. Anaximander deduced that eclipses happen because of apertures in rings of celestial fire. Heraclitus believed that the heavenly bodies were made of fire that were contained within bowls. He thought that eclipses happen when the bowl turned away from the earth. Anaximenes is believed to have stated that an underlying element was air, and by manipulating air someone could change its thickness to create fire, water, dirt, and stones. Empedocles identified the elements that make up the world which he termed the roots of all things as Fire, Air. Earth, and Water. Parmenides argued that all change is a logical impossibility. He gives the example that nothing can go from nonexistence to existence. Plato argues that the world is an imperfect replica of an idea that a divine craftsman once held. He also believed that the only way to truly know something was through reason and logic not the study of the object itself, but that changeable matter is a viable course of study.\n\nThe scientific method has ancient precedents and Galileo exemplifies a mathematical understanding of nature which is the hallmark of modern natural scientists. Galileo proposed that objects falling regardless of their mass would fall at the same rate, as long as the medium they fall in is identical. The 19th-century distinction of a scientific enterprise apart from traditional natural philosophy has its roots in prior centuries. Proposals for a more \"inquisitive\" and practical approach to the study of nature are notable in Francis Bacon, whose ardent convictions did much to popularize his insightful Baconian method. The late 17th-century natural philosopher Robert Boyle wrote a seminal work on the distinction between physics and metaphysics called, \"A Free Enquiry into the Vulgarly Received Notion of Nature\", as well as \"The Skeptical Chymist\", after which the modern science of chemistry is named, (as distinct from proto-scientific studies of alchemy). These works of natural philosophy are representative of a departure from the medieval scholasticism taught in European universities, and anticipate in many ways, the developments which would lead to science as practiced in the modern sense. As Bacon would say, \"vexing nature\" to reveal \"her\" secrets, (scientific experimentation), rather than a mere reliance on largely historical, even anecdotal, observations of empirical phenomena, would come to be regarded as a defining characteristic of modern science, if not the very key to its success. Boyle's biographers, in their emphasis that he laid the foundations of modern chemistry, neglect how steadily he clung to the scholastic sciences in theory, practice and doctrine. However, he meticulously recorded observational detail on practical research, and subsequently advocated not only this practice, but its publication, both for successful and unsuccessful experiments, so as to validate individual claims by replication.\n\nNatural philosophers of the late 17th or early 18th century were sometimes insultingly described as 'projectors'. A projector was an entrepreneur who invited people to invest in his invention but - as the caricature went - could not be trusted, usually because his device was impractical. Jonathan Swift satirized natural philosophers of the Royal Society as 'the academy of projectors' in his novel \"Gulliver's Travels.\" Historians of science have argued that natural philosophers and the so-called projectors sometimes overlapped in their methods and aims.\n\nThe modern emphasis is less on a broad empiricism (one that includes passive observation of nature's activity), but on a narrow conception of the empirical concentrating on the \"control\" exercised through experimental (active) observation for the sake of \"control\" of nature. Nature is reduced to a passive recipient of human activity.\n\nIn the middle of the 20th century, Ernst Mayr's discussions on the teleology of nature brought up issues that were dealt with previously by Aristotle (regarding final cause) and Kant (regarding reflective judgment).\n\nEspecially since the mid-20th-century European crisis, some thinkers argued the importance of looking at nature from a broad philosophical perspective, rather than what they considered a narrowly positivist approach relying implicitly on a hidden, unexamined philosophy. One line of thought grows from the Aristotelian tradition, especially as developed by Thomas Aquinas. Another line springs from Edmund Husserl, especially as expressed in \"The Crisis of European Sciences\". Students of his such as Jacob Klein and Hans Jonas more fully developed his themes. Last, but not least, there is the process philosophy inspired by Alfred North Whitehead's works.\n\nAmong living scholars, Brian David Ellis, Nancy Cartwright, David Oderberg, and John Dupré are some of the more prominent thinkers who can arguably be classed as generally adopting a more open approach to the natural world. Ellis (2002) observes the rise of a \"New Essentialism.\" David Oderberg (2007) takes issue with other philosophers, including Ellis to a degree, who claim to be essentialists. He revives and defends the Thomistic-Aristotelian tradition from modern attempts to flatten nature to the limp subject of the experimental method. In his In Praise of Natural Philosophy: A Revolution for Thought and Life (2017), Nicholas Maxwell argues that we need to reform philosophy and put science and philosophy back together again to create a modern version of natural philosophy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3556371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3556371", "title": "Nicolas Notovitch", "text": "Nicolas Notovitch\n\nShulim or Nikolai Aleksandrovich Notovich () (August 13, 1858 – after 1916), known in the West as Nicolas Notovitch, was a Crimean Jewish adventurer who claimed to be a Russian aristocrat, spy and journalist.\n\nNotovitch is known for his 1894 book claiming that during the unknown years of Jesus, he left Galilee for India and studied with Buddhists and Hindus there before returning to Judea. Notovitch's claim was based on a document he said he had seen at the Hemis Monastery while he stayed there.\n\nThe consensus view amongst modern scholars is that Notovitch's account of the travels of Jesus to India was a hoax which presents major inconsistencies.\n\nNotovitch also wrote some political books on the role of Russia in war.\n\nNotovitch claimed that he broke his leg in India and while recovering from it at the Hemis monastery in Ladakh, he learned of the \"Life of Saint Issa, Best of the Sons of Men\" – \"Isa\" being the Arabic name of Jesus in Islam. Notovitch's story, with the text of the \"Life,\" was published in French in 1894 as \"La vie inconnue de Jesus Christ\". It was translated into English, German, Spanish, and Italian.\nNotovitch claimed that the chief lama at Hemis told him of the existence of the work, which was read to him, through an interpreter, the somewhat detached verses of the Tibetan version of the \"Life of Issa,\" which was said to have been translated from the Pali. Notovitch says that he himself afterward grouped the verses \"in accordance with the requirements of the narrative.\" As published by Notovitch, the work consists of 244 short paragraphs, arranged in fourteen chapters. The otherwise undocumented name \"Issa\" resembles the Arabic name Isa (عيسى), used in the Koran to refer to Jesus and the Sanskrit \"īśa\", the Lord.\n\nThe \"Life of Issa\" begins with an account of Israel in Egypt, its deliverance by Moses, its neglect of religion, and its conquest by the Romans. Then follows an account of the Incarnation. At the age of thirteen the divine youth, rather than take a wife, leaves his home to wander with a caravan of merchants to India (Sindh), to study the laws of the great Buddhas. Issa is welcomed by the Jains, but leaves them to spend time among the Buddhists, and spends six years among them, learning Pali and mastering their religious texts. Issa spent six years studying and teaching at Jaganath, Rajagriha, and other holy cities. At twenty-nine, Issa returns to his own country and begins to preach. He visits Jerusalem, where Pilate is apprehensive about him. The Jewish leaders, however, are also apprehensive about his teachings yet he continues his work for three years. He is finally arrested and put to death for blasphemy, for claiming to be the son of God. His followers are persecuted, but his disciples carry his message to the world.\n\nNotovitch's book generated controversy as soon as it was published. The philologist Max Müller expressed incredulity at the account presented and suggested that either Notovitch was the victim of a practical joke or he had fabricated the evidence. Müller wrote: \"Taking it for granted that M. Notovitch is a gentleman and not a liar, we cannot help thinking that the Buddhist monks of Ladakh and Tibet must be wags, who enjoy mystifying inquisitive travelers, and that M. Notovitch fell far too easy a victim to their jokes.\"\nMüller then wrote to the head lama at Hemis monastery to ask about the document and Notovitch's story. The head lama replied that there had been no western visitor at the monastery in the previous fifteen years, during which he had been the head lama there, and there were no documents related to Notovitch's story. Other European scholars also opposed Notovitch's account and one Indologist, Leopold von Schroeder, called Notovitch's story a \"big fat lie\".\n\nJ. Archibald Douglas, who was a professor of English and History at the Government College in Agra, then visited the Hemis monastery to interview the head lama, who stated yet again that Notovitch had never been there and that no such documents existed. Wilhelm Schneemelcher states that Notovich's accounts were soon exposed as fabrications, and that to date no one has even had a glimpse at the manuscripts Notovitch claims to have seen. Notovich at first responded to claims to defend himself. But once his story had been re-examined by historians, Notovitch is said to have confessed to having fabricated the evidence.\n\nBart D. Ehrman, a Bible scholar and historian, says that \"Today there is not a single recognized scholar on the planet who has any doubts about the matter. The entire story was invented by Notovitch, who earned a good deal of money and a substantial amount of notoriety for his hoax.\"\n\nHowever, others deny that Notovich ever accepted the accusations against him. Fida Hassnain, a Kashmiri writer, has stated: \"Notovitch responded publicly by announcing his existence, along with the names of people he met on his travels in Kashmir and Ladakh. . . . He also offered to return to Tibet in company of recognized orientalists to verify the authenticity of the verses contained in his compilation. In the French journal \"La Paix\", he affirmed his belief in the Orthodox Church, and advised his detractors to restrict themselves to the simple issue of the existence of the Buddhist scrolls at Hemis.\" Novotovich's wish to remain accepted by the Orthodox Church, for whatever unpublished reason, may fully explain his confession of fabrication. If so, it is his confession, not his 1894 book, that is false.\n\nAlthough he was not impressed with his story, Sir Francis Younghusband recalls his meeting with Nicolas Notovitch near Skardu, not long after Notovitch had left Hemis monastery.\n\nAlthough Notovitch had been discredited in Europe, Swami Abhedananda, a contemporary and colleague of Swami Vivekananda, visited the Hemis monastery in 1922 to verify the reports of Notovich that he had heard the previous year in the USA. The lamas at the monastery confirmed to him that Notovich was indeed brought to the monastery with a broken leg and he was nursed there for a month and a half. They also told him that the manuscript on Jesus Christ was shown to Notovich and contents interpreted so that he could translate them into Russian.\n\nThe original manuscript was said to be in Pali in the monastery of Marbour near Lhasa. The manuscript preserved at Hemis was in Tibetan. Swami Abhedananda himself was shown the manuscript, which had 14 chapters containing 223 couplets (slokas). The Swami got some portions of the manuscript translated with the help of a lama, about 40 verses appearing in the Swami's travelogue.\n\nThe lamas told Swami that Jesus Christ came secretly to Kashmir after his resurrection and lived in a monastery surrounded by many disciples. The original manuscript in Pali was prepared \"three or four years\" after Christ's death, on the basis of reports by local Tibetans and the accounts from wandering merchants regarding his crucifixion.\n\nAfter his return to Bengal, the Swami asked his assistant Bhairab Chaitanya to prepare a manuscript of the travelogue based on the notes he had taken. The manuscript was published serially in \"Visvavani\", a monthly publication of the Ramakrishna Vedanta Samiti, in 1927 and subsequently published in a book form in Bengali. The fifth edition of the book in English was published in 1987, which also contains as an Appendix, an English translation of Notovich's \"Life of Saint Issa\" translated from French.\n\nHowever, after Abhedananda's death, one of his disciples admitted that when he went to the monastery to ask about the documents he was told that they had disappeared, the monastery wishing to dissociate itself from any controversy.\n\nParamahansa Yogananda wrote that Nicholas Roerich also corroborated Novotovich's and Abhedananda's story during his visit to Tibet in the mid-1920s. He also wrote that \"records of Jesus's years in India were preserved in Puri, according to Sri Shankaracharya Bharati Krishna Tirtha, and that after leaving Puri Jesus spent \"six years with the Sakya Buddhist sect in... Nepal and Tibet\", before returning via Tibet to Palestine. He added that \"the overall value of these records is inestimable in a search for the historical Jesus\". \n\nAuthor Alice Dunbar-Nelson includes a review of \"The Unknown Life of Jesus Christ\" in her 1895 collection \"Violets and Other Tales\".\n\nIn 1899 Mirza Ghulam Ahmad wrote \"Jesus in India\" (published in 1908) and claimed that Jesus had traveled to India after surviving crucifixion, but specifically disagreed with Notovitch that Jesus had gone to India before crucifixion.\n\nOther authors have taken these themes and incorporated it into their own works. For example, in her book \"The Lost Years of Jesus: Documentary Evidence of Jesus' 17-Year Journey to the East\", Elizabeth Clare Prophet asserts that Buddhist manuscripts provide evidence that Jesus traveled to India, Nepal, Ladakh and Tibet. In his book \"Jesus Lived in India\", German author Holger Kersten promoted the ideas of Nicolas Notovich and Mirza Ghulam Ahmad. Gerald O'Collins classified Kersten's work as the repackaging of the same stories. In his 2002 comedic novel \"\", absurdist author Christopher Moore parodies the notion that between the ages of 15 and 30, Jesus traveled to Tibet to study Buddhism in a monastery (after first having traveled to Afghanistan), then to India to study Hinduism.\n\nIn 1906 Notovitch published a book in Russian and French, pleading for Russia's entry into the Triple Entente with France and England. It is entitled in French: \"La Russie et l'alliance anglaise: étude historique et politique\". He also wrote biographies of Tsar Nicolas II and Alexander III. He had also written \"L'Europe à la veille de la guerre\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1162110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1162110", "title": "Old town", "text": "Old town\n\nIn a city or town, the old town is its historic or original core. Although the city is usually larger in its present form, many cities have redesignated this part of the city to commemorate its origins after thorough renovations. There are many places throughout the world referred to as the \"old town\" (and this is sometimes construed as a proper noun and capitalized). This is a list of some famous old towns:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPhilippines as the former colony of Spain has numerous heritage structures, most notably in:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe equivalent of \"Old Town\" in French is \"vieille ville\", although the more formal \"centre historique\" (\"historical center\") is usually written on road signs.\n\nUNESCO World Heritage old towns in France:\n\nOther notable/famous old towns include:\n\n\n\nOther notable/famous old towns include:\n\n\n\n\nI Borghi più belli d'Italia is an association of small Italian towns of historical interest.\n\nOther notable old towns include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOther notable/famous old towns include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5463983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5463983", "title": "Ordinal date", "text": "Ordinal date\n\nAn ordinal date is a calendar date typically consisting of a \"year\" and a \"day of year\" ranging between 1 and 366 (starting on January 1), though year may sometimes be omitted. The two numbers can be formatted as YYYY-DDD to comply with the ISO 8601 ordinal date format.\n\nComputation of the ordinal date within a year is part of calculating the ordinal date throughout the years from a reference date, such as the Julian date. It is also part of calculating the day of the week, though for this purpose modulo-7 simplifications can be made.\n\nFor these purposes it is convenient to count January and February as month 13 and 14 of the previous year, for two reasons: the shortness of February and its variable length. In that case the date counted from 1 March is given by\nwhich can also be written\nwith \"m\" the month number and \"d\" the date.\n\nThe formula reflects the fact that any five consecutive months in the range March–January have a total length of 153 days, due to a fixed pattern 31–30–31–30–31 repeating itself twice.\n\n\"Doomsday\" properties:\n\nFor \"m\" = 2\"n\" and \"d\"=\"m\" we get\ngiving consecutive differences of 63 (9 weeks) for \"n\" = 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6, i.e., between 4/4, 6/6, 8/8, 10/10, and 12/12.\n\nFor \"m\" = 2\"n\" + 1 and \"d\"=\"m\" + 4 we get\nand with \"m\" and \"d\" interchanged\n\ngiving a difference of 119 (17 weeks) for \"n\" = 2 (difference between 5/9 and 9/5), and also for \"n\" = 3 (difference between 7/11 and 11/7).\n\nThe ordinal date from 1 January is:\n\nor equivalently, the ordinal date from 1 March of the previous year (for which the formula above can be used) minus 306.\n\nAgain counting January and February as month 13 and 14 of the previous year, the date counted from 1 March is modulo 7 equal to\nwith \"m\" the month number and \"d\" the date.\n\nCalculation can be done starting with January 1 mathematically without if statements if we take advantage of min and max algebraic logic<br>\nMAX is 1/2*(a+b+|a-b|)<br>\nMIN is 1/2*(a+b-|a-b|)<br>\n<br>\nprovided the month(m) day(d) and year(y)<br>\n(MAX(0,MIN(1,m-1))*31)+ //if Jan is a full month<br>\n(MAX(0,MIN(1,m-2))*28)+ //if Feb is a full month<br>\n(MAX(0,MIN(1,m-3))*31)+ //if Mar is a full month<br>\n(MAX(0,MIN(1,m-4))*30)+ //if Apr is a full month<br>\n(MAX(0,MIN(1,m-5))*31)+ //if May is a full month<br>\n(MAX(0,MIN(1,m-6))*30)+ //if June is a full month<br>\n(MAX(0,MIN(1,m-7))*31)+ //if July is a full month<br>\n(MAX(0,MIN(1,m-8))*31)+ //if Aug is a full month<br>\n(MAX(0,MIN(1,m-9))*30)+ //if Sept is a full month<br>\n(MAX(0,MIN(1,m-10))*31)+ //if Oct is a full month<br>\n(MAX(0,MIN(1,m-11))*30)+ //if Nov is a full month<br>\nd+ //days of current month<br>\n(((INT((y)/4)-INT((y)/100)+INT((y)/400)) //leap year logic<br>\n-(INT((y-1)/4)-INT((y-1)/100)+INT((y-1)/400)))*MAX(0,MIN(1,m-2))) //only count a leap year if date is >=3rd month //leap year logic\n\nexample of Aug 24th 2016 is\n31+28+31+30+31+30+31+0+0+0+0+24+1\n\nFor example, the ordinal date of April 15 is 90 + 15 = 105 in a common year, and 91 + 15 = 106 in a leap year.\n\nThe number of the month and date is given by\nthe term mod (\"od\", 30) can also be replaced by \"od\" - 30 (\"m\" - 1) with \"od\" the ordinal date.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34830109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34830109", "title": "Pax Romana (reenactment)", "text": "Pax Romana (reenactment)\n\nPax Romana is a Classical reenactment society based in the Netherlands, with the main goal to show Romans in the Netherlands as they would have lived in the last quarter of the first century AD.\n\nThe group was set up in 2007 by a group of Ancient Rome enthusiasts, including archaeologists and a Latinist. The group is member of the Landelijk Platform voor Levende Geschiedenis.\n\nPax Romana works as a living history and re-enactment group. The goal is primarily education and is put into practice through the medium of displays (military encampments and civilian cooking and crafts), school visits and film and TV projects in the form of advice, equipment and cast.\n\nAs their members come from all over the Netherlands, the society has no primary base. There are currently (2015) around twenty members, of which about fifteen in Roman military life. The military members are encouraged to create a fictional character to portray at events. In order to provide the greatest degree of authenticity the group uses accurate reproductions of equipment, and strives to copy authentic haircuts, mannerisms and so on through research and under advice from archaeologists and historians. \nWhile the men mainly portray the military life, women and children form the Batavian and Roman civilians.\n\nPax Romana has the capability to reconstruct multiple branches of the Roman military and Batavian civilians.\nThe Cohors XV is the main military unit.\n\nThe 15th cohort of Roman volunteers is one of the most well-known Roman units of the Netherlands in Roman times. This unit consisted of old legionnaires and veterans and was called Voluntariorum (Volunteers).\nStamps and inscriptions of the unit have been found at the castella Leiden-Roomburg (Matilo) en Woerden (Laurium). As far as known today the 15th cohort was in both fortresses between 70 and 240-250 AD. Stamps were also found in Alphen aan den Rijn (\"Albaniana\"), Utrecht, Vechten (\"Fectio\") and Cologne (\"Colonia Agrippina\"). These were probably build by the material the soldiers of the 15th cohort fabricated.\n\nThe civilians are formed by Batavians and Romans.\nThe \"Batavi\" were an ancient Germanic tribe, originally part of the Chatti, that lived around the Rhine delta, in the area that is currently the Netherlands, from the second half of the first century BC to the third century AD.\nThe Roman civilians distinguish themselves by the use of more 'Romanised' clothing, jewelry and haircuts.\n\nPax Romana has multiple projects portraying different types of Roman military units.\n\nThe \"Classis Germanica\" was established in 12 BC by Drusus at Castra Vetera. It controlled the Rhine river, and was mainly a fluvial fleet, although it also operated in the North Sea. It is noteworthy that the Romans' initial lack of experience with the tides of the ocean left Drusus' fleet stranded on the Zuyder Zee. After ca. 30 AD, the fleet moved its main base to the \"castrum\" of Alteburg, some 4 km south of \"Colonia Agrippinensis\" (modern Cologne). Later granted the honorifics \"Augusta Pia Fidelis Domitiana\" following the suppression of the Revolt of Saturninus.\nThe \"classis Germanica\" rendered outstanding services in multitudinous landing operations. In 46, a naval expedition made a push deep into the Black Sea region and even travelled on the Tanais. In 47 a revolt by the Chauci, who took to piratical activities along the Gallic coast, was subdued by Gnaeus Domitius Corbulo. By 57 an expeditionary corps reached Chersonesos (see Charax, Crimea).\n\nGladiatorial combats are well known as public entertainment in ancient Roman times.\nPax Romana currently has a retiarius, secutor, Thraex, hoplomachus and murmillo.\n\nThe \"Cohortes Urbanae\" served as a police force in Rome and several other major Roman cities.\n"}
{"id": "34518083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34518083", "title": "Petre Guran", "text": "Petre Guran\n\nRadu Petre Guran (born March 5, 1972) is a Romanian historian, member of the World Academy of Art and Science. In 2003, he got a Ph.D from the School for Advanced Studies in the Social Sciences. He has been the first director of the Romanian Cultural Institute \"Mihai Eminescu\" in Chişinău since September 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "225957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225957", "title": "Robert Ferguson (minister)", "text": "Robert Ferguson (minister)\n\nRobert Ferguson (c. 1637–1714) was a Scottish presbyterian minister, conspirator and political pamphleteer, known as \"the Plotter\".\n\nHe was the eldest son of William Ferguson (d. 1699) of Badifurrow, Aberdeenshire, Scotland and Janet Black. His father disinherited him so the lands of Badifurrow passed to Ferguson's younger brother William, who pre-deceased William senior, so the lands were inherited by James Ferguson who immediately sold the estate and purchased Pitfour.\nAnother younger brother was Major General James Ferguson.\n\nAfter receiving a good education, probably at the University of Aberdeen, became a Presbyterian (Church of Scotland) minister.\n\nAccording to Bishop Burnet he was cast out by the Presbyterians, but whether this be so or not, he soon made his way to England and became vicar of Godmersham, Kent, from which living he was expelled by the Act of Uniformity 1662.\n\nSome years later, having gained a reputation as a theological controversialist and become a person of importance among the Nonconformists, he attracted the notice of Anthony Ashley-Cooper, 1st Earl of Shaftesbury and the party which favoured the exclusion of the Duke of York from the throne, and he began to write political pamphlets just at the time when the feeling against the Roman Catholics was at its height. In 1680 he wrote \"A Letter to a Person of Honour concerning the 'Black Box,'\" in which he supported the claim of the Duke of Monmouth to the crown against that of the Duke of York [there was said to be a black box that contained a marriage contract between Charles II and Lucy Walter]. Returning to the subject after Charles II had solemnly denied the existence of a marriage between himself and Lucy Walter.\n\nHe took an active part in the controversy over the Exclusion Bill, and claimed to be the author of the whole of the pamphlet \"No Protestant Plot\" (1681), parts of which are usually ascribed to Shaftesbury. Ferguson was deeply implicated in the Rye House Plot, although he asserted that he had frustrated both this and a subsequent attempt to assassinate the king, and he fled to the Netherlands with Shaftesbury in 1682, returning to England early in 1683.\n\nFor his share in another plot against Charles II he was declared an outlaw, after which he entered into communication with Archibald Campbell, 9th Earl of Argyll, Monmouth and other malcontents. Ferguson then took a leading part in organizing the rising of 1685. Having overcome Monmouth's reluctance to take part in this movement, he accompanied the duke to the west of England and drew up the manifesto against James II, escaping to the Netherlands after the Battle of Sedgemoor. He landed in England with William III of Orange in 1688, and aided William's cause with his pen, but William and his advisers did not regard him as a person of importance, although his services were rewarded with a sinecure appointment in the Excise.\n\nChagrined at this treatment, Ferguson was soon in correspondence with the exiled Jacobites. He shared in all the plots against the life of William, and after his removal from the Excise in 1692 wrote violent pamphlets against the government. Although he was several times arrested on suspicion, he was never brought to trial. He died in great poverty, leaving behind him a great and deserved reputation for treachery.\n\nIt has been thought by Macaulay and others that Ferguson led the English government to believe that he was a spy in their interests, and that his frequent escapes from justice were due to official connivance. In a proclamation issued for his arrest in 1683 he is described as \"a tall lean man, dark brown hair, a great Roman nose, thin-jawed, heat in his face, speaks in the Scottish accent, a sharp piercing eye, stoops a little in the shoulders.\"\n\nBesides numerous pamphlets, Ferguson wrote: \"History of the Revolution\" (1706); \"Qualifications requisite in a Minister of State\" (1710); and part of the \"History of all the Mobs, Tumults and Insurrections in Great Britain\" (London, 1715).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28537952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28537952", "title": "Théodore Juste", "text": "Théodore Juste\n\nThéodore Juste (11 January 1818 in Brussels – 10 August 1888 in Saint-Gilles) was a Belgian historian and literary scholar. He became curator of the Musée royal d'antiquités, d'armures et d'artillerie in 1859.\n\n"}
{"id": "15754847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15754847", "title": "Timeline of Zen Buddhism in the United States", "text": "Timeline of Zen Buddhism in the United States\n\nBelow is a timeline of important events regarding Zen Buddhism in the United States. Dates with \"?\" are approximate.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8967375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8967375", "title": "Tsuyoshi Hasegawa", "text": "Tsuyoshi Hasegawa\n\nHasegawa was born in Tokyo and received his undergraduate education at Tokyo University. He studied international relations and Soviet history at University of Washington, where he earned his doctoral degree in 1969. He became a naturalized American citizen in 1976. Among his awards and fellowships are Fulbright-Hays Research Abroad (1976–77), NEH grant (2002–03), SSRC grant (2002–03), Rockefeller Belagio Center Fellowship (2011) and a Fulbright Fellowship (2012).\n\nHe is known for \"Racing the Enemy: Stalin, Truman, and the Surrender of Japan \" (2005), a revisionist study of diplomacy and the end of the Pacific War. The book won the 2005 Robert Ferrell Award from the Society for Historians of American Foreign Relations. (SHAFR). Hasegawa's research also includes the political and social history of the Russian Revolution of 1917 and Soviet–Japanese relations.\n\nHis scholarship is divided into three fields.\n\nThe first is on the Russian Revolution. He published, \"The February Revolution: Petrograd 1917\" in 1980. Hasegawa later returned to the February Revolution. He revised and updated the original book, reevaluating the role of the liberals as active participants in the revolution. This revised and expanded edition, \"The February Revolution, Petrograd, 1917: The End of the Tsarist Regime and the Birth of Dual Power\", was published in 2017.\n\nHe has embarked on new research on a social history of the Russian Revolution, focusing on crime, police, and mob justice. He published, \"Crime and Punishment in the Russian Revolution: Mob Justice and Police in Petrograd\", in 2017.\n\nRecent Russo-Japanese relations are the second area where Hasegawa has done research. This research resulted in the publication \"The Northern Territories Dispute and Russo-Japanese Relations\" in 1998. In these volumes Hasegawa examines the tortuous relations between Russia and Japan over the territorial dispute over what the Japanese call the \"Northern Territories\" and what the Russian call \"the southern Kuril islands.\"\n\nThe third area of research Hasegawa has conducted is an international history involving the Soviet Union, the United States, and Japan in ending the Pacific War. As the United States dropped its atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August 1945, 1.6 million Soviet troops launched a surprise attack on the Japanese forces occupying eastern Asia. Hasegawa published a book, \"Racing the Enemy: Stalin, Truman, and the Surrender of Japan\" (2005). Challenging the widely accepted orthodox view that the atomic bombings on Hiroshima and Nagasaki were the most decisive factor in Japan's decision to surrender, ending World War II in the Pacific Hasegawa puts forward the view that the Soviet entry into the war by breaking of the Neutrality Pact played a more important role than the atomic bombs in Japan's surrender decision. This view is in contrast to earlier critics of the bombing, such as Gar Alperovitz, who argued that US President Harry S. Truman's underlying objective was showcasing US military might, as a deterrent to Soviet leader Joseph Stalin's ambitions. According to Australian historian Geoffrey Jukes: \"[Hasegawa] demonstrates conclusively that it was the Soviet declaration of war, not the atomic bombs, that forced the Japanese to surrender unconditionally.\" This view received criticism. The most balanced and spirited discussion on this book is given in H-Diplo roundtable discussion with Gar Alperovitz, Michael Gordin, David Holloway, Richard Frank, and Baron Bernstein. James Maddox, Professor of History Emeritus at The Pennsylvania State University, and author of \"Weapons for Victory: The Hiroshima Decision Fifty Years Later\", was one of the most trenchant critics of the book.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25933299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25933299", "title": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 449", "text": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 449\n\nUnited Nations Security Council Resolution 449, adopted on 30 May 1979, considered a report by the Secretary-General regarding the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force. The Council noted its efforts to establish a durable and just peace in the Middle East but also expressed its concern over the prevailing state of tension in the area.\n\nThe Resolution decided to call upon the parties concerned to immediately implement Resolution 338 (1973), it renewed the mandate of the Observer Force for another 6 months until 30 November 1979 and requested that the Secretary-General submit a report on the situation at the end of that period.\n\nThe resolution was adopted with 14 votes to none; China did not participate in the voting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13992090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13992090", "title": "William D. Irvine", "text": "William D. Irvine\n\nWilliam D. Irvine is a Canadian writer, historian and academic, currently Professor Emeritus of History at York University. He specializes in French history and has published a book on the Human Rights League of France (\"Ligue des droits de l'homme\"). He received his B.A. degree in 1966 from the University of British Columbia and Ph.D. from Princeton University. As an author, he has largely been collected by libraries.\n\n"}
{"id": "4877807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4877807", "title": "Working: People Talk About What They Do All Day and How They Feel About What They Do", "text": "Working: People Talk About What They Do All Day and How They Feel About What They Do\n\nWorking: People Talk About What They Do All Day and How They Feel About What They Do is a 1974 nonfiction book by the noted oral historian and radio broadcaster Studs Terkel.\n\n\"Working\" is a book which investigates the meaning of work for different people under different circumstances, showing it can vary in importance. The book also reflects Terkel's general idea that work can be difficult but still provides meaning for workers. It is an exploration of what makes work meaningful for people in all walks of life, from Lovin' Al the parking valet, Dolores the waitress, the fireman, to the business executive. The narrative moves through mundane details, emotional truths, and existential questioning.\n\nFollowing a preface, a foreword, and an introduction, the volume is divided into nine \"books,\" each of which contains one or more subsections that provide several accounts of working people's jobs and lives. These books tie their diverse content together with themes. These themes take the form of subtitles. Some books have only one theme (the theme of Book One is \"Working the Land\"); others have several.\n\nBook One contains stories by three newspaper delivery boys, a farmer, a farm worker, a farm woman, a deep miner and his wife, a strip miner, and a heavy equipment operator. Here is a sample:\n\nBook Two features narratives from a receptionist, a hotel switchboard operator, a telephone operator, a professor of communications, an airline stewardess, an airline reservationist, a model, an executive secretary, a hooker, a writer/producer, a copy chief, two actors, a press agent, an installment dealer, and a telephone solicitor. Here is a sample:\n\nBook Three has stories by a sanitation truck driver, a garbage man, a washroom attendant, a factory mechanic, a domestic worker, a janitor, a doorman, two policemen, an industrial investigator, a photographer, and a film critic. Here is a sample:\n\nBook Four tells the stories of two spot-welders, a utility man, a stock chaser, a plant manager, a general foreman, a local union president, two cabdrivers, a bus driver, an interstate truckdriver, a car hiker, and a car salesman. Here is a sample:\n\nBook Five narrates the tales of a barber, a hair stylist, a saleswoman, a dentist, a hotel clerk, a bar pianist, an elevator starter, an ex-salesman, a bank teller, an auditor, an organizer, an order filler in a shoe factory, a mail carrier, a gas meter reader, a supermarket box boy, a supermarket checker, a skycap, a felter in a luggage factory, a waitress, and two housewives. Here is a sample:\n\nBook Six contains the stories of a bookbinder, a pharmacist, a piano tuner, a realty broker, a yacht broker, two stockbrokers, a project coordinator, a government relations coordinator, a process clerk, and an organizer. Here is a sample:\n\nBook Seven's narratives involve those of a jockey, a baseball player, a sports press agent, a tennis player, a hockey player, a football coach, a radio executive, a factory owner, a bank audit department head, an ex-boss, the ex-boss' daughter, an ex-president of a conglomerate/consultant, \"Ma and Pa Courage,\" and three retirees. Here is a sample:\n\nBook Eight's stories are about a copy boy, a publisher, a proofreader, a department store manager, a jazz musician, an executive, the director of a bakery cooperative, a hospital aide, a baby nurse, a public school teacher, an alternative school teacher, an occupational therapist, a patient's representative, a practical nurse in an old people's home, a memorial counselor, and a grave digger. Here is a sample:\n\nBook Nine recounts the narratives of a tree nursery attendant, a carpenter/poet, an editor, an industrial designer, a nun to naprapath, an ex-salesman/ farmer, a lawyer, a librarian, a stone cutter, a service station owner, the service station's son and partner, a steelworker, the steelworker's son (a priest), an adult education teacher, a freight elevator operator, a policeman, and a fireman. Here is a sample:\n\nAmong the many who speak their minds about their work and their lives are baseball player Steve Hamilton (\"To be perfectly honest with you, I'm ready to quit\"), actor Rip Torn (\"I don't have any contempt for people who do commercials\") and football coach George Allen (\"You have to put a priority on everything you do each day\").\n\nAs the foreword to the book points out, \"Mr. Terkel found, work was a search, sometimes successful, sometimes not, 'for daily meaning as well as daily bread'... The oral histories in \"Working\" are wistful dispatches from a distant era...when management practices and computers were just beginning to transform the American workplace. In the last thirty years, productivity has soared but job satisfaction has plummeted. It is hard to read \"Working\" without wondering what has gone wrong.\"\n\nA bestseller when first published in 1974, the book also inspired the Broadway musical of the same title, and a similar book edited thirty years later by a team (mainly John Bowe, Marisa Bowe and Sabin Streeter), \"\". In May 2009 Harvey Pekar's graphic novel adaptation was released.\n\nIn July 2009, The Second City ETC opened their 33rd revue, \"Studs Terkel's Not Working\", honoring the writer in the year following his death. The revue, like Terkel's book, focused on the lives of ordinary people.\n\nSinger/songwriter James Taylor wrote a song called \"Millworker\" which was released on his 1979 album \"Flag\". On his 2002 DVD \"Pull Over\", Taylor explains that a story about a woman in a shoe manufacturing plant in Massachusetts, described in the book, inspired the song.\n\nIn the television series \"The Facts of Life\", \"Working\" is one of the books parents wanted to ban in the episode \"Read No Evil\".\n\n"}
{"id": "5438127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5438127", "title": "Yossi Melman", "text": "Yossi Melman\n\nYossi Melman (Hebrew: יוסי מלמן, born December 27, 1950) is an Israeli writer and journalist. He was an intelligence and strategic affairs correspondent for the \"Haaretz\" newspaper, and in 2013 he joined \"The Jerusalem Post\" and its Hebrew sister paper \"Maariv\" in a similar, more analytical role covering also military issues.\n\nYosef (Yossi) Melman was born in Poland. The family immigrated to Israel in 1957, when he was six years old. He graduated from Hebrew University of Jerusalem and was a Nieman Fellow at Harvard University. From 1969 he served for three years with \"Shaked\", a reconnaissance and Special Forces unit in the Israel Defense Forces.\n\nSince 1974, Melman has worked in various capacities in the Israeli media. He has worked for 27 years in the Israeli Haaretz daily as a senior correspondent on national security, intelligence and strategic issues. Melman was involved in several legal and public battles to lift gag orders issued by Israeli courts and censors.\n\nHe wrote ten non-fiction books on Israeli Intelligence Community, security, terrorism and nuclear issues which were published in more than 40 countries in 15 languages. One of his books, \"Every Spy a Prince\", co-authored with former CBS News reporter Dan Raviv, was a New York Times best-seller for 12 weeks. He also wrote a play in Hebrew, \"The Good Son\", staged by the Tel Aviv Cameri Theater in 2006.\n\nIn 2016 he was a consultant and protagonist in Alex Gibney's documentary \"Zero Days\" which won the Peabody Award.\n\nIn 2017 he created with director Duki Dror a 4 part TV documentary called \"The Mossad Cover Story\". \nThe series got good reviews by the Israeli media.\n\nMelman is an avid runner and triathlete who ran 35 marathons in Europe and the US, six ultramarathons of 50 to 75 km and four Ironman Triathlons. He is the initiator and founder of \"Israman\" (Israel's Ironman). In 2009, eighty days after suffering a heart attack, he returned to run a full marathon. One of his books in Hebrew is called \"Autobiography of Running\". In December 2016 he ran 66 km to mark his 66th birthday.\n\nIn 1976, Melman married Billie Rozensweig, a Tel Aviv-born Israeli historian.They have two children: Yotam and Daria.\n\nMelman has stated that he considers himself a left-wing Israeli, and that Israel must abandon the occupied territories to live in peace with a Palestinian state. However, he has also said that the Palestinians should not be given the right of return, as that would defeat the idea of a two-state solution in Israeli minds.\n\nWhile supporting the peace process with the Palestinians, Melman believes that Israel must retain its strong military capabilities, including its nuclear deterrence.\n\nMelman was described by WikiLeaks in February 2012 as an \"information mule\" who had \"channeled tips to the Mossad\", assertions that were contested by Melman in his review of his relationship with Julian Assange, whom he believes has made anti-Semitic statements.\n\nYossi Melman was twice (in 1994 and in 2017, together with Dan Raviv) the recipient of the Simon Rockower Award for Excellence in Jewish Journalism and of the 1995 Boris Smolar Award of Excellence in International News or Feature Reporting, on behalf of the American Jewish Press Association.\n\nIn 2003 together with a few other members of the ICIJ investigative team he has received a special award for their coverage \"Making a Killing: The Business of War\", a project of 11 feature articles on worldwide arms dealers, oil and diamond merchants in Third World countries.\n\nIn 2004 survey among \"Haaretz\" readers, Melman was selected as the Most Outstanding and Interesting Writer.\n\nIn 2007 participated together with ICIJ reporters Michael Bilton, Prangtip Daorueng, Ignacio Gomez, Andreas Harsono, Alain Lallemand, Mutegi Njau, Paul Radu, Gerardo Reyes and Leo Sisti in an investigatory project Collateral Damage: Human Rights and Military Aid After 9/11. The project was nominated for the Online News Association Awards.\n\nIn 2008, Melman won an award from the Investigative Reporters and Editors Association (IRE) for his report on a Jordanian Palestinian held illegally by American, Israeli and Jordanian security services.\n\nIn 2009 he received the Sokolov Award, Israel's foremost award for journalism, on account of his investigative work and breaking news about the Israeli security establishment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14420376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14420376", "title": "Éric Brian", "text": "Éric Brian\n\nÉric Brian is an historian of science and a sociologist. He is studying uncertainty and regularity of social phenomena, and in particular how scientists have caught and conceived them as objects of mathematics or social and economical sciences.\n\nHe is currently senior professor at EHESS (École des hautes études en sciences sociales, Paris, France) and affiliated to INED (Institut national d'études démographiques, Paris, France). Since 1995, he is the editor of the \"Revue de synthèse\" today published at Springer Verlag (Paris). Since 1997, he teaches too at the University of Vienna (Austria).\n\n\n"}
