{"id": "32804040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32804040", "title": "Agency Seal Medal", "text": "Agency Seal Medal\n\nThe Agency Seal Medal (formerly Medallion) is awarded by the Central Intelligence Agency to non-Agency personnel, including U.S. Government employees and private citizens, who have made significant contributions to the Agency’s intelligence efforts.\n\nSince recipients of this award are not all made public, it is not possible to verify with certainty whether a person has, or has not, received this award. The following individuals list the Agency Seal Medal (or Medallion) in their public biographies and have verifiable backgrounds consistent with that claim.\n\nYear of award unknown (listed alphabetically):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39338078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39338078", "title": "Alice Dreger", "text": "Alice Dreger\n\nAlice Domurat Dreger () is a historian, bioethicist, author, and former professor of clinical medical humanities and bioethics at the Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University in Chicago, Illinois.\n\nDreger engages in academic work and activism in support of individuals born with atypical sex characteristics (intersex or disorders of sex development) and individuals born as conjoined twins. She challenges the perception that those with physical differences are somehow \"broken\" and need to be \"fixed\". She has opposed the use of \"corrective\" surgery on babies whose genitalia are considered \"ambiguous\". She has criticized the failure to follow such patients in later life, and reported longer-term medical and psychological difficulties experienced by some of the people whose sex is arbitrarily assigned.\n\nShe supported J. Michael Bailey in the face of controversy over his book \"The Man Who Would Be Queen\" (2003). In an article in 2008 and in her 2015 book \"Galileo's Middle Finger\", Dreger argued that the controversy had gone far beyond addressing the scientific theories presented in Bailey's book to become an attack upon the author, creating an out-of-control spiral of identity politics.\n\nDreger has been a featured speaker at TED Talks.\n\nDreger received her Ph.D. in History and Philosophy of Science from Indiana University Bloomington in 1995.\n\nDreger has taught at both Michigan State University, where she received a Teacher-Scholar Award in 2000, and at Northwestern University (2005-2015).\n\nDuring her doctoral work, Dreger became interested in \"how and why it is that scientists and medical doctors work to mediate the relationships between our bodies and our selves\" and \"why it is we often look to scientists and medical doctors to read or even alter our bodies.\" In 1995 she published a paper in \"Victorian Studies\" examining 19th-century British medical attitudes towards intersex people. In 1998 she published \"Hermaphrodites and the Medical Invention of Sex\" and in 1999, \"Intersex in the age of ethics\". Increasingly, she became engaged in intersex activism as well as scholarship, advocating that doctors accept a wide variety of genital structure rather than \"correcting\" babies' genitalia to conform to artificially gendered standards. More recently, she has criticized the prenatal use of dexamethasone to normalize female genitalia in cases of congenital adrenal hyperplasia, and tried to charge that its safety has not been sufficiently tested by pediatrician Maria New. However, the FDA found nothing worth pursuing on this topic.\n\nIn 2004, Dreger published \"One of us: conjoined twins and the future of normal\", an examination of Conjoined twinning and of surgical practice. Described as \"a book filled with warmth, humour and unexpected insights\", it raises similar issues to her earlier work on intersex people: questioning the ways in which the surgical profession defines \"acceptable limits of the normal\" and enforces conformity to such norms. She criticizes the lack of long-range follow-up studies of separated children. Dreger also introduces more than twenty sets of conjoined twins, most of whom have adapted happily to the challenges of their situations. One reviewer states that Dreyer's intent is to show us the humanity of people whose anatomies differ from ours.\n\nIn \"The Man Who Would Be Queen\" (2003) J. Michael Bailey promoted a hotly disputed theory of transsexualism by Ray Blanchard that characterized male-to-female transsexuals into two groups in a way that was seen by many as deeply offensive. In 2008, Dreger published an article in \"Archives of Sexual Behavior\", describing in detail the opposition to Bailey and his work. A major concern for her was the ways in which attacks targeted him as a person and a scholar, rather than addressing his ideas. Dreger asserted that a theory, even if found threatening or offensive, should be judged by its supporting evidence. She also argued against reduction of the controversy to a simple dualism, seeing the ideas and actions of all those involved as \"significantly more complicated\". As result of the paper, Dreger herself was perceived as attacking trans people, and drawn into an ongoing controversy.\n\nIn 2009, Dreger received a Guggenheim fellowship to study conflicts between activists and scientists. She has examined a number of conflicts including the controversial career of Napoleon Chagnon. Dreger accepts that scientists, being human, have biases and ideologies. But, she argues, they must \"put the truth first and the quest for social justice second\" and try to \"adhere to an intellectual agenda that [isn't] first and only political\".\n\nIn 2015, Dreger published \"Galileo's Middle Finger\", which covered her observations and experiences with controversies in academic medicine, especially those surrounding human sexuality. They include her work with intersex people, the career of Napoleon Chagnon, Dreger's criticisms of Maria New, and her defense of J. Michael Bailey and its consequences. \n\"The New York Times\" described Dreger's \"smart, delightful book\" as \"many things: a rant, a manifesto, a treasury of evocative new terms (sissyphobia, autogynephilia, phall-o-meter) and an account of the author's transformation\" from activist to anti-activist and back again. The book also received positive reviews from the \"Chicago Tribune\", \"Chronicle of Higher Education\", \"Salon,\" and activist and author Dan Savage.\n\nHowever, \"Galileo's Middle Finger\" also reignited controversy over her defense of Bailey and her discussion of transgender issues. Her book was removed from consideration for a Lambda Literary Award after complaints. One critic accused Dreger of promoting the idea that trans women are \"just self-hating homosexual men who believe they could have guilt-free sex if they were female and heterosexual men with an out-of-control fetish (autogynephilia)\". Dreger protested the removal in an open letter to Lambda Literary Foundation. Dreger herself has since reiterated her articulation of ideas in \"Galileo's Middle Finger\" that relate to trans women, stating that she considers both gender and sexuality to be relevant and valid concerns for people, and therefore finds value in Blanchard's dual categorization if not his terminology.\n\nDreger resigned from Northwestern University in August, 2015, citing censorship issues. The school had ordered her and other editors of \"Atrium\", a bioethics journal, to take down an article about consensual oral sex between a nurse and patient. Although the article was eventually reposted, the university established its own editorial committee to approve future issues of the journal.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1593922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1593922", "title": "American Palestine Public Affairs Forum", "text": "American Palestine Public Affairs Forum\n\nThe American Palestine Public Affairs Forum (APPAF) is a non-profit 501(c)(3) organization that attempts to promote the interests of Palestinians in the United States. The organization promotes non-violence, democracy in the Middle East, and a two-state solution to the Israeli–Palestinian conflict. APPAF strives to improve relations between Palestinian and non-Palestinian peoples in America, and mobilize public support for their goals.\n\nAccording to their website the organization hopes to pressure U.S. political leaders to enforce UN Security Council Resolutions relating to the establishment of an independent Palestinian State in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.\n\nThe chair of the APPAF is Dr. Zahi H. Masri.\n\n"}
{"id": "10025826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10025826", "title": "Arbeiter Ring Publishing", "text": "Arbeiter Ring Publishing\n\nArbeiter Ring Publishing is a worker-owned and operated independent book publisher and distributor that specializes in progressive, radical and anarchist literature (both fiction and non-fiction). Founded by Todd Scarth and John K. Samson in Winnipeg in 1996, the publishing company was originally based in The Old Market Autonomous Zone (or A-Zone), which also houses Mondragon Bookstore and Coffee House, and other radical and worker-run organizations. Named after Arbeiter Ring (meaning \"Workers' Circle\"), a radical Jewish workers' organization (which had a strong presence in Winnipeg at the outset of the 20th century and helped promote Emma Goldman's early visits to the city), Arbeiter Ring also shares a commitment to workers' self-management. One aspect of this is the organization's promotion of participatory economics (or parecon), an alternative economic model first articulated by Michael Albert and Robin Hahnel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30131820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30131820", "title": "Association for Women in Psychology", "text": "Association for Women in Psychology\n\nThe Association for Women in Psychology (AWP) is a not-for-profit scientific and educational organization committed to encouraging feminist psychological research, theory, and activism.\n\nAWP was founded in 1969 at the annual convention of the American Psychological Association. One of its co-founders was Phyllis Chesler. At the time, there was no national organization nor division thereof addressing issues related to the psychology of women. Also in 1969, after an Association for Women in Psychology group had worked on a series of demands, Phyllis Chesler and Dr. Dorothy Riddle presented the demands at the annual meeting of the American Psychological Association. Chesler prepared a statement on the APA's obligations to women and demanded one million dollars in reparation for the damage psychology had perpetrated against allegedly mentally ill and traumatized women. Members of the Association for Women in Psychology also picketed the APA's Board of Directors meeting, to raise awareness of the sexism within the organization and the field of psychology in general. In response, APA eventually established a division on the Psychology of Women (Division 35) in 1973. Together, AWP and Division 35 successfully advocated for a Women's Program Office at APA's national headquarters.\n\nAWP remains an independent organization, operating separately from Division 35, outside of APA's organizational structure. AWP has held non-governmental organization (NGO) status within the United Nations since 1976. AWP maintains a broad membership inclusive of all people interested in the psychology of women. AWP sponsors regional and national conferences on feminist psychology and offers several awards to recognize significant contributions to the psychology of women. AWP also collaborates with other organizations in support of feminist approaches to psychological theory, research, pedagogy, teaching, and mental health issues. AWP is concerned about such things as reproductive rights and bias in psychiatric diagnosis in DSM-5.\n\nAWP co-sponsors a listserv, POWR-L, the Psychology of Women Resource List, and a suite at the APA convention with Division 35, both of which support collaboration and collegiality among feminists.\n\n"}
{"id": "50561453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50561453", "title": "Attorney General of Indonesia", "text": "Attorney General of Indonesia\n\nThe Attorney General of Indonesia (Jaksa Agung Republik Indonesia) is the competent authority to advise the Government of Indonesia on matters of law. The Attorney General represents the government at the Supreme Court of Indonesia and is a Cabinet-level official. The office is not part of the Justice Department, however, as the cabinet has its own Law and Human Rights department (\"Kementerian Hukum dan Hak Asasi Manusia\") with a separate Minister of Law and Human Rights (\"Menteri Hukum dan Hak Asasi Manusia\") that focuses on more technical matters and regulation making rather than executing the Supreme Court's order. \n\nThe Attorney General is also a Solicitor General. Thus, the Attorney General can represent the Government in the Supreme Court. The Attorney General has the power to indict and prosecute outlaws and law breakers. The term of office of the Attorney General was determined by the Constitutional Court of Indonesia in 2010 to be concurrent with the term of office of the President of Indonesia. The current Attorney General of Indonesia of Indonesia is HM Prasetyo, who assumed office in 2014.\n"}
{"id": "808982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=808982", "title": "Capacity (law)", "text": "Capacity (law)\n\nThe capacity of natural and juridical persons (legal persons) in general, determines whether they may make binding amendments to their rights, duties and obligations, such as getting married or merging, entering into contracts, making gifts, or writing a valid will. Capacity is an aspect of status and both are defined by a person's \"personal law\":\nWhen the law limits or bars a person from engaging in specified activities, any agreements or contracts to do so are either voidable or void for incapacity. Sometimes such legal incapacity is referred to as \"incompetence\". For comparison, see Competence (law).\n\nAs an aspect of the social contract between a state and its citizens, the state adopts a role of protector to the weaker and more vulnerable members of society. In public policy terms, this is the policy of \"parens patriae\". Similarly, the state has a direct social and economic interest in promoting trade, so it will define the forms of business enterprise that may operate within its territory, and lay down rules that will allow both the businesses and those that wish to contract with them a fair opportunity to gain value. This system worked well until social and commercial mobility increased. Now persons routinely trade and travel across state boundaries (both physically and electronically), so the need is to provide stability across state lines given that laws differ from one state to the next. Thus, once defined by the personal law, persons take their capacity with them like a passport whether or however they may travel. In this way, a person will not gain or lose capacity depending on the accident of the local laws, e.g. if A does not have capacity to marry her cousin under her personal law (a rule of consanguinity), she cannot evade that law by travelling to a state that does permit such a marriage (see nullity). In Saskatchewan Canada, an exception to this law allows married persons to become the common law spouse of other(s) prior to divorcing the first spouse. This law is not honored amongst other Canadian provinces.\n\nStandardized classes of person have had their freedom restricted. These limitations are exceptions to the general policy of freedom of contract and the detailed human and civil rights that a person of ordinary capacity might enjoy. Hence, for example, freedom of movement may be modified, the right to vote may be withdrawn, etc. As societies have developed more equal treatment based on gender, race and ethnicity, many of the older incapacities have been removed. For example, English law used to treat married women as lacking the capacity to own property or act independently of their husbands (the last of these rules was repealed by the Domicile and Matrimonial Proceedings Act 1973, which removed the wife's domicile of dependency for those marrying after 1974, so that a husband and wife could have different domiciles).\n\nThe definition of an \"infant\" or \"minor\" varies, each state reflecting local culture and prejudices in defining the age of majority, marriageable age, voting age, etc. In many jurisdictions, legal contracts, in which (at least) one of the contracting parties is a minor, are voidable by the minor. For a minor to undergo medical procedure, consent is determined by the minor's parent(s) or legal guardian(s). The right to vote in the United States is currently set at 18 years, while the right to buy and consume alcohol is often set at 21 years by U.S. state law. Some laws, such as marriage laws, may differentiate between the sexes and allow women to marry younger. There are instances in which a person may be able to gain capacity earlier than the prescribed time through a process of emancipation. Conversely, many states allow the inexperience of childhood to be an excusing condition to criminal liability and set the age of criminal responsibility to match the local experience of emerging behavioral problems (see \"doli incapax\"). For sexual crimes, the age of consent determines the potential liability of adult accused.\n\nAs an example of liability in contract, the law in most of Canada provides that an infant is not bound by the contracts he or she enters into except for the purchase of necessaries and for beneficial contracts of service. Infants must pay fair price only for necessary goods and services. However, the British Columbia \"Infants Act\" (RSBC 1996 c.223) declares all contracts, including necessities and beneficial contracts of service, are unenforceable against an infant. Only student loans and other contracts made specifically enforceable by statute will be binding on infants in that province.\n\nIn contracts between an adult and an infant, adults are bound but infants may escape contracts at their option (i.e. the contract is voidable). Infants may ratify a contract on reaching age of majority. In the case of executed contracts, when the infant has obtained some benefit under the contract, he/she cannot avoid obligations unless what was obtained was of no value. Upon repudiation of a contract, either party can apply to the court. The court may order restitution, damages, or discharge the contract. All contracts involving the transfer of real estate are considered valid until ruled otherwise.\n\nA minor (typically under 18) can disaffirm a contract made, no matter the case. However, the entire contract must be disaffirmed. Depending on the jurisdiction, the minor may be required to return any of the goods still in his possession. Also, barter transactions such as purchasing a retail item in exchange for a cash payment are generally recognized through a legal fiction not to be contracts due to the absence of promises of future action. A minor may not disavow such a trade.\nGenerally, the courts base their determination on whether the minor, after reaching the age of majority, has had ample opportunity to consider the nature of the contractual obligations he or she entered into as a minor and the extent to which the adult party to the contract has performed.\nAs one court put it, \"the purpose of the infancy doctrine is to protect 'minors from foolishly squandering their wealth through improvident contracts with crafty adults who would take advantage of them in the marketplace.'\"\n\nIndividuals may have an inherent physical condition which prevents them from achieving the normal levels of performance expected from persons of comparable age, or their inability to match current levels of performance may be caused by contracting an illness. Whatever the cause, if the resulting condition is such that individuals cannot care for themselves, or may act in ways that are against their interests, those persons are vulnerable through dependency and require the protection of the state against the risks of abuse or exploitation. Hence, any agreements that were made are voidable, and a court may declare that person a ward of the state and grant power of attorney to an appointed legal guardian.\n\nIn England and Wales, this is a specific function of the Court of Protection, and all matters concerning persons who have lost, or expect soon to lose, mental capacity are regulated under the Mental Capacity Act 2005. This makes provision for lasting powers of attorney under which decisions about the health, welfare and financial assets of a person who has lost capacity may be dealt with in that person's interests.\n\nIn Ireland the Assisted Decision-Making (Capacity) Act was passed in 2015. This Act addresses the capacity of people with intellectual disabilities. The general principles are set out in section 8 of the Act.\n\nThis sort of problem sometimes arises when people suffer some form of medical problem such as unconsciousness, coma, extensive paralysis, or delirious states, from accidents or illnesses such as strokes, or often when older people become afflicted with some form of medical/mental disability such as Huntington's disease, Alzheimer's disease, Lewy body disease, or similar dementia. Such persons are often unable to consent to medical treatment and otherwise handle their financial and other personal matters. If the afflicted person has prepared documents beforehand about what to do in such cases, often in a revocable living trust or related documents, then the named legal guardian may be able to take over their financial and other affairs. If the afflicted person owns his/her property jointly with a spouse or other able person, the able person may be able to take over many of the routine financial affairs. Otherwise, it is often necessary to petition a court, such as a probate court, that the afflicted person lacks legal capacity and allow a legal guardian to take over their financial and personal affairs. Procedures and court review have been established, dependent on the area of jurisdiction, to prevent exploitation of the incapacitated person by the guardian. The guardian periodically provides a financial accounting for court review.\n\nIn the Criminal Law, the traditional common law M'Naghten Rules excused all persons from liability if they did not understand what they were doing or, if they did, that they did not know it was wrong. The consequences of this excuse were that those accused were detained indefinitely or until the medical authorities certified that it was safe to release them back into the community. This consequence was felt to be too draconian and so statutes have introduced new defenses that will limit or reduce the liability of those accused of committing offenses if they were suffering from a mental illness at the relevant time (see the insanity and mental disorder defenses).\n\nAlthough individuals may have consumed a sufficient quantity of intoxicant or drug to reduce or eliminate their ability to understand exactly what they are doing, such conditions are self-induced and so the law does not generally allow any defense or excuse to be raised to any actions taken while incapacitated. The most generous states do permit individuals to repudiate agreements as soon as sober, but the conditions to exercising this right are strict.\n\nIf individuals find themselves in a situation where they can no longer pay their debts, they lose their status as credit-worthy and become bankrupt. States differ on the means whereby their outstanding liabilities can be treated as discharged and on the precise extent of the limits that are placed on their capacities during this time but, after discharge, they are returned to full capacity. In the United States, some states have spendthrift laws under which an irresponsible spender may be deemed to lack capacity to enter into contracts (in Europe, these are termed prodigality laws) and both sets of laws may be denied extraterritorial effect under public policy as imposing a potentially penal status on the individuals affected.\n\nDuring times of war or civil strife, a state will limit the ability of its citizens to offer help or assistance in any form to those who are acting against the interests of the state. Hence, all commercial and other contracts with the \"enemy\", including terrorists, would be considered void or suspended until a cessation of hostilities is agreed.\n\nThe extent of an artificial person's capacity depends on the law of the place of incorporation and the enabling provisions included in the constitutive documents of incorporation. The general rule is that anything not included in the corporation's capacity, whether expressly or by implication, is \"ultra vires\", i.e. \"beyond the power\" of the corporation, and so may be unenforceable by the corporation, but the rights and interests of innocent third parties dealing with the corporations are usually protected.\nThere is a clear division between the approach of states to the definition of partnerships. One group of states treats general and limited partnerships as aggregate. In terms of capacity, this means that they are no more than the sum of the natural persons who conduct the business. The other group of states allows partnerships to have a separate legal personality which changes the capacity of the \"firm\" and those who conduct its business and makes such partnerships more like corporations.\nIn some states, trade unions have limited capacity unless any contract made relates to union activities.\nWhen a business entity becomes insolvent, an administrator, receiver, or other similar legal functionary may be appointed to determine whether the entity shall continue to trade or be sold so that the creditors may receive all or a proportion of the money owing to them. During this time, the capacity of the entity is limited so that its liabilities are not increased unreasonably and to the detriment of the existing creditors.\n\n"}
{"id": "12823065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12823065", "title": "Caretaker government of Bangladesh", "text": "Caretaker government of Bangladesh\n\nThe Caretaker Government of Bangladesh () was a form of government in which Bangladesh used to be ruled by a selected government for an interim period during the transition from one elected government to another, after the completion of tenure of the former, during the period between 1996 to 2008. The outgoing elected government used to hand over its power to the nonelected nonpartisan caretaker government (CTG).\n\nTop members of the caretaker government did not represent any political party; nor were they allowed to contest the elections. The main objective of the Caretaker Government (CTG) was to create a level playing field environment in which an election could be held in a free and fair manner without any political influence by the outgoing government.\n\nIt was not empowered to take any policy decisions unless it was necessary. The head of the Caretaker Government (CTG) was called the Chief Adviser (in place of Prime Minister of Bangladesh) and was selected by the President of Bangladesh. The Chief Adviser selected the other advisers. The top positions of the administration were generally distributed among the advisers. The Chief Adviser and the other advisers were committed for their activities to the President of Bangladesh.\n\nIn 1990 three party alliances discussed creating a better environment for elections. They jointly made a demand for it. After the forced resignation of General Hussain Muhammad Ershad, the three alliances nominated Chief Justice Shahabuddin Ahmed as the Chief Adviser. The caretaker government was headed by a Chief Adviser, who enjoyed the same power as the regular prime minister of the country except in defence matters. The advisers functioned as ministers.\n\nSince 1996, a Caretaker government has managed the elections and transitions of 1996, 2001 and 2008. Although the first caretaker government (CTG) was intended to help the transition from authoritarianism to democracy, this system was adopted as part of the Constitution in 1996 by the Sixth Parliament. It was dominated by Bangladesh Nationalist Party, which yielded to opposition pressure.\n\nIn Bangladesh, a Caretaker Government (CTG) ruled for the period of 1990 to 1991 with the understanding of the major political party alliances. Later, CTGs were formed within the constitutional framework in 1996, 2001 and 2006. The 13th amendment to the constitution was passed in the parliament formalising this arrangement.\n\nIn addition, an extra-constitutional military-backed CTG was installed in 2007; it governed the country without legitimacy, but ultimately handed over power to the elected political party following 29 December 2008 parliamentary election. They were under pressure internationally to yield to a democratically elected government.\n\nAccording to the provision (before abolishment) of CTG in the Bangladesh Constitution, there were six options to appoint a Chief Advisor (CA). The last option of CA is the President. The CTG had to hold an election within 90 days and in 120 days could hand over power to the duly elected political party. The daily operations of government, routine duties, and holding parliamentary election are the mandated responsibilities of the CTG.\n\nCaretaker Government was very popular in Bangladesh although it was a contradiction with constitution. Recently Pakistan and Greece have also adopted this model to hold elections and overcome political stalemate.\n\nThe military-backed Caretaker Government (CTG) was formed outside the constitutional provisions. It performed all responsibilities of the regular elected government and continued for 2 years. Ruling autocratically, the Army chief used to attend the advisory council meetings and pressured the cabinet to make decisions he wanted. Adviser to President, M Mukhlesur Rahman Chowdhury, was ousted as he was against the Army's actions.\n\nLater, President Iajuddin Ahmed had to run the presidency at gun point. Lt. Gen. Moeen upgraded the Army Chief of Staff's rank to General; to maintain balance the other two military service chiefs were also promoted. Moeen extended the rule of the CTG for two years while his tenure for one year as army chief without lawful authority, in the absence of regular elected government. The senior adviser and minister of state Mukhles Chowdhury tried to solve the political problems. He brought the rival political parties to the planned parliamentary elections of 22 January 2007. But, by cancelling H M Ershad's nomination, Moeen staged a military coup on 11 January 2007.\n\nMukhles Chowdhury was the de facto President and Prime Minister from 2006 to January 2007. Although strongly criticised by civil, military, political, media and the inner circle of President's office and President's family, a later investigation demonstrated that he had run the government honestly. The then PM's political secretary was dead against his induction in the government publicly.\n\nOn 11 January 2007 when Mukhles Chowdhury became powerless, Brigadier Fazlul Bari decided to impose a curfew and press censorship with the consent of Major General Masududdin Chowdhury at Advisor's Office. It was promoted as Mukhles Chowdhury's decision by a section of press deliberately. This way the certain quarter worked against democracy and for autocracy openly. According to Moeen's book, Mukhles Chowdhury was the most powerful man in the Presidency. He was offered to be the President and later to be the Chief adviser and finally through Brigadier Bari who went to his office requesting to run the country for two years and arrange trial of alleged corrupt politicians, bureaucrats, businessmen, media-men etc. However, Chowdhury disagreed with such formula saying democracy must continue with following the system to check corruption.\n\nMukhles Chowdhury stopped the process of MPO of his father's Technical Institute, approval of sanctioning a government building to that institution and ensured his cousin's arrest for a car accident while was in power. As army group did not do anything to Chowdhury legally, they arranged attack by DGFI, PGR and Army in Dhaka on 26 February 2007 and 7 September 2007 in Dhaka. After one year and three and half months of military takeover, on 11 January 2007, Chowdhury left Bangladesh. He was under attack publicly in New York and in London, including 15 September in London 2008, by Brigadier A. T. M. Amin.\n\nThe national election of Bangladesh was held on 29 December 2008 under the Caretaker government formed with Dr. Fakhruddin Ahmed as the Chief Adviser on 13 January 2007. This was the third Caretaker government formed after the tenure of the government of prime minister Khaleda Zia ended in October 2006. The Caretaker government of Dr. Fakhruddin Ahmed functioned without legislative authority as it continued to function after its scheduled tenure of 120 days ended on 12 May 2007. All decisions taken after this date must be ratified by the parliament for the sake of legitimacy.\n\nThe Caretaker government of Dr. Fakhruddin Ahmed was a military controlled and has made extensive use of the military to stymie the chaos that preceded 11 January 2007 (popularly known as \"1/11\", like 9/11). From the very outset however, the government made it clear that they were there not only to arrange a free and fair election, but also to make sure that all aspects that are connected to it are reviewed properly. This meant major reforms in the election system, but also making sure that corrupt candidates could not take part in the election.\n\nThe task was however an enormous one, since Bangladesh is regarded as one of the most corrupt nations in the world. Therefore, the government had exceeded its mandated term, which according to the constitution allows it to stay only for 90 days.\n\nThe caretaker government introduced Voter ID cards (with photograph) for the first time just before Bangladeshi general election, 2008. The Bangladesh Army, including members of other military forces, were deployed throughout the nation prior to the elections, including the remotest areas, to assist with voter registration and issuance of the new IDs. They were equipped with laptops and small digital cameras in an effort that would result in the most orderly voters' registration list in Bangladesh's history.\n\nInitial reactions of the public were welcoming. The arrests of corrupt prominent politicians in 2007 led many to believe that a new political age was imminent. No new major parties came into the scene. In some cases, former political leaders had been released from prison in 2008 and appeared to be returning to former positions and displacing reformers.\n\nOpponents of the CTG's long tenure had chiefly been of the two major political parties. Members of the public in general understood the reasons and necessity for the government' actions.\n\nThe televisions and print media had reported events throughout the term (2007 to 2008). There had been little questioning of the leaders who had been charged with an array of corruption charges, and who were now on the verge of returning to power. Almost all of the television channels are now owned by members from one of the two major parties.\n\n\nIn 2011 the Bangladesh Awami League led government abolished Caretaker Government through passage of the 15th amendment of the constitution with its majority in Parliament.\n\nOpposition parties, including the BNP, have protested passage of the amendment. People are worried about next elections since the CTG was abolished. Sheikh Hasina has assured the public that parliament will be dissolved if the Court so decides.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39619035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39619035", "title": "Centrism", "text": "Centrism\n\nIn politics, centrism—the centre (British/Canadian/Australian English) or the center (American/Philippine English)—is a political outlook or specific position that involves acceptance or support of a balance of a degree of social equality and a degree of social hierarchy, while opposing political changes which would result in a significant shift of society either strongly to the left or the right.\n\nCentre-left and centre-right politics both involve a general association with centrism combined with leaning somewhat to their respective sides of the spectrum.\n\nVarious political ideologies, such as Christian democracy, can be classified as centrist.\n\nThere have been centrists in both sides of politics, who serve alongside the various factions within the Liberal and Labor parties.\n\nIn addition, there are a number of smaller groups that have formed in response to the bipartisan system who uphold centrist ideals. South Australian Senator Nick Xenophon had launched his own centrist political party called the Nick Xenophon Team (NXT) in 2014, renamed Centre Alliance in 2018. The Palmer United Party has been suggested as being a centrist party as well, but the party itself does not make such formal claims of being politically centrist.\n\nThe traditional centrist party of Flanders was the People's Union which embraced social liberalism and aimed to represent Dutch-speaking Belgians who felt culturally suppressed by Francophones. The New Flemish Alliance is the largest and since 2009 the only extant successor of that party. It is, however, primarily composed of the right wing of the former People's Union, and has adopted a more liberal conservative ideology in recent years.\n\nAmong French speaking Belgians the Humanist Democratic Centre is a centre-right or centre party as it is considerably less conservative than its Flemish counterpart, Christian Democratic & Flemish.\n\nAnother party in the centre of the political spectrum is the liberal Reformist Movement.\n\nBrazilian politics have lots of centrist political parties and one of the greatest examples is the Brazilian Democratic Movement (MDB), which is the largest political party in Brazil.\n\nThe Brazilian Social Democracy Party is also another example of centrist party in Brazilian politics, though it was supported by right-wing political parties from 2002, 2006, 2010 and 2014 elections.\n\nThroughout modern history Canadian governments at the federal level have governed from a moderate, centrist political position. Canada has been dominated by the Liberal Party of Canada who have traditionally positioned themselves as being more moderate and centrist than the center-right Conservative Party of Canada and the more left-wing New Democratic Party, putting them somewhere between the center and center-left. In the late 1970s, Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau claimed that his Liberal Party of Canada adhered to the \"radical center\". Far-right and far-left politics have never been a prominent force in Canadian society.\n\nCroatian People's Party - Liberal Democrats and People's Party - Reformists may be considered as centrist parties. Agrarian Croatian Peasant Party during last years became moderate and centrist, having been centre-right in the past.\n\nCzech Republic has two main centrist political parties: liberal ANO (Yes) and Christian democratic Christian and Democratic Union – Czechoslovak People's Party.\n\nFrance has a tradition of parties that call themselves \"centriste\" and the most notable centrist party is La République en marche !, founded by Emmanuel Macron; who was elected as President of France in May 2017.\n\nAnother party is the Democratic Movement of François Bayrou, founded in 2007. However, the centrist parties often oppose the left-wing parties such as Socialists and Left Front. It often support the centre-right Gaullist parties and have joined several coalitions governed by Presidents Jacques Chirac and Nicolas Sarkozy.\n\n\"Zentrismus\" is a term only known to experts, as it is easily confused with \"Zentralismus\" (\"centralism\", the opposite to decentralisation/federalism), so the usual term in German for the political centre/centrism is \"politische Mitte\" (literally \"political middle\", or \"political centre\"). Historically, the German party with the most purely centrist nature among German parties to have had current or historical parliamentary representations was most likely the social-liberal German Democratic Party of the Weimar Republic (1918–1933).\n\nThere existed during the Weimar Republic (and again after the Nazi period) a \"Zentrum\", a party of German Catholics founded in 1870. It was called Centre Party not for being a proper centrist party, but because it united left-wing and right-wing Catholics, because it was the first German party to be a \"Volkspartei\" (catch-all party) and because his elected representatives sat between the liberals (the left of the time) and the conservatives (the right of the time). However, it was distinctly right-wing conservative in that it was not neutral on religious issues (such as on secular education), being markedly against more liberal and modernist positions.\n\nThe main successor of \"Zentrum\" after the return of democracy to West Germany in 1945, the Christian Democratic Union, has throughout its history alternated between describing itself as right-wing or centrist and sitting on the right-wing (with the Free Democratic Party in its social liberal moments sitting at its left, in the centre and themselves sitting at the centre, with the FDP in its classical liberal moments sitting at its right, in the right-wing). The representatives of the Social Democratic Party of Germany, although they have since the 1990s many times referred to themselves as \"the new middle\" (under influence of the Third way of the time), feel less at ease in describing their party as centrist due to their history and socialist identity.\n\nAlliance '90/The Greens was founded in 1993 as a merger from the East German Alliance 90 (a group of centrist/transversalist civil rights activists) and the (West) German Greens. The latter was a coalition of various unorthodox-left politicians and more liberal \"realists\". This Bundestag party also hesitates in using the term centre, although it does distance itself as well from the tag of left, which identifies it for the moment as a transversalist party. The transversalist moderation of the party and its position in the Bundestag between the Social Democrats and the Christian Democrats (while the FDP has its seats at the right of the Christian Democrats) also points somewhat to The Greens being a more or less centrist party.\n\nIn the state parliaments of specific German states there are other specifically regional parties which could be identified as centrist. The South Schleswig Voter Federation, of the Danish and Frisian minorities in the state of Schleswig-Holstein has currently a centrist political position, although in the past the party usually leaned to the left. In the German presidential elections of 2009, 2010 and 2012, it supported the candidates of the Social Democrats and the Greens. In Bavaria, the Free Voters party present at the state parliament may also be seen as a centrist party.\n\nIn Greece centrism has its roots to centrist politician and founder of Agricultural and Labour Party, Alexandros Papanastasiou. In 1961, Georgios Papandreou created along with other political leaders the coalition party of Centre Union. Five parties were merged: Liberal Party, Progressive Agricultural Democratic Union, National Progressive Center Union, Popular Social Party into one, with strong centrist agenda opposed equally to right wing party of National Radical Union and left wing party of United Democratic Left. The Centre Union Party was the last Venizelist party to hold power in Greece. The party nominally continued to exist until 1977 (after the Junta it was known as the Center Union – New Forces), when its successor Union of the Democratic Centre (EDIK) party was created.\n\nUnion of Centrists was created by Vassilis Leventis in 1992 under the title \"Union of Centrists and Ecologists\", though the name was changed shortly after. The Union of Centrists claims to be the ideological continuation of the old party Center Union. The party strives to become \"the political continuance of the centrist expression in Greece\". Leventis aimed to become part of the Venizelist legacy of some great politicians of the past, such as Eleftherios Venizelos and George Papandreou Sr. However, the party's total influence had been marginal until 2015, with 1.79% of the total votes (in the Greek legislative election, January 2015) being its highest achievement before finally making its way to the Greek Parliament in September 2015 with 3.43% of the total votes and 9 members elected.\n\nIn India, actor turned politician Kamal Haasan has launched a party named Makkal Needhi Maiam meaning People's Centre for Justice. He claims that the party's ideology is Centrism as the name suggests and looks to focus on the politics of the state Tamil Nadu. As a self-proclaimed rationalist he claims to usher in a scientific rational centrist outlook to seek, analyse and solve various issues instead of falling for the binary polarizing political trap which the right wing and left wing tend to.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, both two main political parties (Fianna Fáil and Fine Gael) claim the political centre ground, but seem to lean to the centre-right and be mostly made up of centre-right members. The two parties have shared broadly similar policies in the past, with their primary division being perceived as being steeped in Irish Civil War politics. Fine Gael is aligned to Christian democratic parties in Europe via its membership of the European People's Party and is described internationally as centre-right by the likes of Reuters. The consensus in analysis seems to be that Fianna Fáil is mostly centrist, expanding to the centre-right space and that Fine Gael is mostly centre-rightist, expanding also to the centre space.\n\nIn the Netherlands, four moderate centrist to centre-right parties have sent members into the Third Rutte cabinet since 2017. From them, the Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA) and the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD) tend to be centre-right whilst the social liberal Democrats 66 (D66) are more centrist. The Protestant Christian Union is a small Christian Democratic party that has transversalist positions less typical in European centrist parties. Whilst it is left-leaning on issues such as immigration, welfare and the environment, it is more conservative on social issues, such as drugs and euthanasia. They have participated in several coalitions due to their moderate centrist politics.\n\nLivable Netherlands was originally a centrist political movement of local grass-root parties with an anti-establishment touch similar to early D66. However, the party entered in 2002 national parliament with a right-wing populist programme based on security and immigration as the major issues.\n\nIn the 1980s and 90s there were two self-described \"centre\" parties, the Centre Party and the Centre Democrats who at some point were represented in Dutch parliament. However these parties were considered as far right (in the case of the Centre Democrats) or even extreme right (in the case of the Centre Party) in their opinion about foreign immigration. Both parties denied being racist or extremist in character. The party slogan of the Center Party was \"niet rechts, niet links\" (\"Neither rightist nor leftist\"), and in some respect could be seen as a centrist (or more correctly Third Position) party since it borrowed ideas from the political (far) right (a tough stand on immigration combined with typical racial prejudice) and the political left (mixed economy, green politics). However both of these two parties didn't really have a coherent ideology; they were basically one-issue parties focussed on what the perceived as mass immigration from non-European countries.\n\nIn most of the Nordic countries, there are Nordic agrarian parties. These share in addition to the centrist position on the socio-economic left-right scale a clear, separate ideology.\n\nThis position is centred on decentralisation, a commitment to small business and environmental protection. Centrists have aligned themselves with the Liberal International and European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party. Historically, all of these parties were farmers' parties committed to maintaining rural life. In the 1960s, these parties broadened their scope to include non-farmer-related issues and renamed themselves Centre Party.\n\nNeither the Centre Democrats (a now defunct centrist political party) nor the Liberal Alliance (a political party founded as a centrist social liberal party, but that now is a classical liberal party), both of Denmark, are rooted in centrist agrarianism.\n\nPakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI), founded by Imran Khan, claims to be a centrist political party. Following the general election of 2013, PTI emerged as the second-largest political party in Pakistan by number of votes. In July 2018 it won the general elections of Pakistan and Imran Khan, its chairman, became Prime Minister.\n\nThe Third Way is a small centrist Palestinian political party active in Palestinian politics. Founded on 16 December 2005, the party is led by Salam Fayyad and Hanan Ashrawi.\n\nIn the January 2006 PLC elections, it received 2.41% of the popular vote and won two of the Council's 132 seats. The party presents itself as an alternative to the two-party system of Hamas and Fatah.\n\nCivic Platform (PO), ruling in 2007–2015, began in 2001 as a liberal conservative party, but later under the leadership of Donald Tusk turned into typical centrist in order to attract left-leading liberal voters. Depending on the context, it is described as either Christian Democratic (it is a member of European People's Party), conservative, liberal, or social. Its pragmatism, technocracy and lack of ideology have been nevertheless criticized and currently, under the new leader Grzegorz Schetyna, it is returning to the right. Other political groups like Polish People's Party (PSL) may be described as centrist too (in Poland, national-moral right-wing Law and Justice is social conservative, usually at the same time economical left and favor protectionism policies).\n\nThere are Bareunmirae Party, Democratic Peace Party and Evergreen Korea Party in the centrist political parties, advocating centrism in South Korea, though these parties are dissidents from the two mainstream parties, the liberal Democratic Party and conservative Liberty Korea Party.\n\nThe Bareun Party insists on \"Centrist conservatism\" and is close to liberal conservatism.\n\nDemocratic Party does not have the insist centrism ideology. It implies an ideology similar to the social liberalism that the U.S. Democratic Party is proposing. However, compare to the U.S. Democrats, the Democratic Party is progressive on economic justice but conservative on social issues.\n\nThe only national party that defends itself as a centrist party is Citizens, whose platform is been increasingly perceived as right-wing by the Spanish citizens as the Centro de Investigaciones Sociológicas surveys show. In April 2018 Ciudadanos obtained a 6,77, when ranging political parties from 1 to 10, where 1 was farthest left and 10 its equivalent in the right. It first entered the Cortes Generales in 2015.\n\nIn Catalonia, where the party was born, many people even consider it as an extreme right-wing party, considering its fierce \"opposition to nationalism\". Not even the media agree on its place and several newspapers from different ideologies manifest that Citizens is either left or right, depending on their political line. Regardless of subjective opinions, the truth is that Ciudadanos has always tried to reach agreements with the national party, which according to several opinion polls Spanish voters most traditionally considered to be the closest to the centre: Union, Progress and Democracy (UPyD). This popular perception was pointed out by UPyD, which positions itself simultaneously on the political centre and cross-sectionalism, thus embracing ideas across the political spectrum.\n\nUPyD has lost a great deal of its voters to Ciudadanos, the latter counting with 32 representatives in the Spanish Congress in the last election. Electors also consider as centrists the Convergence and Union coalition from Catalonia and the Basque Nationalist Party from the Spanish Basque Country, although these two usually consider themselves as right-centrist parties.\n\nIn Switzerland the political centre (in German: \"die Mitte\"; in French: \"le Centre\"; Italian: \"il Centro\") is traditionally occupied by the so-called \"bourgeois\" parties: FDP.The Liberals (centre-right), the Christian Democratic People's Party (centre to centre-right) and the much smaller Evangelical People's Party (centre to centre-left). Recently some new parties were founded who claimed to be part of the political centre: the Conservative Democratic Party (centre to centre-right), a split from the right-wing populist Swiss People's Party is a self-styled centre party and is widely conceived to be a party of the political centre as is shown in a recent study. and the Green Liberal Party (centre)) a split from the leftist Green Party.\n\nThe Social Democratic Party is considered to be more to the left than to the centre\n\nIn Switzerland the centrist parties tend to co-operate closely in Canton parliaments and municipal councils.\n\nIn the 1970s, the traditionally socialist Labour Party moved further to the left, causing discomfort to MPs who saw themselves as belonging to the party's social democratic tendency. On 25 January 1981, leading figures from the Labour Party (Roy Jenkins, David Owen, Shirley Williams and Bill Rodgers, known collectively as the \"Gang of Four\") launched the Council for Social Democracy, which later became the Social Democratic Party in March, after outlining their policies in what became known as the Limehouse Declaration. The \"Gang of Four\" were centrists, who had defected from the Labour Party due to what they perceived to be the influence of the Militant tendency and the \"hard left\" within the party. After waning electoral success, the SDP merged with the Liberal Party in 1988 to create the centrist Liberal Democrats.\n\nIn the late 1990s, Labour under the leadership of Tony Blair began to move towards a centrist Third Way policy platform, creating the New Labour movement. The new New Labour era is seen as ending when Blair's successor Gordon Brown lost the 2010 election to the Conservatives. Brown's successor as leader, Ed Miliband, moved the party (slightly) to the left of New Labour era position. Miliband set out his stall to \"redefine the political centre\", with pundits declaring New Labour \"dead\". The Blue Labour movement, launched in 2009, attempted to cultivate a new path for Labour centrism that would appeal to socially conservative working class periods, and was a mild influence on Labour during Miliband's tenure. The party later moved decisively to the left when the socialist Jeremy Corbyn became leader in 2015, as a result of the introduction of a one member one vote system under Miliband.\n\nIn March 2011, Nick Clegg, the-then leader of the Liberal Democrats and Deputy Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, stated that he believed that his party belonged to the radical centre, mentioning John Maynard Keynes, William Beveridge, Jo Grimond, David Lloyd George and John Stuart Mill as examples of the radical centre that preceded the Liberal Democrats' establishment in 1988. He pointed to liberalism as an ideology of people and described the political spectrum and his party's position as follows: \"For the left, an obsession with the state. For the right, a worship of the market. But as liberals, we place our faith in people. People with power and opportunity in their hands. Our opponents try to divide us with their outdated labels of left and right. But we are not on the left and we are not on the right. We have our own label: Liberal. We are liberals and we own the freehold to the centre ground of British politics. Our politics is the politics of the radical centre\".\n\nIn the 2000s, David Cameron also moved the Conservative Party towards the centre, allowing his party to be elected in 2010 in a coalition with the Liberal Democrats. In the 2015 election, the Conservatives gained a majority and the Liberal Democrats lost most of their seats. They regained a small number of seats in the 2017 election. Cameron's successor Theresa May used left-wing rhetoric on her appointment as Prime Minister, stating her wish to tackle social inequality, and adopted some of Ed Miliband's policies; for example, on regulating energy companies. However, the party's 2017 manifesto was seen as sharp break from the centre ground, appealing to traditionally Tory heartland issues in the aftermath of the UK's Brexit referendum, including a promise to restore fox hunting.\n\nFollowing the Brexit referendum, politics in the UK was seen as having reverted to traditionally polarised \"left and right\" politics. For the 2017 election, the group More United was set up in the vein of the US Super PAC model to support candidates from multiple parties who meet its values; it gave support primarily to Labour and Lib Dem MPs, as well as one Conservative. In April 2018, amid \"The Observer\" newspaper reported that a group setup by Simon Franks had amassed £50 million to start a new centrist political party in the UK to field candidates at the next general election. It has reportedly been named United for Change.\n\nIndependent candidate H. Ross Perot garnered nearly 19% of the popular vote in the 1992 presidential election. His \"get under the hood\" campaign focusing on balancing the budget has been one of the most successful centrist efforts in U.S. history, but he did not carry a single state in the Electoral College. He went on to form the Reform Party and run a second time in the 1996 presidential election with less success.\n\nA late-2011 Gallup poll of Americans' attitudes towards government reported that 17% expressed conservative views, 22% expressed libertarian views, 20% expressed communitarian views, 17% expressed centrist views and 24% expressed liberal views.\n\nAmericans Elect, a coalition of American centrists funded by wealthy donors such as business magnate Michael Bloomberg, former junk-bond trader Peter Ackerman and hedge fund manager John H. Burbank III, launched an effort in mid-2011 to create a national \"virtual primary\" that would challenge the current two-party system. The group aims to nominate a presidential ticket of centrists with names that would be on ballots in all 50 states. The group banks on broad cultural dissatisfaction with the partisan gridlock in Washington, D.C. \"The Christian Science Monitor\" has stated that \"the political climate couldn't be riper for a serious third-party alternative\" such as their effort, but the \"hurdles Americans Elect faces are daunting\" to get on ballots.\n\nJournalist and political commentator E. J. Dionne wrote in his book \"Why Americans Hate Politics\", published on the eve of the 1992 presidential election, that he believes American voters are looking for a \"New Political Center\" that intermixes \"liberal instincts\" and \"conservative values\". He labelled people in this centre position as \"tolerant traditionalists\". He described them as believers in conventional social morals that ensure family stability, as tolerant within reason to those who challenge those morals and as pragmatically supportive of government intervention in spheres such as education, child care and health care, as long as budgets are balanced.\n\nWashington political journalist Linda Killian wrote in her 2012 book \"The Swing Vote\" that Americans are frustrated with Congress and its dysfunction and inability to do its job. A growing number of Americans are not satisfied with the political process because a number of factors such as influx of money into politics and the influence of special interests and lobbyists. The book classifies four types of independent voters including \"NPR Republicans\", \"America First Democrats\", \"The Facebook Generation\" and \"Starbucks Moms and Dads\" who were big determinates of swing votes in the 2012 presidential election. Political Columnist and author John Avlon wrote in his 2005 book Independent Nation that centrism is not a matter of compromise or reading polls; rather it's an antidote to the politics of divisiveness, providing principled opposition to political extremes.\n\nCentrists in the two major U.S. political parties are often found in the New Democrat Coalition and the Blue Dog Coalition of the Democratic Party and the Republican Main Street Partnership of the Republican Party. Outside of the two major parties, some centrists inhabit the Libertarian Party and independent candidacy movements, such as The Centrist Project co-founded by Charles Wheelan.\n\n"}
{"id": "160028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=160028", "title": "Co-operative Commonwealth Federation", "text": "Co-operative Commonwealth Federation\n\nThe Co-operative Commonwealth Federation (CCF) (, from 1955 the \"\") was a social-democratic and democratic socialist political party in Canada. The CCF was founded in 1932 in Calgary, Alberta, by a number of socialist, agrarian, co-operative, and labour groups, and the League for Social Reconstruction. In 1944, the CCF formed the first social-democratic government in North America when it was elected to form the provincial government in Saskatchewan. In 1961, the CCF was succeeded by the New Democratic Party (NDP). The full, but little used, name of the party was Co-operative Commonwealth Federation (Farmer-Labour-Socialist).\n\nThe CCF aimed to alleviate the suffering that workers and farmers, the ill and the old endure under capitalism, seen most starkly during the Great Depression, through the creation of a Co-operative Commonwealth, which would entail economic co-operation, public ownership of the economy, and political reform.\nThe object of the political party as reported at its founding meeting in Calgary in 1932 was \"the federation [joining together] of organizations whose purpose is the establishment in Canada of a co-operative commonwealth, in which the basic principle of regulating production, distribution and exchange will be the supplying of human needs instead of the making of profit.\"\n\nThe Co-operative Commonwealth, the goal of the CCF, was defined as a \"community freed from the domination of irresponsible financial and economic power in which all social means of production and distribution, including land, are socially owned and controlled either by voluntarily organized groups of producers and consumers or – in the case of major public services and utilities and such productive and distributive enterprises as can be conducted most efficiently when owned in common – by public corporations responsible to the people's elected representatives\". Many of the party's first Members of Parliament (MPs) were members of the Ginger Group, composed of United Farmers of Alberta, left-wing Progressive, and Labour MPs. These MPs included United Farmers of Alberta MPs William Irvine and Ted Garland, Agnes Macphail (UFO), Humphrey Mitchell, Abraham Albert Heaps, Angus MacInnis, and Labour Party MP J. S. Woodsworth. Also involved in founding the new party were members of the League for Social Reconstruction (LSR), such as F. R. Scott and Frank Underhill. It can be said that the CCF was founded on May 26, 1932, when the Ginger Group MPs and LSR members met in William Irvine's office, the unofficial caucus meeting room for the Ginger Group, and went about forming the basis of the new party. J. S. Woodsworth was unanimously appointed the temporary leader until they could hold a founding convention. The temporary name for the new party was the Commonwealth Party.\nAt its founding convention in 1932 in Calgary, the party settled on the name \"Co-operative Commonwealth Federation (Farmer-Labour-Socialist)\" and selected J. S. Woodsworth as party leader. Woodsworth had been an Independent Labour Party MP since 1921 and a member of the Ginger Group of MPs. The party's 1933 convention, held in Regina, Saskatchewan, adopted the Regina Manifesto as the party's program. The manifesto outlined a number of goals, including public ownership of key industries, universal public pensions, universal health care, children's allowances, unemployment insurance, and workers' compensation.\n\nIts conclusion read, \"No CCF Government will rest content until it has eradicated capitalism and put into operation the full programme of socialized planning which will lead to the establishment in Canada of the Co-operative Commonwealth.\" The party affiliated to the Socialist International.\n\nIn 2018, Regina—Lewvan MP Erin Weir designated himself as a CCF MP following his expulsion from the New Democratic Party caucus.\n\nIn line with Alberta's important role in founding the CCF, it is said that the first CCF candidate elected was Chester Ronning in the Alberta provincial constituency of Camrose, in October 1932. The UFA, under whose banner he contested the election, formalized its already-strong connection to the CCF in its next provincial convention, in January 1933.\nIn its first federal election, seven CCF MPs were elected to the House of Commons in 1935. Eight were elected in the following election in 1940, including their first member east of Manitoba, Clarence Gillis, in Nova Scotia's Cape Breton South district. The party was divided with the outbreak of World War II: Woodsworth was a passionate pacifist, and this upset many supporters of the Canadian war effort. Woodsworth had a physically dehabilitating stroke in May 1940 and could no longer perform his duties as leader. In October, Woodsworth wrote a letter to the 1940 CCF convention, in essence asking to retire from the leadership. Instead, the delegates created the new position of Honorary President, abolished the President's position and re-elected M. J. Coldwell as the National Chairman. Coldwell was then appointed acting House Leader on 6 November. Woodsworth died on 21 March 1942, and Coldwell officially became the new leader at the July convention in Toronto and threw the party's support behind the war effort. As a memorial to Woodsworth, Coldwell suggested that the CCF create a research foundation, and Woodsworth House was established in Toronto for that purpose. The party won a critical York South by-election on 8 February 1942, and in the process prevented the Conservative leader, former Prime Minister Arthur Meighen, from entering the House of Commons. In the 1945 election, 28 CCF MPs were elected, and the party won 15.6% of the vote.\n\nHowever, the party was to have its greatest success in provincial politics in the 1940s. In 1943, the Ontario CCF became the official opposition in that province, and in 1944 the Saskatchewan CCF formed the first socialist government in North America, with Tommy Douglas as premier. Douglas introduced universal Medicare to Saskatchewan, a policy that was soon adopted by other provinces and implemented nationally by the Liberal Party of Canada during the administration of Prime Minister Lester B. Pearson.\n\nFederally, during the Cold War, the CCF was accused of having Communist leanings. The party moved to address these accusations in 1956 by replacing the Regina Manifesto with a more moderate document, the Winnipeg Declaration. Nevertheless, the party did poorly in the 1958 election, winning only eight seats.\n\nAfter much discussion, the CCF and the Canadian Labour Congress decided to join forces to create a new political party that could make social democracy more popular with Canadian voters. This party, the New Democratic Party (NDP), was founded in 1961.\n\nThe CCF estimated its membership as being slightly more than 20,000 in 1938, less than 30,000 in 1942, and over 90,000 in 1944. Membership figures declined following World War II to only 20,238 in 1950 and would never again reach 30,000\n\nBy the late 1940s the CCF had official or unofficial weekly newspapers in Alberta, British Columbia, and Saskatchewan; twice-monthly papers in Ontario and Manitoba; and a bimonthly in the Maritimes. A French-language paper in Quebec was also attempted at various times. The party also produced many educational books, pamphlets, and magazines, though these efforts declined in the 1950s.\n\nThe national chairman was the equivalent of party president in most Canadian political parties and was sometimes referred to as such, in that it was largely an organizational role. In the case of the CCF, the national chairman oversaw the party's national council and chaired its meetings. Following an initial period in which Woodsworth held both roles, it was usually distinct from and secondary to the position of party leader. National president originally was also a title the leader held, as both Woodsworth and Coldwell held the title when they held seats in the House of Commons. In 1958, after Coldwell lost his seat, the position of national chairman was merged formally into the president's title and was held by David Lewis.\n\n\nThe national secretary was a staff position (initially part-time, and then full-time beginning 1938) which was responsible for the day-to-day organizing of the party. The national secretary was the only full-time employee at the party's national headquarters until 1943, when a research director, Eugene Forsey, and an assistant to the leader were hired.\n\n\nThe CCF had a song, which would be later popularized by the movie \"Prairie Giant: The Tommy Douglas Story\".\n\nFirst verse:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26614167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26614167", "title": "Commercial policy", "text": "Commercial policy\n\nA commercial policy (also referred to as a trade policy or international trade policy) is a government's policy governing international trade. Commercial policy is an all encompassing term that is used to cover topics which involve international trade. Trade policy is often described in terms of a scale between the extremes of free trade (no restrictions on trade) on one side and protectionism (high restrictions to protect domestic producers) on the other.\n\nA common commercial policy can sometimes agreed by treaty within a customs union, as with the European Union's common commercial policy and in Mercosur.\n\nA nation's commercial policy will include and take into account the policies adopted by that nation's government while negotiating international trade. There are several factors that can have an impact on a nation's commercial policy, all of which can have an impact on international trade policies.\n\nRegionalism, or Regional Trade Agreements (RTA), are trade policies and agreements that are crafted by the nations in a region for the purposes of increasing international trade in the area. RTAs have been described by supporters as a means of increasing free trade with the goal of eventually merging into larger, either bilateral or multilateral, trade deals. The more relatively local area of RTAs are useful in resolving trade issues as well without causing gridlock in other trade agreements. Critics of RTAs say that they are a hindrance to the negotiation of trade because they can be lopsided or unfairly beneficial to one side over the other sides, particularly if some of the participants are nations that are still in development.\n\nAs China was rising in economic power and prominence, they turned to regionalism as a strategic method of leveling the playing field with Europe and the United States. In 2000, China signed the Bangkok agreement with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) to reduce tariffs in the region. The signing of the agreement also began the push for a formal Free Trade Agreement between China and ASEAN. However, strained relations between China and other Asian nations such as Japan have prevented the same level of regional FTAs to be put in place with Northeast Asia.\n\nWhen two countries enter into a bilateral trade agreement, they are essentially giving one another special deals and favorable treatment in the arrangements. These privileges can include lowering tariffs on each others goods and services. The United States has signed such treaties as the North American Free Trade Agreement in 1994 as well as with Israel in the 1980s. Experts who support such free trade agreements argue that these deals help to increase competition and offers larger markets that businesses can reach out to. Critics of bilateral agreements claim that a larger nation, such as the United States, can use these agreements to unfairly push smaller states into much harsher work loads than the World Trade Organization already requires.\n\nRelations between the European Union and South Korea have led to both parties signing several bilateral agreements regarding trade policy. In 2009, South Korea and the EU signed the EU-Korea Free Trade Agreement. The signing of the agreement created an FTA that is second only to NAFTA in size. The agreement held the benefits of increased free trade between the participants in the FTA as well as increased challenge to the United States.\n\nPreferential agreements are trade deals that involve nations making deals with specific countries that can aid the interests of one another as opposed to the nondiscriminatory deals that are pushed by the WTO. Nations have been increasingly preferring such deals since the 1950s as they are quicker to show gains for the parties involved in the agreements. A common argument that has been made is that it allows businesses to open up markets that would otherwise be considered closed and therefore falls into the free trade idea that most countries will push for. Countries that have similar levels of GDP and a higher scope in their economies as well as their relative position to one another and the rest of the world are more likely to have preferential trade agreements. PTAs can also be applied to regional areas with unions such as NAFTA, the European Union, and ASEAN being examples of regional PTAs.\n\nThose who opposer PTAs argue that these deals have increased the importance of where a product is made so that tariffs can be applied accordingly. The certification of a product's origin also unfairly holds back smaller countries that have less resources to spend. Others argue that PTAs can hinder negotiations of trade disputes and places an emphasis of which country has more power.\n\nTrade tariffs are a tax that are placed on the import of foreign goods. Tariffs increase the price of imports and are usually levied onto the country the goods are being imported from. Governments will use tariffs as a way to promote competition within their own country with businesses of the foreign country that wishes to sell their goods or services. In some instances, a country's government will use them as a means of protectionism for their own interests. In modern history, generally starting at the mid-20th century, the use of tariffs has been largely diminished in favor of the rise of international trade. Beginning in 2017, the Trump administration began to impose tariffs on several of nations that were involved in trade deals with the United States. The countries targeted by the Trump Tariffs then retaliated with their own tariffs on American goods.\n\nImport quotas are the limitations of the amount of goods that can be imported into the country from foreign businesses. Generally, an import quota is set for a specific period of time with one year being the most common metric. Some versions of the quotas limits the quantity of specific goods being imported into a country while other versions place the limit on the value of said goods. The objectives of quotas can include: the protections of a nations interests, ensuring a balance of trade so as not to create deficits, retaliation to restrictive trade policies of other countries that do business on the international playing field.\n"}
{"id": "33282595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33282595", "title": "Committee for Nonviolent Revolution", "text": "Committee for Nonviolent Revolution\n\nThe Committee for Nonviolent Revolution (CNVR) was a pacifist organization founded in Chicago at a conference held on February 6 to 9, 1946. Many of the founding members were conscientious objectors who had served time in prison or in Civilian Public Service camps for their refusal to fight in World War II. They included Dave Dellinger, George Houser, Lew Hill, Ralph DiGia, and Igal Roodenko. Other members included Larry Scott, Alexander Katz, and A.J. Muste.\n\nThe activists, having been radicalized by their experiences during the war, were dissatisfied with the War Resisters League and other, more traditional pacifist organizations, such as the Fellowship of Reconciliation. They announced that \"the time has come for radical elements from the groups devoted to war resistance, socialism, militant labor unionism, consumer cooperation, and racial equality to attempt to come together in a common program of revolutionary action.\"\n\nThe CNVR promoted civil disobedience, and it opposed the formation of the United Nations, picketing outside the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in 1946. The group also published a number of bulletins and managed to sponsor another conference, whose theme was \"Radicalism in the Next Five Years\", from August 8 to 10, 1947. However, the wide variety of views held by the members, ranging from pacifism to anarcho-syndicalism, made effective organization difficult. By 1948, the group was essentially inactive, and many of its members had regrouped to form Peacemakers.\n\nFormer members of the CNVR also went on to found listener supported public radio stations in the Bay Area, including KPFA.\n"}
{"id": "375302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375302", "title": "Condominium (international law)", "text": "Condominium (international law)\n\nIn international law, a condominium (plural either \"condominia\", as in Latin, or condominiums) is a political territory (state or border area) in or over which multiple sovereign powers formally agree to share equal \"dominium\" (in the sense of sovereignty) and exercise their rights jointly, without dividing it into \"national\" zones.\n\nAlthough a condominium has always been recognized as a theoretical possibility, condominia have been rare in practice. A major problem, and the reason so few have existed, is the difficulty of ensuring co-operation between the sovereign powers; once the understanding fails, the status is likely to become untenable.\n\nThe word is recorded in English since c. 1714, from Modern Latin, apparently coined in Germany c. 1700 from Latin \"com-\" \"together\" + \"dominium\" \"right of ownership\" (compare domain). A condominium of three sovereign powers is sometimes called a tripartite condominium or tridominium.\n\n\nUnder French law, Andorra was once considered to be a French–Spanish condominium, although it is more commonly classed as a co-principality, since it is itself a sovereign state, not a possession of one or more foreign powers. However, the position of Head of State is shared \"ex officio\" by two foreigners, one of whom is the President of France, currently Emmanuel Macron, and the other the Bishop of Urgell in Spain, Joan Enric Vives Sicília.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54874016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54874016", "title": "Countering Violent Extremism Task Force", "text": "Countering Violent Extremism Task Force\n\nCountering Violent Extremism Task Force, or CVE, is a US government program established under the Obama administration to counter all violent ideologies, held by groups or individuals in the US, by engaging communities in the counterterrorism effort and by education programs or counter-messaging. The program works with community groups such as local governments, police departments, universities, and non-profits.\n\nIn December 2016, the incoming Trump presidential transition team planned to stop the program from targeting white supremacists, which have committed bombings and shootings such as at a black church in Charleston. The program was also planned to be renamed to \"Countering Radical Islamic Extremism\". Congressional Republicans have criticized CVE for being politically correct, arguing that using the term \"Radical Islam\" would prevent violent attacks. Community groups have had concerns that the program could be used to target faith groups for surveillance. In May 2017, the Trump White House proposed to cut all funding to CVE. In July 2017, George Selim, a Republican who worked in the Bush administration and headed the CVE, resigned. Selim said that government cooperation with Muslim communities has proven crucial to preventing terrorist attacks but that Trump appointees saw no value in this effort. In August 2017, reacting to reports that the Trump administration rescinded a grant to an organization fighting against neo-Nazism, the Southern Poverty Law Center warned that the threat of domestic terrorism from white supremacists remained high, pointing to an attack in Portland that happened in May.\n"}
{"id": "50365673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50365673", "title": "Cyprus Intelligence Service", "text": "Cyprus Intelligence Service\n\nThe Central Intelligence Service (CIS, KYP) is the intelligence-gathering body of Cyprus. It was reorganised and given official status by a 14 April 2016 Parliamentary bill. The CIS was initially founded in 1970 by President Archbishop Makarios. The new Independent Authority was renamed \"Cyprus Intelligence Service\" and is responsible for internal and external national security, i.e. a Cypriot combination of MI5 and MI6.\n\nSince 4 May 2016, the Cyprus President Nicos Anastasiades has been expected to appoint (Presidential proposal appointment by Council of Ministers) the director of the new CIS and the two sub-commanders under the new legislation (Article 7). The new law, N. 75(I) of 2016, was published in the official journal on 4 May 2016 and entered into force immediately. No appointments have been made to implement the new law. The decision was taken to continue with the old structure of the service until the necessary regulations required by the new law are enacted and also the prospect of a solution of the Cyprus Problem played a role for this decision.\n\nBefore the entry into force of the new law and until today, the political director has been Ambassador Kyriakos Kouros and the director Marios Christofides, who is a senior police officer. The rest of the members are either police officers or members of the Cyprus National Guard placed in the CIS Headquarters in Ayios Andreas, Nicosia.\n\nUnder the new law, the CIS will be able to have its own employees either as permanent members of the intelligence services or under contract and even be able to buy services from the private sector. Its budget will be confidential and under the control of the new director.\n\nThe new CIS Law contains 35 Articles and enacts the Cyprus Intelligence Service as an independent authority liable to the President of the Republic, currently Nikolaos Chrysanthou Anastasiades (2013-2018), and the Council of Ministers.\n\nKyriacos Kouros is the current chief of the KYP. He replaced Andreas Pentaras in 2015, after Pentaras resigned following allegations that the KYP had purchased intrusive phone surveillance technology.\n"}
{"id": "34604869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34604869", "title": "Direction centrale de la police aux frontières", "text": "Direction centrale de la police aux frontières\n\nThe Direction centrale de la police aux frontières (DCPAF) (), former \"police de l'air et des frontières\", is a directorate of the French National Police that is responsible for border control at certain border crossing points and border surveillance in some areas in France. They work alongside their British counterparts at Calais, and along the Channel Tunnel Rail Link with the British Transport Police.\n\nSince 1995, Customs have replaced the Border Police in carrying out immigration control at smaller border checkpoints, in particular at maritime borders and regional airports.\n\nDCPAF is headed by a central director assisted by a deputy central director and includes 2 different commands:\n\nDCPAF has 10,088 agents as of January 1, 2013.\n\nThe central command of DCPAF, headed by a central director and senior police officers from the design and management body, is composed of:\n\nThe DCPAF extends its action throughout the national territory of France and overseas through a territorial network based on 7 zonal directorates (DZPAF North, DZPAF East, DZPAF South East, DZPAF South, DZPAF South West, DZPAF West, DZPAF Antilles-Guyane), 2 airport directorates (Charles De Gaulle Airport/ Paris–Le Bourget Airport), 4 directorates (DPAF New Caledonia, French Polynesia, St Pierre and Miquelon and Mayotte), 45 departmental directorates (DDPAF), 7 railway brigades, 7 poles of analysis and operational management, 10 brigades of aeronautical police. 15 administrative detention centers are controlled by the DCPAF.\n\n"}
{"id": "18020481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18020481", "title": "Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes", "text": "Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes\n\nThe Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes (), commonly known as \"les douanes\", is a French law enforcement agency responsible for levying indirect taxes, preventing smuggling, surveilling borders and investigating counterfeit money. The agency acts as a coast guard, border guard, sea rescue organisation and a customs service. In addition, since 1995, the agency has replaced the Border Police in carrying out immigration control at smaller border checkpoints, in particular at maritime borders and regional airports.\n\nThe Directorate-general is controlled by the Minister for the Budget, Public Accounts and the Civil Service\n() at the Ministry of the Economy, Industry and Employment. It is normally known simply as \"\"la douane\", individual officers being referred to as \"douaniers\"\". Officers are routinely armed.\n\nThe first French customs service was called the Ferme générale (\"General Farm\") and operated under the monarchy. The ferme générale was a private company which bought each year the right to collect taxes. After the Revolution, the General Farm was dismantled and the French Customs, as a State service were created. Shortly after the instauration of Empire, the Customs gained a military status. Some personnels were affected in \"bureaux\" (port or office-based staff who were tasked to apply customs measures to the goods entering and leaving France), others in \"brigades\" (mobile detachments organized and equipped to patrol the borders and arrest smugglers).\n\nDuring French wars, notably the Franco-Prussian War and the First World War. the brigades were used to form marksmen units and to track enemy units trying to infiltrate French lines. During WW1, due to their konwledge of the areas and their experience in human tracking, they were part of \"Corps Francs\" (small units which were tasked to operate behind German lines to collect intelligence and perform sabotages on enemy targets).\nThe red stripe on their uniforms is a remaining of the decoration of one of their officers, \"Capitaine Cutsaert\" during the Napoleonic wars\n\nThe military customs service fought in the early part of the Second World War but was disbanded in June 22nd 1940 after the French defeat and was never reconstituted as a military service.The most plausible reason was the downsizing of the French Military due to the 1940 armistice Nonetheless small units of customs men from customs posts in French Indochina fought against the Japanese as guerilla units until the end of the war.\n\nThe Musée national des douanes located in Bordeaux, France, presents the history of French customs.\n\nFrance has land borders with other members of the European Union Customs Union Belgium, Luxembourg, Germany, Italy, Monaco and Spain.\nEuropean Union laws prohibit systematic customs checks at any border between two members of its Customs Union. So, there is permanent customs facility at the borders with these countries. However, France has borders with non members of this Union : Switzerland, Andorra, Brazil and Surinam. At these borders are located customs facilities.\nMoreover, there are many facilities inland. French Customs are allowed to search vehicles, merchandises and individuals anywhere France according to the French Customs Code, article 60.\n\nFrench Customs, in addition to their main missions, are also tasked to perform immigration controls at the following airports and ports at the external border of the Schengen Area:\nThe French customs service carries out customs checks only at the following airports, ports and stations at the external border of the Schengen Area:\nThe customs headquarters is in Montreuil (Paris).\nThe agency consists of one national headquarter (Cabinet of the General Director, six sub-directorates and supporting services), national departments and local directorates :\n\nFrance is divided into 12 \"Directions inter-régionales\" (Inter-region Directorates). These 12 are divided into \"Directions régionales\" (Region Directorates).\n\nUnlike French Police and French Gendarmerie, most customs officers do not gain their powers from the \"Code de Procédure Pénale\" (Code Of Criminal Procedure) but from the \"Code des Douanes National\" (\"National Customs Code\").\nThey can :\n\nSome of these operations require prior approval by a magistrate.\n\nHowever, the personnels of the SNDJ, nicknamed \"Officiers de Douane Judiciaire\" (ODJ), can not use these powers. They gained their powers from the Code of Criminal Procedure\n\nCategory A \"(inspecteur des douanes )\" is recruited from holders of a bachelor's degree; category B is recruited from holders of a high school diploma giving access to university studies; category C from holders of a vocational high school diploma.\n\nIn 2017, the ranks of Agent de constatation principal de 2nde classe and Agent de constatation de 1ère classe were merged and the rank of Agent de constatation de 2nde classe were renamed Agent de constatation. Before the Agents de constatation de 1ère class wore the same insignia than the Agent de constatation de 2nde classe except they had 3 chevrons.\n\nIn 2010 the aircraft fleet consisted of Reims-Cessna F406 maritime patrol aircraft; and Eurocopter EC-135 and Aérospatiale AS355 helicopters. Two Reims-Cessna F406s operated out of Martinique and the rest were based in metropolitan France.\n\nFrom 2012 onwards eight Beechcraft King Air 350s replaced the F406s.\n\nIn 2010 the customs had 3 offshore patrol boats, 18 coastal patrol boats, 18 surveillance patrol boats and 5 speed boats. The boats are assigned as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\nAs of 2008 the Customs service had 3255 vehicles (including 355 motorbikes).\n\nCustoms Agents are now armed with the 9 mm SIG Sauer SP 2022 pistols as the standard issued sidearm, a French custom-tailored variant of the SIG Sauer Pro. The pistol was ordered to replace the several revolvers in service.\n"}
{"id": "385732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=385732", "title": "Discouraged worker", "text": "Discouraged worker\n\nIn economics, a discouraged worker is a person of legal employment age who is not actively seeking employment or who does not find employment after long-term unemployment. This is usually because an individual has given up looking or has had no success in finding a job, hence the term \"discouraged\".\n\nIn other words, even if a person is still looking actively for a job, that person may have fallen out of the core statistics of unemployment rate after long-term unemployment and is therefore by default classified as \"discouraged\" (since the person does not appear in the core statistics of unemployment rate). In some cases, their belief may derive from a variety of factors including a shortage of jobs in their locality or line of work; discrimination for reasons such as age, race, sex, religion, sexual orientation, and disability; a lack of necessary skills, training, or experience; or, a chronic illness or disability.\n\nAs a general practice, discouraged workers, who are often classified as \"marginally attached to the labor force\", \"on the margins\" of the labor force, or as part of \"hidden unemployment\", are not considered part of the labor force, and are thus not counted in most official unemployment rates—which influences the appearance and interpretation of unemployment statistics. Although some countries offer alternative measures of unemployment rate, the existence of discouraged workers can be inferred from a low employment-to-population ratio.\n\nIn the United States, a discouraged worker is defined as a person not in the labor force who wants and is available for a job and who has looked for work sometime in the past 12 months (or since the end of his or her last job if a job was held within the past 12 months), but who is not currently looking because of real or perceived poor employment prospects.\n\nThe Bureau of Labor Statistics does not count discouraged workers as unemployed but rather refers to them as only \"marginally attached to the labor force\". This means that the officially measured unemployment captures so-called \"frictional unemployment\" and not much else. This has led some economists to believe that the actual unemployment rate in the United States is higher than what is officially reported while others suggest that discouraged workers voluntarily choose not to work. Nonetheless, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics has published the discouraged worker rate in alternative measures of labor underutilization under U-4 since 1994 when the most recent redesign of the CPS was implemented.\n\nThe United States Department of Labor first began tracking discouraged workers in 1967 and found 500,000 at the time. Today, In the United States, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics as of April 2009, there are 740,000 discouraged workers. There is an ongoing debate as to whether discouraged workers should be included in the official unemployment rate. Over time, it has been shown that a disproportionate number of young people, blacks, Hispanics, and men make up discouraged workers. Nonetheless, it is generally believed that the discouraged worker is underestimated because it does not include homeless people or those who have not looked for or held a job during the past twelve months and is often poorly tracked.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, the top five reasons for discouragement are the following:\n\nIn Canada, discouraged workers are often referred to as \"hidden unemployed\" because of their behavioral pattern, and are often described as \"on the margins\" of the labour force. Since the numbers of discouraged workers and of unemployed generally move in the same direction during the business cycle and the seasons (both tend to rise in periods of low\neconomic activity and vice versa), some economists have suggested that discouraged workers should be included in the unemployment numbers because of the close association.\n\nThe information on the number and composition of the discouraged worker group in Canada originates from two main sources. One source is the monthly Labour Force Survey (LFS), which identifies persons who looked for work in the past six months but who have since stopped searching. The other source is the Survey of Job Opportunities (SJO), which is much closer in design to the approach used in many other countries. In this survey, all those expressing a desire for work and who are available for work are counted, irrespective of their past job search activity.\n\nIn Canada, while discouraged workers were once less educated than \"average workers\", they now have better training and education but still tend to be concentrated in areas of high unemployment. Discouraged workers are not seeking a job for one of two reasons: labour market-related reasons (worker discouragement, waiting for recall to a former job or waiting for replies to earlier job search efforts) and personal and other reasons (illness or disability, personal or family responsibilities, going to school, and so on).\n\nUnemployment statistics published according to the ILO methodology may understate actual unemployment in the economy. The EU statistical bureau EUROSTAT started publishing figures on discouraged workers in 2010. According to the method used by EUROSTAT there are 3 categories that make up discouraged workers;\n\nThe first group are contained in the employed statistics of the European Labour Force Survey while the second two are contained in the inactive persons statistics of that survey.\nIn 2012 there were 9.2 million underemployed part-time workers, 2.3 million jobless persons seeking a job but not immediately available for work, and 8.9 million persons available for work but not seeking it, an increase of 0.6 million for underemployed and 0.3 million for the two groups making up discouraged workers.\n\nIf the discouraged workers and underemployed are added to official unemployed statistics Spain has the highest number real unemployed (8.4 Million), followed by Italy (6.4 Million), United Kingdom (5.5 Million), France (4.8 Million) and Germany (3.6 Million).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9915510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9915510", "title": "Electronic Staff Record", "text": "Electronic Staff Record\n\nThe Electronic Staff Record or ESR is an Oracle-based human resources and payroll database system currently used by 586 units of the National Health Service (NHS) in England and Wales to manage the payroll for 1.2 million NHS staff members. The Electronic Staff Record application is managed by IBM for the NHS.\n\nStarting in 2006, groups of around 50 units were implemented every two months. Implementation of ESR was completed in March 2008 when the last of twelve groups went live. \n\nThe implementation of ESR is one of the largest I.T. implementations in the world and replaced 29 payroll systems and approximately 38 human resources systems used throughout the NHS. The NHS is fifth largest employer in the world as of March 2012.\n\nThe ESR solution is based on Oracle's e-Business suite R12 which is certified to run with most Windows desktop operating systems currently supported by Microsoft. In general Oracle’s certification of third party client operating systems and browser products are aligned to the respective vendor’s lifetime support cycle.\n\nAccess to ESR is tested and supported on an ongoing basis against the following versions of software :-\n\nAccepting that user organisations may wish to run more up to date versions of these software components, they are recommended to run at least one “Base” workstation on the supported levels above. The Base workstation should then be used to replicate any ESR access issues, before an access related support call is logged on the ESR Service Desk. The ESR Support Team will then work with the site to resolve the access issue on the Base workstation.\n\n"}
{"id": "24780751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24780751", "title": "Feed additive", "text": "Feed additive\n\nA feed additive is a food supplement for farm animals that cannot get enough nutrients from regular meals. Such additives include vitamins, amino acids, fatty acids, and minerals. In some cases, if an animal does not have some specific nutrition in its diet, it may not grow properly. The nutritional values of animal feeds are influenced not only by their nutrient content, but also by many other factors. These include feed presentation, hygiene, digestibility, and effect on intestinal health. Even with all of the benefits of higher quality feed, most of a farm animal's diet still consists of maize, wheat, and soybean meal because of the higher costs of quality feed.\n\nAccording to EU Regulation 1831/2003, all feed additives to be placed on the market within the European Union have to undergo a thorough approval process. Products seeking approval for their use as feed additives are evaluated by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), the European Reference Laboratory, the European Commission and the member states. Evaluation criteria include safety for the animals, consumers and factory workers. For additives claiming an increase in zootechnical performance, sufficient empirical data must be presented to confirm those claims.\n\n"}
{"id": "10810155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10810155", "title": "Franciscan School of Theology", "text": "Franciscan School of Theology\n\nThe Franciscan School of Theology (FST) is a Roman Catholic graduate theological school at the Mission San Luis Rey de Francia in Oceanside, California. It is owned and operated by the Province of Saint Barbara of the Order of Friars Minor. FST is affiliated with the University of San Diego, a private Roman Catholic university in San Diego.\n\nThe Franciscan School of Theology is a small Roman Catholic proprietary school located at Mission San Luis Rey in Oceanside, California. FST is accredited by the Association of Theological Schools in the United States and Canada, and the Western Association of Schools and Colleges.\n\nThe school trains lay men and women of the Roman Catholic Church and offers two degrees:\n\n"}
{"id": "5293582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5293582", "title": "Get Up, Stand Up: The Story of Pop and Politics", "text": "Get Up, Stand Up: The Story of Pop and Politics\n\nGet Up, Stand Up: The Story of Pop and Politics is a 6x60 minutes documentary TV-series about the relationship between singers and politics in the USA, the UK, Germany and France from the 1960s until 2003. It was made in 2003 by Rudi Dolezal, Hannes Rossacher and Simon Witter as a joint production between German ZDF and the French-German culture channel Arte. It has since been shown by a number of other broadcasters in Europe, but also by Australia's ABC.\n\nThe series features interviews with well known singers and songwriters including Joan Baez, Tom Paxton, Bono, David Bowie, Johnny Cash, Daniel Cohn-Bendit, Bob Dylan, Ice-T, Bob Geldof, Willie Nelson, Roger Waters, Bruce Springsteen, Pete Seeger, and Neil Young.\n\nA much shorter, two-hour version, called Get Up, Stand Up: The Story of Pop and Protest, aired on PBS in September 2005, hosted and narrated by co-founder of Public Enemy Chuck D. The PBS version focuses mainly on the American history of protest songs.\n\nThe title is borrowed from the reggae protest song \"Get Up, Stand Up\" by Bob Marley and Peter Tosh.\n\n"}
{"id": "5152139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5152139", "title": "Grand Anti-Masonic Exhibition", "text": "Grand Anti-Masonic Exhibition\n\nThe Grand Anti-Masonic Exhibition (, ) was the name of an antisemitic exhibition that was opened on 22 October 1941 during World War II in Belgrade, the capital of the Nazi Germany-established Militärverwaltung in occupied Serbia.\n\nFinanced by the Germans and opened with the support of collaborationist leader Milan Nedić, it featured an estimated 200,000 brochures, 108,000 copies of nine different types of envelopes, 100,000 flyers, 60,000 copies of twenty different posters, and 176 different propaganda films that had previously been seen during The Eternal Jew exhibitions in Munich and Vienna in 1937. Despite nominally being anti-Masonic, its purpose was to promote antisemitic ideas and intensify hatred of Jews. Certain displays were intended to dehumanize the Jewish people and justify their extermination by the Germans. Others resembled anti-Jewish propaganda from the period of the Russian Empire and repeated the claims put forward in the book \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\". The exhibition was organized by former members of the fascist movement known as Zbor and sought to expose an alleged Judeo-Masonic/Communist conspiracy for world domination through several displays featuring antisemitic propaganda.\n\nFour stamps commemorating the exhibition were issued by Serbian collaborationist authorities in January 1942, depicting Judaism as being the source of all evil in the world and portraying a \"strong and victorious Serbia triumphing over the plot of world domination.\" An estimated 80,000 people, including collaborationist leader Milan Nedić and some of his ministers, visited the exhibition prior to its closure on 19 January 1942.\n\nOn 6 April 1941, Axis forces invaded the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. Poorly equipped and poorly trained, the Royal Yugoslav Army was quickly defeated. The country was then dismembered, with the Wehrmacht establishing the Territory of the Military Commander in Serbia under a government of military occupation. The territory included most of Serbia proper, with the addition of the northern part of Kosovo (around Kosovska Mitrovica), and the Banat. It was the only area of occupied Yugoslavia in which the Germans established a military government. This was done to exploit the key rail and riverine transport routes that passed through it, and because of its valuable resources, particularly non-ferrous metals. The Military Commander in Serbia appointed Serbian puppet governments to \"carry on administrative chores under German direction and supervision\". The Germans also promoted the fascist Yugoslav National Movement (\"Zbor\"), led by Dimitrije Ljotić.\n\nMeanwhile, the extreme Croat nationalist and fascist Ante Pavelić, who had been in exile in Benito Mussolini's Italy, was appointed \"Poglavnik\" (leader) of an Ustaše-led Croatian state – the Independent State of Croatia (often called the NDH, from the ). The NDH combined almost all of modern-day Croatia, all of modern-day Bosnia and Herzegovina and parts of modern-day Serbia into an \"Italian-German quasi-protectorate.\" NDH authorities, led by the Ustaše militia, implemented genocidal policies against the Serb, Jewish and Romani population living within the borders of the new state. As a result, two resistance movements emerged in Yugoslavia – the Serb royalist Chetniks, led by Colonel Draža Mihailović, and the multi-ethnic, Communist Yugoslav Partisans, led by Josip Broz Tito.\n\nOn 29 August 1941, the Germans appointed the Government of National Salvation (, Влада Националног Спаса) under General Milan Nedić, to replace the short-lived Commissioner Administration. Nedić, a pre-war politician, believed since the defeat of France in the 1940 that the Germans would emerge as the winners in World War II and sought to protect the Serbian people from German retaliation by cooperating with the Axis. Resistance to the Germans emerged immediately and caused the German High Command to declare that a hundred Serbs would be executed for every German soldier killed and fifty Serbs would be executed for every German soldier wounded. By October 1941, the Germans executed more than 25,000 Serbs in various revenge killings throughout the occupied territory.\n\nUpon capturing Belgrade in April, the Germans ordered the city's 12,000 Jews to report themselves to the occupational authorities. Laws were then passed which prohibited Jews from various activities in the occupied territory, ranging from going to restaurants to riding streetcars. Jews were ordered to wear identifying armbands on which the word \"Jew\" () was painted in black letters. Some Serbs accused the Jews of being behind the Yugoslav coup d'état which resulted in the Axis invasion of Yugoslavia and Nedić went so far as to call the Partisans a \"criminal Jewish gang.\"\n\nThe Grand Anti-Masonic Exhibition opened in Belgrade on 22 October 1941 at 8 Ilija Garašanin Street. The Belgrade exhibit was organized by former members of Zbor and sought to expose an alleged Judeo-Masonic/Communist conspiracy for world domination through several displays featuring antisemitic propaganda. It was funded by the Germans and opened with Nedić's support. Despite nominally being anti-Masonic, its purpose was to promote antisemitic ideas and intensify hatred of Jews. Certain displays were intended to dehumanize the Jewish people and justify their extermination by the Germans. Others resembled anti-Jewish propaganda from the period of the Russian Empire and repeated the claims put forward in the book \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\". Besides the exhibits themselves, large amounts of propaganda material were prepared. An estimated 200,000 brochures, 108,000 copies of nine different types of envelopes, 100,000 flyers, 60,000 copies of twenty different posters, 176 propaganda films and four postage stamps designed specially for the occasion were presented to visitors. The posters in particular have been described by historian Raphael Israeli as \"[giving] a sense of the vile flavour of the exhibition and the theme of Jewish dominance.\" In general, the exhibition itself has been deemed \"bizarre\" and \"heavily antisemitic\" by historians. Author Philip J. Cohen describes it as \"vicious anti-Jewish propaganda.\"\n\nThe organizers of the exhibition created advertisements that read: \"This concept of exhibition will be unique not only in Serbia and the Balkans, not only in southeastern Europe and Europe, but in the world.\" However, the images depicted were not unique as they had been previously seen in 1937 during The Eternal Jew exhibitions in Munich and Vienna. Serbian collaborationist newspapers such as \"Obnova\" (Renewal) and \"Naša Borba\" (Our Struggle) wrote positively of the exhibit, declaring Jews to be \"the ancient enemies of the Serbian people\" and that \"Serbs should not wait for the Germans to begin the extermination of the Jews.\" \"Obnova\" reported that 20,000 people had visited the exhibit by 27 October.\n\nIn January 1942, Serbian collaborationist authorities issued stamps commemorating the exhibition. The stamps portrayed a \"strong and victorious Serbia triumphing over the plot of world domination\". Juxtaposing Serbian and Jewish symbols, the stamps depicted Judaism as being the source of all evil in the world while promoting the Serbian humiliation and violent subjugation of the Jews. They also ensured that every time a person mailed a letter they would be reminded that Jews, Masons and Communists were the supposed enemies of the Serbian people. The exhibition lasted until 19 January 1942, when it was closed. By then, it had been visited by an estimated 80,000 people, including Nedić and some of his ministers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4472050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4472050", "title": "Holberg, British Columbia", "text": "Holberg, British Columbia\n\nHolberg (pop: 35) is a community on northern Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada. The community was established in the early 1900s by Danish settlers who named their new home in honour of Baron Ludwig Holberg, the great Danish playwright.\n\nHolberg is on the long, winding, unpaved road to Cape Scott Provincial Park, San Josef Bay and Winter Harbour.\n\nNearby Ronning Gardens, an anomaly in the west coast temperate rainforest, was created by Norwegian settler Bernt Ronning around 1910.\n\nHolberg has always been noted for logging and copious amounts of precipitation.\n\nDuring the Cold War, the Royal Canadian Air Force established RCAF Station Holberg, a Pinetree Line radar base.\n\nUp on one of the roads of Holberg is a small school called \"San Josef Elementary\".\n\nHolberg is serviced by an AM radio station, CFHG 1490. CFHG began operations on April 16, 1963 from studios at CFS Holberg. The station primarily aired the programs of Vancouver CBC Radio station CBU, but it also aired local programs produced by volunteer staff at the station. CFHG, which produced up to 28 hours of local programming per week in the beginning, gradually increased its local programming content to as much as 68 hours a week by 1984. When CFS Holberg closed and was mostly dismantled in 1990 due to budget cuts, CFHG was sold to Western Forest Products Ltd. and became a community-owned full rebroadcaster of CBU. Like other CBC Radio One repeaters on Vancouver Island, CFHG now rebroadcasts CBCV-FM Victoria.\n\nVisitors to Holberg typically pass through fabulous natural parks that are made accessible via logging roads. With the exception of Winter Harbour, land access to San Josef Bay, Raft Cove Provincial Park, and Cape Scott Provincial Park is all by way of Holberg. The town itself carries its own interesting history and is worthy of a quick stop to see the remnants of what was once the world's largest floating town.\n\nDespite the very low population, the Scarlet Ibis Pub remains in operation, providing a relaxing, family friendly stop on the way to and from the surrounding destinations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8922110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8922110", "title": "Intergenerational equity", "text": "Intergenerational equity\n\nIntergenerational equity in economic, psychological, and sociological contexts, is the concept or idea of fairness or justice between generations. The concept can be applied to fairness in dynamics between children, youth, adults and seniors, in terms of treatment and interactions. It can also be applied to fairness between generations currently living and generations yet to be born.\n\nConversations about intergenerational equity occur across several fields. It is often discussed in public economics, especially with regard to transition economics, social policy, and government budget-making. Many cite the growing U.S. national debt as an example of intergenerational inequity, as future generations will shoulder the consequences. Intergenerational equity is also explored in environmental concerns, including sustainable development, global warming and climate change. The continued depletion of natural resources that has occurred in the past century will likely be a significant burden for future generations. Intergenerational equity is also discussed with regard to standards of living, with the focus falling on inequities in the living standards experienced by people of different ages and generations. Intergenerational equity issues also arise in the arenas of elderly care and social justice.\n\nSince the first recorded debt issuance in Sumaria in 1796 BC, one of the penalties for failure to repay a loan has been debt bondage. In some instances, this repayment of financial debt with labor included the debtor's children, essentially condemning the debtor family to perpetual slavery. About one millennium after written debt contracts were created, the concept of debt forgiveness appears in the Old Testament, called Jubilee (Leviticus 25), and in Greek law when Solon introduces Seisachtheia. Both of these historical examples of debt forgiveness involved freeing children from slavery caused by their parents' debt.\n\nWhile slavery is illegal in all countries today, North Korea has a policy called, \"Three Generations of Punishment\" which has been documented by Shin Dong-hyuk and used as a moral paragon of punishing children for parents' mistakes. Stanley Druckenmiller and Geoffrey Canada have applied this concept (calling it \"Generational Theft\") to the large increase in government debt being left by the Baby Boomers to their children.\n\nIn the context of institutional investment management, intergenerational equity is the principle that an endowed institution's spending rate must not exceed its after-inflation rate of compound return, so that investment gains are spent equally on current and future constituents of the endowed assets. This concept was originally set out in 1974 by economist James Tobin, who wrote that, \"The trustees of endowed institutions are the guardians of the future against the claims of the present. Their task in managing the endowment is to preserve equity among generations.\"\nin terms of an economical context. \"Intergenerational equity\" refers to relationship that a particular family has on resources. An example is the forest-dwelling civilians in Papua New Guinea, who for generations have lived in a certain part of the forest which thus becomes their land. The adult population sell the trees for palm oil to make money. If they cannot make a sustainable development on managing their resources, their next or future generations will lose this resource.\n\nOne debate about the national debt relates to intergenerational equity. For example, if one generation is receiving the benefit of government programs or employment enabled by deficit spending and debt accumulation, to what extent does the resulting higher debt impose risks and costs on future generations? There are several factors to consider:\n\nEconomist Paul Krugman wrote in March 2013 that by neglecting public investment and failing to create jobs, we are doing far more harm to future generations than merely passing along debt: \"Fiscal policy is, indeed, a moral issue, and we should be ashamed of what we’re doing to the next generation's economic prospects. But our sin involves investing too little, not borrowing too much.\" Young workers face high unemployment and studies have shown their income may lag throughout their careers as a result. Teacher jobs have been cut, which could affect the quality of education and competitiveness of younger Americans.\n\nAustralian politician Christine Milne made similar statements in the lead up to the 2014 Carbon Price Repeal Bill, naming the Liberal National Party (elected to parliament in 2013) and inherently its ministers, as intergenerational thieves; her statement was based on the party's attempts to roll back progressive carbon tax policy and the impact this would have on the intergenerational equity of future generations.\n\nThe U.S. Social Security system has provided a greater net benefit to those who reached retirement closest to the first implementation of the system. The system is unfunded, meaning the elderly who retired right after the implementation of the system did not pay any taxes into the social security system, but reaped the benefits. Professor Michael Doran estimates that cohorts born previous to 1938 will receive more in benefits than they pay in taxes, while the reverse is true to cohorts born after. Further, he admits that the long-term insolvency of Social Security will likely lead to be further unintentional intergenerational transfers. However, Broad concedes that other benefits have been introduced into U.S. society via the welfare system, like Medicare and government-financed medical research, that benefit current and future elderly cohorts.\n\nIntergenerational equity is often referred to in environmental contexts, as younger age cohorts will disproportionately experience the negative consequences of environmental damage. Two perspectives can be taken on what should be done to ameliorate environmental intergenerational equity: the \"weak sustainability\" perspective and the \"strong sustainability\" perspective. From the \"weak\" perspective, intergenerational equity would be achieved if losses to the environment that future generations face were offset by gains in economic progress. From the \"strong\" perspective, no amount of economic progress can justify leaving future generations with a degraded environment. According to Professor Sharon Beder, the \"weak\" perspective is undermined by a lack of knowledge of the future, as we do not know which intrinsically valuable resources will not be able to be replaced by technology. We also do not know to what extent environmental damage is irreversible. Further, more harm cannot be avoided to many species of plants and animals. Other scholars contest Beder's point of view. Professor Wilfred Beckerman insists that \"strong sustainability\" is \"morally repugnant\", particularly when it overrides other moral concerns about those alive today. Beckerman insists that the optimal choice for society is to prioritize the welfare of current generations above future generations. He suggests placing a discount rate on outcomes for future generations when accounting for generational equity.\n\nIn September 2015, a group of youth environmental activists filed to sue the U.S. federal government for insufficiently protecting against climate change. Their statement emphasized the disproportionate cost of climate-related damage younger generations would bear. It stated “Youth Plaintiffs represent the youngest living generation, beneficiaries of the public trust. Youth Plaintiffs have a substantial, direct, and immediate interest in protecting the atmosphere, other vital natural resources, their quality of life, their property interests, and their liberties. They also have an interest in ensuring that the climate system remains stable enough to secure their constitutional rights to life, liberty, and property, rights that depend on a livable Future.” In November 2016, the case was allowed to go to trial after US District Court Judge Ann Aiken denied the federal government’s motion to dismiss the case. In her opinion and order, she said, “Exercising my ‘reasoned judgment,’ I have no doubt that the right to a climate system capable of sustaining human life is fundamental to a free and ordered society.\" As of April 2017, the trial was put on hold with a stay. The Ninth Circuit heard oral arguments on the stay in November of 2017 and a ruling is expected in February of 2018.\n\nDiscussions of intergenerational equity in standards of living have referenced differences between people of different ages as well as differences between people of different generations. Two perspectives on intergenerational equity in living standards have been distinguished by Rice, Temple and McDonald. The first perspective – a \"cross-sectional\" perspective – focuses on living standards at a particular point in time and how these living standards vary between people of different ages. The relevant issue is the degree to which, at a particular point in time, people of different ages enjoy equal living standards. The second perspective – a \"cohort\" perspective – focuses on living standards over a lifetime and how these living standards vary between people of different generations. For intergenerational equity, the relevant issue becomes the degree to which people of different generations enjoy equal living standards over their lifetimes. Three indicators of intergenerational equity in economic flows, such as income, have been proposed by D'Albis, Badji, El Mekkaoui and Navaux. Their first indicator originates from a cross-sectional perspective and describes the relative situation of an age group (retirees) with respect to the situation of another age group (younger people). Their second indicator originates from a cohort perspective and compares the standards of living of successive generations at the same age. D'Albis, Badji, El Mekkaoui and Navaux's third indicator is a combination of the two previous criteria and is both an inter-age indicator and an intergenerational indicator.\n\nIn Australia, notable equality has been achieved in living standards, as measured by consumption, among people between the ages of 20 and 75 years. Substantial inequalities exist, however, between different generations, with older generations experiencing lower living standards in real terms at particular ages than younger generations. One way to illustrate these inequalities is to look at how long different generations took to achieve a level of consumption of $30,000 per year (2009-10 Australian dollars). At one extreme, people born in 1935 achieved this level of consumption when they were roughly 50 years of age, on average. At the other extreme, Millennials born in 1995 had achieved this level of consumption by the time they were around 10 years of age.\n\nConsiderations such as this have led some scholars to argue that standards of living have tended to increase generation over generation in most countries, as development and technology have progressed. When taking this into account, younger generations may have inherent privileges over older generations, which may offset the redistribution of wealth towards older generations.\n\nSome scholars consider the changing cultural trends that move society away from the norm of adult children caring for elderly parents to be an intergenerational equity issue. The older generation had to care for their parents, as well as their own children, while the younger generation must only care for their children. This is especially true in countries with weak social security systems. Professor Sang-Hyop Lee describes the presence of this phenomenon in South Korea, explaining that the current elderly now have the highest poverty rate among any developed country. He notes that it is particularly frustrating because the elderly usually invest a lot in their children's education, and they now feel betrayed.\n\nOther scholars express different opinions on which generation is truly disadvantaged by elderly care. Professor Steven Wisensale describes the burden on current working age adults in developed economies, who must care for more elderly parents and relatives for a longer period of time. This problem is exacerbated by the increasing involvement of women in the workforce, and by the dropping fertility rate, leaving the burden for caring for parents, as well as aunts, uncles, and grandparents, on fewer children.\n\nConversations about intergenerational equity are also relevant to social justice arenas as well, where issues such as health care are equal in importance to youth rights and youth voice are pressing and urgent. There is a strong interest within the legal community towards the application of intergenerational equity in law.\n\nGeneration Squeeze is a Canadian not-for-profit organization that advocates for intergenerational equity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47589418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47589418", "title": "Islamization of Xinjiang", "text": "Islamization of Xinjiang\n\nThe historical area of what is modern day Xinjiang consisted of the distinct areas of the Tarim Basin (also known as Altishahr) and Dzungaria, and was populated by Indo-European Tocharians and Saka peoples, who practiced Buddhism. They came under Chinese rule in the Han dynasty as the Protectorate of the Western Regions due to wars between the Han dynasty and the Xiongnu and again in the Tang dynasty as the Protectorate General to Pacify the West due to wars between the Tang dynasty and the Turkic Khaganates. The Tang dynasty withdrew its control of Xinjiang in the Protectorate General to Pacify the West and the Four Garrisons of Anxi after the An Lushan Rebellion, after which the area was subjected to Islamification at the hands of Turkic Muslims.\n\nThe Tarim Basin, populated by the Indo-European Tocharian and Saka, became the place of settlement by two different Turkic Kingdoms, the Buddhist Turkic Uyghur Kingdom of Qocho and the Muslim Turkic Karluk Kara-Khanid Khanate.\n\nThe Turfan and Tarim Basins were populated by speakers of Tocharian languages, with \"Europoid\" mummies found in the region. The oases were populated by Iranian and Tocharian language speakers. Different historians suggest that either the Sakas or Tokharians made up the Yuezhi people who lived in Xinjiang. The northern Tarim Basin is where Tokharian language records were found.\n\nThe inhabitants of the Tarim Basin consisted of Buddhist Indo-European, divided between Tocharians and Eastern Iranian Sakas. The influx of Turkic migrants was triggered by the collapse of the Mongolia-based Uyghur Khaganate which sent Buddhist Turkic Uyghurs migrating down into the Turfan and Tarim Basins of Xinjiang and resulted in the extincation of the Tocharians. Muslim Turkic Karluks from Transoxania in Central Asia settled in the Tarim Basin from the west and dealt the final blow to the last Indo-European Buddhists, the Saka Kingdom of Khotan, Turkicising them and converting them to Islam.\n\nThe discovery of the Tarim mummies has created a stir in the Turkic-speaking Uighur population of the region, who claim the area has always belonged to their culture, while it was not until the 10th century when the Uighurs are said by scholars to have moved to the region from Central Asia. American Sinologist Victor H. Mair claims that \"the earliest mummies in the Tarim Basin were exclusively Caucasoid, or Europoid\" with \"east Asian migrants arriving in the eastern portions of the Tarim Basin around 3,000 years ago\", while Mair also notes that it was not until 842 that the Uighur peoples settled in the area.\n\nDuring the Han dynasty, the Tocharians and Sakas of Xinjiang came under a Chinese protectorate in 60 BC, with the Chinese protecting the Tocharian and Saka city states from the nomadic Xiongnu who were based in Mongolia, and during the Tang dynasty they once again became a protectorate of China with China protecting the Tocharian and Saka city states against the Turkic Khaganate and the Turkic Uyghur Khaganate.\n\nArab sources claim that first recorded incursion into the Tarim Basin by an Islamic force is the alleged attack on Kashghar by Qutayba ibn Muslim in 715 but modern historians entirely dismiss this claim.\n\nThe Tang dynasty Chinese defeated the Arab Umayyad invaders at the Battle of Aksu (717). The Arab Umayyad commander Al-Yashkuri and his army fled to Tashkent after they were defeated.\n\nTang China lost control of Xinjiang after it was forced to withdraw its garrisons during the An Lushan Rebellion. During the rebellion China received aid from the Uyghur Khaganate in crushing An Lushan's rebels, however, multiple provocations by the Uyghurs such as selling bad quality horses to China, practicing usury when lending to Chinese, and sheltering Uyghurs who committed murder resulted in a major deterioration in relations between China and the Uyghur Khaganate. Tang China then allied with the Yenisei Kirghiz and defeated and destroyed the Uyghur Khaganate in a war, triggering the collapse of the Uyghur Khaganate which caused Uyghurs to migrate from their original lands in Mongolia southwards into Xinjiang.\n\nProtected by the Taklamakan Desert from steppe nomads, elements of Tocharian culture survived until the 7th century, when the arrival of Turkic immigrants from the collapsing Uyghur Khaganate of modern-day Mongolia began to absorb the Tocharians to form the modern-day Uyghur ethnic group.\n\nProfessor James A. Millward described the original Uyghurs as physically Mongoloid, giving as an example the images in Bezeklik at temple 9 of the Uyghur patrons, until they began to mix with the Tarim Basin's eastern Iranian inhabitants. Buddhist Uyghurs created the Bezeklik murals.\n\nThe modern Uyghurs are now a mixed group of Mongoloid and Caucasian.\n\nThe Iranic Saka peoples originally inhabited Yarkand and Kashgar in ancient times, and were ruled by the Buddhist Saka Kingdom of Khotan when the first major Turkic incursions into the area began. The Saka Kings were still culturally-influenced by the Buddhist homeland of Northern India, with their rulers adopting Hindu names. The Buddhist entitites of Khotan and Dunghuang (in present-day Gansu) had a tight-knit partnership, with intermarriage between Dunhuang and Khotan's rulers and Dunhuang's Mogao grottos and Buddhist temples being funded and sponsored by the Khotan royals, whose likenesses were drawn in the Mogao grottoes. The rulers of Khotan were aware of the menace they faced since they arranged for the Mogao grottoes to paint a growing number of divine figures along with themselves. By the time the Turkic Uyghur (Buddhist) and the Turkic Kara-Khanid (Muslim) invaded, Khotan was the only state in the area that had not come under Turkic rule.\n\nIt was during the Karakhanid reign that Buddhism lost territory to Islam in the Kashgar area. A long war ensued between Islamic Kashgar and Buddhist Khotan which eventually ended in the conquest of Khotan by Kashgar. Many tales emerged about the Kara-Khanid ruling family's war against the Buddhists, and it is said that either Satok Bughra Khan's nephew or his grandson Ali Arslan was slain by the Buddhists during the war. A shrine dedicated to Ali Arslan or Sultan Arslan Boghra who was killed in the campaign against Khoton was the most popular shrine of the region. His body was buried on the field of battle at Ordam Padshah, to the east of Yangi Hissar, but his head is preserved at a shrine in the Dolat Bagh, near Kashgar. Satok Boghra Khan's last campaign was undertaken against Turfan, where in 993 he fell ill and whence he was carried back, a dying man, to Kashgar. His son and successor, Hasan, is known to history as having ended the Samanid dynasty by the capture of Abdul Malik. A few years later both Hasan and his brother were killed by the Princes of Khotan.\n\nIn what proved to be a pivotal moment in the Islamicisation of the Tarim Basin, the Karakhanid leader Yusuf Qadir Khan conquered Khotan around 1006. After the occupation by the Karakhanids, Turki became the universal language. The oldest Kashgar book which has reached us, and which dates from 1068, is written in a pure Turki dialect.\n\nThe Taẕkirah is a genre of literature written about Sufi Muslim saints in Altishahr. Written sometime in the period from 1700-1849, the Eastern Turkic language (modern Uyghur) \" Taẕkirah of the Four Sacrificed Imams\" provides an account of the Muslim Kara-Khanid war against the Khotanese Buddhists. The \"Taẕkirah\" uses the story of the Four Imams as a device to frame the chronicle, the Four Imams being a group of Islamic scholars from Mada'in city (possibly in modern-day Iraq), who travelled to help the Islamic conquest of Khotan, Yarkand, and Kashgar by the Kara-Khanid leader Yusuf Qadir Khan. The legend of the conquest of Khotan is also given in the hagiology known as the Tazkirat or \"Chronicles of Boghra\". Extracts from the Tazkiratu'l-Bughra on the Muslim war against the \"infidel\" Khotan was translated by Robert Barkley Shaw.\n\nThe shrines of Sufi Saints are revered in Altishahr as one of Islam's essential components and the tazkirah literature reinforced the sacredness of the shrines. It is even written in the \"Tazkirah of the Four Sacrificed Imams\" that \"...those who doubt Their Holinesses the Imams will leave this world without faith, and on Judgement Day their faces will be black\"\"\" . The fervor of the Qarakhand elite meant that in many cases, the ancient Chinese, Tocharian, Sogdian, Sanskrit, and Khotanese language texts dealing with Christianity, Manichaeanism, and Buddhism which contain important historical information were more or less ignored as sources of information for the region.\n\nAfter the Khotanese \"infidel Buddhists\" killed Imam Shakir Padshah, a \"Pigeons' Sanctuary\" shrine arose in Khotan where pigeons \"believed to be the offspring of a pair of doves which miraculously appeared from the heart of Imam Shakir Padshah\" are taken care of and fed by pilgrims, this shrine was visited by Sir Aurel Stein. The conflict in which Xinijang's Buddhist kingdoms were conquered are regarded as holy Jihad and the shehit (martyrs of Islam) who died in action in the wars are revered and worshiped at tombs called mazar by pilgrims in the present day. The Khotanese Buddhists killing of the martyr Imam Asim led to his grave being worshiped in a massive annual ceremony called the \"Imam Asim Khan festival\". The extinction of the writing and language of the absorbed Khotanese Indo European Eastern Iranics occurred at the hands of the Turks. Khotan was defeated and annexed by the war started by Kadir Khan Yusuf of the Karakhanids.\n\nMichael Dillon wrote that the 1000s-1100s Islam-Buddhist war are still recalled in the forms of the Khotan Imam Asim Sufi shrine celebration and other Sufi holy site celebrations. Bezeklik's \"Thousand Buddha Caves\" are an example of the religiously motivated vandalism against portraits of religious and human figures. Anti portrait Muslims had Buddhist portraits obliterated during the wars over hundreds of years in which Buddhism was replaced by Islam. Cherrypicking of history of Xinjiang with the intention of projecting an image of irreligiousity or piousness of Islam in Uyghur culture has been done by people with agendas. Muslim works such as Ḥudūd al-ʿĀlam contained anti-Buddhist rhetoric and polemic against Buddhist Khotan, aimed at \"dehumanizing\" the Khotanese Buddhists, and the Muslims Kara-Khanids conquered Khotan just 26 years following the completion of Ḥudūd al-ʿĀlam. Muslims gouged the eyes of Buddhist murals along Silk Road caves and Kashgari recorded in his Turkic dictionary an anti-Buddhist poem/folk song.\n\nSultan Satuq Bughra Khan and his son directed endeavors to proselytize Islam among the Turks and engage in military conquests. Buddhist temples and other non-Muslim buildings were razed by the Karakhanids once they converted to Islam in Kashgar. In 970 the Karakanids at first lost Kashgar to the Khotanese after a Khotanese military victory under Khotanese King Visa Sura who sent a \"dancing elephant\" to China along with a tool made of steel and a silver case with a cup, from the war booty seized in battle from the Karakhanids in addition to vessels, tools, leather armor, and jade as tribute, along with a letter in a royal edict to give the reason why the tribute was sent behind schedule and not on time to China, since the Khotanese just barely beat the Karakhanids out of Kashgar to its city limits and were holding it with great difficulty. From 970 the Karakhanids continued to fight the Khotanese until sometime before 1006 in the eventual conquest of Khotan by the Yusuf Qadir Khan, the Karakhanid leader. The Muslim attacks likely were the cause of requests for aid when China saw the arrival of multiple Khotanese diplomatic delegations. Defense assistance was requested of the Cao Guiyi rulers of Dunhuang after the Muslims were defeated by Visa Sura, Khotanese King in 970. After the victory over Kashghar Muslims at the hands of the Khotanese an elephant was sent as tribute by Khotan in 971 to Song dynasty China. After the Qara Khanid Turkic Muslims defeated the Khotanese under Yusuf Qadir Khan at or before 1006, China received a tribute mission in 1009 from the Muslims. The Encyclopaedia Sinica, by Samuel Couling says : \"After Chang Ch'ien's mission, Khotan sent an embassy to China... Till the end of the eighth century Chinese political influence remained potent, but then Tibet ended it, and Chinese annals are silent about Khotan for a century and a half. Then embassies were sent, probably seeking help against the Mohammedans, who, however, conquered the district at the end of the tenth century.\" The Buddhist Yutian (Khotan) experienced waves of jihads unleashed upon them by the Karakhanid leader Musa, the son of Satuk Bughra Khan although the jihads were unsuccessful, and the Khotanese managed to seize Kashgar after forcibly converted to Islam Buddhists revolted against the Karakhands in 969 the capital of the Karakhanids was temporarily seized by the Khotanese. In Yengisar in 998 the Yutian (Khotanese) managed to seize Kashgar and kill the Karakhanid leader Hasan in battle, striking the Karakhanids while the Karakhanids were busy fighting the Samanids. Buddhist Khotan was finally conquered when 140,000 mujahideen under Karakhanid leader Yusuf Kadir Khan attacked them. After 1006 when the Muslims won against the Khotanese they shut down Cave 17 in Dunhuang. The Islamic conquest of Khotan led to alarm in the east and Dunhuang's Cave 17, which contained Khotanese literary works, was closed shut possibly after its caretakers heard that Khotan's Buddhist buildings were razed by the Muslims, the Buddhist religion had suddenly ceased to exist in Khotan. The Guiyi circuit shut down the Khotanese libraries at Dunhuang after Khotan came under assault by Karakhanid Muslims. Cao Yuanzhong received a message from the King of Khotan in 970 that Khotan was under assault by Kashgari Muslim Karakhanids. The shutting down may have occurred after the Buddhists came under assault by the Muslims at Khotan. Buddhism was destroyed totally in the sanguine, decades long war in Khotan by the Karakhanids.\n\nHenri Cordier wrote in \"The book of Ser Marco Polo, the Venetian, concerning the Kingdoms and Marvels of the East\" : \"The Buddhist Government of Khotan was destroyed by Boghra Khán (about 980—990); it was temporarily restored by the Buddhist Kutchluk Khán, chief of the Na'i'mans, who came from the banks of the Ili, destroyed the Mahomedan dynasty of Boghra Khán (1209). but was in his turn subjugated by Chinghiz Khan. The only Christian monument discovered in Khotan is a bronze cross brought back by Grenard (iii. pp. 134—135); see also Devéria, 'Notes d'Épigraphie Mongole,' p. 80.—H. C. \"\n\nA Buddhist revival occurred in the Tangut Western Xia state since Muslims placed strain on the oases states in Central Asia since before that most support for Buddhism came from Khotan. The Kara khanids were vanquishing the Khotan Buddhist state so the Western Xia Tangut state instead became the safe haven when Muslims attacked Indian Buddhist monks and drove them out of their lands.\n\nIn 1006, the Muslim Kara-Khanid ruler Yusuf Kadir (Qadir) Khan of Kashgar conquered Khotan, ending Khotan's existence as an independent state. The Karakhanid Turkic writer Mahmud al-Kashgari recorded a short Turkic language poem about the conquest:\n\nRobert Dankoff has judged the poem to refer to Khotan's conquest by the Qarakhanids even though the text in Kashgari's work says it was against Uyghurs. Idols of \"infidels\" were subjected to desecration by being defecated upon by Muslims when the \"infidel\" country was conquered by the Muslims, according to Muslim tradition. It was written by Kashgari that - \"it is customary for the Muslims, when they captured a country of infidels, to defecate on the heads of their idols in order to profane them.\". Besides the jihad against Yutian (Kingdom of Khotan), the Uygur Karakhoja Kingdom (Kingdom of Qocho) was also subjected to Jihad in which Buddhist temples were razed and Islam spread by the Karakhanid ruler Sultan Satuq Bughra Khan. The '\"Compendium of the Turkic Dialects\" by Kashgari, included among the infidels, the Uighurs. It was written \"just as the thorn should be cut at its root, so the Uighur should be struck on the eye\" by Kashgari, who viewed them as untrustworthy and noted that Muslim Turks used the derogatory name \"Tat\" against the Buddhist Uighurs whom Kashgari described as \"infidels\". The identities of \"Buddhist\" and \"Uyghur\" were intertwined with each other.\n\nThe Buddhist Uighurs were subjected to an attack by the Muslim Turks and this was described in Mahmud Kashgari's work. Mahmud Kaşgari's works contained poetry stanzas and verses which described fighting between Buddhist Uighurs (Buddhist Turks) and Muslim Karakahnids (Muslim Turks). Uighur Buddhist temples were desecrated and Uighur cities were raided and Minglaq province across the river Ili was the target of the conquest against the Buddhist Uighur by the Muslim Karakhanids as described in 5-6 stanzas of Kashgari's work.\n\nMahmud Kashgari insulted the Uyghur Buddhists as \"Uighur dogs\" and called them \"Tats\", which referred to the \"Uighur infidels\" according to the Tuxsi and Taghma, while other Turks called Persians \"tat\". While Kashgari displayed a different attitude towards the Turks diviners beliefs and \"national customs\", he expressed towards Buddhism a hatred in his Diwan where he wrote the verse cycle on the war against Uighur Buddhists. Buddhist origin words like toyin (a cleric or priest) and Burxān or Furxan (meaning Buddha, acquiring the generic meaning of \"idol\" in the Turkic language of Kashgari) had negative connotations to Muslim Turks.\n\nKashgari claimed that the Prophet assisted in a miraculous event where 700,000 Yabāqu infidels were defeated by 40,000 Muslims led by Arslān Tegīn claiming that fires shot sparks from gates located on a green mountain towards the Yabāqu. The Yabaqu were a Turkic people.\n\nThe non-Muslim Turks worship of Tengri was mocked and insulted by the Muslim Kashgari, who wrote about a verse referring to them - \"The Infidels - May God destroy them!\"\n\nThe wars against the Buddhist, Shamanist, and Manichean Uighurs were considered a Jihad by the Kara-Khanids.\n\nThe Uyghur state in eastern Xinjiang had tolerated Christianity and Buddhism but had opposed Islam.\n\nThe Imams and soldiers who died in the battles against the Uyghur Buddhists and Khotan Buddhist Kingdom during the Tarim Basin's Islamification at the hands of the Karakhanids are revered as saints.\n\nIt was possible the Muslims drove some Uighur Buddhist monks towards taking asylum in the Western Xia dynasty.\n\nTombs of the saints are called Mazars.\n\nIn the 1390s, the Chagatai ruler Khizr Khwaja launched a holy war against the Kingdom of Qocho and Turfan, which were viewed as part of \"Khitay\" which was a name for China. Although Khizr Khwaja claimed to have converted to these kingdoms to Islam, the conversion was more gradual. Travellers passing through the area in 1420 remarked on the rich Buddhist temples, and only after 1450 were substantial numbers of mosques reported. As a consequence of the imposition of Islam, the city of Jiaohe was abandoned in the 15th century.\n\nKara Del was a Mongolian ruled and Uighur populated Buddhist Kingdom. The Muslim Chagatai Khan Mansur invaded and used force to make the population convert to Islam. It was reported that between Khitay and Khotan the Sarigh Uyghur tribes who were \"impious\" resided, and they were targeted for ghazat (holy war) by Mansur Khan following 1516.\n\nAfter being converted to Islam, the descendants of the previously Buddhist Uyghurs in Turfan failed to retain memory of their ancestral legacy and falsely believed that the \"infidel Kalmuks\" (Dzungars) were the ones who built Buddhist monuments in their area. Buddhist influences still remain among the Turfan Muslims. Since Islam reached them much after Altishahr, personal names of un-Islamic Old Uyghur origin are still used in Qumul and Turfan while people in Altishahr use mostly Islamic names of Persian and Arabic origin.\n\nThe mujahideen of the Islamic Chagatai Khanate conquered the Uyghur and Hami was purged of the Buddhist religion which was replaced with Islam. The Islamic conversion forced on the Buddhist Hami state was the final event in the Islamization.\n\nBuddhist murals at the Bezeklik Thousand Buddha Caves were damaged by local Muslim population whose religion proscribed figurative images of sentient beings, the eyes and mouths in particular were often gouged out. Pieces of murals were also broken off for use as fertilizer by the locals.\n\nAccording to Joseph Fletcher, \"For centuries Altishar had been 'the abod of Islam'. Its inhabitants lived under the obligation of Jihad\".\n\nThe 15th century was when Islamification finished off the Turkic Buddhists in Turfan.\n\nXinjiang consists of two main geographically, historically, and ethnically distinct regions with different historical names, Dzungaria north of the Tianshan Mountains and the Tarim Basin south of the Tianshan Mountains, before Qing China unified them into one political entity called Xinjiang province in 1884. At the time of the Qing conquest in 1759, Dzungaria was inhabited by the Dzongar people,a steppe dwelling, nomadic Mongol-related ethnic group who practiced Tibetan Buddhist. Meanwhile, the Tarim Basin was inhabited by sedentary, oasis dwelling, Turkic speaking Muslim farmers, now known as the Uyghur people. They were governed separately until 1884. The native Uyghur name for the Tarim Basin is Altishahr.\n\nThe Qing dynasty was well aware of the differences between the former Buddhist Mongol area to the north of the Tianshan and Turkic Muslim south of the Tianshan, and ruled them in separate administrative units at first. However, Qing people began to think of both areas as part of one distinct region called Xinjiang . The very concept of Xinjiang as one distinct geographic identity was created by the Qing and it was originally not the native inhabitants who viewed it that way, but rather it was the Chinese who held that point of view. During the Qing rule, no sense of \"regional identity\" was held by ordinary Xinjiang people; rather, Xinjiang's distinct identity was given to the region by the Qing, since it had distinct geography, history and culture, while at the same time it was created by the Chinese, multicultural, settled by Han and Hui, and separated from Central Asia for over a century and a half.\n\nIn the Dzungar genocide the Manchus exterminated the native Buddhist Dzungar Oirat Mongolic speaking people from their homeland of Dzungaria in Northern Xinjiang and resettled the area with a variety of different ethnic groups.\n\nThe Qing \"final solution\" of genocide to solve the problem of the Dzungar Mongols, made the Qing sponsored settlement of millions of Han Chinese, Hui, Turkestani Oasis people (Uyghurs) and Manchu Bannermen in Dzungaria possible, since the land was now devoid of Dzungars. The Dzungarian basin, which used to be inhabited by (Dzungar) Mongols, is currently inhabited by Kazakhs. In northern Xinjiang, the Qing brought in Han, Hui, Uyghur, Xibe, and Kazakh colonists after they exterminated the Dzungar Oirat Mongols in the region, with one third of Xinjiang's total population consisting of Hui and Han in the northern are, while around two thirds were Uyghurs in southern Xinjiang's Tarim Basin. In Dzungaria, the Qing established new cities like Ürümqi and Yining. The Qing were the ones who unified Xinjiang and changed its demographic situation.\n\nThe depopulation of northern Xinjiang after the Buddhist Öölöd Mongols (Dzungars) were slaughtered, led to the Qing settling Manchu, Sibo (Xibe), Daurs, Solons, Han Chinese, Hui Muslims, and Turkic Muslim Taranchis in the north, with Han Chinese and Hui migrants making up the greatest number of settlers. Since it was the crushing of the Buddhist Öölöd (Dzungars) by the Qing which led to promotion of Islam and the empowerment of the Muslim Begs in southern Xinjiang, and migration of Muslim Taranchis to northern Xinjiang, it was proposed by Henry Schwarz that \"the Qing victory was, in a certain sense, a victory for Islam\". Xinjiang as a unified, defined geographic identity was created and developed by the Qing. It was the Qing which led to Turkic Muslim power in the region increasing since the Mongol power was crushed by the Qing while Turkic Muslim culture and identity was tolerated or even promoted by the Qing.\n\nThe Qing gave the name Xinjiang to Dzungaria after conquering it and wiping out the Dzungars, reshaping it from a steppe grassland into farmland cultivated by Han Chinese farmers, 1 million mu (17,000 acres) were turned from grassland to farmland from 1760-1820 by the new colonies.\n\nAt the start of the 19th century, 40 years after the Qing reconquest, there were around 155,000 Han and Hui Chinese in northern Xinjiang and somewhat more than twice that number of Uyghurs in southern Xinjiang. A census of Xinjiang under Qing rule in the early 19th century tabulated ethnic shares of the population as 30% Han and 60% Turkic, while it dramatically shifted to 6% Han and 75% Uyghur in the 1953 census, however a situation similar to the Qing era-demographics with a large number of Han has been restored as of 2000 with 40.57% Han and 45.21% Uyghur. Professor Stanley W. Toops noted that today's demographic situation is similar to that of the early Qing period in Xinjiang. In northern Xinjiang, the Qing brought in Han, Hui, Uyghur, Xibe, and Kazakh colonists after they exterminated the Zunghar Oirat Mongols in the region, with one third of Xinjiang's total population consisting of Hui and Han in the northern are, while around two thirds were Uyghurs in southern Xinjiang's Tarim Basin. Before 1831, only a few hundred Chinese merchants lived in southern Xinjiang oases (Tarim Basin) and only a few Uyghurs lived in northern Xinjiang (Dzungaria).\n\nIn 1884, Qing China renamed the conquered region, established Xinjiang (\"new frontier\") as a province, formally applying onto it the political system of China proper. For the 1st time the name \"Xinjiang\" replaced old historical names such as \"Western Regions\", \"Chinese Turkestan\", \"Eastern Turkestan\", \"Uyghuristan\", \"Kashgaria\", \"Uyghuria\", \"Alter Sheher\" and \"Yetti Sheher\".\n\nThe two separate regions, Dzungaria, known as Zhǔn bù (準部, Dzungar region) or Tiānshān běi lù (天山北路, Northern March), and the Tarim Basin, which had been known as Altishahr, Huíbù (Muslim region), Huíjiāng (Muslim-land) or \"Tiānshān Nánlù (天山南路, southern March), were combined into a single province called Xinjiang by in 1884. Before this, there was never one administrative unit in which North Xinjiang (Zhunbu) and Southern Xinjiang (Huibu) were integrated together.\n\nA lot of the Han Chinese and Chinese Hui Muslim population who had previously settled northern Xinjiang (Dzungaria) after the Qing genocide of the Dzungars, had died in the Dungan revolt (1862–77). As a result, new Uyghur colonists from Southern Xinjiang (the Tarim Basin) proceeded to settle in the newly empty lands and spread across all of Xinjiang.\n\nAfter Xinjiang was converted into a province by the Qing, the provincialisation and reconstruction programs initiated by the Qing resulted in the Chinese government helping Uyghurs migrate from southern Xinjiang to other areas of the province, like the area between Qitai and the capital, which was formerly nearly completely inhabited by Han Chinese, and other areas like Urumqi, Tacheng (Tabarghatai), Yili, Jinghe, Kur Kara Usu, Ruoqiang, Lop Nor, and the Tarim River's lower reaches. It was during Qing times that Uyghurs were settled throughout all of Xinjiang, from their original home cities in the western Tarim Basin. The Qing policies after they created Xinjiang by uniting Dzungaria and Altishahr (Tarim Basin) led Uyghurs to believe that the all of Xinjiang province was their homeland, since the annihilation of the Dzungars by the Qing, populating the Ili valley with Uyghurs from the Tarim Basin, creating one political unit with a single name (Xinjiang) out of the previously separate Dzungaria and the Tarim Basin, the war from 1864-1878 which led to the killing of much of the original Han Chinese and Chinese Hui Muslims in Xinjiang, led to areas in Xinjiang with previously had insignificant amounts of Uyghurs, like the southeast, east, and north, to then become settled by Uyghurs who spread through all of Xinjiang from their original home in the southwest area. There was a major and fast growth of the Uyghur population, while the original population of Han Chinese and Hui Muslims from before the war of 155,000 dropped, to the much lower population of 33,114 Tungans (Hui) and 66,000 Han.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48801317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48801317", "title": "Kyle Lockwood", "text": "Kyle Lockwood\n\nKyle Lockwood (born 1977) is a New Zealand architectural designer based in Melbourne, Australia. He is known for leading the successful campaign for the Government of New Zealand to reintroduce the duration of the New Zealand passport to ten years, and for designing the two flags that came first and second in the first New Zealand flag referendum. He also successfully lobbied for the introduction of the Hospitality NZ 18+ card.\n\nLockwood's Silver Fern Flag design was voted in as the official Preferred Alternative New Zealand Flag in the first referendum, in March 2016 the existing Flag of New Zealand won the second referendum.\n\nLockwood was born in 1977 in Wellington, New Zealand. His father, Simon Lockwood, represented New Zealand in underwater hockey, and was team captain. As the team used the \"silver fern\" as their symbol, Lockwood grew fond of this symbol. His mother is Barbara Lockwood. He is descended from Ngāti Porou ki Hauraki Māori. His early life was also influenced by his grandparents, Kathy and Walter Lockwood, who were both born in the United Kingdom, and served in the Royal Navy and the Royal Air Force respectively. During World War Two, Walter Lockwood served as a Chindit behind Japanese enemy lines in Burma, Kyle attended Lyall Bay School and Evans Bay Intermediate School in the Wellington suburb of Kilbirnie. After high school at Rongotai College, he volunteered in the New Zealand Army before working for the Wellington City Council for four years in the building consent department. In 1999 he attended Massey University and studied architectural technology, graduating in 2001.\n\nIn one of the lectures at Massey University, the topic of attaching flagpoles to buildings came up, and Lockwood started sketching a flag. He considered a Union Jack but thought that a silver fern was more appropriate, and added the Southern Cross from the current New Zealand flag. Lockwood put the design away and published it about three years later in 2003. The flag design won a competition in July 2004 run by \"The Hutt News\". The flag appeared on \"Campbell Live\" in 2005 and won an online poll that included the present national flag. In January 2014, John Key announced that a binding flag referendum could be held with in conjunction with the 2014 general election. Whilst the date for the September 2014 election was missed, the New Zealand flag referendums went ahead and five of Lockwood's flags made it into an initial long list of 40 flags. Despite a UMR poll predicting a vote of 35%, the Silver Fern Flag gained a significant minority in the second referendum with 43.2% of the vote, whilst the existing flag won with 56.6% of the vote.\n\nAfter the second referendum, the flag continued to make appearances in the International media. In the first New Zealand cricket test against Zimbabwe on 28 July 2016, the flag was featured in the opening graphics sequence, The flag is also still seen flying from flagpoles around New Zealand, Kip Colvey a prominent US/NZ football player, appeared in Fairfax media on 26 December 2016, in front of the flag.\n\nLockwood's silver fern design featured in the prototype livery of the 'Electron' rocket in Rocket Lab's New Zealand space program, The first Electron rocket was launched in 2017. The silver fern design will feature in the Orewa Walk of Fame in Auckland which was scheduled to be dedicated in September 2016. The design was also used after New Zealand’s victory in the America’s Cup, to welcome Pete Burling, and his Emirates Team New Zealand, at victory parades which were held in New Zealand’s main cities throughout July 2017.\n\nIn November 2005, the New Zealand Government reduced the validity of the New Zealand passport from ten years to five, the move was unpopular with the New Zealand travelling public. Lockwood's interest in the matter was raised when he witnessed a young mother refused travel for herself and her child because there were less than six months left on the mother's five-year passport. Lockwood set up a Facebook page called \"Bring Back 10 Year NZ Passports\" in January 2013 and a website nzten.com, which attracted much attention. The media picked up on the initiative during January 2013 and the first article appeared in Fairfax Media on 20 January.\n\nThe group submitted the Petition of Kyle Lockwood with 15,900 signatures to parliament on 4 December 2013. Prior to the 2014 general election Lockwood successfully negotiated with all main political parties to adopt ten-year passport policy. The former prime minister, John Key, gave his first indication that a return to a 10-year validity period could be considered, in May 2014. An official review of the validity period was announced in August 2014, a month before the general election. Law changes were passed and since 30 November 2015, 10-year passports are available again for New Zealanders.\n\nIn 1998 Lockwood successfully campaigned the New Zealand Government for a photographic evidence of age card to be made available to those who do not possess a driver licence or passport. At the time driver licences in New Zealand did not include a photograph and the legal age to purchase alcohol in New Zealand was 20 (or 18 if accompanied by a parent) Lockwood noted that many young New Zealanders who appeared to be under 25 were refused access to bars and clubs or could not purchase alcohol elsewhere unless they presented a valid passport.\n\nLockwood appeared before the Justice and Law Reform Parliamentary Select Committee on the Sale of Liquor Amendment Bill and argued that a photographic ID was necessary for those that do not hold a driver licence or passport. the committee recommended that an evidence of age card be made official and after the Sale of Liquor Amendment Act 1999 was gazetted the Hospitality NZ 18+ Card Evidence of Age Document has been made available to New Zealanders and overseas citizens alike who do not wish to use a passport to purchase alcohol in New Zealand. While originally developed as a means for younger people to prove they were over 18, the card has been growing in popularity amongst older people who do not have a driver licence or passport, who are looking for a cost effective, nationally recognised form of photo ID.\n\n"}
{"id": "42026413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42026413", "title": "LGBT history in Honduras", "text": "LGBT history in Honduras\n\nHomosexuality in Honduras was decriminalised in 1899.\nWhile a small (but persecuted) gay-rights-oriented culture exists in Honduras, certain lower socio-economic barrios have seen the persistence of an older social construction of same-sex eroticism (roughly similar to that which existed in much of the U.S. before WWII) whereby masculine \"hombres\" (young, unmarried men 15-25) play the penetrative role with \"locas\" (effeminate but non-cross-dressing/non-transgender, older males), usually for some type of remuneration but occasionally also for friendship and mutual assistance. For the \"hombres\", these acts do not carry the stigma of being seen as \"homosexual\" (though some taboo exists about open discussion of such relationships); the young men consider themselves fully heterosexual and almost always marry by their mid-twenties, limiting their sexual activity thereafter to women.\n\n"}
{"id": "1282359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1282359", "title": "Liberal government, 1892–1895", "text": "Liberal government, 1892–1895\n\nIn the 1892 general election, the Conservative Party, led by the Marquess of Salisbury, won the most seats but not an overall majority. As a result, William Ewart Gladstone's Liberal Party formed a minority government that relied upon Irish Nationalist support. On 3 March 1894, Gladstone resigned over the rejection of his Home Rule Bill and the Earl of Rosebery succeeded him.\n\n\nCabinet members are listed in bold face.\n"}
{"id": "4884818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4884818", "title": "Liberty Issue", "text": "Liberty Issue\n\nThe Liberty issue was a definitive series of postage stamps issued by the United States between 1954 and 1965. It offered twenty-four denominations, ranging from a half-cent issue showing Benjamin Franklin to a five dollar issue depicting Alexander Hamilton. However, in a notable departure from all definitive series since 1870, the stamp for a normal first-class letter—the 3-cent value—did not present the portrait of a president, but instead offered a monocolor . Moreover, two-color renderings of the Statue of Liberty (\"Liberty Enlightening the World\") appeared on both the 8 cent and 11 cent stamps; and it is from these three denominations that the Liberty issue takes its name. (Oversized versions of the 3¢ and 8¢ stamps also appeared on a miniature sheet issued in 1956 for the Fifth International Philatelic exhibition.) Pictures of other national landmarks, such as Bunker Hill and Mount Vernon, are found on several values, while the rest of the stamps follow tradition, containing portraits of well-known historic Americans. The six denominations in the set that illustrate buildings (The Alamo, Monticello, etc.) were all designed in landscape format, resulting in a free intermixture of landscape and portrait orientation for the first time in a definitive U.S. issue (in all previous mixed sets, landscape stamps had been confined to the highest denominations). \n\nLike three previous U. S. definitive issues, the Liberty series offered one—and only one—image of a prominent woman. But while Martha Washington had played this role in the series of 1902, 1922–1925 and 1938, the Liberty Issue eliminated her, instead presenting Susan B. Anthony, portrayed on the 50-cent stamp. The Liberty Issue was the first definitive series including multiple presidents issued since 1861 which did not contain a single stamp honoring a recently deceased president. To be sure, the only president who would have qualified, Franklin D. Roosevelt, had died quite a while before—some nine years—and, moreover, was not admired by the political party that introduced the new series. FDR was the first deceased president since Chester A. Arthur (d. 1886) to have been excluded from the next multi-president definitive series to appear after his death—denied an honor that had been accorded to his eight predecessors in office: Cleveland, Harrison, McKinley, Theodore Roosevelt, Taft, Wilson, Harding and Coolidge. It is also notable that only 28% of the Liberty series stamps offered images of presidents (seven out of 25 denominations): a smaller presidential percentage than had appeared on any previous U. S. definitive issue.\n\nRelease of the Liberty series began in 1954, and the set was essentially complete by 1960, but a few values were added subsequently. While the Liberty stamps were generally replaced by the Prominent Americans series, issued starting in 1965, several of its denominations remained on sale for a considerable period of time afterwards. Most notably, two coil stamps—the 2 cent Thomas Jefferson and the 25 cent Paul Revere—were repeatedly reprinted, continuing on sale well into the 1980s. Remaining stocks of the 12 cent Benjamin Harrison stamp were sold at some post offices in 1981 to meet the new postal card rate as the United States Postal Service was not able to issue a new 12 cent stamp prior to the implementation of the rate increase.\n\nOver the time span that the series was issued the technology of printing postage stamps changed. This led to many of the stamps having varieties with different papers, perforations and the addition of a phosphor coating. Thus at this more specialized level the series is rather complex.\n\nThe 1/2 cent stamp was the last issued of that denomination for use as postage, although a postage due stamp of that value was issued in 1959. It was also the last appearance of Franklin on a lower value stamp in a regular series, a tradition that had been followed since 1847. In this series, two of the fractional denominations—1¼¢ and 2½¢—appeared on U. S. postage stamps for the first time.\n\nSheet format:\n\nCoil stamps:\n\nIn late 1954 5000 panes, each 100 stamps, of the 2¢ Jefferson, Scott catalog 1033, were printed on experimental bright Silkote postage stamp paper. These were released at a few post offices in Maine. It is estimated that no more than 400 of these stamps, which have been designated \"1033a\", still exist.\n\n"}
{"id": "27491496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27491496", "title": "List of conservative feminisms", "text": "List of conservative feminisms\n\nSome variants of feminism are considered more conservative than others.\n\nBecause almost any variant of feminism can have a conservative element, this list does not attempt to list variants of feminism simply with conservative elements. Instead, this list is of feminism variants that are primarily conservative.\n\nThis list may include organizations or individuals where a conservative feminism is more readily identified that way, but is primarily a list of feminisms \"per se\". Generally, organizations and people related to a feminism should not be in this list but should be found by following links to articles about various feminisms with which such organizations and people are associated.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26501349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26501349", "title": "List of indigenous rights organizations", "text": "List of indigenous rights organizations\n\nThis is a list of indigenous rights organizations. Some of these organizations are members of other organizations listed in this article. Sometimes local organizations associated with particular groups of indigenous people will join in a regional or national organization, which in turn can join an even higher organization, along with other member supraorganizations.\n\nThe \"International\" section is for organizations that are open to work with indigenous peoples around the world. These organizations are not limited to a specific area or with specific Indigenous Peoples. They are listed by country of origin. The organizations in the \"Regional\" section are listed by the area in which they work. The regions and countries in this part of the list indicate the area in which these organizations operate.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAfrica\nArctic\nAustralia\nBrazil\nCanada\nMexico\nNew Zealand\nPhilippines\nUnited States\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38305143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38305143", "title": "Malinchism", "text": "Malinchism\n\nMalinchism () or malinchist () is a form of attraction that the foreigner has in the popular imagination, causing individuals to lose the spirit of nationality by moving to the other side, a particular case of cultural cringe. It is derived from the name of Hernán Cortés's Nahua advisor La Malinche, referring to a deep-rooted Mexican inferiority complex or self-hatred for the preference for all things foreign to the point of self-destruction. La Malinche is used as a symbol for being supposed to have assisted the Spaniards in destroying Native Americans' way of life, values, norms and culture and exploit the Native American peoples.\n\n\"Malinchism\" is a pejorative label, expressing disdain for those who are attracted by foreign values, thinking them superior, of better quality and worthy of imitation. In Mexico and in other countries the term \"malinchism\" or \"malinchist\" applies to all those who feel an attraction to foreign cultures and disregard for their own national culture. It also applies to politics, as in El Salvador, in which the leftist political parties call their opponents \"malinchist right-wing\". The myth of Malinche and the force of this feeling of disgust crossed the Mexican border, and malinchism came to be applied as a technical term, political, for giving preference to foreign cultures.\n\nIt has been argued that upper-class consumers in Mexico display malinchism in their preference for American imports, rather than local Mexican brands. As result, American products are sold mostly on the middle class market, and their advertising agencies generally avoid working class and rural areas. They concentrate their efforts on Mexico City, Monterrey, and Guadalajara, which purchase 70 percent of the American imports.\n\nMalinchism is also associated with a societal depiction of women as the source of betrayal and nefarious behavior. In the images of Mexican popular culture, this theme plays out with Malinche often portrayed as both the deceiver and the deceived. In theatrical productions, she is sometimes portrayed as a victim of conquest, and sometimes the manufacturer of her own destiny; almost always, Malinche is portrayed as guilty, in a form of victim blaming. If she was indeed forced to help the conquistadors against her will, it was because she didn't struggle enough; if she was a willing participant, she not only brought her own troubles, but she caused all of her people and her children to suffer. She is represented in art as a figure showing women's inborn deception and guilt — one who used her sexuality and in so doing betrayed her own unwitting children. Even in dance, the dichotomy persists. In \"La Malinche,\" a ballet composed in 1949, by José Limón, Malinche is at first an unwilling victim, then assumes the proud deportment of an aristocrat, and in the end, weighted down by the finery she wears, she gives birth to the mixed-race child who rejects her. In literature, Malinche has been compared to Eve, the temptress who through deception, leads men astray. \n"}
{"id": "27515872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27515872", "title": "Math–verbal achievement gap", "text": "Math–verbal achievement gap\n\nThe math–verbal achievement gap is a phenomenon first observed by Richard Rothstein in a brief 2002 article written in \"The New York Times.\" This achievement gap reveals a growing disparity in the United States between the rising national average on the math portions of the college entry SAT and ACT exams, as opposed to the flat-lining verbal portions on the same tests.\n\nAround 1990 the national average on the math portion of the SAT began its slow but steady ascension over the national average for the verbal portion. It took only one decade for the math average to eclipse the verbal average, continuing to widen since that point. The difference is sizable and significant. The average SAT test-taker today produces a math score that is 13 points higher than their verbal score. However, this was not always the case. In fact, in the 1970s the relationship was precisely the opposite when national verbal scores routinely trumped the national math average by similar margins.\n\nThe first academic analysis of this gap was conducted by James Lech Ed.D., M.T.S. Lech posited that this gap could be \"collateral damage\" from the well-documented academic and social \"erosion\" known as dumbing-down. In other words, the SAT math questions progressively eased in difficulty over time while the verbal difficulty levels 1) remained constant, or 2) dumbed-down at much slower rates.\n\nTo test that hypothesis Lech constructed scores of survey instruments compiled from the math questions derived from publicly released SATs from the early 1980s through 2005. The survey instruments were intentionally created to conceal the source of the questions in order to reduce reader-bias towards standardized testing. They were then disseminated to more than 1,500 qualified high school math teachers that were randomly selected from a pool of every high school (both public and private) in the United States. Their responses were tabulated. Lech found that the SAT math questions were not getting easier at all in the eyes of these math teachers; in fact they were getting slightly harder.\n\nThe research hypothesis Lech tested was rejected: the questions on the math portions of the SAT are not getting easier over time. As noted, they are getting a little harder. This confounds the math-verbal achievement gap in general. There were several proposals put forth to explain rising national averages, year-after-year, on the difficult math portions of the SAT, as opposed to stagnating national verbal averages on the same test, during the same three decades.\n\nRothstein, in the 2002 \"New York Times\" article, admitted that \"Nobody really knows why we seem to make more progress in math than reading. But one likely cause is that students learn math mostly in school, while literacy also comes from habits at home. Even if reading instruction improves, scores would suffer if students did less out-of-school reading or had a less literate home environment.\"\n\nRothstein also suggested that the hugely successful SAT and ACT test preparation courses are unwittingly emphasizing mathematical prowess over verbal acuity. He rationalized that successful test-taking techniques taught in these courses to boost test scores work very well for multiple-choice math questions.\n\nRothstein also highlighted that English-language-learners (hereinafter, ELL) in American schools were on the increase, and certainly that could have a downward pull on the national verbal average on these standardized tests. It would seem likely that ELL status would adversely affect a student's verbal score to a greater extent as opposed to the mathematics portion on the same standardized test.\n\nFinally, Rothstein indicated that studies revealed then, as they still do now, that student reading was on the decline while television-watching by American youth was on the increase. These dual social trends, when combined, could negatively impact student verbal scores at higher rates than their math scores. However, it should be noted these behaviors also lower math scores—a point that Rothstein could have overlooked. What Rothstein could not anticipate in 2002 is the exponential proliferation of text messages teenagers send and receive, and the potential for negative ramifications of that activity when it comes to progressing with their verbal skills. The New York Times notes that this \"phenomenon is beginning to worry physicians and psychologists, who say it is leading to anxiety, distraction in school, falling grades, repetitive stress injury and sleep deprivation.\" There may indeed be cause for concern as Neilsen's reported in 2008 that \"American teenagers sent and received an average of 2,272 text messages per month in the fourth quarter of 2008 ... almost 80 messages a day, more than double the average of a year earlier (\"Ibid.\"). Neilsen's 2010 report indicates a 47 percent increase in teen texting to 3,339 texts per month (4,050 for female teens).\n\nLech's alternative suggestions for further research in that 2007 dissertation indicated that it is quite likely the math–verbal achievement gap could be partially explained by the rapid proliferation of math and science Advanced Placement courses in American high schools. This wave of science and math AP courses, over that of humanities AP courses, is rising concurrently with higher math scores over that of verbal scores on these standardized tests. He added that this effect could be multiplied if large numbers of savvy students are front-loading the math and science AP courses in high school to intentionally \"bone-up\" for corresponding sections on the SAT/ACT. Indeed there does seem to be a solid preference for better math and science marks by college admission personnel. This would simultaneously explain both better scores on the math portions of the SAT/ACT and stagnating verbal scores on those tests. After all, AP English in 12th grade will not provide praxis for college-entry tests taken in 11th grade.\n\nLech also contended that chain-migration from South Asia, West Asia, and East Asia during these same decades could also be positively influencing these rising SAT math scores (while simultaneously suppressing the verbal scores as many of those students may also be ELL students as well). That's because he noted the number of Asian students taking the SAT are disproportionately overrepresented during the very years when this math–verbal gap really takes form. Of the students taking the SAT, the proportion or percentage who are Asian is more than double the Asian proportion [or percentage] in the U.S. population. That is significant because, as Lech pointed out, Asian students themselves averaged 580 (out of a possible 800) on the math portion of the SAT in 2005, but the national math average that same year (which mathematically includes those high-scoring Asian students) was only 520.\n\nLastly, Lech agreed with Rothstein that another influence on the math–verbal achievement gap could be the quality of the math teachers themselves. Lech referenced literature indicating that U.S. math teachers tend to be much better organized than their humanities counterparts across the hall. Rothstein held that American math teachers tend to be better trained because they have more resources available like the extremely large cash grant from the National Science Foundation for math and science instruction in high school which English teachers cannot reap.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7265151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7265151", "title": "Ministry of Health and Social Services (Quebec)", "text": "Ministry of Health and Social Services (Quebec)\n\nThe Minister of Health and Social Services (in French: Ministère de la Santé et des Services sociaux) is responsible for the administration of health and social services in the province of Quebec since June 1985. The Minister of Social Affairs was previously responsible for this duty.\n\nThe following people have served as Quebec's Minister of Health and Social Services:\n\n"}
{"id": "202988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202988", "title": "Muhammad Saeed al-Sahhaf", "text": "Muhammad Saeed al-Sahhaf\n\nMohammed Saeed al-Sahhaf ( '; born 30 July 1940), also known as Baghdad Bob, is a former Iraqi diplomat and politician. He came to world wide prominence around the 2003 invasion of Iraq, during which he was the Iraqi Information Minister under Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, acting as spokesperson for the Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party and Saddam's government.\n\nAl-Sahhaf was born in Hilla, near Karbala to a Shi'ite Arab family. After studying journalism at Baghdad University he graduated with a master's degree in English literature. He planned to become an English teacher before joining the Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party in 1963. In the early days of the Ba'athist regime, he read out regular announcements of recently executed Iraqis on state television.\n\nHe served as an ambassador to Sweden, Burma, the United Nations, and Italy before returning to Iraq to serve as Foreign Minister in 1992. The reasons for his removal as Foreign Minister in April 2001 are unclear, but his achievements in the position were often claimed to be less satisfactory than that of his predecessor, Tariq Aziz. At least one report suggests that Uday Hussein (son of Iraqi President Saddam Hussein) was responsible for the removal.\n\nAl-Sahhaf is known for his daily press briefings in Baghdad during the 2003 invasion of Iraq. His colorful appearances caused him to be nicknamed \"Baghdad Bob\" (in the style of previous propagandists with geographical aliases—some of them alliterative, such as \"Tokyo Rose\", \"Hanoi Hannah\" and \"Seoul City Sue\") by commentators in the United States. He was nicknamed \"Comical Ali\" (a wordplay allusion to \"Chemical Ali\" the nickname of former Iraqi Defence Minister Ali Hassan al-Majid) by commentators in the United Kingdom; commentators in Italy similarly nicknamed him \"Alì il Comico\".\n\nHis pronouncements included claims that American soldiers were committing suicide \"by the hundreds\" outside the city, and denial that there were any American tanks in Baghdad, when in fact they were only several hundred meters away from the press conference where he was speaking and the combat sounds of the nearing American troops could already be heard in the background of the broadcast. On another occasion he spoke of the disastrous outcomes of previous foreign attempts to invade Iraq, citing an unspecified Western history book and inviting the journalists present to come to his home to read it. His last public appearance as Information Minister was on 8 April 2003, when he said that the Americans \"are going to surrender or be burned in their tanks. They will surrender, it is they who will surrender\". When asked where he had got his information he replied, \"authentic sources—many authentic sources\". He pointed out that he \"was a professional, doing his job\".\n\nHe frequently used the word \"‘ulūj\" (علوج), an obscure and particularly insulting term for infidels, to describe the American forces in Iraq. This caused some debate in the Arabic-language media about the exact meaning of the word with most concluding it meant \"bloodsucking insect\". In an August 2003 interview on Abu Dhabi Al Oula, al-Sahhaf said it was an archaic term attributed to Umar ibn Al-Khattāb.\n\nAl-Sahhaf gained something of a cult following in the West, appearing on T-shirts, cartoons, and in Internet phenomena. In the UK, a DVD documentary was sold about his exploits and televised interviews, called \"Comical Ali\".\n\nOn 25 June 2003, the British newspaper \"The Daily Mirror\" reported that al-Sahhaf had been captured by coalition troops at a roadblock in Baghdad. The report was not confirmed by military authorities and was denied by al-Sahhaf's family through Abu Dhabi TV. The next day al-Sahhaf himself recorded an interview for the Dubai-based news channel, al-Arabiya. He was reportedly paid as much as $200,000 for the television interview, during which he appeared very withdrawn in contrast with the bombastic persona he projected during the war. Many of his answers consisted of a simple \"yes\" or \"no\". He refused to speculate on the causes of the downfall of the Iraqi government and answered only \"history will tell\" when asked if video clips purporting to prove that Saddam Hussein was alive were genuine, amid speculation at that time that Hussein had been killed during the war.\n\nHis fame quickly evaporated as the war continued into the insurgency phase; from the middle of 2003 onward, he faded from the public spotlight, and was no longer a figure in the war. Al-Sahhaf said that he had surrendered to US forces, had been interrogated by them and released. He was not charged for his role in Saddam Hussein's government.\n\nIn November 2014, Swedish newspaper \"Expressen\" posted a video of an ill man, ostensibly Al-Sahhaf in a hospital bed in the UAE, claiming that he was dying.\n\n"}
{"id": "404988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=404988", "title": "New Math", "text": "New Math\n\nNew Mathematics or New Math was a brief, dramatic change in the way mathematics was taught in American grade schools, and to a lesser extent in European countries, during the 1960s. The change involved new curriculum topics and teaching practices introduced in the U.S. shortly after the Sputnik crisis, in order to boost science education and mathematical skill in the population, so that the technological threat of Soviet engineers, reputedly highly skilled mathematicians, could be met.\n\nThe phrase is often used now to describe any short-lived fad which quickly becomes highly discredited.\n\nTopics introduced in the New Math include modular arithmetic, algebraic inequalities, bases other than 10, matrices, symbolic logic, Boolean algebra, and abstract algebra. In elementary school, in addition to bases other than 10, students were taught basic set theory and made to distinguish \"numerals\" from \"numbers.\" \n\nParents and teachers who opposed the New Math in the U.S. complained that the new curriculum was too far outside of students' ordinary experience and was not worth taking time away from more traditional topics, such as arithmetic. The material also put new demands on teachers, many of whom were required to teach material they did not fully understand. Parents were concerned that they did not understand what their children were learning and could not help them with their studies. In an effort to learn the material, many parents attended their children's classes. In the end, it was concluded that the experiment was not working, and New Math fell out of favor before the end of the decade, though it continued to be taught for years thereafter in some school districts.\n\nIn the Algebra preface of his book \"Precalculus Mathematics in a Nutshell\", Professor George F. Simmons wrote that the New Math produced students who had \"heard of the commutative law, but did not know the multiplication table.\"\n\nIn 1965, physicist Richard Feynman wrote in the essay \"New Textbooks for the 'New Mathematics'\":\n\nIn his book \"Why Johnny Can't Add: the Failure of the New Math\", Morris Kline says that certain advocates of the new topics \"ignored completely the fact that mathematics is a cumulative development and that it is practically impossible to learn the newer creations, if one does not know the older ones\" (p. 17). Furthermore, noting the trend to abstraction in New Math, Kline says \"abstraction is not the first stage, but the last stage, in a mathematical development\" (p. 98).\n\nIn the broader context, reform of school mathematics curricula was also pursued in European countries, such as the United Kingdom (particularly by the School Mathematics Project), and France, where the extremely high prestige of mathematical qualifications was not matched by teaching that connected with contemporary research and university topics. In West Germany the changes were seen as part of a larger process of \"Bildungsreform\". Beyond the use of set theory and different approach to arithmetic, characteristic changes were transformation geometry in place of the traditional deductive Euclidean geometry, and an approach to calculus that was based on greater insight, rather than emphasis on facility.\n\nAgain, the changes met with a mixed reception, but for different reasons. For example, the end-users of mathematics studies were at that time mostly in the physical sciences and engineering; and they expected manipulative skill in calculus, rather than more abstract ideas. Some compromises have since been required, given that discrete mathematics is the basic language of computing.\n\nTeaching in the USSR did not experience such extreme upheavals, while being kept in tune, both with the applications and academic trends. \"Under A. N. Kolmogorov, the mathematics committee declared a reform of the curricula of grades 4–10, at the time when the school system consisted of 10 grades. The committee found the type of reform in progress in Western countries to be unacceptable; for example, no special topic for sets was accepted for inclusion in school textbooks. Transformation approaches were accepted in teaching geometry, but not to such sophisticated level presented in the textbook produced by Vladimir Boltyansky and Isaak Yaglom.\"\n\nIn Japan, the New Math was supported by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (MEXT), but not without encountering problems, leading to student-centred approaches.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44468228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44468228", "title": "Papaye Peasant Movement", "text": "Papaye Peasant Movement\n\nThe Papaye Peasant Movement, Mouvman Peyizan Papay (MPP) in Haitian Creole, is recognized as both the largest peasant movement in Haiti and a grass-roots organization (GRO). MPP has approximately 60,000 members, including 20,000 women and 10,000 youths. It is localized in the Central Plateau, home to about 13% of the Haitian population, the majority of whom are rural subsistence farmers or agricultural workers.\n\nMPP focuses on re-establishing food sovereignty in Haiti through a number or programs and methods which include educating people on sustainable farming methods and organizing skills. While these are the primary foci of MPP, the organization has expanded to provide a plethora of other services to its members, including legal aid, health care services, and university scholarships. The movement seeks to empower peasants to control their own livelihood, thus decreasing dependency on multinational organizations which have flooded the Haitian agricultural market in recent decades.\n\nWorkers in the same neighborhood join together to form groups which meet weekly. At least seven groups in the same region form a local assembly, which meets monthly. The regional assembly, comprising at least four local assemblies, meets every three months, while the general assembly – which all local assemblies attend – meets once a year.\n\nThe Papaye Peasant Movement was established in 1973 by Jean-Baptiste Chavannes, a Catholic lay-worker turned agronomist, with the intent to collaborate with rural farmworkers in order to develop more efficient and more sustainable farming methods. Though Chavannes originally worked with two small groups (groupements) of workers, MPP now includes over 4,000 groups. The organizations' activities have diversified over time, in a slow but methodical manner, beginning with economic initiatives.\n\nIn 1976, MPP implemented a savings and credit union, SERE POU CHOFE (Haitian Creole for \"Save to Warm\") in part because the heads of the movement saw increasing personal income and tackling hunger is being inherently linked to one another. SERE POU CHOFE enabled members to where members deposit savings from which other members could borrow and then replenish.\n\nIn 1978, MPP created KONBIT SÈVO MEN AK KÈ ANSANM (Union of minds, hearts, and hands), also known as KOSMIKA, a multi-sector union which focused on storing and producing agricultural products, finding and building warehouses to store farming tools, and establishing a farmer's bank. The following year, MPP founded a youth leadership program and the Young Peasant Workers association or Jeunes Travailleurs Paysan (JTP) which works to educate youths on a variety of subjects and prepares them to take on leadership roles later in life.\n\nThe Movement of Women of MPP, along with a separate association for and run by women, was established in 1981 in order to attack gender inequality within the movement. These two entities focus on tackling violence against women, defending social and cultural rights, as well as promoting economic independence.\n\nDuring its early years, the MPP had to maintain a relatively low profile due to political and economic oppression imposed by the Duvalier regime in Haiti. When Duvalier was forced out in 1986, the movement began to gain political traction, and played a large role in supporting Operation Lavalas, Jean-Bertrand Aristide's party. Aristide became the first democratically elected president of Haiti in 1991, only to be overthrown a few months later. Many of the leaders of MPP went into hiding, while others were imprisoned or tortured. Chavannes Jean-Baptiste himself went into exile from 1993 to 1994. Nevertheless, the movement continued its activities and opened an office in Boston in order to spread information on a worldwide scale. Full operations resumed in 1994 when Haiti established a constitutional government.\n\nMPP provides a number of training education programs and workshops for group members, while also providing university-level training for middle managers who often come back to the organization. Higher-level workshops are also provided to trained instructors.\n\nThe youth education program, JTP, is organized by a three-tier system: Pre-Nursery JTP (PPJTP) for children ages 5 to 10, Nursery JTP (PJTP) for children ages 10 to 15, and JTP for people ages 15 through 30, though members of JTP can also become group members or leaders within MPP. JTP programs provide courses on sex education, sports, music, dance, theater, and cultural activities. Some participants receive university scholarships and are sent to study in Port-au-Prince or abroad.\n\nMPP also has a legal aid department which informs members of their rights, basic legal training, as well as legal services.\n\nMPP develops cooperatives within different assemblies and trains assembly members to manage the financial aspects of their projects. The organization also conducts feasibility and productivity studies, helps grous prepare reports, and provides economic counseling. In February, 2013, MPP celebrated the inauguration of a modern corn storage and processing mill which was built with the help of two Canadian organizations: Développement et Paix and ACDI.\n\nMPP has a number of health projects relating to hygiene, sexual health, nutrition, and parenting skills. It also has a health center with a laboratory, and a pharmacy where community members can receive services and medical consultations. MPP also has a community health worker program.\n\nAbout 75% of the Haitian population lives in rural areas, a large portion of whom practice subsistence agriculture. Until the 1980s, the country was in large part self-sustainable in terms of rice, manioc, and potato production. After the dismantlement of the Duvalier dictatorship, however, organizations such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank urged the country to liberalize markets and undergo structural reform, leading to a rural exodus and greatly affecting the agricultural sector. The liberalization of markets caused government funding for agricultural and public-sector development to decrease, further depleting the agricultural sector. Many multinational corporations took advantage of the newly liberalized market to export goods, creating Haitian dependency on agricultural imports. Additionally, deforestation has caused mass erosion, thus decreasing soil arability and quality.\n\nMPP's agro-ecology program seeks to address the issue of dependence and food sovereignty by focusing on forms of agriculture based on environmental health. The organization teaches innovative farming practices, including germinating seedlings inside discarded tires and using other methods so as not to exhaust the land. Farmers focus on growing organic, indigenous crops in order to maintain biodiversity, and thus reject hybrid and GMO seed donations from multinational corporations. The program also comprises a reforestation component in order to help improve soil quality and prevent further erosion. Since its inception, MPP members have planted over 20 million trees, and their efforts continue.\n\nMPP conducts courses on water management and storage. Methods include draining water from kitchens and showers into ponds filled, gravel, and charcoal, thus producing clean water. This water is then used to for irrigation and fish breeding. MPP also uses cisterns to catch water on rooves, mountain-top catchment lakes, and water-drip irrigation systems in order to save and store water.\n\nMPP has taken on multiple alternative energy initiatives. Leaders have conducted workshops on how to install solar panels and how to build solar-powered batteries; they have also established a facility to manufacture solar products. Additionally, MPP promotes the use of natural fertilizer such as manure and compost. They also produce alternative charcoal, bio-fuel from waste, and other alternative energy methods.\n\nAfter the 2010 earthquake, there was an urban exodus to rural areas like Papaye, particularly from the Haitian capital of Port-au-Prince. MMP set up a camp for internally displaced people, and in collaborations with partners such as Unitarian Universalist Service Committee (UUSC), helped refugees build eco-villages. Earthquake survivors, MMP members, and volunteers built the houses, – survivors were paid a minimum salary for their work – taught urban dwellers sustainable farming methods, and set up personal and community gardens. Water management methods were also installed so that eco-village dwellers would have access to clean water. So far, the experiment has been a success and many other organizations are replicating this model in Haiti and elsewhere.\n\nIn June, 2012, 12,000 Haitian farmers marched in the streets of the town of Hinche in order to protest multinational corporations pushing hybrid seeds and biofuels on local farmers. They buried coffins inscribed with the names of a number of corporations as a part of the protest.\n\nThe Seeds for Haïti campaign was launched inn 2012 in the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy in collaboration with MPP's French partner, Frères des Hommes. The organizations were able to raise enough money to buy 20 tons of seeds in order to support Haitian farmers who lost their supply as a result of the hurricane.\n\n"}
{"id": "2033792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2033792", "title": "Party of the Reconstruction of the National Order", "text": "Party of the Reconstruction of the National Order\n\nThe Party of the Reconstruction of the National Order (Portuguese: Partido de Reedificação da Ordem Nacional, PRONA) was a nationalist political party in Brazil. Its electoral code was 56 and its colors were the traditional Brazilian green and yellow. It was founded in 1989 by the polymath Enéas Carneiro, who was the president of the party. Its political broadcasts during the pre-election campaigning periods became famous and distinct for the speed in which they were produced due to the very short time the party had available and also because of the use of Beethoven's Fifth Symphony as soundtrack.\n\nThe party was strongly identified with the figure of Enéas, who was candidate to the presidency of Brazil in 1989, 1994 and 1998.\n\nThe party was extinguished in 2006, shortly before the death of Enéas, being succeeded by the Party of the Republic.\n\nThe , based on data released by the Superior Electoral Court on 4 October 2007, released a balance sheet containing parties with the largest number of members of the judiciary who had been expelled for corruption since the year 2000. PRONA appeared in last place, with a single expel, tied with the Humanist Party of Solidarity, Green Party and Progressive Republican Party.\n\n"}
{"id": "40811786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40811786", "title": "President (corporate title)", "text": "President (corporate title)\n\nThe President is a leader of an organization, company, community, club, trade union, university or other group. The relationship between the president and the Chief Executive Officer varies, depending on the structure of the specific organization. In a similar vein to the Chief Operating Officer, the title of corporate President as a separate position (as opposed to being combined with a \"C-Suite\" designation, such as \"President and Chief Executive Officer\" or \"President and Chief Operating Officer\") is also loosely defined; the President is usually the legally recognized highest rank of corporate officer, ranking above the various Vice Presidents (including Senior Vice President and Executive Vice President), but on its own generally considered subordinate, in practice, to the CEO. The powers of the president vary widely across organizations and such powers come from specific authorization in the bylaws (e.g. the president can make an \"executive decision\" only if the bylaws allow for it).\n\nOriginally, the term \"president\" was used to designate someone who presided over a meeting, and was used in the same way that \"foreman\" or \"overseer\" is used now (the term is still used in that sense today). It has now also come to mean \"chief officer\" in terms of administrative or executive duties.\n\nIn addition to the administrative or executive duties in organizations, the president has the duties of presiding over meetings. Such duties at meetings include:\nWhile presiding, the president should remain impartial and not interrupt a speaker if the speaker has the floor and is following the rules of the group. In committees or small boards, the president votes along with the other members. However, in assemblies or larger boards, the president should vote only when it can affect the result. At a meeting, the president only has one vote (i.e. the president cannot vote twice and cannot override the decision of the group unless the organization has specifically given the president such authority).\n\nThe powers of the president vary widely across organizations. In some organizations the president has the authority to hire staff and make financial decisions, while in others the president only makes recommendations to a board of directors, and still others the president has no executive powers and is mainly a spokesman for the organization. The amount of power given to the president depends on the type of organization, its structure, and the rules it has created for itself.\n\nIf the president exceeds the given authority, engages in misconduct, or fails to perform the duties, the president may face disciplinary procedures. Such procedures may include censure, suspension, or removal from office. The rules of the particular organization would provide details on who can perform these disciplinary procedures and the extent that they can be done. Usually, whoever appointed or elected the president has the power to discipline this officer.\n\nSome organizations may have a position of President-Elect in addition to the position of President. Generally the membership of the organization elects a President-Elect and when the term of the President-Elect is complete, that person automatically becomes President.\n\nSome organizations may have a position of Immediate Past President in addition to the position of President. In those organizations, when the term of the President is complete, that person automatically fills the position of Immediate Past President. The organization can have such a position only if the bylaws provide it. The duties of such a position would also have to be provided in the bylaws.\n\n"}
{"id": "51952466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51952466", "title": "Punjab Land Alienation Act, 1900", "text": "Punjab Land Alienation Act, 1900\n\nThe Punjab Land Alienation Act of 1900 was a piece of legislation introduced by the British Raj with the aim of limiting the transfer of land ownership in Punjab Province. It created a \nan \"agricultural tribes\" category, the membership of which was almost compulsory to buy or sell land.\n\nThe advent of British rule in India had led to a trend whereby ownership rights to land were increasingly concentrated in the hands of urban moneylenders and other commercial communities among the Hindu population. They were assigned the property previously held by poor peasants, who either sold or mortgaged for the short-term benefit derived from the increasing values of land caused by improved agricultural methods, irrigation and communications. Such transfers were enforceable under law but, in British eyes, potentially damaging to their colonial administration because they might ultimately result in a disaffected rural peasant population. British law was effectively supporting the growth of a class of people — the new owners — that might prove detrimental to its own purpose. In addition, historian Kenneth Jones says that the transfers were contrary to British sentiments: \"Not only did this development threaten the stability and peace of the Punjab, it also struck at the British self-image of benevolent and paternalistic protectors of the lowly peasant\".\n\nConcern about developments turned to serious debate in the 1890s and on 27 September 1899 the future Lieutenant-Governor of the Punjab, Charles Rivaz, presented the Imperial Legislative Council with a proposal titled the Punjab Alienation of Land Bill. The measure was viewed by educated Hindus in the province as being another example of Raj discrimination against their interests. In classifying people as being either \"agriculturalist\" or \"non-agriculturalist\" and limiting the transfer of land between those two groups, they saw the measure as preventing free investment of capital and reducing their opportunity to acquire the status traditionally associated with land ownership. More, with the majority of those classified as agriculturists being Muslim, the educated elite saw it as being anti-Hindu, just as their diminishing ability to gain government employment, which was once their preserve, was considered to be such.\n\nRivaz's proposed legislation reignited the interest of elite Hindu Punjabis in the Congress and Indian Association political movements, which had waned during the decade. When the Congress delegates at the 1899 gathering in Lucknow supported opposition to the proposal, it created a rift between the organisation and Punjabi Muslims and peasants. However, factional disputes among the Punjabi elite — notably, between the Arya Samajists and the Brahmos — meant that this revived enthusiasm for Congress was short-lived.\n\nThe National Unionist Party was established as a consequence of the 1900 legislation to protect the interests of agriculturists. The subsequent Punjab Land Alienation Act of 1907 further restricted the transfer of land ownership between various groups.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1523944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1523944", "title": "Rebecca Peters", "text": "Rebecca Peters\n\nRebecca Peters is a political advocate for gun control who served as Director of the International Action Network on Small Arms (IANSA) from 2002 to 2010. , Peters was listed on the IANSA board of directors.\n\nAs chair of the Australian National Coalition for Gun Control at the time of the Port Arthur massacre in 1996, Peters played a key role in the introduction of stricter gun control in Australia, an area in which she remains active today.\n\nAccording to the Umut Foundation:\nPeters received the 1996 Australian Human Rights Medal, for \"her contribution to researching, educating and lobbying for gun law reforms in Australia\".\n\nPrior to her work with IANSA, Peters worked for the Open Society Institute, a private foundation funded by George Soros.\n\nShe has been criticized by the United States National Rifle Association which claims that Peters \"is the voice and face of hatred of gun owners and Second Amendment freedoms.\"\n\nIn 2017 Peters was appointed an Officer of the Order of Australia for distinguished service to the community as an advocate and campaigner for gun control, and as a global leader in the reduction of the proliferation and misuse of small arms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25631554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25631554", "title": "Religion and politics in the United States", "text": "Religion and politics in the United States\n\nReligion in the United States is remarkable in its high adherence level compared to other developed countries. The First Amendment to the country's Constitution prevents the government from having any authority in religion, and guarantees the free exercise of religion. A majority of Americans report that religion plays a \"very important\" role in their lives, a proportion unusual among developed nations, though similar to other nations in the Americas. Many faiths have flourished in the United States, including imports spanning the country's multicultural heritage as well as those founded within the country, and have led the United States to become the most religiously diverse country in the world.\n\nHistorically, in the 19th and early 20th centuries, the two major parties polarized along ethnic and religious grounds. In the North, most Protestants were Whigs or Republicans; most Catholics were Democrats. In the South, from the 1860s to the 1980s, most whites were Democrats (after 1865) and most blacks were Republicans. see Ethnocultural politics in the United States\n\nThe majority of Americans identify themselves as Christians (71%), while non-Christian religions (including Islam, Judaism, Hindiusm, and others) collectively make up about 6% of the adult population. Another 23% of the adult population identified as having no religious affiliation. According to the American Religious Identification Survey, religious belief varies considerably across the country: 59% of Americans living in Western states report a belief in God, yet in the South (the \"Bible Belt\") the figure is as high as 86%.\n\nThe United States has more Christians than any other country in the world. Going forward from its foundation, the United States has been called a Protestant nation by a variety of sources.\n\nPoliticians frequently discuss their religion when campaigning, and many churches and religious figures are highly politically active. As important as religion is in politics, Jefferson, the third president of the United States, had to fight his way into office due to his controversial thoughts about religion. His writing was often seen as anti-Christian. It is argued that Jefferson’s win can be linked to him changing the election’s narrative from one about his own religious beliefs, to one about his tolerance of religious freedom (Lambert).\n\nHowever, to keep their status as tax-exempt organizations they must not officially endorse a candidate. There are Christians in both the Democratic Party and the Republican Party, but evangelical Christians tend to support the Republican Party whereas more liberal Christians, Catholics and secular voters tend to support the Democratic Party.\n\nEvery President and Vice President, was raised in a family with affiliations with Christian religions. Only former President John F. Kennedy, and former Vice President Joe Biden were raised in Roman Catholic families. Two former presidents, Richard Nixon and Herbert Hoover, were raised as Quakers. All the rest were raised in families affiliated with Protestant Christianity. However, many presidents have themselves had only a nominal affiliation with churches, and some never joined any church.\n\nThere has never been a Jewish President or Vice-President. The only Jewish major party candidate for either of those offices was Joe Lieberman in the Gore-Lieberman campaign of 2000 (although John Kerry and Barry Goldwater both had Jewish ancestry). Lieberman's faith is Orthodox Judaic. Some sources indicate that Jews constitute only 1.4% of the U.S. population, although others indicate that Jews comprise as much as 2.1% of the population (a significant decline from over 3% in the 1950s, chiefly due to the relatively low birthrate among Jewish Americans and high rates of out-marriage to non-Jews).\n\nWhile fundamentalist religious people are less likely to have information collected about who they will vote for, they “tend to engage mainstream political activity at higher rates than the average American\". While there is a common belief that religious voters will always vote republican that is not necessarily the case. Whether the vote is made for one party or another is noticeably based on socioeconomic status. For low income religious people, there is almost no correlation between their religious beliefs and their voting decision.George W. Bush, a Methodist, earned a slim victory over John Kerry, with voters who cited \"moral values\" (a commonly used term among religiously-inclined voters) playing a crucial part in the election. Bush’s clear victory has been directly attributed to fundamentalist Christian groups.\n\nIn 2006 Keith Ellison became the first Muslim elected to the federal government, as the representative of Minnesota's 5th congressional district. When re-enacting his swearing-in for photos, he used the copy of the Qur'an once owned by Thomas Jefferson.\n\nA Gallup Poll released in 2007 indicated that 53% of Americans would refuse to vote for an atheist as president, up from 48% in 1987 and 1999. Research shows that candidates that are perceived to be religious are considered more trustworthy.\n\nIn the 1780-1820s in New England the dominant Federalist Party was closely linked to the Congregational church; when the party collapsed, the church was disestablished. In 1800, and others elections, Federalists targeted infidelity in any form. They repeatedly charged that Republican candidates, especially Thomas Jefferson himself, were atheistic or nonreligious. Conversely, the Baptists, Methodists and other dissenters, and the religiously nonaligned, favored the Republican cause. The Baptists, in particular, made the disestablishment one of their founding principles. Hence Jefferson chose the Baptists of Connecticut to pronounce there should be a \"wall of separation\" between church and state.\n\nThe separation of church and state is a legal and political principle which advocates derive from the First Amendment to the United States Constitution, which reads, \"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof\". The phrase \"separation of church and state\", which does not appear in the Constitution itself, is generally traced to an 1802 letter by Thomas Jefferson to the Danbury Baptists, where Jefferson spoke of the combined effect of the Establishment Clause and the Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment. It has since been quoted in several opinions handed down by the United States Supreme Court.\n\nRobert N. Bellah has argued in his writings that although the separation of church and state is grounded firmly in the constitution of the United States, this does not mean that there is no religious dimension in the political society of the United States. He argued that in effect there is an American civil religion which is a nonsectarian faith with sacred symbols drawn from national history. Scholars have portrayed it as a cohesive force, a common set of values that foster social and cultural integration. Bellah's 1967 article analyzes the inaugural speech of John F. Kennedy: \"Considering the separation of church and state, how is a president justified in using the word 'God' at all? The answer is that the separation of church and state has not denied the political realm a religious dimension.\"\n\nCatholics represent the largest Christian denomination in America with over 68 million members. 85% of these Catholics found their faith to be \"somewhat\" to \"very important\" to them. In recent national elections Catholics cast 25 to 27 percent of the ballots.\n\nMembers of the Catholic Church have been active in the politics of the United States since the mid 19th century. The United States has never had an important religious party (unlike Europe and Latin America). There has never been a Catholic religious party, either local, state or national.\n\nIn 1776 Catholics comprised less than 1% of the population of the new nation, but their presence grew rapidly after 1840 with immigration from Germany, Ireland, Italy, Poland, and elsewhere in Catholic Europe from 1840 to 1914, and also from Latin America in the 20th century. Catholics now comprise 25% to 27% of the national vote, with over 68 million members today. 85% of today's Catholics report their faith to be \"somewhat\" to \"very important\" to them.\n\nFrom the mid-19th century down to 1964 Catholics were solidly Democratic, sometimes at the 80%-90% level. Religious tensions were major issues in the presidential elections of 1928 when the Democrats nominated Al Smith, a Catholic who was defeated. Catholics formed a core part of the New Deal Coalition, with overlapping memberships in the Church, labor unions, and big city machines, and the working class, all of which promoted liberal policy positions in domestic affairs and anti-communism during the Cold War. Since the election of a Catholic President in 1960, Catholics have split about 50-50 between the two major parties in national elections.\n\nReligious tensions arose once again in 1960 when the Democrats nominated John F. Kennedy, a Catholic who was elected. In 2004, with the nomination of John Kerry by the Democrats, who was at odds with the Church in the issues of abortion and same-sex marriage, his Catholic religion failed to attract significant votes, as slightly more Catholics voted for George W. Bush than for him. \n\nWith the decline of unions and big city machines, and with upward mobility into the middle classes, Catholics have drifted away from liberalism and toward conservatism on economic issues (such as taxes). Since the end of the Cold War, their strong anti-Communism has faded in importance. On social issues the Catholic Church takes strong positions against abortion and same-sex marriage and has formed coalitions with Protestant evangelicals.\n\nThe Church has been a fierce opponent of liberalized abortion laws, has formed coalitions with evangelicals to oppose abortion and has inspired political resistance to such legislation in several Western countries.\n\nCurrently, 24 of the 100 U.S. Senators are Catholics (15 Democrats, 9 Republicans). 132 of the 435 members of the House of Representatives are Catholics. The Speaker of the House, Republican Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, is Catholic. Vice President Mike Pence is also an evangelical Catholic.\n\nThe Know Nothings were a short-lived American political party in the mid-1850s. Know Nothingism was an anti-slavery party that recruited its strength from the collapse of the equally short-lived Free Soil Party and, in turn, provided the voters who formed the Republican Party and elected Abraham Lincoln to abolish slavery. The motivators of the Party's rise are considered to have been, 1.) nativist sentiment caused by the sudden, unprecedented influx of German and Irish immigrants in the late 1840s: 2. a rapid,steep decline in factory wages caused by the sudden influx of very large numbers of Irish immigrants fleeing the potato famine; 3) the threat members perceived the expansion of a slave system would pose to free labor which, in the eyes of supporters of both the Free Soil and Know Nothing movements, threatened to reduce free men to \"wage slaves,\"' and 4.) fear that land in the western territories would be awarded to wealthy slave owners rather than to small farmers. It was due to this fear that slavery would destroy the economic prospects of white working families that the Party enrolled massive numbers of voters in the wake of the Kansas–Nebraska Act of 1854. \n\nThe party is remembered for anti-Catholicism, an attitude that resulted not only from the fact that America was an almost entirely Protestant country confronted for the first time by a wave of Catholic immigration, but by the fact that the Catholic Church supported slavery. The influx of Catholic immigrants in several Northern states in an era when citizenship, and the vote could be attained very rapidly after immigrating, was sufficient to make it possible that even small increments of new, Catholic immigrants would tip the balance in a national election in favor of the pro-slavery Democratic Party.\n\nReligious lines were sharply drawn. Methodists, Congregationalists, Presbyterians, Scandinavian Lutherans and other pietists in the North were tightly linked to the Republicans. In sharp contrast, liturgical groups, especially the Catholics, Episcopalians, and German Lutherans, looked to the Democratic Party for protection from pietistic moralism, especially prohibition. While both parties cut across economic class structures, the Democrats were supported more heavily by its lower tiers.\n\nCultural issues, especially prohibition and foreign language schools, became important because of the sharp religious divisions in the electorate. In the North, about 50% of the voters were pietistic Protestants who believed the government should be used to reduce social sins, such as drinking. Liturgical churches constituted over a quarter of the vote and wanted the government to stay out of personal morality issues. Prohibition debates and referendums heated up politics in most states over a period of decades, and national prohibition was finally passed in 1918 (repealed in 1932), serving as a major issue between the wet Democrats and the dry Republicans.\n\nThe Catholic Church exercised a prominent role in shaping America's labor movement. From the onset of significant immigration in the 1840s, the Church in the United States was predominantly urban, with both its leaders and congregants usually of the laboring classes. Over the course of the second half of the nineteenth century, nativism, anti-Catholicism, and anti-unionism coalesced in Republican politics, and Catholics gravitated toward unions and the Democratic Party.\n\nThe Knights of Labor was the earliest labor organization in the United States, and in the 1880s, it is estimated that at least half its membership was Catholic (including Terence Powderly, its president from 1881 onward).\n\nYet the organization came under scrutiny from some of the church hierarchy because of its similarity to other “secret societies” (e.g., the Masons) that the Church forbade its followers to join. Others believed that unions could promote better lives for workers. The matter was resolved in 1887 when Cardinal James Gibbons of Baltimore interceded in Rome against a proposed condemnation of the Knights.\n\nThis was the context in which Pope Leo XIII wrote an encyclical letter that articulated the teaching of the Church with a view to the “new things” of the modern world. In \"Rerum novarum\" (1891), Leo criticized the concentration of wealth and power, spoke out against the abuses that workers faced and demanded that workers should be granted certain rights and safety regulations. He upheld the right of voluntary association, specifically commending labor unions. At the same time, he reiterated the Church’s defense of private property, condemned socialism, and emphasized the need for Catholics to form and join unions that were not compromised by secular and revolutionary ideologies.\n\n\"Rerum novarum\" provided new impetus for Catholics to become active in the labor movement, even if its exhortation to form specifically Catholic labor unions was widely interpreted as irrelevant to the pluralist context of the United States. While atheism underpinned many European unions and stimulated Catholic unionists to form separate labor federations, the religious neutrality of unions in the United States provided no such impetus. American Catholics seldom dominated unions, but they exerted influence across organized labor. Catholic union members and leaders played important roles in steering American unions away from socialism.\n\nWhile earlier Jewish immigrants from Germany tended to be politically conservative, the wave of Eastern European Jews starting in the early 1880s, were generally more liberal or left wing and became the political majority. Many of the latter came to America with experience in the socialist, anarchist and communist movements as well as the Labor Bund, emanating from Eastern Europe. Many Jews rose to leadership positions in the early 20th century American labor movement and helped to found unions that played a major role in left wing politics and, after 1936, in Democratic Party politics. For most of the 20th century since 1936, the vast majority of Jews in the United States have been aligned with the Democratic Party. Towards the end of the 20th century and at the beginning of the 21st century, Republicans have launched initiatives to woo American Jews away from the Democratic Party.\n\nOver the past century, Jews in Europe and the Americas have traditionally tended towards the political left, and played key roles in the birth of the labor movement as well as socialism. While Diaspora Jews have also been represented in the conservative side of the political spectrum, even politically conservative Jews have tended to support pluralism more consistently than many other elements of the political right.\n\nThere are also a number of Jewish secular organizations at the local, national, and international levels. These organizations often play an important part in the Jewish community. Most of the largest groups, such as Hadassah and the United Jewish Communities (UJC), have an elected leadership. No one secular group represents the entire Jewish community, and there is often significant internal debate among Jews about the stances these organizations take on affairs dealing with the Jewish community as a whole, such as antisemitism and Israeli policies. In the United States and Canada today, the mainly secular UJC, formerly known as the United Jewish Appeal (UJA), represents over 150 Jewish Federations and 400 independent communities across North America. Every major American city has its local \"Jewish Federation\", and many have sophisticated community centers and provide services, mainly health care-related. They raise record sums of money for philanthropic and humanitarian causes in North America and Israel. Other organizations such as the Anti-Defamation League, American Jewish Congress, American Jewish Committee, American Israel Public Affairs Committee, Zionist Organization of America, Americans for a Safe Israel, B'nai B'rith and Agudath Israel represent different segments of the American Jewish community on a variety of issues. J Street was set up in 2008 to advocate for American diplomatic leadership to achieve a two-state solution and a broader regional, comprehensive peace. caters for Jewish students in universities.\n\nMuslim political organizations lobby on behalf of various Muslim political interests.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30324643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30324643", "title": "Retman", "text": "Retman\n\nRETMAN is a comics’ character, associated to Rational Emotive Behavior Therapy (REBT). Through it, REBT tries more efficiently address children, adolescents and the general public. This form of therapy approaches the treatment of emotional disorders and the promotion of mental health by modifying maladaptive/irrational behaviors and cognitions (thoughts).\n\nThe first RETMAN concept was thought up at the Albert Ellis Institute, US, in the 80s (Calvin Merrifield and Rebecca Merriefield: Call Me Retman and Have a Ball, 1979) inspired by the name Rational Emotive Therapy (that is how this form of cognitive-behavioral psychotherapy was referred to then). The prototype for the superhero was Albert Ellis himself. As “RET-Man”, Ellis is arrested by the police but not before helping a depressed jilted lover give up his thoughts of suicide in favor of more rational thinking. \nHowever, because of the high production costs at the time, the project was abandoned after the publication of a comic.\n\nThe concept was resumed in 2008, with the approval of the Albert Ellis Institute by a team of Romanian psychologists and graphic designers led by Prof. Daniel David, with a modern technology. For the first time they also investigated the efficiency of the concept in promoting psychological health and in the treatment of psychological disorders in children and adolescents (see \"Meet RETMAN\" ). The team developed the RETMAN concept in an innovative way, creating an entire system that includes: (1) therapeutic comics; (2) therapeutic stories; (3) therapeutic cartoons; and (4) the therapeutic system RoboRETMAN.\n\nThe Retman technology is being used by (selection) The Child and Adolescent Psychiatric Clinic, UMF, Cluj-Napoca, the “PsyTech” University Psychological Clinic at Babes-Bolyai, Cluj-Napoca, kindergartens and private clinical psychology/counseling/psychotherapy practices in Romania.\nIt is also used on the REThink Project, a research grant with the goal to design, develop, and evaluate a therapeutic video game accessible over the Internet, meant to be used primarily as a standalone application to promote emotional resilience in children and adolescents.\n\nThe concept was resumed by a team of designers and psychologists at the International Institute for the Advanced Studies of Psychotherapy and Applied Mental Health (link), led by “Aaron T.Beck” professor Daniel David. The institute was co-founded by the Albert Ellis Institute and Babes-Bolyai University. The concept put forward by this team was a completely changed one, using the character Superman as a model for Retman. A planet was created for Retman (Rationalia), as well as new adventures and a dangerous opponent (the evil sorcerer Irationalius)\nThe stories of Retman are based on an original story, developed by dr. Daniel David: “...Retman was the ruler of Planet Rationalia from the System of Ataraxia in the Happiness Galaxy. He lived in a town called Equilibrium and was a Great Sorcerer Psychotherapist, who is a person who helps you when you suffer and teaches you how to be happy. The Great Sorcerer Psychotherapist practiced “Retmagic” (a rational-emotional therapeutic magic). This gift had been given to him by the Almighty Creator of the World. All the inhabitants of the planet were happy because they had everything they wanted, but mostly because they wanted only what they knew they deserved. The secret of their happiness was therefore their minds and their way of thinking. But while Retman fostered rational thinking on the planet, his enemy, the Sorcerer Irationalius became envious of his power and stole the minds of the inhabitants of the planet. They became mean and envious and the whole planet was overtaken by evil and despair. Then the Almighty Creator of the World, in anger, destroyed everyone, sparing just Retman, as he was the only person whose mind Irationalius could not steal. He was sent on Earth with the goal of teaching everyone here to be rational and happy, so they wouldn’t end up like the inhabitants of Rationalia...”\nThe stories of Retman have been published in Romanian and English.\n"}
{"id": "955761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=955761", "title": "Royal Gurkha Rifles", "text": "Royal Gurkha Rifles\n\nThe Royal Gurkha Rifles (RGR) is a rifle regiment of the British Army, forming part of the Brigade of Gurkhas. Unlike other regiments in the British Army, RGR soldiers are recruited from Nepal, which is neither a dependent territory of the United Kingdom nor a member of the Commonwealth. The regiment's motto is \"Better to die than to be a coward\".\n\nThe regiment was formed as the sole Gurkha infantry regiment of the British Army following the consolidation of the four separate Gurkha regiments in 1994:\n\n\nThe amalgamations took place as follows:\n\nThe 3rd Battalion was consolidated with the 2nd Battalion in 1996 as part of run down of British forces in Hong Kong.\n\nThe Gurkhas in general and the direct predecessors of the Royal Gurkha Rifles in particular are considered to be among the finest infantrymen in the world, as is evidenced by the high regard they are held in for both their fighting skill, and their smartness of turnout on parade.\n\nIn December 1995, Lieutenant-Colonel Bijaykumar Rawat became the commanding officer of the 1st Battalion, the first Nepalese to become a battalion commander in the RGR. He oversaw the departure of the battalion from Hong Kong just before that city's transfer to Chinese control, and the battalion's relocation to Queen Elizabeth Barracks, Church Crookham in 1996.\n\nTwice during its most recent Brunei posting the 2nd Battalion was deployed as the Afghanistan Roulement Infantry Battalion, while the 1st Battalion deployed as part of 52 Infantry Brigade in late 2007. During this tour, Cornet Harry Wales (Prince Harry) was attached for a period to the 1st Battalion as a Forward Air Controller.\n\nUnder Army 2020, the regiment was intended to provide two light role battalions, rotating between Brunei and the UK, with their higher unit as 11th Infantry Brigade. However, in June 2015, the 2nd Battalion, then based in the UK, was reassigned to form part of 16 Air Assault Brigade, in the air assault infantry role.\n\nIn 2018, the UK Government announced that it intended to recruit more than 800 new posts to the Brigade of Gurkhas. Approximately 300 of these are planned for the Royal Gurkha Rifles, which will see the formation of a new battalion planned for the specialist infantry role.\n\nThe first battalion (1 RGR) is based at Shorncliffe, near Folkestone in Kent as part of 16 Air Assault Brigade, and is available for deployment to most areas in Europe and Africa.\n\nThe second battalion (2 RGR) is based at the British garrison in Brunei as part of Britain's commitment to maintaining a military presence in Southeast Asia.\n\nThe third battalion (3 RGR) is being raised as of August 2018, and will become the 3rd battalion of the Royal Gurkha Rifles. The battalion will also be the first battalion in the Gurkhas to accept women.\n\nA post on the Gurkha Brigade website in August 2016 noted that the RGR will grow in personnel size in the future.\n\nIn addition to the two operation battalions, two further units are cap badged as Royal Gurkha Rifles:\n\n\nThese two are formed as operational training units at the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst and the Infantry Battle School, to provide opposing forces for realistic battle simulation.\n\nPrior to 2011, administrative support for the entire Brigade of Gurkhas was provided by specially trained personnel called Gurkha clerks, who wore the cap badge of the Royal Gurkha Rifles. In June 2011, the Gurkha clerks were amalgamated into a single company sized unit called the Gurkha Staff and Personnel Support Company (GSPS), which was incorporated as part of the Adjutant General's Corps. As with the other Gurkha support units (Queen's Gurkha Engineers, Queen's Gurkha Signals, Queen's Own Gurkha Logistic Regiment), the GSPS received its own cap badge based on the badge of its parent corps.\n\nCorporal Dip Prasad Pun of the 1st battalion (1 RGR) was awarded the Conspicuous Gallantry Cross for an act of bravery during the War in Afghanistan in 2010. He alone defended his outpost against a force of up to 12 Taliban fighters. He fired more than 400 rounds, 17 grenades, and one mine. He resorted to fighting with his machine gun tripod after his ammunition had run out.\n\nThe battle honours of the Royal Gurkha Rifles are as follows:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12273600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12273600", "title": "Social Democratic Party in the GDR", "text": "Social Democratic Party in the GDR\n\nThe Social Democratic Party in the GDR () was a reconstituted Social Democratic Party existing during the last phase of the East German state. Slightly less than a year after its creation it merged with the West German Social Democratic Party of Germany.\n\nWhat became East Germany was traditionally the heartland for the SPD in united Germany. In 1946, the Soviet occupation authorities forced the eastern branch of the SPD to merge with the eastern branch of the Communist Party of Germany to form the Socialist Unity Party of Germany (SED). Within a short time, however, the few independent-minded members from the SPD side of the merger had been pushed out, and the SED became a full-fledged Communist party–essentially the KPD under a new name.\n\nEarly in 1989, the Protestant theologians Markus Meckel and Martin Gutzeit took the initiative to revive a Social Democratic Party in the GDR. The two made organisational preparations and in April 1989 produced the first draft of the foundation appeal. In August, the appeal was presented at the \"Golgathagemeinde\" parish in Berlin. The appeal was signed by Meckel, Gutzeit, director and human rights advocate Ibrahim Böhme and theologian Arndt Noack.\n\nCalling for the foundation of a political party outside of the system of the National Front was a direct challenge to the political system of the GDR and especially to the SED, whose basis was undermined by the mere existence of a Social Democratic Party. The SED based its claim to power on being the sole representative of the working class.\n\nOn 7 October 1989, forty or fifty people, mostly from Berlin and the southern parts of the country, assembled at the vicarage of Schwante, a town near Berlin, and founded the Social Democratic Party in the GDR. The party chose the abbreviation SDP to avoid associations with the SPD that had merged into the SED, and also to brand itself as independent of the West German SPD. Stephan Hilsberg, a programmer, was elected as the first party spokesman, while Ibrahim Böhme became manager.\n\nBetween October and December, local groups of the SDP were formed in different towns. From 7 December 1989, two representatives of the party participated in the \"Round Table\" talks between Prime Minister Hans Modrow, who had become the de facto leader of East Germany after the SED surrendered its monopoly of power a week earlier, and various opposition groups. The talks resulted in representatives of the opposition groups joining Modrow's cabinet as ministers without portfolio until free elections to the People's Chamber could be held. On 29 January, Walter Romberg became the first Social Democrat appointed to the cabinet.\nOn 13 January 1990, the party's first \"Conference of Delegates\" assembled in Berlin and decided to change the short form of the party name to SPD, to conform with (and profit from association with) the West German SPD. At the same time, party organisation was created at the level of districts and regions.\n\nElections were scheduled for 18 March. Three weeks before that date, the SPD held its first party congress from 22 to 25 February 1990 in Leipzig. The congress decided on a basic manifesto and a statute of the party and also elected an executive board, with Böhme serving as party chairman and Meckel as one of his deputies.\n\nThe election yielded disappointing results for the Social Democrats. Instead of gaining an absolute majority, as they had expected, they won 21.9% of the vote, resulting in 88 seats and second place. The party fared best in the districts of Berlin (34.9%), Potsdam (34.4%) and Frankfurt (Oder) (31.9%), and by far worst in the district of Dresden (9.7%). When the new parliament constituted itself, Social Democrat Reinhard Höppner was elected vice-president of the People's Chamber.\n\nAfter internal debates the party members agreed to coalition talks with the winner of the election, the centre-right \"Alliance for Germany\", consisting of the CDU, the DSU and Democratic Awakening, as well as with the \"Alliance of Free Democrats\", an alliance of liberal parties. On 12 April, Lothar de Maizière of the CDU formed a grand coalition cabinet including six Social Democrats, among them Markus Meckel (foreign affairs), Regine Hildebrandt (social issues) and Walter Romberg (finance). The SPD initially supported de Maizière's policy of speedy reunification with West Germany, but left the cabinet on 20 August.\nIbrahim Böhme was slated to have been a senior minister in the government. However, during the coalition talks he had been unmasked as a longtime Stasi informer by the West German news magazine \"Der Spiegel\". Though Böhme failed to acknowledge this, he agreed to suspend his party functions (he was later expelled from the party in 1992). On 8 April 1990, Meckel was chosen as the interim chairman, until an extraordinary meeting in Halle (Saale) on 9 June 1990 elected Wolfgang Thierse as the new party chairman. At the same time, Willy Brandt, former Chancellor of West Germany and honorary chairman of the West German SPD, was elected as honorary chairman of the East German SPD as well.\n\nWith German reunification approaching on 3 October 1990, the East German SPD held a final party congress on 26 September 1990, and decided to merge with the West German SPD. The following day, Wolfgang Thierse joined the unified party's executive board and was also appointed deputy chairman. He resigned from the latter position in 2005 but remained a member of the party executive until 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "7236495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7236495", "title": "The New World Order (Wells)", "text": "The New World Order (Wells)\n\nThe New World Order is a book written by H. G. Wells, originally published in January 1940. Wells expressed the idea that a 'new world order' should be formed to unite the nations of the world in order to bring peace and end war.\n\"The New World Order\" also advocates a legal system that would protect \nthe Rights of Man. \nIt was republished in 2007 under .\n\n"}
{"id": "2075551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2075551", "title": "Ultra-leftism", "text": "Ultra-leftism\n\nThe term ultra-leftism has two overlapping uses. One usage (\"historical ultra-left\" below) is as a generally pejorative term for certain types of positions on the far-left that are extreme or intransigent. The other usage refers to a particular current of Marxist communism, in which the Communist International repudiated social democratic parties (and all other progressive groupings outside of the CP). Pejoratively, \"ultra-left\" is used to label the CP's radical leftist politics as a strategy of pursuing positions without taking notice of the current situation or of the consequences that would result from following a proposed course. \n\nUltra-leftism within and outside the Communist International was evident in periods when political groupings pursued council communism and left communism. \n\nThe term \"ultra left\" is rarely used in English. Instead, people tend to speak broadly of left communism as a variant of traditional Marxism. The French equivalent, \"\", has a stronger meaning in that language and is used to define a movement that still exists today: a branch of left communism developed by theorists such as Amadeo Bordiga, Otto Rühle, Anton Pannekoek, Herman Gorter, and Paul Mattick, and continuing with more recent writers, such as Jacques Camatte and Gilles Dauvé. This standpoint includes two main traditions, a Dutch-German tradition including Rühle, Pannekoek, Gorter and Mattick, and an Italian tradition following Bordiga. These traditions came together in the 1960s French ultra-gauche. The political theorist Nicholas Thoburn refers to these traditions as the \"actuality of... the historical ultra-left\". \n\nThe term originated in the 1920s in the German and Dutch workers movements, originally referring to a Marxist group opposed to both Bolshevism and social democracy, and with some affinities with anarchism. The ultra-left is defined particularly by its breed of anti-authoritarian Marxism, which generally involves an opposition to the state and to state socialism, as well as to parliamentary democracy and wage labour. In opposition to Bolshevism, the ultra left generally places heavy emphasis upon the autonomy and self-organisation of the proletariat. As Dauvé put it:\nThe ultra-left was born and grew in opposition to Social Democracy and Leninism—which had become Stalinism. Against them it affirmed the revolutionary spontaneity of the proletariat. The German communist left (in fact German-Dutch), and its derivatives, maintained that the only human solution lay in proletarians' own activity, without it being necessary to educate or to organize them [...] Inheriting the mantle of the ultra-left after the war, the magazine \"Socialisme ou Barbarie\" appeared in France between 1949 and 1965.\nThe ideas of the historical ultra-left were widely revived in the New Left of the 1960s, and particularly in the May 1968 moment in libertarian socialist movements such as Big Flame, the Situationist International, and autonomism.\n\nUsed pejoratively, \"ultra-left\" is used to label positions that are adopted without taking notice of the current situation or of the consequences which would result from following a proposed course. The term is used to criticize leftist positions that, for example, are seen as overstating the tempo of events, propose initiatives that overestimate the current level of militancy, or which employ a highly militant tone in their propaganda.\nThe mainstream Marxist critique of such a position began with Vladimir Lenin's \"\", which attacked those (such as Anton Pannekoek or Sylvia Pankhurst) in the nascent Communist International, who refused to work with parliamentary or reformist socialists. Lenin characterised the ultra-left as a politics of purity—the doctrinal \"repetition of the 'truths' of pure communism\". Leninists typically used the term against their rivals on the left: \"the Communist Party's Betty Reid wrote in a 1969 pamphlet \"Ultra-Leftism in Britain\" that the CPGB made 'no exclusive claim to be the only force on the left', but dismissed the groups to the left of the CPGB as the 'ultra-left', with Reid outlining the ultra-left as groups that were Trotskyist, anarchist or syndicalist or those that 'support the line of the Communist Party of China during the Sino-Soviet Split' (pp. 7–8)\".\n\nTrotskyists and others stated the Communist International was pursuing a strategy of unrealistic ultra-leftism during its Third Period, which the Communist International later admitted when it turned to a United Front strategy in 1934–5. The term has been popularised in the United States by the Socialist Workers Party at the time of the Vietnam war, using the term to both describe opponents in the anti-war movement including Gerry Healy. Ultra-leftism is often associated with leftist sectarianism, in which a socialist organisation might attempt to put its own short-term interests before the long-term interests of the working class and its allies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13980092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13980092", "title": "Victorian Charter of Human Rights and Responsibilities", "text": "Victorian Charter of Human Rights and Responsibilities\n\nThe Charter of Human Rights and Responsibilities Act 2006 is an Act of Parliament of the state of Victoria, Australia, designed to protect and promote human rights. \n\nIt does so by enumerating a series of human rights, largely developed from those in the International Covenant of Civil and Political Rights, along with a number of enforcement provisions. The Act came into full effect on 1 January 2008 and may operate in a similar way to the UK's Human Rights Act 1998 or the Canadian Bill of Rights.\n\nThe Act protects twenty one fundamental human rights, including:\n\n\n\nAustralia is the only democratic country in the world not have a Bill of Rights (or similar protections). In order to go some way toward addressing this, in 2005 the Australian Capital Territory (ACT) undertook steps to implement the Human Rights Act 2004 to formally protect \"de facto\" freedom, respect, equality and dignity in the jurisdiction. \n\nThe Victorian Labor Government, in 2005 under the Bracks Ministry, engaged in community consultation for a Human Rights act similar to those implemented in the ACT and the UK's Human Rights Act 1998. Attorney-General of Victoria Rob Hulls argued that a Bill of Rights would \"strengthen our democracy and set out our rights in one accessible place.\" After community consultation, including input from the Australian Human Rights Commission, the act was introduced and debated in Parliament on 2 May 2008. The Victorian Charter of Human Rights and Responsibilities Act 2006 received royal assent on 25 July 2006 and came into full effect on 1 January 2008.\n\nAs state-based legislation the Act does not provide protections outside of Victorian jurisdiction; any federal legislation takes precedence regardless of the infringement of any rights. The charter also affords Parliament the power to suspend or infringe rights in exceptional circumstances, such as when facing a serious security threat or a state of emergency.\n\nCourts do not have the authority to strike down impeding legislation, but are able to interpret statutory provisions in a way that is compatible with human rights.\n"}
{"id": "19979025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19979025", "title": "Wartime Broadcasting Service", "text": "Wartime Broadcasting Service\n\nThe Wartime Broadcasting Service was a service of the BBC that was intended to broadcast in the United Kingdom either after a nuclear attack or if conventional bombing destroyed regular BBC facilities in a conventional war.\n\nThe origins of the service lie in pre-World War II plans to disperse BBC staff to facilities such as Wood Norton to guarantee due functioning of the corporation if cities such as London, Belfast, Cardiff, Glasgow and Edinburgh were attacked by the Luftwaffe.\n\nIn the post-war era, plans were revised so that the Wartime Broadcasting Service would have coped with a nuclear strike by installing 54 low-powered transmitters and keeping (what remained of) the main transmitter network in reserve, in case Soviet bombers used them to home in on targets. Although vague, plans from the mid-1950s were to provide both a national and regional radio service 24 hours a day (mirroring peacetime BBC operations at the time) with the objective of providing \"instruction, information and encouragement as far as practical by means of guidance, news and diversion to relieve stress and strain\". \"Diversion\" was to be in the form of music and selected pre-recorded programmes. BBC executives drafted a schedule made up of music, drama, comedy, and religious programmes to be broadcast over a period of 100 days after a nuclear attack on the United Kingdom.\nThe BBC had studios and production equipment at many government nuclear bunkers such as the Central Government War Headquarters at Corsham and the Regional Seats of Government.\n\nBy the end of the decade, existing transmitters had been fitted with emergency diesel generators and fallout protection.\n\nFrom the 1980s, the BBC planned to broadcast for only a few hours a day and for a few minutes each hour, the intention being to conserve the batteries in domestic radios. There was to be no entertainment content for this reason and so that official messages could get through. With the end of the Cold War, the BBC deactivated the studios and emergency transmitter networks in 1993 as surplus to requirements. Many of these studios have become exhibits in bunkers, like the Kelvedon Hatch Secret Nuclear Bunker, which have now been converted into museums.\n\nWith the Cold War having ended, the BBC and British Telecom developed the National Attack Warning System in 2003. This system was able to warn by television, radio and telephone (the latter only in some areas) of an impending attack using existing infrastructure. The BBC was capable of doing so within ten minutes using their existing broadcasting procedures. By the time of the 2011 digital switchover, this was becoming obsolete because television and radio have limited warning capability.\nAccording to a report in the Daily Telegraph, there were suggestions that the warning message would be recorded by Jill Dando, actress Joanna Lumley or Carol Vorderman.\nUnder the Broadcasting Act 1980, the government still has the legal right to take over editorial control of radio and television in the event of a national emergency. Also, the BBC agreement allows the government to ask the BBC to broadcast messages in an emergency:\n\n\"If it appears to any UK Government Minister that an emergency has arisen, that Minister may request that the BBC broadcast or otherwise distribute any announcement or other programme.\"\n\nThe decision to activate the service would have been taken at Cabinet level late in the crisis phase. On being given the order, the BBC and ITV were to suspend normal programming, broadcast the frequencies for the Wartime Broadcasting Service and go off-air an hour later (with television used only to broadcast \"Protect and Survive\" public information films and unavailable after an attack due to its susceptibility to electromagnetic pulse). At this point, one single national programme would have been broadcast on BBC Radio 4 from \"Wood Norton\". This would have consisted of official government announcements and information interspersed with filler material, such as music, news and warnings. The four-minute warning itself was to have been injected from a special studio at Broadcasting House and been broadcast nationally on all television and radio stations when a coded signal from RAF High Wycombe was given. This studio would also have been used by government ministers to broadcast messages and announcements until the government left London late in the crisis phase (or during the precautionary period).\n\nAfter an attack, there would also have been a regional service tailored to local needs located in regional seats of government. Regional controllers were to use these smaller BBC studios to give out local messages to communities and would have been manned by BBC staff. If conventional air attacks destroyed peacetime broadcasting facilities, the Wartime Broadcasting Service would also have been activated.\n\nRegular drills and training exercises were held to give an air of realism, but many BBC staff saw them as pointless or declined to serve during a national emergency because they couldn't take their families with them. One anonymous insider said, \"I can't blame them for deciding there were better ways to go than to sit in a bunker with a group of local radio engineers.\"\n\nIndeed, choosing staff was very difficult. In the early days of the Wartime Broadcasting Service, BBC staff were assigned to the bunkers. Later, they were invited, but some staff opted out because either they were not allowed to take wives and children with them, saw them as pointless, or were sceptical as to whether it would work . They were not allowed to tell their families on grounds of national security. For instance, Huw Weldon \"refused to take part in matters dealing with war time broadcasting\".\n\nThe WTBS bunker at Wood Norton would be manned by ninety people, including the head of BBC Radio 4, BBC engineers, twelve news editors, sub editors, announcers and what was ominously described as \"two nominations from Religious Broadcasting\". Regional Seats of Government would have similar arrangements, staffed by people from BBC local radio.\n\nWhen staff were selected, they would be given a letter giving basic information. If war loomed closer, a second letter would be sent, telling them:\n\n\"You have been selected for emergency duty and you will be going to \" (location would be given in the letter). It rather delicately told BBC staff: \"The length of your stay cannot be foreseen, but it might be several weeks.\" Therefore, they were advised to take clothes, soap and towels enough to last a month, as well as books and \"small recreational items\".\n\nAlthough those selected were not given extra pay, they were paid a £250 advance on their wages.\n\nInitially, a post-attack statement (see below) was to be broadcast confirming a nuclear strike had hit the United Kingdom and warning of the dangers of fallout. It would have been broadcast every two hours on all radio frequencies set aside for the BBC for the first twelve hours after the attack. The script was released by the BBC under the Freedom of Information Act on 3 October 2008.\n\nJim Black, a BBC executive, compiled a schedule consisting of classic BBC drama, comedy and religious programmes to maintain morale. These included \"Round The Horne\", \"I'm Sorry, I Haven't A Clue\", \"Hancock's Half Hour\" and the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical \"The Sound of Music\". Drama programmes included \"The Afternoon Play\" and \"Thirty-Minute Theatre\". From the 1980s until 1993, the entertainment content was dropped and only official announcements would have been broadcast in order to conserve energy.\n\nThe following is the script of an official statement that would have been broadcast on the Wartime Broadcasting Service in the hours after an attack. It was recorded by Peter Donaldson, chief continuity announcer for BBC Radio 4 (the designated national broadcaster in a national emergency):\n\n\n\n"}
