{"id": "8205394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8205394", "title": "Alfred W. Crosby", "text": "Alfred W. Crosby\n\nAlfred W. Crosby Jr. (January 15, 1931, Boston, Massachusetts – March 14, 2018, Nantucket Island) was Professor Emeritus of History, Geography, and American Studies at the University of Texas at Austin, Harvard University and University of Helsinki. He was the author of such books as \"The Columbian Exchange\" (1972) and \"\" (1986). In these works, he provided biological and geographical explanations for the question why Europeans were able to succeed with relative ease in what he referred to as the Neo-Europes of Australasia, North America, and southern South America.\n\nCrosby studied at Harvard University and Boston University.\n\nCrosby was an inter-disciplinary researcher who combined the fields of history, geography, biology and medicine. Recognizing the majority of modern-day wealth is located in Europe and the Neo-Europes, Crosby set out to investigate what historical causes are behind the disparity, investigating the biological factors that contributed to the success of Europeans in their quest to conquer the world. One of the important themes of his work was how epidemics affected the history of mankind. As early as the 1970s, he was able to understand the impact of the 1918 flu pandemic on world history.\n\nAccording to Hal Rothman, a Professor of History at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, Crosby “added biology to the process of human exploration, coming up with explanations for events as diverse as Cortés’ conquest of Mexico and the fall of the Inca empire that made vital use of the physical essence of humanity.”\n\nIn 1972 he created the term \"Columbian Exchange\" in his book of the same name. The term has become popular among historians and journalists, such as Charles C. Mann, whose 2011 book \"\" expands and updates Crosby's original work.\n\nCrosby was also interested in the history of science and technology. He wrote several books on this subject, dealing with the history of quantification, of projectile technology, and the history of the use of energy. He said himself that the study of history also made him a researcher of the future. He was very much interested in how humankind could make the future a better one.\n\nHe has taught at Washington State University, Yale University, the Alexander Turnbull Library in New Zealand, and twice at the University of Helsinki as a Fulbright Bicentennial Professor, most recently in 1997–98. He was appointed an academician by Finnish president Martti Ahtisaari. He retired from the chair of Professor Emeritus of History, Geography, and American Studies of the University of Texas at Austin in 1999.\n\nCrosby’s hobbies included birdwatching and jazz, on which topic he could lecture with great expertise. He was married to linguist Frances Karttunen.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9702296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9702296", "title": "Altavista petroglyph complex", "text": "Altavista petroglyph complex\n\nThe Altavista petroglyph complex is located near the village and beach-town of Chacala, south of the Compostela Municipality, in Nayarit Mexico.\n\nThe area is known as \"La Pila del Rey\", \"Chacalán\", \"El Santuario\", \"The Petroglyphs” or \"the Altavista petroglyphs\", near the Jaltemba Bay, in the Pacific Ocean of Nayarit.\n\nThis region was originally home to the largely unstudied Tecoxquin (Tequectequi) native culture dating from approximately 2000 BC to 2300 BCE. It contains 56 petroglyphs whose antiquity cannot be accurately determined. Aside from its cultural and archeological importance, the site remains an important religious center for the Huicholes who still leave offerings and perform ceremonies here.\n\nIn prehispanic times, the Compostela municipality area was inhabited by the Mazatán peoples, tributary of Xalisco-Zacualpan Kingdom.\n\nThe Tecoxquines (Aztec Group) engraved images in volcanic stone over two thousand years ago near Las Piletas. These petroglyphs perhaps were symbolic elements of everyday life, as far as health, fertility, rains, and crops. The rock carvings might have been meant as prayers or offerings to the gods responsible for these things.\n\nThere are fifteen signs (Spanish & English posted along entrance path, a brief summary is provided below:\n\nAltavista petroglyphs archaeological site, located along the sides of a creek on the slopes the Copo volcano. Covers an area of approximately 80 hectares, with a large concentration of petroglyphs. (More than 2000 engravings identified)\n\nOriginal Altavista inhabitants. This native group inhabited a vast region covering the South coast of Nayarit, neighbouring coasts, and mountainous regions of Jalisco, Mexico. They were mainly farmers, fishermen, salt producers and traders of cocoa and cotton. The Tecoxquines were organized in a number of villages under the control of Teuzacualpan Chila Valley (modern city of Zacualpan). Business links allowed them to develop an intensive trade, reached Sinaloa to the north and Colima and Michoacán to the South and East.\n\nNo doubt, many religious ceremonies at this site were based on nahualism. Nahualism or Shamanism as former religious practices whereby people communicated with their gods and spirits during altered states of consciousness. This tradition has deep roots in the region; the Nayarit word derives from the word \"nahualli\". The Tecoxquines used psychotropic plants and tobacco plants to achieve states of ecstasy and communicate with their gods.\n\nAfter the Spanish conquest, the Tecoxquines completely annihilated by epidemics and forced labor. Today native cities of the region still talk about \"white Indians,\" ghosts appearing from the mountains to honor their ancient gods.\n\nThe Tecoxquin ancient villages, as far as the Ixtapa salt producers, were populated by Tecuales, ancestors of the current Huichol.\n\nNayarit State is characterized by heavy rainfall. Rainfall is concentrated between May and October. The Altavista mountains attract heavy rains leaving drier areas to the East (desert weather at the opposite side). Perhaps because of this abundance of water, Altavista was considered a special place.\n\nTamoanchan is a mythical paradisiac location known to the Mesoamerican cultures of the central Mexican region in the Late Postclassical period, is a central part of the ancient Mesoamerican cosmology. Tamoanchan is the cosmic tree that connects life and supports the world. Its roots are underground in the water and fertility field. Its trunk is between human beings above ground and heavens. The Crown of the tree is in heaven, the kingdom of gods and rain. Tamoanchan was represented by the Ceiba tree.\n\nThe \"Guerra Florida \" (flower war) was one of the main religious practices associated with the Tecoxquines. The aim was not to conquer. Rather, get warriors prisoners for ritual sacrifice, and whose heads were cut and then offered to the gods. These wars were usually produced locally, but also conducted in places as far away as the Talpa and Mascota Valleys and Mochitiltic Canyon in Jalisco.\n\nwater was thought to be underground in ancient Mesoamerica, hence the underworld was considered a fertile place. Tlalocan was the \"water\"paradise underground. It was inhabited by the “Chanes”, or water spirits, as well as the spirits of people drowned or whose death was water related. Tlalocan also was the site of the legendary crocodile Cipactli, a \"earth monster\", symbolizing fertility.\n\nThe first historical references of the archaeological site of Altavista date from 1612. These describe many crosses, and above all, a devout Christ that local people venerates. This is possibly a reference to the \"corn man\", a figure that symbolizes fertility and growth. Local farmers leave offerings of candles and gourd bowls of salt to this figure in order to obtain fertility for their coffee and tobacco crops.\n\nDuring the early 17TH century, Spaniards believed that the Apostle Matthew traveled to the new world in prehispanic times to evangelize natives. This is thought to explain the crosses engraved in the Altavista rocks.\n\nFor Tecoxquines, as well as for most ancient Mesoamerican, the cross actually was a mental map of the cosmos. Symbolizes five sacred directions: the four cardinal points and the center. Each is associated with certain gods, colors, and sacred kingdoms, as well as each of the four trees that formed the tamoanchan kingdoms. The idea of the universe of four corners is still present among native Mexico today, symbolized by crosses, diamonds and other similar forms.\n\nThe Altavista rocks were probably associated with the mythical Tamoanchan trees connecting the underworld, earth and heaven. The prayers of the people went up through the sap of the trunks into the realm of the gods. In turn, the gifts of the gods, rain, fertility and good health returned to land the same way. For the Tecoxquines the Altavista rocks would have served the same purpose, a means of communication between the people and their gods.\n\nSpirals, wavy lines, and other symbols carved in the Altavista rocks probably constitute a ritual prayer language for the gods. As an agricultural culture, the Tocoxquines would have been concerned with rain, fertility of the land and the continuity of the seasonal rhythms that they relied on. While the exact meaning of symbols will never be known, spirals have been interpreted as the Sun, storm, the wind, the spiral snake, or as a symbol of the natural cycle of station rainy and dry.\n\nHuichol natives occasionally visit Altavista originally lived in the Nayar mountains, recently a group moved to the Las Varas area. They present offerings and perform ceremonies for Nakahue, \"our fertility grandmother\" and Tatevari, \"our grandfather of fire\". Some Huicholes also travel to the nearby Chacala Port, where ancient petroglyphs are present and leave offerings for Tatei Aramara “our mother Ocean”.\n"}
{"id": "42091735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42091735", "title": "Archaeology of Ferizaj", "text": "Archaeology of Ferizaj\n\nKosovo has a very valuable asset of archaeology but a handicap in this field are still institutional serious researches. Anyway, from up to now researches the archaeology of Kosovo is included in Encyclopedia of Global Archaeology as a country with a wealthy archaeological heritage. The favorable geostrategic and wealthy natural resources were ideal for the development of life since the prehistoric periods, proven by traces of the hundreds of archaeological sites discovered and identified throughout Kosovo, which proudly presents the rich and abundant archaeological heritage of our country.\nBy the end of 19th century came out the first scientific data for the archaeological legacy of Kosovo, owing to work of the researchers: A.Evans and F.Kanitz. The entire archaeological activity of Kosovo begins after the establishment of the Museum of Kosovo in 1949.\nFrom many world and European archaeologist is suggested that the Municipality of Ferizaj is counted among the localities that has a highly valued asset of the archaeological legacy.\n\n\"Coordinates: \"\nThree archaeologists, an architect and a draftsman, from the research in the backyard of Xhelal Berisha, in Nikadin village not far from the center of Ferizaj, have managed to finish the tracking of the foundations of a church, for which it is believed that from the Paleochristian era of the 5th and 6th centuries AD. From the researches, it came out that The Sarcophagus Lid brickyard in the foundations of the church below the floor.\n\"The Archaeological Institute of Kosovo\" have declared that \"The Sarcophagus Lid\", is evaluated as a pagan element and as such, as disrespectful act of the Christians, they bricked in the floor of the church. Many Albanian archaeologists have estimated as a big wealth finding the foundations of the Paleochristian churches. Also, while tracking have found bricks and tiling of the Roman time.\nAlthough, Ferizaj is a new city (130 years old) compared to other cities of the country, it goes back through the centuries as an Illyrian settlement on genesis too old. This is recorded in archaeological maps of many countries of the world.\n\n\"Coordinates: \"\n\nThe identified Neolithic site of Varosh is located in south-east from the city, in Varosh village. This in not archaeologically trenches, during the work on the field it was found occasional traces that remain different neolithic ceramic fragments which recorded. The majority of the revealed movable archaeology materials indicate traces of a nucleated Neolithic settlement of Starcevo and Vinca cultures. In some parcels of this archaeological site during 2011, geophysical recordings, respectively magnetometer survey were carried out, resulting with reflection of several underneath structures that might indicate the remains of the Nelothic houses. From the findings in this locality is believed to be found at other residues of an ancient civilization. In Varosh, 500 m from the wake of the church is Urns, which since 1967 lies in the Museum of Kosovo. There is believed that is a Roman-Illyrian settlement. Mysteries were busy underground since 1984, where history professor, Ymer Berisha had found a carved stone.\n\n\"Coordinates: \"\n\nThe result of \"Map Archaeological Project\" and in particular with the cooperation of German and Kosovar Institute, in 2008, was discovered an ancient locality in the Ferizaj municipality. The locality is situated in the Zllatar village in the north-east of Ferizaj, where today lies part of the American base \"Bondsteel\". By archaeological Map of Kosovo, in 2008 is said that in this village is a prehistoric settlement which belongs to the Neolithic period. \"Hopefully, at some flint artifacts, we also have indications Mesolithic a period that is very rare and controversial\". In this area approximately , were found in prehistoric times as flint and stone tools of ancient period. In 2008, in collaboration with the Archaeological Institute of Frankfurt, Kosovo archaeologists have recorded a surface field 70, where the result is obtained a view more graphics-magnetic anomalies and oval structures which result in a settlement of the Neolithic period all infrastructure such are; huts housing, worker, etc. During this year on March began with some excavation it was identified purpose of the space, location and explanation of elements such as extension spatial extent of the settlement, determining chronological continuity of time, the status of this residence, level development and relations with the settlements of this period, adding mobile archaeological material discovered in excavations, undertaken surveys came to light trace a residential or temporary residence in the continuation of that prehistoric which continued to be active during the Middle Ages. A valuable place among the findings of ceramics voice. From the standpoint of technique should be noted ceramic paper work typical of the Neolithic period in the region. Pottery discovered here is very fragmented and very damaged and mostly belongs to the prehistoric (Neolithic, Eneolithic) while not neglecting the fact fragmentary findings belonging to other periods as bronze, iron, and in some cases ancient and early Middle Ages.\n\n\"Coordinates: \"\n\nBased on the findings and existing trace in many parts of the village and archaeological discoveries casually made it appears that Komogllava is very old urbanized resident, with water supply and with all other antique objects of a city.\nKomogllava is the place in which they stand on the surface trace of the ancient Illyrian-Dardan, toponym Mountain Church, which was passed from generation to generation, there was only a starting point for exploring in the area for traces of the distant past, while fragments from remote times, had already begun to reveal the earth.\nThe foundations of this church are unfolding day by day with them the other fragments that document the existence of life in this country. In this locality were found Vase, from ceramic pots, coins, jewellery, items of iron and other carbonaceous substances, but also the characteristic stone, believed to have moved from coastal areas to build the sarcophagus and other items objects of strong high. Unfortunately, few of these objects are preserved today. The elderly of this country have shown that many incidentally or intentionally traveler, had passed there, and of children in exchange for a toy they received finding artifacts that had sprouted during tillage land, opening the foundations of houses or wells. It is believed that the church should meet 1st century BC, but was rebuilt in the medieval period at the time of the Byzantine Empire. Locality is an ancient urbanized streets, sewage and other infrastructure.\nPotters found here less resembles those found in other places, but has an analogy between fragments. Potter believe belongs Dardanian period, then the sewage pipes are very interesting, but also has material that is interesting conceive each and worth studying, indicating that Komogllava is among the few countries that has a water supply system of this period, which even today is derived, but it is not known water source.\n\n"}
{"id": "20877929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20877929", "title": "Boga (noisemaker)", "text": "Boga (noisemaker)\n\nThe boga or PVC cannon is a noisemaker popular during New Year celebrations in the Philippines. Use of the device has been banned by the Philippine government since 2006.\n\nOriginating from the province of Cavite, the device is made from a length of pipe of substantial diameter mated to a toy gun. Denatured alcohol (sometimes paint thinner or acetone) is squirted or sprayed into the pipe's breech end and ignited by the toy gun's trigger mechanism which is connected to a piezo igniter or by putting small fire. The combination of air and flammable fuel in the pipe's enclosed space when ignited by a spark from the trigger mechanism or by small fire causes the fuel-air mixture to combust, resulting in a loud, booming sound.\n\nThe first prototype is made from segmented tin cans connected with packaging tapes or electrical tapes and cut PET bottles (which is still used) and later design is made of PVC pipes. Other modifications of boga are introduced such as firing round projectiles which can be used as a weapon and pet bottles as breech end.\n\nThe Department of Health has repeatedly warned against use of the noisemaker, which they deem to be dangerous as its use carries a risk of blast or burn injury. A ban was ordered on 27 December 2005 against the use of the devices for the impending New Year celebrations. Officials cited a variety of possible injuries from use of the device, mostly involving delayed explosions to the facial region resulting in eye injury, among others. Post-traumatic conjunctivitis was cited as one of the noted effects.\n\nUsers of the device mostly are children and teenage boys, tend to prematurely open the boga whenever it fails to fire, causing any delayed blasts to fire upon the unsuspecting user's face. Of 178 firecracker-related injuries recorded for the 2006 season (as of December 28) so far, eighteen percent were confirmed to have been caused by use of boga. In December 2007, health department officials maintained the ban on the devices, reminding the public with press releases, flyers and awareness campaigns.\n\nThe PVC cannon is a prohibited weapon in the Australian state of New South Wales, along with other devices which are designed to propel or launch a bomb, grenade, rocket or missile by any means other than an explosive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3661366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3661366", "title": "Building Harlequin's Moon", "text": "Building Harlequin's Moon\n\nBuilding Harlequin's Moon is a science fiction novel by Larry Niven and Brenda Cooper. The novel is set in the distant future as a group of space travellers, marooned in an inhospitable planetary system, attempt to terraform a moon and create a sufficient civilisation on it to refuel their ship so they can continue to their original destination.\n\nA couple of centuries from the present, artificial intelligences and nanotechnology are in widespread use in the Solar System and in some cases have caused disasters. Some people do not trust these technologies and plan a simpler life in a distant planetary system, where they plan to terraform a planet called Ymir. Once Ymir is habitable, they will abandon use of all advanced technology. Three sleeper ships leave the Solar System bound for Ymir, using suspended animation to keep the crew and settlers alive during the sub light-speed journey. While in transit, all communication with the Solar System ends; by implication, human civilisation has fallen. The lead ship, \"John Glenn\", is crippled by a design flaw en route, and uses all its antimatter fuel to reach the nearest star system, Apollo. It warns the other two ships, which can correct the flaw, but there is no word from them about whether they reach Ymir.\n\nThe \"John Glenn\" creates a substantial moon around the gas giant Harlequin by colliding several smaller moons together, and give it an atmosphere, seas, and the beginnings of an ecosystem. This takes 60,000 years, with almost all the passengers of the ship in hibernation during the entire time. The person in charge of creating and terraforming the new moon, Selene, is Gabriel.\n\nApart from a brief prologue, the novel begins as the second generation of people born on Selene approach adulthood.\n\nGabriel is teaching a group of moon-born teenagers about agriculture. Rachel is one of these; she passes her exams and is selected by Gabriel to become a leader of the moon-born. Andrew is another; he fails his exams because he plays a practical joke on Rachel. Gabriel takes Rachel to the \"John Glenn\". As the first moon-born to visit the ship, she arouses hostility from some of the leaders there. She learns that there are three classes amongst the space travelers: five are High Council, who rule until Ymir is reached; some dozens are Council, including Gabriel, and have extended privileges; and the remaining \"Earth-born\" are colonists, many of them not having been unfrozen since leaving Earth and with few rights. She also learns to use the vast repository of knowledge in the ship's library, and makes contact with the AI \"Astronaut\" who is kept severely restricted because the High Council doesn't trust high technology. Rachel comes to realise that when the moon-born have helped restock the ship with antimatter the \"John Glenn\" will continue on to Ymir without them, leaving them on a moon that can only sustain life for a century or two.\n\nGabriel decides there is no immediate need for him and Rachel to return to Selene, and that as a leader Rachel would be most useful with the longer lifespan that is conferred by the suspended animation process, and has himself and Rachel frozen for a year. Problems with radiation flares intervene, and without Gabriel to stand up for her, they are left frozen for twenty years. Rachel returns to Selene to find her best friend killed in an accident, her boyfriend married and with children almost her own age, and her remaining friends more than twice as old as she is. She also realizes that the moon-born are being treated as slaves, with Earth-born as overseers. The moon-born must develop the technological infrastructure to refine antimatter, but there are major risks involved in the refining which could destroy the population of Selene.\n\nRachel becomes a teacher of the next generation of moon-born. She teaches them what she is supposed to, but she also includes concepts from Earth history that she learns from the library and Astronaut - concepts such as democracy and passive resistance. She has a few friends among Council, and Astronaut is able to conceal her communications with them from other Council and High Council. Andrew (a childhood enemy) plays a more active role in stirring up rebellion, but the moon-born have no power to change their role. The Council notices the passive resistance and their members begin carrying weapons. Some years later, one of the ship's boats crash lands on Selene and is abandoned there. It has sufficient electronics to house an AI, and Rachel's Council friends make a copy of Astronaut there, Vassal, unknown to High Council.\n\nTen years after Rachel was unfrozen, an accident leads to a Council member shooting one of the moon-born. Andrew leads a revolt and takes a Council member hostage. The rebellion is halted by a flare which requires everyone to shelter together, and by Rachel's heroic intervention. In the wake of the rebellion, a new understanding is reached between the moon-born and the High Council. They will work more as equals, and the refinement of the antimatter will take place at a safe distance from Selene. The travellers will leave more technology behind when they leave (including the copy of Astronaut) so Selene can survive. This is at a cost of delaying their departure significantly. Gabriel decides he will remain on Selene when \"John Glenn\" departs.\n\nA final, short, section of the novel sums up the next two hundred years, with the antimatter refined, the flare problem on Selene permanently dealt with, and \"John Glenn\" preparing for departure. Periods of suspended animation keep Rachel and Gabriel young.\n\nThere is room for a sequel, dealing with either or both of the futures of \"John Glenn\" and Ymir, and of Selene.\n\n"}
{"id": "42731755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42731755", "title": "Chadwick modular seating", "text": "Chadwick modular seating\n\nChadwick Modular Seating is a modular sofa that is composed of one or more sections that can be arranged to create long, contiguous seating surfaces for offices and homes. Multiple section shapes were produced in many fabrics and colors. Sections were available in straight, wedge and elbow shapes.\n\nDon Chadwick designed the system in 1974 for Herman Miller.\n\n"}
{"id": "2066968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2066968", "title": "Choir dress", "text": "Choir dress\n\nChoir dress is the traditional vesture of the clerics, seminarians and religious of Christian churches worn for public prayer and the administration of the sacraments except when celebrating or concelebrating the Eucharist. It differs from the vestments worn by the celebrants of the Eucharist, being normally made of fabrics such as wool, cotton or silk, as opposed to the fine brocades used in vestments. It may also be worn by lay assistants such as acolytes and choirs. It was abandoned by most of the Churches which originated in the sixteenth-century Reformation.\n\nLike Eucharistic vestments it derived originally from the formal secular dress of the Roman Empire in the first centuries of the Christian era which survived in church usage after fashion had changed.\n\nChoir dress also differs from \"house dress\" which is worn outside of a liturgical context (whether in the house or on the street). House dress may be either formal or informal.\n\nChoir dress in the Catholic Church is worn by deacons, priests, regular prelates, bishops and cardinals when presiding at or celebrating a liturgy that is not the Mass, especially the Liturgy of the Hours.\nBefore the Second Vatican Council the dress was more elaborate, and had dozens of varieties and colours. After The Second Vatican Council, it was reduced, however exceptions are sometimes granted for cathedral chapters.\n\nThe current dress is worn when attending Mass without celebrating or observing the Eucharist. It is worn by seminarians, instituted lectors and acolytes, and altar servers and choir members at Mass or other liturgical events.\n\nThe basic components of choir dress are:\n\nFor seminarians, deacons, and priests the cassock is exactly the same as their normal cassock: a black cassock with black buttons, girded with a black fascia.\n\nPriests who hold additional honors may wear a different cassock: Chaplains of His Holiness wear a black cassock with purple piping, buttons, and fascia, while Honorary Prelates and Protonotaries apostolic wear a purple cassock with scarlet piping and buttons with a purple fascia. A black cassock with amaranth piping and buttons, girded with a purple fascia, serves as pian dress (academic dress) for an honorary prelate or protonotary apostolic. Canons may wear the rochet (if the chapter has been granted usus rochetti by papal indult) with a distinctive mozzetta, the particular colors of which are determined by the chapter.\n\nBishops wear the above-mentioned purple cassock with scarlet piping, and add a pectoral cross suspended from a green and gold cord, a mozzetta over the rochet, and a purple zucchetto under the biretta. A cardinal wears a scarlet cassock with scarlet trim, pectoral cross on a red and gold cord and a red mozzetta over the rochet, with a red zucchetto. The Pope's choir dress includes a white cassock, rochet, red silk mozetta, red brocade stole and his pectoral cross hangs from a golden cord. Some canons wear their cross on a ribbon, but only a bishop may wear the cross on a cord. Under new regulations, neither bishops nor canons wear fur trimmed cappas.\n\nThe cope and/or stole may be worn over choir dress when a cleric presides over a sacrament (for instance, at matrimony, if not celebrated during Mass), or by the cleric presiding over prayers (for instance, the priest presiding at a solemn celebration of Vespers in the Liturgy of the Hours at a seminary might wear cope and stole over choir dress, while the priests of the faculty and seminarians would wear simple choir dress of cassock and surplice).\n\nMonks who are neither deacons nor priests also have a form of choir dress: the full monastic habit with the monastic cowl forms their formal wear for attending the Liturgy of the Hours or Mass.\n\nSince 2006, priests of the Institute of Christ the King Sovereign Priest have had their own choir dress, given to them by the Cardinal Archbishop of Florence. Their choir dress includes a rochet, a mozzetta, the cross of St. Francis de Sales on a blue and white ribbon, and a biretta with a blue pom. According to the Institute, \"The blue stands for our complete dedication to the Blessed Mother and is traditionally the color shown on St. Francis de Sales in most paintings of him,\" and \"The choir dress expresses the strong unity, spiritually, and identity of the Institute and adds solemnity to the liturgy.\" \n\nThe choir dress of clergy in the Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox and Eastern Catholic churches are relatively similar. Over the inner cassock (\"rasson\" or \"podrasnik\"), a deep-sleeved \"exorason\" (\"riassa\"), which is often black, is worn. In the Russian Orthodox Church, married clergy often wear grey, while monastic clergy wear black. During the paschal season both monastic and married clergy will often wear a white inner cassock. Some Russian Metropolitans wear a white inner cassock and a blue outer when formally arriving to celebrate the Divine Liturgy.\n\nIn Eastern Orthodoxy and Byzantine Catholicism, monks wear a black cloak, the \"mandyas\" over the outer cassock. The mandyas completely covers the monastic below the chin and reaches to the floor. In the Greek usage, the mandyas is usually only worn when performing certain liturgical roles; in the Slavic usage, all monks and nuns of the rank of Stavrophore or above wear the mandyas at every service, so long as they are in their own monastery. The mandyas of an hegumen (abbot) is of black silk, that of an archimandrite or bishop is of colored silk (specific usages will differ by jurisdiction), and has four square \"tablets\" on it: two at the neck and two at the feet. A bishop's mandyas additionally has \"rivers\" on it: three horizontal stripes either of gold (Greek practice) or red and white (Slavic practice).\n\nMonastic clergy wear different headcoverings than married clergy. Married clergy wear either a colored \"kalimaukion\" or \"skufia\"; monastic clergy wear a black kalimaukion and veil (together known as the \"klobuk\"). For monastics, the skufia is reserved for house dress, and the klobuk is worn in church. Russian archbishops have a jewelled cross attached to the front of their klobuks; Russian Metropolitans wear a white klobuk with jewelled cross. Several Orthodox Patriarchs wear a rounded headcovering called a koukoulion.\n\nPriests who have been awarded a pectoral cross wear it with their choir dress (these pectoral crosses are of several degrees: silver, gold, or jewelled). Bishops wear a \"panagia\" (icon of the Theotokos) in place of the pectoral cross. Archbishops may wear a pectoral cross and a panagia. All primates and some bishops below primatial rank have the dignity of wearing an \"enkolpion\" (icon of Christ), a pectoral cross, and a panagia.\n\nA ruling Igumen (so long as he is inside his own monastery) and a bishop may carry his \"paterissa\" (crozier) when he is in church. However, the paterissa is never to be carried inside the sanctuary; instead, when he goes into the altar, the paterissa is either handed to an altar server or left leaning against the iconostasis outside the Holy Doors.\n\nIn North America and Great Britain, some Orthodox clergy have begun to wear a Roman collar (clergy shirt), though this is discouraged among the more traditional Orthodox.\n\nThere exist color and design variations in each autocephalous Church, but these diagrams give some examples of Eastern Orthodox choir dress vestments:\n\nIn the Syriac Orthodox Church, married priests wear a black skullcap, or \"phiro\", while monastic priests wear the schema, \"eskimo\". For certain sacramental functions, a priest or bishop puts on the epitrachelion (stole).\n\n\"Choir dress\" in Anglicanism traditionally consists of cassock, surplice and scarf (or tippet). An academic hood may also be worn and, since 1964 in the Church of England a cope may be worn at the discretion of the minister. However, the basic garment was, and is, the surplice which by the fourteenth century had become the essential choir-vestment everywhere. The surplice was the only vesture permitted to the clergy in the 1552 Prayer Book, except for bishops who should use a rochet (both wore cassocks as the standard undergarment). The Elizabethan Prayer Book of 1559 included the so-called Ornaments Rubric. Its legal interpretation was disputed in the nineteenth century it was claimed that its inclusion in the 1662 Book of Common Prayer commanded the pre-Reformation Eucharistic vestments (chasuble, dalmatic, tunicle, alb, amice, and maniple) that had been in use during the reign of Edward VI. However, the Elizabethan bishops struggled to enforce the use of the surplice, and the use of Eucharistic vestments was discontinued until after the Oxford Movement, in the middle of the nineteenth century, when it was restored in many cathedrals and parish churches. In many low-church dioceses and parishes the choir dress continued to be the norm, even at the Eucharist. The cope nevertheless continued in use for coronations and in certain cathedrals, but this may be considered an extension of \"choir dress\" and was sanctioned by the canons of 1603/4.\n\nThe cassock is almost invariably black for priests and deacons. A traditional Anglican cassock is double-breasted, being buttoned on the shoulder rather than up the front (there may be a single button sewn to the center of the chest used to fasten the academic hood if worn). Many Anglican clergy, especially (though not exclusively) those within the catholic tradition of Anglicanism, prefer to wear the Latin single-breasted cassock. The cassock is worn with a cincture, which may take the form of a cloth sash resembling a fascia, or a simple rope girdle or leather belt. Over this is worn the surplice, which is longer and fuller than that worn by Roman Catholic clergy, sometimes reaching well below the knees. Traditionally, an academic hood is worn around the shoulders and down the back, along with a black tippet or scarf worn around the nape and hanging straight down in front. The hood and tippet were once a single garment called an almuce. (The tippet is not to be confused with the stole, which is also worn in a similar manner, but is not part of choir dress, being worn at the Eucharist and other sacramental services.) Some clergy also wear Geneva bands (or \"preaching tabs\") from their collars. Though not worn at service-time, the Canterbury cap is the traditional headgear of Church of England clergy; some prefer the biretta (see below) or mortar board. Neither is widely worn, although a square cap, with cassock, gown and tippet, was specified in English canon law as part of the \"outdoor habit\" or \"house dress\" of the clergy until the promulgation of new canons in the 1960s. At some periods of history a black gown, either academic or 'Genevan', was worn for Morning and Evening Prayer instead of the surplice which was reserved for use at the Holy Communion - the cassock, bands, gown, academic hood and tippet still being the normal liturgical costume for ordained minister of the Church of Scotland and other Reformed and Presbyterian churches.\n\nChaplains in the Armed Forces wear tippets with officially sanctioned badges and any medals they have achieved. A bishop or priest may wear a tippet with the arms of the seminary from which he or she received their degree. In England some cathedral clergy wear tippets on which is embroidered the distinctive symbol or cathedral coat of arms. Members of the high church or Anglo-Catholic parts of the church sometimes wear choir dress of a more Roman Catholic style, including a shorter surplice (or \"cotta\"), a stole (and sometimes a biretta), excluding hood and tippet.\n\nReaders when officiating often wear a blue tippet, or, in the United States, a black tippet displaying the arms of the diocese. At the Eucharist, it may be more fitting for readers of Scripture to wear street clothing to emphasize the role of the laity in recent versions of the Prayer Book. However, in some parishes readers wear the traditional vestments of the subdeacon at High Mass: alb fastened with a white cincture and a tunicle. In other parishes they wear the cassock and surplice, as do members of the choir.\n\nAnglican bishops usually wear a purple cassock. Over this, instead of the surplice, they wear the rochet with red or black chimere and matching cuffs, black tippet, and sometimes an academic hood.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29784799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29784799", "title": "Coronation of the Virgin (Lorenzo Monaco)", "text": "Coronation of the Virgin (Lorenzo Monaco)\n\nThe Coronation of the Virgin is a tempera on panel polyptych by the Italian late Gothic artist Lorenzo Monaco, centred on the subject of the Coronation of the Virgin. Once in the Camaldolese monastery of Santa Maria degli Angeli, it is now housed in the Uffizi Gallery in Florence. It is dated February 1413 which, in the Florentine calendar (which began in March), corresponded to 1414.\n\nThe painting is mentioned in the early 15th century by Antonio Billi. \n\nIn the late 16th century, it was replaced in the altar it occupied by a large canvas by Alessandro Allori. The \"Coronation\" was rediscovered in the 19th century, when it was housed in the Camaldolese abbey of San Pietro a Cerreto, in poor condition. In 1872 it was restored to its frame. In 1990 the painted part was found to contain the precious and (for the time) expensive use of lapis lazuli blue.\n\nThe work is in a huge gilded and carved frame, with three cusps covered placed on jutting corbels. The three arches are decorated with vegetable motifs; over them are three panels (whose upper frame is lost), containing the paintings, from the left, of the \"Angel of the Annunciation\", the \"Blessing Christ between Cherubims\" and the \"Annunciation\". At the side are two piers with twisting columns on the edges, with paintings of prophets. In the lower part is the predella, with six small paintings of the \"Episodes of the Lives of St. Benedict and St. Bernard of Clairvaux\".\n\nThe central painting within the three arcades shows the Coronation of the Virgin set in Paradise (alluded by the blue starred belts), with two rows of saints at the sides and a large number of angels behind the throne of Jesus and the Madonna.\n\nThe composition is crowded but, like other Giottoesque paintings, lacks perspective. The gilded background is typical of Lorenzo's style.\n"}
{"id": "41439050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41439050", "title": "Curriculum development", "text": "Curriculum development\n\nCurriculum development is a process of improving the curriculum. Various approaches have been used in developing curricula. Commonly used approaches consist of analysis (i.e. need analysis, task analysis), design (i.e. objective design), selecting (i.e. choosing appropriate learning/teaching methods and appropriate assessment method) formation ( i.e. formation of the curriculum implementation committee / curriculum evaluation committee) and review ( i.e. curriculum review committee).\n\n\nThere is no single curriculum that is 'best' for all situations. Not only does geographic location depends on the type of curriculum taught, but the demographics of the population matters as well. Some curriculums are based heavy of science and technology while another is focused mainly on the arts. However, a comparison of different curricula shows certain approaches to be generally more effective than others. Comprehensive programmes addressing health, nutrition and development have proven to be the most effective in early childhood, especially in programmes directed at very young and vulnerable children. This requires a genuine commitment from agencies and individuals to work together, to plan projects collaboratively, and to involve parents and communities.\n\nA humanistic curriculum is a curriculum based on intercultural education that allows for the plurality of society while striving to ensure a balance between pluralism and universal values. In terms of policy, this view sees curriculum frameworks as tools to bridge broad educational goals and the processes to reach them. A humanistic curriculum development perspective holds that for curriculum frameworks to be legitimate, the process of policy dialogue to define educational goals must be participatory and inclusive. Central to this view is that curriculum policy and content must both be guided by the principles of social and economic justice, equality and environmental responsibility that constitute the pillars of sustainable development.\n"}
{"id": "31331992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31331992", "title": "Decreasing graduation completion rates in the United States", "text": "Decreasing graduation completion rates in the United States\n\nThe graduation completion rate is the measure reflecting the number of students who complete their graduation and receive a degree from an educational institution. The drop-out rate is the measure reflecting the number of students who disengage with the educational institutions they are enrolled in. Those measures are calculated by the National Center for Education Statistics (NCES), the primary federal U.S. entity for collecting and analyzing data related to education.\n\nGraduation rate has been reported to be decreasing over the past decades in the U.S. However, the percentage of dropouts among 16-24-year-olds has shown some decreases over the past 20 years. The substantial growth in college enrollment among high school graduates has not been matched with a comparable expansion in college degree attainment.\n\nDegree completion has been decreasing since 1970. Bound, Lovenheim and Turner (2010) studied why the college completion rate declined. Their main explanations of the decreasing rate are the changes in student preparation and the collegiate resources. The authors explain that between 1970 and 1999, post-secondary institutions saw a significant increase in enrollments and, at the same time, a decrease in college completion. \"Partly as a consequence of the substantial increase in the college wage premium since 1980, a much higher fraction of high school graduates enter college today than they did a quarter century ago. However, the rise in the fraction of high school graduates attending college has not been met by a proportional increase in the fraction who finish.\"\n\nA study by the Higher Education Research Institute of the University of California underlines that in 1994. fewer college students were completing their college in four years than in 1984. The completion rate within four years was 36.4% in 1994, whereas it was 46.7% in the late 1960s. The degree completion when the students were allowed to graduate in six years was 58.8% in 1994. \"The fact that these public-private differences decline somewhat when six-year rates are used suggests that students in the public colleges and universities are taking longer to complete their degrees,\" says Professor Alexander W. Astin, co-author of the study and Director of the Higher Education Research Institute. The current trend is of longer time spent to graduate than it was 50 years ago.\n\nThe main causes of the decreasing college completion rate are the lower preparation level of the students and the small allocation of resources dedicated to instruction and institutional choices, according to Bound, Lovenheim and Turner and their study on \"Understanding Decrease in Completion Rates and Increase in Time to Degree\". The resources allocated to institutions haven't been enough to offset the increase of new students enrollment in higher education institutions.\n\nThe US Census Bureau in 2009 reported that, nationally, 9% of 18–24 year-olds and only 27.5% of those 25 years and older had a bachelor's degree or more. Massachusetts is the state where the completion rate is the highest with 37.8% of citizens 25 years and older having a bachelor's degree. In West Virginia, the completion rate is the lowest with only 17.1% of the population having bachelor's degrees.\n\nIn his 2010 State of the Union Address, President Obama said that he wants the United States to have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world by 2020. To reach this \"big goal\", American college graduates should increase by 50%, adding at least 8 million additional graduates. Obama said that increasing college completion rate is important to increase economic opportunities and lower social costs for individuals.\n\nEarly colleges have lower drop-outs rate than community colleges and universities.The early college high school programs provide students the opportunity to receive a high school diploma and an associate's degree, or up to two years of credit toward a bachelor's degree, in four years. Students take a mixture of high school and college classes in order to obtain their high school diploma and associate's degree. Each early college high school is a public school and open to any residents in the school district. Early colleges have the advantage of allowing student an alternative to the traditional access to diplomas.\n\nCommunity colleges have the mission to provide better access to higher education and graduation for under-served populations. Greater access and success in post-secondary education is a primary element for decreasing income inequalities and increasing the productivity of America's workers. In 2008, 46% of all undergraduate students in the US attended community colleges. Long and Kurlaender studied the graduation differences between community colleges and universities and found that community college students were 14.5% less likely to complete their degree within 9 years as opposed to students in universities. Recent research studied the effect of incentive payments at community colleges and found that they increased the likelihood of low-income students enrolling in the second semester after random assignment and total number of credits earned, with program group students completing nearly 40 percent more credits. Other recent research shows other methods of increasing graduation and persistence rates. Century College in Minnesota implemented GPS Lifeplan to help develop goals in areas such as education, leadership, and finance. The concepts in GPS Lifeplan are integrated in many areas of the college such as New Student Seminars and other areas of curriculum. New full-time student using GPS Lifeplan retention rates were 81% compared to overall retention of 72%.\n\nIn universities, efforts are made on targeting the \"at-risk\" students to avoid drop outs, and creating aligned programs for better coordination between high schools and universities. Successful transfer to 4-year institutions is an issue that concerns every higher educational institution. Academic preparation in high school and solid coordination with those institutions are highly suitable for improving graduation rates.\n\nOrganizations and associations such as Lumina Foundation for Education and Delta Cost Project study how to reallocate the limited resources in ways that can increase college completion rates. Studies suggest that in order to respond to this issue of low graduation rates, states should focus on long term policy rather than short-term fixes. The re-examination of how resources are allocated would help to improve the higher education system and avoid drop outs. Several studies have been conducted in order to guide policies toward better ways to manage resources and drive expenditures.\n\nWebber and Ehrenberg studied the overall impact and the institutional-level impact based on institutional average SAT scores and the average federal Pell Grant given to students at the institution. They found that an increase in expenditures on instruction and student services resulted in higher education rates. The reallocation of resources from instruction to student services would result in a consequent increase in graduation rates. The researchers underline that the institutions with students academically unprepared or economically disadvantaged invest in focusing more on getting student services to potentially raise their students graduation rates.\n\nOn March 22, 2011, Vice-President Joe Biden declared \"Right now we've got an education system that works like a funnel when we need it to work like a pipeline... We have to make the same commitment to getting folks across the graduation stage that we did to getting them into the register's office. The dreams and skills of our college graduates will pave the way to a bright economic future for our nation\".\n\nA New College Completion Tool Kit has been developed by the federal government to help the governors and state governments develop better strategies for higher-education promotion.\nThe solutions proposed by the College Completion Tool Kit urge government to set up financial incentives to increase completion rate. The federal government advises to base funding formulas on enrollment rate but also on performance measures and outcome indicators. In order to improve institutions of higher education, states and public policies should:\n\n\nThe Lumina Foundation for Education proposes solutions to increase college completion rates and to meet President Obama's graduation goal. The strategies highlighted by The Lumina Foundation for Education are to increase the rate at which students complete college and to provide ways for adults in the workforce to return to college to complete degrees.\n\nIn Louisiana, the college attainment rate is 27%. In order to reach the \"big goal\", Louisiana would need to increase its annual degree production by 8.2%. The Lumina Foundation for Education advises some strategies:\nLouisiana's challenge is to increase college students' success for working adults, low income students, first generation students and minority students.\n\nThe graduation completion rate is contested. January 2010 was when The Chronicle of Higher Education stated in their issue that this rate fails to count students who take a long time to complete their degrees. They qualified the rate as \"an incomplete measure of institutional quality. The data describes a minority of all enrolled students, counting only full-time, first-time students who enroll in the fall and complete degrees within \"150 percent of normal time\"—six years for students seeking bachelor's degrees. The graduation rate excludes students who transfer to other colleges and earn degrees there. It also excludes transfer students who come in to finish college and graduate. By one estimate, the rate ignores up to 50 percent of all enrolled students\".\n\n"}
{"id": "38468351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38468351", "title": "Democratization of technology", "text": "Democratization of technology\n\nDemocratization of technology refers to the process by which access to technology rapidly continues to become more accessible to more people. New technologies and improved user experiences have empowered those outside of the technical industry to access and use technological products and services. At an increasing scale, consumers have greater access to use and purchase technologically sophisticated products, as well as to participate meaningfully in the development of these products. Industry innovation and user demand have been associated with more affordable, user-friendly products. This is an ongoing process, beginning with the development of mass production and increasing dramatically as digitization became commonplace.\n\nThomas Friedman argued that the era of globalization has been characterized by the democratization of technology, democratization of finance, and democratization of information. Technology has been critical in the latter two processes, facilitating the rapid expansion of access to specialized knowledge and tools, as well as changing the way that people view and demand such access.\n\nScholars and social critics often cite the invention of the printing press as a major invention that changed the course of history. The force of the printing press rested not in its impact on the printing industry or inventors, but on its ability to transmit information to a broader public by way of mass production. This event is so widely recognized because of its social impact – as a democratizing force.\n\nThe printing press is often seen as the historical counterpart to the Internet.\n\nAfter the development of the Internet in 1969, its use remained limited to communications between scientists and within government, although use of email and boards gained popularity among those with access. It did not become a popular means of communication until the 1990s. In 1993 the US federal government opened the Internet to commerce and the creation of HTML formed the basis for universal accessibility.\n\nThe Internet has played a critical role in modern life as a typical feature of most Western households, and has been key in the democratization of knowledge. It not only constitutes arguably the most critical innovation in this trend thus far; it has also allowed users to gain knowledge of and access to other technologies. Users can learn of new developments more quickly, and purchase high-tech products otherwise only actively marketed to recognized experts. Some have argued that cloud computing is having a major effect by allowing users greater access through mobility and pay-as-you-use capacity.\n\nSocial media has also empowered and emboldened users to become contributors and critics of technological developments.\n\nThe open-source model allows users to participate directly in development of software, rather than indirect participation, through contributing opinions. By being shaped by the user, development is directly responsive to user demand and can be obtained for free or at a low cost. In a comparable trend, arduino and littleBits have made electronics more accessible to users of all backgrounds and ages. The development of 3D printers has the potential to increasingly democratize production.\n\nThis trend is linked to the spread of knowledge of and ability to perform high-tech tasks, challenging previous conceptions of expertise.\n\nWidespread access to technology, including lower costs, was critical to the transition to the new economy. Similarly, democratization of technology was also fuelled by this economic transition, which produced demands for technological innovation and optimism in technology-driven progress.\n\nSince the 1980s, a spreading constructivist conception of technology has emphasized that the social and technical domains are critically intertwined. Scholars have argued that technology is non-neutral, defined contextually and locally by a certain relationship with society.\n\nAndrew Feenberg, a central thinker in the philosophy of technology, argued that democratizing technology means expanding technological design to include alternative interests and values. When successful in doing so, this can be a tool for increasing inclusiveness. This also suggests an important participatory role for consumers if technology is to be truly democratic. Feenberg asserts that this must be achieved by consumer intervention in a liberated design process.\n\nImproved access to specialized knowledge and tools has been associated with an increase in the \"do it yourself\" (DIY) trend. This has also been associated with consumerization, whereby personal or privately owned devices and software are also used for business purposes. Some have argued that this is linked to reduced dependence on traditional information technology departments.\n\nAstra Taylor, the author of the book \"The People's Platform: Taking Back Power and Culture in the Digital Age\", argues, \"The promotion of Internet-enabled amateurism is a lazy substitute for real equality of opportunity.\"\n\nIn some ways, democratization of technology has strengthened this industry. Markets have broadened and diversified. Consumer feedback and input is available at a very low or no cost.\n\nHowever, related industries are experiencing decreased demand for qualified professionals as consumers are able to fill more of their demands themselves. Users of a range of types and status have access to increasingly similar technology. Because of the decreased costs and expertise necessary to use products and software, professionals (e.g. in the audio industry) may experience loss of work.\n\nIn some cases, technology is accessible but sufficiently complex that most users without specialized training are able to operate it without necessarily understanding how it works. Additionally, the process of consumerization has led to an influx in the number of devices in businesses and accessing private networks that IT departments cannot control or access. While this can lead to lowered operating costs and increased innovation, it is also associated with security concerns that most businesses are unable to address at the pace of the spread of technology.\n\nSome scholars have argued that technological change will bring about a third wave of democracy. The Internet has been recognized for its role in promoting increased citizen advocacy and government transparency. Jesse Chen, a leading thinker in democratic engagement technologies, distinguishes the democratizing effects of technology from democracy itself. Chen has argued that, while the Internet may have democratizing effects, the Internet alone cannot deliver democracy at all levels of society unless technologies are purposely designed for the nuances of democracy, specifically the engagement of large groups of people in between elections in and beyond government.\n\nThe spread of the Internet and other forms of technology has led to increased global connectivity. Many scholars believe that it has been associated in the developing world not only with increased Western influence, but also with the spread of democracy through increased communication, efficiency, and access to information. Scholars have drawn associations between the level of technological connectedness and democracy in many nations.\n\nTechnology can enhance democracy in the developed world as well. In addition to increased communication and transparency, some electorates have implemented online voting to accommodate an increased number of citizens.\n\n"}
{"id": "2881253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2881253", "title": "Digimon Adventure 02", "text": "Digimon Adventure 02\n\n, known as Digimon: Digital Monsters (Season 2) in English-speaking territories, is a Japanese anime television series produced by Toei Animation. It is the second series in the Digimon franchise and sequel to \"Digimon Adventure\". It aired in Japan from April 2, 2000 to March 25, 2001.\n\nAn English language dub, produced by Saban Entertainment, aired in North America from August 19, 2000 to May 19, 2001. In 2015, a six-part film series titled \"Digimon Adventure tri.\" began screening in theaters as a continuation to \"Digimon Adventure\" and Digimon Adventure 02 for the series' 15th anniversary.\n\nThree years after the events of \"Digimon Adventure\", the Digital World comes under attack from the Digimon Emperor, who is enslaving Digimon with his Dark Rings while building Control Spires that negate Digivolution. To fight him, three new DigiDestined are recruited, each gaining an ancient Digimon for a partner. The three, along with T.K. and Kari, each possess a D-3, a new type of Digivice that allows them to open a gate to be transported to the Digital World through any computer. They are also given D-Terminals that hold Crest-themed Digi-Eggs that allow their Digimon partners to undergo Armor Digivolution to counter the presence of Control Spires. The Digimon Emperor, revealed to be boy genius Ken Ichijoji, flees to the Digital World. Assisted by Ken's partner, Wormmon, the DigiDestined defeat Ken and have him realize his mistakes.\n\nWhile the DigiDestined rebuild the Digital World, Davis, Yolei, and Cody unlock normal Digivolution. At the same, they ally themselves with a reformed Ken, who joins the team to fight Arukenimon, a Digimon who revives the Control Spires as other Digimon. When the Control Spire Digimon prove to be stronger than them, the DigiDestined learn DNA Digivolution, which enable two champion-level Digimon to merge into a stronger ultimate-level one. In response, Arukenimon creates BlackWarGreymon, but BlackWarGreymon begins to destroy the Destiny Stones to validate his existence and challenge Azulongmon, who appears when each Stone is destroyed. Once Azulongmon defeats BlackWarGreymon and sends him off, he warns the DigiDestined about an impending threat behind Arukenimon and Mummymon.\n\nDuring Christmas, Control Spires appear across the human world, bringing Digimon with them. While the DigiDestined set off with Imperialdramon to destroy them with the help of the international DigiDestined, Arukenimon and Mummymon begin kidnapping several children for Yukio Oikawa, a friend of Cody's father who dreams of entering the Digital World. Once the DigiDestined return to Japan, they fight the Daemon Corps while Oikawa uses the Dark Spore inside Ken to implant them into the children. BlackWarGreymon returns to defeat Oikawa, but after he is mortally wounded, he sacrifices himself to seal the portal to the Digital World at Highton View Terrace before Oikawa can transport himself and the children there.\n\nThe DigiDestined are transported to the Dream World with Oikawa and the children, where Myotismon splits from Oikawa and uses the energy from the children's Dark Spores to be reborn as MaloMyotismon. With help from the DigiDestined all over the world, the DigiDestined defeat MaloMyotismon and Oikawa sacrifices his body to rebuild the Digital World. Twenty five years later, humans and the Digimon live side by side.\n\n\n\"Digimon Adventure 02\" aired with fifty episodes on Fuji TV in Japan between April 2, 2000, and March 25, 2001. The opening theme is by Kōji Wada, which peaked at #85 on the Oricon Weekly Singles Chart. The ending themes are performed by AiM, the first half of the show being and the second half being . \"Ashita wa Atashi no Kaze ga Fuku\" peaked at #50 on the Oricon Weekly Singles Chart, while \"Itsumo Itsudemo\" charted at #93. Insert songs featured in the show include \"Break up!\" by Ayumi Miyazaki as the Armor Digivolution theme and \"Beat Hit!\" by Miyazaki as the DNA Digivolution theme. The Japanese version was streamed with English subtitles on Crunchyroll in 2008, followed by Funimation Entertainment in April 2009.\n\nSaban Entertainment produced an English-language adaptation which aired on Fox Kids in the USA and YTV in Canada between August 19, 2000, and May 19, 2001 as the second season to \"Digimon: Digital Monsters\". Much like the English version of \"Digimon Adventure\", which was dubbed as the first season of \"Digimon: Digital Monsters\", the original soundtrack of the show was replaced by music composed by Udi Harpaz and Shuki Levy, and the opening theme is \"Digimon Theme\" by Paul Gordon. Other songs featured in the show include \"Let's Kick it Up\", \"Change into Power\", and \"Hey Digimon\", also by Gordon. Jasan Radford also performed songs to the show, including \"Run Around\", \"Going Digital\", and \"Strange.\" The songs, including \"Digimon Theme\", were released on the of \"\".\n\nAfter the success of season 1 of \"Digimon: Digital Monsters\", the producers requested the writers to add more North American jokes to the script, resulting in several revisions. Eventually, along with the result of \"\", this caused writers Jeff Nimoy and Bob Buchholz to leave the writing team near the end of the series' run. A DVD boxset of the English dub was released in North America by New Video Group on March 26, 2013 and in Australia by Madman Entertainment on July 23, 2014.\n\n\"Digimon Adventure 02\" was added to the Netflix Instant Streaming service along with \"Digimon Adventure\" from August 3, 2013 to August 1, 2015 in separate English dubbed and Japanese subtitled versions. Crunchyroll acquired streaming rights to the English dubbed versions, while Funimation acquired rights to the English subtitled versions. The English dubbed version of \"Adventure 02\" briefly returned to Netflix while the English subtitled version is now exclusive to Funimation.\n\nSeveral short films were screened in Japanese theaters during the show's run. A two-part featurette, was released on July 8, 2000 as part of Toei Animation Summer 2000 Animation Fair. The film was featured along with \"Ojamajo Doremi #: The Movie\", which was screened in between. In the film, the older DigiDestined are abducted by Wendigomon. The younger DigiDestined investigate their disappearance along with American DigiDestined Willis and his partner, Terriermon, who share a common past with Wendigomon. The film grossed ¥120 billion. The film's ending theme song is by AiM.\n\n\"Digimon Adventure 02: Part 1: Digimon Hurricane Landing!!/Part 2: Transcendent Evolution!! The Golden Digimentals\" was released in North America on October 6, 2000, as the third part of \"\", which included \"Digimon Adventure\" (1999) and \"Digimon Adventure: Children's War Game!\" (2000). The film was heavily altered, one of the cuts including the subplot where the older DigiDestined are kidnapped by Wendigomon, because Saban Entertainment lacked funding to produce a full two-hour movie. Scriptwriter Jeff Nimoy had wanted to release the movie separately as a television film, but the idea was overruled. In addition to Japanese elements being removed and North American jokes added, Willis' backstory was slightly rewritten to include that he had created Diaboromon in order to draw a connection to \"Digimon Adventure: Children's War Game!\"\n\nVarious audio dramas were released onto CD in Japan, with the cast reprising their roles from the television series.\n\nThe first drama CD, was released on February 7, 2001 and is centered on the DigiDestined fighting Boltmon, who captures Sora, Mimi, and Kari on Valentine's Day.\n\nAfterwards, was released on April 4, 2001 and as a single from the Teen-age Wolves and features a drama track where Matt receives a letter from a fan who is about to undergo eye surgery.\n\nThe third drama CD, was released on October 3, 2001 and is centered around Davis visiting Mimi and Willis during summer vacation.\n\nAlong with \"Power Rangers\", \"Digimon Adventure 02\" was one of the most popular shows on Fox Kids during its run and also contributed to the channel's high ratings, beating out competitors such as ABC, Kids' WB, and Nickelodeon.\n\n"}
{"id": "19284595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19284595", "title": "Domestic realism", "text": "Domestic realism\n\nDomestic realism normally refers to the genre of 19th-century novels popular with women readers. This body of writing is also known as \"sentimental fiction\" or \"woman's fiction\". The genre is mainly reflected in the novel though short-stories and non-fiction works such as Harriet Beecher Stowe's \"Our Country Neighbors\" and \"The New Housekeeper's Manual\" written by Stowe and her sister-in-law Catharine Beecher are works of domestic realism. The style's particular characteristics are:\n\n\"1. Plot focuses on a heroine who embodies one of two types of exemplar: the angel and the practical woman (Reynolds) who sometimes exist in the same work. Baym says that this heroine is contrasted with the passive woman (incompetent, cowardly, ignorant; often the heroine's mother is this type) and the \"belle,\" who is deprived of a proper education.\n\n2. The heroine struggles for self-mastery, learning the pain of conquering her own passions (Tompkins, Sensational Designs, 172).\n\n3. The heroine learns to balance society's demands for self-denial with her own desire for autonomy, a struggle often addressed in terms of religion.\n\n4. She suffers at the hands of abusers of power before establishing a network of surrogate kin.\n\n5. The plots \"repeatedly identify immersion in feeling as one of the great temptations and dangers for a developing woman. They show that feeling must be controlled. . . \" (Baym 25). Frances Cogan notes that the heroines thus undergo a full education within which to realize feminine obligations (The All-American Girl).\n\n6. The tales generally end with marriage, usually one of two possible kinds:\n\nA. Reforming the bad or \"wild\" male, as in Augusta Evans's \"St. Elmo\" (1867)\n\nB. Marrying the solid male who already meets her qualifications.\nExamples: Maria Cummins, \"The Lamplighter\" (1854) and Susan Warner, \"The Wide, Wide World\" (1850) \n\n7. The novels may use a \"language of tears\" that evokes sympathy from the readers.\n\n8. Richard Brodhead (Cultures of Letters) sees class as an important issue, as the ideal family or heroine is poised between a lower-class family exemplifying poverty and domestic disorganization and upper-class characters exemplifying an idle, frivolous existence (94).\"\n\nAn example of this style of novel is Jane Smiley's \"A Thousand Acres\" in which the main character's confinement is emphasized in such a way.\n\nSome early exponents of the genre of domestic realism were Jane Austen and Elizabeth Barrett Browning.\n"}
{"id": "10385691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10385691", "title": "Earth Hour", "text": "Earth Hour\n\nEarth Hour is a worldwide movement organized by the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). The event is held annually encouraging individuals, communities, and businesses to turn off non-essential electric lights for one hour, from 8:30 to 9:30 pm on a specific day towards the end of March, as a symbol of commitment to the planet. It was started as a lights-off event in Sydney, Australia, in 2007. Since then, it has grown to engage more than 7,000 cities and towns across 187 countries and territories.\n\nOccasionally, in years when Holy Saturday falls on the last Saturday of March, Earth Hour is moved a week early rather than its traditional date.\n\nEarth Hour 2018 was on March 24, from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm.\n\nEarth Hour 2019 is scheduled for March 30, from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm.\n\nIn 2004, confronted with scientific findings, WWF Australia met with advertising agency Leo Burnett Sydney to \"discuss ideas for engaging Australians on the issue of climate change\". The idea of a large scale switch off was coined and developed in 2006, originally under the working title \"The Big Flick\". WWF Australia presented their concept to Fairfax Media who, along with Sydney Lord Mayor Clover Moore, agreed to back the event. The 2007 Earth Hour was held on March 31 in Sydney, Australia at 7:30 pm, local time.\n\nIn October 2007 San Francisco ran its own \"Lights Out\" program inspired by the Sydney Earth Hour. After their successful event in October, the organizers decided to rally behind the Earth Hour being planned for March 2008.\n\nEarth Hour 2008 was held internationally on March 29, 2008 from 8 pm to 9 pm local time, marking the first anniversary of the event. 35 countries around the world participated as official flagship cities and over 400 cities also supported. Landmarks around the world turned off their non-essential lighting for Earth Hour. Some websites took part in the event, with Google's homepage going \"dark\" on the day .\n\nAccording to a Zogby International online survey, 36 million Americans—approximately 16 percent of the United States adult population—participated in Earth Hour 2008. The survey also showed there was a 4 percentage point increase in the level of interest in environmental issues such as climate change and pollution directly after the event (73 percent pre-event versus 77 percent post-event).\nTel Aviv scheduled their Earth Hour for Thursday March 27, 2008 to avoid conflict with Sabbath. Dublin moved their Earth Hour to between 9 and 10 pm due to their northern geographical location.\n\nAccording to WWF Thailand, Bangkok decreased electricity usage by 73.34 megawatts, which, over one hour, is equivalent to 41.6 tonnes of carbon dioxide. The \"Bangkok Post\" gave different figures of 165 megawatt-hours and 102 tonnes of carbon dioxide. This was noted to be significantly less than a similar campaign initiated by Bangkok's City Hall the previous year in May, when 530 megawatt-hours were saved and 143 tonnes of carbon dioxide emission were cut.\n\nPhilippine Electricity Market Corp. noted that power consumption dropped by about 78.63 megawatts in Metro Manila, and up to 102.2 megawatts on Luzon. The maximum demand drop of around 39 MW was experienced at 8:14 pm in Metro Manila and of around 116 MW at 8:34 pm in the Luzon grid.\n\nOntario used approximately 900 megawatt-hours less electrical energy during Earth Hour. At one point, Toronto saw an 8.7% reduction in consumption as compared to a typical March Saturday night.\n\nIreland, as a whole, had a reduction in electricity use of about 1.5% for the evening. In the three-hour period between 6:30 pm and 9:30 pm, there was a reduction of 50 megawatts, saving 150 megawatt-hours, or approximately 60 tonnes of carbon dioxide.\n\nIn Dubai, where external lighting on several major city landmarks was turned off and street lighting in selected areas was dimmed by 50%, the Electricity and Water Authority reported savings of 100 megawatt-hours of electricity. This represented a 2.4% reduction in demand compared to before the hour began.\nThe best result was from Christchurch, New Zealand, with the city reporting a drop of 13% in electricity demand. However, national grid operator Transpower reported that New Zealand's power consumption during Earth Hour was 335 megawatts, higher than the 328 megawatt average of the previous two Saturdays. Melbourne, Australia reduced demand by 10.1%. Sydney, being the city that participated in both the 2007 and 2008 Earth Hours, cut electricity consumption by 8.4%. This is less than the previous year's 10.2%; however, Earth Hour executive director Andy Ridley made the claim that after factoring margin of error, the participation in this city was the same.\n\nThe worst result was from Calgary, Canada. The city's power consumption actually went up 3.6% at the hour's peak electricity demand. Calgary's weather plays a large role in power consumption, and the city experienced weather 12 °C (around 22 °F) colder than the previous Saturday's recorded temperature in the inaugural year. Enmax, the city's power supplier, has confirmed that in all subsequent years, Calgarians have not supported the Earth Hour initiative, noting that power consumption changed only marginally during the hour in 2010 and 2011 (1% or less) and in 2012 and 2013 showed no appreciable change in power usage at all.\n\nEarth Hour 2009 was from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm local time, March 28, 2009. The campaign was titled \"Vote Earth\" and was dubbed \"the world's first global vote\" with one billion votes was the stated aim for Earth Hour 2009, in the context of the pivotal 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference. WWF reported that 88 countries and 4,159 cities participated in Earth Hour 2009, ten times more cities than Earth Hour 2008 had (2008 saw 400 cities participate).\n\nAmong the participants in 2009 was, for the first time, the United Nations Headquarters in New York City.\n\nIn Egypt, the lights went out on the Sphinx and the Great Pyramids of Giza from 8:30 to 9:30 pm.\n\nThe Philippines saw participation from 647 cities and towns; over 10 million Filipinos were estimated to have joined in the hour-long lights-off. This was followed by Greece with 484 cities and towns participating, and Australia with 309.\n\nDespite official organizers WWF stating that the event is not about the reduction in electricity, a number of public institutions reported on electricity savings in their cities to see participation numbers. The Canadian province of Ontario, excluding the city of Toronto, saw a decrease of 6% in electricity usage while Toronto saw a decrease of 15.1% (nearly doubled from 8.7% the previous year) as many businesses darkened, including the landmark CN Tower.\n\nThe Philippines was able to save 611 MWh of electricity during the time period, which is said to be equivalent to shutting down a dozen coal-fired power plants for an hour.\n\nSwedish electricity operator Svenska Kraftnät recorded a 2.1% decrease in power consumption from its projected figure between 8 pm and 9 pm. The following hour, the corresponding number was 5%. This is equivalent to the consumption of approximately half a million households out of the total 4.5 million households in Sweden.\n\nAccording to Vietnam Electricity Company, Vietnam's electricity demand fell 140 MWh during Earth Hour.\n\n96 countries and territories on 6 continents participated in the event in 2009.\n\n\nMalaysia's 8TV halted transmission for one hour starting from 20:30\n\nEarth Hour 2010 was held from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm local time on March 27. In Israel, the hour was held on April 22.\n\n126 countries participated in Earth Hour 2010.\n\nIn the United States polling showed that an estimated 90,000,000 Americans participated in Earth Hour as lights were turned off around the country, including landmarks such as Mount Rushmore, the Las Vegas Strip, the Empire State Building and Niagara Falls.\n\nSome cities and landmarks took the opportunity to make more long-term adjustments to their everyday power consumption. In Chicago, the Building Owners and Managers Association (BOMA) developed lighting guidelines to reduce light pollution and reduce the carbon footprint of downtown buildings. Mount Rushmore in South Dakota started powering down each night around 9 pm instead of 11 pm.\n\nIn Vietnam, electricity demand fell 500,000 kWh during Earth Hour 2010, which was three times larger than the first time the country joined the event in 2009.\n\nIn the Philippines, 1,067 towns and cities pledged participation in 2010 and over 15 million Filipinos participated in the event.\n\nAbout 4000 cities participated, including landmarks such as Big Ben, the Empire State Building, the Sydney Opera House, the Eiffel Tower, the Parthenon, the Brandenburg Gate, and the Forbidden City.\n\n\nEarth Hour 2011 was the biggest year in the campaign's five-year history, reaffirming it as the largest ever voluntary action for the environment. In 2011, the tagline \"Beyond the Hour\" was adopted by organizers as a way to encourage people to take their commitment to the cause beyond the 60-minute event. Together with agency Leo Burnett, Earth Hour unveiled an updated planet themed logo that included a small plus symbol to the right of the signature \"60\" which was used in previous years. The 60+ symbol continues to be the main logo used by campaign organizers around the world.\n\nEarth Hour 2011 took place in a record 5,251 cities and towns in 135 countries and territories on all seven continents. It had an estimated reach of 1.8 billion people across the globe. In addition to this, the campaign's digital footprint grew to 91 million.\n\nIn India, Earth Hour 2011 was held on March 26, 2011 from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm. IST, flagged off by the Chief Minister of Delhi Sheila Dikshit and Earth Hour 2011 Ambassador and Bollywood actress Vidya Balan in the presence of Jim Leape, Director General, WWF International. Rosebowl channel suspended broadcasting from 8.30 pm to 9.30 pm to mark the observance of Earth Hour.\n\nIn Azerbaijan, Maiden Tower darkened for Earth Hour.\n\nThe Philippines, which has been an active participant of the Earth Hour, had an early \"earth hour\" when power was accidentally interrupted, plunging Metro Manila and nearby provinces into darkness. After power was restored, major buildings, commercial centers and residential areas in Metro Manila and most provinces continued to turn off their lights, while participating channels in the Philippines, ABS-CBN and Cartoon Network halted their transmissions for an hour.\n\n30 provinces and cities in Vietnam took part in Earth Hour 2011 with the main event held in Nha Trang. The nation's electricity demand fell 400,000 kWh, one-fifth less than the previous year's. Vietnam managed to save 500 million VND (US$23,809) thanks to the saved power.\n\nYouTube promoted the Earth Hour by changing its logo, and by adding a switch on/off feature near the title of each video, so that users could change the background colour from white to black.\n\nOne of the least co-operative areas traditionally has been Alberta; in 2008, Calgary's power consumption went up during Earth Hour. The trend continued in 2011 when Edmonton's power usage also increased. While Calgary's power usage went down in 2011 during the event, electricity officials could not distinguish their readings between normal usage and a conscious attempt to participate.\n\nEarth Hour Global headquarters was moving from Sydney to Singapore in February 2012. A launch event took place at ION Orchard on February 20, with the move supported by Singapore's Economic Development Board (EDB) and WWF-Singapore.\n\nEarth Hour 2012 was observed on March 31, 2012, from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm (participants' local time). It took place in more than 7000 cities and towns across 152 countries and territories, making it the biggest growth year for the campaign since 2009. It was also the first year that Earth Hour was celebrated in space, with Dutch astronaut André Kuipers tweeting at various moments during the event's trek around the globe.\n\nEarth Hour 2013 was held across the world on Saturday, March 23 at 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm local time to avoid taking place after European Summer Time began, ensuring a greater impact for the lights-off event. It was also changed to avoid coinciding with the Christian Holy Saturday, which fell on March 30 of that year.\n\nIn 2013, the world's first Earth Hour Forest began in Uganda, an ongoing project that aims to restore 2700 hectares of degraded land. Standard Chartered Bank-Uganda pledged to help fill the forest with more than 250,000 trees.\n\nEarth Hour commemorations in Madagascar had as their highlight the distribution of one thousand wood-saving stoves to victims of the cyclone Haruna in the southern town of Toliara, extensively damaged in February 22 storm. WWF-Madagascar and ADES (Association pour le Développement de l'Energie Solaire) distributed an additional 2,200 wood-saving stoves later that year.\n\nFormer President of Botswana, Festus Mogae promised to plant one million indigenous trees over four years, as part of his \"I Will If You Will\" challenge for Earth 2013.\n\nWWF-Russia launched its 2013 campaign aiming to secure more than 100,000 signatures from Russian citizens to petition for amendments to the current forest legislation. The petition reached more than 127,000 signatures before the Earth Hour event, ensuring the legislation was debated in the State Duma by politicians.\n\nEarth Hour 2014 took place on Saturday, March 29, during the same 8:30 to 9:30 pm local timeslot. Earth Hour Blue was launched as a global crowdfunding and crowdsourcing platform for the planet. \"It is all about the collective effort of individuals around the world getting together to help fund or add their voice to support on-the-ground environmental and social projects that deliver real outcomes.\"\n\nThe Earth Hour 2014 Report highlighted a broad range of environmental outcomes achieved by the movement across 162 countries and territories around the world. More than US$60,000 was raised on the Earth Hour Blue platform for grassroots environmental projects run by WWF. The movement also saw campaigns to help protect Australia's Great Barrier Reef, the launch of a Blue Sky App in China, and the delivery of thousands of wood efficient stoves to communities in Madagascar.\n\nEarth Hour 2015 took place on Saturday, March 28, again between 8:30 and 9:30 pm local time. The tagline for the global campaign was \"Change Climate Change\", returning to the movement's original focus to initiate citizen action on global warming. A day before the event, over 170 countries and territories had confirmed their participation; with more than 1200 landmarks and close to 40 UNESCO world heritage sites set for the switch off.\n\nFor the second year running, Earth Hour Blue aims to raise funds for WWF organized climate focused projects on a crowdfunding platform. This year, crowdfunding projects include solar light distribution in the Philippines and India, and wildlife based projects from Colombia, Uganda and Indonesia.\n\nUniquely participating in the Earth Hour activity are the inhabitants of an island called Sibuyan in the Philippines who turned on their lights to elevate the message of using renewable energy. The island's source of electricity is a mini-hydro power plant.\n\nEarth Hour 2016 was on Saturday, March 19, from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm during participants' local time. It was also changed to avoid coinciding with the Christian Holy Saturday, which fell on March 26 of that year. It was the 10th anniversary of the campaign's beginnings in Sydney, Australia. Östersund in Sweden cancelled the 2016 event, following a spate of sex attacks, highlighting safety as a subject for discussion when saving resources. Almost all the countries in the world observed Earth Hour.\n\nEarth Hour occurred on Saturday, March 25.\n\nEarth Hour 2018 took place on March 24, from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm in participants' time, in order to avoid coinciding with Catholic Holy Saturday which fell on March 31.\n\nEarth Hour 2019 is scheduled for March 30, from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm.\n\nEarth Hour is supported around the world by UNESCO, the UN Environment Programme, the International Trade Union Confederation, Woodland, CBRE Group, the National Hockey League, FIFA, UEFA, Hilton Worldwide, Girl Scouts of the US, World Organization of the Scout Movement, HSBC, World Association of the Girl Guides and Girl Scouts, Philips, IKEA, The Body Shop, ING Vysya Bank, and more.\n\nThe Earth Hour Global FAQ page states:\nA 2014 study published in \"Energy Research and Social Science\" compiled 274 measurements of observed changes in electricity demand caused by Earth Hour in 10 countries, spanning 6 years, and found that the events reduced electricity consumption an average of 4%. The study noted the policy challenge of converting Earth Hour's short-term energy saving into longer-term actions, including sustained changes in behaviour and investment.\n\nBjørn Lomborg, author of \"The Skeptical Environmentalist\", wrote, \"It is vital to make solar and other new technology cheaper than fossil fuels quickly so we can turn off carbon energy sources for a lot longer than one hour and keep the planet running... Fossil fuels literally gave us an enlightenment, by lighting our world and giving us protection from the fury of the elements. It is ironic that today's pure symbolism should hark back to a darker age.\" Lomborg also pointed out the feel-good factor Earth Hour creates, noting that it is an \"ineffective feel good event\" that makes people feel they are doing something for the environment, while in reality the amount of carbon emissions reduced by the earth hour is negligible.\n\nOther criticisms of Earth Hour have included the following: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "39930465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39930465", "title": "Engelbart's law", "text": "Engelbart's law\n\nEngelbart's law is the observation that the intrinsic rate of human performance is exponential. The law is named after Douglas Engelbart, whose work in augmenting human performance was explicitly based on the realization that although we make use of technology,\nthe ability to improve on improvements (Bootstrapping, \"getting better at getting better\") resides entirely within the human sphere.\n\nEngelbart's Bootstrapping concept identifies the general, and particular, meaning of the observation with regards to rate and performance: a quantity, amount, or degree of something measured per unit of something else.\nThat is, Engelbart's law is not limited to an increase in the acquisition, or use of, or quantity of knowledge, nor of the extent or depth of participation among individuals or teams, nor of the period-to-period change. The law is independent of the domain of performance and the quantity, amount, or degree on which one chooses a measure.\n\nHumans have long performed at exponential levels, and in widely varying contexts and domains.\n\nAs with other phenomenon, when we notice similar results when applying a reagent or catalyst across many contexts and domains, we associate the power to produce or induce those results with the reagent, here the human animal.\n\nStephen Jay Kline presented an interesting visualization of this exponential phenomenon in his 1995 book. See page 173, figure 14-1. The Growth of Human Powers Over the Past 100,000 Years Plotted as Technoextension Factors (TEFs).\nThe log-log chart (time, TEF) illustrates exponential performance extending over many domains and over hundreds of years.\n\nOn this topic Kline's work made heavy use of the work of John H. Lienhard. Kline specifically references Linehard's \"The Rate of Technological Improvement before and after the 1830s\".\nLienhard explored this topic several times at Engines of Our Ingenuity.\nSee specifically Double in a Lifetime.\nOther relevant episodes include\nInfluence of War, and\nInfluence of War, Updated\nIn these latter two references Linehard explores, and discards,\nthe influence of an urgent necessity as a necessary driver to\nsuch performance.\n\nIn discussing the exponential nature of Moore's law\n, Gordon Moore locates the roots of his inspiration in Engelbart's observations on the propensity of humans to envision and achieve scale, and its non-linear effects.\n\nEngelbart labeled Collective IQ as the \"measure of how well people can work on important problems and opportunities collectively\". It is, ultimately, \"a measure of effectiveness\".\n\nIt has long been the fashion to talk of human performance as if it were dependent on a particular socio-technology fabric. Yet Engelbart felt that what was important was not the particulars of that fabric, but its \"nature.\" He called the nature of that fabric\nThe Bootstrap Paradigm\n\nCentral to his realization was a Dynamic Knowledge Repository\ncapable of enabling the concurrent development, integration and application of knowledge (CoDIAK). Such a DKR would itself be\nsubject to the CoDIAK process.\n\nThis is a co-evolution of the human system and the tool system. To facilitate this, Engelbart observed that a particular structure of human activities is most useful and natural, the A-level ('Business as Usual'), B-level ('Improving how we do that') and C-level ('Improving how we improve') Activities.\n\nIn ABC Model, and particularly Turbo Charge the C Activity and Extra Bootstrapping Engelbart addresses the necessity of the C-level Activitiy in the shift from an \"incremental improvement curve to an exponential improvement curve\".\n\nWhereas B-level Activities achieve mildly-exponential results, Engelbart held that C-levels Activities are necessary to achieve Bootstrapping, improving the improvement, a direct dependence on the intrinsically exponential nature of humans.\n\nAlthough Engelbart never published a metric for measuring Bootstrap effects, the Bootstrap Alliance, in 1997, considered, the characteristics of candidate metrics.\n\nAs derived from the above, candidate metrics would necessarily:\n\n\nIn addition to the above acronyms, the following represents the performance of ABC-level Activities by their respective letters:\nformula_1.\n\nCandidate metric:\n\nAlthough this metric would reflect the augmentation of \"CIQ\", the efficiency in the concurrent development, integration, and application of knowledge (CoDIAK) would be dependent solely on the application of B-level Activity to A-level Activity.\n(For example:\n<math\nalt=\"Change in CoDIAK = 1 plus A-level Activity\">\n</math>)\nThere is insufficiently-explicit accounting of improvements to CoDIAK dynamics, and no accounting of C-level Activities.\n\nAlthough powerful, Engelbart's Bootstrapping effects are also unaccounted in simple exponential power formulations.\n\nCandidate metric:\n\nAlthough this metric signifies an improved performance rate (e.g., we might say formula_2), it too provides insuffienct accounting of other activities.\n\nComparing these two insufficient candidates illustrates the same key aspect underpinning Engelbart's law: human organization and directed activity are the essential elements to our performance.\n\nAn implication of the foregoing as insufficient Bootstrapping metrics is that simple exponential power relationships are insufficient to improve CoDIAK abilities. By definition this result precludes a simple combination of such metrics or laws, such as a factor or power relationship between Moore's law and Metcalfe's law (or variations thereon).\n\nVarious complex power functions, incorporating the effect of efforts at each of the ABC-level Activities were considered as candidates.\n\nThe differences illustrate the interplay and interdependencies of A-level, B-level and C-level Activities, and the Bootstrapping effects (improved improvement). In all three, improvement to CIQ, CoDIAK, and Bootstrapping itself depends on a recursive application of B-level Activities and C-level Activities.\n\nAlthough levels of exponential rates of performance, over many time periods and in many domains, with respect to quantity, extent, or degree, is well-documented by Lienhard and many others, modern and real-time ongoing of Bootstrapping levels of performance remain difficult to find.\n\nPerhaps that is unsurprising given the absence of agreed metrics. It is likely also related to Engelbart's own observation that the\nfuture may be very surprising, not merely concerning the yet-unseen challenges, but also concerning how well we organize our teams and our tools.\n\nIn explicitly placing within the human sphere the locus of ability for improving our improvement, Engelbart's law chides us against choosing anemic measures of change in performance. Linear rates, or simple compound rates fall far short of our intrinsic abilities.\n\nIn addition to envisioning the Bootstrap Paradigm, describing the \"nature\" of a suitable socio-technical fabric, Engelbart envisioned its particular characteristics, which, when placed into use, and subjected to improvement upon improvement, would meet human requirements.\n\nIn this way, to fully utilize A-, B-, and C-level Activities, and achieve bootstrapping-levels of performance, we may more easily and readily redefine our measures until we have a suitable basis for such performance:\n\n\nEngelbart, in writing and working, intended to apply this method of working to all domains of human endeavor, from the individual to the whole species, in private or public service .\n\n"}
{"id": "38847538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38847538", "title": "Female labor force in the Muslim world", "text": "Female labor force in the Muslim world\n\nFemale participation and advancement in majority Muslim countries, or nations in which more than 50% of the population identifies as an adherent of the Islamic faith, has traditionally been areas of controversy. Several Western nations such as the United States and Western Europe have criticised majority Muslim nations for the lack of involvement and opportunity for women in the private sector.\n\nLow levels of female labor participation, large wage gaps by gender, and few female executives in large companies in majority Muslim nations are common criticisms of these nations. Accordingly, significant data has been gathered by global institutions about female workers in majority Muslim nations to test these cultural beliefs. Development economists and multinational organizations such as the United Nations, World Bank, and the International Labour Organization, have gathered significant amounts of data to study the labor contributions of and commercial opportunities for women. \n\nThere are fifty-one countries in the world in which more than 50% of the population identify as Muslims. These countries spread from North Africa, to the Middle East, to the Balkans and Central Asia, to Southeast Asia. While many nations contain a strong Muslim presence, majority Muslim nations, by definition, have more Muslims as citizens than non-Muslims. Not all majority Muslim states, however, have Islam as their established religion. Turkey, for example, is a prominent Muslim country in which 99% of the population follows some form of Islam. However, there is no official religion. The state is secular. Nigeria is also a majority Muslim country which is officially secular.\n\nMost majority Muslim nations, however, recognize Islam as the official state religion. Furthermore, many states identify a specific derivative of the Islamic faith as their official religion. For example, sunni Islam is the official state religion of: Afghanistan, Algeria, Bangladesh, Jordan, Libya, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, Somalia, and the United Arab Emirates. Shia Islam is the official religion of Iran, which is a theocracy. Some minority Islamic sects are official state religions as well.Ibadi, a minority school within Islam, is the official religion of Oman.\n\nTable 1: Selected Majority Muslim Countries\nNot all states in the Muslim World institutionalize a distinction between the sects of Islam. In Pakistan and Iraq, Islam as a faith, is recognized as the official religion. All sects or schools are included. In Egypt, freedom of religion is extended to the Abrahamic religions even though Sunni Islam is the state-sponsored religion. Similarly, Indonesia, which is the world's largest Muslim country, guarantees freedom of religion but only recognizes six official religions. Islam is one of and the most prominent of the six. Despite a common religion, majority Muslim nations are quite disparate in terms of size, population, demographic composition, and the legal framework of religion.\n\nTable 2: Female Labor Force Participation Rate \n\nSource: Global Gender Gap Report 2012, World Economic Forum\n\nA basic indicator of women's involvement in the formal economy is a statistic known as the labor force participation rate. This data point shows the percentage of women in a country who are either employed in full or part-time labor. According to the International Labour Organization, the labor force participation rate is defined as \"the proportion of the population ages 15 and older that is economically active: all people who supply labor for the production of goods and services during a specified period.\" Table 2 lists the labor force participation rates of women in eleven majority Muslim countries. Majority Muslim countries are defined as states in which more than 50% of the population identifies with the Islamic faith.\n\nOf these eleven countries, Bangladesh and Indonesia had the highest rates of female participation in the labor force in 2010 with 57% and 51%, respectively. Syria, Iraq, and Afghanistan have the lowest rates of female labor force participation among these eleven nations with 13%, 14%, and 15%, respectively. However, numerically large discrepancies exist in the data for a couple of nations when drawn from different sources. Afghanistan's female labor force participation rate, for example, was 15% in 2010 according to World Bank figures. That percentage nearly doubles to 28.9% if data from UNESCAP is cited. The same discrepancy is true for figures for Iran for which the World Bank lists its female participation rate at 16% in 2010 and UNESCAP lists it as 26.9%. It is unclear why these two sources give significantly different numbers as their methodology and definitions of labor force participation were similar.\n\nAnother statistic indicative of female participation in the formal economy of a country is the ratio of female to male workers. As nations develop and their economies both expand and diversify, the expansion of jobs and industries increases this ratio, pushing it toward 1, provided female workers have access to job opportunities and firms, collectively, do not systematically discriminate against female candidates.\n\nGenerally speaking, the closer the ratio is to 1, the more gender equal an economy is because neither sex has a disproportionate share of jobs. Bangladesh and Indonesia have the largest ratio of these eleven countries with scores of 0.73 and 0.61, respectively. Nigeria also has a relatively large ratio of female to male workers of 0.51. Despite having twice the percentage of females in the actual labor force, Turkey's female to male laborer ratio is far lower than Iran's, 0.35 to 0.44. Similarly, Syria's ratio is barely smaller than Egypt's (0.27 as compared to 0.30) whereas Egypt's female population has twice the percentage size of formal economic workers as Syria's female labor force. These ratios are compiled and published by the World Economic Forum. The median annual income for female workers in the United States was $36,931 in 2010.\n\nThe Forum did not, however, list this information for Afghanistan, Iraq, or Tunisia. It is probable that the ratios are small given the low labor force participation rate of women in these countries and high unemployment rates, but given the uncertain correlation between female labor force participation rate and the ratio of male to female workers, this cannot be stated with any certainty. One possible explanation for the seeming discrepancy is the ratio of females to males in the population. In Syria, for every woman between the ages of 15 and 65, there are 1.03 males.\n\nSince there are more men than women for a limited number of jobs, more men, in absolute terms, are excluded from formal employment. Consequently, the ratio of female to male workers increases because women represent a larger percentage of those who work than they represent the entire labor force. Therefore, women would have a relatively higher ratio of female to male workers than its female labor force participation rate may suggest. The sheer size of the male component of the workforce may be sufficient to create a small ratio of female to male workers.\n\nTable 3: Ratio of Female-to-Male Workers\n\nSource: Global Gender Gap Report 2012, World Economic Forum\n\nSimilar to the ratio of female to male workers in the labor force is the percentage of the actual labor force composed of women. This differs from the labor force participation rate of women because it shows female workers as a percentage of the total number of workers in the economy as opposed to the percentage of the population of women that are involved in the formal economy. A large female labor force participation rate does not necessarily correlate to a substantial percentage of females in the labor force. However, a high female labor force participation rate demonstrates high economic participation by women in a country regardless of the size of the labor market itself that these women compose. Demographics, particularly birth rates, and human capital formation through education, good nutrition, and access to infrastructure and institutions may play a role in the discrepancies between these indicators.\n\nHowever, as one is a subsect of the other, the two figures generally move collinearly. Despite a lower female labor force participation rate and a smaller female to male worker ratio, Nigeria's female workers represent the largest component, in terms of percentage, of a nation's labor force when compared to the other ten countries. According to the International Labour Organization, 42.84% of the Nigerian labor force is composed of women. Bangladesh and Indonesia are a close second and third with 39.87% and 38.23%, respectively. Iraq, Syria, and Turkey's labor force's female composition rates (14.30%, 15.20%, and 28.69%, respectively) are quite close to their female labor force participation rates which suggests a population parity between men and women. This is interesting as many other Developing countries do not have population parity by gender.\n\nThere are a variety of characteristics of female employment such as salary and employment type which are meaningful indicators of female economic participation and female economic stability. These indicators help clarify the economic status women hold in some majority Muslim nations and the permanence of their involvement in the economy. In development economics, great emphasis has been placed on salaried work because it provides a stable source of income.\n\n\"Salaried worker\", as defined by the International Labour Organization, are \"workers who hold the type of jobs defined as 'paid employment job' where the incumbents hold explicit (written or oral), or implicit employment contracts that give them a basic remuneration that is not directly dependent upon the revenue of the unit for which they work.\" Fundamentally, salaried workers are more likely to be full-time or, even permanent workers. Thus, they are staples of the formal market whereas non-salaried workers are more or less on the fringe of economic activity which relegates them to limited participation in the formal market.\n\nWhile labor force participation rate sheds light on how many women work in the formal sectors of the economy, it says nothing about the type of work or the stable presence of women in the labor force. Countries such as Bangladesh and Indonesia, when female labor force participation rate or the ratio of male to female workers or similar indicators are considered, appear to have substantial female involvement in their economies. However, very few of the women in these nations have salaried work which means they may go through cycles of short periods of work punctuated by long periods of unemployment. Alternatively, these women may be shuffled from task to task for different employers and never develop a stable basis at a particular firm or within a particular field.\n\nIn Bangladesh and Indonesia, two majority Muslim countries with high female labor force participation rates, 11.70% and 31.70% of female workers are salaried, respectively. Perhaps counter intuitively, majority Muslim countries such as Egypt, Iran, Syria, and Tunisia which have low rates of female labor force participation and a relatively small number of actual female laborers have high rates of female salaried employees. In Egypt, 47.9% of employed females have salaried jobs.\n\nIn Iran, 46.8% of female workers are salaried and in Tunisia the percentage is 69.1%. Perhaps the most surprising case is Syria where 74.30% of women are salaried. This is the largest percentage in the Middle East and one of the highest in the entire Muslim world.\n\nIt is unclear why several nations with few female workers have such a high percentage of salaried women. One possible explanation is that so few women are active in the labor market because the demand for female employment is restricted to a few higher-paying, low-labor-intensive industries. If only a few women are needed but they need to have above-average skills, then these laborers' marginal value may necessitate salary as opposed to simple wages. This information has not been provided by the ILO for Iraq, Saudi Arabia, or Afghanistan.\n\nEmployees and self-employed\n\nWomen's role in the economy as employees, employers, or as self-employed labor units is another important characteristic of female labor force participation. In patriarchal societies or rigid(high degree of difficulty for workers to move between industries) labor markets, women are more likely to be employees than employers because they do not have the resources, skills, networks, or opportunities to either be promoted within a firm or to be owners of small or medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). In poor countries, or countries with large swaths of poverty within the population, which many predominantly Muslim nations are or have, the probability of self-employment is greater because women cannot find more established jobs.\n\nThere are, however, dozens of reasons why women may be employees, employers, or self-employed that reach beyond basic macroeconomic forces or social norms and conventions. According to the ILO, more than half, 53% of all female workers in Iran are self-employed. In Egypt, slightly fewer women are self-employed than are in Iran. Fifty-two percent of Egyptian female workers have their own business ventures. Bangladesh, Pakistan, and Indonesia have the highest rates of female self-employment with 86.7%, 77.9%, and 68.3%, respectively. Very few women are involved in the formal labor market in Pakistan but more than three fourths of them are self-employed. Nearly half of working women in Turkey are self-employers with 49% of female workers operating their own private enterprise or services. Female economic activity and participation is widely distributed across the Muslim world.\n\nThe female labor force participation rate, the ratio of female workers to male workers, the wage security of women, and other elements of formal economic activity cover a large interval across predominantly Muslim nations. However, across most majority Muslim nations, there is a sharp convergence on female employers. With the exception of Turkey, hardly any women are employers in many majority Muslim nations.\n\nIn Turkey, 48% of female workers are employers. This statistic suggests that Turkish women hire at least one additional worker for their self-employed commercial enterprises considering that self-employment is the most common form of employment among this demographic group. The second largest percentage of female employers as a percentage of female workers is 3% in Egypt. In Indonesia where 68% of women are self-employed and 38% of the labor force is composed of women, only 1% of these individuals are employers.\n\nOne tenth of one percent of female workers in Bangladesh are employers despite the nation's sizable female labor pool. This number is one eighth of the percentage of Syrian women who are employers. Syria has, of course, only one eighth the population of Bangladesh. In majority Muslim countries, very few women and a small percentage of women who do work are employers.\n\nSuch high rates of self-employment and low rates of females as employers suggest that the economies of Muslim nations provide few formal opportunities for females to work in the private sector. Furthermore, it suggests that even fewer women have the ability to advance within their organization when they do earn work with an established business. High rates of self-employment can be indicative of a gender biased economic system but it can also simply indicate a poorly developed system.\n\nThe wide gap between male and female labor force participation rates and ratios, and the gap between male and female employers is indicative of gender inequality within the private sector of majority Muslim countries. However, numerous reasons may account for these outcomes such as weak education infrastructure for women, low levels of economic development, or simply capital-intensive resource development. The latter characteristic is probably given how many majority Muslim nations are net oil exporters.\n\nTable 4: Percentage of Female Laborers as Employer\n\nSource: International Labour Organization\n\nUnemployment rates among women in majority Muslim countries are high. When aggregated by region, North Africa, the Middle East, and Southeast Asia, the three regions with the most and highest density of Muslims in the world, have the highest rates of female unemployment in the world. In North Africa, 17% of females are unemployed and 16% of women in the Middle East are unemployed.\n\nIn both these regions, male unemployment was only 10%. Only Sub-Saharan Africa had a male unemployment rate as high as 10%. Seven percent of women are unemployed in Southeast Asia as compared to 6% of men. South Asia, which contains a few majority Muslim nations such as Bangladesh, has a higher female unemployment rate, 6%, than a male unemployment rate which is 5%. However, non-Muslim regions of the world also demonstrate disproportional employment figures. In Latin America and the Caribbean, the female unemployment rate was 11% in 2006 while the male unemployment rate was only 7%.\n\nIn the European Union and other Developed countries such as the United States, female unemployment is higher than male unemployment. In 2006, Seven percent of women in the Developed World were unemployed as compared to 6% of men. Both rates have increased dramatically since the Great Recession but more women are still unemployed than men in these countries. Data demonstrates that a greater proportion of women are unemployed relative to men in majority Muslim countries but that trend is true of several non-Muslim majority regions as well.\n\nStructural unemployment in Muslim countries seems to be high for women and economic opportunities are limited. Possible explanations for this phenomenon could the same determinants of high self-employment among females and low rates of female employers: low levels of economic development, gendered employment social norms, or capital-intensive industry. This last explanation may be particularly salient in the oil-rich Muslim nations because petroleum exports are capital-intensive and require very high skilled labor which most Muslim women are incapable of providing given low levels of education. The Great Recession has increased unemployment across the board in many Muslim nations and female workers were not left unaffected. According to the World Bank, in 2009, 22.9% of women were unemployed in Egypt.\n\nIn Syria in 2010, 22.5% of women were unemployed. This figure has probably increased significantly due to the Syrian civil war. Indonesia, Pakistan, and Bangladesh all had female unemployment levels below 10% which is similar to female unemployment rates in many Developed countries such as the United States. Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, and Iran all have female unemployment rates ranging from 15% to 17%. Female unemployment in Iran may be exacerbated by the collateral effects US, UN, and European sanctions. To what extent this is true is uncertain.\n\nTable 5: Unemployment Rate\n\nSource: World Bank\n\nTurkey has a moderate level of female unemployment relative to other Muslim countries. In 2008, 11.6% of women were unemployed. By 2010, this number crept up to 13.0%. However, long-term employment is a significant portion of female unemployment. In 2010, according to World Bank statistics, 37% of all unemployed women were long-run unemployed workers, or workers who have been out of work for more than one year. Very little data exists on the long-term unemployment rates of women for most nations and for Middle Eastern nations in particular.\n\nIn many economies, women are traditionally funneled into specific occupations or employment fields. A similar trend is also present in the economies of many majority Muslim nation's economies as well. The International Labour Organization, the World Bank, and the UN divide a national economy into three broad categories: agriculture, industry, and services. Agriculture is any work which relates to the primary development of resources for nutritious consumption. According to the UN, whose definitions the ILO, World Bank, and other data collection bases use, agricultural work includes forestry, hunting, and fishing in addition to land cultivation. Industrial employment is involvement in the manufacturing of products from raw materials or work for the purpose of extracting raw materials. This includes mining, quarrying, oil and gas production, construction, and public utilities.\n\nServices-oriented labor revolves around the provision of consumable, non-durable goods and the fulfillment of tasks by an external source for the consumer. This includes wholesale and retail trade and restaurants and hotels; transport, storage, and communications; financing, insurance, real estate, and business services; and community, social, and personal services. Most female laborers in Muslim majority countries work in the agriculture sector but many also work in private service jobs. Few, though some, women are employed in industrial-oriented labor.\n\nTable 6: Female Employment by Sector\n\nSource: World Bank\n\nIn four of the eleven nations for which there is data, the percentage of female workers who are in the agricultural sector as compared to the percentage of female workers in the services sector. In Turkey, for example, 42% of female workers are employed in the agricultural sector and 42% work in some form of services enterprise. Forty-nine percent of female employees work in agriculture in Egypt as compared to 46% of women who work in the services industry. Saudi Arabia is the only nation in which women play a negligible role agriculture. Tunisian, Nigerian, and Iranian women are more evenly distributed across the economic sectors. Iranian female workers are particularly evenly distributed across all three divisions with 3 of 10 women in agriculture, 4 of 10 in services, and just over one quarter in industry. Saudi Arabian women, on the other hand, are entirely concentrated in the services industry.\n\nEmployment in agriculture is lower-paying and lower-skilled than so called \"white collared\" jobs. Agriculture is also incredibly labor-intensive. The combination of these characteristics may explain why so many women in majority Muslim countries work in agriculture. Female workers generally have fewer skills than male workers in Developing nations. Literacy rates and school enrollment rate of females are generally low and low relative to men in developing countries of which many majority countries are.\n\nAccordingly, they are not hired for high skill work but they provide an abundant labor source for physical work such as agriculture. However, many majority Muslim nations, including Egypt, Syria, Turkey, Iran, and Saudi Arabia, all of which have varying levels of female participation within their economies, have more than 80% of their female citizens enrolled in secondary education. Nearly all of them are literate as well.\n\nThis data somewhat undermines the traditional economic explanation of the concentration of female labor in agriculture. Regardless of the underlying reason for high female participation in agriculture, these workers earn a lower wage than their male counterparts both within this sector and relative to workers in other sectors. This may be one reason for the wide wage gap in some majority Muslim countries.\n\nFemale workers in majority Muslim nations are more concentrated in agricultural work than their counterparts in non-majority Muslim nations as well. For nations where data is available, Turkey, Syria, Pakistan, Iran, Indonesia, and Egypt had the highest percentage of female workers involved in agricultural labor than almost every other country. In these nations, anywhere from 20-49% of farm workers were female from 1995 to 2005. Over this time period, 50%-69% of farm workers in Turkey, Syria, and Pakistan were women. Only Cambodia, Laos, Ethiopia, Uganda, Tanzania, Zambia, and Madagascar had higher percentages of female agricultural workers.\n\nThe services sector also employs a significant percentage of females and, possibly, for similar reasons. Service jobs such as culinary arts, retail, and administrative work, similar to agriculture, is low-skill, low-paying labor-intensive work. Many bodies are needed to complete generally basic routine tasks. Accordingly, they are more suited to women in developing countries as higher-paying jobs may require a specificity of skills beyond those of the general female laborer and in countries with gender biases.\n\nWhile the percentage of women working low-skill agriculture and services work is compatible with the notion that women face limited economic opportunities in Muslim nations, data from the ILO does not support or refute that conclusion. Industrial work attracts few women which may be accounted for the physical nature of much industrial work. Furthermore, if women in majority Muslim countries are funneled into agriculture and service-oriented work due to a weak skill set, then it follows that they would not be hired for industrial work as some of it, such as smelting, requires specific vocational skills.\n\nThe glass ceiling is one prevalent concern about the quality of economic opportunity available to women involved in the formal labor market. This phenomenon is the de facto limitation of females' ability to achieve the top levels of leadership in an organization. While the concept is not restricted to the market, it is prevalent in profit-based institutions. With respect to female workers in majority Muslim countries, women are not evenly represented on the board of directors or among the senior management positions of most of the 100 most lucrative companies in the Arab World.\n\nIn Egypt, for example, there is only one female senior executive among its five largest commercial enterprises. Orascom Telecom Holding Company, which is the 62nd largest company in the Muslim World (nations whose populations are predominantly Islamic), has one female member of its board of directors. This woman, Elena Shmatova, however, is neither Egyptian nor Muslim which does not suggest opportunity for female advancement. Egypt's other largest firms by revenue, Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation, Suez Canal Authority, Orascom Construction Industries, and Telekom Egypt, do not have a single female member of their board of directors or among their senior management teams.\n\nNo women occupy the top leadership positions in the most profitable Iranian businesses either. Iran's three largest companies-National Iranian Oil Company (the second largest in the Muslim World), Iran Khodro, and National Petrochemical Company-also do not have any women in senior leadership positions. This is not surprising as the 2006 Iranian census showed that only 4% of women are in senior executive or management positions. Critics of Iran's radical shia theocratic government may attribute this evidence of limited female economic mobility as a critique of the government's ideology. However, in Turkey, which is a secular state governed by a moderate Islamic party, women comprised only 8% of managers in the labor force in 2007. Regardless of the official status of Islam or the ideology of the ruling party, there exists some evidence of a glass ceiling for women in the private sector.\n\nEleven of the Muslim world's largest businesses are located in Indonesia. These firms include automotive giant Astra International, Bank Rakyat Indonesia, and electric service provider Perusahaan Listrik Negara. Of these eleven firms, seven of them have at least one female member of the board of directors or a female in a senior executive management position. However, only Gudang Garam, a massive cigarette manufacturer, and Pertamina, the largest company in Indonesia, have 2 female members on the board of commissioners. Pertamina is owned and operated by Japanese, not Indonesian, executives, however, and none of its female leaders are Muslim or Indonesian.\n\nMajority Muslim countries have been criticized for implementing policies which perpetuate gender inequality. Limits on the economic rights of women under the rule of law are present in several Muslim nations. In Saudi Arabia, for example, women are allowed to work but their formal employment cannot interfere with her duties as a homemaker. Saudi female workers must also travel with male companions, and they cannot work unless their husbands or guardians approve.\n\nSociologists Helen Rizzo, Abdel-Hamid Abdel-Latif, and Katherine Meyer explored cultural attitudes in majority Muslim countries subdivided by Arab and non-Arab. The Arab states studied were Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Algeria, Morocco, and Jordan while the non-Arab nations were Turkey, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Nigeria, and Indonesia. To be Arab nations, states had to be members of the Arab League and recognize Arabic as the official language. Of these states, Rizzo et al. found that the Arab states were significantly less pro-gender equality and opportunity for women than the non-Arab states despite their shared Islamic faith.\n\nHowever, neither group of countries was pro-gender equality in the sense that policies aimed at equal rights between the sexes are popular. In Arab countries, 82% of survey respondents believe that a man has more right to a job than a woman while 63% of respondents from the non-Arab countries felt the same way. These researchers attributed these attitudes to the strong religious identity and adherence of respondents thus implicating Islam in promoting gender inequality in majority Muslim nations.\n\nAcademic literature is mixed on this subject, however. Some scholars do not believe that gender inequality in majority Muslim states is a product of Islam. Feminist sociologist Valentine Moghadam has written extensively on gender inequality, including employment inequality, in the Muslim World.\n\nAccording to Moghadam, women are victims of clear political, economic, and social disparities in many Islamic countries which create gender distinctions within the public and private spheres. This inhibits the ability of women to participate in the government or to advance in the private sector. Moghadam specifically points to low female labor force participation across the board in Muslim states as a sign of gender inequality as do other scholars (Youseff 1978, Sivard 1985).\n\nHowever, she does not believe that Islam is the root cause of gender inequality in the Muslim World because it is implemented differently in different countries, the status of women in the Muslim World is varied, and numerous other factors (state ideology, economic development, urbanization, etc.) affect gender equality. She points at that certain views which are considered by critics of Islam to be indicative of a gender-biased theology are present in other religions. Viewing women as mothers and daughters first and foremost, for example, is also a common belief among Orthodox Jews according to Moghadam.\n\nMany cultures divide occupations along gender lines such as teaching and education administration or nursing and doctors. Why are Muslim nations singled out for holding similar gender biases as non-Muslim nations, asks Moghadam. She does state, however, that the presence of fundamentalist Islamic voices in influential positions in states such as Iran, Afghanistan, and Pakistan has helped perpetuate institutionalized gender disparities. Iran, in particular, provides little economic opportunity for women which has resulted in limited participation in the formal economy. In 1986, for example, 11 million women were not counted in the labor force because the Iranian regime deemed them to be \"homemakers.\" Many women, particularly agricultural workers, do not receive wages frequently, which marginalizes them as economic actors.\n\nZiba Mir-Hosseini takes a middle path on the question of Islam and gender equality as do many other theorists. Hosseieni is a visiting school at New York University Law school. Hosseini argues that the faith of Islamic and general principles promote gender equality. According to Hosseini, theocratic Islamic regimes which conflate theocracy with democracy, such as Iran or Afghanistan under the Taliban, create a tension which reinforces fundamentalist, reactionary thinking. This in turn leads to the repression of women. She argues that it is not that majority Muslim nations are intrinsically predisposed to gender inequality, it is that ultra conservative regimes are. This is also occurring in Iraq under Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki. Hosseini points to \"Islamic feminism\" as proof of Islam's inherent compatibility with gender equality and a sign that Muslim states will progress toward gender equality while remaining Islamic in character. A patriarchal interpretation of Islam must be defeated, not Islam itself, argues Hosseini.\n\nGender equality in the workplace is a major concern of many social activists, public officials, and academics, among others. Even in Developed Countries and wealthy democracies such as the United States there is concern of gender inequities in economic mobility for women. American President Barack Obama's Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act was passed in response to concerns among Americans that women were receiving lower wages for equal work. Wages and wage equality with men are two common indicators of gender equality and opportunity within a formal market. Higher aggregate wages indicate that females are holding more productive, valued jobs which is considered indicative of social progress. Equal pay with men demonstrates a neutrality to gender within the workplace and may suggest functional fairness between female workers and their male counterparts. Given these two indicators, wage statistics suggest that gender equality in terms of economic participation and the quality of formal economic opportunities are not high in many predominantly Muslim nations. In 2011, the World Economic Forum gathered information about the estimated earned income of women in 135 countries. Of these countries, Syria placed 134th in terms of earned annual income for women.\n\nEgypt finished 126th, Iran was 130th, Pakistan was 131st, and Saudi Arabia was 132nd. Even countries such as Bangladesh, Indonesia, and Turkey, which have substantially larger and higher-status female participation in their economies, placed 90th, 112th, and 121st, respectively, in terms of earned annual income for female laborers. Several poorer and more volatile states in Sub-Saharan Africa outperformed these nations. The estimated annual income of these women were, in terms of U.S. dollars' purchasing power parity, quite low and only a fraction of their male counterparts' wages.\n\nTurkey and Saudi Arabia award women the highest annual incomes when adjusted for purchasing power parity in terms of U.S. dollars. Female workers in Turkey are estimated by the World Economic Forum to earn $7,813 while Saudi female workers earn $6,652. Women in Pakistan don't even earn $1,000 for a year's worth of labor ($940) Egyptian, Syrian, Indonesian, Nigerian, and Bangladeshi women earn less, far less for some countries (Syria, Bangladesh, Nigeria), than $3,000 annually. The median annual income for female workers in the United States was $36,931 in 2010.\n\nWomen in these countries earn very low wages when compared to men from the same country. Out of 11 of the most populated and economically significant Muslim majority nations (Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Turkey, Syria, Tunisia, Nigeria, Indonesia, Pakistan, and Bangladesh) only two nations, Bangladesh and Nigeria have a gender wage gap below 50%. In Nigeria, women earn 57 cents to the dollar of a man, according to the World Economic Forum's Gender Gap Report 2012. Women in Bangladesh earn 52% of their males counterparts' wage. In Syria, women only earn 15% of a man's wage.\n\nThese large disparities in income size and relative size to men in addition to low overall labor involvement, few salaried positions, and high levels of unemployment suggest that these nations' economies perpetuate significant gender disparities. However, low wages and large wage gaps can be explained by the different types of work men and women perform in these countries. If women are hired for mostly low-skill, low-wage work which is less productive and less elastic in demand than the work of most men, then their wages should be low and be significantly smaller than men's wages. Furthermore, a large supply of female labor for the few jobs women do work in these various economies may be depressing wages.\n\nLow wages in absolute terms and low wages relative to men's wages in the aggregate, however, do not provide a full picture of gender economic equity. The ratio of income for women to men for equal work is another significant financial indicator of economic gender equality. Using this metric, these countries, collectively, are moderately equal relative to the majority of the world. The World Economic Forum's 2012 Gender Report found that women in Iran, Turkey, Indonesia, and Saudi Arabia all received approximately 60% of the wages of a male for the same work.\n\nRespectively, these nations were ranked 87th, 85th, 58th, and 94th in the world out of 135. While not terribly equal, these nations were not too far behind the median nation. Egypt, however, is the most gender equal country in terms of equal pay. The World Economic Forum found that Egyptian women receive 82% of the income of their true male counterparts, not of men in general. No other nation's women earn as high an income percentage as that.\n\n'Global Gender Gap Index\n\nAn additional measurement of gender inequality is the World Economic Forum global gender gap index which it measures for 135 countries each year and publishes its results in its \"Gender Gap Report.\" Its statistic is known as the \"Global Gender Gap Index.\" The index measures gender disparities in economic, political, health, and educational spheres and uses corresponding criteria.\n\nThe GGGI utilizes four sub-indices to measure these four spheres of inequality and to create a composite metric of gender inequality. The four sub-indices are: economic participation and opportunity, educational attainment, health and survival, and political empowerment. The economic participation and opportunity subindex \"is captured through three concepts: the participation gap, the remuneration gap and the advancement gap. The participation gap is captured using the difference in labour force participation rates. The remuneration gap is captured through a hard data indicator (ratio of estimated female-to-male earned income) and a qualitative variable calculated through the World Economic Forum’s Executive Opinion Survey (wage equality for similar work). Finally, the gap between the advancement of women and men is captured through two hard data statistics (the ratio of women to men among legislators, senior officials and managers, and the ratio of women to men among technical and professional workers).\"\n\nThe index is measured on a scale of 0 to 1 with 1 indicating a perfectly equal level of participation in the labor market between men and women and equal economic opportunities and o indicating complete inequality. Of the 135 nations analyzed, Pakistan (134), Syria (132), and Saudi Arabia (131) are in the bottom five countries for female labor force participation and for the provision of labor opportunities for women.\n\nTable 7: Economic Participation and Opportunity\n\nSource: Global Gender Report 2012, World Economic Forum\n\nThe GGGI is a comprehensive index relative to other measures of gender inequality such as the Gender Inequality Index produced by the United Nations. One serious critique of the index, however, is that the measurement of a country's gender equality is too dependent on income. While the ratio of income between men and women is taken into account, over reliance on financial data may benefit more Developed countries by virtue of having larger economies which can accommodate higher wages. The multiple subsections of the index, however, aim to condition the final measurement of economic participation and opportunity with emphasis on the ratio of wages, job advancement, and other metrics of females to males. This methodology quantifies gender inequality by analyzing the gap between males and females instead of absolute measurements.\n\nThe most frequently cited indicator of gender inequality is the United Nation's Gender Inequality Index, or GII. It was adopted in 2010 because the Gender Development Index did not measure gender inequality directly. It measured female development. The Gender Empowerment Measurement was replaced as well due to its overemphasis of income. As a consequence of this methodological construction, the GEM over estimated gender inequality in poor countries. Consequently, the GII was adopted to address these flaws and to be a true measure of inequality and not a proxy indicator. Income is not a component of the GII and the three categories are weighed equally to present a balance assessment of gender equality. The GII covers three broad categories of female disadvantage: reproductive health, empowerment, and labor market status.\n\nThe purpose of the index is to demonstrate the loss of human development due to inequalities between men and women. The three categories are measured with the following metrics. Reproductive health is measured by the maternal mortality rate and the adolescent fertility rate. Empowerment is indicated by the share of parliamentary seats held by each sex and secondary and higher education levels of each sex. Finally, the labor market aspect of the GII is measured by women's participation rate in the workforce. Mathematically, it is the approximated loss of human development to women due to inequality.\n\nPhilosophically and methodologically, the GII is based on and, in some sense, a subindicator of the Human Development Index. Scores for nations are on a scale of 0 to 1 where 0 is pure gender equality and 1 is pure gender inequality. GII is measured in a similar manner as the Inequality-adjusted Human Development Index. According to the UN, IHDI is \"based on a distribution-sensitive class of composite indices proposed by Foster, Lopez-Calva, and Szekely (2005), which draws on the Atkinson (1970) family of inequality measures. It is computed as the geometric mean of dimension indices adjusted for inequality. The inequality in each dimension is estimated by the Atkinson inequality measure, which is based on the assumption that a society has a certain level of aversion to inequality.\" \n\nTable 8: United Nations Gender Inequality Index\n\nSource: United Nations\n\nThe median GII score for the global community is 0.463. When divided by regions, the Arab States have the third worst GII score of 0.555. This score is only superior to the scores of Sub-Saharan Africa (0.577) and South Asia (0.568). While not all encompassing and inclusive of other religious and cultural groups, these three regions, particularly the Arab States and South Asia, are inhabited by large Muslim populations. Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iran, Iraq, Turkey, Syria, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Indonesia, and Bangladesh all have GII scores above the median. Only Tunisia's score (0.293) is below the median. However, it is significantly below the median.\n\nGender inequality, however, is not increasing or decreasing in a collinear fashion among these predominantly Muslim states. In Afghanistan, for example, gender inequality, as measured by the index, improved by 2% from 2005 to 2008 but then declined by 2% from 2008 to 2011. In Iraq, the GII score jumped by 9% from 2005 to 2008 but then leveled off in 2011. Turkey, Indonesia, Tunisia, and Pakistan have seen consistent improves to gender equality since 2005. Due to the broad, general nature of the indicators, the minimal and narrow data used to compile the three categories which compose the indicator, and innumerable political and socio-economic issues which may increase or decrease gender inequality, nothing definitive can be said about the level of gender inequality or its growth trend in many predominantly Muslim nations.\n\n"}
{"id": "14617591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14617591", "title": "Flag of the Community of Portuguese Language Countries", "text": "Flag of the Community of Portuguese Language Countries\n\nThe flag of the Community of Portuguese Language Countries (or \"flag of the CPLP\") represents the intergovernmental organization for friendship among Lusophone (Portuguese-speaking) nations where Portuguese is an official language. The Portuguese language countries are home to more than 223 million people located across the globe. The CPLP nations cover a combined area of about . The CPLP was formed in 1996 with seven countries: Portugal, Brazil, a former colony in South America, and five former colonies in Africa—Angola, Cape Verde, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, and São Tomé and Príncipe. East Timor joined the community in 2002 after regaining independence from Indonesia; Equatorial Guinea joined in 2014. Senegal and Mauritius are associate members.\n\nThe flag symbolises the Portuguese-speaking countries' union: having a blue circle, divided into eight equal wavy shapes (the numbers of members of the CPLP) representing the sea (primary bond between the Community), at the center of a white field, in the center of which a small concentrical blue circle was placed representing the union.\n\n"}
{"id": "5385860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5385860", "title": "Forge of Heaven", "text": "Forge of Heaven\n\nForge of Heaven is a science fiction novel by American science fiction and fantasy author . It was first published in June 2004 in the United States by HarperCollins under its Eos Books imprint. \n\n\"Forge of Heaven\" is the second of two novels set in Cherryh's Gene Wars universe, and concerns gene manipulation using nanotechnology, and contact with an alien race, the \"ondat\". The first novel, \"Hammerfall\" was published in June 2001.\n\nHuman territory consisted of the Inner Worlds, governed by Earth Federation, who maintained strict control on the use of biotech and frowned on genetic manipulation, and Outsider Space, near the edge of human space, who openly used biotech for their own benefit. In Outsider Space a group called the Movement broke away from local authority, and by joining nanotech and biotech, bioengineered humans, livestock and agriculture for the colonizing other planets. Fearing contamination, Earth severed all direct contact with Outsider Space, but assisted the moderate Outsider governments, who themselves feared runaway biochange, in tracking down and destroying Movement bases.\n\nThe outlawed Movement moved their biotech beyond Outsider Space and onto worlds, unbeknown to them, in space occupied by an unknown alien species, the \"ondat\". The \"ondat\" came into contact with the Movement's aggressively adaptive nanisms and unwittingly spread it to their homeworld. Unable to distinguish between the Movement, Outsiders and Earth, the aliens went to war with humankind, sparking the Gene Wars. But when they saw Earth and the Outsiders destroying Movement bases, the \"ondat\" learnt that not all humans were the enemy. After the Movement was neutralized, the \"ondat\" withdrew to their original borders, and Earth and the Outsiders maintained a shaky truce with the \"ondat\" that lasted for 300 years. Second and Third Movements later sprang up, but they were driven underground and eventually eliminated.\n\nThe \"ondat\" were an enigma: no one ever saw them and communication was all but impossible. But years after the end of the Gene Wars, an \"ondat\" ship initiated contact by entering human space and leading a human ship to a planet in \"ondat\" territory that had a functioning First Movement base. They indicated that they wanted to destroy the world, and Earth concurred, but the Outsiders wanted to rescue those on the planet and get their hands on First Movement technology that may have advanced beyond what they had previously encountered. Earth yielded to the Outsider's request because they knew that if the \"ondat\" ever started a bioengineered attack, the Outsiders would be better equipped to counter them.\n\nTwo Outsider scientists, Luz and Ian, landed on the surface to look for Movement technology and rescue as many locals as they could before the \"ondat\" began scouring the planet. They were amazed to discover a member of the original First Movement, the Ila, alive after hundreds of years, ruling and spreading her nanoceles. The Outsiders requested a century to study these nanoceles to see if they could be adapted to reverse contamination here and elsewhere; the \"ondat\" gave them 40 years. The events of \"Hammerfall\" followed, where Marak brought many of the locals, including the Ila and her records, to Luz's Refuge before the \"ondat\"'s hammer fell.\n\nConcord Station was constructed to orbit Marak's World where representatives from Earth, the Outsiders and the \"ondat\" monitored the planet's recovery and enforced the Treaty between the three parties, that no First Movement technology must leave the planet. Luz and Ian remained on Marak's World and released their own nanisms to eliminate the Ila's contaminants. With Marak, they monitored the planet's rehabilitation from the ground and fed data up to the station. The station in turn sent down to the still unstable planet invaluable weather reports.\n\n\"Forge of Heaven\" takes place several centuries after \"Hammerfall\". The transformation of Marak's World is monitored on the ground by Marak, assisted by Luz and Ian, and planetary watchers on Concord Station using taps, nanocele implants that enable watchers and those on the planet to communicate with one another. Kekellen, the \"ondat\"'s representative on the station, whom no one has ever seen, is particularly interested in Marak and his activities, and uses it to help understand humans. Procyon is Marak's watcher on Concord.\n\nUnannounced, a ship from Earth arrives at the station and Earth ambassador Andreas Gide demands to interrogate Procyon about whether illegal First Movement technology is leaving the planet. Fearing Outsider contamination, Gide enters the station in a sealed mobile containment unit. Procyon assures Gide that, to his knowledge, no illicit technology is leaving the planet, but as the interview ends, Gide is shot at with an armor-piercing shell, which breaches his containment field. Gide is taken to hospital on the station, but because he has now been exposed to Outsider \"contaminates\", he is unable to return to the Earth ship. Procycon, concussed from the blast, wanders off and is soon lost in the station's corridors.\n\nProcyon's disappearance causes problems for the Planetary Observations Office, which oversees communications with the world below. Marak, who has become dependent on Procycon, demands to know what has happened to his watcher. Kekellen, concerned about the disruption of the Planetary Observation Project, intervenes. Using station maintenance robots, he rescues Procycon, but implants a tap in him, enabling Kekellen to keep in touch with him.\n\nIt is revealed that Movement technology \"was\" leaked from the planet via the Ila's watcher on Concord and exported to Orb, a nearby station where sophisticated illicits were being manufactured. The Ila inadvertently kills her watcher when she attempts to hack Concord's tap system. With the help of the \"ondat\", Movement operatives on Concord are neutralized and their conduit to Orb is severed.\n\nProject operations on Concord resume and Procyon returns to work as Marak's tap. On the planet, geological upheavals have resulted in a new sea forming with new weather patterns and the promise of new life evolving. The \"ondat\", via Procyon, are now closer to Marak's World and is able to watch the planet's rebirth first hand.\n\nWriting in SFRevu, author and academic Edward Carmien (editor of \"The Cherryh Odyssey\") described \"Forge of Heaven\" as \"immersive, imaginative, and compelling\". He said Cherryh's switch from her intense third-person narrative in \"Hammerfall\", which he said \"can become oppressive\", to this novel's multi-threaded narrative, has made it a \"livelier\" and more interesting read. In a review in \"Booklist\", Paula Luedtke wrote that despite the novel's uneven pace, it should not be \"underestimated\". She said \"it gathers momentum toward the stunning and unexpected ending that is realized with masterly aplomb\".\n\nA \"Publishers Weekly\" review described \"Forge of Heaven\" as a \"suspenseful sequel to \"Hammerfall\"\", and called Procyon \"[a]mong the many nicely drawn characters\" in the book. A reviewer in Kirkus Reviews called the \"[i]ntrigue and strife\" in \"Forge of Heaven\" a \"desperately complicated setup\" with a plot that is \"going nowhere\", but added that given the author's strength as a storyteller, \"you almost don’t notice\".\n\nIn \"The Cherryh Odyssey\" science fiction writer and literary critic John Clute described \"Hammerfall\" as \"an epic, with prose rhythms that evoke the Bible\", but added that he had not worked it out, and awaited \"the New Testament\", the sequel, which he hoped would be \"something else\". Clute said that while \"Forge of Heaven\" is not quite \"the New Testament\", it is \"queerly and fascinatingly Asimovian\" in so far as it is about \"the conflict between change and stability\", the backbone of Asimov's \" Foundation\" and \"Robot\" series.\n\n"}
{"id": "57843562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57843562", "title": "Fundacion Chirivella Soriano", "text": "Fundacion Chirivella Soriano\n\nThe Fundacion Chirivella Soriano is a private foundation in Valencia, Spain, devoted to the study, exhibition, interpretation and preservation of modern and contemporary art. The Foundation is located in the Palau Joan de Valeriola, a 14th century gothic building in the historic center of the city of Valencia. The Foundation has one of the most prominent art collections in Spain.\n\nThe collection was established by Alicia Soriano and Manuel Chirivella and is one of the most comprehensive collections of Spanish art. It includes majors works by artists such as Antonio Saura, Manolo Millares, Equipo 57, Equipo Cronica, Elena Asins, Jose Maria Yturralde, Jose Maria Sicilia and Dario Villalba among others. Since 2005, the collection has been presented in several thematic exhibitions, including shows devoted to geometric abstraction, the use of black and white colors in art, art and politics during the Spanish Transition to democracy, and color and poetry among other presentations.\n\nThe Foundation programs three exhibitions a year focussed both on interpretations of the collection and on contemporary and emerging artists. Since 2015, the Foundation hosts the World Press Photo in Valencia, the most prestigious exhibition devoted to photojournalism.\n\nThe Palau Joan de Valeriola is one of the finest examples of the civil gothic architecture in the Mediterranean. The building was the residence of Joan de Valeriola, descendant of Arnau Valleriola, the most important financier in 14th century Valencia. The last member of the family that occupied the palace was Gaspar, who joined the Borja family after marrying Anna de Borja, niece of Pope Alexander VI. Its patrimonial and architectural value is based on its interior spaces, its unique Gothic elements (arches, windows, chairs) and the uniqueness of its wooden ceilings covered with great decorative details that were rediscovered during the rehabilitation of the building.\n\n"}
{"id": "48764749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48764749", "title": "Gerontissa Gavrielia", "text": "Gerontissa Gavrielia\n\nGerontissa Gavrielia (Elder Gabriela), also known as Mother Gavrielia (15 October 1897 – 28 March 1992) was a Greek Orthodox nun, known for her care of the poor and sick. She was the second woman to be admitted to a Greek university and was a trained physiotherapist prior to taking up her religious calling at the age of 60.\n\nAvrilia Papayannis was born on 15 October (2 October O.S.) 1897 N.S. in Constantinople in the Ottoman Empire as the youngest child of Helias and Victoria Papayannis, a wealthy Greek family. She grew up in Constantinople and lived there until her family was deported during the 1923 population exchange between Greece and Turkey and sent to Thessaloniki. She entered the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, becoming the second woman ever admitted to a Greek university, where she earned a degree in philosophy. She had previously graduated with a degree in botany at a Swiss university. In 1932, she moved to Athens and cared for nursing home residents until 1938 when she moved to England to study podiatry and physiotherapy, where she remained until the end of World War II.\n\nIn 1945, Papayannis returned to Greece and began working with the American Farm School and Friends Relief Service in Thessaloniki, until 1947, when she moved to Athens and opened a physiotherapy practice. For a decade she operated her office using funds from her paying clients to provide assistance to the poor. Upon the death of her mother, in 1954, she took a vow of poverty and gave all her worldly possessions away. The following year, she moved to India to work with the poor and assist Baba Amte in his work with leper communities in India. After four years of providing free physiotherapy to the poor, Papayannis went to the Himalayan Mountains, spending eleven months in solitude as a hermit. She then traveled to Landour where she met an American woman, who arranged for her to go to the monastery headed by Father Theodosius in Bethany, in the Holy Land in 1960. She arrived at the Bethany Community of the Resurrection of the Lord and after accepting tonsure became a nun. After her three-year novitiate, Papayannis took the name Gavrielia.\n\nSister Gavrielia was sent to the Taizé Community in France by the Patriarch Athenagoras I of Constantinople, though her assignment there was brief. She was then sent to the United States, where she toured ethnic Greek communities in seventeen states and accompanied many mentally ill patients to psychiatric hospitals in Europe. After nearly a decade of touring, speaking, and helping the sick, she was sent to East Africa for three years to do missionary work. Following a brief assignment in Germany, Sister Gavrielia was sent back to India, where she remained for three years. In 1979, she was given use of an Athens apartment and became a \"Gerontissa\" (elder), counseling disciples and helping the sick over the next ten years. Near the end of her life, she retreated to a hermitage in Aegina, but when she developed Hodgkin's disease she returned to Athens. After a miraculous healing, she left Athens two years before her death and moved to the island of Leros. Gerontissa Gavrielia died on Leros on 28 March, 1992.\n\nIn 1996 a biography of her life entitled \"I Askitiki tis Agapis\" was published in Greek, in 1999 the book was translated into English, and in 2000 into Russian. It has since had 14 Greek editions, 2 English editions, and has been translated into Arabic, French and Serbian.\n\n"}
{"id": "2164292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164292", "title": "Guerlain", "text": "Guerlain\n\nGuerlain () is a French perfume, cosmetics and skincare house, which is among the oldest in the world. Many traditional Guerlain fragrances are characterized by a common olfactory accord known as the \"Guerlinade\". The house was founded in Paris in 1828 by the perfumer Pierre-François Pascal Guerlain. It was run by the Guerlain family until 1994, when it was bought by the French multinational company LVMH. Its flagship store is 68, Avenue des Champs-Elysées in Paris.\n\nThe House of Guerlain was owned and managed by members of the Guerlain family from its inception in 1828 to 1994. It was acquired in 1994 by the LVMH group, a French multinational investment corporation specializing in luxury brands.\n\nThe House of Guerlain was founded in 1828, when Pierre-François Pascal Guerlain opened his perfume store at 42, rue de Rivoli in Paris. As both the founder and first perfumer of the house, Pierre-François composed and manufactured custom fragrances with the help of his two sons, Aimé and Gabriel. Through continued success and the patronage of members in high society, Guerlain opened its flagship store at 15, rue de la Paix in 1840, and put its mark on the Parisian fashion scene.\n\nThe success of the house under Pierre-François peaked in 1853 with the creation of \"Eau de Cologne Impériale\" for French Emperor Napoleon III and his Spanish-French wife Empress Eugénie. This perfume earned Pierre-François the prestigious title of being His Majesty's Official Perfumer. Guerlain went on to create perfumes for Queen Victoria of the United Kingdom and Queen Isabella II of Spain, among other royalty.\n\nWith the death of Pierre-François in 1864, the house was left to his sons Aimé Guerlain and Gabriel Guerlain. The roles of perfumer and manager were divided between the two brothers, with Gabriel managing and further expanding the house, and Aimé becoming the master perfumer. The House of Guerlain thus began a long tradition whereby the position of master perfumer was handed down through the Guerlain family.\n\nAs Guerlain's second generation in-house perfumer, Aimé was the creator of many classic compositions, including \"Fleur d'Italie\" (1884), \"Rococo\" (1887) and \"Eau de Cologne du Coq\" (1894). However, many would argue that his greatest composition was 1889's \"Jicky\", the first fragrance described as a \"parfum\" rather than an eau de cologne, and among the first to use synthetic ingredients alongside natural extracts.\n\nThe business was handed down to the sons of Gabriel Guerlain: Jacques Guerlain and Pierre Guerlain. Jacques, Aimé's nephew, became Guerlain's third master perfumer; he was the author of many of Guerlain's most famous classics, which are still held in high esteem in the modern perfume industry. Many of his perfumes are still sold and marketed today. Among Jacques Guerlain's most important creations are \"Mouchoir de Monsieur \"(1904), \"Après L'Ondée \"(1906), \"L'Heure Bleue\" (1912), \"Mitsouko\" (1919), Guerlain's flagship fragrance \"Shalimar\" (1925), and \"Vol de Nuit\" (1933). Jacques composed his final perfume, \"Ode\" (1955), with the assistance of his grandson, the then-18-year-old Jean-Paul Guerlain.\n\nJean-Paul Guerlain was the last family master perfumer. He created Guerlain's classic men's fragrances \"Vétiver\" (1959) and \"Habit Rouge\" (1965). He also created \"Chant d'Arômes\" (1962), \"Chamade\" (1969), \"Nahéma\" (1979), \"Jardins de Bagatelle\" (1983), and \"Samsara\" (1989), as well as \"Héritage\" and \"Coriolan\" in the 1990s. Jean-Paul Guerlain retired in 2002, but continued to serve as advisor to his successor until 2010, when he was terminated after making a racist remark on French television regarding the inspiration for his scent Samsara. With no heir from within the Guerlain family to take over, the role of master perfumer is no longer tied to family succession.\n\nIn a decision widely seen as a break with tradition, the Guerlain family sold the company to the luxury goods conglomerate Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton (LVMH) in 1994. Though Jean-Paul Guerlain remained as an in-house perfumer until 2002, other perfumers were brought in after 1994 to compose perfumes for Guerlain, and Jean-Paul had to submit his compositions against those of others. Fans of the house viewed the LVMH purchase as a step towards the cheapening and commercialization of the legendary firm's legacy. Most were unhappy with the first post-LVMH release, the 1996 sweet mimosa floral \"Champs-Elysées\", composed by Olivier Cresp, whose entry was selected over that of Jean-Paul Guerlain.\n\nAmong the outside perfumers to compose perfumes for the firm after 1994 was Mathilde Laurent, who worked for Guerlain at the end of the 1990s and in the early 2000s. She composed \"Aqua Allegorica Pamplelune\" (1999) and \"Shalimar Light\" (2003, reattributed to Jean-Paul Guerlain and relaunched in 2004 following reformulation). Maurice Roucel, a perfumer of Symrise, composed \"L'Instant de Guerlain\" (2004) and \"Insolence\" (2006). As the niece of Jean-Jacques Guerlain, some thought Patricia de Nicolaï would have been a candidate for the position of Guerlain's in-house perfumer, though the presence of a glass ceiling in the company prevented her selection for position.\n\nIn May 2008, Thierry Wasser was named the in-house perfumer for Guerlain. Wasser, a Swiss perfumer who used to work for Firmenich, created \"Iris Ganache\" (2007) and \"Quand Vient la Pluie\" (2007) for Guerlain before his appointment the following year. Jean-Paul Guerlain stayed on in an advisory consultant role, both for fragrance design and ingredients. Wasser will work closely with Sylvaine Delacourte, Guerlain's Artistic Director. In 2010, the LVMH Group cut ties with Jean-Paul Guerlain as their consultant due to his racist comments on French television.\n\nRussian model Natalia Vodianova has been the face of Guerlain campaigns since 2008. Vodianova began advertising \"Shalimar\" to celebrate the perfume house's 180th birthday. For the Fall 2013 makeup collection, Olivier Echaudemaison, Guerlian's Creative Director of Makeup since 2000 commented \"Every season we fantasize with Natalia's image and invent for her a new role. For us, it is not just a model, which advertises cosmetics, but above all, a great actress\". \nIn October 2011, the company named Malaysian actress Michelle Yeoh as a new spokesmodel. Yeoh is an ambassador for the Orchidée Impériale line of skincare.\n\nGuerlain's creations have long influenced the trends of perfumery with fragrances such as \"Jicky\", \"Shalimar\", and \"Vétiver\". Guerlain is among the few older houses (such as Caron) that exist solely to produce and market perfumes. Many brands in the perfume industry, such as Chanel and Jean Patou are in fact divisions of fashion houses or multinational conglomerates that license the brand name. Alongside its fragrances, today Guerlain has expanded to offer a large range of makeup and skincare. Guerlain products are available across the world at serviced counters within department stores, and at beauty stores such as fellow LMVH brand Sephora. Guerlain also maintains thirteen international beauty and spa 'boutiques', five within France (two being in Paris).\n\n\n\nSince its foundation in 1828, Guerlain has created over 300 fragrances. These include:\n\n"}
{"id": "28517410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28517410", "title": "History of cross-dressing", "text": "History of cross-dressing\n\nThis article details the history of cross-dressing. Cross-dressing is the act of dressing in the clothes of the sex or gender one does not identify with.\n\n\n\n\nPatriarchy is the social system in which men have all of the power towards women and their families in regards to the tradition, law, division of labor, and education women can take part in. Women used cross-dressing to pass as men in order to live adventurous lives outside of the home, which were unlikely to occur while living as women. Women who engaged in cross-dressing in earlier centuries were lower class women who would gain access to economic independence as well as freedom to travel risking little of what they had. Cross-dressing that consisted of women dressing as men had more positive attitudes than vice versa; Altenburger states that female to male cross-dressing depicted a movement forward in terms of social status, power, and freedom. Men who cross-dressed were looked down upon because they automatically lost status when dressed as a woman. It was also said that men would cross-dress to gain access around women for their own sexual desire.\n\nFamous historical examples of cross-dressing people include:\n\n\nBallads have many cross-dressing heroines. While some (\"The Famous Flower of Serving-Men\") merely need to move about freely, many do it specifically in pursuit of a lover (\"Rose Red and the White Lily\" or \"Child Waters\") and consequently pregnancy often complicates the disguise. In the Chinese poem the \"Ballad of Mulan\", Hua Mulan disguised herself as a man to take her elderly father's place in the army.\n\nOccasionally, men in ballads also disguise themselves as women, but not only is it rarer, the men dress so for less time, because they are merely trying to elude an enemy by the disguise, as in \"Brown Robin\", \"The Duke of Athole's Nurse\", or \"Robin Hood and the Bishop\". According to \"Gude Wallace\", William Wallace disguised himself as a woman to escape capture, which may have been based on historical information.\n\nFairy tales seldom feature cross-dressing, but an occasional heroine needs to move freely as a man, as in the German \"The Twelve Huntsmen\", the Scottish \"The Tale of the Hoodie\", or the Russian \"The Lute Player\". Madame d'Aulnoy included such a woman in her literary fairy tale, \"Belle-Belle ou Le Chevalier Fortuné\".\n\nIn the cities Techiman and Wenchi (both Ghana) men dress as women – and vice versa – during the annual Apoo festival (April/May).\n\nIn the myth of the Trojan War, Achilles' mother Thetis wanted to keep him from joining the Greek forces (and thus dying in battle as was prophesied), so she dresses him in women's clothes and hides him among a cloister of women. When the Greek envoy arrives to fetch him for battle, Odysseus is suspicious of Achilles' absence and concocts a scheme to reveal the deception: he offers gifts to all the women, including among them a sword and shield. Then he has an alarm sounded, and when Achilles instinctively grabs the weapons to defend himself, the ruse is revealed and he must join the Greek army and fight at Troy.\n\nIn Ludovico Ariosto's \"Orlando Furioso\", Bradamante, being a knight, wears full-plate armor; similarly, Britomart wears full-plate armor in Edmund Spenser's \"The Faerie Queene\". Intentionally or not, this disguises them as men, and they are taken as such by other characters. In \"Orlando Furioso\", Fiordespina falls in love with Bradamante; her brother Ricciardetto disguises himself as his sister, dressing as a woman, persuades Fiordespina that he is Bradamante, magically changed into a man to make their love possible, and in his female attire is able to conduct a love affair with her.\n\nIn Giannina Braschi's mock diary, \"Intimate Diary of Solitude/el diario intimo de la soledad\" (the finale of the Latin American trilogy \"Empire of Dreams/el imperio de los suenos\") the heroine Mariquita Samper is a cross-dressing Macy's makeup artist who plots a literary revolution to kill the narrator.\n\nIn \"Arcadia\", Sir Philip Sidney has one of the heroes, Pyrocles, disguise himself as an Amazon called Zelmane in order to approach his beloved Philoclea.\n\nLord Byron in his \"Don Juan\", had Don Juan disguised as a woman in a harem.\n\nMark Twain's Huckleberry Finn disguises himself as a girl at one point in the novel, not very successfully.\n\nIn Anthony Powell's From a View to a Death, Major Fosdick's penchant for going to his room and donning a black sequin evening dress and a large picture-hat ultimately leads to his unraveling.\n\nIn Terry Pratchett's novel \"Monstrous Regiment\", he has an entire regiment of females (of assorted species) dressing as males to join the army, satirizing the phenomenon of crossdressing during wartime.\n\nIn Tolkien's \"The Lord of the Rings\", Éowyn disguises herself as man under the name Dernhelm to fight in the Battle of the Pelennor Fields outside the city Minas Tirith.\n\nIn Tamora Pierce's Song of the Lioness series, the main character, Alanna, disguises herself as a boy for eight years in order to become a knight.\n\nWilliam Shakespeare made substantial use of cross-dressing for female characters who took on masculine clothing to carry out actions difficult for women. In Shakespeare's play \"The Merchant of Venice\", Portia and her maid dress as men to plead in court on the merchant's behalf, and are quite successful in their ruse; in the same play, Shylock's daughter Jessica dresses as a man to elope with her Christian lover. \"Twelfth Night, or What You Will\" deals extensively with cross-dressing through the female protagonist Viola. She disguises herself as Cesario and immediately finds herself caught up in a love triangle. She loves Duke Orsino who loves Countess Olivia who loves Cesario. Luckily, all is resolved when Viola's presumed dead twin brother Sebastian comes along. We only see Viola as Viola in one scene; for the rest of the play she is dressed as Cesario. When Rosalind and Celia flee court in \"As You Like It\", Rosalind dresses, for their protection, as a man. However, as a way to further complicate the situation for comedic affect, Shakespeare has Rosalind's male character \"Ganymede\" dress as a woman to help a male friend, Orlando de Boys, practice wooing Rosalind, with whom he is smitten, while at the same time fending off the affections Phoebe has for \"Ganymede\". In other words, it is a man, (the actor), dressing as a woman, dressing as a man, dressing as a woman.\n\nJoe and Jerry in Billy Wilder's 1959 \"Some Like It Hot\", two struggling musicians, have to dress up as women to escape the ire of gangsters. The film is a remake by Wilder and I. A. L. Diamond of a 1935 French movie, \"Fanfare of Love\", from the story by Robert Thoeren and Michael Logan, which was itself remade in 1951 by German director Kurt Hoffmann as \"Fanfares of Love\".\n\nIn Blake Edwards's 1982 musical comedy film \"Victor Victoria\", Victoria Grant, a struggling soprano, is unable to find work but she finds success when she becomes \"Count Victor Grazinski\", a female impersonator. The film is a remake of \"Viktor und Viktoria\", a German film of 1933.\n\nDavid Henry Hwang's 1988 play \"M. Butterfly\" focuses on a love affair between a French diplomat and a male Beijing opera singer who plays \"dan\", or female, roles.\n\nAlthough there is some dispute as to whether the character is transgender or simply a cross-dresser, the character of Hedwig from the musical and subsequent movie \"Hedwig and the Angry Inch\" is another modern drag queen (the musical also features a male character played traditionally by a female actress, although the character's true gender is deliberately left with slight ambiguity).\n\nDr. Frank 'n' Furter in the \"Rocky Horror Picture Show\" wore nothing but women's clothing the entire movie/play.\n\nIn \"The Drew Carey Show\", Drew's brother, Steve Carey, is a cross-dresser.\n\nRobin Williams played a father who dressed as a nanny to be with his children in the 1993 comedy \"Mrs. Doubtfire\".\n\nDame Edna was an elderly drag queen with \"wisteria-colored hair\" who did international chat shows in the 1990s.\n\nBugs Bunny frequently cross-dresses in his cartoons for either comedic effect, or to confound a male opponent. Notable examples include \"Rabbit of Seville\", \"What's Opera Doc\" and \"Rabbit Seasoning\", all in attempts to deceive Elmer Fudd.\n\nBirdo from the \"Super Mario\" series is an interdeterminate, though highly suspected, cross-dressing male dinosaur.\n\nDoctor N. Gin from the \"Crash Bandicoot\" series wears a ballerina dancer outfit in \"Crash Tag Team Racing\". The tutu, obtained through one of Crash's missions, is an alternative costume that made N. Gin feel \"pretty\" and boosted his self-esteem.\n\nHim from the \"Powerpuff Girls\" series is shown every time, wearing a typical skirt, fishnet stockings, and high-heeled boots.\n\nIn the Disney film \"Mulan\", derived from a Chinese ballad-poem, the character Fa Mulan disguises herself as a man, to take her elderly father's place in the army.\n\nJessie and James from \"Pokémon\" cross-dress as ballet performers and wedding couples.\n\nIn the manga and anime \"Ouran High School Host Club\", the main character of Haruhi Fujioka cross-dresses as a boy so that she can work in a host club to pay off a debt she owes to the other members. Haruhi's father is also a cross-dresser.\n\nIn the manga and live action series of \"Hana-Kimi\" (Hanazakari no Kimitachi e), the main character, Mizuki Ashiya, cross-dresses as a boy to attend an all-boys boarding school to meet her idol, Izumi Sano.\n\nIn the manga and anime \"Shugo Chara\", Nagihiko Fujisaki cross-dresses as his \"twin\" Nadeshiko out of family tradition. He also crossdresses in his transformation \"Yamato Maihime.\"\n\nIn the manga and anime \"Mermaid Melody Pichi Pichi Pitch Pure\", one of Michel's servants, named Lady Bat, cross-dresses as a female, actually a male.\n\nIn the anime Himegoto, the main character, Hime Arikawa, cross-dresses to join the Student Council who promises to pay off the debt created by Hime's parents. There are also four other characters who cross dress, including Hime's brother, Kaguya, HIro Toyotomi, No. 1, and Mitsunaga Oda, all of whom are against the Student Council.\n\nIn Renaissance England it was illegal for women to perform in theatres, so female roles in the plays of Shakespeare and his contemporary playwrights were originally played by cross-dressing men or boys. (See also \"Stage Beauty\".) Therefore, the original productions of the above-mentioned Shakespeare plays actually involved double-cross-dressing: male actors playing female characters disguising themselves as males. Academic research into the contemporary attitudes towards the practise have yielded a variety of interpretations. Laura Levine argues that \"an all-male acting troupe was the natural and unremarkable product of a culture whose conception of gender was \"teleologically male\"\"; she also suggests that contemporary protests against the practise (believing it made young actors \"effeminate\") reflected \"deepseated fears that the self was not stable and fixed but unstable and monstrous and infinitely malleable unless strictly controlled.\n\nCross-dressed female actors are referred to as playing \"trouser roles,\" a historical example of an actress famous for trouser roles is Julie d'Aubigny, aka \"La Maupin\" (1670–1707).\n\nIn the late 19th century, one of the most famous actresses was the cross-dressing woman Vesta Tilley. She grew up working in a music hall from age 5 well into her fifties. In the late 1890s, she was the highest paid woman in Britain. What made her so famous was her tendency to dress as a man and act out \"masculine\" scenes and roles.\n\nIn \"Clue: The Musical\", Mrs. White is usually played by a man.\n\nIn all versions of \"Hairspray\"—the original film, the stage musical, and the film adapted from the musical—Edna Turnblad is played by a man.\n\nOn some plays and films by Tyler Perry, he dresses up as a woman to play as Madea.\n\nAll roles in Japanese Noh dramas are traditionally played by male actors. Actors playing female roles wear feminine costumes and female-featured masks.\n\nJapanese Kabuki theatre began in the 17th century with all-female troupes performing both male and female roles. In 1629 the disrepute of kabuki performances (or of their audiences) led to the banning of women from the stage, but kabuki's great popularity inspired the formation of all-male troupes to carry on the theatrical form. In Kabuki, the portrayal of female characters by men is known as onnagata. The practice is detailed in a story of the same name by the Japanese writer, Yukio Mishima.\n\nIn ancient China, nearly all the characters in Chinese Opera were performed by men, so that all the male actors, who played the role of a female were crossdressing. A famous cross-dressing opera singer is Mei Lanfang. From early 20th century, Shanghai yue opera (or Shaoxin opera) is developed from all male to all female genre. Although male performers were introduced into this opera in 1950s and 1960s, today, Shanghai yueju (yue opera) is still associated as the only all female opera and the second most popular opera in China.\n\nMeryl Streep played a male rabbi in an episode of \"Angels in America\".\nThe Monty Python troupe have been known to cross dress for comedic purposes in their TV series and films. The troupe usually dress up as older, more unarousing women referred to by the troupe as \"pepperpots\". Although member Terry Jones was most famous for his female characters, all the members have been seen in drag in one sketch or another; members Michael Palin and Eric Idle have been said to look the most feminine, Graham Chapman specialized in screeching, annoying housewives and John Cleese, whom the troupe has said is the most hilarious in drag, appears so extremely unfeminine, with his square chin and six-foot, five-inch frame that it is funny. Cleese also wore female clothes while appearing as \"himself\" in a magazine advertisement for American Express. For more information about cross-dressing in movies and television, see the article \"Cross-dressing in film and television\". \"Monty Python's Flying Circus\" also did a sketch called \"The Lumberjack Song,\" about a lumberjack who likes to \"put on women's clothing and hang around in bars.\"\n\nThe Kids in the Hall comedy troupe often dress up as female characters. In contrast to Monty Python who dressed as women in an exaggerated fashion for comedic purposes, The Kids in the Hall usually played women straight, their reasoning for cross-dressing being that there are few if any women involved in their projects. This has gone on to be one of the group's defining characteristics.\n\nMatt Lucas and David Walliams regularly cross-dress in the \"Little Britain\" television comedy show, with Lucas in particular often somewhat more feminine and convincing in his appearance and performances than cross-dressing comedians of the past. The two also sometimes play a pair of unconvincing transvestites as a parody of some cross-dressers who try to act in a stereotypically feminine way while not succeeding in \"passing\" as women.\n\nThe British writer, presenter and actor Richard O'Brien sometimes cross-dresses and ran a \"Transfandango\" ball aimed at transgender people of all kinds in aid of charity for several years in the early 2000s (decade).\nThe Takarazuka Revue is a contemporary all-female Japanese acting company, known for their elaborate productions of stage musicals. Takarazuka actresses specialize in either male or female roles, with male role actresses receiving top billing.\n\nIn pantomime plays that are traditionally adaptations of fairy tales and performed around Christmastide, the role of lead male was once commonly played by a principal boy—a young, attractive, female. This practise has fallen out of favour recently, with popular male television and pop stars taking these roles. Conversely, the role of a pantomime dame, a middle aged woman played by a man for comic relief, is still one of the mainstays of the Pantomime.\n\nMichelle Ehlen plays a butch lesbian actress who gets cast as a man in a film in the comedic feature \"Butch Jamie\".\n\nEddie Izzard, a British stand-up comedian and actor, states that he has cross-dressed his entire life. He often performs his act in feminine clothing, and has discussed his cross dressing as part of his act. He calls himself an \"executive transvestite\".\n\nClassic trouser parts (male characters intended to be played by women) include the title character in \"Peter Pan\" (J.M. Barrie) and Cherubino in \"The Marriage of Figaro\" (Beaumarchais).\n\nIn the 1992 Kannada movie \"Bombat Hendthi\", a well-known male actor and dancer named Sridar crossdresses. His character and the character's friends want to rent a house, but the owners are not willing to rent to bachelors. So Sridhar crossdresses to become his friend's wife, while the rest of the actors (Sihi-kahi Chandru, Tennis Krishna, Ramesh Bhatt, Malashri and Anjali) are in supporting roles.\n\nAn entire cross-dressing genre of operatic roles, called \"pants roles\", \"trouser roles\", or \"travesty roles\". These are male roles performed by women, typically mezzo-sopranos but occasionally by sopranos. Some female opera singers specialize in these types of roles.\n\nA major artistic reason for \"pants roles\" was that some storylines required young boy characters, but the actual performance required an adult's vocal strength and stage experience in addition to a high, boyish voice. Women were thus better suited to these boy roles than actual boys. Some examples of these boyish pants roles are Cherubino in \"The Marriage of Figaro,\" Siebel in \"Faust,\" and Hansel in \"Hansel and Gretel\". Other pants roles were created due to the need for an adult male character to seem other-worldly (Orpheus in \"Orfeo ed Euridice\") or unmanly (Prince Idamante in \"Idomeneo\"). In some cases, the casting of a woman in a \"pants role\" may have been just an excuse to have an attractive actress appear in tight-fitting trousers. During the Grand Opera era, women typically worn voluminous dresses onstage. Some male operatic roles originally written to be sung in the voice range of castrati (men castrated in boyhood, whose voices never descended into the normal male register) are now usually cast with female singers in male costume.\n\nBeethovens' only opera, \"Fidelio\", is unusual in that it features a female character who cross-dresses as part of the plot. \"Fidelio\" involves a woman who disguises herself as a young man as part of a plan to rescue her husband from prison. In \"The Marriage of Figaro\" Cherubino dresses as a girl to avoid army duty. The part of Cherubino is thus played by a woman, who plays a man who dresses as a woman.\n\nIn the early 20th century, German composer Richard Strauss included a major trouser role in two operas: the Composer in \"Ariadne auf Naxos\" and Octavian in \"Der Rosenkavalier.\"\n\n\nAs the Hundred Years' War developed in the late Middle Ages, cross dressing in France was a way for women to join the cause against England.\n\nIn the seventeenth century, France underwent a period where there was a financially driven social conflict in what has been named the Fronde. Throughout the duration of the Fronde, French women often utilized cross dressing to enlist in the army as a male soldier to join the opposition with their male family members against the parliament and its affiliates. Cross dressing also became a more common strategy for women to conceal their gender as they traveled, granting a safer and more efficient route. The practice of cross dressing was present more so in literary works than in real life situations despite its effective concealing properties.\n\nIn England, during the medieval times, Cross dressing was used as a way to practice theater. Cross-dressing was used was by men and young boys dressing and playing both roles of male and female. During early modern London, religious authorities were against cross-dressing in theater due to it disregarding social conduct and causing gender confusion. Later, during the eighteenth century in London, crossdressing became a part of the club culture. Crossdressing took a part in men’s only clubs where men would meet at these clubs dressed as women and drink. One of the most well known clubs for men to do this was known as the Molly Club or Molly House.\n\nJapan has a centuries-old tradition of male \"kabuki\" theatre actors cross-dressing onstage. Transgender men (and more rarely, women) were also \"conspicuous\" in Tokyo's \"gei\" (gay) bar and club subculture in the pre- and post-World War II period. By the 1950s, publications concerning MTF cross-dressing were in circulation, advertising themselves as aimed at the \"study\" of the phenomenon. Fully-fledged \"commercial\" magazines aimed at cross-dressing 'hobbyists' began publishing after the launch of the first such magazine, \"Queen\", in 1980. It was affiliated with the Elizabeth Club, which opened branch clubs in several Tokyo suburbs and other cities.\n\nThrough the pre-modern age, cross-dressing and transgender appearance in Thailand was apparent in many contexts including same-sex theater performance. The term Kathoey came to describe anyone from cross-dressers to transgender men (and women) as the practice became more prevalent in everyday life. Lack of colonization by Western civilizations in Thailand have led to different ways of thinking about gender and self-identity. In turn, Thailand has fostered one of the most open and tolerant traditions towards \"Kathoeys\" and cross-dressers in the world. In contrast to many Western civilizations, where homosexuality and cross-dressing have been historically criminal offenses, Thai legal codes have not explicitly criminalized these behaviors. It was not until the 20th century that a public majority, whether on stage or in public, came to assume cross-dressing a sign of transgenderism and homosexuality.\n\nSince the Yuan dynasty, cross-dressing has had a unique significance in Chinese opera. Period scholars cite it as the time in Chinese theatre as the “golden age.”\n\nThe British writer and doctor Vernon Coleman cross-dresses and has written several articles defending men who cross-dress, stressing they are often heterosexual and usually do not want to change sex.\n\nBritish artist and Turner Prize winner, Grayson Perry often appears as his alter-ego, Clare.\n\n"}
{"id": "13372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13372", "title": "Human geography", "text": "Human geography\n\nHuman geography is the branch of geography that deals with the study of people and their communities,\ncultures, economies, and interactions with the environment by studying their relations with and across space and place. Human geography attends to human patterns of social interaction, as well as spatial level interdependencies, and how they influence or affect the earth's environment. As an intellectual discipline, geography is divided into the sub-fields of physical geography and human geography, the latter concentrating upon the study of human activities, by the application of qualitative and quantitative research methods.\n\nGeography was not recognized as a formal academic discipline until the 18th century, although many scholars had undertaken geographical scholarship for much longer, particularly through cartography.\n\nThe Royal Geographical Society was founded in England in 1830, although the United Kingdom did not get its first full Chair of geography until 1917. The first real geographical intellect to emerge in United Kingdom's geographical minds was Halford John Mackinder, appointed reader at Oxford University in 1887.\n\nThe National Geographic Society was founded in the United States in 1888 and began publication of the \"National Geographic\" magazine which became, and continues to be, a great popularizer of geographic information. The society has long supported geographic research and education on geographical topics.\n\nThe Association of American Geographers was founded in 1904 and was renamed the American Association of Geographers in 2016 to better reflect the increasingly international character of its membership.\n\nOne of the first examples of geographic methods being used for purposes other than to describe and theorize the physical properties of the earth is John Snow's map of the 1854 Broad Street cholera outbreak. Though Snow was primarily a physician and a pioneer of epidemiology rather than a geographer, his map is probably one of the earliest examples of health geography.\n\nThe now fairly distinct differences between the subfields of physical and human geography have developed at a later date. This connection between both physical and human properties of geography is most apparent in the theory of environmental determinism, made popular in the 19th century by Carl Ritter and others, and has close links to the field of evolutionary biology of the time. Environmental determinism is the theory, that people's physical, mental and moral habits are directly due to the influence of their natural environment. However, by the mid-19th century, environmental determinism was under attack for lacking methodological rigor associated with modern science, and later as a means to justify racism and imperialism.\n\nA similar concern with both human and physical aspects is apparent during the later 19th and first half of the 20th centuries focused on regional geography.The goal of regional geography, through something known as regionalisation, was to delineate space into regions and then understand and describe the unique characteristics of each region through both human and physical aspects. With links to (possibilism) (geography) and cultural ecology some of the same notions of causal effect of the environment on society and culture remain with environmental determinism.\n\nBy the 1960s, however, the quantitative revolution led to strong criticism of regional geography. Due to a perceived lack of scientific rigor in an overly descriptive nature of the discipline, and a continued separation of geography from its two subfields of physical and human geography and from geology, geographers in the mid-20th century began to apply statistical and mathematical models in order to solve spatial problems. Much of the development during the quantitative revolution is now apparent in the use of geographic information systems; the use of statistics, spatial modeling, and positivist approaches are still important to many branches of human geography. Well-known geographers from this period are Fred K. Schaefer, Waldo Tobler, William Garrison, Peter Haggett, Richard J. Chorley, William Bunge, and Torsten Hägerstrand.\n\nFrom the 1970s, a number of critiques of the positivism now associated with geography emerged. Known under the term 'critical geography,' these critiques signaled another turning point in the discipline. Behavioral geography emerged for some time as a means to understand how people made perceived spaces and places, and made locational decisions. The more influential 'radical geography' emerged in the 1970s and 1980s. It draws heavily on Marxist's theory and techniques, and is associated with geographers such as David Harvey and Richard Peet. Radical geographers seek to say meaningful things about problems recognized through quantitative methods, provide explanations rather than descriptions, put forward alternatives and solutions, and be politically engaged, rather than using the detachment associated with positivists. (The detachment and objectivity of the quantitative revolution was itself critiqued by radical geographers as being a tool of capital). Radical geography and the links to Marxism and related theories remain an important part of contemporary human geography (See: \"Antipode\"). Critical geography also saw the introduction of 'humanistic geography', associated with the work of Yi-Fu Tuan, which pushed for a much more qualitative approach in methodology.\n\nThe changes under critical geography have led to contemporary approaches in the discipline such as feminist geography, new cultural geography, \"demonic\" geographies, and the engagement with postmodern and post-structural theories and philosophies.\n\nThe primary fields of study in human geography focus around the core fields of:\n\nCultural geography is the study of cultural products and norms - their variation across spaces and places, as well as their relations. It focuses on describing and analyzing the ways language, religion, economy, government, and other cultural phenomena vary or remain constant from one place to another and on explaining how humans function spatially. \n\nDevelopment geography is the study of the Earth's geography with reference to the standard of living and the quality of life of its human inhabitants, study of the location, distribution and spatial organization of economic activities, across the Earth. The subject matter investigated is strongly influenced by the researcher's methodological approach.\n\nEconomic geography examines relationships between human economic systems, states, and other factors, and the biophysical environment.\n\nHealth geography is the application of geographical information, perspectives, and methods to the study of health, disease, and health care. Health geography deals with the spatial relations and patterns between people and the environment. This is a sub-discipline of human geography, researching how and why diseases are spread.\n\nHistorical geography is the study of the human, physical, fictional, theoretical, and \"real\" geographies of the past. Historical geography studies a wide variety of issues and topics. A common theme is the study of the geographies of the past and how a place or region changes through time. Many historical geographers study geographical patterns through time, including how people have interacted with their environment, and created the cultural landscape.\n\nPolitical geography is concerned with the study of both the spatially uneven outcomes of political processes and the ways in which political processes are themselves affected by spatial structures.\n\nPopulation geography is the study of ways in which spatial variations in the distribution, composition, migration, and growth of populations are related to their environment or location.\n\nSettlement geography, including urban geography, is the study of urban and rural areas with specific regards to spatial, relational and theoretical aspects of settlement. That is the study of areas which have a concentration of buildings and infrastructure. These are areas where the majority of economic activities are in the secondary sector and tertiary sectors. In case of urban settlement, they probably have a high population density.\nUrban geography is the study of cities, towns, and other areas of relatively dense settlement. Two main interests are site (how a settlement is positioned relative to the physical environment) and situation (how a settlement is positioned relative to other settlements). Another area of interest is the internal organization of urban areas with regard to different demographic groups and the layout of infrastructure. This subdiscipline also draws on ideas from other branches of Human Geography to see their involvement in the processes and patterns evident in an urban area.\n\nWithin each of the subfields, various philosophical approaches can be used in research; therefore, an urban geographer could be a Feminist or Marxist geographer, etc.\n\nSuch approaches are:\n\n\nAs with all social sciences, human geographers publish research and other written work in a variety of academic journals. Whilst human geography is interdisciplinary, there are a number of journals that focus on human geography.\n\nThese include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23120021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23120021", "title": "Japan–British Society", "text": "Japan–British Society\n\nThe Japan–British Society (or ) was founded in 1908 \"to encourage the study of things British and to promote cordial relations between the peoples of Great Britain and Japan.\" It is the oldest bilateral organization in Japan, promoting international cooperation and exchanges.\n\nThe society was founded in 1908, six years after Japan and the United Kingdom formed the Anglo-Japanese Alliance, which at first was a purely military arrangement. Japanese Government Officials established the society after recognising the need for mutual understanding of the two countries' societies and cultures.\n\nThe Japan–British Society and the Japan Society's Japan branch (which is no longer extant) appear to have had their roots in a group known as \"the Old Country Club\" for Japanese who had previously lived in England.\n\nOn 20 October 1908, a meeting was held at the Peer's Club in Tokyo to discuss the formation in Tokyo of a society to equal the Japan Society of London. Viscount Hayashi was elected as chairman, and the British Ambassador was elected as its first president. The Ambassador proposed that the society be named \"The Japanese and British Society\", however those present chose the shorter \"The British Society\" instead.\nOn 27 November 1908, \"The British Society\" held its inaugural meeting at the Imperial Hotel in Tokyo, and at some point after 1910, changed its name to \"The Japan-British Society\".\n\nOn 13 March 1935, Mr. Charles Sale of the Japan Society used the inauguration of a telephone service between Japan and the United Kingdom to send the Japan Society's greetings to the officers and council of the Japan–British Society in Tokyo, and to their patron Prince Chichibu.\n\nDuring the Second World War, the society's activities were halted, and air raids destroyed much of their records. The society resumed its activities upon the conclusion of the Treaty of San Francisco in 1951.\n\nLarge-scale festivals of Japanese culture were held in the U.K. in 1981 and 1991. In 1998, a reciprocal event, the UK98 festival, was held with the cooperation of the association to introduce British culture to Japan.\n\nThe Society supported the Japan 2001 festival, which featured a series of events to introduce traditional and contemporary Japanese culture throughout Britain. The event's joint patrons were the Prince of Wales and the Crown Prince of Japan. In addition, the society began compiling a history of the organization in preparation for its centenary in 2008.\n\nIn November, 2000, the society was reformed and established as a .\n\nThis body has over 2000 members and is supported by more than 120 corporate members. Membership of the Society is open to anyone with an interest in the cause of Japan-United Kingdom relations, and on the recommendation of a member of the Society or upon attending a membership interview.\n\nPrince Fushimi Sadanaru became the first Royal Patron of the Society in 1910, after taking an active role in Anglo-Japanese relations. He travelled to the UK in May, 1907, to give Emperor Meiji's thanks to King Edward VII for bestowing The Most Noble Order of the Garter upon him. He was sent to England again after Russo-Japanese War in 1909, on a mission of thanks from the Japanese government for British advice and assistance during the war, and the Prince also represented Japan at the state funeral of King Edward VII on May 20, 1910, and met with the new King George V at Buckingham Palace.\n\nLater, Prince and Princess Chichibu were Honorary Patrons. Prince Chichibu was the second son of Emperor Taishō and noted for his efforts to promote international relations. His promotion of rugby in Japan is remembered at the Chichibunomiya Rugby Stadium (Prince Chichibu Memorial Rugby Ground) in Aoyama. After his death, Princess Chichibu, eldest daughter of Ambassador Tsuneo Matsudaira, accepted the honorary patronage. She was active in Anglo-Japanese relations, visiting the UK in 1962 (in reciprocation for the first post-war visit by a member of the UK Royal family, Princess Alexandra of Kent, the previous year), and again in 1967, for the 75th anniversary of the Japan Society. Every year, the society holds the Princess Chichibu Memorial Lecture.\n\nThe Society provides a forum within which members of both nationalities meet for social and cultural exchanges on an informal and friendly basis. The Society's regular events are an Annual Dinner, a Gala Party, the Princess Chichibu Memorial Lecture and the Annual Golf Tournament for the Princess Chichibu Trophy. The society also holds many other events such as wine or sake tasting, trips to sporting events and theatrical performances, cultural lessons (such as English cookery), Business Forum meetings, and lectures.\n\nThe society's Junior Group arranges social events to appeal to younger members, including the annual Christmas party, the \"Mochitsuki\" (rice pounding), \"Shinnenkai\" (New Year's party), pub nights, film viewings, barbecues, and cherry blossom viewing at the British Embassy.\n\nThe society has supported a number of exchange programs and offers opportunities for British and Japanese members to become acquainted with each other, including seasonal events and lectures. In the educational sphere, the society has supported English language study programs in Britain.\n\nThe Japan–British Society was founded in Tokyo in 1908 and gradually spread to many regional areas. As of August, 2009, there are 19 independent, regional Japan-British Societies outside Tokyo: Aichi, Aomori, Asahikawa, Ehime, Fukui, Fukuoka, Hakodate, Hiroshima, Hokkaido, Ishikawa, Iwate, Kagoshima, Kansai, Kumamoto, Miyazaki, Nagasaki, Shizuoka, Tohoku, Yamaguchi.\n\nThe society publishes monthly notices (including information about society events, related events, and book reviews) and an annual report.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13882552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13882552", "title": "Johns Hopkins Beast", "text": "Johns Hopkins Beast\n\nThe Johns Hopkins Beast was a mobile automaton, an early pre-robot, built in the 1960s at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory. The machine had a rudimentary intelligence and the ability to survive on its own. As it wandered through the white halls of the laboratory, it would seek black wall outlets. When it found one it would plug in and recharge.\n\nThe robot was cybernetic. It did not use a computer. Its control circuitry consisted of dozens of transistors controlling analog voltages. It used photocell optics and sonar to navigate. The 2N404 transistors were used to create NOR logic gates that implemented the Boolean logic to tell it what to do when a specific sensor was activated. The 2N404 transistors were also used to create timing gates to tell it how long to do something. 2N1040 Power transistors were used to control the power to the motion treads, the boom, and the charging mechanism.\n\nThe original sensors in Mod I were physical touch only. The wall socket was detected by physical switches on the arm that followed the wall. Once detected, two electrical prongs were extended until they entered the wall socket and made the electrical connection to charge the vehicle. The stairway, doors, and pipes on the hall wall were also detected by physical switches and recognized by appropriate logic.\n\nThe sonar guidance system was developed for Mod I and improved for Mod II. It used two ultrasonic transducers to determine distance, location within the halls, and obstructions in its path. This provided \"The Beast\" with bat-like guidance. At this point, it could detect obstructions in the hallway, such as people in the hallway. Once an obstruction was detected, the Beast would slow down and then decide whether to stop or divert around the obstruction. It could also ultrasonically recognize the stairway and doorways to take appropriate action.\n\nAn optical guidance system was added to Mod II. This provided, among other capabilities, the ability to optically identify the black wall sockets that contrasted with the white wall.\n\nThe Hopkins Beast Autonomous Robot Mod II link below was written by Dr. Ronald McConnell, at that time a co-op student and one of the designers for Mod II. Many additional references can be found at this link.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "574823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=574823", "title": "Legitimacy (political)", "text": "Legitimacy (political)\n\nIn political science, legitimacy is the right and acceptance of an authority, usually a governing law or a régime. Whereas \"authority\" denotes a specific position in an established government, the term \"legitimacy\" denotes a \"system\" of government—wherein \n\"government\" denotes \"sphere of influence\". An authority viewed as legitimate often has the right and justification to exercise power. Political legitimacy is considered a basic condition for governing, without which a government will suffer legislative deadlock(s) and collapse. In political systems where this is not the case, unpopular régimes survive because they are considered legitimate by a small, influential élite. In Chinese political philosophy, since the historical period of the Zhou Dynasty (1046–256 BC), the political legitimacy of a ruler and government was derived from the Mandate of Heaven, and unjust rulers who lost said mandate therefore lost the right to rule the people.\n\nIn moral philosophy, the term \"legitimacy\" is often positively interpreted as the normative status conferred by a governed people upon their governors' institutions, offices, and actions, based upon the belief that their government's actions are appropriate uses of power by a legally constituted government.\n\nThe Enlightenment-era British social philosopher John Locke (1632–1704) said that political legitimacy derives from popular explicit and implicit consent of the governed: \"The argument of the [\"Second\"] \"Treatise\" is that the government is not legitimate unless it is carried on with the consent of the governed.\" The German political philosopher Dolf Sternberger said that \"[l]egitimacy is the foundation of such governmental power as is exercised, both with a consciousness on the government's part that it has a right to govern, and with some recognition by the governed of that right\". The American political sociologist Seymour Martin Lipset said that legitimacy also \"involves the capacity of a political system to engender and maintain the belief that existing political institutions are the most appropriate and proper ones for the society\". The American political scientist Robert A. Dahl explained legitimacy as a reservoir: so long as the water is at a given level, political stability is maintained, if it falls below the required level, political legitimacy is endangered.\n\nLegitimacy is \"a value whereby something or someone is recognized and accepted as right and proper\". In political science, legitimacy usually is understood as the popular acceptance and recognition by the public of the authority of a governing régime, whereby authority has political power through consent and mutual understandings, not coercion. The three types of political legitimacy described by German sociologist Max Weber are traditional, charismatic, and rational-legal:\n\n\nIn a theocracy, government legitimacy derives from the spiritual authority of a god or a goddess.\n\n\n\nThe political legitimacy of a civil government derives from agreement among the autonomous constituent institutions—legislative, judicial, executive—combined for the national common good. One way civil society grants legitimacy to governments is through public elections. There are also those who refute the legitimacy offered by public elections, pointing out that the amount of legitimacy public elections can grant depends significantly on the electoral system conducting the elections. In the United States this issue has surfaced around how voting is impacted by gerrymandering and the repeal of part of the Voting Rights Act in 2013. Another challenge to the political legitimacy offered by elections is whether or not marginalized groups such as women or those who are incarcerated are allowed to vote. \n\nCivil legitimacy can be granted through different measures for accountability than voting, such as financial transparency and stake-holder accountability. In the international system another method for measuring civil legitimacy is through accountability to international human rights norms. \n\nIn an effort determine what makes a government legitimate the Center for Public Impact launched a project to hold a global conversation about legitimacy stating, inviting citizens, academics and governments to participate. The organization also publishes case studies that consider the theme of legitimacy as it applies to projects in a number of different countries including Bristol, Lebanon and Canada.\n\nThe United Nations Human Rights Office of the High Commission (OHCHR) established standards of what is considered \"good governance\" that include the key attributes transparency, responsibility, accountability, participation and responsiveness (to the needs of the people).\n\nAssessing the political legitimacy of a government can be done by looking at three different aspects of which a government can derive legitimacy. Fritz Scharpf introduced two normative criteria, which are output legitimacy, i.e. the effectiveness of policy outcomes for people and input legitimacy, the responsiveness to citizen concerns as a result of participation by the people. A third normative criterion was added by Vivien Schmidt, who analyzes legitimacy also in terms of what she calls throughput, i.e. the governance processes that happen in between input and output.\n\nAbulof distinguishes between negative political legitimacy (NPL), which is about the object of legitimation (answering \"what\" is legitimate), and positive political legitimacy (PPL), which is about the source of legitimation (answering \"who\" is the 'legitimator'). NPL is concerned with establishing where to draw the line between good and bad, PPL with who should be drawing it in the first place. From the NPL perspective, political legitimacy emanates from appropriate actions; from a PPL perspective, it emanates from appropriate actors. In the social contract tradition, Hobbes and Locke focused on NPL (stressing security and liberty, respectively), while Rousseau focused more on PPL (\"the people\" as the legitimator). Arguably, political stability depends on both forms of legitimacy.\n\nWeber's understanding of legitimacy rests on shared \"values\", such as tradition and rational-legality. But policies that aim at (re-)constructing legitimacy by improving the service delivery or 'output' of a state often only respond to shared \"needs\". Therefore, substantive sources of legitimacy need to be distinguished from more instrumental ones. \"Instrumental legitimacy\" rests on \"the rational assessment of the usefulness of an authority ..., describing to what extent an authority responds to shared needs. Instrumental legitimacy is very much based on the perceived effectiveness of service delivery. Conversely, \"substantive legitimacy\" is a more abstract normative judgment, which is underpinned by shared values. If a person believes that an entity has the right to exercise social control, he or she may also accept personal disadvantages.\"\n\nMax Weber proposed that societies behave cyclically in governing themselves with different types of governmental legitimacy. That democracy was unnecessary for establishing legitimacy, a condition that can be established with codified laws, customs, and cultural principles, not by means of popular suffrage. That a society might decide to revert from the legitimate government of a rational–legal authority to the charismatic government of a leader; e.g., the Nazi Germany of Adolf Hitler, Fascist Italy under Benito Mussolini, and Francoist Spain under General Francisco Franco.\nThe French political scientist Mattei Dogan's contemporary interpretation of Weber's types of political legitimacy (traditional, charismatic, legal-rational) proposes that they are conceptually insufficient to comprehend the complex relationships that constitute a legitimate political system in the twenty-first century. Moreover, Dogan proposed that traditional authority and charismatic authority are obsolete as forms of contemporary government (e.g., the Islamic Republic of Iran (est. 1979) rule by means of the priestly Koranic interpretations by the Ayatollah Khomeini). That traditional authority has disappeared in the Middle East; that the rule-proving exceptions are Islamic Iran and Saudi Arabia. Furthermore, the third Weber type of political legitimacy, rational-legal authority, exists in so many permutations no longer allow it to be limited as a type of legitimate authority.\n\nIn determining the political legitimacy of a system of rule and government, the term proper—\"political legitimacy\"—is philosophically an essentially contested concept that facilitates understanding the different applications and interpretations of abstract, qualitative, and evaluative concepts such as \"art\", \"social justice\", et cetera, as applied in aesthetics, political philosophy, the philosophy of history, and the philosophy of religion. Therefore, in defining the political legitimacy of a system of government and rule, the term \"essentially contested concept\" indicates that a key term (communism, democracy, constitutionalism, etc.) has different meanings within a given political argument. Hence, the intellectually restrictive politics of dogmatism (\"My answer is right, and all others are wrong\"), scepticism (\"All answers are equally true or [false]; everyone has a right to his own truth\"), and eclecticism (\"Each meaning gives a partial view, so the more meanings the better\") are inappropriate philosophic stances for managing a political term that has more than one meaning. (see: Walter Bryce Gallie)\n\nEstablishing what qualifies as a legitimate form of government continues to be a topic of great philosophical controversy. Forms of legitimate government are posited to include:\n"}
{"id": "198017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198017", "title": "List of museum ships", "text": "List of museum ships\n\nThis list of museum ships is a comprehensive, sortable, annotated list of notable museum ships around the world. Replica ships are listed separately in the article on ship replicas. Ships that are not museum ships, but are still actively used for excursions are included in the list of classic vessels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14051426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14051426", "title": "Monster Café", "text": "Monster Café\n\nMonster Café is a Children's BBC comedy programme about three monsters working in Monster Café, where they meet weird monsters, serve weird food and battle with their evil boss, the Baroness. The series originally aired from 1994–1995.\n\nThe series was repeated on CBBC On Choice between 2000 and 2001, CBBC in 2002, then on BBC Two in May 2005, and again on CBeebies in November 2007, but after complaints on BBC Message Boards and direct to the BBC regarding how the programme \"scared young children\", it was pulled from the schedule.\n\nFrankie played by Isobel Middleton\n\nFrankie is a female robot who works at the café. She is the smartest of the trio and uses many of the gadgets on her body to help out with problems and to fight the Baroness sometimes.\n\nIgor played by David Shimwell\n\nIgor is a 1-trillion-millenniums-old Transylvanian man who has very poor hygiene (but claims it's an old Transylvanian custom). He also works at the café and loves making potions and other weird concoctions. He also has a pet dustbin called Vinny. Igor also has a short temper, when he gets angry he has a 'Monster Bubbly' where he breathes fire and throws saucepans and custard pies (which always hit Skull) at other monsters.\n\nMummy played by Toby Sedgwick\n\nMummy is a 6000-year-old Egyptian mummy who works at the café. He is very dim-witted and often gets stuff wrong. He also pronounces his Ms as Rs (So he called himself Rummy). Mummy sleeps in a coffin.\n\nBaroness de Monstro played by Peta Lily\n\nThe Baroness is the bossy and bad-tempered manager of the Monster Café. She also hates the monsters having any kind of fun and meals being given away for free. She also created Frankie to help work in the café.\n\nVinny the Bin\n\nIgor's pet dustbin, who acts very much like a dog and will eat anything.\n\nSkull played by Simon Davies\n\nA talking skull who lives in the Monster Café. He always tells incredibly bad jokes and is often mistreated, by being turned into a cabbage by the Baroness or having a custard pie thrown at him by Igor.\n\nChas played by Richard Ashton\n\nMonster Café's best and favourite customer. Chas loves eating slugs and talks with a very strong Birmingham accent.\n\nMarcel McCalla narrates the show.\n"}
{"id": "58694756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58694756", "title": "Mulquinerie", "text": "Mulquinerie\n\nMulquinerie, a landmark of French sartorial heritage and high craftsmanship, is the art of weaving and trading fine fabrics composed exclusively of linen: whether plain flax cloth, 'linon' or batiste. A 'mulquinier' was the artisan textile designer and weaver as well as the merchant of canvases. The mulquiniers were not only a subcategorization of the tisserand(e) artists but were also the traders of their own craft. This activity was predominantly developed within villages as a substantial rural proto-industry, hence mulquiniers working on métiers à tisser in their home' basement while breathing from \"bahottes\" or \"blocures\" to obtain the most propitious humidity levels.\n\nMulquinerie originated in the 17th and 18th centuries from metropolitan France’s Northern Departments now constituting the Hauts-de-France region , following the territorial reform of French Regions (2014) from a merger of Nord-Pas-de-Calais and Picardy. The activity was ubiquitous in the towns of the former Nord-Pas de Calais Mining Basin, the Cambrésis sub-province or the Thiérache including Saint-Vaast-en-Cambrésis, Saint-Hilaire-lez-Cambrai, Haspres, Saint-Quentin or Neuvilly. This also included Caudry, the medieval capital city of French Lace which remains (in collaboration with Calais) the only town in France where lace is still made.\n\nEtymologically, ‘mulquinier’ is derived from the Germanic term \"mollquin\" meaning 'thin canvas'. First traces of the term are encountered in the 'Charter of the mulquiniers of Valenciennes' in 1413 through the use of the term 'molekinier'. Among the oldest mulquinerie ancestries are the 'Lecygne' and 'Legueil' families tracing back beyond the XVII century being fabric dyers, textile artists, embroiderers, patternmakers or hand-spinners.\nThe French mulquiniers' patron was Saint Veronica of Jerusalem whose representations they celebrated biannually (summer and winter) as in many pious Christian countries.\n\n\n__NOEDITSECTION__\n"}
{"id": "22786227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22786227", "title": "Pendejo Cave", "text": "Pendejo Cave\n\nPendejo Cave is a geological feature and archaeological site located in southern New Mexico about 20 miles east of Orogrande. Archaeologist Richard S. MacNeish claimed that human occupation of the cave pre-dates by tens of thousands of years the Clovis Culture, traditionally believed to be one of the oldest if not the oldest culture in the Americas.\n\nPendejo is a relatively small cave, only 5 meters wide, 12 meters deep, and having a maximum height of 3 meters. It is below the rim of an escarpment, facing north, and about above the canyon floor. The cave is located at an elevation of amidst the sparse desert vegetation of the Chihuahua Desert. A slightly more mesic habitat is found at the foot of the cliffs.\n\nPendejo is a Spanish word and literally means \"a pubic hair\", but in Mexico it can also be a vulgar insult.\n\nPendejo Cave was discovered in 1978, and twelve years later, in early 1990, the first archaeological expedition headed by MacNeish excavated the site. Another excavation occurred one year later, in late winter and early spring of 1991. Clovis (c. 11,000 BCE) tools were found in the cave, along with tools from later Native societies. Unifacial shavers, utilized flakes, and other artifacts were uncovered and attributed to various eras, along with several examples of worked bone, including a bone awl made from the scapula of a horse, and a knife made from a rib bone.\n\nMacNeish claimed to have found even earlier Native American artifacts in the cave. A total of 111 chipped tools was found throughout the formation in three complexes. He estimated the oldest may date back as far as 75,000 years.\n\nThe early dating of the discoveries at Pendejo Cave has generally been discounted by other archaeologists. Faunal remains in the cave had been dated to possibly as old as 55,000 years, but the manufacture and dating of the chipped stones and other alleged artifacts of human origin is disputed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50515207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50515207", "title": "Philosophical poets", "text": "Philosophical poets\n\nA philosophical poet is an author or scholar who employs poetic devices, styles, or forms to explore subjects common to the field of philosophy. Their writing often addresses questions related to the meaning of life, the nature of being (ontology), theories of knowledge and knowing (epistemology), principles of beauty (aesthetics), first principles of things (metaphysics) or the existence of God. Some may make broad philosophical inquires and engage with diverse philosophical topics throughout their poetry, while others may concentrate within one branch of philosophical poetry. For example, Dante is considered by some to be both a philosophical poet, in a general sense, as well as a metaphysical poet.\n\nAlthough a group discussion may provide fruitful conditions for some to explore philosophical themes, poetry may be seen an alternative entry into philosophical thinking. Children and young writers may find it easier to begin writing philosophical poetry if they start by using poetic styles other than rhyme, such as repetitive form, since rhyme can be distracting and may interfere with the free flow of their philosophical thoughts. Most, but not all, philosophical poets do eventually develop one preferred form of philosophical verse when it comes to the style of their writing. For example, Rumi and Hafiz often utilize the single verse form, while Dickinson usually adheres to the quatrain form. Philosophical poets hail from both the Eastern and Western traditions.\n\n"}
{"id": "1464766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1464766", "title": "Picture bride", "text": "Picture bride\n\nThe term picture bride refers to the practice in the early 20th century of immigrant workers (chiefly Japanese, Okinawan, and Korean) in Hawaii and the West Coast of the United States and Canada selecting brides from their native countries via a matchmaker, who paired bride and groom using only photographs and family recommendations of the possible candidates. This is an abbreviated form of the traditional matchmaking process, and is similar in a number of ways to the concept of the mail-order bride.\n\nIn the late 19th century, Japanese, Okinawan, and Korean men traveled to Hawaii as cheap labor to work on the sugarcane plantations. Some continued on to work on the mainland. These men had originally planned to leave plantation work and go back home after a few years or a contract was up. Between the years of 1886 and 1924, 199,564 Japanese entered Hawaii and 113,362 returned to Japan. However, many men did not make enough money to go back home. Also, in 1907 the Gentlemen's Agreement prohibited immigration from Hawaii to the United States for laborers. Because now these men were put in situations with limited mobility, they had to make Hawaii or the United States their home, and part of that was getting married. In Hawaii, the plantation owners also wanted to see the laborers get married. Though they had originally preferred single men, when the contract labor system was abolished, the owners thought that wives would make the men more likely to settle down and stay. Also, the plantation owners hoped that wives would limit the amount of gambling and opium smoking the workers did, and act as a morale booster for the men.\n\nThere were many factors that influenced women to become picture brides. Some came from poor families, so they became picture brides for economic reasons. They thought that they would come upon economic prosperity in Hawaii and the United States, and could send back money to their families in Japan and Korea. Others did it out of obligation to their families. Because the marriages were often facilitated by parents, the daughters felt they could not go against their parents' wishes. One former picture bride recounted her decision: \"I had but remote ties with him yet because of the talks between our close parents and my parents' approval and encouragement, I decided upon our picture-bride marriage.\" \n\nSome women became picture brides in an attempt to escape familial duties. They thought that by leaving Japan or Korea they could get out of responsibilities such as filial piety that came along with traditional marriage. Some women thought that they would gain freedoms denied to them in Japan and Korea. A quote from a Korean picture bride named Mrs. K embodies the mindset of many picture brides traveling to Hawaii, \"Hawaii's a free place, everybody living well. Hawaii had freedom, so if you like talk, you can talk, if you like work, you can work.\" With the influx of women becoming picture brides, some women followed the trend as the thing to do. As one Japanese picture bride, Motome Yoshimura, explained, \"I wanted to come to the United States because everyone else was coming. So I joined the crowd.\"\n\nThese Japanese, Okinawan, and Korean women got the name picture brides because the men in Hawaii and the United States sent pictures back to their home countries in order to find a bride. Family members, often with the help of a go-between (called a \"nakodo\" in Japanese and a joong-mae jaeng-i in Korean), used these photos to try to find wives for men who sent them. When looking at prospective brides the go-betweens looked at the family background, health, ages and wealth of the women. The process of picture bride marriage was modeled after traditional arranged marriage (called miai kekkon in Japanese and Joong-mae-kyulhon in Korean). Picture bride marriage was not much different from these arranged marriage customs, except instead of the man having little role he had no role. Once the bride's name was entered into her husband's family registry, the marriage was considered official in Japan, and she was eligible for travel documents to the U.S. or Hawaii. However, even though this was sufficient in their home countries, it was not considered a valid form of marriage by the American government. Because of this, mass wedding ceremonies were held at the dock or in hotels subsequent to the brides' arrival.\n\nThe Gentlemen's Agreement of 1907 stopped the issuance of passports to Japanese laborers trying to go to America or Hawaii. However, there was a loophole in the agreement that allowed wives and children to immigrate to be with their husbands and fathers. It was because of this loophole that so many picture brides were able to immigrate to Hawaii and the United States. The impact of the Gentlemen's Agreement is evident in the population percentage of men and women before and after it was issued. For example, 86.7 percent of Japanese admitted to U.S. prior to Gentlemen's Agreement were men, after the agreement only 41.6 percent of the Japanese admitted were men. The spread of the Japanese people grew so rapidly that, in 1897, the Japanese were known as the largest single ethnic group in Hawai'i, consisting of 40 percent of the population by the year 1900. Between 1907 and 1923 14,276 Japanese picture brides and 951 Korean picture brides arrived in Hawaii. Between 1908 and 1920 over 10,000 picture brides arrived on the West Coast of the United States.\n\nIt was a rough journey for the picture brides. When they first arrived, they were required to go through numerous inspections at the immigration station. The United States government did not recognize picture marriages as being legal; therefore, the picture brides would meet their soon-to-be husbands for the first time and attend a mass wedding ceremony on the docks. Many of these women were surprised at what they found upon arrival. Most of what the women knew about their husbands before meeting them was based on the photos they had sent. However, the images presented did not always represent the men's real lives. Men would send photos back to Japan and Korea that were retouched, old, or of different men completely. Men often wore borrowed suits and chose to pose with luxury items, such as cars and houses, that they did not actually own. \n\nOne picture bride summarizes the feelings of many of the brides subsequent to meeting their husbands, she writes \"I came to Hawaii and was so surprised and very disappointed, because my husband sent his twenty-five-year-old handsome-looking picture...He came to the pier, but I see he's really old, old-looking. He was forty-five years more old than I am. My heart stuck.\" On average, the grooms were ten to fifteen years older than their brides. The age of their husbands were not the only shock for the women, they were also taken aback by their living conditions. Many women expected to live in houses like ones in the photos the men sent them, but instead found plantation quarters that were crude, isolated, and racially segregated. One of the reasons that the grooms and go-betweens were not altogether truthful with the future brides was because they believed that the women would not come if they knew the reality of the man and his conditions.\n\nThough they were now living in Hawaii, the Japanese picture brides still felt it was important to preserve their traditions and heritage. The values they tried to instill in their children were filial piety, obligation to community and authority (\"on\" in the Japanese language), reciprocal obligation (\"giri\" in Japanese), the importance of hard work, perseverance, frugality, and a drive for success (\"seiko\" in Japanese). Many picture brides worked on the plantations. In 1920 fourteen percent of the workers on the plantations were female, and of those female workers, eighty percent were Japanese. On the plantation they usually irrigated and weeded the fields, stripped cane of dry leaves, or cut seed cane. Men were given similar tasks, but were often paid more. For example, in 1915 Japanese women plantation workers made 55 cents compared to the 78 cents made by their male counterparts. \n\nIn addition to working in the fields the women also were expected to take care of the house, which included cooking, cleaning, sewing and raising the children. When a woman could not afford childcare she might work with her child on her back. Some picture bride women with children left the fields to work for bachelor men by doing laundry, cooking, or providing clothing. Korean picture brides left plantation life sooner than many Japanese women did, and many moved to Honolulu to start their own businesses. Regardless of whether they stayed on the plantation or not, it was important to the picture brides to build communities between themselves through women's groups and churches.\n\nThough initially unhappy, most of the picture brides eventually settled into their marriages or just accepted them so they did not shame their families. Japanese couples were often from similar areas of Japan and therefore had fewer marital issues than Korean couples who were often from different areas of Korea. Though, there were exceptions to this, and not every marriage worked out. Some of the picture brides, after seeing their husbands for the first time, rejected them and went back to Japan or Korea. Some married husbands turned out to be alcoholics, physically abusive, or tried to sell them into brothels, but many of these women nevertheless stayed in the marriage for the sake of the children. An example of a picture bride who stayed married to her husband, despite his mistreatment of her, was Shizuko Tamaki; she and her husband were married for 50 years. Others who initially married did not end up staying with their husbands. These picture brides resorted to elopement with another man, or \"kakeochi\" in Japanese. Elopement was especially hazardous to the picture brides because of its endangerment of their reputation and their residency in the United States. Wives who eloped could be deported to Japan, following the Japanese civil code that granted the husbands the ability to decide the new residency of their wife; for those women, the Women's Home Missionary Society in the United States provided temporary housing while they waited to go back to Japan. In order to find their wives who had disappeared, the husbands of these women would take out reward ads in Issei community newspapers for whomever could find their wife.\n\nMany residents of America and Hawaii thought that the Gentlemen's Agreement would end Japanese immigration to the United States, so when vast numbers of picture brides started arriving, it revitalized the Anti-Japanese Movement. The people who were so against the immigration of the Japanese and picture brides were called exclusionists. They called picture bride marriage uncivilized because it didn't involve love or have any regard to morality; exclusionists thought of picture bride marriage as a violation of the Gentlemen's Agreement, since they believed the women were more like workers rather than wives to the men. Exclusionists also feared that children produced from picture bride marriages would be a dangerous addition to the population because they would be able to buy land for their parents in the future. Also, some people, many immigrant inspectors included, thought that picture bride marriage was a disguise for a prostitution trade. Overall, there was a negative sentiment toward picture brides in Hawaii and the United States.\n\nIn order to maintain positive relations with the United States, the Japanese government stopped issuing passports to picture brides on March 1, 1920, because they were so ill-received in the United States. The end of picture brides left around 24,000 bachelors with no way to return to Japan and bring back a wife. Despite this, picture brides and the gentlemen's agreement were able to create a second Japanese generation, Nisei, consisting of 30,000 people in 1920.\n\nIn 1987, a novel titled \"Picture Bride\" was written by Yoshiko Uchida, and tells the story of a fictional Japanese woman named Hana Omiya, a picture bride sent to live with her new husband in Oakland, California in 1917. The novel also focuses on her experiences in a Japanese internment camp in 1943.\n\nIn 1994, a movie called \"Picture Bride (film)\" (unrelated to Uchida's novel) was made by Hawaii-born director Kayo Hatta and starred Youki Kudoh in the title role. The film tells the story of Riyo, a Japanese woman whose photograph exchange with a plantation worker leads her to Hawaii.\n\nA 2003 Korean language book entitled \"Sajin Sinbu\" (Korean for \"Picture Bride\"), compiled by Park Nam Soo, provides a thorough Korean/Korean-American cultural approach to the topic, providing a historical overview of the picture bride phenomenon in the Korean context, as well as related poetry, short stories, essays, and critical essays written by various Korean/Korean-American authors. The book was compiled for the Korean centennial, marking the one-hundred-year anniversary of the first known arrival of Korean immigrants to U.S. territory in 1903 aboard .\n\nA 2009 novel, Honolulu by Alan Brennert features a Korean picture bride coming to Hawaii.\n\nA 2011 novel by Julie Otsuka titled \"The Buddha in the Attic\" tells the life of pictures brides brought from Japan to San Francisco about a century ago and what it means to be an American in uncertain times. The novel was a National Book Award for fiction finalist in 2011 and was short listed for 2013 Dublin IMPAC literary award.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "288400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288400", "title": "Provenance", "text": "Provenance\n\nProvenance (from the French \"provenir\", 'to come from/forth') is the chronology of the ownership, custody or location of a historical object. The term was originally mostly used in relation to works of art but is now used in similar senses in a wide range of fields, including archaeology, paleontology, archives, manuscripts, printed books and science and computing. The primary purpose of tracing the provenance of an object or entity is normally to provide contextual and circumstantial evidence for its original production or discovery, by establishing, as far as practicable, its later history, especially the sequences of its formal ownership, custody and places of storage. The practice has a particular value in helping authenticate objects. Comparative techniques, expert opinions and the results of scientific tests may also be used to these ends, but establishing provenance is essentially a matter of documentation. The term dates to the 1780s in English. Provenance is conceptually comparable to the legal term \"chain of custody\".\n\nIn archaeology and paleontology, the derived term provenience is used with a related but very particular meaning, to refer to the location (in modern research, recorded precisely in three dimensions) where an artifact or other ancient item was found. \"Provenance\" covers an object's complete documented history. An artifact may thus have both a provenience and a provenance.\n\nThe provenance of works of fine art, antiques and antiquities is of great importance, especially to their owner. There are a number of reasons why painting provenance is important, which mostly also apply to other types of fine art. A good provenance increases the value of a painting, and establishing provenance may help confirm the date, artist and, especially for portraits, the subject of a painting. It may confirm whether a painting is genuinely of the period it seems to date from. The provenance of paintings can help resolve ownership disputes. For example, provenance between 1933 and 1945 can determine whether a painting was looted by the Nazis. Many galleries are putting a great deal of effort into researching the provenance of paintings in their collections for which there is no firm provenance during that period. Documented evidence of provenance for an object can help to establish that it has not been altered and is not a forgery, a reproduction, stolen or looted art. Provenance helps assign the work to a known artist, and a documented history can be of use in helping to prove ownership. An example of a detailed provenance is given in the Arnolfini portrait.\n\nThe quality of provenance of an important work of art can make a considerable difference to its selling price in the market; this is affected by the degree of certainty of the provenance, the status of past owners as collectors, and in many cases by the strength of evidence that an object has not been illegally excavated or exported from another country. The provenance of a work of art may vary greatly in length, depending on context or the amount that is known, from a single name to an entry in a scholarly catalogue some thousands of words long.\n\nAn expert certification can mean the difference between an object having no value and being worth a fortune. Certifications themselves may be open to question. Jacques van Meegeren forged the work of his father Han van Meegeren (who in his turn had forged the work of Vermeer). Jacques sometimes produced a certificate with his forgeries stating that a work was created by his father.\n\nJohn Drewe was able to pass off as genuine paintings, a large number of forgeries that would have easily been recognised as such by scientific examination. He established an impressive (but false) provenance and because of this galleries and dealers accepted the paintings as genuine. He created this false provenance by forging letters and other documents, including false entries in earlier exhibition catalogues.\n\nSometimes provenance can be as simple as a photograph of the item with its original owner. Simple yet definitive documentation such as that can increase its value by an order of magnitude, but only if the owner was of high renown. Many items that were sold at auction have gone far past their estimates because of a photograph showing that item with a famous person. Some examples include antiques owned by politicians, musicians, artists, actors, etc.\n\nThe objective of provenance research is to produce a complete list of owners (together, where possible, with the supporting documentary proof) from when the painting was commissioned or in the artist's studio through to the present time. In practice, there are likely to be gaps in the list and documents that are missing or lost. The documented provenance should also list when the painting has been part of an exhibition and a bibliography of when it has been discussed (or illustrated) in print.\n\nWhere the research is proceeding backwards, to discover the previous provenance of a painting whose current ownership and location is known, it is important to record the physical details of the painting – style, subject, signature, materials, dimensions, frame, etc. The titles of paintings and the attribution to a particular artist may change over time. The size of the work and its description can be used to identify earlier references to the painting. The back of a painting can contain significant provenance information. There may be exhibition marks, dealer stamps, gallery labels and other indications of previous ownership. There may also be shipping labels. In the BBC TV programme \"Fake or Fortune?\" the provenance of the painting \"Bords de la Seine à Argenteuil\" was investigated using a gallery sticker and shipping label on the back. Early provenance can sometimes be indicated by a \"cartellino\" (a representation of an inscribed label) added to the front of a painting. However, these can be forged, or can fade or be painted over.\n\nAuction records are an important resource to assist in researching the provenance of paintings. \n\nIf a painting has been in private hands for an extended period and on display in a stately home, it may be recorded in an inventory – for example, the Lumley inventory. The painting may also have been noticed by a visitor who subsequently wrote about it. It may have been mentioned in a will or a diary. Where the painting has been bought from a dealer, or changed hands in a private transaction, there may be a bill of sale or sales receipt that provides evidence of provenance. Where the artist is known, there may be a catalogue raisonné listing all the artist's known works and their location at the time of writing. A database of catalogues raisonnés is available at the International Foundation for Art Research. Historic photos of the painting may be discussed and illustrated in a more general work on the artist, period or genre. Similarly, a photograph of a painting may show inscriptions (or a signature) that subsequently became lost as a result of overzealous restoration. Conversely, a photograph may show that an inscription was not visible at an earlier date. One of the disputed aspects of the \"Rice\" portrait of Jane Austen concerns apparent inscriptions identifying artist and sitter.\n\nProvenance – also known as \"custodial history\" – is a core concept of archival science and archival processing. The term refers to the individuals, groups, or organizations that originally created or received the items in an accumulation of records, and to the items' subsequent chain of custody. The principle of provenance (sometimes also termed the principle of \"archival integrity\" or \"respect des fonds\") stipulates that records originating from a common source (or fonds) should be kept together – where practicable, physically; but in all cases intellectually, in the way in which they are catalogued and arranged in finding aids. Conversely, records of different provenance should be preserved and documented separately. In archival practice, proof of provenance is provided by the operation of control systems that document the history of records kept in archives, including details of amendments made to them. The authority of an archival document or set of documents of which the provenance is uncertain (because of gaps in the recorded chain of custody) will be considered to be severely compromised.\n\nThe principles of archival provenance were developed in the 19th century by both French and Prussian archivists, and gained widespread acceptance on the basis of their formulation in the \"Manual for the Arrangement and Description of Archives\" by Dutch state archivists Samuel Muller, J. A. Feith, and R. Fruin, published in the Netherlands in 1898 (often referred to as the \"Dutch Manual\").\n\nSeamus Ross has argued a case for adapting established principles and theories of archival provenance to the field of modern digital preservation and curation.\n\n\"Provenance\" is also the title of the journal published by the Society of Georgia Archivists.\n\nIn the case of books, the study of provenance refers to the study of the ownership of individual copies of books. It is usually extended to include study of the circumstances in which individual copies of books have changed ownership, and of evidence left in books that shows how readers interacted with them.\n\nProvenance studies may shed light on the books themselves, providing evidence of the role particular titles have played in social, intellectual and literary history. Such studies may also add to our knowledge of particular owners of books. For instance, looking at the books owned by a writer may help to show which works influenced him or her.\n\nMany provenance studies are historically focused, and concentrated on books owned by writers, politicians and public figures. The recent ownership of books is studied, however, as is evidence of how ordinary or anonymous readers have interacted with books.\n\nProvenance can be studied both by examining the books themselves (for instance looking at inscriptions, marginalia, bookplates, book rhymes, and bindings) and by reference to external sources of information such as auction catalogues.\n\nIn transactions of old wine with the potential of improving with age, the issue of provenance has a large bearing on the assessment of the contents of a bottle, both in terms of quality and the risk of wine fraud. A documented history of wine cellar conditions is valuable in estimating the quality of an older vintage due to the fragile nature of wine.\n\nRecent technology developments have aided collectors in assessing the temperature and humidity history or the wine which are two key components in establishing perfect provenance. For example, there are devices available that rest inside the wood case and can be read through the wood by waving a smartphone equipped with a simple app. These devices track the conditions the case has been exposed to for the duration of the battery life, which can be as long as 15 years, and sends a graph and high/low readings to the smartphone user. This takes the trust issue out of the hands of the owner and gives it to a third party for verification.\n\nArchaeology and anthropology researchers use \"provenience\" to refer to the exact location or find spot of an artifact, a bone or other remains, a soil sample, or a feature within an ancient site, whereas \"provenance\" covers an object's complete documented history. Ideally, in modern excavations, the provenience is recorded in three dimensions on a site grid with great precision, and may also be recorded on video to provide additional proof and context. In older work, often undertaken by amateurs, only the general site or approximate area may be known, especially when an artifact was found outside a professional excavation and its specific position not recorded. The term \"provenience\" appeared in the 1880s, about a century after \"provenance\". Outside of academic contexts, it has been used as a synonymous variant spelling of \"provenance\", especially in American English.\n\nAny given antiquity may have both a provenience (where it was found) and a provenance (where it has been since it was found). A summary of the distinction is that \"provenience is a fixed point, while provenance can be considered an itinerary that an object follows as it moves from hand to hand.\" Another metaphor is that provenience is an artifact's \"birthplace\", while provenance is its \"résumé\", though this is imprecise (many artifacts originated as trade goods created in one region but were used and finally deposited in another).\n\nAside from scientific precision, a need for the distinction in these fields has been described thus:\nIn this context, the \"provenance\" can occasionally be the detailed history of where an object has been since its creation, as in art history contexts – not just since its modern finding. In some cases, such as where there is an inscription on the object, or an account of it in written materials from the same era, an object of study in archaeology or cultural anthropology may have an early provenance – a known history that predates modern research – then a provenience from its modern finding, and finally a continued provenance relating to its handling and storage or display after the modern acquisition.\n\nEvidence of provenance in the more general sense can be of importance in archaeology. Fakes are not unknown, and finds are sometimes removed from the context in which they were found without documentation, reducing their value to science. Even when apparently discovered \"in situ\", archaeological finds are treated with caution. The provenience of a find may not be properly represented by the context in which it was found (e.g. due to stratigraphic layers being disturbed by erosion, earthquakes, or ancient reconstruction or other disturbance at a site. Artifacts can also be moved through looting as well as trade, far from their place of origin and long before modern rediscovery. Further research is often required to establish the true provenance of a find, and what the relationship is between the exact provenience and the overall provenance.\n\nIn paleontology and paleoanthropology, it is recognized that fossils can also move from their primary context and are sometimes found, apparently \"in-situ\", in deposits to which they do not belong because they have been moved, for example, by the erosion of nearby but different outcrops. It is unclear how strictly paleontology maintains the \"provenience\" and \"provenance\" distinction. For example, a short glossary at a website (primarily aimed at young students) of the American Museum of Natural History treats the terms as synonymous, while scholarly paleontology works make frequent use of \"provenience\" in the same precise sense as used in archaeology and paleoanthropology.\n\nWhile exacting details of a find's provenience are primarily of use to scientific researchers, most natural history and archaeology museums also make strenuous efforts to record how the items in their collections were acquired. These records are often of use in helping to establish a chain of provenance.\n\nScientific research is generally held to be of good provenance when it is documented in detail sufficient to allow reproducibility. Scientific workflow systems assist scientists and programmers with tracking their data through all transformations, analyses, and interpretations. Data sets are reliable when the process used to create them are reproducible and analyzable for defects. Current initiatives to effectively manage, share, and reuse ecological data are indicative of the increasing importance of data provenance. Examples of these initiatives are National Science Foundation Datanet projects, DataONE and Data Conservancy, as well as the U.S. Global Change Research Program. Some international academic consortia, such as the Research Data Alliance, have specific group to tackle issues of provenance. In that case it is the Research Data Provenance Interest Group.\n\nWithin computer science, informatics uses the term 'provenance' to mean the lineage of data, as per data provenance, with research in the last decade extending the conceptual model of causality and relation to include processes that act on data and agents that are responsible for those processes. See, for example, the proceedings of the International Provenance Annotation Workshop (IPAW) and Theory and Practice of Provenance (TaPP). Semantic web standards bodies, including the World Wide Web Consortium in 2014, have ratified a standard data model for provenance representation known as PROV which draws from many of the better-known provenance representation systems that preceded it, such as the Proof Markup Language and the Open Provenance Model.\n\nInteroperability is a design goal of most recent computer science provenance theories and models, for example the Open Provence Model (OPM) 2008 generation workshop aimed at \"establishing inter-operability of systems\" through information exchange agreements. Data models and serialisation formats for delivering provenance information typically reuse existing metadata models where possible to enable this. Both the OPM Vocabulary and the PROV Ontology make extensive use of metadata models such as Dublin Core and Semantic Web technologies such as the Web Ontology Language (OWL). Current practice is to rely on the W3C PROV data model, OPM's successor.\n\nThere are several maintained and open-source provenance capture implementation at the operating system level such as CamFlow, Progger for Linux and MS Windows, and SPADE for Linux, MS Windows, and MacOS. Other implementations exist for specific programming and scripting languages, such as RDataTracker for R, and NoWorkflow for Python.\n\n\nIn the geologic use of the term, provenance instead refers to the origin or source area of particles within a rock, most commonly in sedimentary rocks. It does not refer to the circumstances of the collection of the rock. The provenance of sandstone, in particular, can be evaluated by determining the proportion of quartz, feldspar, and lithic fragments (see diagram).\n\nSeed provenance refers to the specified area in which plants that produced seed are located or were derived. Local provenancing is a position maintained by ecologists that suggests that only seeds of local provenance should be planted in a particular area. However, this view depends on the adaptationist program – a view that populations are universally locally adapted. It is maintained that local seed is best adapted to local conditions, and that outbreeding depression will be avoided. Evolutionary biologists suggest that strict adherence to provenance collecting is not a wise decision because:\n\nProvenance trials, where material of different provenances are planted in a single place or at different locations spanning a range of environmental conditions, is a way to reveal genetic variation among provenances. It also contributes to an understanding of how different provenances respond to various climatic and environmental conditions and can as such contribute with knowledge on how to strategically select provenances for climate change adaptation.\n\nThe term \"provenance\" is used when ascertaining the source of goods such as computer hardware to assess if they are genuine or counterfeit. Chain of custody is an equivalent term used in law, especially for evidence in criminal or commercial cases.\n\nSoftware provenance encompasses the origin of software and its licensing terms. For example, when incorporating a free, open source or proprietary software component in an application, one may wish to understand its provenance to ensure that licensing requirements are fulfilled and that other software characteristics can be understood.\n\nData provenance covers the provenance of computerized data. There are two main aspects of data provenance: ownership of the data and data usage. Ownership will tell the user who is responsible for the source of the data, ideally including information on the originator of the data. Data usage gives details regarding how the data has been used and modified and often includes information on how to cite the data source or sources. Data provenance is of particular concern with electronic data, as data sets are often modified and copied without proper citation or acknowledgement of the originating data set. Databases make it easy to select specific information from data sets and merge this data with other data sources without any documentation of how the data was obtained or how it was modified from the original data set or sets.\nThe automated analysis of data provenance graphs has been described as a mean to verify compliance with regulations regarding data usage such as introduced by the EU GDPR.\n\nSecure Provenance refers to providing integrity and confidentiality guarantees to provenance information. In other words, secure provenance means to ensure that history cannot be rewritten, and users can specify who else can look into their actions on the object.\n\nA simple method of ensuring data provenance in computing is to mark a file as read only. This allows the user to view the contents of the file, but not edit or otherwise modify it. Read only can also in some cases prevent the user from accidentally or intentionally deleting the file.\n\n\nProvenance in book studies\n\n"}
{"id": "3219525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3219525", "title": "Public-benefit corporation", "text": "Public-benefit corporation\n\nPublic-benefit corporations are a specific type of corporation that allow for public benefit to be a charter purpose in addition to the traditional corporate goal of maximizing profit for shareholders. Depending on the country they may also be known as crown corporations, statutory corporations, or government owned corporations having monopoly over a specific service or market.. \n\nThe Public Utility Vehicle Modernization Program may be given as an example of public benefit, coming from a governmental organization. \nSecondly, the model of a public utility corporation shall represent an example for the private sector of the economy.\n\nA public authority is a type of public-benefit corporation that takes on a more bureaucratic role, such as the maintenance of public infrastructure, that often has broad powers to regulate or maintain public property. These agencies are known in some countries as statutory authorities, statutory boards, government owned corporations, regulatory agencies, QUANGO or independent government agencies.\n\nAuthorities borrow from both municipal corporation law (that is, the laws responsible for the creation of cities, towns, and other forms of local government) and private corporations law. Other public-benefit corporations resemble private non-profit organizations, and take on roles that private corporations might otherwise perform. These corporations often operate in heavily regulated industries, such as broadcasting and transportation.\n\nCorporations such as these are often found in common law jurisdictions such as the Commonwealth countries and the United States.\n\nAlthough corporations are now typically associated with private business, historically corporations began as means to serve defined and limited public purposes. Corporation history has roots primarily in government subdivisions and religious institutions, where the institution itself is identifiable independently of its membership's mortality. For example, if the Pope dies, the Catholic Church continues to exist, just as it continues to exist as generations pass on and get replaced by new members.\n\nPublic-benefit corporations likely have their direct roots in mercantile capitalism. In the early days of European exploration and colonization, a government or monarch would sometimes grant a charter to an entity defining a legal body (\"corporation\") and make potentially risky investments. While certainly not public-benefit corporations by today's standards, entities such as the Massachusetts Bay Company, Hudson's Bay Company, and the Dutch East India Company arguably are prototypical examples of publicly chartered (in this case, crown-chartered) corporations successfully undertaking defined activities with the support of privately contributed investments.\n\nThe modern era of delegation of government authority to a chartered corporation is marked by the United Kingdom Port of London Authority, established 1908. According to the Port of London Acts The Authority is a public trust established to \"administer, preserve and improve the Port of London.\" The goal was to create an entity that would be run self-sufficiently like a private company yet remain under the control of the government. The name \"Authority\" is derived from the founding act of Parliament which repeatedly stated that \"Authority is hereby given...\" The special status of this entity and the fact that it remained subject to administrative law was established by the UK courts in \"\" [1919] 1 KB 176.\n\nPublic-benefit corporations are generally governed by boards of directors, which are appointed, rather than elected, and, internally, reflect bureaucratic forms. The corporation is government-owned and performs a specific, narrow function for the public good.\n\nPublic-benefit corporations are most often created by statute. In many Commonwealth countries, public-benefit corporations continue to receive charters from the British monarchy. In the United States, they receive their charters usually from states, but possibly from the federal government.\n\nPublic authorities are usually created with a specific mandate, such as the construction of bridges, mass transit, etc. Unlike departments or ministries of the state, these corporations usually are enabled by statute to raise revenues through bond issues.\n\nFor more information, read below about individual jurisdictions.\n\nThe first reference to public-benefit corporations in United Kingdom law is in the Health and Social Care (Community Health and Standards) Act 2003, which established NHS Foundation Trusts as public-benefit corporations. Schedule 1 of the Act sets out the requirements for a public-benefit corporation which include a membership made up of individuals living in a specific area, employees of the corporation and service users, and a board of governors some of whom are elected by the members based on \"constituencies\" such as staff, users or public. British authorities have used other terms with similar functions to public-benefit corporations such as statutory authority, QUANGO and crown corporation.\n\nPublic-benefit corporations are distinguishable from public authorities in that the latter do not have a membership.\n\nExamples of other bodies which have a similar role to, whilst not being formally called, public-benefit corporations include the BBC, which is incorporated by royal charter. Many universities have charters going back centuries, and so are also chartered corporations.\n\nVia Rail in Canada is an independent crown corporation offering intercity passenger rail services in Canada. The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation is another example.\n\nThe Province of Ontario shares two international public-benefit corporations with the U.S. state of New York:\n\nIn Russia the law \"On Noncommercial Organizations\" describes the status state corporations. It is a special form of noncommercial partnership founded by the state to fulfill socially significant tasks. The activities of each corporation are described in a special federal law. Assets transferred to a state corporation are not state property from the legal point of view. Under the law \"On Noncommercial Organizations\", property transferred to as the investment in a partnership is the property of the partnership. The partnership itself is no one's property. It manages its assets as described in its charter. The rights of the founder are considerable in the partnership, but they are still not ownership rights. There is only one founder in a state corporation, and it is the Russian Federation. That is why the state corporation is independent. It is a set of assets that are managed for purposes established in its charter by managers appointed by the founder. State corporations, as a rule, are subordinate not to the government, but to the Russian president, and act to accomplish some important goal. The state corporations can manage those assets as demanded by the sketchily described goals and tasks of the charters and as allowed by the supervisory council, on which there is no one the president does not trust.\n\nThe U.S. Constitution is silent about the Federal Government's creation of corporations; the power to define and create corporations (other than as agencies of the U.S. government) is mostly reserved to the individual states. The interstate commerce clause of the constitution gives implicit authority to create private federally chartered commercial corporations; the most numerous are federally chartered banks and similar financial institutions. The federal government has established certain corporations by an act of Congress, mostly non-profit organizations serving the public interest, such as the Civil Air Patrol, as well as various charitable, fraternal, and veterans' organizations. In addition, certain parastatals, which are for-profit, but may exercise unique powers, such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, have federal charters.\n\nPrivate corporations were not common in the early United States, and were created by an act of a state legislature, typically for a public purpose, such as for the building and maintenance of a toll bridge or toll road or water utility. Today private corporations may be created by simply filing appropriate documents with the appropriate department of a State.\n\nFederal government public benefit corporations are often Independent agencies of the United States government as form of Government-owned corporation. Examples of federal public-benefit corporations created, owned and operated by the U.S. government include Amtrak, the United States Postal Service and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. Many public authorities in the United States are interstate compacts or local and regional entities spanning multiple municipalities on the county or state level.\n\n\nCalifornia Corporation law designates three types of non-profit corporations — Religious Corporations (for example, a religious order might be incorporated as one of these), Mutual Benefit Corporations (a condominium association) and a Public Benefit Corporation (often things like hospitals or colleges). The assets of a public benefit corporation are irrevocably dedicated to its charitable purpose. (Generally beginning in California Corporation Code at §5100 — https://web.archive.org/web/20120120002651/http://www.leginfo.ca.gov/cgi-bin/displaycode?section=corp&group=05001-06000&file=5110-5111)\n\nUnder California law a Public Benefit Corporation may be created by a public entity — as the two examples above suggest, but the definition in the California Codes is very specific.\n\nThe Colorado General Assembly in House Bill 13-1138 allows for Public Benefit Companies. Section 7-101-503(2), C.R.S., defines public benefit as \"one or more positive effects or reduction of negative effects on one or more categories of persons, entities, communities, or interests other than shareholders in their capacities as shareholders, including effects of an artistic, charitable, cultural, economic, educational, environmental, literary, medical, religious, scientific, or technological nature.\"\n\nEllo is an example of a Colorado company which operates under the PBC laws.\n\nIn July 2013, Governor Markell signed into law a new type of public benefit corporation.\n\nThe General Corporation Law (Title 8, Chapter 1 of the Delaware Code) was recently amended by Senate Bill No. 47, effective August 1, 2013, adding a new subchapter XV, which authorizes the creation of Public Benefits Corporations. As defined in the GCL, a PBC is a for-profit corporation intended to produce a public benefit and operate in a responsible and sustainable manner. The PBC is to be managed in a manner that balances stockholders' pecuniary interests, the best interests of those materially affected by the corporation's conduct and the public benefit for which the PBC is formed.\n\nIn June 2015, Senate Bill No. 75 amended Delaware PBC rules to make it easier to form, operate or convert into a PBC, by facilitating the naming of PBCs, simplifying the issuance of stock options in PBCs and reducing the voting threshold for conversion from 90 percent to two-thirds of stockholders.\n\nThe Fourth Estate is an example of a Delaware company that operates under the state's public benefit corporation statute. Kickstarter is also a public benefit corporation chartered in Delaware.\n\n\n\nAs of February 2016, the Georgia legislature is considering House Bill 1052, which would add benefit corporations to Georgia's existing for-profit corporate code.\n\nThe Bi-State Development Agency is a bi-state agency managing public transportation between southern Illinois and Missouri. It serves the St. Louis metropolitan area.\n\nThe Regional Transportation Authority (RTA) oversees funding and operation of public transit in the Illinois portion of the Chicago metropolitan area.\n\nThe Illinois State Toll Highway Authority\n\n\nEffective December 1, 2012, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts allows for the charter of public benefit corporations. Public benefit corporations are incorporated under Chapter 156A or 156D and may choose to prioritize environmental and social aims over profit. \n\nThe state of Minnesota has enacted a Public Benefit Corporation Act, effective January 2015. A Minnesota public benefit corporation is defined as an entity created under the state's business corporation statute, which \"elects in its articles to pursue general public benefit...\" \"General public benefit,\" in turn, is defined as \"a net material positive impact from the business and operations...on society, the environment, and the well-being of present and future generations.\"\n\nSee \"Bi-State Development Agency\".\n\nThe New Jersey Turnpike Authority (NJTA) is a public-benefit corporation in New Jersey, created by the New Jersey Turnpike Authority Act of 1948.\n\nThe Delaware River and Bay Authority controls the Delaware Memorial Bridge between Delaware and New Jersey, and is a bi-state agency. The Delaware River Port Authority is a bi-state agency of New Jersey and Pennsylvania. The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey is a bi-state agency shared with New York.\n\nNJ Transit, formed in 1979 operates bus, light rail and passenger rail service in New Jersey and in neighboring states as well as funding and planning of bus and rail services and programs.\n\nAlthough \"Public Benefit Corporation\" is not a statutorily defined term under State laws (New Jersey Statutes or the New Jersey Administrative Code), such corporations are among those included within the statutorily defined term \"State Agency\".\n\n\nThe widespread use of public authorities in the United States was pioneered in New York state by Robert Moses. New York likely has the most extensive number of public-benefit corporations in the country. The approval of the New York State Public Authorities Control Board is required in some cases when creating an authority. An authority may at times levy taxes and tolls; this means that they are not part of the usual state budgetary process, and gives them a certain independence. Their most admired ability by the New York State and local government, is to circumvent strict public debt limits in the New York State Constitution. Furthermore, they may make contracts; because of public authorities' corporate status, there is generally no remedy against the chartering State for the breach of such contracts. On the other hand, as agents of the state, public authorities are not subject to many laws governing private corporations, and are not subject to municipal regulation. Employees of public authorities usually are not state employees, but are employees of the authority. Public authorities can also often condemn property.\n\nAmong the major public-benefit corporations in New York state are the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, a bistate authority; and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which manages most of the public transportation in and around New York City.\n\n\nArticles of incorporation may be filed listing the new entity as a Public Benefit company. Existing companies may be converted to Public Benefit. A checklist of requirements can be found at the Oregon Secretary of State, Public Benefit Corporation Page.\n\nTennessee is arguably the banner state for the Tennessee Valley Authority's (TVA's) operations, which span a region extending into seven states (most of Tennessee and parts of six others), but the TVA is actually a federally owned public authority. The TVA has been key in aiding the region's economic development, most notably in the 1930s during the Great Depression.\n\n\nLike Maine, the state of Vermont defines public-benefit corporations broadly. They include public-benefit corporations founded by the state and by private entities. The Vermont Economic Development Authority is an example of a state-owned public-benefit corporation.\n\n\nMore broadly, a public-benefit corporation could be any corporation that exists for a charitable purpose, though these are generally called non-profit corporations if they are not founded by a government. Some jurisdictions (the U.S. State of Maine, for instance) might define a public-benefit corporation broadly. In California, public-benefit corporations are one of several types of non-profit corporations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "429328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429328", "title": "Reno 911!", "text": "Reno 911!\n\nReno 911! is an American comedy television series on Comedy Central that ran from 2003 to 2009. It is a mockumentary-style parody of law enforcement documentary shows, specifically \"Cops\", with comic actors playing the police officers. Most of the material is improvised, using a broad outline with minimal scripted material. The series spawned a film, \"\", featuring the same cast. Thomas Lennon, Robert Ben Garant and Kerri Kenney-Silver all starred in and are billed as creators of the series.\n\nThe show is a direct satire of the iconic Fox Television series, \"Cops\" (which follows actual police officers through their daily duties, such as chasing criminals, and intervening in domestic disputes). \"Reno 911!\" features members of the fictitious, massively inept \"Reno Sheriff's Department\"—distinct from the actual Reno Police Department, and, Washoe County Sheriff's Office, both of which are absent from the series (although Comedy Central has repeatedly referenced the series as being about the \"men and women of the Washoe County Sheriff's Department\"). In the course of their duties patrolling both the city of Reno and the rest of Washoe County, Nevada, the deputies sometimes address the camera directly (as though being interviewed for a documentary). The show deals heavily in politically incorrect and racy humor, including many jokes about race, sexual orientation, substance abuse, rape, pedophilia, and mental disorders. Another main comedic aspect of the show is the outlandishly severe incompetence of the deputies—often resulting in their being outsmarted by the criminals they are attempting to control.\n\nOnly the basic plot elements of the show are scripted, while the dialogue is improvised—enhancing the illusion of reality (a practice referred to as retroscripting). Unlike \"Cops\", which the show parodies, \"Reno 911!\" Sheriff's deputies are constantly cursing, causing much of their dialogue to be censored for broadcast. The actors often perform their own stunts. A constantly changing cast of weirdos, prostitutes, homeless persons, survivalists, political figures, celebrities, etc. are portrayed by comedian friends of the primary cast, and the cast themselves, while disguising their voices and general appearance (and, whose faces were blurred in the style of \"Cops\").\n\nThe show's characters occasionally refer to their own program. They insist that the show's producers told them the videotaped footage was going to be used for a Fox Television documentary series titled \"Heroes on Patrol\"; and, often stated in frustration, that they have no control over what is aired, and that the show only seems to capture their 'moments' of incompetence. The many \"good\" incidents, they allege, are left out of the (show-within-a-show's) final edit. Also, some suspects in the show refer to the film crew, and the program being aired on television; occasionally, they will attempt to get arrested just to be on TV.\n\nIn Thomas Lennon's words, \"Reno 911!\" came about, \"like the best of ideas, through total desperation.\" Following the end of \"Viva Variety\", \"The State\" alumni worked on a series of pilots for Fox Television, one of which, after a year's worth of dedicated writing, was terminated the day before shooting. It was scheduled to begin in the fall of 2000. With a month left before the pilot was expected to be due (and half of the budget still unused), the team asked if they could produce another pilot with the remaining resources, and the Fox executives agreed. Working quickly to take advantage of this, the initial \"Reno 911!\" pilot was conceived and shot in five days. Cedric Yarbrough, who had been hired for the cast of the canceled pilot, said that the cast was advised to \"come up with [their] own characters\" and return for filming.\n\nAs originally written, the sheriff's department material would have served as link material between traditional comedy sketches; the canceled project was being considered for the Fox Saturday lineup, and the team thought at the time that the \"Cops\" format was a natural framework for sketch comedy. However, during the shooting—and especially the editing—they realized the police element was more interesting than the sketches, and the finished pilot was, according to Robert Ben Garant, \"remarkably similar\" to the series that eventually aired. Nevertheless, Fox turned down the completed pilot. According to Lennon, their decision not to pick the show up was influenced by a scene, preserved in the eventual Comedy Central pilot, involving Lt. Dangle passionately kissing a man. It was another two years before Comedy Central greenlit the project.\n\nThe establishing shots for the show were filmed in Reno, and everything else was filmed in Carson, California, and some parts of Oregon. Many of the main scenes of the show were shot over the course of many hours, such as the briefing room scenes. According to the DVD commentary for season three, all morning briefing scenes for a season may be filmed on one 10-hour day with different basic plot elements to be used in different episodes. Actors would contribute their dialogue as they were inspired to do so.\n\nThe show was continued for two additional seasons with Comedy Central running a special of the show titled \"Reno 911!: Off Duty\" on March 21, 2004. The fourth season began on July 9, 2006 and comprised 14 episodes. Comedy Central aired the first seven in the fall of 2006 and the last seven in the spring of 2007. Also in early 2007, a theatrical film based upon the series entitled \"\" was released in North America, featuring the complete TV series cast. The Season Four spring debut drew 1.3 million viewers during the week of March 26 to April 1, 2007. Excess footage from season three was used in season four.\n\nOn October 9, 2006, Comedy Central confirmed 13 new episodes to make up \"Reno 911!\" Season Five, though the season actually contained 16 episodes. Production of Season Five started in January and wrapped up in April. \"Reno 911!\" Season Five premiered on January 16, 2008. On March 27, 2007, Superstation WGN acquired the first four seasons of the half-hour comedy for a two-year run. The syndicated \"Reno 911!\" is a part of their late night comedy block. Reruns are syndicated to broadcast stations. In 2007, Lennon and Garant later appeared in-character on a comedy compilation CD, \"Comedy Death-Ray\", released on September 11, singing a song about why not to use drugs.\n\nOn November 10, 2008, Comedy Central confirmed 10 new episodes to make up \"Reno 911!\" Season Six, the final season. Principal photography was done between November and December 2008. Carmen Electra was a guest star on an episode filmed December 5, 2008 at Grant High School in Los Angeles. Season Six premiered on April 1, 2009 on Comedy Central. Season Six consisted of fifteen episodes. Cast members Carlos Alazraqui, Wendi McLendon-Covey, and Mary Birdsong did not return for the final season and their characters' absence was explained as fatalities from an explosion in the Season Five finale. In addition, actors Ian Roberts and Joe Lo Truglio were added to the principal cast as Sergeant Jack Declan and Deputy Frank Salvatore Rizzo, respectively.\n\nOn August 13, 2009, Thomas Lennon announced through Twitter that the show had ended its six-year run. In response to the cancellation, residents and officials of Reno, Nevada petitioned to save the show.\n\nIn October 2011, a story broke that the producers of \"Reno 911!\" were in negotiations with the popular internet streaming website Netflix to revive the cancelled Comedy Central series. The main reason \"Reno 911!\"s producers wanted to revive the show was because only 88 episodes were produced, the producers and syndicating networks would have liked for the show to hit the 100 episode milestone. However, at the time, Comedy Central, who still held sole rights to the show, had not been involved in any negotiations. As well, Thomas Lennon and Robert Ben Garant were attached to other projects.\n\n\nThroughout the show's run, all three main cast members from \"Stella\" (who were also from \"The State\") made appearances as characters. While Michael Showalter was the exception on the TV series, he appeared in the , along with all of the cast members of \"The State\".\n\n\nThe series spawned a film released in 2007. In the film, the deputies are called in to save the day after a terrorist attack disrupts a national police convention and locks over 2000 police officers in a hotel in Miami Beach during spring break.\n\nIn December 2017, Nash said another film is in the works.\n\nBest of Releases\n"}
{"id": "43082197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43082197", "title": "School for Conflict Analysis and Resolution", "text": "School for Conflict Analysis and Resolution\n\nThe School for Conflict Analysis and Resolution (S-CAR) is a division of George Mason University based near Washington, D.C., United States with locations in Arlington, Fairfax, and Lorton, Virginia.\n\nS-CAR was founded in 1981 as the Center for Conflict Analysis, later named the Center for Conflict Analysis and Resolution (CCAR) and began offering a master's degree in Conflict Analysis and Resolution in 1983. In 1988 it became the first academic institution to grant PhD's in Conflict Analysis and Resolution and rose to the status of Institute, becoming ICAR in 1989. In 2010, after a decade of growth and development, including the introduction of the undergraduate program and graduate certificate programs, it became the School for Conflict Analysis and Resolution (S-CAR).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28130", "title": "Sign", "text": "Sign\n\nA sign is an object, quality, event, or entity whose presence or occurrence indicates the probable presence or occurrence of something else. A natural sign bears a causal relation to its object—for instance, thunder is a sign of storm, or medical symptoms signify a disease. A conventional sign signifies by agreement, as a full stop signifies the end of a sentence; similarly the words and expressions of a language, as well as bodily gestures, can be regarded as signs, expressing particular meanings. The physical objects most commonly referred to as signs (notices, road signs, etc., collectively known as signage) generally inform or instruct using written text, symbols, pictures or a combination of these.\n\nThe philosophical study of signs and symbols is called semiotics; this includes the study of semiosis, which is the way in which signs (in the semiotic sense) operate.\n\nSemiotics, epistemology, logic, and philosophy of language are concerned about the nature of signs, what they are and how they signify. The nature of signs and symbols and significations, their definition, elements, and types, is mainly established by Aristotle, Augustine, and Aquinas. According to these classic sources, significance is a relationship between two sorts of things: signs and the kinds of things they signify (intend, express or mean), where one term necessarily causes something else to come to the mind. Distinguishing natural signs and conventional signs, the traditional theory of signs (Augustine) sets the following threefold partition of things:\nall sorts of indications, evidences, symptoms, and physical signals, there are signs which are \"always\" signs (the entities of the mind as ideas and images, thoughts and feelings, constructs and intentions); and there are signs that \"have\" to get their signification (as linguistic entities and cultural symbols). So, while natural signs serve as the source of signification, the human mind is the agency through which signs signify naturally occurring things, such as objects, states, qualities, quantities, events, processes, or relationships. Human language and discourse, communication, philosophy, science, logic, mathematics, poetry, theology, and religion are only some of fields of human study and activity where grasping the nature of signs and symbols and patterns of signification may have a decisive value. Communication takes place without words but via the mind as a result of signs and symbols; They communicate/pass across/ messages to the human mind through their pictorial representation.\n\nThe word \"sign\" has a variety of meanings in English, including:\n\nSt. Augustine was the first man who synthesized the classical and Hellenistic theories of signs. For him a sign is a thing which is used to signify other things and to make them come to mind (\"De Doctrina Christiana\" (hereafter DDC) 1.2.2; 2.1.1). The most common signs are spoken and written words (DDC 1.2.2; 2.3.4-2.4.5). Although God cannot be fully expressible, Augustine gave emphasis to the possibility of God’s communication with humans by signs in Scripture (DDC 1.6.6). Augustine endorsed and developed the classical and Hellenistic theories of signs. Among the mainstream in the theories of signs, i.e., that of Aristotle and that of Stoics, the former theory filtered into the works of Cicero (106-43 BC, \"De inventione rhetorica\" 1.30.47-48) and Quintilian (circa 35-100, \"Institutio Oratoria\" 5.9.9-10), which regarded the sign as an instrument of inference. In his commentary on Aristotle’s \"De Interpretatione\", Ammonius said, \"according to the division of the philosopher Theophrastus, the relation of speech is twofold, first in regard to the audience, to which speech signifies something, and secondly in regard to the things about which the speaker intends to persuade the audience.\" If we match DDC with this division, the first part belongs to DDC Book IV and the second part to DDC Books I-III. Augustine, although influenced by these theories, advanced his own theological theory of signs, with whose help one can infer the mind of God from the events and words of Scripture.\n\nBooks II and III of DDC enumerate all kinds of signs and explain how to interpret them. Signs are divided into natural (\"naturalia\") and conventional (\"data\"); the latter is divided into animal (\"bestiae\") and human (\"homines\"); the latter is divided into non-words (\"cetera\") and words (\"verba\"); the latter is divided into spoken words (\"voces\") and written words (\"litterae\"); the latter is divided into unknown signs (\"signa ignota\") and ambiguous signs (\"signa ambigua\"); both the former and the latter are divided respectively into particular signs (\"signa propria\") and figurative signs (\"signa translata\"), among which the unknown figurative signs belong to the pagans.\nIn addition to exegetical knowledge (Quintilian, \"Institutio Oratoria\" 1.4.1-3 and 1.8.1-21) which follows the order of reading (\"lectio\"), textual criticism (\"emendatio\"), explanation (\"enarratio\"), and judgment (\"iudicium\"), one needs to know the original language (Hebrew and Greek) and broad background information on Scripture (DDC 2.9.14-2.40.60).\n\nAugustine’s understanding of signs includes several hermeneutical presuppositions as important factors. First, the interpreter should proceed with humility, because only a humble person can grasp the truth of Scripture (DDC 2.41.62). Second, the interpreter must have a spirit of active inquiry and should not hesitate to learn and use pagan education for the purpose of leading to Christian learning, because all truth is God’s truth (DDC 2.40.60-2.42.63). Third, the heart of interpreter should be founded, rooted, and built up in love which is the final goal of the entire Scriptures (DDC 2.42.63).\n\nThe sign does not function as its own goal, but its purpose lies in its role as a signification (\"res significans\", DDC 3.9.13). God gave signs as a means to reveal himself; Christians need to exercise hermeneutical principles in order to understand that divine revelation. Even if the Scriptural text is obscure, it has meaningful benefits. For the obscure text prevents us from falling into pride, triggers our intelligence (DDC 2.6.7), tempers our faith in the history of revelation (DDC 3.8.12), and refines our mind to be suitable to the holy mysteries (DDC 4.8.22). When interpreting signs, the literal meaning should first be sought, and then the figurative meaning (DDC 3.10.14-3.23.33). Augustine suggests the hermeneutical principle that the obscure Scriptural verse is interpreted with the help of plain and simple verses, which formed the doctrine of \"scriptura scripturae interpres\" (Scripture is the Interpreter of Scripture) in the Reformation Era. Moreover, he introduces the seven rules of Tyconius the Donatist to interpret the obscure meaning of the Bible, which demonstrates his understanding that all truth belongs to God (DDC 3.3.42-3.37.56). In order to apply Augustine's hermeneutics of the sign appropriately in modern times, every division of theology must be involved and interdisciplinary approaches must be taken.\n"}
{"id": "14966929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14966929", "title": "Simulacrum", "text": "Simulacrum\n\nA simulacrum (plural: simulacra from , which means \"likeness, similarity\") is a representation or imitation of a person or thing. The word was first recorded in the English language in the late 16th century, used to describe a representation, such as a statue or a painting, especially of a god. By the late 19th century, it had gathered a secondary association of inferiority: an image without the substance or qualities of the original. Philosopher Fredric Jameson offers photorealism as an example of artistic simulacrum, where a painting is sometimes created by copying a photograph that is itself a copy of the real. Other art forms that play with simulacra include trompe-l'œil, pop art, Italian neorealism, and French New Wave.\n\nSimulacra have long been of interest to philosophers. In his \"Sophist\", Plato speaks of two kinds of image making. The first is a faithful reproduction, attempted to copy precisely the original. The second is intentionally distorted in order to make the copy appear correct to viewers. He gives the example of Greek statuary, which was crafted larger on the top than on the bottom so that viewers on the ground would see it correctly. If they could view it in scale, they would realize it was malformed. This example from the visual arts serves as a metaphor for the philosophical arts and the tendency of some philosophers to distort truth so that it appears accurate unless viewed from the proper angle. Nietzsche addresses the concept of simulacrum (but does not use the term) in the \"Twilight of the Idols\", suggesting that most philosophers, by ignoring the reliable input of their senses and resorting to the constructs of language and reason, arrive at a distorted copy of reality.\n\nPostmodernist French social theorist Jean Baudrillard argues that a simulacrum is not a copy of the real, but becomes truth in its own right: the hyperreal. Where Plato saw two types of representation—faithful and intentionally distorted (simulacrum)—Baudrillard sees four: (1) basic reflection of reality; (2) perversion of reality; (3) pretence of reality (where there is no model); and (4) simulacrum, which \"bears no relation to any reality whatsoever\". In Baudrillard's concept, like Nietzsche's, simulacra are perceived as negative, but another modern philosopher who addressed the topic, Gilles Deleuze, takes a different view, seeing simulacra as the avenue by which an accepted ideal or \"privileged position\" could be \"challenged and overturned\". Deleuze defines simulacra as \"those systems in which different relates to different \"by means of\" difference itself. What is essential is that we find in these systems no \"prior identity\", no \"internal resemblance\"\".\n\nAlain Badiou, in speaking with reference to Nazism about Evil, writes, \"fidelity to a simulacrum, unlike fidelity to an event, regulates its break with the situation not by the universality of the void, but by the closed particularity of an abstract set ... (the 'Germans' or the 'Aryans')\".\n\nRecreational simulacra include reenactments of historical events or replicas of landmarks, such as Colonial Williamsburg and the Eiffel Tower, and constructions of fictional or cultural ideas, such as Fantasyland at The Walt Disney Company's Magic Kingdom. The various Disney parks have by some philosophers been regarded as the ultimate recreational simulacra, with Baudrillard noting that Walt Disney World Resort is a copy of a copy, \"a simulacrum to the second power\". In 1975, Italian author Umberto Eco argued that at Disney's parks, \"we not only enjoy a perfect imitation, we also enjoy the conviction that imitation has reached its apex and afterwards reality will always be inferior to it\". This is for some an ongoing concern. Examining the impact of Disney's simulacrum of national parks, Disney's Wilderness Lodge, environmentalist Jennifer Cypher and anthropologist Eric Higgs expressed worry that \"the boundary between artificiality and reality will become so thin that the artificial will become the centre of moral value\". Eco also refers to commentary on watching sports as sports to the power of three, or sports cubed. First, there are the players who participate in the sport (the real), then the onlookers merely witnessing it, and finally the commentary on the act of witnessing the sport. Visual artist Paul McCarthy has created entire installations based on \"Pirates of the Caribbean\" and theme park simulacra, with videos playing inside the installation.\n\nAn interesting example of simulacrum is caricature. When an artist produces a line drawing that closely approximates the facial features of a real person, the subject of the sketch cannot be easily identified by a random observer; it can be taken for a likeness of any individual. However, a caricaturist exaggerates prominent facial features, and a viewer will pick up on these features and be able to identify the subject, even though the caricature bears far less actual resemblance to the subject.\n\nBeer (1999: p. 11) employs the term \"simulacrum\" to denote the formation of a sign or iconographic image, whether iconic or aniconic, in the landscape or greater field of Thangka art and Tantric Buddhist iconography. For example, an iconographic representation of a cloud formation sheltering a deity in a thanka or covering the auspice of a sacred mountain in the natural environment may be discerned as a simulacrum of an \"auspicious canopy\" (Sanskrit: Chhatra) of the Ashtamangala. Perceptions of religious imagery in natural phenomena approach a cultural universal and may be proffered as evidence of the natural creative spiritual engagement of the experienced environment endemic to the human psychology.\n\nThe Latinised plural \"simulacra\" is interchangeable with the anglicised version \"simulacrums\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7268161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7268161", "title": "Sportswear (activewear)", "text": "Sportswear (activewear)\n\nSportswear or activewear is clothing, including footwear, worn for sport or physical exercise. Or it can be a crop top.\n\nSport-specific clothing is worn for most sports and physical exercise, for practical, comfort or safety reasons.\n\nTypical sport-specific garments include tracksuits, shorts, T-shirts and polo shirts. Specialized garments include swimsuits (for swimming), wet suits (for diving or surfing), ski suits (for skiing) and leotards (for gymnastics). Sports footwear include trainers, football boots, riding boots, and ice skates. Sportswear also includes bikini and some crop tops and\nundergarments, such as the jockstrap and sports bra. Sportswear is also at times worn as casual fashion clothing.\n\nFor most sports the athletes wear a combination of different items of clothing, e.g. sport shoes, pants and shirts. In some sports, protective gear may need to be worn, such as helmets or American football body armour.\n\nSports fabrics are technical materials which help to keep the wearer comfortable during exercise. The type of fabric required will depend upon the intensity of the exercise and the activity. Yoga clothing should use fabrics with good stretch ability for easy movement which will likely require the fabric to be of a knitted construction. Apparel for long distance running will keep the wearer in good comfort if it has excellent moisture wicking properties to enable sweat to transfer from the inside to the outside for the garment. Performance clothing for outdoor sports in the winter or snow sports ought to use breathable fabrics with very good insulating properties.\n\nSportswear is typically designed to be lightweight so as not to encumber the wearer. The best athletic wear for some forms of exercise, for example cycling, should not create drag or be too bulky.\n\nOn the other hand, sportswear should be loose enough so as not to restrict movement. Some sports have specific style requirements, for example the keikogi used in karate. Various physically dangerous sports require protective gear, e.g. for fencing, American football, or ice hockey.\n\nStandardized sportswear may also function as a uniform. In team sports the opposing sides are usually identified by the colors of their clothing, while individual team members can be recognized by a back number on a shirt.\n\nIn some sports, specific items of clothing are worn to differentiate roles within a team. For example, in volleyball, the libero (a specialist in defensive play) wears a different colour to that of their teammates. In sports such as soccer and GAA codes, a contrasting colour or pattern is worn by the goalkeeper. In other sports, clothing may indicate the current status or past achievements of a participant. In cycling disciplines, the rainbow jersey indicates the current world champion, and in major road cycling races, jerseys of particular colours are worn by the race leader and leaders of auxiliary classifications.\n\nSpandex is the preferred material for form-fitting sportswear, such as used in wrestling, track & field, dance, gymnastics, speed skating, and swimming.\n\nSportswear is commonly used as a means for the promotion of sponsors of a sportsperson or team. In some sports, there are regulations limiting the size or design of sponsorship brand names and logos on items of clothing.\n\nSportswear design must consider the thermal insulation needs of the wearer. In hot situations, sportswear should allow the wearer to stay cool; while in cold situations, sportswear should help the wearer to stay warm.\n\nSportswear should also be able to transfer sweat away from the skin, using, for example, moisture transferring fabric. Spandex is a popular material used as base layers to soak up sweat. For example, in activities such as skiing and mountain climbing this is achieved by using layering: moisture transferring (wicking) materials are worn next to the skin, followed by an insulating layer, and then wind and water resistant shell garments.\n\nMoisture-wicking fabrics are a class of hi-tech fabrics that provide moisture control for an athlete's skin. They move perspiration away from the body to the fabric's outer surface where it can evaporate. These fabrics typically are soft, lightweight, and stretchy—in other words, they are perfectly suited for making activewear. Moisture-wicking means that the fabric is absorbent and this can leave a barrier of wet fabric on your skin. Drywicking is the newest variation of moisture wicking. It is a smart two tier fabric that breaks the surface tension of sweat and propels it through the hydrophobic layer into a natural wicking outer layer like cotton where it is assisted by evaporative cooling leaving your skin absolutely dry. Besides the fact that your body can perform better, it will chemically free prevent odors because a bacteria microclimate cannot grow on dry skin. This broad category of fabrics is used to make garments like T-shirts, sports bras, running and cycling jerseys, socks, tracksuits, and polo-style shirts for any physical activity where the goal is to keep your skin as cool and dry as possible. Moisture-wicking fabrics are used to make apparel for outdoor activities such as hiking, fishing, mountain biking, snow skiing, and mountain climbing. Due to the popularity of garments made from these fabrics, more variations are being introduced to the market.\n\nGolf has a long tradition of specialized attire—attire that reflects the tradition of Scottish aristocrats taking in fresh air while walking around the golf course, swinging their golf clubs, and exercising in a refined, genteel sort of way. Golf attire though, is also being influenced by modern fabrics and trends that stress function and durability. Golfers, like athletes in other sports, are athletes first, and public figures second. Athletes in all sports are showing a preference for moisture-wicking fabrics, crisp details, and modern fashionable colors.\n\nAs activewear becomes more fashionable and more popular with consumers, sales have increased. Total U.S. sales of men's and women's activewear rose by 3.2% in the 12 months ending in March 2011 compared with the previous period, to $48.6 billion, according to consumer tracking firm NPD Group Inc. For all of 2011, activewear sales increased 6.7% from 2010, compared with women's apparel gains in 2011 of 3.1%, also according to NPD Group.\n\nSome analysts attribute the growth in sales to an intrinsic change in the way activewear is designed. “Historically, what had been available to women were items based on a men's item that were just made smaller and turned a flattering color like pink,” said Scott Key, senior vice president and general manager of Athleta. “Women athletes expected more.” \n\nSportswear also includes the variety of protective gear required for contact sports such as lacrosse, boxing and ice hockey. Different types of protective equipment are needed depending on the type of sport and position. The types of gears include the following: head gear, gum shields, shin pads, shoulder pads, and joint supports.\n\nHead gear is required for most sports with high risk of head injuries such as American football, bobsledding and cycling. Injuries related to the head have the potential to cause serious damage to the spine and may be life-threatening. Although sports like rugby and boxing do not require participants to wear head protection, trainers or referees may choose to depending on the player’s history of head related injuries. Certain positions of some sports may require different type of protections. For example, goaltenders for ice hockey wear different types of face masks compared to other positions. They also have thick gloves with arm pads and shin guards to protect them from the high impact of pucks. In baseball, catchers and batters wear head gear for protection against the high velocity pitches. Head gear of different kinds must meet the standards of protection set by various organizations. Helmets for American football must be regulated by the National Football League or the National Collegiate Athletics Association. Although new rules of safe play have been in effect, players are still in danger of brain damage due to repeated blows to the head. Football players are more likely to develop brain related disorders during or after their careers compared to other sports.\n\nSports of all types may require eye or face protection depending on the players’ need. Face masks come in different forms for different types of sports. In lacrosse and American football, the masks are metal rods attached to the helmet to cover the face. While optional, face masks that might be seen in basketball or rugby are plastic masks that are usually molded to fit the players’ face. Such masks are worn to minimize additional damage to an already injured part of the face.\n\nEye protection is an additional support provided by sports goggles. Goggles may be worn in lieu of glasses or contacts. Goggles are reliable in the fact that they do not move around while the player is in motion and they protect the eye from foreign objects. For swimmers and divers, goggles keep the water away from their eyes, thus improving visibility.\n\nMouth guards are used in many sports including but not limited to: rugby, lacrosse, boxing, water polo, ice hockey, American football, basketball, field hockey, and various martial arts. Mouth guards reduce the risk of sport related dental injuries. Contact or some team sports have a risk of causing injuries related with the mouth, jaw, teeth and oral soft tissues. Wearing mouth guards are not required in any sports but the players are recommended to.\n\nDifferent types of attire are needed for extreme weather conditions like snow. Thicker coats or jackets, gloves and boots are necessities in the cold. Winter sports such as snowboarding and skiing require the riders and skiers to be properly geared in the snow. Snow jackets differ from casual coats such that they may be packed with extra insulation and thicker coating materials. The insulation is usually made with down, which is the layer of fine feathers from geese or ducks. These feathers are naturally insulated to keep the birds warm in the harsh winter weathers. The feathers trap air inside and keep the body heat from flowing out. Down is also considered to be the highest quality of insulation for jackets. It is light and compressible. Alternative types of insulation are being invented including: synthetic microfibers and polyester-based insulation. These materials perform as well as down if not better and are becoming popular in the markets with the help of major brands using such materials for their equipment.\n\nWinter gear must also be flexible so that it may offer a wide range of movement. An ideal jacket would have enough insulation to be warm but light, it should be made with material that are not restricting. Jackets with down will be light and warm but they tend to be more expensive. Also down jackets usually are not water-resistant. Synthetic insulated jackets, however, are water-resistant and cheaper than down but lose their insulating factors and are heavier.\n\nIn the Olympics, the variety of equipment used contain materials such as aluminum, fiberglass, mineral-based fibers and specialty steel alloys. Skis and snowboards are made up of carbon-fiber, aluminum, titanium and boron-fiber with tungsten alloys. Boots are made with ceramic fibers and steel.\n\n"}
{"id": "28846687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28846687", "title": "Stuxnet", "text": "Stuxnet\n\nStuxnet is a malicious computer worm, first uncovered in 2010. Thought to have been in development since at least 2005, Stuxnet targets SCADA systems and is believed to be responsible for causing substantial damage to Iran's nuclear program. Although neither country has openly admitted responsibility, the worm is believed to be a jointly built American/Israeli cyberweapon.\n\nStuxnet specifically targets programmable logic controllers (PLCs), which allow the automation of electromechanical processes such as those used to control machinery on factory assembly lines, amusement rides, or centrifuges for separating nuclear material. Exploiting four zero-day flaws, Stuxnet functions by targeting machines using the Microsoft Windows operating system and networks, then seeking out Siemens Step7 software. Stuxnet reportedly compromised Iranian PLCs, collecting information on industrial systems and causing the fast-spinning centrifuges to tear themselves apart. Stuxnet’s design and architecture are not domain-specific and it could be tailored as a platform for attacking modern supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) and PLC systems (e.g., in factory assembly lines or power plants), the majority of which reside in Europe, Japan and the US. Stuxnet reportedly ruined almost one fifth of Iran's nuclear centrifuges. Targeting industrial control systems, the worm infected over 200,000 computers and caused 1,000 machines to physically degrade.\n\nStuxnet has three modules: a worm that executes all routines related to the main payload of the attack; a link file that automatically executes the propagated copies of the worm; and a rootkit component responsible for hiding all malicious files and processes, preventing detection of the presence of Stuxnet. It is typically introduced to the target environment via an infected USB flash drive, thereby crossing any air gap. The worm then propagates across the network, scanning for Siemens Step7 software on computers controlling a PLC. In the absence of either criterion, Stuxnet becomes dormant inside the computer. If both the conditions are fulfilled, Stuxnet introduces the infected rootkit onto the PLC and Step7 software, modifying the codes and giving unexpected commands to the PLC while returning a loop of normal operations system values feedback to the users.\n\nIn 2015, Kaspersky Lab noted that the Equation Group had used two of the same zero-day attacks, prior to their use in Stuxnet, and commented that: \"the similar type of usage of both exploits together in different computer worms, at around the same time, indicates that the Equation Group and the Stuxnet developers are either the same or working closely together\".\n\nStuxnet, discovered by Sergey Ulasen, initially spread via Microsoft Windows, and targeted Siemens industrial control systems. While it is not the first time that hackers have targeted industrial systems, nor the first publicly known intentional act of cyberwarfare to be implemented, it is the first discovered malware that spies on and subverts industrial systems, and the first to include a programmable logic controller (PLC) rootkit.\n\nThe worm initially spreads indiscriminately, but includes a highly specialized malware payload that is designed to target only Siemens supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems that are configured to control and monitor specific industrial processes. Stuxnet infects PLCs by subverting the Step-7 software application that is used to reprogram these devices.\n\nDifferent variants of Stuxnet targeted five Iranian organizations, with the probable target widely suspected to be uranium enrichment infrastructure in Iran; Symantec noted in August 2010 that 60% of the infected computers worldwide were in Iran. Siemens stated that the worm has not caused any damage to its customers, but the Iran nuclear program, which uses embargoed Siemens equipment procured secretly, has been damaged by Stuxnet. Kaspersky Lab concluded that the sophisticated attack could only have been conducted \"with nation-state support\". F-Secure's chief researcher Mikko Hyppönen, when asked if possible nation-state support was involved, agreed \"That's what it would look like, yes\".\n\nIn May 2011, the PBS program \"Need To Know\" cited a statement by Gary Samore, White House Coordinator for Arms Control and Weapons of Mass Destruction, in which he said, \"we're glad they [the Iranians] are having trouble with their centrifuge machine and that we – the US and its allies – are doing everything we can to make sure that we complicate matters for them\", offering \"winking acknowledgement\" of US involvement in Stuxnet. According to \"The Daily Telegraph\", a showreel that was played at a retirement party for the head of the Israel Defense Forces (IDF), Gabi Ashkenazi, included references to Stuxnet as one of his operational successes as the IDF chief of staff.\n\nOn 1 June 2012, an article in \"The New York Times\" said that Stuxnet is part of a US and Israeli intelligence operation called \"Operation Olympic Games\", started under President George W. Bush and expanded under President Barack Obama.\n\nOn 24 July 2012, an article by Chris Matyszczyk from CNET reported how the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran e-mailed F-Secure's chief research officer Mikko Hyppönen to report a new instance of malware.\n\nOn 25 December 2012, an Iranian semi-official news agency announced there was a cyberattack by Stuxnet, this time on the industries in the southern area of the country. The virus targeted a power plant and some other industries in Hormozgan province in recent months.\n\nAccording to expert Eugene Kaspersky, the worm also infected a nuclear power plant in Russia. Kaspersky noted, however, that since the power plant is not connected to the public Internet, the system should remain safe.\n\nThe worm was at first identified by the security company VirusBlokAda in mid-June 2010. Journalist Brian Krebs's blog posting on 15 July 2010 was the first widely read report on the worm. The original name given by VirusBlokAda was \"Rootkit.Tmphider\"; Symantec however called it \"W32.Temphid\", later changing to \"W32.Stuxnet\". Its current name is derived from a combination of some keywords in the software (\".stub\" and \"mrxnet.sys\"). The reason for the discovery at this time is attributed to the virus accidentally spreading beyond its intended target (the Natanz plant) due to a programming error introduced in an update; this led to the worm spreading to an engineer's computer that had been connected to the centrifuges, and spreading further when the engineer returned home and connected his computer to the internet.\n\nKaspersky Lab experts at first estimated that Stuxnet started spreading around March or April 2010, but the first variant of the worm appeared in June 2009. On 15 July 2010, the day the worm's existence became widely known, a distributed denial-of-service attack was made on the servers for two leading mailing lists on industrial-systems security. This attack, from an unknown source but likely related to Stuxnet, disabled one of the lists and thereby interrupted an important source of information for power plants and factories. On the other hand, researchers at Symantec have uncovered a version of the Stuxnet computer virus that was used to attack Iran's nuclear program in November 2007, being developed as early as 2005, when Iran was still setting up its uranium enrichment facility.\n\nThe second variant, with substantial improvements, appeared in March 2010, apparently because its authors believed that Stuxnet was not spreading fast enough; a third, with minor improvements, appeared in April 2010. The worm contains a component with a build time-stamp from 3 February 2010. In the United Kingdom on 25 November 2010, Sky News reported that it had received information from an anonymous source at an unidentified IT security organization that Stuxnet, or a variation of the worm, had been traded on the black market.\n\nA study of the spread of Stuxnet by Symantec showed that the main affected countries in the early days of the infection were Iran, Indonesia and India:\nIran was reported to have \"beefed up\" its cyberwar capabilities following the Stuxnet attack, and has been suspected of retaliatory attacks against US banks.\n\nUnlike most malware, Stuxnet does little harm to computers and networks that do not meet specific configuration requirements; \"The attackers took great care to make sure that only their designated targets were hit... It was a marksman's job.\" While the worm is promiscuous, it makes itself inert if Siemens software is not found on infected computers, and contains safeguards to prevent each infected computer from spreading the worm to more than three others, and to erase itself on 24 June 2012.\n\nFor its targets, Stuxnet contains, among other things, code for a man-in-the-middle attack that fakes industrial process control sensor signals so an infected system does not shut down due to detected abnormal behavior. Such complexity is very unusual for malware. The worm consists of a layered attack against three different systems:\n\n\nStuxnet attacked Windows systems using an unprecedented four zero-day attacks (plus the CPLINK vulnerability and a vulnerability used by the Conficker worm). It is initially spread using infected removable drives such as USB flash drives, which contain Windows shortcut files to initiate executable code. The worm then uses other exploits and techniques such as peer-to-peer RPC to infect and update other computers inside private networks that are not directly connected to the Internet. The number of zero-day exploits used is unusual, as they are highly valued and malware creators do not typically make use of (and thus simultaneously make visible) four different zero-day exploits in the same worm. Amongst these exploits were remote code execution on a computer with Printer Sharing enabled, and the LNK/PIF vulnerability, in which file execution is accomplished when an icon is viewed in Windows Explorer; negating the need for user interaction. Stuxnet is unusually large at half a megabyte in size, and written in several different programming languages (including C and C++) which is also irregular for malware. The Windows component of the malware is promiscuous in that it spreads relatively quickly and indiscriminately.\n\nThe malware has both user-mode and kernel-mode rootkit capability under Windows, and its device drivers have been digitally signed with the private keys of two certificates that were stolen from separate well-known companies, JMicron and Realtek, both located at Hsinchu Science Park in Taiwan. The driver signing helped it install kernel-mode rootkit drivers successfully without users being notified, and therefore it remained undetected for a relatively long period of time. Both compromised certificates have been revoked by Verisign.\n\nTwo websites in Denmark and Malaysia were configured as command and control servers for the malware, allowing it to be updated, and for industrial espionage to be conducted by uploading information. Both of these domain names have subsequently been redirected by their DNS service provider to Dynadot as part of a global effort to disable the malware.\n\nAccording to researcher Ralph Langner, once installed on a Windows system Stuxnet infects project files belonging to Siemens' WinCC/PCS 7 SCADA control software (Step 7), and subverts a key communication library of WinCC called codice_1. Doing so intercepts communications between the WinCC software running under Windows and the target Siemens PLC devices that the software is able to configure and program when the two are connected via a data cable. In this way, the malware is able to install itself on PLC devices unnoticed, and subsequently to mask its presence from WinCC if the control software attempts to read an infected block of memory from the PLC system.\n\nThe malware furthermore used a zero-day exploit in the WinCC/SCADA database software in the form of a hard-coded database password.\n\nThe entirety of the Stuxnet code has not yet been disclosed, but its payload targets only those SCADA configurations that meet criteria that it is programmed to identify.\n\nStuxnet requires specific slave variable-frequency drives (frequency converter drives) to be attached to the targeted Siemens S7-300 system and its associated modules. It only attacks those PLC systems with variable-frequency drives from two specific vendors: Vacon based in Finland and Fararo Paya based in Iran. Furthermore, it monitors the frequency of the attached motors, and only attacks systems that spin between 807 Hz and 1,210 Hz. The industrial applications of motors with these parameters are diverse, and may include pumps or gas centrifuges.\n\nStuxnet installs malware into memory block DB890 of the PLC that monitors the Profibus messaging bus of the system. When certain criteria are met, it periodically modifies the frequency to 1,410 Hz and then to 2 Hz and then to 1,064 Hz, and thus affects the operation of the connected motors by changing their rotational speed. It also installs a rootkit – the first such documented case on this platform – that hides the malware on the system and masks the changes in rotational speed from monitoring systems.\n\nSiemens has released a detection and removal tool for Stuxnet. Siemens recommends contacting customer support if an infection is detected and advises installing Microsoft updates for security vulnerabilities and prohibiting the use of third-party USB flash drives. Siemens also advises immediately upgrading password access codes.\n\nThe worm's ability to reprogram external PLCs may complicate the removal procedure. Symantec's Liam O'Murchu warns that fixing Windows systems may not completely solve the infection; a thorough audit of PLCs may be necessary. Despite speculation that incorrect removal of the worm could cause damage, Siemens reports that in the first four months since discovery, the malware was successfully removed from the systems of 22 customers without any adverse impact.\n\nPrevention of control system security incidents, such as from viral infections like Stuxnet, is a topic that is being addressed in both the public and the private sector.\n\nThe US Department of Homeland Security National Cyber Security Division (NCSD) operates the Control System Security Program (CSSP). The program operates a specialized computer emergency response team called the Industrial Control Systems Cyber Emergency Response Team (ICS-CERT), conducts a biannual conference (), provides training, publishes recommended practices, and provides a self-assessment tool. As part of a Department of Homeland Security plan to improve American computer security, in 2008 it and the Idaho National Laboratory (INL) worked with Siemens to identify security holes in the company's widely used Process Control System 7 (PCS 7) and its software Step 7. In July 2008, INL and Siemens publicly announced flaws in the control system at a Chicago conference; Stuxnet exploited these holes in 2009.\n\nSeveral industry organizations and professional societies have published standards and best practice guidelines providing direction and guidance for control system end-users on how to establish a control system security management program. The basic premise that all of these documents share is that prevention requires a multi-layered approach, often referred to as \"defense-in-depth\". The layers include policies and procedures, awareness and training, network segmentation, access control measures, physical security measures, system hardening, e.g., patch management, and system monitoring, anti-virus and intrusion prevention system (IPS). The standards and best practices also all recommend starting with a risk analysis and a control system security assessment.\n\nExperts believe that Stuxnet required the largest and costliest development effort in malware history. Developing its many capabilities would have required a team of highly capable programmers, in-depth knowledge of industrial processes, and an interest in attacking industrial infrastructure. Eric Byres, who has years of experience maintaining and troubleshooting Siemens systems, told \"Wired\" that writing the code would have taken many man-months, if not man-years. Symantec estimates that the group developing Stuxnet would have consisted of anywhere from five to thirty people, and would have taken six months to prepare. \"The Guardian\", the BBC and \"The New York Times\" all claimed that (unnamed) experts studying Stuxnet believe the complexity of the code indicates that only a nation-state would have the capabilities to produce it. The self-destruct and other safeguards within the code implied that a Western government was responsible, or at least is responsible in the development of it. Software security expert Bruce Schneier initially condemned the 2010 news coverage of Stuxnet as hype, however, stating that it was almost entirely based on speculation. But after subsequent research, Schneier stated in 2012 that \"we can now conclusively link Stuxnet to the centrifuge structure at the Natanz nuclear enrichment lab in Iran\".\n\nRalph Langner, the researcher who identified that Stuxnet infected PLCs, first speculated publicly in September 2010 that the malware was of Israeli origin, and that it targeted Iranian nuclear facilities. However Langner more recently, in a TED Talk recorded in February 2011, stated that, \"My opinion is that the Mossad is involved, but that the leading force is not Israel. The leading force behind Stuxnet is the cyber superpower – there is only one; and that's the United States.\" Kevin Hogan, Senior Director of Security Response at Symantec, reported that the majority of infected systems were in Iran (about 60%), which has led to speculation that it may have been deliberately targeting \"high-value infrastructure\" in Iran including either the Bushehr Nuclear Power Plant or the Natanz nuclear facility. Langner called the malware \"a one-shot weapon\" and said that the intended target was probably hit, although he admitted this was speculation. Another German researcher and spokesman of the German-based Chaos Computer Club, Frank Rieger, was the first to speculate that Natanz was the target.\n\nAccording to the Israeli newspaper \"Haaretz\", in September 2010 experts on Iran and computer security specialists were increasingly convinced that Stuxnet was meant \"to sabotage the uranium enrichment facility at Natanz – where the centrifuge operational capacity had dropped over the past year by 30 percent.\" On 23 November 2010 it was announced that uranium enrichment at Natanz had ceased several times because of a series of major technical problems. A \"serious nuclear accident\" (supposedly the shutdown of some of its centrifuges) occurred at the site in the first half of 2009, which is speculated to have forced the head of Iran's Atomic Energy Organization Gholam Reza Aghazadeh to resign. Statistics published by the Federation of American Scientists (FAS) show that the number of enrichment centrifuges operational in Iran mysteriously declined from about 4,700 to about 3,900 beginning around the time the nuclear incident WikiLeaks mentioned would have occurred. The Institute for Science and International Security (ISIS) suggests, in a report published in December 2010, that Stuxnet is a reasonable explanation for the apparent damage at Natanz, and may have destroyed up to 1,000 centrifuges (10 percent) sometime between November 2009 and late January 2010. The authors conclude:\n\nThe ISIS report further notes that Iranian authorities have attempted to conceal the breakdown by installing new centrifuges on a large scale.\n\nThe worm worked by first causing an infected Iranian IR-1 centrifuge to increase from its normal operating speed of 1,064 hertz to 1,410 hertz for 15 minutes before returning to its normal frequency. Twenty-seven days later, the worm went back into action, slowing the infected centrifuges down to a few hundred hertz for a full 50 minutes. The stresses from the excessive, then slower, speeds caused the aluminium centrifugal tubes to expand, often forcing parts of the centrifuges into sufficient contact with each other to destroy the machine.\n\nAccording to \"The Washington Post\", IAEA cameras installed in the Natanz facility recorded the sudden dismantling and removal of approximately 900–1,000 centrifuges during the time the Stuxnet worm was reportedly active at the plant. Iranian technicians, however, were able to quickly replace the centrifuges and the report concluded that uranium enrichment was likely only briefly disrupted.\n\nOn 15 February 2011, the Institute for Science and International Security released a report concluding that:\nThe Associated Press reported that the semi-official Iranian Students News Agency released a statement on 24 September 2010 stating that experts from the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran met in the previous week to discuss how Stuxnet could be removed from their systems. According to analysts, such as David Albright, Western intelligence agencies had been attempting to sabotage the Iranian nuclear program for some time.\n\nThe head of the Bushehr Nuclear Power Plant told Reuters that only the personal computers of staff at the plant had been infected by Stuxnet and the state-run newspaper \"Iran Daily\" quoted Reza Taghipour, Iran's telecommunications minister, as saying that it had not caused \"serious damage to government systems\". The Director of Information Technology Council at the Iranian Ministry of Industries and Mines, Mahmud Liaii, has said that: \"An electronic war has been launched against Iran... This computer worm is designed to transfer data about production lines from our industrial plants to locations outside Iran.\"\n\nIn response to the infection, Iran assembled a team to combat it. With more than 30,000 IP addresses affected in Iran, an official said that the infection was fast spreading in Iran and the problem had been compounded by the ability of Stuxnet to mutate. Iran had set up its own systems to clean up infections and had advised against using the Siemens SCADA antivirus since it is suspected that the antivirus was actually embedded with codes which update Stuxnet instead of eradicating it.\n\nAccording to Hamid Alipour, deputy head of Iran's government Information Technology Company, \"The attack is still ongoing and new versions of this virus are spreading.\" He reported that his company had begun the cleanup process at Iran's \"sensitive centres and organizations.\" \"We had anticipated that we could root out the virus within one to two months, but the virus is not stable, and since we started the cleanup process three new versions of it have been spreading\", he told the Islamic Republic News Agency on 27 September 2010.\n\nOn 29 November 2010, Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad stated for the first time that a computer virus had caused problems with the controller handling the centrifuges at its Natanz facilities. According to Reuters, he told reporters at a news conference in Tehran, \"They succeeded in creating problems for a limited number of our centrifuges with the software they had installed in electronic parts.\"\n\nOn the same day two Iranian nuclear scientists were targeted in separate, but nearly simultaneous car bomb attacks near Shahid Beheshti University in Tehran. Majid Shahriari, a quantum physicist was killed. Fereydoon Abbasi, a high-ranking official at the Ministry of Defense was seriously wounded. \"Wired\" speculated that the assassinations could indicate that whoever was behind Stuxnet felt that it was not sufficient to stop the nuclear program. That same \"Wired\" article suggested the Iranian government could have been behind the assassinations. In January 2010, another Iranian nuclear scientist, a physics professor at Tehran University, was killed in a similar bomb explosion. On 11 January 2012, a Director of the Natanz nuclear enrichment facility, Mostafa Ahmadi Roshan, was killed in an attack quite similar to the one that killed Shahriari.\n\nAn analysis by the FAS demonstrates that Iran’s enrichment capacity grew during 2010. The study indicated that Iran’s centrifuges appeared to be performing 60% better than in the previous year, which would significantly reduce Tehran’s time to produce bomb-grade uranium. The FAS report was reviewed by an official with the IAEA who affirmed the study.\n\nEuropean and US officials, along with private experts told Reuters that Iranian engineers were successful in neutralizing and purging Stuxnet from their country's nuclear machinery.\n\nGiven the growth in Iranian enrichment capability in 2010, the country may have intentionally put out misinformation to cause Stuxnet's creators to believe that the worm was more successful in disabling the Iranian nuclear program than it actually was.\n\nIsrael, through Unit 8200, has been speculated to be the country behind Stuxnet in many media reports and by experts such as Richard A. Falkenrath, former Senior Director for Policy and Plans within the US Office of Homeland Security. Yossi Melman, who covers intelligence for the Israeli daily newspaper \"Haaretz\" and is writing a book about Israeli intelligence, also suspected that Israel was involved, noting that Meir Dagan, the former (up until 2011) head of the national intelligence agency Mossad, had his term extended in 2009 because he was said to be involved in important projects. Additionally, Israel now expects that Iran will have a nuclear weapon in 2014 or 2015 – at least three years later than earlier estimates – without the need for an Israeli military attack on Iranian nuclear facilities; \"They seem to know something, that they have more time than originally thought\", he added. Israel has not publicly commented on the Stuxnet attack but confirmed that cyberwarfare is now among the pillars of its defense doctrine, with a military intelligence unit set up to pursue both defensive and offensive options. When questioned whether Israel was behind the virus in the fall of 2010, some Israeli officials broke into \"wide smiles\", fueling speculation that the government of Israel was involved with its genesis. American presidential advisor Gary Samore also smiled when Stuxnet was mentioned, although American officials have indicated that the virus originated abroad. According to \"The Telegraph\", Israeli newspaper \"Haaretz\" reported that a video celebrating operational successes of Gabi Ashkenazi, retiring IDF Chief of Staff, was shown at his retirement party and included references to Stuxnet, thus strengthening claims that Israel's security forces were responsible.\n\nIn 2009, a year before Stuxnet was discovered, Scott Borg of the United States Cyber-Consequences Unit (US-CCU) suggested that Israel might prefer to mount a cyber-attack rather than a military strike on Iran's nuclear facilities. And, in late 2010 Borg stated, \"Israel certainly has the ability to create Stuxnet and there is little downside to such an attack because it would be virtually impossible to prove who did it. So a tool like Stuxnet is Israel's obvious weapon of choice.\" Iran uses P-1 centrifuges at Natanz, the design for which A. Q. Khan stole in 1976 and took to Pakistan. His black market nuclear-proliferation network sold P-1s to, among other customers, Iran. Experts believe that Israel also somehow acquired P-1s and tested Stuxnet on the centrifuges, installed at the Dimona facility that is part of its own nuclear program. The equipment may be from the United States, which received P-1s from Libya's former nuclear program.\n\nSome have also referred to several clues in the code such as a concealed reference to the word \"MYRTUS\", believed to refer to the Myrtle tree, or Hadassah in Hebrew. Hadassah was the birth name of the former Jewish queen of Persia, Queen Esther. However, it may be that the \"MYRTUS\" reference is simply a misinterpreted reference to SCADA components known as \"RTUs\" (Remote Terminal Units) and that this reference is actually \"My RTUs\"–a management feature of SCADA. Also, the number 19790509 appears once in the code and might refer to the date \"1979 May 09\", the day Habib Elghanian, a Persian Jew, was executed in Tehran. Another date that appears in the code is \"24 September 2007\", the day that Iran's president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad spoke at Columbia University and made comments questioning the validity of the Holocaust. Such data is not conclusive, since, as noted by Symantec, \"...attackers would have the natural desire to implicate another party\".\n\nThere has also been testimony on the involvement of the United States and its collaboration with Israel, with one report stating that \"there is vanishingly little doubt that [it] played a role in creating the worm.\" It has been reported that the United States, under one of its most secret programs, initiated by the Bush administration and accelerated by the Obama administration, has sought to destroy Iran's nuclear program by novel methods such as undermining Iranian computer systems. A diplomatic cable obtained by WikiLeaks showed how the United States was advised to target Iran's nuclear capabilities through 'covert sabotage'. A New York Times article as early as January 2009 credited a then unspecified program with preventing an Israeli military attack on Iran where some of the efforts focused on ways to destabilize the centrifuges. A \"Wired\" article claimed that Stuxnet \"is believed to have been created by the United States\".\n\nThe fact that John Bumgarner, a former intelligence officer and member of the United States Cyber-Consequences Unit (US-CCU), published an article prior to Stuxnet being discovered or deciphered, that outlined a strategic cyber strike on centrifuges and suggests that cyber attacks are permissible against nation states which are operating uranium enrichment programs that violate international treaties gives some credibility to these claims. Bumgarner pointed out that the centrifuges used to process fuel for nuclear weapons are a key target for \"cybertage\" operations and that they can be made to destroy themselves by manipulating their rotational speeds.\n\nIn a March 2012 interview with \"60 Minutes\", retired US Air Force General Michael Hayden – who served as director of both the Central Intelligence Agency and National Security Agency – while denying knowledge of who created Stuxnet said that he believed it had been \"a good idea\" but that it carried a downside in that it had legitimized the use of sophisticated cyber weapons designed to cause physical damage. Hayden said, \"There are those out there who can take a look at this... and maybe even attempt to turn it to their own purposes\". In the same report, Sean McGurk, a former cybersecurity official at the Department of Homeland Security noted that the Stuxnet source code could now be downloaded online and modified to be directed at new target systems. Speaking of the Stuxnet creators, he said, \"They opened the box. They demonstrated the capability... It's not something that can be put back.\"\n\nIn April 2011 Iranian government official Gholam Reza Jalali stated that an investigation had concluded that the United States and Israel were behind the Stuxnet attack. Frank Rieger stated that three European countries' intelligence agencies agreed that Stuxnet was a joint United States-Israel effort. The code for the Windows injector and the PLC payload differ in style, likely implying collaboration. Other experts believe that a US-Israel cooperation is unlikely because \"the level of trust between the two countries’ intelligence and military establishments is not high.\"\n\nA Wired magazine article about US General Keith B. Alexander stated: \"And he and his cyber warriors have already launched their first attack. The cyber weapon that came to be known as Stuxnet was created and built by the NSA in partnership with the CIA and Israeli intelligence in the mid-2000s.\"\n\nChina, Jordan, and France are other possibilities, and Siemens may have also participated. Langner speculated that the infection may have spread from USB drives belonging to Russian contractors since the Iranian targets were not accessible via the Internet.\n\nSandro Gaycken from the Free University Berlin argued that the attack on Iran was a ruse to distract from Stuxnet's real purpose. According to him, its broad dissemination in more than 100,000 industrial plants worldwide suggests a field test of a cyber weapon in different security cultures, testing their preparedness, resilience, and reactions, all highly valuable information for a cyberwar unit.\n\nThe United Kingdom has denied involvement in the worm's creation.\n\nStratfor Documents released by Wikileaks suggest that the International Security Firm 'Stratfor' believe that Israel is behind Stuxnet – \"But we can't assume that because they did Stuxnet that they are capable of doing this blast as well\".\n\nIn July 2013, Edward Snowden claimed that Stuxnet was cooperatively developed by the United States and Israel.\n\nAccording to a report by Reuters, the NSA also tried to sabotage North Korea's nuclear program using a version of Stuxnet. The operation was reportedly launched in tandem with the attack that targeted Iranian centrifuges in 2009–10. The North Korean nuclear program shares many similarities with the Iranian, both having been developed with technology transferred by Pakistani nuclear scientist A.Q. Khan. The effort failed, however, because North Korea's extreme secrecy and isolation made it impossible to introduce Stuxnet into the nuclear facility.\n\nA November 2013 article in Foreign Policy magazine claims existence of an earlier, much more sophisticated attack on the centrifuge complex at Natanz, focused on increasing centrifuge failure rate over a long time period by stealthily inducing uranium hexafluoride gas overpressure incidents. This malware was capable of spreading only by being physically installed, probably by previously contaminated field equipment used by contractors working on Siemens control systems within the complex. It is not clear whether this attack attempt was successful, but it being followed by a different, simpler and more conventional attack is indicative.\n\nOn 1 September 2011, a new worm was found, thought to be related to Stuxnet. The Laboratory of Cryptography and System Security (CrySyS) of the Budapest University of Technology and Economics analyzed the malware, naming the threat Duqu. Symantec, based on this report, continued the analysis of the threat, calling it \"nearly identical to Stuxnet, but with a completely different purpose\", and published a detailed technical paper. The main component used in Duqu is designed to capture information such as keystrokes and system information. The exfiltrated data may be used to enable a future Stuxnet-like attack. On 28 December 2011, Kaspersky Lab's director of global research and analysis spoke to Reuters about recent research results showing that the platform Stuxnet and Duqu both originated from in 2007, and is being referred to as Tilded due to the ~d at the beginning of the file names. Also uncovered in this research was the possibility for three more variants based on the Tilded platform.\n\nIn May 2012, the new malware \"Flame\" was found, thought to be related to Stuxnet. Researchers named the program \"Flame\" after the name of one of its modules. After analysing the code of Flame, Kaspersky Lab said that there is a strong relationship between Flame and Stuxnet. An early version of Stuxnet contained code to propagate infections via USB drives that is nearly identical to a Flame module that exploits the same vulnerability.\n\nIn December 2017 it was reported that the safety systems of an unidentified power station, believed to be in Saudi Arabia, were compromised, when the Triconex industrial safety technology made by Schneider Electric SE was targeted, in what is believed to have been a state sponsored attack. The computer security company Symantec claimed that the malware, known as \"Triton\", exploited a vulnerability in computers running the Microsoft Windows operating system.\n\nSince 2010, there has been extensive international media coverage on Stuxnet and its aftermath. In early commentary, \"The Economist\" pointed out that Stuxnet was \"a new kind of cyber-attack.\" On 8 July 2011, \"Wired\" then published an article detailing how network security experts were able to decipher the origins of Stuxnet. In that piece, Kim Zetter claimed that Stuxnet's \"cost–benefit ratio is still in question.\" Later commentators tended to focus on the strategic significance of Stuxnet as a cyber weapon. Following the Wired piece, Holger Stark called Stuxnet the \"first digital weapon of geopolitical importance, it could change the way wars are fought.\" Meanwhile, Eddie Walsh referred to Stuxnet as \"the world's newest high-end asymmetric threat.\" Ultimately, some claim that the \"extensive media coverage afforded to Stuxnet has only served as an advertisement for the vulnerabilities used by various cybercriminal groups.\" While that may be the case, the media coverage has also increased awareness of cyber security threats.\n\nAlex Gibney's 2016 documentary \"Zero Days\" covers the phenomenon around Stuxnet.\n\nIn 2016 it was revealed that General James Cartwright, the former head of the U.S. Strategic Command, had leaked information related to Stuxnet. He later pleaded guilty for lying to FBI agents pursuing an investigation into the leak. On 17 January 2017, he was granted a full pardon in this case by President Obama, thereby expunging his conviction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16822744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16822744", "title": "Te Paepae-ki-Rarotonga", "text": "Te Paepae-ki-Rarotonga\n\nIn Māori tradition, Te Paepae-ki-Rarotonga was one of the great ocean-going, voyaging canoes that was used in the migrations that settled New Zealand. \"Te Paepae-ki-Rarotonga\" was captained by Waitaha-ariki-kore and is said to have landed near Matatā.\n\nWaitaha-Ariki-Kore pulled down his house in Rarotonga and used it to build his waka \"Te Paepae-o-Rarotonga\".\n\nHe was guided to Aotearoa by two taniwha and made first landfall at the Rurima Islands. He approached the islands at speed and on striking them caused them to break apart. At Rurima he sought water at the spring which bears his name.\n\nFrom Rurima he then crossed to the mainland landing at Te Awa o te Atua, near Matata, before proceeding past Otaramuturangi to Te Kohika. From here he travelled to the inland of the Bay of Plenty.\n\nNgatiawa expressly state that \"Te Paepae-o-Rarotonga\" arrived before the coming of \"Mātaatua\", and it is said to have been a very tapu craft; hence the place where it lay (The canoe is said to be lying, buried, at Tara-o-muturangi) was used as a burial-place.\n\nWaiataha-ariki-kore married Hineteariki of Hapuoneone who had her pā at Otamarakau and inland to Waitahanui. Their daughter was Hahuru the mother of Tuwharetoa i te Aupouri.\n\nAccording to Colonel Gudgeon, the Rarotongan natives have a tradition concerning a canoe called \"Te Paepae-o-Rarotonga\".\n\n"}
{"id": "143377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=143377", "title": "Ted Bundy", "text": "Ted Bundy\n\nTheodore Robert Bundy (born Theodore Robert Cowell; November 24, 1946 – January 24, 1989) was an American serial killer, kidnapper, rapist, burglar, and necrophile who assaulted and murdered numerous young women and girls during the 1970s and possibly earlier. Shortly before his execution and after more than a decade of denials, he confessed to 30 homicides that he committed in seven states between 1974 and 1978. The true number of victims is unknown and possibly higher.\n\nMany of Bundy's young female victims regarded him as handsome and charismatic, which were traits that he exploited to win their trust. He would typically approach them in public places, feigning injury or disability, or impersonating an authority figure, before overpowering and assaulting them at more secluded locations. He sometimes revisited his secondary crime scenes for hours at a time, grooming and performing sexual acts with the decomposing corpses until putrefaction and destruction by wild animals made further interaction impossible. He decapitated at least 12 of his victims, and for a period of time, he kept some of the severed heads as mementos in his apartment. On a few occasions, he simply broke into dwellings at night and bludgeoned his victims as they slept.\n\nIn 1975, Bundy was jailed for the first time when he was incarcerated in Utah for aggravated kidnapping and attempted criminal assault. He then became a suspect in a progressively longer list of unsolved homicides in multiple states. Facing murder charges in Colorado, he engineered two dramatic escapes and committed further assaults, including three murders, before his ultimate recapture in Florida in 1978. For the Florida homicides, he received three death sentences in two separate trials.\n\nBundy was executed in the electric chair at Florida State Prison on January 24, 1989. Biographer Ann Rule described Bundy as \"a sadistic sociopath who took pleasure from another human's pain and the control he had over his victims, to the point of death, and even after\". He once called himself \"the most cold-hearted son of a bitch you'll ever meet\"; Attorney Polly Nelson—a member of his last defense team—wrote: \"Ted was the very definition of heartless evil.\"\n\nBundy was born Theodore Robert Cowell on November 24, 1946, to Eleanor Louise Cowell (known for most of her life as Louise) at the Elizabeth Lund Home for Unwed Mothers in Burlington, Vermont. His father's identity was never determined with any degree of certainty. His birth certificate assigned paternity to a salesman and Air Force veteran named Lloyd Marshall, but Louise later claimed that she had been seduced by \"a sailor\" whose name may have been Jack Worthington. Years later, investigators would find no record of anyone by that name in Navy or Merchant Marine archives. Some family members expressed suspicions that Bundy might have been fathered by Louise's own violent, abusive father, Samuel Cowell, but no material evidence has ever been cited to support or refute this.\n\nFor the first three years of his life, Bundy lived in the Philadelphia home of his maternal grandparents, Samuel and Eleanor Cowell, who raised him as their son to avoid the social stigma that accompanied birth outside of wedlock at the time. Family, friends, and even young Ted were told that his grandparents were his parents and that his mother was his older sister. He eventually discovered the truth, although he had varied recollections of the circumstances. He told a girlfriend that a cousin showed him a copy of his birth certificate after calling him a \"bastard\", but he told biographers Stephen Michaud and Hugh Aynesworth that he found the certificate himself. Biographer and true crime writer Ann Rule, who knew Bundy personally, believed that he did not find out until 1969, when he located his original birth record in Vermont. Bundy expressed a lifelong resentment toward his mother for never talking to him about his real father, and for leaving him to discover his true parentage for himself.\n\nIn some interviews, Bundy spoke warmly of his grandparents and told Rule that he \"identified with\", \"respected\", and \"clung to\" his grandfather. In 1987, however, he and other family members told attorneys that Samuel Cowell was a tyrannical bully and a bigot who hated blacks, Italians, Catholics, and Jews. Bundy's grandfather beat his wife and the family dog and swung neighborhood cats by their tails. He once threw Louise's younger sister Julia down a flight of stairs for oversleeping. He sometimes spoke aloud to unseen presences, and at least once he flew into a violent rage when the question of Ted's paternity was raised. Bundy described his grandmother as a timid and obedient woman who periodically underwent electroconvulsive therapy for depression and feared to leave their house toward the end of her life. Ted occasionally exhibited disturbing behavior, even at that early age. Julia recalled awakening one day from a nap to find herself surrounded by knives from the Cowell kitchen; her three-year-old nephew was standing by the bed, smiling.\n\nIn 1950, Louise abruptly changed her surname from Cowell to Nelson, and at the urging of multiple family members, she left Philadelphia with her son to live with cousins Alan and Jane Scott in Tacoma, Washington. In 1951 Louise met Johnny Culpepper Bundy, a hospital cook, at an adult singles night at Tacoma's First Methodist Church. They married later that year and Johnny Bundy formally adopted Ted. Johnny and Louise conceived four children of their own, and although Johnny tried to include his adoptive son in camping trips and other family activities, Ted remained distant. He later complained to his girlfriend that Johnny wasn't his real father, \"wasn't very bright\", and \"didn't make much money.\"\n\nBundy had different recollections of Tacoma when he spoke to his biographers. When he talked to Michaud and Aynesworth, he described how he roamed his neighborhood, picking through trash barrels in search of pictures of naked women. When he spoke to Polly Nelson, he explained how he perused detective magazines, crime novels, and true crime documentaries for stories that involved sexual violence, particularly when the stories were illustrated with pictures of dead or maimed bodies. In a letter to Rule, he asserted that he \"never, ever read fact-detective magazines, and shuddered at the thought [that anyone would]\". In his conversation with Michaud, he described how he would consume large quantities of alcohol and \"canvass the community\" late at night in search of undraped windows where he could observe women undressing, or \"whatever [else] could be seen.\"\n\nBundy also varied the accounts of his social life. He told Michaud and Aynesworth that he \"chose to be alone\" as an adolescent because he was unable to understand interpersonal relationships. He claimed that he had no natural sense of how to develop friendships. \"I didn't know what made people want to be friends,\" he said. \"I didn't know what underlay social interactions.\" Classmates from Woodrow Wilson High School told Rule, however, that Bundy was \"well known and well liked\" there, \"a medium-sized fish in a large pond\".\n\nSnow skiing was Bundy's only significant athletic avocation; he enthusiastically pursued the activity by using stolen equipment and forged lift tickets.\n\nDuring high school, he was arrested at least twice on suspicion of burglary and auto theft. When he reached age 18, the details of the incidents were expunged from his record, which is customary in Washington State and most other states.\n\nAfter graduating from high school in 1965, Bundy spent a year at the University of Puget Sound (UPS) before he transferred to the University of Washington (UW) in 1966 to study Chinese. In 1967, he became romantically involved with a UW classmate who is identified by several pseudonyms in Bundy biographies, most commonly Stephanie Brooks. In early 1968 he dropped out of college and worked at a series of minimum-wage jobs. He also volunteered at the Seattle office of Nelson Rockefeller's presidential campaign and in August attended the 1968 Republican National Convention in Miami as a Rockefeller delegate. Shortly thereafter Brooks ended their relationship and returned to her family home in California, frustrated by what she described as Bundy's immaturity and lack of ambition. Psychiatrist Dorothy Lewis would later pinpoint this crisis as \"probably the pivotal time in his development\". Devastated by Brooks's rejection, Bundy traveled to Colorado and then farther east, visiting relatives in Arkansas and Philadelphia and enrolling for one semester at Temple University. It was at this time in early 1969, Rule believes, that Bundy visited the office of birth records in Burlington and confirmed his true parentage.\n\nBundy was back in Washington in the fall of 1969 when he met Elizabeth Kloepfer (identified in Bundy literature as Meg Anders, Beth Archer, or Liz Kendall), a divorcée from Ogden, Utah. She worked as a secretary at the University of Washington School of Medicine. Their stormy relationship would continue well past his initial incarceration in Utah in 1976.\n\nIn mid-1970, Bundy was now focused and goal oriented, and he re-enrolled at UW, this time as a psychology major. He became an honor student and was well regarded by his professors. In 1971, he took a job at Seattle's Suicide Hotline Crisis Center, where he met and worked alongside Ann Rule. Rule was a former Seattle police officer and aspiring crime writer who would later write one of the definitive Bundy biographies, \"The Stranger Beside Me\". She saw nothing disturbing in Bundy's personality at the time and described him as \"kind, solicitous, and empathetic\".\n\nAfter graduating from UW in 1972, Bundy joined Governor Daniel J. Evans' re-election campaign. Posing as a college student, he shadowed Evans' opponent, former governor Albert Rosellini, and recorded his stump speeches for analysis by Evans' team. After Evans was re-elected, Bundy was hired as an assistant to Ross Davis, Chairman of the Washington State Republican Party. Davis thought well of Bundy and described him as \"smart, aggressive ... and a believer in the system\". In early 1973, Bundy was accepted into the law schools of UPS and the University of Utah despite mediocre Law School Admission Test scores. He got in on the strength of letters of recommendation from Evans, Davis, and several UW psychology professors.\n\nDuring a trip to California on Republican Party business in the summer of 1973, Bundy rekindled his relationship with Brooks, who marveled at his transformation into a serious, dedicated professional who was seemingly on the cusp of a distinguished legal and political career. He continued to date Kloepfer as well, and neither woman was aware of the other's existence. In the fall of 1973, Bundy matriculated at UPS Law School and continued courting Brooks, who flew to Seattle several times to stay with him. They discussed marriage; at one point he introduced her to Davis as his fiancée. In January 1974, however, he abruptly broke off all contact; her phone calls and letters went unreturned. Finally reaching him by phone a month later, Brooks demanded to know why Bundy had unilaterally ended their relationship without explanation. In a flat, calm voice, he replied, \"Stephanie, I have no idea what you mean\" and hung up. She never heard from him again. He later explained, \"I just wanted to prove to myself that I could have married her\"; but Brooks concluded in retrospect that he had deliberately planned the entire courtship and rejection in advance as vengeance for the breakup she initiated in 1968.\n\nBy then, Bundy had begun skipping classes at law school; by April, he had stopped attending entirely, as young women began to disappear in the Pacific Northwest. The year the murders began, he was the assistant director of the Seattle Crime Prevention Advisory Commission and wrote a pamphlet for women on rape prevention. Bundy joked with local newsmen that after his eight weeks in Salt Lake City’s jail system, before being released on bail, he had a beneficial experience for studying the law, thus giving him new insights for improving the criminal justice system. His first order of action was to focus on addressing the bail‐bond system and improving it.\n\nThere is no consensus on when or where Bundy began killing women. He told different stories to different people and refused to divulge the specifics of his earliest crimes, even as he confessed in graphic detail to dozens of later murders in the days preceding his execution. He told Nelson that he attempted his first kidnapping in 1969 in Ocean City, New Jersey, but did not kill anyone until sometime in 1971 in Seattle. He told psychologist Art Norman that he killed two women in Atlantic City in 1969 while visiting family in Philadelphia. He hinted but refused to elaborate to homicide detective Robert D. Keppel that he committed a murder in Seattle in 1972, and another murder in 1973 that involved a hitchhiker near Tumwater. Rule and Keppel both believed that he might have started killing as a teenager. Circumstantial evidence suggested that he abducted and killed 8-year-old Ann Marie Burr of Tacoma when he was 14 years old in 1961; this was an allegation that he repeatedly denied. His earliest documented homicides were committed in 1974 when he was 27 years old. By his own admission, he had mastered the necessary skills—in the era before DNA profiling—to leave minimal incriminating forensic evidence at the crime scene.\n\nShortly after midnight on January 4, 1974 (around the time that he terminated his relationship with Brooks), Bundy entered the basement apartment of 18-year-old Karen Sparks (identified as Joni Lenz, Mary Adams, or Terri Caldwell by various sources), a dancer and student at UW. After bludgeoning the sleeping woman senseless with a metal rod from her bed frame, he sexually assaulted her with either the same rod, or a metal speculum, causing extensive internal injuries. She remained unconscious for 10 days, but survived with permanent physical and mental disabilities. In the early morning hours of February 1, Bundy broke into the basement room of Lynda Ann Healy, a UW undergraduate who broadcast morning radio weather reports for skiers. He beat her unconscious, dressed her in blue jeans, a white blouse, and boots, and carried her away.\n\nDuring the first half of 1974, female college students disappeared at the rate of about one per month. On March 12, Donna Gail Manson, a 19-year-old student at The Evergreen State College in Olympia, southwest of Seattle, left her dormitory to attend a jazz concert on campus, but never arrived. On April 17, Susan Elaine Rancourt disappeared while on her way to her dorm room after an evening advisers meeting at Central Washington State College in Ellensburg, east-southeast of Seattle. Two female Central Washington students later came forward to report encounters—one on the night of Rancourt's disappearance, the other three nights earlier—with a man wearing an arm sling, asking for help carrying a load of books to his brown or tan Volkswagen Beetle. On May 6, Roberta Kathleen Parks left her dormitory at Oregon State University in Corvallis, south of Portland, to have coffee with friends at the Memorial Union, but never arrived.\n\nDetectives from the King County and Seattle police departments grew increasingly concerned. There was no significant physical evidence, and the missing women had little in common, apart from being young, attractive, white college students with long hair parted in the middle. On June 1, Brenda Carol Ball, 22, disappeared after leaving the Flame Tavern in Burien, near Seattle–Tacoma International Airport. She was last seen in the parking lot, talking to a brown-haired man with his arm in a sling. In the early hours of June 11, UW student Georgann Hawkins vanished while walking down a brightly lit alley between her boyfriend's dormitory residence and her sorority house. The next morning, three Seattle homicide detectives and a criminalist combed the entire alleyway on their hands and knees, finding nothing. After Hawkins's disappearance was publicized, witnesses came forward to report seeing a man that night who was in an alley behind a nearby dormitory; he was on crutches with a leg cast and was struggling to carry a briefcase. One woman recalled that the man asked her to help him carry the case to his car, a light brown Volkswagen Beetle.\n\nDuring this period, Bundy was working in Olympia at the Department of Emergency Services (DES), a state government agency involved in the search for the missing women. There, he met and dated Carole Ann Boone, a twice-divorced mother of two who, six years later, would play an important role in the final phase of his life.\nReports of the six missing women and Sparks' brutal beating appeared prominently in newspapers and on television throughout Washington and Oregon. Fear spread among the population; hitchhiking by young women dropped sharply. Pressure mounted on law enforcement agencies, but the paucity of physical evidence severely hampered them. Police could not provide reporters with the little information that was available for fear of compromising the investigation. Further similarities between the victims were noted: The disappearances all took place at night, usually near ongoing construction work, within a week of midterm or final exams; all of the victims were wearing slacks or blue jeans; and at most crime scenes, there were sightings of a man wearing a cast or a sling, and driving a brown or tan Volkswagen Beetle.\n\nThe Pacific Northwest murders culminated on July 14, with the broad daylight abductions of two women from a crowded beach at Lake Sammamish State Park in Issaquah, a suburb east of Seattle. Five female witnesses described an attractive young man wearing a white tennis outfit with his left arm in a sling, speaking with a light accent, perhaps Canadian or British. Introducing himself as \"Ted,\" he asked their help in unloading a sailboat from his tan or bronze-colored Volkswagen Beetle. Four refused; one accompanied him as far as his car, saw that there was no sailboat, and fled. Three additional witnesses saw him approach Janice Anne Ott, 23, a probation case worker at the King County Juvenile Court, with the sailboat story, and watched her leave the beach in his company. About four hours later, Denise Marie Naslund, a 19-year-old woman who was studying to become a computer programmer, left a picnic to go to the restroom and never returned. Bundy told Stephen Michaud that Ott was still alive when he returned with Naslund—and that he forced one to watch as he murdered the other—but he later denied it in an interview with Lewis on the eve of his execution.\n\nThe King County police were finally provided with a detailed description of the suspect and his car when they posted fliers throughout the Seattle area. A composite sketch was printed in regional newspapers and broadcast on local television stations. Elizabeth Kloepfer, Ann Rule, a DES employee, and a UW psychology professor all recognized the profile, the sketch, and the car, and reported Bundy as a possible suspect; but detectives—who were receiving up to 200 tips per day—thought it unlikely that a clean-cut law student with no adult criminal record could be the perpetrator.\n\nOn September 6, two grouse hunters stumbled across the skeletal remains of Ott and Naslund near a service road in Issaquah, east of Lake Sammamish State Park. An extra femur and several vertebrae found at the site were later identified by Bundy as Georgann Hawkins'. Six months later, forestry students from Green River Community College discovered the skulls and mandibles of Healy, Rancourt, Parks, and Ball on Taylor Mountain, where Bundy frequently hiked, just east of Issaquah. Manson's remains were never recovered.\n\nIn August 1974, Bundy received a second acceptance from the University of Utah Law School and moved to Salt Lake City, leaving Kloepfer in Seattle. While he called Kloepfer often, he dated \"at least a dozen\" other women. When he studied the first-year law curriculum a second time, \"he was devastated to find out that the other students had something, some intellectual capacity, that he did not. He found the classes completely incomprehensible. 'It was a great disappointment to me,' he said.\"\n\nA new string of homicides began the following month, including two that would remain undiscovered until Bundy confessed to them shortly before his execution. On September 2, he raped and strangled a still-unidentified hitchhiker in Idaho, then either disposed of the remains immediately in a nearby river, or returned the next day to photograph and dismember On October 2, he seized 16-year-old Nancy Wilcox in Holladay, a suburb of Salt Lake City, and dragged her into a wooded area, intending to \"de-escalate\" his pathological urges, he claimed, by raping and then releasing her; but he strangled her—accidentally, he said—in the process of trying to silence her screams. Her remains were buried near Capitol Reef National Park, some south of Holladay, but were never found.\n\nOn October 18, Melissa Anne Smith—the 17-year-old daughter of the police chief of Midvale (another Salt Lake City suburb)—disappeared after leaving a pizza parlor. Her nude body was found in a nearby mountainous area nine days later. Postmortem examination indicated that she may have remained alive for up to seven days following her disappearance. On October 31, Laura Ann Aime, also 17, disappeared south in Lehi after leaving a café just after midnight. Her naked body was found by hikers to the northeast in American Fork Canyon on Thanksgiving Day. Both women had been beaten, raped, sodomized, and strangled with nylon stockings. Years later, Bundy described his postmortem rituals with the corpses of Smith and Aime, including hair shampooing and application of makeup.\n\nIn the late afternoon of November 8, Bundy approached 18-year-old telephone operator Carol DaRonch at Fashion Place Mall in Murray, less than a mile from the Midvale restaurant where Melissa Smith was last seen. He identified himself as \"Officer Roseland\" of the Murray Police Department and told DaRonch that someone had attempted to break into her car. He asked her to accompany him to the station to file a complaint. When DaRonch pointed out to Bundy that he was driving on a road that did not lead to the police station, he immediately pulled to the shoulder and attempted to handcuff her. During their struggle, he inadvertently fastened both handcuffs to the same wrist, and DaRonch was able to open the car door and escape. Later that evening, Debra Jean Kent, a 17-year-old student at Viewmont High School in Bountiful, north of Murray, disappeared after leaving a theater production at the school to pick up her brother. The school's drama teacher and a student told police that \"a stranger\" had asked each of them to come out to the parking lot to identify a car. Another student later saw the same man pacing in the rear of the auditorium, and the drama teacher spotted him again shortly before the end of the play. Outside the auditorium, investigators found a key that unlocked the handcuffs removed from Carol DaRonch's wrist.\n\nIn November, Elizabeth Kloepfer called King County police a second time after she read that young women were now disappearing in towns surrounding Salt Lake City. Detective Randy Hergesheimer of the Major Crimes division interviewed her in detail. By then, Bundy had risen considerably on the King County hierarchy of suspicion, but the Lake Sammamish witness considered most reliable by detectives failed to identify him from a photo lineup. In December, Kloepfer called the Salt Lake County Sheriff's Office and repeated her suspicions. Bundy's name was added to their list of suspects, but at that time no credible evidence linked him to the Utah crimes. In January 1975 Bundy returned to Seattle after his final exams and spent a week with Kloepfer, who did not tell him that she had reported him to police on three separate occasions. She made plans to visit him in Salt Lake City in August.\n\nIn 1975, Bundy shifted much of his criminal activity eastward, from his base in Utah to Colorado. On January 12, a 23-year-old registered nurse named Caryn Eileen Campbell disappeared while walking down a well-lit hallway between the elevator and her room at the Wildwood Inn (now the Wildwood Lodge) in Snowmass Village, southeast of Salt Lake City. Her nude body was found a month later next to a dirt road just outside the resort. She had been killed by blows to her head from a blunt instrument that left distinctive linear grooved depressions on her skull; her body also bore deep cuts from a sharp weapon. northeast of Snowmass, on March 15, Vail ski instructor Julie Cunningham, 26, disappeared while walking from her apartment to a dinner date with a friend. Bundy later told Colorado investigators that he approached Cunningham on crutches and asked her to help carry his ski boots to his car, where he clubbed and handcuffed her, then assaulted and strangled her at a secondary site near Rifle, west of Vail. Weeks later, he made the six-hour drive from Salt Lake City to revisit her remains.\n\nDenise Lynn Oliverson, 25, disappeared near the Utah–Colorado border in Grand Junction on April 6 while riding her bicycle to her parents' house; her bike and sandals were found under a viaduct near a railroad bridge. On May 6, Bundy lured 12-year-old Lynette Dawn Culver from Alameda Junior High School in Pocatello, Idaho, north of Salt Lake City. He drowned and then sexually assaulted her in his hotel room, before disposing of her body in a river north of Pocatello (possibly the Snake).\n\nIn mid-May, three of Bundy's Washington State DES coworkers, including Carole Ann Boone, visited him in Salt Lake City and stayed for a week in his apartment. Bundy subsequently spent a week in Seattle with Kloepfer in early June and they discussed getting married the following Christmas. Again, Kloepfer made no mention of her multiple discussions with the King County Police and Salt Lake County Sheriff's Office, and Bundy disclosed neither his ongoing relationship with Boone nor a concurrent romance with a Utah law student known in various accounts as Kim Andrews or Sharon Auer.\n\nOn June 28, Susan Curtis vanished from the campus of Brigham Young University in Provo, south of Salt Lake City. Curtis's murder became Bundy's last confession, tape-recorded moments before he entered the execution chamber. The bodies of Wilcox, Kent, Cunningham, Culver, Curtis, and Oliverson were never recovered.\n\nIn August or September 1975, Bundy was baptized into The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, although he was not an active participant in services and ignored most church restrictions. He would later be excommunicated by the LDS Church following his 1976 kidnapping conviction. When asked his religious preference after his arrest, Bundy answered \"Methodist\", the religion of his childhood.\n\nIn Washington state, investigators were still struggling to analyze the Pacific Northwest murder spree that had ended as abruptly as it had begun. In an effort to make sense of an overwhelming mass of data, they resorted to the then-innovative strategy of compiling a database. They used the King County payroll computer, a \"huge, primitive machine\" by contemporary standards, but the only one available for their use. After inputting the many lists they had compiled—classmates and acquaintances of each victim, Volkswagen owners named \"Ted\", known sex offenders, and so on—they queried the computer for coincidences. Out of thousands of names, 26 turned up on four separate lists; one was Ted Bundy. Detectives also manually compiled a list of their 100 \"best\" suspects, and Bundy was on that list as well. He was \"literally at the top of the pile\" of suspects when word came from Utah of his arrest.\n\nOn August 16, 1975, Bundy was arrested by a Utah Highway Patrol officer in Granger (another Salt Lake City suburb). The officer had observed Bundy cruising a residential area in the pre-dawn hours; Bundy fled the area at high speed after seeing the patrol car. The officer searched the car after he noticed that the Volkswagen's front passenger seat had been removed and placed on the rear seats. He found a ski mask, a second mask fashioned from pantyhose, a crowbar, handcuffs, trash bags, a coil of rope, an ice pick, and other items initially assumed to be burglary tools. Bundy explained that the ski mask was for skiing, he had found the handcuffs in a dumpster, and the rest were common household items. However, Detective Jerry Thompson remembered a similar suspect and car description from the November 1974 DaRonch kidnapping, which matched Bundy's name from Kloepfer's December 1974 phone call. In a search of Bundy's apartment, police found a guide to Colorado ski resorts with a checkmark by the Wildwood Inn and a brochure that advertised the Viewmont High School play in Bountiful, where Debra Kent had disappeared. The police did not have sufficient evidence to detain Bundy, and he was released on his own recognizance. Bundy later said that searchers missed a collection of Polaroid photographs of his victims; he destroyed the photographs after he was released.\n\nSalt Lake City police placed Bundy on 24-hour surveillance, and Thompson flew to Seattle with two other detectives to interview Kloepfer. She told them that in the year prior to Bundy's move to Utah, she had discovered objects that she \"couldn't understand\" in her house and in Bundy's apartment. These items included crutches, a bag of plaster of Paris that he admitted stealing from a medical supply house, and a meat cleaver that was never used for cooking. Additional objects included surgical gloves, an Oriental knife in a wooden case that he kept in his glove compartment, and a sack full of women's clothing. Bundy was perpetually in debt, and Kloepfer suspected that he had stolen almost everything of significant value that he possessed. When she confronted him over a new TV and stereo, he warned her, \"If you tell anyone, I'll break your fucking neck.\" She said Bundy became \"very upset\" whenever she considered cutting her hair, which was long and parted in the middle. She would sometimes awaken in the middle of the night to find him under the bed covers with a flashlight, examining her body. He kept a lug wrench, taped halfway up the handle, in the trunk of her car—another Volkswagen Beetle, which he often borrowed—\"for protection\". The detectives confirmed that Bundy had not been with Kloepfer on any of the nights during which the Pacific Northwest victims had vanished, nor on the day Ott and Naslund were abducted. Shortly thereafter, Kloepfer was interviewed by Seattle homicide detective Kathy McChesney, and learned of the existence of Stephanie Brooks and her brief engagement to Bundy around Christmas 1973.\n\nIn September, Bundy sold his Volkswagen Beetle to a Midvale teenager. Utah police impounded it, and FBI technicians dismantled and searched it. They found hairs matching samples obtained from Caryn Campbell's body. Later, they also identified hair strands \"microscopically indistinguishable\" from those of Melissa Smith and Carol DaRonch. FBI lab specialist Robert Neill concluded that the presence of hair strands in one car matching three different victims who had never met one another would be \"a coincidence of mind-boggling rarity\".\n\nOn October 2, detectives put Bundy into a lineup. DaRonch immediately identified him as \"Officer Roseland\". In the same lineup, witnesses from Bountiful picked him as the stranger who lurked about the high school auditorium. There was insufficient evidence to link him to Debra Kent (whose body was never found), but more than enough evidence to charge him with aggravated kidnapping and attempted criminal assault in the DaRonch case. He was freed on $15,000 bail, paid by his parents, and spent most of the time between indictment and trial in Seattle, living in Kloepfer's house. Seattle police had insufficient evidence to charge him in the Pacific Northwest murders, but kept him under close surveillance. \"When Ted and I stepped out on the porch to go somewhere,\" Kloepfer wrote, \"so many unmarked police cars started up that it sounded like the beginning of the Indy 500.\"\n\nIn November, the three principal Bundy investigators—Jerry Thompson from Utah, Robert Keppel from Washington, and Michael Fisher from Colorado—met in Aspen, Colorado and exchanged information with 30 detectives and prosecutors from five states. While officials left the meeting (later known as the Aspen Summit) convinced that Bundy was the murderer they sought, they agreed that more hard evidence would be needed before he could be charged with any of the murders.\n\nOn February 23, 1976, Bundy stood trial for the DaRonch kidnapping. On the advice of his attorney, John O'Connell, Bundy waived his right to a jury due to the negative publicity surrounding the case. On March 1, after a four-day bench trial and a weekend of deliberation, Judge Stewart Hanson Jr. found him guilty of kidnapping and assault. On June 30, he was sentenced to serve a minimum of one to a maximum of 15 years in the Utah State Prison. In October, he was found hiding in bushes in the prison yard carrying an \"escape kit\"—road maps, airline schedules, and a social security card—and spent several weeks in solitary confinement. Later that month, Colorado authorities charged him with Caryn Campbell's murder. After a period of resistance, he waived extradition proceedings and was transferred to Aspen in January 1977.\n\nOn June 7, 1977, Bundy was transported from the Garfield County jail in Glenwood Springs to Pitkin County Courthouse in Aspen for a preliminary hearing. He had elected to serve as his own attorney, and as such, was excused by the judge from wearing handcuffs or leg shackles. During a recess, he asked to visit the courthouse's law library to research his case. Bundy was concealed behind a bookcase when he opened a window and jumped from the second story, spraining his right ankle as he landed. After shedding an outer layer of clothing he walked through Aspen as roadblocks were being set up on its outskirts, then hiked southward onto Aspen Mountain. Near its summit he broke into a hunting cabin and stole food, clothing, and a rifle. The following day he left the cabin and continued south toward the town of Crested Butte, but became lost in the forest. For two days he wandered aimlessly on the mountain, missing two trails that led downward to his intended destination. On June 10, he broke into a camping trailer on Maroon Lake, south of Aspen, taking food and a ski parka; but instead of continuing southward, he walked back north toward Aspen, eluding roadblocks and search parties along the way. Three days later, he stole a car at the edge of Aspen Golf Course. Cold, sleep-deprived, and in constant pain from his sprained ankle, he drove back into Aspen, where two police officers noticed his car weaving in and out of its lane and pulled him over. He had been a fugitive for six days. In the car were maps of the mountain area around Aspen that prosecutors were using to demonstrate the location of Caryn Campbell's body (as his own attorney, Bundy had rights of discovery), indicating that his escape was not a spontaneous act, but had been planned.\nBack in jail in Glenwood Springs, Bundy ignored the advice of friends and legal advisors to stay put. The case against him, already weak at best, was deteriorating steadily as pretrial motions consistently resolved in his favor and significant bits of evidence were ruled inadmissible. \"A more rational defendant might have realized that he stood a good chance of acquittal, and that beating the murder charge in Colorado would probably have dissuaded other prosecutors ... with as little as a year and a half to serve on the DaRonch conviction, had Ted persevered, he could have been a free man.\" Instead, Bundy assembled a new escape plan. He acquired a detailed floor plan of the jail and a hacksaw blade from other inmates, and accumulated $500 in cash, smuggled in over a six-month period, he later said, by visitors—Carole Ann Boone in particular. During the evenings, while other prisoners were showering, he sawed a hole about one foot (0.30 m) square between the steel reinforcing bars in his cell's ceiling and, having lost , was able to wriggle through it into the crawl space above. In the weeks that followed he made a series of practice runs, exploring the space. Multiple reports from an informant of movement within the ceiling during the night were not investigated.\n\nBy late 1977, Bundy's impending trial had become a cause célèbre in the small town of Aspen, and Bundy filed a motion for a change of venue to Denver. On December 23 the Aspen trial judge granted the request—but to Colorado Springs, where juries had historically been hostile to murder suspects. On the night of December 30, with most of the jail staff on Christmas break and nonviolent prisoners on furlough with their families, Bundy piled books and files in his bed, covered them with a blanket to simulate his sleeping body, and climbed into the crawlspace. He broke through the ceiling into the apartment of the chief jailer—who was out for the evening with his wife—changed into street clothes from the jailer's closet, and walked out the front door to freedom.\n\nAfter stealing a car, Bundy drove eastward out of Glenwood Springs, but the car soon broke down in the mountains on Interstate 70. A passing motorist gave him a ride into Vail, to the east. From there he caught a bus to Denver, where he boarded a morning flight to Chicago. In Glenwood Springs, the jail's skeleton crew did not discover the escape until noon on December 31, more than 17 hours later. By then Bundy was already in Chicago.\n\nFrom Chicago, Bundy traveled by train to Ann Arbor, Michigan. There, on January 2 in a local tavern, he watched his alma mater UW defeat Michigan in the Rose Bowl. Five days later he stole a car and drove to Atlanta, where he boarded a bus and arrived in Tallahassee, Florida, on the morning of January 8. He rented a room under the alias Chris Hagen at a boarding house near the Florida State University (FSU) campus. Bundy later said that he initially resolved to find legitimate employment and refrain from further criminal activity, knowing he could probably remain free and undetected in Florida indefinitely as long as he did not attract the attention of police; but his lone job application, at a construction site, had to be abandoned when he was asked to produce identification. He reverted to his old habits of shoplifting and stealing credit cards from women's wallets left in shopping carts.\n\nIn the early hours of January 15, 1978—one week after his arrival in Tallahassee—Bundy entered FSU's Chi Omega sorority house through a rear door with a faulty locking mechanism. Beginning at about 2:45 a.m. he bludgeoned Margaret Bowman, 21, with a piece of oak firewood as she slept, then garroted her with a nylon stocking. He then entered the bedroom of 20-year-old Lisa Levy and beat her unconscious, strangled her, tore one of her nipples, bit deeply into her left buttock, and sexually assaulted her with a hair mist bottle. In an adjoining bedroom he attacked Kathy Kleiner, breaking her jaw and deeply lacerating her shoulder; and Karen Chandler, who suffered a concussion, broken jaw, loss of teeth, and a crushed finger. Tallahassee detectives later determined that the four attacks took place in a total of less than 15 minutes, within earshot of more than 30 witnesses who heard nothing. After leaving the sorority house, Bundy broke into a basement apartment eight blocks away and attacked FSU student Cheryl Thomas, dislocating her shoulder and fracturing her jaw and skull in five places. She was left with permanent deafness, and equilibrium damage that ended her dance career. On Thomas's bed, police found a semen stain and a pantyhose \"mask\" containing two hairs \"similar to Bundy's in class and characteristic\".\nOn February 8, Bundy drove east to Jacksonville, in a stolen FSU van. In a parking lot he approached 14-year-old Leslie Parmenter, the daughter of Jacksonville Police Department's Chief of Detectives, identifying himself as \"Richard Burton, Fire Department\", but retreated when Parmenter's older brother arrived and challenged him. That afternoon, he backtracked westward to Lake City. At Lake City Junior High School the following morning, 12-year-old Kimberly Diane Leach was summoned to her homeroom by a teacher to retrieve a forgotten purse; she never returned to class. Seven weeks later, after an intensive search, her partially mummified remains were found in a pig farrowing shed near Suwannee River State Park, northwest of Lake City.\n\nOn February 12, with insufficient cash to pay his overdue rent and a growing suspicion that police were closing in on him, Bundy stole a car and fled Tallahassee, driving westward across the Florida Panhandle. Three days later, at around 1:00 a.m., he was stopped by Pensacola police officer David Lee near the Alabama state line after a \"wants and warrants\" check showed his Volkswagen Beetle was stolen. When told he was under arrest, Bundy kicked Lee's legs out from under him and took off running. Lee fired a warning shot followed by a second round, gave chase and tackled him. The two struggled over Lee's gun before the officer finally subdued and arrested Bundy. In the stolen vehicle were three sets of IDs belonging to female FSU students, 21 stolen credit cards and a stolen television set. Also found were a pair of dark-rimmed non-prescription glasses and a pair of plaid slacks, later identified as the disguise worn by \"Richard Burton, Fire Department\" in Jacksonville. As Lee transported his suspect to jail, unaware that he had just arrested one of the FBI Ten Most Wanted Fugitives, he heard Bundy say, \"I wish you had killed me.\"\n\nFollowing a change of venue to Miami, Bundy stood trial for the Chi Omega homicides and assaults in June 1979. The trial was covered by 250 reporters from five continents and was the first to be televised nationally in the United States. Despite the presence of five court-appointed attorneys, Bundy again handled much of his own defense. From the beginning, he \"sabotaged the entire defense effort out of spite, distrust, and grandiose delusion\", Nelson later wrote. \"Ted [was] facing murder charges, with a possible death sentence, and all that mattered to him apparently was that he be in charge.\"\n\nAccording to Mike Minerva, a Tallahassee public defender and member of the defense team, a pre-trial plea bargain was negotiated in which Bundy would plead guilty to killing Levy, Bowman and Leach in exchange for a firm 75-year prison sentence. Prosecutors were amenable to a deal, by one account, because \"prospects of losing at trial were very good.\" Bundy, on the other hand, saw the plea deal not only as a means of avoiding the death penalty, but also as a \"tactical move\": he could enter his plea, then wait a few years for evidence to disintegrate or become lost and for witnesses to die, move on, or retract their testimony. Once the case against him had deteriorated beyond repair, he could file a post-conviction motion to set aside the plea and secure an acquittal. At the last minute, however, Bundy refused the deal. \"It made him realize he was going to have to stand up in front of the whole world and say he was guilty\", Minerva said. \"He just couldn't do it.\"\n\nAt trial, crucial testimony came from Chi Omega sorority members Connie Hastings, who placed Bundy in the vicinity of the Chi Omega House that evening, and Nita Neary, who saw him leaving the sorority house clutching the oak murder weapon. Incriminating physical evidence included impressions of the bite wounds Bundy had inflicted on Lisa Levy's left buttock, which forensic odontologists Richard Souviron and Lowell Levine matched to castings of Bundy's teeth. The jury deliberated for less than seven hours before convicting him on July 24, 1979, of the Bowman and Levy murders, three counts of attempted first degree murder (for the assaults on Kleiner, Chandler and Thomas) and two counts of burglary. Trial judge Edward Cowart imposed death sentences for the murder convictions.\n\nSix months later, a second trial took place in Orlando, for the abduction and murder of Kimberly Leach. Bundy was found guilty once again, after less than eight hours' deliberation, due principally to the testimony of an eyewitness who saw him leading Leach from the schoolyard to his stolen van. Important material evidence included clothing fibers with an unusual manufacturing error, found in the van and on Leach's body, which matched fibers from the jacket Bundy was wearing when he was arrested.\n\nDuring the penalty phase of the trial, Bundy took advantage of an obscure Florida law providing that a marriage declaration in court, in the presence of a judge, constituted a legal marriage. As he was questioning former Washington State DES coworker Carole Ann Boone—who had moved to Florida to be near Bundy, had testified on his behalf during both trials, and was again testifying on his behalf as a character witness—he asked her to marry him. She accepted, and Bundy declared to the court that they were legally married.\n\nOn February 10, 1980, Bundy was sentenced for a third time to death by electrocution. As the sentence was announced, he reportedly stood and shouted, \"Tell the jury they were wrong!\" This third death sentence would be the one ultimately carried out nearly nine years later.\n\nIn October 1982, Boone gave birth to a daughter and named Bundy as the father. While conjugal visits were not allowed at Raiford Prison, inmates were known to pool their money in order to bribe guards to allow them intimate time alone with their female visitors.\n\nShortly after the conclusion of the Leach trial and the beginning of the long appeals process that followed, Bundy initiated a series of interviews with Stephen Michaud and Hugh Aynesworth. Speaking mostly in third person to avoid \"the stigma of confession\", he began for the first time to divulge details of his crimes and thought processes.\n\nHe recounted his career as a thief, confirming Kloepfer's long-time suspicion that he had shoplifted virtually everything of substance that he owned. \"The big payoff for me,\" he said, \"was actually \"possessing\" whatever it was I had stolen. I really enjoyed having something ... that I had wanted and gone out and taken.\" Possession proved to be an important motive for rape and murder as well. Sexual assault, he said, fulfilled his need to \"totally possess\" his victims. At first, he killed his victims \"as a matter of expediency ... to eliminate the possibility of [being] caught\"; but later, murder became part of the \"adventure\". \"The \"ultimate\" possession was, in fact, the taking of the life\", he said. \"And then ... the physical possession of the remains.\"\n\nBundy also confided in Special Agent William Hagmaier of the FBI Behavioral Analysis Unit. Hagmaier was struck by the \"deep, almost mystical satisfaction\" that Bundy took in murder. \"He said that after a while, murder is not just a crime of lust or violence\", Hagmaier related. \"It becomes possession. They are part of you ... [the victim] becomes a part of you, and you [two] are forever one ... and the grounds where you kill them or leave them become sacred to you, and you will always be drawn back to them.\" Bundy told Hagmaier that he considered himself to be an \"amateur\", an \"impulsive\" killer in his early years, before moving into what he termed his \"prime\" or \"predator\" phase at about the time of Lynda Healy's murder in 1974. This implied that he began killing well before 1974—though he never explicitly admitted doing so.\n\nIn July 1984, Raiford guards found two hacksaw blades that Bundy had hidden in his cell. A steel bar in one of the cell's windows had been sawed completely through at the top and bottom and glued back into place with a homemade soap-based adhesive. Several months later, guards found an unauthorized mirror hidden in the cell, and Bundy was again moved to a different cell .\n\nSometime during this period, Bundy was attacked by a group of his fellow death row inmates. Though he denied having been assaulted, a number of inmates confessed to the crime, characterized by one source as a \"gang rape\". Shortly thereafter, he was charged with a disciplinary infraction for unauthorized correspondence with another high-profile criminal, John Hinckley, Jr. In October 1984, Bundy contacted Robert Keppel and offered to share his self-proclaimed expertise in serial killer psychology in the ongoing hunt for his successor in Washington, the Green River Killer. Keppel and Green River Task Force detective Dave Reichert interviewed Bundy, but Gary Leon Ridgway remained at large for a further 17 years. Keppel published a detailed documentation of the Green River interviews, and later collaborated with Michaud on another examination of the interview material. Bundy coined the nickname \"The Riverman\" for Gary Ridgway, which was later used for the title of Keppel's book, \"The Riverman: Ted Bundy and I Hunt for the Green River Killer\".\n\nIn early 1986, an execution date (March 4) was set on the Chi Omega convictions; the Supreme Court issued a brief stay, but the execution was quickly rescheduled. In April, shortly after the new date (July 2) was announced, Bundy finally confessed to Hagmaier and Nelson what they believed was the full range of his depredations, including details of what he did to some of his victims after their deaths. He told them that he revisited Taylor Mountain, Issaquah, and other secondary crime scenes, often several times, to lie with his victims and perform sexual acts with their decomposing bodies until putrefaction forced him to stop. In some cases, he drove for several hours each way and remained the entire night. In Utah, he applied makeup to Melissa Smith's lifeless face, and he repeatedly washed Laura Aime's hair. \"If you've got time,\" he told Hagmaier, \"they can be anything you want them to be.\" He decapitated approximately twelve of his victims with a hacksaw, and kept at least one group of severed heads—probably the four later found on Taylor Mountain (Rancourt, Parks, Ball and Healy)—in his apartment for a period of time before disposing of them.\n\nLess than 15 hours before the scheduled July 2 execution, the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals stayed it indefinitely and remanded the Chi Omega case for review on multiple technicalities—including Bundy's mental competency to stand trial, and an erroneous instruction by the trial judge during the penalty phase requiring the jury to break a 6–6 tie between life imprisonment and the death penalty—that, ultimately, was never resolved. A new date (November 18, 1986) was then set to carry out the Leach sentence; the Eleventh Circuit Court issued a stay on November 17. In mid-1988, the Eleventh Circuit ruled against Bundy, and in December the Supreme Court denied a motion to review the ruling. Within hours of that final denial, a firm execution date of January 24, 1989, was announced. Bundy's journey through the appeals courts had been unusually rapid for a capital murder case: \"Contrary to popular belief, the courts moved Bundy as fast as they could ... Even the prosecutors acknowledged that Bundy's lawyers never employed delaying tactics. Though people everywhere seethed at the apparent delay in executing the archdemon, Ted Bundy was actually on the fast track.\"\n\nWith all appeal avenues exhausted and no further motivation to deny his crimes, Bundy agreed to speak frankly with investigators. He confessed to Keppel that he had committed all eight of the Washington and Oregon homicides for which he was the prime suspect. He described three additional previously unknown victims in Washington and two in Oregon whom he declined to identify (if indeed he ever knew their identities). He said he left a fifth corpse—Donna Manson's—on Taylor Mountain, but incinerated her head in Kloepfer's fireplace. (\"Of all the things I did to [Kloepfer],\" he told Keppel, \"this is probably the one she is least likely to forgive me for. Poor Liz.\")\n\nHe described in graphic detail his abduction of Georgann Hawkins from the brightly lit UW alley; how he had lured her to his car before rendering her unconscious with a crowbar he had earlier placed beside the vehicle before handcuffing her and driving her to Issaquah, where he had strangled her, before spending the entire night with her body, and later revisited her corpse on three later occasions. He also admitted, for the first time, that he returned to the UW alley the morning after Hawkins's abduction and murder. There, in the very midst of a major crime scene investigation, he located and gathered Hawkins's earrings and one of her shoes, where he had left them in the adjoining parking lot, and departed, unobserved. \"It was a feat so brazen,\" wrote Keppel, \"that it astonishes police even today.\"\n\n\"He described the Issaquah crime scene [where the bones of Ott, Naslund, and Hawkins were found], and it was almost like he was just there\", Keppel said. \"Like he was seeing everything. He was infatuated with the idea because he spent so much time there. He is just totally consumed with murder all the time.\" Nelson's impressions were similar: \"It was the absolute misogyny of his crimes that stunned me,\" she wrote, \"his manifest rage against women. He had no compassion at all ... he was totally engrossed in the details. His murders were his life's accomplishments.\"\n\nBundy confessed to detectives from Idaho, Utah, and Colorado that he had committed numerous additional homicides, including several that were unknown to the police. He explained that when he was in Utah he could bring his victims back to his apartment, \"where he could reenact scenarios depicted on the covers of detective magazines.\" A new ulterior strategy quickly became apparent: he withheld many details, hoping to parlay the incomplete information into yet another stay of execution. \"There are other buried remains in Colorado\", he admitted, but refused to elaborate. The new strategy—immediately dubbed \"Ted's bones-for-time scheme\"—served only to deepen the resolve of authorities to see Bundy executed on schedule, and yielded little new detailed information. In cases where he did give details, nothing was found. Colorado detective Matt Lindvall interpreted this as a conflict between his desire to postpone his execution by divulging information and his need to remain in \"total possession—the only person who knew his victims' true resting places.\"\n\nWhen it became clear that no further stays would be forthcoming from the courts, Bundy supporters began lobbying for the only remaining option, executive clemency. Diana Weiner, a young Florida attorney and Bundy's last purported love interest, asked the families of several Colorado and Utah victims to petition Florida Governor Bob Martinez for a postponement to give Bundy time to reveal more information. All refused. \"The families already believed that the victims were dead and that Ted had killed them\", wrote Nelson. \"They didn't need his confession.\" Martinez made it clear that he would not agree to further delays in any case. \"We are not going to have the system manipulated\", he told reporters. \"For him to be negotiating for his life over the bodies of victims is despicable.\"\n\nBoone had championed Bundy's innocence throughout all of his trials and felt \"deeply betrayed\" by his admission that he was, in fact, guilty. She moved back to Washington with her daughter and refused to accept his phone call on the day that he was executed. \"She was hurt by his relationship with Diana [Weiner],\" Nelson wrote, \"and devastated by his sudden wholesale confessions in his last days.\"\n\nHagmaier was present during Bundy's final interviews with investigators. On the eve of his execution, he talked of suicide. \"He did not want to give the state the satisfaction of watching him die\", Hagmaier said.\n\nBundy died in the Raiford electric chair at 7:16 a.m. EST on January 24, 1989; he was 42 years old. Hundreds of revelers—including 20 off-duty police officers, by one account—sang, danced and set off fireworks in a pasture across the street from the prison as the execution was carried out, then cheered loudly as the white hearse containing his corpse departed the prison. His body was cremated in Gainesville, and his ashes scattered at an undisclosed location in the Cascade Range of Washington State, in accordance with his will.\n\nBundy was an unusually organized and calculating criminal who used his extensive knowledge of law enforcement methodologies to elude identification and capture for years. His crime scenes were distributed over large geographic areas; his victim count had risen to at least 20 before it became clear that numerous investigators in widely disparate jurisdictions were hunting the same man. His assault methods of choice were blunt trauma and strangulation, two relatively silent techniques that could be accomplished with common household items. He deliberately avoided firearms due to the noise they made and the ballistic evidence they left behind. He was a \"meticulous researcher\" who explored his surroundings in minute detail, looking for safe sites to seize and dispose of victims. He was unusually skilled at minimizing physical evidence. His fingerprints were never found at a crime scene, nor any other incontrovertible evidence of his guilt, a fact he repeated often during the years in which he attempted to maintain his innocence.\n\nOther significant obstacles for law enforcement were Bundy's generic, essentially anonymous physical features, and a curious chameleon-like ability to change his appearance almost at will. Early on, police complained of the futility of showing his photograph to witnesses; he looked different in virtually every photo ever taken of him. In person, \"his expression would so change his whole appearance that there were moments that you weren't even sure you were looking at the same person\", said Stewart Hanson, Jr., the judge in the DaRonch trial. \"He [was] really a changeling.\" Bundy was well aware of this unusual quality and he exploited it, using subtle modifications of facial hair or hairstyle to significantly alter his appearance as necessary. He concealed his one distinctive identifying mark, a dark mole on his neck, with turtleneck shirts and sweaters. Even his Volkswagen Beetle proved difficult to pin down; its color was variously described by witnesses as metallic or non-metallic, tan or bronze, light brown or dark brown.\n\nBundy's \"modus operandi\" evolved in organization and sophistication over time, as is typical of serial murderers, according to FBI experts. Early on, it consisted of forcible late-night entry followed by a violent attack with a blunt weapon on a sleeping victim. Some victims were sexually assaulted with inert objects; all except Healy were left as they lay, unconscious or dead. As his methodology evolved Bundy became progressively more organized in his choice of victims and crime scenes. He would employ various ruses designed to lure his victim to the vicinity of his vehicle where he had pre-positioned a weapon, usually a crowbar. In many cases he wore a plaster cast on one leg or a sling on one arm, and sometimes hobbled on crutches, then requested assistance in carrying something to his vehicle. Bundy was regarded as handsome and charismatic by many of his victims, traits he exploited to win their confidence. \"Ted lured females\", Michaud wrote, \"the way a lifeless silk flower can dupe a honey bee.\" Once near or inside his vehicle the victim would be overpowered, bludgeoned, and restrained with handcuffs. Most were sexually assaulted and strangled, either at the primary crime scene or (more commonly) after transport to a pre-selected secondary site, often a considerable distance away. In situations where his looks and charm were not useful, he invoked authority by identifying himself as a police officer or firefighter. Toward the end of his spree, in Florida, perhaps under the stress of being a fugitive, he regressed to indiscriminate attacks on sleeping victims.\n\nAt secondary sites he would remove and later burn the victim's clothing, or in at least one case (Cunningham's) deposit them in a Goodwill Industries collection bin. Bundy explained that the clothing removal was ritualistic, but also a practical matter, as it minimized the chance of leaving trace evidence at the crime scene that could implicate him. (A manufacturing error in fibers from his own clothing, ironically, provided a crucial incriminating link to Kimberly Leach.) He often revisited his secondary crime scenes to engage in acts of necrophilia, and to groom or dress up the cadavers. Some victims were found wearing articles of clothing they had never worn, or nail polish that family members had never seen. He took Polaroid photos of many of his victims. \"When you work hard to do something right,\" he told Hagmaier, \"you don't want to forget it.\" Consumption of large quantities of alcohol was an \"essential component\", he told Keppel, and later Michaud; he needed to be \"extremely drunk\" while on the prowl in order to \"significantly diminish\" his inhibitions and to \"sedate\" the \"dominant personality\" that he feared might prevent his inner \"entity\" from acting on his impulses.\n\nAll of Bundy's known victims were white females, most of middle-class backgrounds. Almost all were between the ages of 15 and 25 and most were college students. He apparently never approached anyone he might have met before. (In their last conversation before his execution, Bundy told Kloepfer he had purposely stayed away from her \"when he felt the power of his sickness building in him.\") Rule noted that most of the identified victims had long straight hair, parted in the middle—like Stephanie Brooks, the woman who rejected him, and to whom he later became engaged and then rejected in return. Rule speculated that Bundy's animosity toward his first girlfriend triggered his protracted rampage and caused him to target victims who resembled her. Bundy dismissed this hypothesis: \"[T]hey ... just fit the general criteria of being young and attractive\", he told Hugh Aynesworth. \"Too many people have bought this crap that all the girls were similar ... [but] almost everything was dissimilar ... physically, they were almost all different.\" He did concede that youth and beauty were \"absolutely indispensable criteria\" in his choice of victims.\n\nAfter Bundy's execution, Ann Rule was surprised and troubled to hear from numerous \"sensitive, intelligent, kind young women\", who wrote or called to say they were deeply depressed because Bundy was dead. Many had corresponded with him, \"each believing that she was his only one\". Several said they suffered nervous breakdowns when he died. \"Even in death, Ted damaged women,\" Rule wrote. \"To get well, they must realize that they were conned by the master conman. They are grieving for a shadow man that never existed.\"\n\nBundy underwent multiple psychiatric examinations; the experts' conclusions varied. Dorothy Otnow Lewis, Professor of Psychiatry at the New York University School of Medicine and an authority on violent behavior, initially made a diagnosis of bipolar disorder, but later changed her impression more than once. She also suggested the possibility of a multiple personality disorder, based on behaviors described in interviews and court testimony: a great-aunt witnessed an episode during which Bundy \"seemed to turn into another, unrecognizable person ... [she] suddenly, inexplicably found herself afraid of her favorite nephew as they waited together at a dusk-darkened train station. He had turned into a stranger.\" Lewis recounted a prison official in Tallahassee describing a similar transformation: \"He said, 'He became weird on me.' He did a metamorphosis, a body and facial change, and he felt there was almost an odor emitting from him. He said, 'Almost a complete change of personality ... that was the day I was afraid of him.\n\nWhile experts found Bundy's precise diagnosis elusive, the majority of evidence pointed away from bipolar disorder or other psychoses, and toward antisocial personality disorder (ASPD). Bundy displayed many personality traits typically found in ASPD patients (who are often identified as \"sociopaths\" or \"psychopaths\"), such as outward charm and charisma with little true personality or genuine insight beneath the facade; the ability to distinguish right from wrong, but with minimal effect on behavior; and an absence of guilt or remorse. \"Guilt doesn't solve anything, really\", Bundy said, in 1981. \"It hurts you ... I guess I am in the enviable position of not having to deal with guilt.\" There was also evidence of narcissism, poor judgment, and manipulative behavior. \"Sociopaths\", prosecutor George Dekle wrote, \"are egotistical manipulators who think they can con anybody.\" \"Sometimes he manipulates even me\", admitted one psychiatrist. In the end, Lewis agreed with the majority: \"I always tell my graduate students that if they can find me a real, true psychopath, I'll buy them dinner\", she told Nelson. \"I never thought they existed ... but I think Ted may have been one, a true psychopath, without any remorse or empathy at all.\" Narcissistic personality disorder (NPD) has been proposed as an alternative diagnosis in at least one subsequent retrospective analysis.\n\nOn the afternoon before he was executed, Bundy granted an interview to James Dobson, a psychologist and founder of the Christian evangelical organization Focus on the Family. He used the opportunity to make new claims about violence in the media and the pornographic \"roots\" of his crimes. \"It happened in stages, gradually\", he said. \"My experience with ... pornography that deals on a violent level with sexuality, is once you become addicted to it ... I would keep looking for more potent, more explicit, more graphic kinds of material. Until you reach a point where the pornography only goes so far ... where you begin to wonder if maybe actually doing it would give that which is beyond just reading it or looking at it.\" Violence in the media, he said, \"particularly sexualized violence\", sent boys \"down the road to being Ted Bundys.\" The FBI, he suggested, should stake out adult movie houses and follow patrons as they leave. \"You are going to kill me,\" he said, \"and that will protect society from me. But out there are many, many more people who are addicted to pornography, and you are doing nothing about that.\"\n\nWhile Nelson was apparently convinced that Bundy's concern was genuine, most biographers, researchers, and other observers have concluded that his sudden condemnation of pornography was one last manipulative attempt to shift blame by catering to Dobson's agenda as a longtime pornography critic. He told Dobson that \"true crime\" detective magazines had \"corrupted\" him and \"fueled [his] fantasies ... to the point of becoming a serial killer\"; yet in a 1977 letter to Ann Rule, he wrote, \"Who in the world reads these publications? ... I have never purchased such a magazine, and [on only] two or three occasions have I ever picked one up.\" He told Michaud and Aynsworth in 1980, and Hagmaier the night before he spoke to Dobson, that pornography played a negligible role in his development as a serial killer. \"The problem wasn't pornography\", wrote Dekle. \"The problem was Bundy.\" \"I wish I could believe that his motives were altruistic,\" wrote Rule. \"But all I can see in that Dobson tape is another Ted Bundy manipulation of our minds. The effect of the tape is to place, once again, the onus of his crimes, not on \"himself\", but on \"us\".\"\n\nRule and Aynesworth both noted that for Bundy, the fault always lay with someone or something else. While he eventually confessed to 30 murders, he never accepted responsibility for any of them, even when offered that opportunity prior to the Chi Omega trial—which would have spared him the death penalty. He deflected blame onto a wide variety of scapegoats, including his abusive grandfather, the absence of his biological father, the concealment of his true parentage, alcohol, the media, the police (whom he accused of planting evidence), \"society\" in general, violence on television and, ultimately, true crime periodicals and pornography. He blamed television programming—which he watched mostly on sets that he had stolen—for \"brainwashing\" him into stealing credit cards. On at least one occasion he even tried to blame his victims: \"I have known people who ... radiate vulnerability\", he wrote in a 1977 letter to Kloepfer. \"Their facial expressions say 'I am afraid of you.' These people invite abuse ... By expecting to be hurt, do they subtly encourage it?\"\n\nA significant element of delusion permeated his thinking: Bundy was always surprised when anyone noticed that one of his victims was missing, because he imagined America to be a place where everyone is invisible except to themselves. And he was always astounded when people testified that they had seen him in incriminating places, because Bundy did not believe people noticed each other. \"I don't know why everyone is out to get me\", he complained to Lewis. \"He really and truly did not have any sense of the enormity of what he had done,\" she said. \"A long-term serial killer erects powerful barriers to his guilt,\" Keppel wrote, \"walls of denial that can sometimes never be breached.\" Nelson agreed. \"Each time he was forced to make an actual confession,\" she wrote, \"he had to leap a steep barrier he had built inside himself long ago.\"\n\nThe night before his execution, Bundy confessed to 30 homicides, but the true total remains unknown. Published estimates have run as high as 100 or more, and Bundy occasionally made cryptic comments to encourage that speculation. He told Hugh Aynesworth in 1980 that for every murder \"publicized\", there \"could be one that was not.\" When FBI agents proposed a total tally of 36, Bundy responded, \"Add one digit to that, and you'll have it.\" Years later he told attorney Polly Nelson that the common estimate of 35 was accurate, but Robert Keppel wrote that \"[Ted] and I both knew [the total] was much higher.\" \"I don't think even he knew ... how many he killed, or why he killed them\", said Rev. Fred Lawrence, the Methodist clergyman who administered Bundy's last rites. \"That was my impression, my strong impression.\"\n\nOn the evening before his execution, Bundy reviewed his victim tally with Bill Hagmaier on a state-by-state basis for a total of 30 homicides:\n\nThe following is a chronological summary of the 20 identified victims and 5 identified survivors:\n\n\n\n\n\nBundy remains a suspect in several unsolved homicides, and is likely responsible for others that may never be identified; in 1987 he confided to Keppel that there were \"some murders\" that he would \"never talk about\", because they were committed \"too close to home\", \"too close to family\", or involved \"victims who were very young\".\n\nMinutes before his execution, Hagmaier queried Bundy about unsolved homicides in New Jersey, Illinois, Vermont (the Curran case), Texas, and Miami, Florida. Bundy provided directions—later proven inaccurate—to Susan Curtis's burial site in Utah, but denied involvement in any of the open cases.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41844524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41844524", "title": "The Flash (2014 TV series)", "text": "The Flash (2014 TV series)\n\nThe Flash is an American superhero television series developed by Greg Berlanti, Andrew Kreisberg, and Geoff Johns, airing on The CW. It is based on the DC Comics character Barry Allen / Flash, a costumed superhero crime-fighter with the power to move at superhuman speeds. It is a spin-off from \"Arrow\", existing in the same fictional universe. The series follows Allen, portrayed by Grant Gustin, a crime scene investigator who gains super-human speed, which he uses to fight criminals, including others who have also gained superhuman abilities.\n\nInitially envisioned as a backdoor pilot, the positive reception Gustin received during two appearances as Barry on \"Arrow\" led to executives choosing to develop a full pilot to make use of a larger budget and help flesh out Barry's world in more detail. Colleen Atwood, costume designer for \"Arrow\", was brought in to design the Flash's suit. The creative team wanted to make sure that the Flash would resemble his comic book counterpart, and not simply be a poor imitation. The series is primarily filmed in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.\n\n\"The Flash\" premiered in North America on October 7, 2014, where the pilot became the second-most watched premiere in the history of The CW, after \"The Vampire Diaries\" in 2009. It has been well received by critics and audiences, and won the People's Choice Award for \"Favorite New TV Drama\" in 2014. The series, together with \"Arrow\", has spun characters out to their own show, \"Legends of Tomorrow\", which premiered on January 21, 2016. On April 2, 2018, The CW renewed the series for a fifth season, which premiered on October 9, 2018.\n\nIn season one, after witnessing his mother's supernatural murder, Barry Allen is taken in by Detective Joe West and his family. Barry becomes a brilliant but socially awkward crime scene investigator for the Central City Police Department. A particle accelerator malfunctions, bathing the city center with a radiation during a thunderstorm, and Barry is struck by lightning. Awakening after a coma, he discovers he can move at superhuman speeds. Harrison Wells, the accelerator's designer, describes Barry's nature as \"metahuman\". Barry vows to use his gifts to protect Central City. As the Flash, Barry also pursues his mother's murderer, the Reverse-Flash.\n\nIn season two, after a singularity event occurs, the Flash is recognized as Central City's hero. However, the event brings a new threat from a parallel earth: Zoom, a demonic speedster who seeks to eliminate all speedsters throughout the multiverse. Harrison Wells' parallel universe counterpart nicknamed \"Harry\", and his daughter Jesse, work to help Barry stop Zoom and explore the multiverse. Joe and his daughter, Iris, struggle with the arrival of Iris's brother Wally West. After Zoom kills Barry's father, and following Zoom's defeat, Barry travels back in time to save his mother's life.\n\nIn season three, by changing his past, Barry alters the timeline, resulting in the alternate timeline \"Flashpoint\". Though he is somewhat able to restore the timeline, this creates new threats, including the emergence of Savitar, a god-like speedster with a grudge against Barry. After Harry and Jesse return to Earth-2, another Wells doppelgänger is recruited: the novelist \"H.R.\" Wells. Both Wally and Caitlin Snow begin to manifest metahuman abilities; Wally suits up as the speedster Kid Flash, while Caitlin is forced to suppress her ice-powers to prevent Killer Frost from emerging. When Barry accidentally travels to the future and sees Iris killed by Savitar, he becomes desperate to change the future to prevent that from happening. After saving Iris and defeating Savitar, Barry takes his place in the Speed Force in order to repent for his creation of Flashpoint.\n\nIn season four, following Barry's departure, Wally and Cisco have barely been able to protect Central City. When a new foe defeats them easily, requesting a battle against the Flash, the team decides to bring Barry back. While they manage to do so, Barry's return releases dark matter, turning a dozen people on a city bus into metahumans. One of these metas is private detective Ralph Dibny, who joins the Flash's team. The team later encounters Clifford DeVoe, an adversary with the fastest mind alive, who has orchestrated Barry's return from the Speed Force as well as the creation of the bus metas. Harry Wells, with his parallel universe counterparts, establish an alliance coined the Council of Wells to assist Team Flash in stopping DeVoe. Following the Thinker's defeat, the team is approached by Barry and Iris' daughter from the future, Nora West-Allen, who claims to have made \"a big, big mistake\".\n\nIn season five, Barry is approached by his daughter, Nora West-Allen, who has arrived from the future to spend time with him. However, the team quickly discovers that Nora's presence not only altered the timeline, but unleashed a new threat in the form of Cicada, a serial killer bent on killing metahumans. In addition, they discover that meta-technology was created following their battle with the Thinker, meaning anyone wielding meta-tech can utilize the power of a metahuman. The Council of Wells sends one of their doppelgängers, detective Sherloque Wells, to aid Team Flash in countering these crises. \n\n\nOn July 30, 2013, it was announced that \"Arrow\" co-creators Greg Berlanti and Andrew Kreisberg, \"Arrow\" pilot director David Nutter, and DC Comics CCO Geoff Johns would develop a television series based on the Flash for The CW, and it would detail Barry Allen's origin. Kreisberg revealed after the announcement that Allen would first appear as a recurring character on \"Arrow\" in three episodes of season two—all written by Berlanti, Kreisberg and Johns—and the last of the episodes would act as a backdoor pilot for the new show. Kreisberg added that Allen would be a forensic scientist and the introduction of his superpowers, as well as the reactions to this, will be very human and grounded. Johns stated that the character of the Flash in the show would resemble his comic book counterpart, complete with his trademark red costume, and not be a poor imitation. Kreisberg elaborated: \"No sweat suits or strange code names; he \"will be\" The Flash.\" While researching the best way to depict the Flash's lightning speed, Johns stated it would not just be the standard \"blurring around\".\n\nBarry ultimately appeared twice in \"Arrow\" second season, with the planned backdoor pilot cancelled in favor of a traditional pilot by The CW executives, who had been impressed by early cuts of Barry's first two episodes on \"Arrow\". This allowed the creative team to flesh out Barry's story and his world on a bigger budget, as opposed to a backdoor pilot's constraint of incorporating characters from the parent show. The pilot was officially ordered on January 29, 2014, and was written by Berlanti, Kreisberg, and Johns, and directed by Nutter. On May 8, 2014, \"The Flash\" was officially picked up as a series, with an initial order of 13 episodes. Three more scripts were ordered in September 2014 following a positive response to newly completed episodes by executives, while a back ten was ordered the next month for a full 23-episode season.\n\nWith the commencement of production on the series' second season, former \"Arrow\" and \"Ugly Betty\" writer Gabrielle Stanton was promoted to executive producer and showrunner; after having served as consulting producer and writer on the first season's finale \"Fast Enough\". However, it was later reported that Kreisberg would be returning to sole showrunner duties at an unspecified time. That time was later proved to be at the start of 2016, \"Potential Energy\", when Stanton was no longer credited as being involved with the show. In May 2017, it was reported that Aaron Helbing would be departing the series. Helbing had served as a writer since the first season, and as co-showrunner, along with his brother Todd and Kreisberg, since the second.\n\nThe costume was designed by Colleen Atwood, who also designed the costumes for \"Arrow\". It features a burgundy color scheme, a masked helmet, and gold accents throughout, and went through multiple adjustments from the moment it was placed in computer renderings to the day of filming the pilot. Primarily made of leather, the suit contains areas with a stretchable material to allow Gustin room to bend. According to Atwood \"It was all about a costume that could sell speed, Grant [Gustin] was continually moving in the suit, so it had to be designed to make that all happen visually and functionally.\" It initially took Gustin approximately 40 minutes to get into his costume, as the first cowl was prosthetic and had to be zipped and glued to his face. This was cut down to approximately 15 minutes by episode eight, when designers were able to develop a new cowl that easily slid over Gustin's face and locked into place. Maya Mani replaced Atwood as the costume designer for the second season and made slight changes to the Flash costume, such as changing the color of his crest from yellow to white, being faithful to the Flash costume from the comics.\n\nProduction on the pilot began in March 2014, with filming taking place in Vancouver, British Columbia; additional filming for the series takes place in Portland, Oregon. On how action sequences are shot for the series, compared to \"Arrow\", Gustin said, \"When [\"Arrow\"] shoot[s] action sequences, pretty much what you see is what you get and they're really doing everything. We do a lot of plate shots that are empty shots of the area we're going to be in and then they're putting us in later in post. I do a lot of the fighting. I don't have to do it full speed and then they ramp it up and a lot of people have to freeze and I keep moving. Then I have to clear frame and step back into frame. It's really tedious stuff that we have to do. On theirs, they learn fight choreography and they shoot it from the perfect angles and what you see is what you get.\" Production on the third season began in early July 2016.\n\n\"Arrow\" composer Blake Neely is the primary composer of the series, and was first hired in April 2014 to score the pilot. He had previously composed a theme for Barry Allen which was featured in \"Arrow\"s season two episodes \"The Scientist\" and \"Three Ghosts\". The theme was titled \"The Scientist\" when it was released on the \"Arrow: Season 2\" soundtrack. According to Neely, \"It had to be different [from \"Arrow\"] ... but it also couldn't be so different that it couldn't fit in the \"Arrow\" universe, ... it had to be in a style that could hold hands with \"Arrow\".\" On December 18, 2014, WaterTower Music released a selection of music from \"The Flash\"/\"Arrow\" crossover episodes, as well as two bonus tracks from their respective 2014 midseason finales. The first season, two-disc soundtrack was released on October 16, 2015. The second season's soundtrack was released digitally on July 22, 2016, and in CD format on July 26, 2016.\n\nThe sound design for the show is handled by Mark Camperell. The sound effect for Barry is made up of elements of thunder, electricity, jets, fireballs, and various custom whooshes and impacts. Speaking about designing the sound for The Flash's ability, Mark says: \"My approach for the sounds of The Flash's ability was to editorially treat him like a really aggressively driven hot rod. This doesn't mean that I used car sounds for him, though. What I mean is that when thinking about how to edit his sounds, I thought about it like cutting a car chase.\"\n\n\"The Flash\" was screened at the Warner Bros. Television and DC Entertainment panel at San Diego Comic-Con International in July 2014. The series officially premiered on The CW on October 7, 2014, during the 2014–15 television season and also premiered in Canada on the same night. The second episode was screened at New York Comic Con on October 9, 2014, as a way to repay the viewers that watched the series' premiere episode. The series premiered in the United Kingdom and Ireland on October 28, 2014, and in Australia on December 3, 2014.\n\nRegarding Gustin's debut as Barry Allen in \"Arrow\" and the potential for a series, IGN's Jesse Schedeen stated his concern: \"Gustin doesn't come across as leading man material. His awkward bumbling intertwining with Felicity's was cute, but rarely did I get the impression that this character could or should be given his own spinoff series.\" Schedeen eventually warmed up to the character, however, once the \"dorkiness and social awkwardness\" were downplayed a bit and the emphasis was placed on \"his keen scientific mind\".\n\nThe review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reported a 97% approval rating with an average rating of 7.5/10 based on 58 reviews. The website's consensus reads, \"\"The Flash\" benefits from its purposefully light atmosphere, making it a superhero show uniquely geared toward genre fans as well as novices.\" Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned a score of 73 out of 100, based on 27 reviews, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\". IGN's Eric Goldman and Joshua Yehl praised the show's premise and cast after viewing a press screening copy of the pilot. Goldman and Yehl favorably compared it to \"Arrow\", stating that \"The Flash\" progresses with a confidence that \"Arrow\" did not get until later in the series. Reviews for the series became increasingly positive as the season progressed, with the finale receiving critical acclaim. Noel Murray of The A.V. Club gave the season a B+ overall, giving praise to the pacing of the plot, the performances of the cast and the special effects, and also pointing out the series' boldness to embrace its comic book influences, something that conventional superhero shows tend not to do. Weekly episode reviewer Scott Von Doviak gave consistently high ratings to the season and awarded the season finale a perfect A grade, calling the episode \"richly satisfying\" and also commending the show for \"[capturing] the essence of its source material in a fun, light-on-its-feet way that few other comic book adaptations have managed.\" He also gave high praise to the emotional value and performances of the cast, as well as the cliffhanger and multiple easter eggs found in the episode. The second season of \"The Flash\" scored a Metacritic rating of 81 out of 100 indicating \"universal acclaim\".\n\nIn 2016, \"Rolling Stone\" ranked the show #23 on its list of the \"40 Best Science Fiction TV Shows of All Time\".\n\nThe first episode of \"The Flash\" was watched by 4.8 million viewers and had a 1.9 18–49 demographic rating, making it The CW's most watched and highest rated series premiere since \"The Vampire Diaries\" in 2009. It also became The CW's second-most watched series premiere ever, behind \"90210\", and the third-highest rated in the 18–49 demographic. Factoring Live + 7 day ratings, the pilot was watched by a total of 6.8 million viewers, becoming The CW's most-watched telecast and the highest-rated premiere among men 18–34 (2.5 rating). It broke the previous record for the most-watched telecast held by the cycle 8 finale of \"America's Next Top Model\" in 2007 (6.69 million). Additionally, across all platforms, including initiated streams on digital platforms and total unduplicated viewers on-air over two airings the week of October 7, 2014, the premiere was seen more than 13 million times.\nThe Canadian premiere was watched by 3.11 million viewers, making it the most-watched broadcast that night and the second for that week. In the United Kingdom, the premiere was the fourth highest-rated broadcast of the week and the eleventh of that month, with 1.53 million viewers. The timeshifted version got 82,000 viewers. The premiere in Australia was the most-watched broadcast on pay television, with 129,000 viewers tuning in.\n\nIn 2016, according to an analysis from Parrot Analytics, which used ratings data (where available), peer-to-peer sharing, social media chatter, and other factors to estimate viewer demand for various shows, \"The Flash\" was the 5th most popular show in the world with 3.1 million demand expressions per day, behind \"Game of Thrones\", \"The Walking Dead\", \"Pretty Little Liars\", and \"Westworld\". TorrentFreak also gauged \"The Flash\" as the fourth most-torrented television show of 2016.\n\n\"The Flash: Season Zero\", written by Kreisberg, Brooke Eikmeier and Katherine Walczak, with art by Phil Hester and Eric Gapstur, is intended to take place between the pilot episode and episode 2. Kreisberg stated, \"Barry will [already] be the Flash, he will have his team, everyone will be in that world, and we'll introducing a new set of villains that we won't be seeing on the TV show. It'll feel like the same heart, humor and spectacle that you get watching \"Flash\".\" The comic will showcase the entire TV cast, plus new rogues, a group of circus performers who gained super powers as a result of the S.T.A.R. Labs particle accelerator explosion. The group is led by Mr. Bliss, a character who first appeared in \"Starman\". The comic launched digitally biweekly on September 8, 2014, with its first physical release featuring a collection of the digital releases, releasing on October 1.\n\nOn February 24, 2015, The CW launched a Tumblr account known as \"The Chronicles of Cisco\". The blog features posts written by the fictional character of Cisco Ramon, at first serving as write-ups of the metahuman villains on the show. Starting with the second season of the show, the posts evolved into the general musings of Ramon and his commentary on the events during and outside of \"The Flash\"'s episodes.\n\nOn April 19, 2016, a four-episode series of shorts, titled \"Chronicles of Cisco: Entry 0419\", premiered. The series, which was presented by AT&T, features Valdes and Britne Oldford reprise their role as Cisco Ramon and Shawna Baez / Peek-a-Boo, respectively. Set in the second season of the television series, the series sees Cisco attempting to make the Flash suit bulletproof and body-odor proof. While working on these, he receives a late-night Meta-Human Alert within S.T.A.R. Labs, and learns that Peek-a-Boo triggered the alert. She has come to S.T.A.R. Labs to make Cisco create a weapon for her, as he did for Golden Glider, Captain Cold, and Heatwave. When he does not cooperate, she shoots him. Cisco survives being shot, realizing that the orange soda he spilt on his shirt was the missing catalyst to his bulletproof formula. Cisco tries to bring Peek-a-Boo back to the pipeline, but she locks him in the cell instead. Cisco is then seen being woken up due to a call from Barry. He believes he dreamt the whole experience, until he finds the bullet that shot him on the ground.\n\nOn November 14, 2017, a three-episode series of shorts, known as \"Stretched Scenes\", premiered. The series, presented by Microsoft Surface, features Hartley Sawyer, Danielle Panabaker, and Candice Patton as Ralph Dibny, Cailtin Snow, and Iris West respectively. Set during the show's fourth season, it shows Dibny as he continually bothers Cailtin and Iris for their help, or for attention. The shorts premiered online as well as during the commercial breaks of the episodes \"When Harry Met Harry...\", \"Therefore I Am\", and \"Don't Run\".\n\nThe series has also been featured in other video games based off DC Comics property. In the mobile version of \"\", the show's versions of the Flash and Reverse-Flash appear as alternate costumes for the Flash. The show's version of S.T.A.R. Labs also appears as a hidden area in \"Lego Dimensions\". In September 2018, Warner Bros. announced that the season pass for the game \"Lego DC Super-Villains\" would included content inspired by \"The Flash\".\n\nOn November 29, 2016, Titan Books released \"Flash: The Haunting of Barry Allen\", a tie-in novelization written by Susan and Clay Griffith, set during the course of the second season, after Barry has closed the temporal anomaly that nearly destroyed Central City. Barry must seek help from Oliver Queen, due to his own abilities beginning to break down, in order to deal with five members of his Rogues Gallery—including Pied Piper, Weather Wizard, and Peekaboo. The story continued in \"Arrow — A Generation of Vipers\", released on March 28, 2017. A subsequent novel, following the villain Weather Wizard in his attempts at revenge, was released in May 2018. Written by Richard A. Knaak, it is titled \"The Flash: Climate Changeling\".\n\nIn October, 2017, Abrams Books started a new trilogy of \"The Flash\" novels, written by Barry Lyga, aimed at middle-grade readers in tandem with a similar trilogy of \"Supergirl\" novels. The first, \"The Flash: Hocus Pocus\", was released on October 3, 2017. The novel takes place in an alternate timeline where the show's \"Flashpoint\" event never occurred, and The Flash must fight a villain known as Hocus Pocus who can control the minds and actions of people. A sequel, \"The Flash: Johnny Quick\" was released on April 3, 2018, as well as a third novel, titled \"The Flash: The Tornado Twins\", on October 2, 2018.\n\nOn October 21, 2016, \"The Art and Making of The Flash\" by Abbie Bernstein was released. This is a 160-page behind-the-scenes book with production art and behind-the-scenes photography. The book also includes interviews with the cast and crew from the show.\n\nIn January 2015, The CW president Mark Pedowitz announced the intention to do a \"Flash\"/\"Arrow\" crossover every season, and The CW announced that an animated web-series, \"Vixen\", featuring the DC heroine of the same name and set in the universe of \"Arrow\" and \"The Flash\", would be debuting on CW Seed in late 2015. The character is expected to make a live-action appearance on \"Arrow\" and/or \"The Flash\" as well. The next month, it was reported that a spin-off series, which is described as a superhero team-up show, was in discussion by The CW for a possible 2015–16 midseason release. Berlanti and Kreisberg would executive produce alongside Guggenheim and Sarah Schechter. The potential series would be headlined by several recurring characters from both \"Arrow\" and \"The Flash\", with the potential for other \"Arrow\"/\"Flash\" characters to cross over to the new series as well. In May 2015, The CW officially picked up the series, titled \"DC's Legends of Tomorrow\".\n\nThe second season begins to explore the concept of the multiverse, by introducing Earth-2, which features doppelgängers of the inhabitants in the Arrowverse (or Earth-1), along with Jay Garrick, the Flash of Earth-2, and Zoom. In the episode \"Welcome to Earth-2\", as Barry, Cisco and Harrison Wells of Earth-2 travel to Earth-2, glimpses of the multiverse are seen, including an image of \"Supergirl\" star Melissa Benoist as Supergirl and an image of John Wesley Shipp as the Flash from the 1990 television series, implying the two characters and their respective television series exist on alternate Earths to the Arrowverse; \"Supergirl\"s world is later designated Earth-38 in the Arrowverse multiverse. Gustin as Barry appeared on the eighteenth episode of \"Supergirl\", \"Worlds Finest\", which aired on CBS on March 28, 2016. Intersecting with the events of the eighteenth episode of \"The Flash\", which aired on April 19, 2016, Barry accidentally arrives on Earth-38 and helps Kara battle two of her enemies, Silver Banshee (Italia Ricci) and Livewire (Brit Morgan), before returning home.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35555286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35555286", "title": "The Ghost of Harrenhal", "text": "The Ghost of Harrenhal\n\n\"The Ghost of Harrenhal\" is the fifth episode of the second season of HBO's medieval fantasy television series \"Game of Thrones\". The episode is written by series co-creators David Benioff and D.B. Weiss and directed, for the second time in this season, by David Petrarca. It premiered on April 29, 2012.\n\n“The Ghost of Harrenhal” is how Arya Stark describes herself while at Harrenhal in \"A Clash of Kings\", the novel on which the season is based, although the phrase is not heard in the episode.\n\nThis episode marks the final appearance of Gethin Anthony (Renly Baratheon).\n\nKing Renly Baratheon and Catelyn Stark negotiate an alliance in his tent with Brienne of Tarth standing guard, when the shadow creature birthed by Melisandre suddenly enters and fatally stabs Renly before disappearing. Two of Renly's guards enter the tent and, taking Brienne for the murderer, attack her. She slays them and is convinced by Catelyn to escape with her so that Brienne may at least avenge Renly someday. During their journey, Brienne swears allegiance to Catelyn, who promises not to interfere with Brienne's vengeance on Stannis Baratheon, whom she believes played a role in Renly's murder.\n\nMeanwhile, Renly's death causes confusion amongst his men. Ser Loras Tyrell also holds Stannis responsible for Renly's death and wants revenge, but Petyr Baelish and Renly's widow Margaery Tyrell convince him that they must escape before Stannis' fleet arrives. As Stannis reaches the camp, his dead brother's bannermen swear fealty to him, but Davos Seaworth warns him to stay away from Melisandre because his men whisper that she is controlling him. Stannis takes Davos's advice not to bring Melisandre with him during his forthcoming assault on King's Landing, and gives a reluctant Davos the command of the fleet in the coming siege of King's Landing.\n\nTyrion blackmails more information out of his cousin Lancel, who reveals that Cersei has been stockpiling massive amounts of \"wildfire,\" a dangerous flammable substance. While crossing the city with Bronn, Tyrion is unsurprised at hearing an agitator rail against the incest-born king, but surprised and hurt to hear himself blamed for Joffrey's misdeeds. He visits the royal pyromancer, Wisdom Hallyne, who reveals a secret cache of close to eight thousand pots of wildfire that Joffrey intends to catapult onto Stannis' forces when they attack the city. Bronn doubts the effectiveness of the plan, but Tyrion decides to use it and claims the cache for himself.\n\nTheon Greyjoy has been made the captain of a single ship, with orders to raid fishing villages on the northern coast. Before even setting sail, Theon's crew openly disrespect him and abandon him on shore. Theon's first mate Dagmer Cleftjaw comes to his assistance and suggests that Theon will need to win the respect of the men with a more impressive deed. When Dagmer proposes an assault on the Northern town of Torrhen's Square, Theon disagrees at first, saying that the raid will attract the attention of Winterfell's forces, but later realizes that Dagmer intends to besiege Torrhen's Square in order to leave Winterfell poorly defended for his takeover.\n\nBran receives the news that Torrhen's Square is under assault, and urges Ser Rodrik Cassel to raise a force to defend it. Later he tells Osha of his recent dreams wherein the ocean floods, destroying Winterfell and its inhabitants. He also asks Osha about the \"three-eyed raven\" that appears in his dreams, but Osha deflects his inquiries.\n\nOn their trek northwards, the Night's Watch meet up with the legendary ranger Qhorin Halfhand at the Fist of the First Men, an ancient fortification. Qhorin warns that the wildlings have become more organized and dangerous under the leadership of former ranger Mance Rayder (the King Beyond the Wall). With a small party, Qhorin intends to approach and eliminate a wildling watchpost. Jon Snow volunteers to join Qhorin, which he is eventually allowed to do.\n\nDaenerys Targaryen enjoys holding court at Qarth and watching her dragons grow. At a party given by her rich host Xaro Xhoan Daxos, the warlock Pyat Pree invites Daenerys to visit the \"House of the Undying,\" while the masked Quaithe warns Ser Jorah Mormont of dangers that face Daenerys. Later, Xaro asks Daenerys for her hand in marriage in exchange for enough wealth and power to take King's Landing. Jorah vehemently opposes this, arguing that she needs to win the Iron Throne on her own rather than as a perceived foreign puppet. After questioning Jorah's motives, Daenerys eventually hears him out and agrees with him.\n\nArya Stark serves as cupbearer for Lord Tywin Lannister. During a meeting with his lieutenants regarding the war, Tywin deduces that she is a Northerner, but remains unaware of her identity. Later, Arya encounters Jaqen H'ghar, whom she had rescued along with Rorge and Biter, and who is now disguised as a Lannister guardsman. Jaqen offers to return her past favor by offering her \"three lives\" he will claim for the Red God, as a compensation for the three lives she saved. Arya designates \"The Tickler,\" Harrenhal's cruel interrogator, as her first victim. Soon enough, he is found dead with a broken neck, and Jaqen signals to Arya that the first debt has been paid.\n\n\"The Ghost of Harrenhal\" is the fifth episode of the second season written by the two showrunners David Benioff and D.B. Weiss, and the fifteenth in the whole series. The script is based on the chapters Daenerys II, Arya VII, Catelyn IV, Jon IV, Bran V, Catelyn V, and Jon V (28, 31, 34, 35, 36, 40, and 44) from George R. R. Martin's \"A Clash of Kings\". Tyrion's scenes with the Pyromancers and Cersei are taken from the chapters Tyrion V and Tyrion VIII (21 and 37).\n\nThere are numerous divergences from the source material: in the books Lord Baelish is sent by the Council to negotiate with the Tyrells only after Renly is dead; Theon's departure from Pyke is not shown, and Dagmer Cleftjaw is a scarred old master-at-arms who is fond of Theon because Cleftjaw trained him when Theon was a boy; Arya is a scullion instead of a cupbearer and is not able to interact with Lord Tywin; and the character of Xaro Xhoan Daxos has been drastically changed making him a heterosexual of humble origins and giving him a vault that is never mentioned in the books.\n\nThe episode introduces the character of the pyromancer \"Wisdom\" Hallyne, played by the British actor Roy Dotrice. Dotrice is a personal friend of George R. R. Martin, since the two met while working on the 1980s hit TV series, \"Beauty and the Beast\" (Martin as a producer, and Dotrice playing \"Father\"). Years later, Dotrice was Martin's choice to read the audiobooks of \"A Song of Ice and Fire\", a work that brought Dotrice a Guinness World Record for the largest number of characters voiced in an audiobook.\n\nAfter the series was greenlighted, Martin wanted to involve Dotrice, suggesting Maester Aemon, Rodrik Cassel or Grand Maester Pycelle as possible roles. He was eventually cast as Pycelle, but he had to withdraw from the show for medical reasons and Julian Glover was cast to replace him. In the second season, with his health recovered, he was given the role of Hallyne.\n\nOther characters introduced in the episode are the Night's Watch ranger Qhorin Halfhand, played by Simon Armstrong, and the mysterious Quaithe, played by the German actress Laura Pradelska. This is also the first episode in which Pyat Pree (briefly seen standing in Episode 4) has any lines.\n\nThe episode's interior shots were filmed at The Paint Hall studios, close to Belfast, where the main sets are located. Also in Northern Ireland were filmed the scenes at Harrenhal (in a set built near Banbridge) and Pyke (at the port of Ballintoy). Renly's camp was once again filmed on the country's northern coast.\n\nAfter having filmed the Night's Watch storyline beyond the Wall in Irish forests for the first four episodes of the season, the producers decided that the unexplored land further to the north would be filmed in Iceland. According to the creator George R. R. Martin's vision of the setting, \"the area closest to my Wall is densely forested (...). And then as you get further and further north, it changes. You get into tundra and ice fields and it becomes more of an arctic environment. You have plains on one side and a very high range of mountains on the other.\"\nCo-Producer Chris Newman said that until then they had been able to reproduce the lands north of the Wall by adding artificial snow, but now they needed a bigger landscape. According to David Benioff, they always \"wanted something shatteringly beautiful and barren and brutal for this part of Jon's journey, because he's in the true North now.\"\n\nTo represent the Frostfangs and The Fist of the First Men, the production filmed at the glacier at Snæfellsjökull, and also at the glacier of Svínafellsjökull in Smyrlabjörg and the hills of Höfðabrekkuheiði (near Vík).\nThe other main location introduced in the episode was the gardens of Qarth, which were filmed at the Benedictine monastery of the Croatian island of Lokrum. The abandoned monastery was built in Gothic-Renaissance style in the 15th century.\n\nThe island of Lokrum is only 680 metres offshore from Dubrovnik, the location used for King Landing's exteriors, and can be reached by boat in 15 minutes. Coincidentally, Lokrum shares with its fictional counterpart of Qarth having peacocks among its distinctive features: Lokrum is inhabited by families of peacocks that were introduced to the island in the 19th century by the Austrian archduke Maximilian.\n\nThe first airing of the episode obtained 3.903 million viewers, which represented the series high to date, and a 1.9 in the 18-49 demographic. The encore airing brought an additional 0.8 million for a total of 4.7 million. In the United Kingdom, the episode was seen by 0.851 million viewers on Sky Atlantic, being the channel's highest-rated broadcast that week.\n\n\"The Ghost of Harrenhal\" received generally positive reviews. Review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes surveyed 12 reviews and judged 92% of them to be positive with an average score of 8.6 out of 10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"'The Ghost of Harrenhal' utilizes some unexpected character pairings to explore GOT's shifting power structure and build momentum leading into the second half of the season.\" James Hibberd from Entertainment Weekly found it \"one of the strongest season two episodes yet,\" Jace Lacob from Televisionary considered it \"sensational,\" and Matt Richental from TV fanatic called it \"another enjoyable, complex, involved Game of Thrones episode.\" IGN's Matt Fowler gave the episode an 8.5 out of 10, and at The A.V. Club David Sims gave it an A- and Todd VanDerWerff rated it B+.\n\nOne of VanDerWerff's criticisms of the episode is that it was too cluttered for him, treating important moments such as Renly's death in a matter of moments and moving away fast to the next thing. In his opinion this was because this was the first episode of the season to incorporate all the locations instead of omitting one or two. Elio Garcia of Westeros.org shared this view, saying that while many individual scenes were very good he missed a strong narrative thread connecting the multiple storylines.\n\nRenly's death received many criticisms: David Sims wrote that Renly's death \"came out of nowhere,\" Todd VanderWerff found it too rushed, and Elio Garcia said that due to director David Petrarca's mediocre direction choices, the effect of what should have been one of the most shocking scenes of the season was ruined. Garcia extended his harsh criticism to the scene depicting the aftermath of Renly's death and specially the decision to portray Loras' reaction to the murder of his lover with a contained grief instead of the book's homicidal rage.\n\nOn the other hand, the exchange between Arya and Tywin was unanimously praised, both in terms of acting and direction. Writing for \"The Huffington Post\", Maureen Ryan commended Maisie Williams for being able to hold her own in a scene with the charismatic Charles Dance. Another scene that was usually highlighted was Brienne's pledge of fealty to Catelyn Stark. Lacob described Christie's acting superlative, rendering a tragic air to Brienne, while VanDerWerff noted how Fairley's subtle performance with just a hint of tears and wavering voice made the scene almost a perfect one.\n\nOther aspects that were praised by the reviewers were the production choice of filming in Iceland due to the magnificence and beauty of the shots, and good work done by the CGI team in making the dragon look like a real animal. Also, the reviewer Myles McNutt who coined the term \"sexposition\" to describe the use of sex in the show, noted that this was the first episode that did not feature nudity.\n\nIn his ranking of the episodes of the series, Adam B. Vary of BuzzFeed criticized the episode, placing it at number 47 and citing \"tedious setup\" for his reasoning. Patrick Koch of WhatCulture was less critical, though he conceded that \"the episode is pretty bare in terms of plot developments.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "34639556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34639556", "title": "The Ideal Scout", "text": "The Ideal Scout\n\nThe Ideal Scout, also known as The Boy Scout, is the most famous work by Canadian sculptor R. Tait McKenzie (1867–1938). The original statue stood in front of the Cradle of Liberty Council at 22nd and Winter Streets in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, from 1937 to 2013. Replicas can be found at Boy Scouts of America councils across the United States, as well as at Gilwell Park in London, England, and at Scouts Canada's national office in Ottawa. The Smithsonian American Art Museum's database lists 18 copies.\n\nMcKenzie sat on the executive board of the Boy Scouts organization in Philadelphia for more than 20 years. Asked to produce a figure of \"an ideal scout,\" the sculptor chose several young scouts to model in uniform. In 1915, he gave the executive board an 18-inch bronze figure, together with rights to the royalties resulting from sales of copies. He said that the boy's uncovered head denoted reverence, obedience to authority, and discipline. The hatchet held by the scout is a symbol of truthfulness and the hope it would never be unsheathed for wanton destruction, but \"applied unceasingly to the neck of treachery, treason, cowardice, discourtesy, dishonesty, and dirt.\" \n\nMcKenzie's life-sized version of the work was unveiled at Philadelphia's Cradle of Liberty Council on June 12, 1937.\n\nA replica in Ottawa, Illinois, adorns the grave of William D. Boyce (1858–1929), founder of the Boy Scouts of America, who modeled the organization on Great Britain's Boy Scouts Association.\n\nThe Philadelphia headquarters was built by the Boy Scouts of America on city-owned land in 1929, with the council paying a nominal $1-per-year rent. In 2008, the City of Philadelphia filed an anti-discrimination lawsuit in response to the BSA's national policy of excluding openly gay scout leaders, demanding that the Cradle of Liberty Council defy the BSA policy, pay a market-rate rent on the building, or vacate it. The council won the lawsuit in Federal court, and the judge ordered the city to pay its $877,000 in legal fees. Instead, the city settled with the council, paying the bulk of its legal fees but requiring it to vacate the building. \"The Ideal Scout\" was removed in 2013.\n\nEric Hansen Park, Kenai, Alaska\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36474624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36474624", "title": "Transformational syntax", "text": "Transformational syntax\n\nIn linguistics, transformational syntax is a derivational approach to syntax that developed from the extended standard theory of generative grammar originally proposed by Noam Chomsky in his books \"Syntactic Structures\" and \"Aspects of the Theory of Syntax\". It emerged from a need to improve on approaches to grammar in structural linguistics. \n\nParticularly in early incarnations, transformational syntax adopted the view that phrase structure grammar must be enriched by a transformational grammar, with syntactic rules or syntactic operations that alter the base structures created by phrase structure rules. In more recent theories, including Government and Binding Theory but especially in Minimalism, the strong distinction between phrase structure and transformational components has largely been abandoned, with operations that build structure (phrase structure rules) and those that change structure (transformational rules) either interleaved, or unified under a single operation (as in the Minimalist operation Merge). \n\nAccording to the Chomskyan tradition, language acquisition is easy for children because they are born with a universal grammar in their minds. The tradition also distinguishes between linguistic competence, what a person knows of a language, and linguistic performance, how a person uses it. Finally, grammars and metagrammars are ranked by three levels of adequacy: observational, descriptive, and explanatory. A core aspect of the original Standard Theory is a distinction between two different representations of a sentence, called deep structure and surface structure. The two representations are linked to each other by a set of transformation rules, the totality of these rules is what constitute grammar, and what a grammatical description of a language should present. Under this theory, a speaker must have access to both structures to interpret an expression.\n\nUnder this model, syntax was placed in the center of linguistic research and sought to go beyond description. Scholars explored the formalism of syntax and psychology of grammar under this model. This led to more systematic research on linguistic data such as native speaker judgments and distinctions in grammaticality.\n\nMany notable linguists have written on the topic, including Andrew Radford, Rodney Huddleston, and Roger Fowler. Aspects of transformational syntax were revised or replaced under the Minimalist program.\n\nNon-transformational syntax describes competing models. The main non-transformational syntactic frameworks include head-driven phrase structure grammar, lexical-functional grammar, categorial grammar, and simpler syntax.\n"}
{"id": "49745429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49745429", "title": "Voluntary return", "text": "Voluntary return\n\nVoluntary return or voluntary repatriation is usually the return of an illegal immigrant or over-stayer, a rejected asylum seeker, a refugee or displaced person, an unaccompanied minor, and sometimes a second-generation immigrant, who is unable or unwilling to remain in the host country and who volunteers to return to their country of origin, or that of their ancestors.\n\nThe terms are used in slightly different contexts and can refer to:\n\nSome voluntary return programmes offer assisted voluntary return (AVR) and some voluntary return is spontaneous and independent without assistance.\n\nThe concept of voluntary repatriation was first developed in the 1969 Convention Governing the Specific Aspects of Refugee Problems in Africa. It was agreed that:\n\n\n\n\nThe UNHCR and the IOM offer assistance to refugees who want to return voluntarily and to other people in need of support for returning to their home countries. This includes administrative, logistical, financial and reintegration support. Many developed countries also provide assistance and voluntary return programmes independent from the IOM and the UNHCR. Support includes making travel arrangements and paying for the journey. Support may also include financial support so that returnees can make sustainable investments and can build their lives again. Connecting people with networks and groups in the country of origin so that they will get support from local organisations.\n\nWhen one takes part in assisted voluntary return programs (AVR), the applicant is giving up their claim as a refugee or asylum-seeker. Many times this includes a five year travel ban restricting the individual from returning to the host country , similar to deportation. According to interviews with IOM workers and files on return migrants who took part in their program, it is not uncommon for return migrants to feel pressured into applying to AVR programs due to financial hardships, lack of employment, fear of deportation, etc. .\n\n – Return and Emigration of Asylum Seekers Ex Belgium programme: This program is open to asylum seekers and third country nationals who want to return to their country of origin or to voluntarily emigrate to a third world country. As this program is voluntary, one can retract their application if ever they change their mind. Applicants are offered travel support, including counselling prior to departure, assistance during their flight and travel cost. Applicants are also offered some monetary compensation to get them to their home from the airport. Financial support is also offered to aid in the reintegration process, partially funded by the European Return Fund .\n\n\n\n\n – the Canadian government opted to not renew their 'Assisted Voluntary Return and Reintegration' pilot program in early 2015, after an evaluation by the Canada Border Services Agency. The program sought to reduce the number of failed asylum appeals and incentivize voluntarily leaving the country, but didn't achieve all it's objectives.\n\n – the Israeli government withhold 20 percent of asylum seekers' wages, in an attempt to encourage individuals to leave the country, where they will have access to the funds upon return to their homeland. The scheme was launched from May 2016, and currently applies to asylum seekers from Sudan and Eritrea.\n"}
{"id": "33275084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33275084", "title": "Wisdom (personification)", "text": "Wisdom (personification)\n\nThe personification of wisdom, typically as a righteous woman, is a motif found in religious and philosophical texts, most notably in the Book of Proverbs in the Hebrew Bible and other Jewish and Christian texts.\n\nThe Greek Septuagint, and both the Qumran and Masada Hebrew versions of Ben Sira conclude with a first-person character speaking in Wisdom's voice as in the Book of Proverbs, though it is not certain that this was not appended to Ben Sira from another work. A less clear personification of Wisdom is also found in the Cave 11 Psalm Scroll.\n\nWisdom literature is a genre of literature common in the ancient Near East. This genre is characterized by sayings of wisdom intended to teach about divinity and about virtue. The key principle of wisdom literature is that while techniques of traditional story-telling are used, books also presume to offer insight and wisdom about nature and reality.\n\nThe Sapiential Books or \"Books of Wisdom\" is a term used in biblical studies to refer to a subset of the books of the Jewish Bible in the Septuagint version. There are seven of these books, namely the books of Job, Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, the Book of Wisdom, the Song of Songs (Song of Solomon), and Sirach. Not all the Psalms are usually regarded as belonging to the Wisdom tradition.\n\nIn Judaism, the Books of Wisdom are regarded as part of the \"Ketuvim\" or \"Writings\". In Christianity, Job, Psalms, Proverbs and Ecclesiastes are included in the Old Testament by all traditions, while Wisdom, Song of Songs and Sirach are regarded in some traditions as deuterocanonical.\n\nSapiential books are in the broad tradition of wisdom literature that was found widely in the Ancient Near East, and includes writings from many religions other than Judaism.\n\nThe Greek noun \"sophia\" is the translation of \"wisdom\" in the Greek Septuagint for Hebrew \"\". Wisdom is a central topic in the \"sapiential\" books, i.e. Proverbs, Psalms, Song of Songs, Ecclesiastes, Book of Wisdom, Wisdom of Sirach, and to some extent Baruch (the last three are Apocryphal / Deuterocanonical books of the Old Testament.)\n\nPhilo, a Hellenised Jew writing in Alexandria, attempted to harmonise Platonic philosophy and Jewish scripture. Also influenced by Stoic philosophical concepts, he used the Greek term \"logos\", \"word,\" for the role and function of Wisdom, a concept later adapted by the author of the Gospel of John in the opening verses and applied to Jesus Christ as the eternal Word (Logos) of God the Father.\n\nAccording to Perkins, in early Gnosticism (1st-2nd century CE) a wisdom tradition developed, in which Jesus' sayings were interpreted as pointers to an esoteric wisdom, in which the soul could be divinized through identification with wisdom. According to Earl Doherty, a prominent proponent of the Christ myth theory, the Q-authors may have regarded themselves as \"spokespersons for the Wisdom of God,\" with Jesus being the embodiment of this Wisdom. In time, the gospel-narrative of this embodiment of Wisdom became interpreted as the literal history of the life of Jesus.\n\nPerkins further that a mythical story developed in early Gnosticism about the descent of a heavenly creature to reveal the Divine world as the true home of human beings. Jewish Christianity saw the Messiah, or Christ, as \"an eternal aspect of God's hidden nature, his \"spirit\" and \"truth,\" who revealed himself throughout sacred history.\"\n"}
{"id": "47010708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47010708", "title": "Womanless wedding", "text": "Womanless wedding\n\nA womanless wedding is a traditional community \"ritual of inversion\" performance, popular in the United States in the early 19th century. In this comic ritual, the all male cast would act out all roles of a traditional wedding party – including those of bridesmaids, flower girls, and the mother of the bride – while dressed in gowns and dresses. The event often raised money for charities, civic organizations, and churches.\n\nThe performances were so popular that scripts were developed around the idea, and the do-it-yourself theatrical productions were passed along from city to city. Some of the stagings included impersonations of notable Americans, such as Henry Ford and Charlie Chaplin. The performances were often performed by known groups, such as the Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC).\n\nEarly modern Europe, and American prior to the 19th century, used womanless weddings as a way to safely express social strains between classes. The actors were lower-class; would ridicule the social position of the upper-class through skits for entertainment purposes. The upper-class citizens benevolently approved of these acts as cultural acknowledgement of their status in society.\n\nWomanless weddings were performed throughout the United States, but most prominently in the upper Midwest and the South. Southern towns were already staging burlesque shows, and womanless weddings gave another opportunity to raise funds in the form of an admission fee.\nWomanless weddings traditionally raised funds for causes and organizations, such as a North Carolina womanless wedding which was attended by more than 1000 people to raise funds for the Parent Teacher Association.\n\nBy the 1990s actors were compelled to confront their personal apprehensions with “cross-dressing, same-sex intimacy, and homosexuality”, as portraying feminine roles within the skits no longer signified unwavering masculinity within the culture. By the 21st century, social changes and wanting to make a more “family-friendly” show caused performances of womanless weddings to adopt changing social standards, rather than slander others. Womanless Weddings were altered by removing all suggestive “gender confusion” through the sexual allusions of the scripts.\n\nA womanless wedding would include a skit of a wedding ceremony, sometimes followed by a reception. The skits would elaborately make fun of gender stereotypes or other gendered qualities that went against the cultural norms of the community. Common themes included opinionated women, premarital pregnancies, males who expressed more feminine qualities than societal standards, racial minorities, and “rural folk.”\n\nProminent male members of a community would typically be the actors of the womanless performances. Their status would allow for their outlandish performances of stereotypical imitations of the minorities of a community, and the conditions of a community that went against the social norms of the culture in the spirit of entertainment to be accepted by the community with humor, rather than backlash and their masculinity being questioned by a community.\n\n"}
{"id": "20557326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20557326", "title": "Zoia Horn", "text": "Zoia Horn\n\nZoia Markovna Horn (née Polisar; March 14, 1918July 12, 2014), born in Ukraine, became in 1972 the first United States librarian to be jailed for refusing to share information as a matter of conscience. Horn, an outspoken member of the American Library Association's Intellectual Freedom Committee, worked at Bucknell University in Lewisburg, Pennsylvania in the early 1970s. Horn was jailed for nearly three weeks for contempt of court after refusing to testify for the prosecution in the 1972 conspiracy trial of the \"Harrisburg Seven\" anti-war activists.\n\nHorn was born in Odessa, Ukraine in 1918, to a secular Jewish family of small businessmen and shopkeepers. She emigrated with her family to Canada in 1926 at the age of 8, then to New York City where she attended Brooklyn College and the Pratt Institute Library School. She first began working at a library in 1942.\n\nIn 1964, she won a Humanities Fellowship to the University of Oregon where she became active in librarians' organizations and conferences. She began working at the UCLA library in 1965, where she participated in daily vigils protesting the Vietnam War. She later recalled that she attended the protests \"always wearing good shoes and gloves, the proper lady-librarian,\" hoping to show that war protestors were \"ordinary folks.\" In 1968, she was hired as Head of the Reference Department at Bucknell University in Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, where she continued to work with peace activists.\n\nIn January 1971, Horn was contacted by the FBI, seeking evidence involving Philip Berrigan. Berrigan, a Roman Catholic priest and anti-war activist, was serving a sentence in a nearby federal prison for burning draft files concerning the Vietnam War. Berrigan, from his jail cell, was alleged to be plotting along with six other individuals (Harrisburg Seven), to blow up heating tunnels beneath Washington, D.C., and to kidnap Henry Kissinger, the national security adviser to President Richard Nixon.\n\nBoyd Douglas, a prisoner in Lewisburg Federal Penitentiary on a work/study program who also worked at the Bucknell library, relayed letters, allegedly including anti-war plot details and love letters, from fellow anti-war activists, including Sister Liz McAlistair, to Berrigan in prison. Horn and another library employee at Bucknell testified before a grand jury. During the trial, they were subpoenaed to testify for the prosecution, but Horn refused to testify at the trial on the grounds that her forced testimony would threaten intellectual and academic freedom. Horn served 20 days in Dauphin County Jail, but was released after the prosecution's case was found unreliable. At the time, the \"Los Angeles Times\" published a UPI photograph of Horn being taken from the courthouse in handcuffs and reported: \"Mrs. Zoia Horn Galloway, a former Bucknell University librarian, was jailed for contempt ... after refusing to testify despite being granted immunity.\"\n\nHorn was jailed for almost three weeks, \"for refusing to testify for the prosecution in the sensational trial of anti-war activists accused of a terrorist plot.\" Horn stated: \"To me it stands on: Freedom of thought — but government spying in homes, in libraries and universities inhibits and destroys this freedom.\"\n\nAfter her release from prison, Horn continued to speak out on issues of academic and intellectual freedom. At first, the American Library Association's Executive Board refused publicly to support Horn's stand against the government's attempts to intimidate and silence Vietnam War protesters. Later, after questioning Horn for hours, the Board reversed its stance and officially commended Horn for her \"commitment...in defense of intellectual freedom.\" Eventually she was given assistance by the association's Social Responsibilities Round Table, as well as the Leroy Merritt Humanitarian Fund and the Freedom to Read Foundation. Judith Krug, longtime director of the American Library Association's Office for Intellectual Freedom, has called Horn \"the first librarian who spent time in jail for a value of our profession.\"\n\nIn 1995, Horn published her memoirs, titled \"ZOIA! Memoirs of Zoia Horn, Battler for the People's Right to Know.\" In its review of Horn's memoirs, the Library Journal called Horn \"a courageous crusader.\" Horn continued to speak out on issues of intellectual freedom, including writing an article on a small-city Oklahoma librarian who was dismissed by the City Commission after being accused of supplying \"subversive\" materials (including subscriptions to \"The Nation\", \"The New Republic\" and \"Soviet Russia Today\") at the library. She also defended a gay librarian in Oakland, California who was \"attacked for creating a display of gay library materials,\" and speaking out against the Patriot Act. She spoke in opposition to libraries' proposals to charge fees, arguing that the \"payment of any fee in a public library\" resembles censorship in creating \"barriers to information access.\" In 2002, she was awarded the Jackie Eubanks Memorial Award and the Robert B. Downs Intellectual Freedom Award.\n\nHorn was outspoken in her opposition to the provisions of the Patriot Act concerning library surveillance, and allowing the FBI to obtain a warrant from a secret court for library or bookstore records of anyone connected to an investigation concerning terrorism or spying. Interviewed at age 84 by the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", Horn was asked about the FBI's monitoring of America's libraries. Horn said that her first thought was: \"Here we go again.\" Horn has criticized the law on grounds that it does not require any showing that evidence of wrongdoing is likely to be found or that the target of its investigation is involved in a crime. A librarian could be served with a warrant and must surrender records of the patron's book borrowing or Internet use and is prohibited from revealing the search to anyone — including the patron. Horn has encouraged librarians to protest against the Patriot Act by refusing to comply. She noted: \"They have (another) option, the option I took, to say this is not appropriate, this is not ethical in the library profession. It undermines the very essence of what a publicly supported library is.\"\n\nThe Intellectual Freedom Committee of the California Library Association annually awards the Zoia Horn Intellectual Freedom Award, which \"honors Californian people, groups, and organizations that have made significant contributions to intellectual freedom in California.\" Horn said of the award named in her honor: \"I have especially warm feelings toward this honor because the CLA has been very supportive of my efforts.\"\n\nHorn died on July 12, 2014 at her home in Oakland, California at the age of 96.\n\n\n"}
