{"id": "795050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=795050", "title": "Affluenza", "text": "Affluenza\n\nAffluenza, a portmanteau of \"affluence\" and \"influenza\", is a term used by critics of consumerism. It is thought to have been first used in 1954, but it was popularised in 1997 with a PBS documentary of the same name and the subsequent book \"\" (2001, revised in 2005, 2014). These works define affluenza as \"a painful, contagious, socially transmitted condition of overload, debt, anxiety, and waste resulting from the dogged pursuit of more\". The term \"affluenza\" has also been used to refer to an inability to understand the consequences of one's actions because of financial privilege, such as in the case of Ethan Couch.\n\nIn 2007, British psychologist Oliver James asserted that there was a correlation between the increasing occurrence of affluenza and the resulting increase in material inequality: the more unequal a society, the greater the unhappiness of its citizens. Referring to Vance Packard's thesis \"The Hidden Persuaders\" on the manipulative methods used by the advertising industry, James related the stimulation of artificial needs to the rise in affluenza. To highlight the spread of affluenza in societies with varied levels of inequality, James interviewed people in several cities including Sydney, Singapore, Auckland, Moscow, Shanghai, Copenhagen and New York.\n\nIn 2008 James wrote that higher rates of mental disorders were the consequence of excessive wealth-seeking in consumerist nations. In a graph created from multiple data sources, James plotted \"Prevalence of any emotional distress\" and \"Income inequality\", attempting to show that English-speaking nations have nearly twice as much emotional distress as mainland Europe and Japan: 21.6 percent vs 11.5 percent. James defined affluenza as \"placing a high value on money, possessions, appearances (physical and social) and fame\", which was the rationale behind the increasing mental illness in English-speaking societies. He explained the greater incidence of affluenza as the result of 'selfish capitalism', the market liberal political governance found in English-speaking nations as compared to the less selfish capitalism pursued in mainland Europe. James asserted that societies can remove the negative consumerist effects by pursuing real needs over perceived wants, and by defining themselves as having value independent of their material possessions.\n\nClive Hamilton and Richard Denniss's book, \"\", poses the question: \"If the economy has been doing so well, why are we not becoming happier?\" They argue that affluenza causes overconsumption, \"luxury fever\", consumer debt, overwork, waste, and harm to the environment. These pressures lead to \"psychological disorders, alienation and distress\", causing people to \"self-medicate with mood-altering drugs and excessive alcohol consumption\".\n\nThey note that a number of Australians have reacted by \"downshifting\"—they decided to \"reduce their incomes and place family, friends and contentment above money in determining their life goals\". Their critique leads them to identify the need for an \"alternative political philosophy\", and the book concludes with a \"political manifesto for wellbeing\".\n\nIn December 2013, State District Judge Jean Boyd sentenced a North Texas teenager, Ethan Couch, to 10 years' probation for driving under the influence and killing four pedestrians and injuring 11 after his attorneys successfully argued that the teen suffered from affluenza and needed rehabilitation, and not prison. The lawyers had argued that Couch was unable to understand the consequences of his actions because of his financial privilege. The defendant had been witnessed on surveillance video stealing beer from a store, driving with seven passengers in a Ford F-350 \"stolen\" from his father, and speeding at in a zone. Couch was also driving while under the influence of alcohol (with a blood alcohol content of 0.24%, three times the legal limit for an adult in Texas) and the tranquilizer Valium. At a February 5, 2014, hearing, Eric Boyles—whose wife and daughter were killed in the crash—said, \"Had he not had money to have the defense there, to also have the experts testify, and also offer to pay for the treatment, I think the results would have been different.\" In April 2016, a judge sentenced Ethan Couch to 720 days in jail after he violated his probation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38110068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38110068", "title": "Agricultural Museum, Egypt", "text": "Agricultural Museum, Egypt\n\nThe Agricultural Museum is a museum in Cairo, Egypt.\n\nThe Palace of Princess Fatima, the daughter of Khedive Ismail, was chosen to be remodeled to house the museum, and construction of the museum started in November 1930. During the planning of the museum the director of Hungary’s Royal Agricultural Museum directed the work. A Hungarian national, Ivan Nagy, was the first director of the museum which was opened in 1938.\n\nThe museum is made up of separate museums: the museum of Ancient Egyptian agriculture; museum of scientific models; museum of plant wealth; Syria\nmuseum; the Greek, Roman, Coptic, and Islamic museum; and the cotton museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "3561143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3561143", "title": "Armen Terzian", "text": "Armen Terzian\n\nArmen Terzian (1915–1989) was an American-Armenian American football official in the National Football League (NFL) from to . He was a field judge and wore uniform number 23.\n\nTerzian officiated an NFC Divisional Playoff game in December at Metropolitan Stadium between the Minnesota Vikings and the visiting Dallas Cowboys. Following a late Hail Mary touchdown pass by the Cowboys to take the lead, an angry fan threw a whiskey bottle that hit Terzian in the forehead, rendering him momentarily unconscious. He did not require stitches, but had to wear a large white bandage around his forehead for the final few seconds remaining in the game.\n\nThe following season, he officiated Super Bowl XI, also a Vikings' loss.\n\n"}
{"id": "30335959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30335959", "title": "Balanta language", "text": "Balanta language\n\nBalanta (or Balant) is a group of two closely related Bak languages of West Africa spoken by the Balanta people.\n\nBalanta is now generally divided into two distinct languages; Balanta-Kentohe and Balanta-Ganja.\n\nThe Balanta-Kentohe language is spoken by a total of 423,000 people on the north central and central coast of Guinea-Bissau (where as of 2006 it is spoken by 397,000 people, many of which can be found in the Oio Region) as well as in the Gambia. Films and portions of the Bible have been produced in Balanta-Kentohe.\n\nEthnologue lists alternative names as Alante, Balanda, Balant, Balanta, Balante, Ballante, Belante, Brassa, Bulanda, Frase, Fora, Kantohe (Kentohe, Queuthoe), Naga and Mane. The Naga, Mane and Kantohe dialects may be separate languages.\n\nBalanta-Ganja is spoken by 86,000 people (as of 2006) in the southwest corner of and the south of Senegal. Literacy is less than 1% for Balanta-Ganja. In September 2000, Balanta-Ganja was granted the status of a national language in Senegal, and as of then can now be taught in elementary school.\n\nEthnologue lists alternative names as Alante, Balanda, Balant, Balante, Ballante, Belante, Brassa, Bulanda, Fjaa, Fraase; dialects are Fganja (Ganja) and Fjaalib (Blip).\n\nBalanta has case prefixes and suffixes alternatively interpreted as a definite article dependent on the noun class. \n\nIn Senegal, Decree No. 2005-979 regulates the orthography of Balanta as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "47677316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47677316", "title": "Childhood obesity in Australia", "text": "Childhood obesity in Australia\n\nObesity is defined as the excessive accumulation of fat and is predominantly caused when there is an energy imbalance between calorie consumption and calorie expenditure. Childhood obesity is becoming an increasing concern worldwide, and Australia alone recognizes that 1 in 4 children are either overweight or obese.\n\nFor Australians aged between 4 and 17 years, obesity is a very concerning condition as once gained it is favourably harder to be liberated from. Short-term effects on children can mean a decrease in their psychological well-being (stigmatisation and poor self-esteem) as well as physical deteriorations such as sleep apnea, breathlessness and cardiovascular disease. With an increase risk of adult obesity being associated with childhood obesity there are numerous long-term effects that can ultimately hinder the life expectancy of individuals including the development of serious diseases.\n\nIn order to combat the worldwide epidemic of childhood obesity it is imperative that the issue is addressed in its early stages. The main preventative measures to be implemented include increasing physical exercise, dietary knowledge and decreasing sedentary behaviours.\n\nBody Mass Index (BMI) is a common and useful measurement of body fat that helps individuals understand the difference between being overweight and obese. The system can be used to calculate a persons Body Mass Index (BMI) by dividing their weight (in kilograms) by the square of their height (in meters). According to the World Health Organisation (2015) a BMI greater than or equal to 25 kg/m2 in adults is overweight and greater than or equal to 30 kg/m2 regards individuals as obese. \n\nUsing the BMI method, however, to measure a child's excess weight can encounter regular issues. The Body Mass Index is used to decipher an individuals excess body weight but not their excess body fat. In this way the measurements taken from a child who is at different stages of their sexual maturation compared to another may alter the reliability of the data. Other issues that may affect the results surrounding this method for children and adolescents includes their age, sex, ethnicity muscle and bone mass, their height as well as their sexual maturation levels. \n\nUsing the percentile ranking to determine whether or not a child or adolescent between 2–20 years old is overweight or obese inherits the same techniques as a BMI except the interpretation of the data collected is varied. Information gathered using the percentile ranking takes into consideration the childs age and sex, recognising that the amount of body fat regularly changes with age and sex. The BMI-for-age highlights the values among children of the same sex and age and categorises overweight adolescents as being between the 80th percentile and less than the 95th percentile. Obese children are classified as being equal to or greater than the 95th percentile. \n\nAlthough calculating an individuals BMI is the most recommended indicator it doesn't distinguish the risk of disease. Regular monitoring of fat distribution, genetics and fitness levels should be maintained to assess the likelihood of disease. Alternative ways in which an individual can have their weight assessed, other than a BMI test, includes measuring the circumference of their waist or using the skin fold test.\n\nAs early evolution has it, prehistoric ancestors in the form of hunter/gathers maintained the mentality that food supplies were unpredicted and their next meal was unknown. In this way, ancestors would eat whenever possible and efficiently store the energy absorbed as fat to use when resources were scarce. Since then, the environment in which we live in, has evolved rapidly with food supplies readily and effortlessly available. Consequently, the approach to conservation of energy from food has now been transformed into overeating and under-activity, generating a recipe of chronic disease and premature death.\n\nChildhood obesity has been a consistent health burden throughout the entirety of Australia’s history with close regard placed on genetics and an energy imbalance between calorie consumption and expenditure. Between 1985 and 1995 the number of obese children increased dramatically from both perspectives of boys (10.7% to 20.5%) and girls (11.8% to 21.1%) aged 7–15 and 5-17 in the two respective year brackets. In the 10 years that followed, until 2008, figures continued to rise from 21% to 25% resulting in a similar percentile for both males and females. In the 2011/12 Australian Bureau of Statistics- Australian Health Survey, statistics reiterated the lack of substantial preventative methods, highlighting a 1% increase and therefore a total of 26% of children aged between 5–17 years as being either overweight or obese.\n\nChildhood obesity is a worldwide epidemic that, in 2009, effected 155 million (1 in 10) 5-17 year olds. In regards to The International Association for the Study of Obesity, figures collected in 2013 highlight that Greece held the highest values for both overweight and obese boys and girls (44% and 38% respectively). Twenty four percent of Australian girls, according to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), were considered obese, ranking in at 10th out of 40 countries. \n\nBoth Spain and Canada reported the same statistical findings of 24%. In regards to obese and overweight boys, Australia is ranked 18th, showing an identical figure of 22% to that of the United Kingdom. The lowest ratings of obesity were displayed by Indonesia showing values of 11% and 8% respectively for boys and girls. In 2013, the World Health Organisation estimated that over 42 million children under the age of five were obese with 31 million of these living in developing countries.\n\nThe causes of childhood obesity can be based on both a combination of individual choices and socio-environmental adaptions with genetic factors playing an important role also. \nGenetics, according to the Australian Health Survey plays a primary role in determining obesity. In 2011/2012 it was recorded that 90% of the Australian population had inherited their obese tendencies due to the epigenetic modifications of their mothers during pregnancy. Interchanging closely with the genetic factor, the environment and individual temptations are also highlighted as contributing causes to the worldwide epidemic. The genetic configuration influences the tendencies to become overweight, and diet and physical activity determines to what extent those tendencies are elaborated.\n\nParents, guardians and teachers all play a key role in the mentality that children have towards certain types of foods as they develop. The first five years of a child’s life, when developing a familiarisation with solids, can ultimately have a negative influence on the foods that they give preference to in the future. “Treat” food consumption, which is a well- intentioned technique used by parents to reward their children, contributes to between 23- 24% of an individuals total daily energy intake (aged between 2–16 years old). \n\nWith no more than 20% being recommended daily, it is visibly clear that adults may not be allowing their children to develop an intrinsic motivation for healthy foods, ‘rewarding’ them with energy dense snacks such as potato chips, muffins and lollies. According to the Australian Dietary Guidelines 2013 a child aged between 4–8 years old should consume 1 ½ serves of fruit and 4 ½ serves of vegetable daily with individuals aged 9 and above recommended to consume “2 and 5”. \n\nParents can help to positively influence their child’s diet by being an active role model and eating a wide variety of fruits and vegetables themselves. Encouraging children to eat a variety of different nutritional snacks and making fruits and vegetables visually appealing through changing their shapes can also help to entice and excite children about fruit and vegetable consumption.\n\nIn order for an individual (children) to remain healthy, there must be a balance between the amount of calories consumed and the amount of calories expend (through physical activity). Socio-environmental factors that disrupt this energy consumption/ expenditure balance include changes to the economy (food costs), an increased dependency on cars and sedentary behaviours and an increased marketing of poor nutritional foods.\n\nAdvertising is a common aspect of today's society and is strategically conducted and presented and conducted to persuade consumers to respond in a particular way. Approximately 30% of advertisements conducted during children's television viewing hours in Australia are directed on food intending to influence children towards unhealthy food products. Companies such as McDonald's, in particular, have specifically created and designed their advertisements and commercials so that they are appealing and enticing to children. Through the use of bright alluring colours, the introduction of the Happy Meal, the strategic use of playgrounds and the Ronald McDonald character, it is evident that children are the main target audience (\"Super Size Me\"). \n\nIn a similar way, Australian sporting teams are often sponsored by companies who market unhealthy food products to children and young adults. Recent reports show that during a high-profile cricket match, the KFC (Kentucky Fried Chicken) logo was clearly visible for 61% of playing time and XXXX beer logo clearly visible for 75% of playing time in a similar event. As a country dominated by sporting heroes, with a strong child based audience during televised times, the inclusion of unhealthy foods and alcohol sponsorship may indicate to children that even their most idolised sporting heroes support such unhealthy products. \n\nSome children find it hard to grasp the concept of unhealthy products in the same way they have internalised the negative effects of smoking. Advertisements in Australia for tobacco smoking reflect the negative outcomes associated, through the use of graphic and gruesome images. Unhealthy food, in comparison, is not portrayed in the same light, despite the equality of consequences. Instead, commercials, billboards and television advertisements portray fast food and energy dense products with attractive colours and happy/ energetic staff members, persuading children to believe that high calorie junk food promotes a positive and rewarding experience.\n\nIn this same manner, to entice children, the value of energy dense products has also decreased making these products cheaper and more available to younger adults. Despite the prices of these items being reduced, the portion sizes coincidently have also risen, allowing individuals to pay less for more.\n\nAs a result of the radical development of technology over the past 30 years, individuals have adapted a less active mentality becoming increasingly more reliant on cars as a means of transport and succumbing to more sedentary behaviours. Individuals are more inclined to use a vehicle, bus or train as transportation as opposed to physically walking or riding a bike. This idle perspective that Australians are adopting is a clear contributor to the obesity epidemic. A study carried out in 2008 showing the relationship between walking and obesity in Europe, North America and Australia highlights that the countries with the highest levels of active transportation generally had the lowest obesity rates. The lowest rate of active transportation was seen in the United States (only 8%) and they also, coincidently, had the highest rate of obesity (34.3%).\n\nAnother contributor to the epidemic of childhood obesity has been the increase in sedentary pursuits. Sedentary behaviour includes the time spent using electronic media as a means of entertainment. Examples include: television, seated electronic games (iPad) and computer use, including educational or non educational pursuits. The Australian Governments Department of Health recommends that children aged between 5– 12 years should not be sedentary for more than two hours a day.\n\nThe socio-economic status of individual families has also been said to be a related cause for overweight and obese individuals. Children who grow up in families who have a lower income are more likely to be obese compared to those who have a higher income and are therefore brought up in higher socio-economic environments. Lack of playground equipment, dangerous roads, and unsafe neighbourhoods are all factors that contribute to a lower level of physical activity. \n\nThe financial status of a family has also been reported to be a key influence in the physical well being of children, as parents may not have the funds to support children in participating in extracurricular activities and physical activity in general. As a result of this, children are more inclined to spend their time partaking in sedentary activities such as watching television. Economic status is also shown to be a major contributor to obesity, as families tend to buy more affordable foods, those which are usually higher in fat and energy density.\n\nResearchers suggest that individuals with a low income are more likely to become obese and those who are more financially stable, less likely. Causation behind this issue is founded on the prices of nutritional-based foods being more expensive thus directing funds towards cheaper and more calorie-dense options such as fast food and takeaway. The minority of the costs of healthy eating, however, firmly outweigh the economic burden that is placed on both the individual and society caused by diet-related chronic disease.\n\nIn order to decrease the prevalence of childhood obesity in Australia both parents and teachers must together develop techniques that best encourage healthy eating. In association to this, parents must also develop stronger understandings of the specific foods that will either benefit or prove unfavourable to their children’s health. The establishment of in school programs that urge children to participate in physical activity is also imperative, introducing children to fun methods of exercising such as interactive games.\n\nShort-term prospects for children in Australia suffering from a Body Mass Index (BMI) of more than 25 kg/m include deteriorations in their physical health as well as a decreased psychological well-being. Children who are obese or overweight by the time they reach their schooling careers are likely to become victims of discrimination, bullying and teasing in the play ground. Individuals who are made to feel inferior for their physical appearance develop a self-conscious attitude towards their body image, leading them to foster feelings of depression, anxiety and incompetence. \n\nPsychological detriments of this sort can also have a negative effect on children’s ability to form relationships and make friends with peers. The social stigma surrounding the “perfect body image” can also be extremely degrading to adolescents who feel they are unable to meet the expectations of such situations causing further damage mentally and physically (anorexia and bulimia). From a long- term perspective obesity can also cause negative psychological effects on individuals who are discriminated and victimised in the work place. Food is also used as a psychological coping mechanism for overweight adults who indulge when they are feeling stressed, lonely and sad. The guilt felt as a result of this \"mindless eating\" can, in turn, cause people to feel anxious and distressed.\n\nThe physical implications of obesity in children include sleep apnoea, breathlessness, a reduced tolerance to exercise and orthopaedic and gastrointestinal problems including non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Children who reciprocate these physical health disadvantages tend to struggle to concentrate more in- school and find it harder to fit in, being marginalised due to the inability to partake in physical exercise. According to the Dieticians Association of Australia 25-50% of overweight or obese children with turn out to be obese as adults. \n\nLong-term effects of obesity, therefore, include cardiovascular disease (hypertension and high blood pressure) and particular types of cancers in particular colon, kidney and breast cancer. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is one of the most common risk factors associated with obesity being characterised as a buildup of fat within the liver cells. Musculoskeletal defects such as osteoarthritis are also said to have a strong link with obesity due to excessive amounts of weight being exerted on the joints. Individuals who have a Body Mass Index (BMI) that is equal to or greater than 25 kg/m2 are also said to have an increased chance of premature morality.\n\nAs a result of the alarming statistics involving the number of obese children in Australia the consequences have also been extensive to the economy. Between the ages of 4–5 years the costs of childhood obesity, according to the Longitudinal Study of Australian Children, has incurred significantly higher medical and pharmaceutical bills. The health system comprised direct health care, indirect health care, and burden of disease costs was estimated at $58.2 billion in 2008. Direct costs included 4 main medical conditions: cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes, osteoarthritis and specific forms of cancer with in-direct costs referring to productivity loss (premature morality and sick days) and burden of disease, financial and social costs. In particular cardiovascular accounted for $34.6 billion, cancer, $9.7 billion, type 2 diabetes $8.3 billion and osteoarthritis $5.7 billion.\n\nThe two most common forms of treatment that are crucial for individuals to carry out to combat obesity include changing to a healthier diet and increasing their physical exercise. In extreme cases, if children are morbidly obese bariatric surgery may be carried out.\n\nIn Australia, the “2 Fruit and 5 Veg” campaign is advertised to educate and encourage young children and adults of the necessary nutrients that are needed in a daily diet. For adults who are entirely responsible for the foods that their children consume, it is important that they are aware of the key strategies of a healthy regime. Adults should provide their children with a moderate to low fat diet by limiting the amount of energy dense meals they feed them, reiterate the importance of eating breakfast and encourage children to eat their vegetables. For young adolescents who have a BMI percentile of 80 or above, there are certain weight loss programs available that offer services specified in dietary advice and fitness coaching.\n\nIt is also imperative that parents and guardians are well informed regarding healthy eating for their children. Developing strategies on how to encourage their children to eat more healthy foods and grasping the knowledge on how to distinguish between high and low calorie based pre-packaged snacks is crucial.\n\nThe food industry also plays a huge part in promoting healthy foods as management from a dietary point of view. Methods include making wholesome foods widely available and affordable for their customers. Closely monitoring and managing the amount of fat, sugar and salt content that is in the foods that are sold is also important.\n\nPhysical exercise, in order for a child to maintain a healthy lifestyle, must be considered a fundamental aspect of their daily regime. The environment including both school and local neighbourhoods where children grow up are an important stimulus of physical activity. Sporting facilities, playgrounds and bike tracks are all encouraging features that influence the length of time a day that a child is physically active. The “Healthy Together Victoria” campaign run by St Pauls Primary in Mildura is a state government funded program that, according to World Health Organisation worker Timthoy Armstrong, is recognised worldwide with New Zealand, the United Kingdom and Canada all participating in similar exercises. The program in Victoria focuses on the health of its students by walking laps every morning and encouraging children to attend the healthy breakfast following, three times a week.\n\nAnother campaign that is run in Australia to educate and encourage individuals to regularly exercise is the “Find 30” initiative. Initially developed in 2008, the “find 30 every day” campaign encourages Australian candidates to participate in at least thirty minutes of moderate-intense physical activity as a bench mark for maintaining a healthy lifestyle.\n\nAlthough there are many short- term preventative methods in place to combat childhood, there are some individuals who return to their initial base weight and therefore might turn to surgical measures to achieve a more lasting effect. Bariatric surgery is an effective procedure used to restrict the patients food intake and decrease absorption of food in the stomach and intestines. Proecdures of this type are said to be able to reduce excess body weight of obese or overweight individuals by 50-75%, ultimately maintaining this weight loss for 16 years following.\n\n"}
{"id": "312259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=312259", "title": "Chinampa", "text": "Chinampa\n\nChinampa ( ) is a type of Mesoamerican agriculture which used small, rectangular areas of fertile arable land to grow crops on the shallow lake beds in the Valley of Mexico.\n\nAlthough different technology existed during the Post-classic and Colonial periods in the basin, chinampas have raised many questions on agricultural production and political development. After the Aztec Triple Alliance formed, the conquest of southern basin city-states, such as Xochimilco, was one of the first strategies of imperial expansion. Prior to this time, farmers maintained small-scale chinampas adjacent to their households and communities in the freshwater lakes of Xochimilco and Chalco. The Aztecs did not invent chinampas but rather were the first to develop it to a large scale cultivation. Sometimes referred to as \"floating gardens,\" chinampas are artificial islands that were created by interweaving reeds with stakes beneath the lake's surface, creating underwater fences. A buildup of soil and aquatic vegetation would be piled into these \"fences\" until the top layer of soil was visible on the water's surface. These agricultural lands received this nickname due to the illusion they caused. The bodies of land appeared to be \"floating\" on the water because the canals surrounded the chinampa plots. When creating chinampas, in addition to building up masses of land, a drainage system was developed. This drainage system was multi-purposed. A ditch was created to allow for the flow of water and sediments (likely including night soil). Over time, the ditch would slowly accumulate piles of mud. This mud would be then be dug up and placed on top of the chinampas, clearing the blockage. The soil from the bottom of the lake was also rich in nutrients, thus acting as an efficient and effective way of fertilizing the chinampas. Replenishing the topsoil with lost nutrients provided for bountiful harvests. Embarcadero-Jiménez and colleagues, tested the correlation between environmental parameters and bacterial diversity in the soil. It is speculated that a diverse array of bacteria can affect the nutrients in the soil. The results found that bacterial diversity was more abundant in cultivated soils than non-cultivated soils. In addition, \"the structure of the bacterial communities showed that the chinampas are a transition system between sediment and soil and revealed an interesting association of the S-cycle and iron-oxidizing bacteria with the rhizosphere of plants grown in the chinampa soil\".\n\nEvidence from Nahuatl wills from late sixteenth-century Pueblo Culhuacán suggests chinampas were measured in \"matl\" (one matl = 1.67 meters), often listed in groups of seven. One scholar has calculated the size of chinampas using Codex Vergara as a source, finding that they usually measured roughly . In Tenochtitlan, the chinampas ranged from to They were created by staking out the shallow lake bed and then fencing in the rectangle with wattle. The fenced-off area was then layered with mud, lake sediment, and decaying vegetation, eventually bringing it above the level of the lake. Often trees such as \"āhuexōtl\" (\"Salix bonplandiana\") (a willow) and \"āhuēhuētl\" (\"Taxodium mucronatum\") (a cypress) were planted at the corners to secure the chinampa. In some places, the long raised beds had ditches in between them, giving plants continuous access to water and making crops grown there independent of rainfall. Chinampas were separated by channels wide enough for a canoe to pass. These raised, well-watered beds had very high crop yields with up to 7 harvests a year. Chinampas were commonly used in pre-colonial Mexico and Central America. There is evidence that the Nahua settlement of Culhuacan, on the south side of the Ixtapalapa peninsula that divided Lake Texcoco from Lake Xochimilco, constructed the first chinampas in C.E. 1100.\n\nThe earliest fields that have been securely dated are from the Middle Postclassic period, 1150 – 1350 CE. Chinampas were used primarily in Lakes Xochimilco and Chalco near the springs that lined the south shore of those lakes. The Aztecs not only conducted military campaigns to obtain control over these regions but, according to some researchers, undertook significant state-led efforts to increase their extent. There is some strong evidence to suggest state-led operations for the “expansion” of the chinampas. This is sometimes referred to as the hydraulic hypothesis, which is directly related to a hydraulic empire , which is an empire that maintains power and control through the regulation and distribution of water. There is evidence to support the idea of state involvement, primarily the amount of manpower and materials it would take to build, turn, and maintain the chinampas. However, arguments about state control of the chinampas rely upon the assumption that dikes were necessary to control the water levels and to keep the saline water of Lake Texcoco away from the freshwater of the chinampa zone. This is plausible, but there is evidence that the chinampas were functional before the construction of a dike that protected them from the saline water. It is suggested that the dike was meant to drastically improve the size of the chinampa operation.\n\nChinampa farms also ringed Tenochtitlán, the Aztec capital, which was considerably enlarged over time. Smaller-scale farms have also been identified near the island-city of Xaltocan and on the east side of Lake Texcoco. With the destruction of the dams and sluice gates during the Spanish conquest of Mexico, many chinampas fields were abandoned. However, many lakeshore towns retained their chinampas through the end of the colonial era since cultivation was highly labor-intensive and less attractive for Spaniards to acquire.\n\nThe Aztecs built Tenochtitlan on an island around 1325. Issues arose when the cities' constant expansion eventually caused them to run out of room to build. As the empire grew, more sources of food were required. At times this meant conquering more land; at other times it meant expanding the chinampa system. With this expansion, chinampas' multiple crops per year became a large factor in the production and supply of food. Empirical records suggest that farmers had a relatively light tribute to pay compared to others because the annual tribute may have been only a fraction of the amount necessary for local needs.\n\nThe extent to which Tenochtitlan depended on chinampas for its fresh food supply has been the topic of a number of scholarly studies.\n\nAmong the crops grown on chinampas were maize, beans, squash, amaranth, tomatoes, chili peppers, and flowers. Maize was planted with digging stick \"huictli\" with a wooden blade on one end.\n\nThe word \"chinampa\" comes from the Nahuatl word \"chināmitl\", meaning \"square made of canes\" and the Nahuatl locative, \"pan.\" In documentation by Spaniards, they used the word \"camellones\", \"ridges between the rows.\" However, Franciscan Fray Juan de Torquemada described them with the Nahua term, chinampa, saying \"without much trouble [the Indians] plant and harvest their maize and greens, for all over there are ridges called chinampas; these were strips built above water and surrounded by ditches, which obviates watering.\"\n\nChinampas are depicted in pictorial Aztec codices, including Codex Vergara, Codex Santa María Asunción, the so-called Uppsala Map, and the Maguey Plan (from Azcapotzalco). In alphabetic Nahuatl documentation, \"The Testaments of Culhuacan\" from the late sixteenth century have numerous references to chinampas as property that individuals bequeathed to their heirs in written wills.\n\nThere are still remnants of the chinampa system in Xochimilco, the southern portion of greater Mexico City. Chinampas have been promoted as a viable model for modern sustainable agriculture, although one anthropologist disputes that they were sustainable.\n\nAs of 1998, chinampas are still present in San Gregorio, a small town east of Xochimilco, in addition to San Luis, Tlahuac, and Mixquic. Although many of these floating gardens were constructed and thoroughly tended to from the Postclassic Period through the Spanish conquest, many of these plots of land still exist and are in active use. \n\nMany of these chinampas have been allowed by present-day farmers to become overgrown. Some choose to use canoes to farm, but many are becoming increasingly dependent on wheelbarrows and bicycles for transportation. Other fields, such as some located in San Gregorio and San Luis areas, have been deliberately filled up. As the canals dry up, several of the fields are naturally joined together. Although not used for their original purpose, they are commonly used for cattle feed.\n\nAlthough many locals and farmers are happy to be returning to their agricultural roots, they are faced with several challenges. During the Spanish conquest, many of the lakes were drained. That unfortunately limited the agicultural capacity of the lakes such as the one at Xochimilco. In addition, in 1985, an earthquake struck, further damaging several of the canals. Other challenges include limited water supply, the use of pesticides, climate change, urban sprawl, and water pollution related to untreated sewage and toxic waste.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14159669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14159669", "title": "Chinese intellectualism", "text": "Chinese intellectualism\n\nThe current status of Chinese intellectuals reflects traditions established in the imperial period. For most of this period, government officials were selected from among the literati on the basis of the Confucian civil service examination system. Intellectuals were both participants in and critics of the government. As Confucian scholars, they were torn between their loyalty to the emperor and their obligation to \"correct wrong thinking\" when they perceived it.\n\nThen, as now, most intellectual and government leaders subscribed to the premise that ideological change was a prerequisite for political change. Historically, Chinese intellectuals rarely formed groups to oppose the established government. Rather, individual intellectuals or groups of intellectuals allied themselves with cliques within the government to lend support to the policies of that clique.\n\nWith the abolition of the civil service examination system in 1905 and the end of the last imperial dynasty in 1911, intellectuals no longer had a vehicle for direct participation in the government. Although the absence of a strong national government would have been expected to provide a favorable situation for maximum intellectual independence, other inhibiting factors - such as the concentration of intellectuals in foreign controlled treaty ports, isolated from the mainstream of Chinese society, or in universities dependent on government financing - remained. Probably the greatest obstacle to the development of an intellectual community free of outside control was the rising tide of nationalism coupled with the fear of being accused of selling out to foreign interests.\n\nIn 1927 the newly established Guomindang government in Nanjing attempted to establish an intellectual orthodoxy based on the ideas of Sun Yat-sen, but intellectuals continued to operate with a certain degree of freedom in universities and treaty ports. Following the Japanese invasion and occupation of large parts of China in 1937, the Guomindang government tightened control over every aspect of life, causing a large number of dissident intellectuals to seek refuge in Communist-administered areas or in Hong Kong.\n\nWhen the People's Republic of China was established in 1949, intellectuals came under strict government control. Educated overseas Chinese were invited to return home, and those intellectuals who remained in China were urged to contribute their technical expertise to rebuilding the country. Intellectuals were expected to serve the party and the state. Independent thinking was stifled, and political dissent was not tolerated.\n\nIn mid-1956 the Chinese Communist Party felt secure enough to launch the Hundred Flowers Campaign soliciting criticism under the classical \"double hundred\" slogan \"Let a hundred flowers bloom, let the hundred schools of thought contend.\" \"Let a hundred flowers bloom\" applied to the development of the arts, and \"let the hundred schools of thought contend\" encouraged the development of science. The initiation of this campaign was followed by the publication in early 1957 of Mao Zedong's essay \"On the Correct Handling of Contradictions among the People,\" in which he drew a distinction between \"constructive criticisms among the people\" and \"hateful and destructive criticism between the enemy and ourselves.\"\n\nIn August 1957, when it was clear to the leadership that widespread criticism of the party and party cadres had gotten out of hand, the Anti-Rightist Campaign was launched to suppress all divergent thought and firmly reestablish orthodox ideology. Writers who had answered the party's invitation to offer criticisms and alternative solutions to China's problems were abruptly silenced, and many were sent to reform camps or internal exile. By the early 1960s, however, a few intellectuals within the party were bold enough to again propose policy alternatives, within stringent limits.\n\nWhen the Cultural Revolution began in 1966, party functionaries assumed positions of leadership at most research institutes and universities, and many schools were closed or converted to \"soldiers', workers', and peasants' universities.\" Intellectuals, denounced as the \"stinking ninth category,\" either were purged or had their work heavily edited for political \"purity\", which severely hampered most serious research and scholarship.\n\nFollowing the fall of Lin Biao, Minister of National Defense and Mao's heir apparent, in 1971, the atmosphere for intellectuals began to improve. Under the aegis of Zhou Enlai and later Deng Xiaoping, many intellectuals were restored to their former positions and warily resumed their pre-Cultural Revolution duties. In January 1975 Zhou Enlai set out his ambitious Four Modernizations program and solicited the support of China's intellectuals in turning China into a modern industrialized nation by the end of the century.\n\nThe Third Plenum of the Eleventh National Party Congress Central Committee in December 1978 officially made the Four Modernizations basic national policy and reemphasized the importance of intellectuals in achieving them. The policy of \"seeking truth from facts\" was stressed, and scholars and researchers were given freer rein to pursue scientific research. Most mainstream intellectuals were content to avoid political involvement and to take on the role of scholar- specialists within their spheres of competence, with the understanding that as long as they observed the Four Cardinal Principles they would be permitted to conduct their research with minimal bureaucratic interference. This was accomplished more easily in the natural sciences, which are generally recognized as apolitical, than in the social sciences, humanities, and the arts.\n\nThe first serious challenge to the more tolerant policy toward intellectuals came in 1980, as conservative ideologues in the military and the party stepped up their calls to combat \"bourgeois liberalization,\" a loosely defined appellation for any writing or activity believed to stretch the limits of the 'four cardinal principles'. By early 1981 opposition to \"bourgeois liberalization\" was focused on Bai Hua, a writer with the Political Department of what was then the Wuhan Military Region. Bai had long been a strong advocate for relaxation of cultural and social policy, but what especially alarmed the guardians of cultural orthodoxy was his screenplay \"Bitter Love,\" which depicted the frustrated patriotism of an old painter who faces misunderstanding and ill-treatment when he returns to China from the United States. When the screenplay first appeared in a nationally circulated literary magazine in the fall of 1979, it caused little stir. The motion picture version however, which was shown to selected officials, drew strong censure.\n\nA commentary in the April 18, 1981, issue of \"Jiefangjun Bao\" (Liberation Army Daily) accused Bai Hua of violating the four cardinal principles and described the screenplay as an example of \"bourgeois liberalism.\" The commentary was reprinted in the next month's issue of \"Jiefangjun Wenyi\" (Liberation Army Literature and Art), along with other articles critical of \"Bitter Love.\" Over the next few months the criticism was taken up by most civilian newspapers, and acting minister of culture, Zhou Weizhi, singled out \"Bitter Love\" for attack in a speech delivered to the Twentieth Session of the Fifth National People's Congress Standing Committee in September.\n\nFinally, Bai Hua yielded to the ostracism and wrote a letter of self-criticism addressed to \"Jiefangjun Bao\" and \"Wenyibao\" (Literary Gazette), in which he apologized for a \"lack of balance\" in \"Bitter Love\" and for failing to recognize the power of the party and the people to overcome obstacles in Chinese society. Bai Hua was out of public view for the next year but remained active, writing four short stories in the period. In January 1983 he was invited by the Ministry of Culture to participate in a Shanghai conference on film scripts, and in May of that year the Beijing People's Art Theater presented his new historical play, \"The King of Wu's Golden Spear and the King of Yue's Sword,\" thought by many to be a veiled criticism of Mao Zedong and perhaps even of Deng Xiaoping.\n\nAlthough the \"Bitter Love\" controversy caused considerable anxiety in the intellectual community, it is as noteworthy for what it did not do as for what it did do. Unlike previous campaigns in which writers and all of their works were condemned, criticism in this case focused on one work, \"Bitter Love.\" Neither Bai Hua's other works nor his political difficulties in the 1950s and 1960s were part of the discussion. In fact, as if to emphasize the limited nature of the campaign, at its height in May 1981 Bai was given a national prize for poetry by the Chinese Writers' Association.\n\nAfter a mild respite in 1982 and most of 1983, \"antibourgeois liberalism\" returned in full force in the short-lived campaign against \"spiritual pollution\" launched by a speech given by Deng Xiaoping at the Second Plenum of the Twelfth National Party Congress Central Committee in October 1983. In the speech, Deng inveighed against advocates of abstract theories of human nature, \"bourgeois humanitarianism,\" \"bourgeois liberalism,\" and socialist alienation, as well as the growing fascination in China with \"decadent elements\" from Western culture. Conservatives, led by Political Bureau member Hu Qiaomu and party Propaganda Department head Deng Liqun, used the campaign in an effort to oppose those aspects of society that they disliked. The campaign soon was out of control and extended to areas beyond the scope that Deng Xiaoping had intended, raising fears at home and abroad of another Cultural Revolution.\n\nBecause of the campaign against spiritual pollution, intellectuals (including scientists and managerial and technical personnel) and party and government cadres were hesitant to take any action that could expose them to criticism. Peasants, whose production had greatly increased under the responsibility system adopted in 1981, felt uncertain about the future course of central policy. Because of this, many of them returned their specialized certificates and contracts to local authorities, sold their equipment, and lowered production targets. Many ordinary citizens, especially the young, resented the sudden interference in their private lives. Foreign businessmen and government leaders expressed serious reservations about the investment climate and China's policy of opening to the world.\n\nBecause of these adverse results, the central leadership reevaluated the campaign and limited it to theoretical, literary, and artistic circles and did not permit it to extend to science and technology, the economy, or rural areas. All ideological, theoretical, literary, and artistic issues were to be settled through discussion, criticism, and self-criticism, without resorting to labeling or attacks. By January 1984 the campaign against spiritual pollution had died out, and attention was once more turned to reducing leftist influence in government and society.\n\nFollowing the campaign's failure, and perhaps because of it, the position and security of intellectuals improved significantly. In 1984 the party and government turned their attention to promoting urban economic reforms. A more positive approach to academic and cultural pursuits was reflected in periodic exhortations in the official press calling on the people to support and encourage the building of \"socialist spiritual civilization,\" a term used to denote general intellectual activity, including ethics and morality, science, and culture.\n\nWriters and other intellectuals were heartened by a speech delivered by Hu Qili, secretary of the party Secretariat, to the Fourth National Writers' Congress (December 29, 1984, to January 5, 1985). In the speech, Hu decried the political excesses that produced derogatory labels and decrees about what writers should and should not write and called literary freedom \"a vital part of socialist literature.\" But as writers began to test the limits of the free expression called for by Hu Qili, they were reminded of their \"social responsibilities,\" a thinly veiled warning for them to use self-censorship and to remain within the limits of free expression.\n\nThese limits, still poorly defined, were tested once again when Song Longxian, a young researcher at Nanjing University, using the pseudonym Ma Ding, published an article entitled \"Ten Changes in Contemporary Chinese Economic Research\" in the November 2, 1985, issue of the trade union paper \"Gongren Ribao\" (Workers' Daily). The article urged a pragmatic approach to economic theory and sharply attacked much previous economic research. A somewhat toned-downed version was republished in a subsequent issue of \"Beijing Review\", a weekly magazine for foreign readers, and immediately became the center of a controversy continuing well into 1986. Ma Ding's supporters, however, far outnumbered his critics and included some important government officials.\n\nIn May 1986 the editor of \"Gongren Ribao\", writing in another economic journal, summed up the controversy. He termed the criticism of the article of far greater significance than the article itself and commended the \"related departments\" for handling the \"Ma Ding incident very prudently\" and \"relatively satisfactorily,\" but he expressed the hope that \"more people in our country, particularly leaders,\" would join in \"providing powerful protection to the theoretical workers who are brave enough to explore.\"\n\nIn 1986 there were numerous calls for a new Hundred Flowers Campaign, and there were indications that these calls were being orchestrated from the top. At a May 1986 conference to commemorate the thirtieth anniversary of the original Hundred Flowers Campaign, Zhu Houze, new head of the party's Propaganda Department, sounded the keynote when he said, \"Only through the comparison and contention of different viewpoints and ideas can people gradually arrive at a truthful understanding...\" Qin Jianxian, editor of \"Shijie Jingji Daobao\" (World Economic Journal), carried this theme further when he called for \"unprecedented shocks to political, economic, and social life as well as to people's ideas, spiritual state, lifestyle, and thinking methods.\"\n\nIn a July 1986 interview with \"Beijing Review\", Wang Meng, the newly appointed minister of culture, held out great expectations for a new Hundred Flowers Campaign that he said \"could arouse the enthusiasm of writers and artists and give them the leeway to display their individual artistic character.\" During the summer of 1986, expectations were raised for a resolution to come out of the Sixth Plenum of the Twelfth National Party Congress Central Committee in September, a resolution that General Secretary Hu Yaobang promised would have a \"profound influence on the development of spiritual civilization.\" The actual document, however, was a watered-down compromise that fell far short of expectations. It became clear that intellectual policy was not a matter to be easily resolved in the short-term but required lengthy debate.\n\n"}
{"id": "35190502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35190502", "title": "Chundawat", "text": "Chundawat\n\nChundawats are a Rajput clan and were powerful chiefs in the Mewar region during the 1700s.\n"}
{"id": "21399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21399", "title": "Communications in Niue", "text": "Communications in Niue\n\nCommunications in Niue include postal, telephone, internet, press and radio.\n\nPostal services are through the Niue Post Office.\n\nTelephone service is provided by Telecom Niue, the sole provider, which services 1,100 landlines and fixed wireless lines. It also operates a cellular telephone service on the AMPS and GSM platforms.\n\nTelephones - main lines in use:\n1,100 (800 land line, 300 fixed wireless) (2003)\n\nTelephones - mobile cellular:\nundisclosed (excludes 300 fixed wireless) (2003)\n\nTelephones - GSM mobile cellular:\nundisclosed (2011)\n\nTelephone system:\n<br>\"domestic:\"\nsingle-line telephone system connects all villages on island\n<br>\"international:\"\nprovided by Telecom Niue (IDD code: 683)\n\nRadio broadcast stations:\nAM 1, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998)\n\nRadios:\n1,000 (1997)\n\nTelevision broadcast stations:\n1 (1997)\n\nTelevisions:\nNA\n\nNiue has only one printed newspaper, the \"Niue Star\", founded in 1993. Until 2002, the Auckland-based Pasifika Times was also circulated in Niue.\n\nNiue has free Internet service through the efforts of the Internet Users Society Niue, established 1999. However users need to pay NZD$25 to a local IT company to register the MAC address of their WiFi card before being able to log into this WiFi network.\n\nAlternatively, where ADSL is available, users can have connections through Telecom Niue's Internet Services located at Alofi through their island-wide distributed wireline.\n\nThe .nu TLD is assigned to Niue.\n\nNiue, through an outside company, registers Internet domain names, so most .nu web addresses are not actually located in Niue. They are commonly used by Danish, Dutch and Swedish websites, because in those languages 'nu' means “now”.\n\nNiue was the first country in the world to plan on offering free nationwide WiFi internet access, using the funds provided by the domain registrations. 95% of Niueans now have internet access at home, work or through the schools, making it the country with the highest per capita internet penetration in the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "2400544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2400544", "title": "Culture of Tatarstan", "text": "Culture of Tatarstan\n\nThe culture of Tatarstan is molded from the culture of Volga Tatar people, Russian, and European culture.\n\nThe education system in Tatarstan is secular. The literacy rate for the total population is about 100%. Elementary and secondary education is compulsory (grades 1–10). Students must pass graduation exams at the end of the 10th grade in order to continue their education in colleges and universities. Most schools are public along with a small number of parochial schools run by churches or mosques. The school year begins in September. Kazan State University is one of the major centers of higher education in Russia. There are several colleges, institutes, and technical schools in Kazan and other cities of the republic.\n\nMajor libraries include the Science Library of Kazan State University and the National Library of the Republic of Tatarstan. There are two museums of republican significance, as well as 90 museums of local importance. In the past several years new museums appeared throughout the Republic.\n\nTraditional (folk) Tatar music is based on the pentatonic scale. The first Tatar opera was staged in 1925. It was composed by Sultan Gabyashi in collaboration with Vasili Vinogradov. Farit Yarullin was the creator of the first Tatar ballet, known as \"Surale\". Modern Tatar music includes practically all existing musical genres.\n\nThere are 16 professional and dozens of amateur theaters in Tatarstan performing plays in Tatar, Russian, and other local languages.\n\nIn Tatarstan, religion and the state are separate from each other, although as in the rest of Russia, religious authorities are subordinated to the state. The most common faith are Sunni Islam and Russian Orthodoxy. As of 2004, there were 1,208 buildings used for religious purposes in Tatarstan; 1,014 of which were Islamic, and 176—Russian Orthodox.\n\n"}
{"id": "3023768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3023768", "title": "Daniel Boone May", "text": "Daniel Boone May\n\nDaniel Boone May (1852 – Unk), known as Boone May, was an American gunfighter, of the Black Hills of South Dakota. \n\nMay was born in Missouri. He was employed as a shotgun messenger by the Cheyenne and Black Hills Stage & Express Company during the late 1870s.\n\nReputedly the \"fastest gun in the Dakotas\", he had the reputation that \"his corpses were invariably those of undesirable citizens, never of the law abiding.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "46279137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46279137", "title": "Dodo ikire", "text": "Dodo ikire\n\nDodo Ikire is a traditional delicacy from Ikire in South-western Nigeria. It was originally made from leftover plantain but today, people prepare it from fresh ingredients which are: over-ripe plantains, pepper, oil and salt. Dodo Ikire is black and round or conical in shape.\n\nPlantain, which has been peeled, sliced and deep fried is called Dodo in some parts of Nigeria.\nLegend has it that Dodo Ikire was created as an experiment by a poor, old lady from a town called Ikire. Ikire is a town in the South-western area of Nigeria between the cities of Ibadan and Ile-Ife, in Osun State.\n\nThis old lady had no food left except the over-ripe plantains, which she would have normally throw in the bin, but she decided to mash it all up with some salt and pepper and deep-fry it in palm oil. She ate it, enjoyed it and decided to make more and share with her neighbours.\n\nThe end result is what is now known as Dodo Ikire, named after the town it originated from.\nIt is sold mostly in the South-western part of Nigeria.\n\n"}
{"id": "36972894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36972894", "title": "Eritrean Italian", "text": "Eritrean Italian\n\nEritrean Italian is a name given to the Italian language used in Northeast African nation of Eritrea.\n\nItalian is a legacy of Italian colonial period when Eritrea was part of Italian East Africa. In fact, \"Eritrea\" is the Italian form of the Greek name Ἐρυθραίᾱ (\"Erythraíā \"), meaning \"red [land]\". Although it was the primary language since colonial rule, Italian greatly declined after the Italian defeat in World War II in 1941 when the territory was put under British military rule. Successively the use of the Italian language experienced suffering under war of independence.\n\nBecause of this, many Italians and Italian-educated people were expelled under British military rule and many Italian-educated people left when war of independence broke out.\n\nHowever, Italian is still widely spoken and understood and remains a principal language in commerce and education in Eritrea; the capital city Asmara still has an Italian-language school since the colonial decades. Refugees -born in Italy or Italian areas of Switzerland and their children born in Italian Eritrea (who speak Italian and have formed communities in Eritrea)- now maintain associations of Italo-Eritreans in Italy\n\nNearly 10% of the population of the capital Asmara is still able in 2018 to understand the Italian language and some old Eritreans still speak some words and phrases in Italian, according to the Italian ambassador. He pinpointed that some Italian words are commonly used in the Eritrean language, like \"pizza\".\n\nWhile phonology and intonation are affected by native Eritrean languages, including Tigrinya and Arabic, Eritrean Italian is based on standard European form. The Italian lexicon in Eritrea has some loanwords of Tigrinya and Arabic origin (the latter especially includes Islamic terms). On the other hand, the Italian languages has given to the Tigrinya language many hundreds of loanwords.\n\nNearly two hundreds Italian words are used commonly in the Eritrean spoken in Asmara, from \"pizza\" to \"spagueti\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "225445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225445", "title": "Espionage Act of 1917", "text": "Espionage Act of 1917\n\nThe Espionage Act of 1917 is a United States federal law passed on June 15, 1917, shortly after the U.S. entry into World War I. It has been amended numerous times over the years. It was originally found in Title 50 of the U.S. Code (War) but is now found under Title 18, Crime. Specifically, it is ( et seq.)\n\nIt was intended to prohibit interference with military operations or recruitment, to prevent insubordination in the military, and to prevent the support of United States enemies during wartime. In 1919, the Supreme Court of the United States unanimously ruled through \"Schenck v. United States\" that the act did not violate the freedom of speech of those convicted under its provisions. The constitutionality of the law, its relationship to free speech, and the meaning of its language have been contested in court ever since.\n\nAmong those charged with offences under the Act are German-American socialist congressman and newspaper editor Victor L. Berger, labor leader and five-time Socialist Party of America candidate, Eugene V. Debs, anarchists Emma Goldman and Alexander Berkman, former Watch Tower Bible & Tract Society president Joseph Franklin Rutherford, communists Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, \"Pentagon Papers\" whistleblower Daniel Ellsberg, Cablegate whistleblower Chelsea Manning, and National Security Agency (NSA) contractor and whistleblower Edward Snowden. Rutherford's conviction was overturned on appeal. Although the most controversial sections of the Act, a set of amendments commonly called the Sedition Act of 1918, were repealed on March 3, 1921, the original Espionage Act was left intact.\n\nThe Espionage Act of 1917 was passed, along with the Trading with the Enemy Act, just after the United States entered World War I in April 1917. It was based on the Defense Secrets Act of 1911, especially the notions of obtaining or delivering information relating to \"national defense\" to a person who was not \"entitled to have it\", itself based on an earlier British Official Secrets Act. The Espionage Act law imposed much stiffer penalties than the 1911 law, including the death penalty.\n\nPresident Woodrow Wilson, in his December 7, 1915 State of the Union address, asked Congress for the legislation:\nCongress moved slowly. Even after the U.S. broke diplomatic relations with Germany, when the Senate passed a version on February 20, 1917, the House did not vote before the then-current session of Congress ended. After the declaration of war in April 1917, both houses debated versions of the Wilson administration's drafts that included press censorship. That provision aroused opposition, with critics charging it established a system of \"prior restraint\" and delegated unlimited power to the president. After weeks of intermittent debate, the Senate removed the censorship provision by a one-vote margin, voting 39 to 38. Wilson still insisted it was needed: \"Authority to exercise censorship over the press...is absolutely necessary to the public safety\", but signed the Act without the censorship provisions on June 15, 1917, after Congress passed the act on the same day.\n\nAttorney General Thomas Watt Gregory supported passage of the act, but viewed it as a compromise. The President's Congressional rivals were proposing to remove responsibility for monitoring pro-German activity, whether espionage or some form of disloyalty, from the Department of Justice to the War Department and creating a form of courts-martial of doubtful constitutionality. The resulting Act was far more aggressive and restrictive than they wanted, but it silenced citizens opposed to the war. Officials in the Justice Department who had little enthusiasm for the law nevertheless hoped that even without generating many prosecutions it would help quiet public calls for more government action against those thought to be insufficiently patriotic. Wilson was denied language in the Act authorizing power to the executive branch for press censorship, but Congress did include a provision to block distribution of print materials through the Post Office.\n\nIt made it a crime:\n\nThe Act also gave the Postmaster General authority to impound or to refuse to mail publications that he determined to be in violation of its prohibitions.\n\nThe Act also forbids the transfer of any naval vessel equipped for combat to any nation engaged in a conflict in which the United States is neutral. Seemingly uncontroversial when the Act was passed, this later became a legal stumbling block for the administration of Franklin D. Roosevelt, when he sought to provide military aid to Great Britain before the United States entered World War II.\n\nThe law was extended on May 16, 1918, by the Sedition Act of 1918, actually a set of amendments to the Espionage Act, which prohibited many forms of speech, including \"any disloyal, profane, scurrilous, or abusive language about the form of government of the United States ... or the flag of the United States, or the uniform of the Army or Navy\".\n\nBecause the Sedition Act was an informal name, court cases were brought under the name of the Espionage Act, whether the charges were based on the provisions of the Espionage Act or the provisions of the amendments known informally as the Sedition Act.\n\nOn March 3, 1921, the Sedition Act amendments were repealed, but many provisions of the Espionage Act remain, codified under U.S.C. Title 18, Part 1, Chapter 37.\n\nIn 1933, after signals intelligence expert Herbert Yardley published a popular book about breaking Japanese codes, the Act was amended to prohibit the disclosure of foreign code or anything sent in code. The Act was amended in 1940 to increase the penalties it imposed, and again in 1970.\n\nIn the late 1940s, the U.S. Code was re-organized and much of Title 50 (War) was moved to Title 18 (Crime). The McCarran Internal Security Act added in 1950 and was added the same year.\n\nIn 1961, Congressman Richard Poff succeeded after several attempts in removing language that restricted the Act's application to territory \"within the jurisdiction of the United States, on the high seas, and within the United States\" . He said the need for the Act to apply everywhere was prompted by Irvin C. Scarbeck, a State Department official who was charged with yielding to blackmail threats in Poland.\n\nIn 1989, Congressman James Traficant tried to amend to broaden the application of the death penalty. Senator Arlen Specter proposed a comparable expansion of the use of the death penalty the same year. In 1994, Robert K. Dornan proposed the death penalty for the disclosure of a U.S. agent's identity.\n\nMuch of the Act's enforcement was left to the discretion of local United States Attorneys, so enforcement varied widely. For example, Socialist Kate Richards O'Hare gave the same speech in several states, but was convicted and sentenced to a prison term of five years for delivering her speech in North Dakota. Most enforcement activity occurred in the Western states where the Industrial Workers of the World was active. Finally Gregory, a few weeks before the end of the war, instructed the U.S. Attorneys not to act without his approval.\n\nA year after the Act's passage, Eugene V. Debs, Socialist Party presidential candidate in 1904, 1908, and 1912 was arrested and sentenced to 10 years in prison for making a speech that \"obstructed recruiting\". He ran for president again in 1920 from prison. President Warren G. Harding commuted his sentence in December 1921 when he had served nearly five years.\n\nIn \"United States v. Motion Picture Film\" (1917), a federal court upheld the government's seizure of a film called \"The Spirit of '76\" on the grounds that its depiction of cruelty on the part of British soldiers during the American Revolution would undermine support for America's wartime ally. The producer, Robert Goldstein, a Jew of German origins, was prosecuted under Title XI of the Act, and received a ten-year sentence plus a fine of $5000. The sentence was commuted on appeal to three years.\n\nPostmaster General Albert S. Burleson and those in his department played critical roles in the enforcement of the Act. He held his position because he was a Democratic party loyalist and close to both the President and the Attorney General. At a time when the Department of Justice numbered its investigators in the dozens, the Post Office had a nationwide network in place. The day after the Act became law, Burleson sent a secret memo to all postmasters ordering them to keep \"close watch on ... matter which is calculated to interfere with the success of ... the government in conducting the war\". Postmasters in Savannah, Georgia, and Tampa, Florida, refused to mail the \"Jeffersonian\", the mouthpiece of Tom Watson, a southern populist, an opponent of the draft, the war, and minority groups. When Watson sought an injunction against the postmaster, the federal judge who heard the case called his publication \"poison\" and denied his request. Government censors objected to the headline \"Civil Liberty Dead\". In New York City, the postmaster refused to mail \"The Masses\", a socialist monthly, citing the publication's \"general tenor\". \"The Masses\" was more successful in the courts, where Judge Learned Hand found the Act was applied so vaguely as to threaten \"the tradition of English-speaking freedom\". The editors were then prosecuted for obstructing the draft and the publication folded when denied access to the mails again. Eventually, Burleson's energetic enforcement overreached when he targeted supporters of the administration. The President warned him to exercise \"the utmost caution\" and the dispute proved the end of their political friendship.\n\nIn May 1918, sedition charges were laid under the Espionage Act against Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society president \"Judge\" Joseph Rutherford and seven other Watch Tower directors and officers over statements made in the society's book, \"The Finished Mystery\", published a year earlier. The book had claimed that patriotism was a delusion and murder, so the officers were charged with attempting to cause insubordination, disloyalty, refusal of duty in the armed forces and obstructing the recruitment and enlistment service of the U.S. while it was at war. The book had been banned in Canada since February 1918 for what a Winnipeg newspaper described as \"seditious and antiwar statements\" and described by Attorney General Gregory as dangerous propaganda. On June 21 seven of the directors, including Rutherford, were sentenced to the maximum 20 years' imprisonment for each of four charges, to be served concurrently. They served nine months in the Atlanta Penitentiary before being released on bail at the order of Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis. In April 1919 an appeal court ruled they had not had the \"intemperate and impartial trial of which they were entitled\" and reversed their conviction. In May 1920 the government announced that all charges had been dropped.\n\nDuring the Red Scare of 1918–19, in response to the 1919 anarchist bombings aimed at prominent government officials and businessmen, U.S. Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer, supported by J. Edgar Hoover, then head of the Justice Department's Enemy Aliens Registration Section, prosecuted several hundred foreign-born known and suspected activists in the United States under the Sedition Act of 1918. This extended the Espionage Act to cover a broader range of offenses. After being convicted, persons including Emma Goldman and Alexander Berkman were deported to the Soviet Union on a ship the press called the \"Soviet Ark\".\nMany of the jailed had appealed their convictions based on the U.S. constitutional right to the freedom of speech. The Supreme Court disagreed. The Espionage Act limits on free speech were ruled constitutional in the U.S. Supreme Court case \"Schenck v. United States\" (1919). Schenck, an anti-war Socialist, had been convicted of violating the Act when he sent anti-draft pamphlets to men eligible for the draft. Although Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes joined the Court majority in upholding Schenck's conviction in 1919, he also introduced the theory that punishment in such cases must be limited to such political expression that constitutes a \"clear and present danger\" to the government action at issue. Holmes' opinion is the origin of the notion that speech equivalent to \"falsely shouting fire in a crowded theater\" is not protected by the First Amendment.\n\nJustice Holmes began to doubt his decision due to criticism from free speech advocates. He also met the Harvard Law professor Zechariah Chafee and discussed his criticism of \"Schenck\".\n\nLater in 1919, in \"Abrams v. United States\", the Supreme Court upheld the conviction of a man who distributed circulars in opposition to American intervention in Russia following the Russian Revolution. The concept of bad tendency was used to justify the restriction of speech. The defendant was deported. Justices Holmes and Brandeis, however, dissented, with Holmes arguing that \"nobody can suppose that the surreptitious publishing of a silly leaflet by an unknown man, without more, would present any immediate danger that its opinions would hinder the success of the government arms or have any appreciable tendency to do so.\"\n\nIn March 1919, President Wilson, at the suggestion of Attorney General Thomas Watt Gregory, pardoned or commuted the sentences of some 200 prisoners convicted under the Espionage Act or the Sedition Act. By early 1921, the Red Scare had faded, Palmer left government, and the Espionage Act fell into relative disuse.\n\nProsecutions under the Act were much less numerous during World War II than they had been during World War I. Associate Justice Frank Murphy noted in 1944 in \"Hartzel v. United States\" that \"For the first time during the course of the present war, we are confronted with a prosecution under the Espionage Act of 1917.\" Hartzel, a World War I veteran, had distributed anti-war pamphlets to associations and business groups. The court's majority found that his materials, though comprising \"vicious and unreasoning attacks on one of our military allies, flagrant appeals to false and sinister racial theories, and gross libels of the President\", did not urge mutiny or any of the other specific actions detailed in the Act, and that he had targeted molders of public opinion, not members of the armed forces or potential military recruits. The court overturned his conviction in a 5–4 decision. The four dissenting justices declined to \"intrude on the historic function of the jury\" and would have upheld the conviction. In \"Gorin v. United States\" (early 1941), the Supreme Court ruled on many constitutional questions surrounding the act.\n\nThe Act was used in 1942 to deny a mailing permit to Father Charles Coughlin's weekly \"Social Justice\", effectively ending its distribution to subscribers. It was part of Attorney General Francis Biddle's attempt to close down what he called \"vermin publications\". Coughlin had been criticized for virulently anti-Semitic writings. \n\nThe same year, a June front page story by Stanley Johnston in the \"Chicago Tribune\", headlined \"Navy Had Word of Jap Plan to Strike at Sea\", implied that the Americans had broken the Japanese codes before the Battle of Midway. The story resulted in the Japanese changing their codebooks and callsign systems. The newspaper publishers were brought before a grand jury for possible indictment, but proceedings were halted because of government reluctance to present a jury with the highly secret information necessary to prosecute the publishers, as well as concern that a trial would attract more attention to the case.\n\nIn 1945, six associates of \"Amerasia\" magazine, a journal of Far Eastern affairs, came under suspicion after publishing articles that bore similarity to Office of Strategic Services reports. The government proposed using the Espionage Act against them but later softened its approach, changing the charges to Embezzlement of Government Property (now ). A grand jury cleared three of the associates, two associates paid small fines, and charges against the sixth man were dropped. Senator Joseph McCarthy said the failure to aggressively prosecute the defendants was a communist conspiracy. According to Kleht and Radosh, the case helped build his later notoriety.\n\nNavy employee Hafis Salich sold Soviet agent Mihail Gorin information regarding Japanese activities in the late 1930s. \"Gorin v. United States\" (1941) was cited in many later espionage cases for its discussion of the charge of \"vagueness\", an argument made against the terminology used in certain portions of the law, such as what constitutes \"national defense\" information.\n\nLater in the 1940s, several incidents prompted the government to increase its investigations into Soviet espionage. These included the Venona project decryptions, the Elizabeth Bentley case, the atomic spies cases, the First Lightning Soviet nuclear test, and others. Many suspects were surveilled, but never prosecuted. These investigations were dropped, as can be seen in the FBI Silvermaster Files. There were also many successful prosecutions and convictions under the Act.\n\nIn August 1950, Julius and Ethel Rosenberg were indicted under Title 50, sections 32a and 34, in connection with giving nuclear secrets to the Soviet Union. Anatoli Yakovlev was indicted as well. In 1951, Morton Sobell and David Greenglass were indicted. After a controversial trial in 1951, the Rosenbergs were sentenced to death. They were executed in 1953, making their two sons orphans. The boys were adopted by another family. In the late 1950s, several members of the Soble spy ring, including Robert Soblen, and Jack and Myra Soble, were prosecuted for espionage. In the mid-1960s, the act was used against James Mintkenbaugh and Robert Lee Johnson, who sold information to the Soviets while working for the U.S. Army in Berlin.\n\nIn 1948, some portions of the United States Code were reorganized. Much of Title 50 (War and National Defense) was moved to Title 18 (Crimes and Criminal Procedure). Thus Title 50 Chapter 4, Espionage, (Sections 31–39), became Title 18, 794 and following. As a result, certain older cases, such as the Rosenberg case, are now listed under Title 50, while newer cases are often listed under Title 18.\n\nIn 1950, during the McCarthy Period, Congress passed the McCarran Internal Security Act over President Harry S. Truman's veto. It modified a large body of law, including espionage law. One addition was , which had almost exactly the same language as . According to Edgar and Schmidt, the added section potentially removes the \"intent\" to harm or aid requirement and may make \"mere retention\" of information a crime no matter what the intent, covering even former government officials writing their memoirs. They also describe McCarran saying that this portion was intended directly to respond to the case of Alger Hiss and the \"Pumpkin Papers\".\n\nCourt decisions of this era changed the standard for enforcing some provisions of the Espionage Act. Though not a case involving charges under the Act, \"Brandenburg v. Ohio\" (1969) changed the \"clear and present danger\" test derived from \"Schenck\" to the \"imminent lawless action\" test, a considerably stricter test of the inflammatory nature of speech.\n\nIn June 1971, Daniel Ellsberg and Anthony Russo were charged with a felony under the Espionage Act of 1917, because they lacked legal authority to publish classified documents that came to be known as the \"Pentagon Papers\". The Supreme Court in \"New York Times Co. v. United States\" found that the government had not made a successful case for prior restraint of Free Speech, but a majority of the justices ruled that the government could still prosecute the \"Times\" and the \"Post\" for violating the Espionage Act in publishing the documents. Ellsberg and Russo were not acquitted of violating the Espionage Act, but were freed due to a mistrial based on irregularities in the government's case.\n\nThe divided Supreme Court had denied the government's request to restrain the press. In their opinions the justices expressed varying degrees of support for the First Amendment claims of the press against the government's \"heavy burden of proof\" in establishing that the publisher \"has reason to believe\" the material published \"could be used to the injury of the United States or to the advantage of any foreign nation\".\n\nThe case prompted Harold Edgar and Benno C. Schmidt Jr. to write an article on espionage law in the 1973 \"Columbia Law Review\". Their article was entitled \"The Espionage Statutes and Publication of Defense Information\". Essentially they found the law to be poorly written and vague, with parts of it probably unconstitutional. Their article became widely cited in books and in future court arguments on Espionage cases.\n\n\"United States v. Dedeyan\" in 1978 was the first prosecution under (Dedeyan 'failed to report' that information had been disclosed). The courts relied on \"Gorin v. United States\" (1941) for precedent. The ruling touched on several constitutional questions including vagueness of the law and whether the information was \"related to national defense\". The defendant received a 3-year sentence.\n\nIn 1979–80, Truong Dinh Hung (aka David Truong) and Ronald Louis Humphrey were convicted under 793(a), (c), and (e) as well as several other laws. The ruling discussed several constitutional questions regarding espionage law, \"vagueness\", the difference between classified information and \"national defense information\", wiretapping and the Fourth Amendment. It also commented on the notion of bad faith (scienter) being a requirement for conviction even under 793(e); an \"honest mistake\" was said not to be a violation.\n\nAlfred Zehe, a scientist from East Germany, was arrested in Boston in 1983 after being caught in a government-run sting operation in which he had reviewed classified U.S. government documents in Mexico and East Germany. His attorneys contended without success that the indictment was invalid, arguing that the Espionage Act does not cover the activities of a foreign citizen outside the United States. Zehe then pleaded guilty and was sentenced to 8 years in prison. He was released in June 1985 as part of an exchange of four East Europeans held by the U.S. for 25 people held in Poland and East Germany, none of them American.\n\nOne of Zehe's defense attorneys claimed his client was prosecuted as part of \"the perpetuation of the 'national-security state' by over-classifying documents that there is no reason to keep secret, other than devotion to the cult of secrecy for its own sake\".\n\nThe media dubbed 1985 \"\". U.S. Navy civilian Jonathan Pollard was charged with , for selling classified information to Israel. His 1986 plea bargain did not get him out of a life sentence, after a 'victim impact statement' including a statement by Caspar Weinberger. Larry Wu-Tai Chin, at CIA, was charged with for selling info to China. Ronald Pelton was dinged for , , & , for selling out to the Soviets, and ruining Operation Ivy Bells. Edward Lee Howard was an ex-Peace Corps and ex-CIA agent charged with for allegedly dealing with the Soviets. The FBI's website says the 1980s was the \"decade of the spy\", with dozens of arrests.\n\nSeymour Hersh wrote an article entitled \"The Traitor\" arguing against Pollard's release.\n\nSamuel Loring Morison was a government security analyst who worked on the side for \"Jane's\", a British military and defense publisher. He was arrested on October 1, 1984, though investigators never demonstrated any intent to provide information to a hostile intelligence service. Morison told investigators that he sent classified satellite photographs to \"Jane's\" because the \"public should be aware of what was going on on the other side\", meaning that the Soviets' new nuclear-powered aircraft carrier would transform the USSR's military capabilities. He said that \"if the American people knew what the Soviets were doing, they would increase the defense budget.\" British intelligence sources thought his motives were patriotic, but American prosecutors emphasized Morison's personal economic gain and complaints about his government job.\n\nThe prosecution of Morison was used as part of a wider campaign against leaks of information as a \"test case\" for applying the Act to cover the disclosure of information to the press. A March 1984 government report had noted that \"the unauthorized publication of classified information is a routine daily occurrence in the U.S.\" but that the applicability of the Espionage Act to such disclosures \"is not entirely clear\". \"Time\" said that the administration, if it failed to convict Morison, would seek additional legislation and described the ongoing conflict: \"The Government does need to protect military secrets, the public does need information to judge defense policies, and the line between the two is surpassingly difficult to draw.\"\n\nOn October 17, 1985, Morison was convicted in Federal Court on two counts of espionage and two counts of theft of government property. He was sentenced to two years in prison on December 4, 1985. The Supreme Court declined to hear his appeal in 1988. Morison became \"the only [American] government official ever convicted for giving classified information to the press\" up to that time. Following Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan's 1998 appeal for a pardon for Morison, President Bill Clinton pardoned him on January 20, 2001, the last day of his presidency, despite the CIA's opposition to the pardon.\n\nThe successful prosecution of Morison was used to warn against the publication of leaked information. In May 1986, CIA Director William J. Casey, without citing specific violations of law, threatened to prosecute five news organizations–\"The Washington Post\", \"The Washington Times\", \"The New York Times\", \"Time\" and \"Newsweek\".\n\nChristopher John Boyce of TRW, and his accomplice Andrew Daulton Lee, sold out to the Soviets and went to prison in the 1970s. (Their activities were the subject of the movie The Falcon & The Snowman.)\n\nIn the 1980s, several members of the Walker spy ring were prosecuted and convicted of espionage for the Soviets.\n\nIn 1980, David Henry Barnett was the first active CIA officer to be convicted under the act.\n\nIn 1994, CIA officer Aldrich Ames was convicted under of spying for the Soviets; Ames had revealed the identities of several U.S. sources in the USSR to the KGB, who were then executed.\n\nFBI agent Earl Edwin Pitts was arrested in 1996 under and of spying for the Soviet Union and later for the Russian Federation.\n\nIn 1997, senior CIA officer Harold James Nicholson was convicted of espionage for the Russians.\n\nIn 1998, NSA contractor David Sheldon Boone was charged with having handed over a 600-page technical manual to the Soviets c. 1988-1991 ().\n\nIn 2000, FBI agent Robert Hanssen was convicted under the Act of spying for the Soviets in the 1980s and Russia in the 1990s.\n\nIn the 1990s, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan deplored the \"culture of secrecy\" made possible by the Espionage Act, noting the tendency of bureaucracies to enlarge their powers by increasing the scope of what is held \"secret\".\n\nIn the late 1990s, Wen Ho Lee of Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL) was indicted under the Act. He and other national security professionals later said he was a \"scapegoat\" in the government's quest to determine if information about the W88 nuclear warhead had been transferred to China. Lee had made backup copies at LANL of his nuclear weapons simulations code to protect it in case of a system crash. The code was marked PARD, sensitive but not classified. As part of a plea bargain, he pleaded guilty to one count under the Espionage Act. The judge apologized to him for having believed the government. Lee later won more than a million dollars in a lawsuit against the government and several newspapers for their mistreatment of him.\n\nIn 2001, retired Army Reserve Colonel George Trofimoff, the most senior U.S. military officer to be indicted under the Act, was convicted of conducting espionage for the Soviets in the 1970s–1990s.\n\nKenneth Wayne Ford Jr. was indicted under for allegedly having a box of documents in his house after he left NSA employment around 2004. He was sentenced to six years in prison in 2006.\n\nIn 2005, Pentagon Iran expert Lawrence Franklin, along with AIPAC lobbyists Rosen and Weissman were indicted under the Act. Franklin pleaded guilty to conspiracy to disclose national defense information to the lobbyists and an Israeli government official. Franklin was sentenced to more than 12 years in prison, but the sentence was later reduced to 10 months of home confinement.\n\nUnder the Obama administration, seven Espionage Act prosecutions have been related not to traditional espionage but to either withholding information or communicating with members of the media. Out of a total eleven prosecutions under the Espionage Act against government officials accused of providing classified information to the media, seven have occurred since Obama took office. \"Leaks related to national security can put people at risk,\" the President said at a news conference in 2013. \"They can put men and women in uniform that I've sent into the battlefield at risk. I don't think the American people would expect me, as commander in chief, not to be concerned about information that might compromise their missions or might get them killed.\"\n\nJeffrey Alexander Sterling, a former CIA agent was indicted under the Act in January 2011 for alleged unauthorized disclosure of national defense information to James Risen, a reporter for \"The New York Times\", in 2003 regarding his book \"State of War\". The indictment described his motive as revenge for the CIA's refusal to allow him to publish his memoirs and its refusal to settle his racial discrimination lawsuit against the Agency. Others have described him as telling Risen about a backfired CIA plot against Iran in the 1990s.\n\nIn April 2010, Thomas Andrews Drake, an official with the NSA, was indicted under for alleged willful retention of national defense information. The case arose from investigations into his communications with Siobhan Gorman of \"The Baltimore Sun\" and Diane Roark of the House Intelligence Committee as part of his attempt to blow the whistle on several issues, including the NSA's Trailblazer project. Considering the prosecution of Drake, investigative journalist Jane Mayer wrote that \"Because reporters often retain unauthorized defense documents, Drake's conviction would establish a legal precedent making it possible to prosecute journalists as spies.\"\n\nIn May 2010, Shamai K. Leibowitz, a translator for the FBI, admitted sharing information with a blogger and pleaded guilty under to one count of disclosure of classified information. As part of a plea bargain, he was sentenced to 20 months in prison.\n\nIn August 2010, Stephen Jin-Woo Kim, a contractor for the State Department and a specialist in nuclear proliferation, was indicted under for alleged disclosure in June 2009 of national defense information to reporter James Rosen of Fox News Channel, related to North Korea's plans to test a nuclear weapon.\n\nIn 2010, Chelsea (formerly Bradley) Manning, the United States Army Private First Class accused of the largest leak of state secrets in U.S. history, was charged under Article 134 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice, which incorporates parts of the Espionage Act . At the time, critics worried that the broad language of the Act could make news organizations, and anyone who reported, printed or disseminated information from WikiLeaks, subject to prosecution, although former prosecutors pushed back, citing Supreme Court precedent expanding First Amendment protections. On July 30, 2013, following a judge-only trial by court-martial lasting eight weeks, Army judge Colonel Denise Lind convicted Manning on six counts of violating the Espionage Act, among other infractions. She was sentenced to serve a 35-year sentence at the maximum-security U.S. Disciplinary Barracks at Fort Leavenworth. On January 17, 2017, President Barack Obama commuted Manning's sentence to nearly seven years of confinement dating from her arrest on May 27, 2010. \n\nIn January 2012, John Kiriakou, former CIA officer and later Democratic staffer on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, was charged under the Act with leaking information to journalists about the identity of undercover agents, including one who was allegedly involved in waterboarding interrogations of al-Qaeda logistics chief Abu Zubaydah. Kiriakou is alleged to have also disclosed an investigative technique used to capture Zubaydah in Pakistan in 2002.\n\nIn June 2013, Edward Snowden was charged under the Espionage Act after releasing documents exposing the NSA's PRISM Surveillance Program. Specifically, he was charged with \"unauthorized communication of national defense information\" and \"willful communication of classified intelligence with an unauthorized person\".\n\nIn June 2017, Reality Leigh Winner was arrested and charged with \"willful retention and transmission of national defense information,\" a felony under the Espionage Act. Her arrest was announced on June 5 after \"The Intercept\" published an article describing Russian attempts to interfere with the 2016 presidential election, based on classified National Security Agency (NSA) documents leaked to them anonymously. On June 8, 2017, she pleaded not guilty and was denied bail.\n\nOn June 21, 2018, Winner asked the court to allow her to change her plea to guilty and on June 26 she pleaded guilty to one count of felony transmission of national defense information. Winner's plea agreement with prosecutors called for her to serve five years and three months in prison followed by three years of supervised release. \n\nOn August 23, 2018, at a federal court in Georgia, Winner was sentenced to the agreed-upon length of time for violating the Espionage Act. Prosecutors said her sentence was the longest ever imposed in federal court for an unauthorized release of government information to the media.\n\nNumerous people have criticized the use of the Espionage Act against national security leakers. A 2015 study by the PEN American Center found that almost all of the non-government representatives they interviewed, including activists, lawyers, journalists and whistleblowers, \"thought the Espionage Act had been used inappropriately in leak cases that have a public interest component.\" PEN wrote, \"experts described it as 'too blunt an instrument,' 'aggressive, broad and suppressive,' a 'tool of intimidation,' 'chilling of free speech,' and a 'poor vehicle for prosecuting leakers and whistleblowers.'\"\n\nPentagon Papers whistleblower Daniel Ellsberg said, \"the current state of whistleblowing prosecutions under the Espionage Act makes a truly fair trial wholly unavailable to an American who has exposed classified wrongdoing,\" and that \"legal scholars have strongly argued that the US Supreme Court – which has never yet addressed the constitutionality of applying the Espionage Act to leaks to the American public – should find the use of it overbroad and unconstitutional in the absence of a public interest defense.\" Professor at American University Washington College of Law and national security law expert Stephen Vladeck has said that the law “lacks the hallmarks of a carefully and precisely defined statutory restriction on speech.” Trevor Timm, executive director of the Freedom of the Press Foundation, said, “basically any information the whistleblower or source would want to bring up at trial to show that they are not guilty of violating the Espionage Act the jury would never hear. It’s almost a certainty that because the law is so broadly written that they would be convicted no matter what.” Attorney and former whistleblower Jesselyn Radack notes that the law was enacted \"35 years before the word 'classification' entered the government's lexicon\" and believes that \"under the Espionage Act, no prosecution of a non-spy can be fair or just.\" She added that mounting a legal defense to the Espionage Act is estimated to \"cost $1 million to $3 million.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43669053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43669053", "title": "Fame and Philanthropy", "text": "Fame and Philanthropy\n\nFame & Philanthropy was a charitable fundraising event that took place on the evening of the 86th Academy Awards, March 2, 2014. Attendees of the event range from high-profile celebrities to leaders in business, entertainment, and politics. The fundraising event, first presented in 2014 at The Vineyard in Beverly Hills, featured a keynote speech from Academy Award winning director James Cameron, and was attended by actresses Charlize Theron and Halle Berry.\n\nThe event was founded and produced by Ryan Long (producer) through Fame and Philanthropy LLC. The event's primary purpose was to raise money and awareness for various charities including Community Inspiring Today's Youth (CITY), Charlize Theron Africa Outreach Project, The Compound Foundation, and several others. It was a showcase of Hollywood talent and one of several parties during the week of the Academy Awards with high media presence.\n\nJames Cameron, who delivered the keynote address, spoke actively about the various charities involved in the event. His address also praised the Oscar nominated films of the year and gave an insider view of the technicalities involved in film-making. A variety of celebrities were in attendance including:\n\n\nFollowing Cameron's speech, there was a headlining performance by Ne-yo, with Paris Hilton's and The Stafford Brother's DJ set concluding the night and after party. The event was generally well accepted by critics.\n"}
{"id": "6146816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6146816", "title": "Fareedi", "text": "Fareedi\n\nFareedi or Faridi (), is a clan of the Farooqi tribe named after Farīduddīn Mas'ūd Ganjshakar, a murid of a sheikh who belongs to the sufi order of Baba Fareed Shaker Gunj.\n\nDescendants of Farīduddīn Mas'ūd Ganjshakar, the Sufi Saint of Pak Patan in Pakistan. Most Fareedis live in Pakistan while some have moved to what is India now, mostly in the province of Uttar Pradesh, basically Badayun region. From there some moved forward to Bangladesh.\n\nMost Fareedis carry the name Farooqi but some carry the name Fareedi or Faridi. Some even carry the name Masudi or Masoodi. Those in charge of Farid's carry the title Diwan in addition to the name Farooqi.\n\nDuring the early days of the State of Hyderabad, the Fareedis came to Kannahar which was later named Kandahar after the conquest by Nizam's army which included Pethans from Kandahar. The Nizam appointed them judges, ombudsmen, and aldermen due to their ancestary with Caliph Umer Bin Khattab who was known as Farooq for his judgement. These judges were based in Parbhani but were spread in neighboring areas of Bhoker, Basmatnagar, and Palam. A detailed history can be found in the royal Nizam archives and the books \"Mashaheer-e-Qandhar\" (Nobles of Kandahar) and \"Khandan-e-Beed\" (Families of Beed).\n\nFamous Urdu crime fiction novelist Ibn-e-Safi created a character called Ahmad Kamal Faridi which became very popular in the second half of twentieth century among Urdu readership. However Ibn-e-Safi shows him as an Afridi and also a descendant of Genghis Khan. Afridis are Pashtuns in the tribal areas of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province in Pakistan while Fareedis claim their lineage of Caliph Umar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40075861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40075861", "title": "Farid Khan (politician)", "text": "Farid Khan (politician)\n\nFarid Khan (Urdu/) was a Pakistani politician who was elected to the Provincial Assembly of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa in the 2013 general election. Khan was an independent candidate from the PK-42 constituency of Hangu. He won the seat by securing 16,129 votes, defeating a Jamiat Ulema-i-Islam (JUI-F) contestant in the polls. He joined the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf upon being elected to the provincial assembly. He was assassinated on June 3, 2013 in Hangu.\n\nKhan was reputed to have come from a lower-income background and was said to possess only 100 rupees in his pocket when he had submitted his nomination papers before the election. His origins were in the Orakzai Agency of the tribal areas.\n\nOn 3 June 2013, unidentified gunmen opened fire on Farid Khan's vehicle while he was travelling in Hangu. Khan died as a result of the attack, while his driver and guard sustained injuries. Soon after the attack, security forces conducted a joint operation and arrested a local TTP commander in Hangu.\n\nOn 25 June 2013, police arrested a suspect named Asifullah in Islamabad who confessed to killing Farid Khan. According to police, Asifullah had been imparted terrorism training for four years.\n"}
{"id": "27227765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27227765", "title": "Fatafat Jayalaxmi", "text": "Fatafat Jayalaxmi\n\nJayalakshmi Reddy, whose popular screen name was Fatafat Jayalakshmi (also Phataphat Jayalaxmi) (1958–1980), was an Indian actress active mainly in Tamil and Telugu films. In Malayalam movies she was known as Supriya. She acted about 66 movies in Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam and Kannada within a decade of her career.\n\nShe made her debut in 1972 in A. Vincent's Malayalam movie Theerthayathra with screen name Supriya, followed by \"Ithu Manushyano?\" in 1973. In 1974 she made her Tamil debut in K Balachander’s film \"Aval Oru Thodar Kathai\" credited as Jayalakshmi. She became a household name with her popular dialogue ‘Fatafat’ (meaning quickly) which became her prefix. Her notable films include \"Aval Oru Thodar Kathai\", \"Anthuleni Katha\", \"Aarilirunthu Arubathu Varai\" and \"Mullum Malarum\". She had co-starred with top actors like Rajinikanth, Kamal Haasan, Krishna, NTR and Chiranjeevi.\n\nShe was married to the nephew of M. G. Ramachandran. She committed suicide by hanging in 1980 when she was at the peak of her career. There is suspicion of foul play in regards to her supposed suicide. Evidence would suggest that she was murdered by her abusive spouse.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7122479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7122479", "title": "Guruntum language", "text": "Guruntum language\n\nGuruntum is a Chadic language spoken in Bauchi and Alkaleri LGAs, Bauchi State, Nigeria. In 1993 it was spoken by about 15,000 people.\n\nGuruntum is a West Chadic language of the Barawa (B.3) group.\n\nMajor dialects include Kuuku, Gayar, Mbaaru, Dooka, Gar and Karakara.\n\nGuruntum contrasts long and short forms for all vowels except for . In addition, two nasalized vowel phonemes exist: .\n\nThere are two diphthongs, and .\n\n is realized as a flap intervocalically before back vowels; elsewhere it is a trill.\n\nGuruntum has four tones: high, low, rising (low-high) and falling (high-low).\n"}
{"id": "49779063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49779063", "title": "Heather Ann Thompson", "text": "Heather Ann Thompson\n\nHeather Ann Thompson is an American historian, author, activist, college professor, and speaker from Detroit, Michigan. She won the 2017 Pulitzer Prize in History for her work \"Blood in the Water: The Attica Prison Uprising of 1971 and Its Legacy\".\n\nThompson was born in Lawrence, Kansas. Her parents are Ann Curry Thompson, a labor lawyer in Detroit, and Frank Wilson Thompson, Jr, a professor of economics at the University of Michigan and Summer School lecturer at Harvard University. Her sister is Saskia Thompson (today Executive Director of the Detroit Land Bank). Thompson's early childhood was spent in Bloomington, Indiana and Oxford, England, but in her teen years the family moved to the North Rosedale Park neighborhood of Detroit, Michigan. Thompson graduated from Cass Technical High School.\n\nThompson earned a bachelor's and master's degree from the University of Michigan in 1987 and completed her PhD at Princeton University in 1995. Thompson was on faculty at the University of North Carolina, Charlotte from 1997-2009, and then on the faculty of Temple University in Philadelphia from 2009-2015. In 2015, Thompson returned to the Detroit area when she and her husband (historian Jonathan Daniel Wells), accepted faculty positions at the University of Michigan. Thompson writes about the history and current crises of mass incarceration for numerous popular and scholarly publications. Her work can be found in \"The New York Times\", \"Newsweek\", The Washington Post, Jacobin, \"NBC\", \"Time Magazine\", \"The Atlantic\", \"Salon\", \"Huffington Post\", and \"Dissent.\" She has also appeared on NPR, Sirius Radio, and various television news programs in the U.S. and abroad. Several of Thompson's scholarly pieces, including \"Why Mass Incarceration Matters,\" have won best article awards, and her popular piece in \"The Atlantic,\" \"How Prisons Change the Balance of Power in America,\" was named a finalist for the Best Media Award given by the National Council on Crime and Delinquency. Thompson is a Soros Justice Fellow, sits on the board of the Prison Policy Initiative, and recently served as well on a National Academy of Sciences blue-ribbon panel to study causes and consequences of incarceration in the U.S. Her books include: \"Blood in the Water: The Attica Prison Rebellion of 1971 and its Legacy\" (Pantheon Books, August 2016); \"Whose Detroit: Politics, Labor and Race in a Modern American City\" (2001, new edition 2017); and the edited collection, \"Speaking Out: Protest and Activism in the 1960s and 1970s.\" Thompson was also named a Distinguished Lecturer by the Organization of American Historians.\n\nThe culmination of more than a decade of research, \"Blood in the Water\" offers the first definitive account of the 1971 Attica Prison riot. The book was released in August 2016 to coincide with the forty-fifth anniversary of the country's largest prison rebellion and will shed new light on the riot, the state's violent response, and the decades-long implications of Attica for those involved as well as America's criminal justice system. Thompson's research for the book included interviews with former Attica prisoners, hostages, families of victims, lawyers, judges, law enforcement, and state officials as well as significant amounts of material never before released to the public.\n\nHeather Ann Thompson's 2001 book, \"Whose Detroit? Politics, Labor and Race in a Modern American City\" is a regularly cited account of Detroit's history during the tumultuous 1960s and 1970s. It is a comprehensive account of police brutality and the black political reaction to it in this period, as well as the underlying reasons for why Detroit became such a crucial site of black political activism and black political power after 1973. This book was published by Cornell University Press and a new edition of it is expected in 2017 on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the Detroit riot of 1967. This updated edition is expected to address issues currently facing Detroit as well such as its recent bankruptcy and the current challenges this city faces thanks to record rates of incarceration.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "402587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=402587", "title": "Husayn ibn Ali", "text": "Husayn ibn Ali\n\nAl-Ḥusayn ibn ʿAlī ibn Abi Talib (; 10 October 625 – 10 October 680) (his name is also transliterated as Husayn ibn Ali, Husain, Hussain and Hussein) was a grandson of the Islamic prophet Muhammad and a son of Ali ibn Abi Talib (the first Shia Imam and the fourth Rashid caliph of Sunni Islam) and Muhammad's daughter Fatimah. He is an important figure in Islam as he was a member of the \"Bayṫ\" (, Household) of Muhammad and the \"Ahl al-Kisā'\" (, People of the Cloak), as well as the third Shia Imam.\n\nPrior to his death, the Umayyad ruler Muawiya appointed his son Yazid as his successor in a clear violation of the Hasan-Muawiya treaty. When Muawiya died in 680 CE, Yazid demanded that Husain pledge allegiance to him. Husain refused to pledge allegiance to Yazid, even though it meant sacrificing his life. As a consequence, he left Medina, his hometown, to take refuge in Mecca in AH 60. There, the people of Kufah sent letters to him, asking his help and pledging their allegiance to him. So he traveled towards Kufah; however, at a place near it known as Karbala, his caravan was intercepted by Yazid's army. He was killed and beheaded in the Battle of Karbala on 10 October 680 (the 10th of Muharram in 61 AH) by Shimr ibn Thil-Jawshan, along with most of his family and companions, including Husayn's six month old son, Ali al-Asghar, with the women and children taken as prisoners. Anger at Husayn's death was turned into a rallying cry that helped undermine the Umayyad caliphate's legitimacy, and ultimately overthrow it by the Abbasid Revolution.\n\nHusayn is highly regarded by Shia Muslims for refusing to pledge allegiance to Yazid, the Umayyad caliph, because he considered the rule of the Umayyads unjust. The annual memorial for him and his children, family and companions occurs during Muharram, the first month of the Islamic calendar, and the day he was martyred is known as \"Ashura\" (the tenth day of Muharram, a day of mourning for Shi'i Muslims). Husayn's actions at Karbala fueled later Shia movements,\nand the martyrdom of Husayn was decisive in shaping Islamic and Shia history. The timing of the Imam's life and martyrdom were crucial as they were in one of the most challenging periods of the seventh century. During this time, Umayyad oppression was rampant, and the stand of Husain and his followers took became a symbol of resistance inspiring future uprisings against oppressors and injustice. Throughout history, many notable personalities, such as Nelson Mandela and Mahatma Gandhi, have cited Husain's stand against oppression as an example for their own fights against injustice.\n\nHusayn's maternal grandmother was Khadijah bint Khuwaylid, and his paternal grandparents were Abu Talib and Fatimah bint Asad. Husayn and Hasan were regarded by Muhammad as his own sons due to his love for them and as they were the sons of his daughter Fatima and he regarded her children as his own children and descendants. He said \"Every mother's children are associated with their father except for the children of Fatimah for I am their father and lineage.\" Thus, the descendants of Fatimah are the descendants of Muhammad, and are part of his family.\n\nHusayn had several children:\n\nHusayn was born on 10 October CE 625 (3 Sha'aban AH 4). However, Shia Hadith state that He was born AH 3.\nHusayn and his brother Hasan were the last male descendants of Muhammad living during his lifetime and remaining after his death. There are many accounts of his love for them which refer to them together.\nMuhammad is reported to have said that \"He who loves me and loves these two, their father and their mother, will be with me at my place on the Day of Resurrection.\" and that \"Hussain is of me and I am of him. Allah loves those who love Hussain. Hussain is a grandson among grandsons.\" A narration declares Hasan and Husain as the \"Masters of the Youth of Paradise\"; this has been particularly important for the Shia who have used it in support of the right of Muhammad's descendants to succeed him. The Shi'a maintain that the infallibility of the Imam is a basic rule in the Imamate. \"The theologians have defined the Imamate, saying: \"Surely the Imamate is a grace from Allah, Who grants it to the most perfect and best of His servants to Him\" Other traditions record Muhammad with his grandsons on his knees, on his shoulders, and even on his back during prayer at the moment of prostrating himself, when they were young.\n\nAccording to Wilferd Madelung, Muhammad loved them and declared them as people of his Bayt very frequently. He has also said: \"Every mother's children are associated with their father except for the children of Fatima for I am their father and lineage.\" Thus, the descendants of Fatimah were descendants of Muhammad, and part of his Bayt. According to popular Sunni belief, it refers to the household of Muhammad. Shia popular view is the members of Muhammad's family that were present at the incident of Mubahalah. According to Muhammad Baqir Majlisi who compiled Bihar al-Anwar, a collection of \"ahadith\" (, 'accounts', 'narrations' or 'reports'), Chapter 46 Verse 15 (Al-Ahqaf) and Chapter 89 Verses 27-30 (Al-Fajr) of the Qur'an are regarding Al-Husayn.\n\nIn the year AH 10 (AD 631/32) a Christian envoy from Najran (now in southern Saudi Arabia) came to Muhammad to argue which of the two parties erred in its doctrine concerning 'Īsā (, Jesus). After likening Jesus' miraculous birth to Adam's (Adem) creation,—who was born to neither a mother nor a father — and when the Christians did not accept the Islamic doctrine about Jesus, Muhammad was instructed to call them to Mubahalah where each party should ask God to destroy the false party and their families. \"If anyone dispute with you in this matter [concerning Jesus] after the knowledge which has come to you, say: Come let us call our sons and your sons, our women and your women, ourselves and yourselves, then let us swear an oath and place the curse of God on those who lie.\" Sunni historians, except Tabari who do not name the participants, mention Muhammad, Fatimah, Al-Hasan and Al-Husayn as the participants, and some agree with the Shia tradition that 'Ali was among them. Accordingly, in the verse of Mubahalah, in the Shia perspective, the phrase \"our sons\" refers to Al-Hasan and Al-Husayn, \"our women\" refers to Fatimah, and \"ourselves\" refers to Ali.\n\nMu'awiyah, who was the governor of Ash-Shām () under Uthman ibn Affan, had refused Ali's demands for allegiance, and had long been in conflict with him. After Ali was assassinated and people gave allegiance to Hasan, Mu'awiyah prepared to fight with him. The battle led to inconclusive skirmishes between the armies of Hasan and Mu'awiyah. To avoid the agonies of the civil war, Hasan signed a treaty with Mu'awiyah, according to which Mu'awiyah would not name a successor during his reign, and let the Islamic \"Ummah\" (, Community) choose his successor.\n\nAccording to the Shi'ah, Husayn was the third Imam for a period of ten years after the death of his brother Hasan in CE 669. All of this time except the last six months coincided with the caliphate of Mu'awiyah. After the peace treaty with Hasan, Mu'awiyah set out with his troops to Kufa, where at a public surrender ceremony Hasan rose and reminded the people that he and Husayn were the only grandsons of Muhammad, and that he had surrendered the reign to Mu'awiyah in the best interest of the community: \"O people, surely it was God who led you by the first of us and Who has spared you bloodshed by the last of us. I have made peace with Mu'awiyah, and I know not whether haply this be not for your trial, and that ye may enjoy yourselves for a time.\" declared Hasan.\n\nIn the nine-year period between Hasan's abdication in 41/660 and his death in 49/669, Hasan and Husayn retired in Medina trying to keep aloof from political involvement for or against Muawiyah.\nShia feelings, however, though not visible above the surface, occasionally emerged in the form of small groups, mostly from Kufa, visiting Hasan and Husayn asking them to be their leaders - a request to which they declined to respond. Even ten years later, after the death of Hasan, when Iraqis turned to his younger brother, Husayn, concerning an uprising, Husayn instructed them to wait as long as Muawiyah was alive due to Hasan's peace treaty with him. Later on, however, and before his death, Muawiyah named his son Yazid as his successor.\n\nOne of the important points of the treaty made between Al-Hasan and Mu'awiyah was that the latter should not designate anyone as his successor after his death. But after the death of Al-Hasan, Mu'awiyah, thinking that no one would be courageous enough to object to his decision as the caliph, designated his son Yazid as his successor in AD 680, breaking the treaty. Robert Payne quotes Mu'awiyah in \"History of Islam\" as telling his son Yazid to defeat Al-Husayn – because Mu'awiyah thought he was surely preparing an army against him – but to deal with him gently thereafter as Al-Husayn was a descendant of Muhammad, but to deal with 'Abd Allah ibn al-Zubair swiftly, as Mu'awiyah feared him the most.\n\nIn April AD 680, Yazid succeeded his father as caliph. He immediately instructed the governor of Al-Medinah to compel Al-Husayn and few other prominent figures to give their \"Bay'ah\" (, Pledge of allegiance). Al-Husain, however, refrained from it, believing that Yazid was openly going against the teachings of Islam in public, and changing the \"sunnah\" (, deeds, sayings, etc.) of Muhammad. In his view the integrity and survival of the Islamic community depended on the re-establishment of the correct guidance. He, therefore, accompanied by his household, his sons, brothers, and the sons of Al-Hasan, left Al-Medinah to seek asylum in Mecca.\n\nWhile in Mecca, ibn al-Zubayr, Abdullah ibn Umar and Abdullah ibn Abbas advised Al-Husayn to make Mecca his base, and fight against Yazid from there. On the other hand, the people in Al-Kufah who were informed about Mu'awiyah's death sent letters urging Husayn to join them and pledge to support him against the Umayyads. Al-Husayn wrote back to them saying that he would send his cousin Muslim ibn Aqeel to report to him on the situation. If he found them united as their letters indicated he would speedily join them, because the Imam should act in accordance with the Qur'an, uphold justice, proclaim the truth, and dedicate himself to the cause of God. The mission of Muslim was initially successful, and, according to reports, 18,000 men pledged their allegiance. But the situation changed radically when Yazid appointed 'Ubayd Allah ibn Ziyad as the new governor of Al-Kufah, ordering him to deal severely with ibn 'Aqil. Before news of the adverse turn of events arrived in Mecca, Al-Husayn set out for Al-Kufah.\n\nOn the way, Al-Husayn found that Muslim was killed in Al-Kufah. He broke the news to his supporters and informed them that people had deserted him. Then, he encouraged anyone who so wished, to leave freely without guilt. Most of those who had joined him at various stages on the way from Mecca now left him.\n\nOn his path towards Kufah, Al-Husayn encountered the army of Ubaydullah ibn Ziyad. Husayn addressed the Kufans' army, reminding them that they had invited him to come because they were without an Imam. He told them that he intended to proceed to Kufah with their support, but if they were now opposed to his coming, he would return to where he had come from. However, the army urged him to choose another way. Thus, he turned to left and reached Karbala, where the army forced him not to go further, and stop at a location that was without water.\n\nUmar ibn Sa'ad, the head of Kufan army, sent a messenger to Husayn to inquire about the purpose of his coming to Iraq. Husayn answered again that he had responded to the invitation of the people of Kufa but was ready to leave if they now disliked his presence. When Umar ibn Sa'ad, the head of Kufan army reported it back to ibn Ziyad, the governor instructed him to offer Ḥusayn and his supporters the opportunity to swear allegiance to Yazid. He also ordered Umar to cut off Husayn and his followers from access to the water of the Euphrates. On the next morning, as ʿOmar b. Saʿd arranged the Kufan army in battle order, Al-Hurr ibn Yazid al Tamimi challenged him and went over to Al-Ḥusayn. He addressed the Kufans in vain, rebuking them for their treachery to the grandson of Muhammad, and was killed in the battle.\n\nThe Battle of Karbala lasted from morning till sunset of 10 October 680 (Muharram 10, AH 61). All of Al-Husayn's small army of companions fought with a large army under the command of Umar ibn Sa'ad, and were killed near the river (Euphrates) from which they were not allowed to get any water. In total, around 72 men, and a few ladies and children, had been on the side of Al-Husayn. The renowned historian Abū Rayḥān al-Bīrūnī stated \"… then fire was set to their camp and the bodies were trampled by the hoofs of the horses; nobody in the history of the human kind has seen such atrocities.\"\n\nOnce the Umayyad troops had massacred Al-Husayn and his male soldiers, they looted and burned the tents, plundered the body of Al-Husayn, stripped the women of their jewellery, trampled over the body of Al-Husayn with horses, and took the skin upon which Ali Zainal-Abidin was prostrate. Ali had been unable to fight in the battle, due to an illness. It is said that Shimr was about to kill him, but Husayn's sister Zaynab was able to convince his commander, Umar ibn Sa'ad, to let him live.\n\nIn addition, Zaynul-Abidin and other relatives of Husayn were taken hostage. They were taken to meet Yazid in Damascus, and eventually, they were allowed to return to Al-Medinah.\n\nAfter learning of the martyrdom of Husayn, ibn al-Zubayr collected the people of Mecca and made the following speech:\n\nO people! No other people are worse than Iraqis and among the Iraqis, the people of Kufa are the worst. They repeatedly wrote letters and called Imam Husayn to them and took bay'at (allegiance) for his caliphate. But when ibn Ziyad arrived in Kufa, they rallied around him and killed Imam Husayn who was pious, observed the fast, read the Quran and deserved the caliphate in all respects\n\nAfter his speech, the people of Mecca joined him to take on Yazid. When he heard about this, Yazid had a silver chain made and sent to Mecca with the intention of having Walid ibn Utbah arrest Ibn al-Zubair with it Eventually ibn al-Zubayr consolidated his power by sending a governor to Kufah. Soon, he established his power in Iraq, southern Arabia, the greater part of Al-Sham, and parts of Egypt. Yazid tried to end his rebellion by invading the Hijaz, and took Medina after the bloody Battle of al-Harrah followed by the siege of Mecca but his sudden death ended the campaign and threw the Umayyads into disarray with civil war eventually breaking out. This essentially split the Islamic empire into two spheres with two different caliphs, but soon the Umayyad civil war was ended, and he lost Egypt and whatever he had of Al-Sham to Marwan. This coupled with the Kharijite rebellions in Iraq reduced his domain to only the Hijaz. In Mecca and Medinah, Husayn's family had a strong support base and the people were willing to stand up for them. However, Husayn's remaining family moved back to Al-Medinah. Abd Allah ibn al-Zubayr was the grandson of Abu Bakr and the cousin of Qasim ibn Muhammad ibn Abu Bakr. Both Abdullah and Qasim were Aisha's nephews. Qasim was also the grandfather of Imam Jafar al-Sadiq. Ibn al-Zubayr was finally defeated and killed by Al-Hajjaj ibn Yusuf, who was sent by Abd al-Malik ibn Marwan, on the battlefield in AD 692. He beheaded him and crucified his body, reestablishing Umayyad control over the Empire.\n\nYazid reportedly died in Rabi'al-Awwal, 64 AH (November, AD 683), less than 4 years after coming to power. As for other opponents of Al-Husayn, such as ibn Ziyad and Shimr, they were killed in a rebellion led by a vengeful contemporary of Husayn known as \"Mukhtar al-Thaqafi.\"\n\nYears later, the people of Kufah called upon Zayd ibn Ali ibn Al-Husayn to come over. Zaydis believe that on the last hour of Zayd, Zayd was also betrayed by the people in Kufah who said to him: \"May God have mercy on you! What do you have to say on the matter of Abu Bakr and Umar ibn al-Khattab?\" Zayd said, \"I have not heard anyone in my family renouncing them both nor saying anything but good about them...when they were entrusted with government they behaved justly with the people and acted according to the Qur'an and the Sunnah.\"\n\nHusayn's body is buried in Karbala, the site of his death. His head is said to have been returned from Damascus and interred with his body, although various sites have also been claimed to house Husayn's head, among others: Aleppo, Ashkelon, Baalbek, Damascus, Homs, Merv, and Medina.\n\nHusayn's son Ali returned his head from Ash-Sham to Karbala, forty days after Ashura, reuniting it with Husayn's body. Shi'a Muslims commemorate this fortieth day as \"Arba‘īn\". According to the Shia belief that the body of an Imam is only buried by an Imam, Husayn ibn Ali's body was buried by his son, Ali Ibn Husayn.\n\nWhen the Abbasids took power from the Umayyads, in the garb of taking revenge of Ahl al-Bayt, they also confiscated the head of Husayn and proved to be worse enemies than the Umayyads. The Abbasid caliph al-Muqtadir (d. 295/908) attempted many times to stop the pilgrimage to the head but in vain. He thus tried to completely eliminate the sign of the sacred place of Ziyarat; he transferred the head of Husayn to Ashkelon in secrecy, so that pilgrims could not find the place. According to an Arabic inscription, which is still preserved on the Fatimid-era minbar, the Fatimid vizier Badr al-Jamali rediscovered the head and constructed a shrine around it. The shrine was described as the most magnificent building in Ashkelon. In the British Mandate period it was a \"large maqam on top of a hill\" with no tomb but a fragment of a pillar showing the place where the head had been buried. Israeli Defense Forces under Moshe Dayan blew up Mashhad Nabi Hussein in July 1950 as part of a broader operation. Around the year 2000, Isma'ilis from India built a marble platform there, on the grounds of the Barzilai Medical Center. The head remained in Ashkelon only until Crusaders arrived, upon which it was taken to Cairo where Al-Hussein Mosque became its final resting place.\n\nThe Day of Ashura is commemorated by the Shia society as a day of mourning for the death of Husayn ibn Ali, the grandson of Muhammad, at the Battle of Karbala. The commemoration of Husayn ibn Ali has become a national holiday and different ethnic and religious communities participate in it.\n\nAl-Husayn's grave became the most visited place of Ziyarat for Shias. Some said that a pilgrimage to Karbala and Husayn's shrine therein has the merit of a thousand pilgrimages to Mecca, of a thousand martyrdoms, and of a thousand days fasting. Shia have an important book about Al-Husayn which is called Ziyarat Ashura. Most of them believe that it is a Hadith-e-Qudsi (the \"word of Allah\"). The Imam Husayn Shrine was later built over his grave. In 850 Abbasid caliph, al-Mutawakkil, destroyed his shrine in order to stop Shia pilgrimages. However, pilgrimages continued.\n\nShias mourn during Muharram to pay respect to Husayn whose sacrifices kept true Islam alive and to show their allegiance and love for Imamate. Many Christians and Sunnis also join them in their Mourning of Muharram. \n\nThe effect of the events in Karbala on Muslims has been deep and is beyond passion in Shiʿism. While the intent of the major players in the act has often been debated, it is clear that Husayn cannot be viewed as simply a rebel risking his and his family's lives for his personal ambition. He continued to abide by the treaty with Muawiyah I despite his disapproval of Muawiyah's conduct. He did not pledge allegiance to Yazid, who had been chosen as successor by Muawiyah in violation of the treaty with Hasan ibn Ali. Yet he also did not actively seek martyrdom and offered to leave Iraq once it became clear that he no longer had any support in Kufa. His initial determination to follow the invitation of the Kufans in spite of the numerous warnings he received depicts a religious conviction of a mission that left him no choice, whatever the outcome. He is known to have said:...Dying with honor is better than living with dishonor\n\nHistorian Edward Gibbon was touched by the story of Al-Husayn, describing the events at Karbala as \"a tragedy\". According to historian Syed Akbar Hyder, Mahatma Gandhi attributed the historical progress of Islam, to the \"sacrifices of Muslim saints like Husayn\" rather than military force.\n\nThe traditional narration \"Every day is Ashura and every land is Karbala!\" is used by the Shia as a mantra to live their lives as Husayn did on Ashura, i.e. with complete sacrifice for God and for others. The saying is also intended to signify that what happened on Ashura in Karbala must always be remembered as part of suffering everywhere.\n\nThe story of martyrdom of Husayn has been a strong source of inspiration for Shia revolutionary movements. For Shias, Husayn's willing martyrdom justifies their own resistance against unjust authority. In the course of the 1979 Islamic Revolution in Iran against Pahlavi dynasty, Shia beliefs and symbols were instrumental in orchestrating and sustaining widespread popular resistance with the Husayn legend providing a framework for labeling as evil and reacting against the Pahlavi Shah.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44578421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44578421", "title": "Immigration to Nicaragua", "text": "Immigration to Nicaragua\n\nFirst generation immigrants account for less than 1% of the population of Nicaragua, or about 50,000 people. Immigrants have come from neighboring countries, Europe, Asian and elsewhere. In the past there was also an intake of African slaves. These immigrants have combine with the established European settlers and indigenous Mestizos people to give Nicaragua a wide cultural mix. Immigration into Nicaragua has recently increased after a considerable drop in the decades between 1950 to 1980. \n\nThe Nicaragua immigration began with the arrival of the first conqueror Gil González de Avila, in April 1523. after began arriving soldiers, missionaries, cures and Castilian laborers, some stayed, but the majority re-emigrated to Peru. So also came first African blacks slaves of the Europeans. The Spaniards lived in towns and villages founded for them, the Indians were forced to live in so-called \"Indian villages\". The cities founded by the Spaniards were Leon, Granada, and Nueva Segovia, the towns of Santa Maria de la Esperanza and Villa Hermosa (both close to Nueva Segovia), New Jaen (near the Great Lake), the Villa de Nuestra Señora de Rivas and the town of El Realejo founded to assist the rapid growth of the port of Possession. All the others were \"Indian villages\" such as Sutiaba, Jalteva, Sébaco, Matagalpa, Metapa, etc. In the Caribbean, from 1640 there was a growth of zambos, because to the arrival of a Portuguese slave ship who settled in the Mosquito Coast , close to the coast of Cabo Gracias a Dios in Honduras, these slaves were mixed with some natives of the region.\n\nThe first Europeans immigrants to Nicaragua began arriving in 1524 with the troops, priests and laborers who came with Francisco Hernández de Córdoba, the Spanish conqueror of Nicaragua, These were from regions near Sevilla, Puerto de Palos, and Cadiz. In the sixteenth century, some pirates from England, Holland, and France were settled in the Mosquito Coast. In the late of the seventeenth century these abandoned the pirataje and engaged in the commerce, also occurred some mixtures between these European pirates with the Indians of the Mosquito Coast. So founded the town of Blawveld (after called Bluefields by the Britons) since the seventeenth century. However, during the three centuries that lasted the Spanish colony (1524-1821) immigrants in Nicaragua were mostly originating from the Iberian Peninsula, There was a very small number of immigrants from friendly countries of Colonial Spain, from the Catholic populations in Italy, France, Ireland, Austria, and the Germans principalities of the south. After the independence traders from England, France, Germany and Italy arrived to reside in Nicaragua and do business, but most moved to Matagalpa, mainly Germans since the construction of coffee fincas, while the Britons regained the Mosquito Coast after withdrawal in the early nineteenth century.\n\nThe first Chinese immigrants arrived in Nicaragua on the coast of the Central American country in the second half of the nineteenth century. As the first members of the Chinese colonies in the Americas, these immigrants came to Nicaragua to escape the chaotic situation in China for that time. The majority of them came from the province of Kwangtung, which was what had relatively less control over their ports. the travelers enter to San Juan del Norte navigating the river of the same name and then the lake of Granada, to disembark at the port of La Virgen in Rivas, moving overland to San Juan del Sur, where they took another ship to California. However, the Chinese people continued to arrive, many of them illegally by bribing officials. They focused mainly on agriculture, fishing, and retail trade. In the mid-1920s, was performed a census where it was made known that Bluefields had a population of 4,000 inhabitants, of whom five hundred were pure Chinese.\n\nAccording to data from 2005, people born in Honduras represent the largest group of immigrants in Nicaragua, with 31% of the total, followed by people from Costa Rica and the United States.\n"}
{"id": "31564140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31564140", "title": "Indians in Lebanon", "text": "Indians in Lebanon\n\nThere is a small but recognisable community of Indians in Lebanon consisting of laborers and engineers mainly working in the industrial sector; some have opened their own businesses. The Indian migrants work in sectors of the Lebanese economy such as construction, manufacturing and the service sector.\n\nIn 2006, the Indian population in Lebanon declined due to the Israel-Hezbollah War. The evacuees were first brought by Indian naval ships from the Lebanese capital of Beirut to Larnaca in Cyprus and then flown to India, under an Indian military-coordinated exercise dubbed as \"Operation Sukoon.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "7054531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7054531", "title": "International Congress on Buddhist Women's Role in the Sangha", "text": "International Congress on Buddhist Women's Role in the Sangha\n\nThe International Congress on Buddhist Women's Role in the Sangha: Bhikshuni Vinaya and Ordination Lineages was an historic event that took place July 18–20, 2007. It was a meeting of internationally recognized Buddhist scholars specializing in monastic discipline and history, as well as practitioners. It was expected to be the final discussion of a decades-long dialogue about re-establishing full bhikshuni ordination in Buddhist traditions. Papers and research based on Buddhist texts and contemporary practice traditions in China, Korea, Taiwan, Tibet, and South Asia were presented, between them the \"Abstract: The Eight Garudhammas\". The fourteenth Dalai Lama attended the final day of the conference and conclusions. His letter of support is available to the public (see references below).\n\nDiscussions, amongst both scholars and practitioners, at the first Congress were planned primarily about the Tibetan Buddhist tradition. Other Bhikkshuni lineages which could be restored were also expected to be on the agenda. The Congress was held at University of Hamburg, Germany, July 18–20, 2007, hosted by the University of Hamburg's Asia-Africa Institute.\n\nAfter statements from the many bhikkus and bhikkshunis present, the Dalai Lama announced that, while he supported the case, he needed to discuss the matter with senior lamas representing the different schools of Tibetan Buddhism to gain a consensus view. He added that from 2008 (or if possible 2007) nuns were to practice three monastic ceremonies, posadha, vassa and pavarana, as preparation for the establishment of a Bhikkhuni Sangha in the near future. These, he declared, should be held in Tibetan and follow the dharmaguptaka vinaya. A full statement was issued by the Dalai Lama detailing this.\n\nBhikshuni and Yogini Tenzin Palmo -a member of the Committee of Western Bhikshunis- belonging to Drukpa Lineage of the Kagyu school in her statement \"A brief overview of the situation for nuns in the Tibetan Tradition\" elaborated that in spite of full Bhikshuni ordination monks had not to be afraid because according to vinaya they were going to keep their higher position.\n\nThe six member 'Committee of Western Bhikshunis' is an organisation of senior Western nuns supported by two Advisors from Taiwan\n(Ven. Bhiksuni Heng-ching Shih, Professor of Philosophy at Taiwan National University (Gelongma ordination 1975 in San Francisco) and Ven. Bhikshuni Wu-yin, Vinaya Master). It was formed in the autumn of 2005, after the Dalai Lama told Bhikshuni Jampa Tsedroen that the Western bhikshunis should be more involved in helping to establish the bhikshuni ordination in the Tibetan tradition.\n\nTo help establish the Bhikshuni Sangha (community of fully ordained nuns) where it does not currently exist had already been declared in 1987 one of the objectives of Sakyadhita, as expressed at its founding meeting in 1987 in Bodhgaya, India.\n\nThe basic difference between Bhikshuni Vinaya and Bhikshu Vinaya (= discipline) are the eight rules of respect, known as The Eight Garudhammas. According to scripture and legend they have come from Buddha Shakyamuni himself.\nBuddha: Ananda, if Mahapajapati Gotami accepts eight vows of respect, that will be her full ordination (upasampada).\n\"(1) A bhikkhuni who has been fully ordained even for more than a century must bow down, rise up from her seat, salute with hands palm-to-palm over her heart, and perform the duties of respect to a bhikkhu even if he has been fully ordained only a day. This rule is to be honored, respected, revered, venerated, never to be transgressed as long as she lives.\"\n\"(2)A bhikkhuni must not spend the rains in a residence where there is no bhikkhu...\n\"(3) Every half-month a bhikkhuni should request two things from the Bhikkhu Sangha: she should ask for the date of the uposatha day and come for an exhortation...\n\"(4) At the end of the Rains-residence, a bhikkhuni should invite (criticism both from) the Bhikkhu Sangha and the Bhikkhuni Sangha on any of three grounds: what they have seen, what they have heard, what they have suspected...\n\"(5) A bhikkhuni who has broken any of the vows of respect must undergo penance for half a month under both Sanghas...\n\"(6) Only after a probationer has trained in the six precepts for two years should she request ordination from both Sanghas...\n\"(7) A bhikkhu must not in any way be insulted or reviled by a bhikkhuni...\n\"(8) From this day forward, the admonition of a bhikkhu by a bhikkhuni is forbidden, but the admonition of a bhikkhuni by a bhikkhu is not forbidden. This rule, too, is to be honored, respected, revered, venerated, never to be transgressed as long as she lives.\nBuddha: \"If Mahapajapati Gotami accepts these eight vows of respect, that will be her full ordination.\".\n\nAlexander Berzin states: \"The ordination procedure involves asking the candidates a list of questions concerning impediments (bar-chad-kyi chos, Skt. antarayikadharma, Pali: antarayikadhamma) she may have that might hinder her from keeping the full set of vows. In addition to the questions asked in common with candidates for bhikshu ordination, these include further questions concerning her anatomy as a female.\"\n\nEquality of Full Ordination\n\ntaken from the interview with Bhikshuni Thubten Chodron, Committee of Western Bhikshunis\n\nDiscriminating against buddhist nuns within Full Ordination\n\ntaken from Berzin Summary Report\n\nEquality generally speaking\ntaken from Berzin Summary Report\n\nImpacts of bowing\n\n\"A Painful Ambiguity - Attitudes towards nuns in Buddhist myth\" by Bhikkhu Sujato 25/9/2007\n\nGiving joy to monks in order to foster openmindedness\n\nSister Chan Khong\n\n\n\"Buddhist order of interbeing - established in 1964\"\n\"Buddhist Dharma on women\"\n"}
{"id": "3145029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3145029", "title": "Iron Ossetian", "text": "Iron Ossetian\n\nIron (Ossetic: Ирон, \"Iron\" or Ирон æвзаг, \"Iron ævzag\") is one of the two main dialects of the Ossetic language along with Digor spoken in the Caucasus. The majority of Ossetians speak Iron, notably in the East, South and Central parts of North Ossetia–Alania, while in the West the Digor dialect is more prevalent. The Iron dialect has been the basis of the Ossetian written language since the abolition of the Digor standard in 1939.\n\n"}
{"id": "25417907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25417907", "title": "Kasena language", "text": "Kasena language\n\nKasem (Kassena) is the language of the Kassena ethnic group and is a Gur language spoken in the Upper East Region of northern Ghana and in Burkina Faso. Spoken by Michael Adobaa.\n\n"}
{"id": "1458283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1458283", "title": "Kleos", "text": "Kleos\n\nKleos (Greek: κλέος) is the Greek word often translated to \"renown\", or \"glory\". It is related to the word \"to hear\" and carries the implied meaning of \"what others hear about you\". A Greek hero earns \"kleos\" through accomplishing great deeds.\n\nAccording to Gregory Nagy, besides the meaning of \"glory\", \"kleos\" can also be used as the medium (in this case, the ancient Greek poetry or song) which conveys glory.\n\n\"Kleos\" is invariably transferred from father to son; the son is responsible for carrying on and building upon the \"glory\" of the father. This is a reason for Penelope putting off her suitors for so long, and one justification for Medea's murder of her own children was to cut short Jason's kleos.\n\n\"Kleos\" is a common theme in Homer's epics, the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\", the main example in the latter being that of Odysseus and his son Telemachus, who is concerned that his father may have died a pathetic and pitiable death at sea rather than a reputable and gracious one in battle. The \"Iliad\" is about gaining ultimate \"kleos\" on the battlefields of Troy while the \"Odyssey\" is the ten-year quest of Odysseus' \"nostos\" (or return journey). Telemachus fears that he has been deprived of \"kleos\". This links to hereditary \"kleos\". \"Kleos\" is sometimes related to \"aidos\" — the sense of shame. \n\nAccording to Gregory Nagy, Kleos is a noun, derived from the verb kluein, which means 'hear'.\n\nFrom other source, the Greek term kleos is derived from the Proto-Indo-European (PIE) term \"*ḱlewos\", which expressed a similar concept in PIE society. As the PIE people had no concept of the continuation of the individual after life, one could only hope to achieve \"*ḱlewos *ndhghitom\", or \"the fame that does not decay.\" As Bruce Lincoln notes, \"In a universe where impersonal matter endured forever but the personal self was extinguished at death, the most which could survive of that self was a rumor, a reputation. For this, the person craving immortality—a condition proper only to the gods and antithetical to human existence—was totally reliant on poets and poetry.\"\n\nCognates include Sanskrit, श्रवस् (\"śravas\"); Avestan, 𐬯𐬭𐬀𐬬𐬀𐬵; Armenian, լու (\"low\"); Old Church Slavonic \"slava\", and Old Irish, clú. Compare to the Greek: κλύω (\"kluō\" - I hear\").\n\nThe Greek philosopher Plato, in his dialog The Symposium relating a discussion about love, makes a digression into the subject of fame and glory. It is in the section that deals with the dialog between Socrates and Diotima. She is explaining that men search ways to reach some kind of immortality, for instance by means of physical and intellectual procreation. Then asserts that the love for fame and glory is very strong, and in fact to obtain them, men are ready to engage in the greatest effort, and to take risks and make sacrifices, even at the cost of their lives. Then makes specific references to Alcestis that died to save Admetus, or Achilles to avenge Patroclus, and to Codrus, as examples of heroes in search of fame and immortal renown.\n\n"}
{"id": "14067034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14067034", "title": "Kra–Dai ethnic groups in Southeast Asia", "text": "Kra–Dai ethnic groups in Southeast Asia\n\nThe following is a list of Kra–Dai peoples in Southeast Asia:\n\n\nThe Kam–Sui peoples are clustered in China as well as neighboring portions of northern Laos and Vietnam.\n\nThe center of the Saek population is the Mekong River in central Laos. A smaller Saek community makes its home in the Isan region of northeast Thailand, near the border with Laos.\n\n\nThe center of the Saek population is the Mekong River in central Laos. A smaller Saek community makes its home in the Isan region of northeast Thailand, near the border with Laos.\n\n\nThe Kra peoples are clustered in the Guangxi, Guizhou, Yunnan, Hunan and Hainan provinces of China, as well as the Hà Giang, Cao Bằng, Lào Cai and Sơn La provinces of Vietnam.\nThe Kam–Sui peoples are clustered in China as well as neighboring portions of northern Laos and Vietnam.\n\nThe Lakkia are an ethnic group clustered in the Guangxi Province of China and neighboring portions of Vietnam, whose members are of Yao descent, but speak a Kra–Dai language called \"Lakkia\". These Yao were likely in an area dominated by Tai speakers and assimilated an early Kra–Dai language (possibly the language of the ancestors of the Biao people.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "944942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=944942", "title": "Languages of Algeria", "text": "Languages of Algeria\n\nThe official languages of Algeria are Modern Standard Arabic (literary Arabic) and Tamazight (Berber), as specified in its constitution since 1963 for the former and since 2016 for the latter. Berber has been recognized as a \"national language\" by constitutional amendment since 8 May 2002. In February, 2016, a constitutional resolution was passed making Berber an official language alongside Arabic. Algerian Arabic and Berber are the native languages of over 99% of Algerians, with Algerian Arabic spoken by about 72% and Berber by 27.4%. French, though it has no official status, is widely used in government, culture, media (newspapers) and education (from primary school), due to Algeria's colonial history. Kabyle, the most spoken Berber language in the country, is taught and partially co-official (with a few restrictions) in parts of Kabylie.\n\nMalika Rebai Maamri, author of \"The Syndrome of the French Language in Algeria,\" said \"The language spoken at home and in the street remains a mixture of Algerian dialect and French words.\" Due to the number of languages and complexity involving those languages, Maamri argued that \"[t]oday the linguistic situation in Algeria is dominated by multiple discourses and positions.\"\n\nAlgerian Arabic is the language of 73% of Algeria's population. Non-native speakers learn Literary Arabic at school, and as such a relative majority of the population understands Standard Arabic or the Algerian Arabic dialect. Algerian Arabic (or \"darija\") is spoken by 85% of the total population and 83% of Arab speakers.\n\nThe 1963 constitution of Algeria made Arabic the official language, and this was retained in the 1976 constitution. The 1976 constitution states in Article 3 \"Arabic is the national and official language\". Neither constitution mentions Berber. The Permanent Committee on Geographical Names for British Official Use (PCGN) stated \"Arabic was chosen at the outset as the language which was to represent Algeria’s identity and religion, and official attitudes towards both Berber and French have been largely negative.\" The PCGN stated that French, not Arabic, is the actual lingua franca of Algeria. Arabic is not commonly used in the Kabylie region.\n\nIn Algeria, as elsewhere, spoken Arabic differs very substantially from written Arabic; Algerian Arabic has a much-simplified vowel system, a substantially changed vocabulary and does not have the case endings of the written Arabic. Algerian Arabic does not necessarily stem from written Arabic. Within Algerian Arabic itself, there are significant local variations; Jijel Arabic, in particular, is noteworthy for its pronunciation of \"qaf\" as \"kaf\" and its profusion of Berber loanwords, and the dialects of some ports show influence from Andalusi Arabic brought by refugees from al-Andalus. Algerian Arabic is part of the Maghrebi Arabic dialect continuum, and fades into Moroccan Arabic and Tunisian Arabic along the respective borders.\n\nIn the Sahara, more conservative Bedouin dialects, grouped under the name Saharan Arabic, are spoken; in addition, the many Sahrawi refugees at Tindouf speak Hassaniya Arabic. Most Jews of Algeria once spoke dialects of Arabic specific to their community, collectively termed Judeo-Arabic.\n\nAfter Algeria became independent in 1962, it tried to improve fluency by importing Arabic teachers from Egypt and Syria. Martin Regg Cohn of the \"Toronto Star\" said that many of the instructors were unqualified. In 1963, of the 1,300,000 literate people in Algeria, an estimate of 300,000 read literary Arabic. Mohamed Benrabah, author of \"Language maintenance and spread: French in Algeria,\" said that during that year, \"linguistic competence in Standard Arabic was relatively low.\" Malika Rebai Maamri, author of \"The Syndrome of the French Language in Algeria,\" said that as of 2009, \"classical Arabic is still not mastered even at higher educational levels\" and that \"dialectical Arabic cannot express things in writing.\"\n\nAs of 2012, remaining generations educated under the French colonial system are unable to read or write Arabic.\n\nThe Berber languages are considered the native language of Algeria since antiquity. They are spoken in five major dialects in many parts of the territory, but mainly in Kabylia, in the Awras, and in the Algerian Sahara desert (by Algerian Tuaregs).\n\nBefore, during and after Phoenician settlers' arrival, Berber remained spoken throughout ancient Algeria (Numidia), as later attested by early Tifinagh (or Libyco-Berber) inscriptions, and as understood from Latin and Greek historical sources. Despite the presence or growth of Latin, and later Arabic, in some urban areas, Berber remained the majority language of Algeria since ancient times until well after the French invasion in 1830.\n\nArabic remained Algeria's only official language until 2002, when Berber was recognized as a second national language. And in 2016 Berber was recognized as a second official language of Algeria.\n\nThe 1963 constitution and the 1976 constitution do not mention Berber and French. The Permanent Committee on Geographical Names for British Official Use (PCGN) stated \"official attitudes towards both Berber and French have been largely negative\" and \"The Algerian authorities have even at times rejected use of the very word “Berber”, either on the secular grounds that the term undermines national unity, or on the religious grounds that it is a term hostile to Identity and prefer to call it Tamazight another name for Berber.\" Berber and French are the two languages commonly used in the Kabylie region.\n\nThe Berber languages/dialects spoken in Algeria include:\n\n\n\n\nThe CIA World Factbook states that French is a lingua franca of Algeria. The Permanent Committee on Geographical Names for British Official Use (PCGN) states \"In reality, French is the \"lingua franca\" of Algeria\", and that despite government efforts to remove French, it has never ceased being the lingua franca. Algeria is the second largest Francophone country in the world in terms of speakers. In 2008, 11.2 million Algerians (33%) could read and write in French.\n\nThe 1963 and 1976 constitutions do not mention Berber and French. The PCGN stated \"official attitudes towards both Berber and French have been largely negative\". French and Berber are the two languages commonly used in the Kabylie region.\n\nFrench is a part of the standard school curriculum, and is widely understood (18 million Algerians can write and read French, which is 50% of the population, and the figure is higher if those who can only speak and understand it are included; Ethnologue estimates indicate that 10 200 people in Algeria speak it as their native language, mostly pied-noirs who stayed behind and people raised in French-speaking households.) Some two-thirds of Algerians have a \"fairly broad\" grasp of French, and half speak it as a second language. French is widely used in media and commerce. French is widely used and spoken in everyday life in Algeria's larger cities, in diglossic combination with Algerian Arabic. Malika Rebai Mammri, author of \"The Syndrome of the French Language in Algeria,\" said \"French continues to be the dominant language in business and professional circles\" and that \"certain aspects of formal education and research are still carried in the French language and a great part of the economic and industrial sectors and press still use French extensively.\"\n\nFrench is the most widely studied foreign language in the country, and a majority of Algerians can understand it and speak it. Since independence, the government has pursued a policy of linguistic Arabization of education and bureaucracy, which has resulted in limiting the use of Berber and the Arabization of many Berber-speakers. The strong position of French in Algeria was little affected by the Arabization policy. All scientific and business university courses are still taught in French. Recently, schools have begun to incorporate French into the curriculum as early as children are taught written classical Arabic. French is also used in media and business. After a political debate in Algeria in the late 1990s about whether to replace French with English in the educational system, the government decided to retain French. English is taught in the first year of middle schools.\n\nIn spite of its widespread use of French, Algeria has not joined the \"Organisation internationale de la Francophonie\", an international organization of French-speaking countries.\n\nEnglish, because of its status as a language among the two global lingua francas (along with French), is taught from the middle school years onward.\n\nThe Algerian government taught English as the secondary mandatory foreign language for students beginning in the fourth grade in the middle school cycle, from the end of the 1970s to the early 1990s. In September 1993 the Ministry of National Education made French and English two separate choices for the first mandatory foreign language; students were required to pick one over the other. The Minister of National Education said that English was to be promoted because it was \"the language of scientific knowledge\".\n\nOf two million schoolchildren in school between 1993 and 1997, between 0.33% and 1.28% chose English over French, a statistic Mohamed Benrabah, author of \"Language maintenance and spread: French in Algeria,\" referred to as \"insignificant.\"\n\nAccording to the Algerian envoy to India, only five percent of the population are able to speak \"good English\". That led the Government to invite Indians to teach the language in Algerian universities in 2012. Some 100 institutes affiliated to 13 Algerian universities needed nearly 250 English teachers in early 2012.\n\nThe Korandje language of the Saharan oasis of Tabelbala is a heavily Berber-influenced variety of Songhay. A Nilo-Saharan language, it is more widely spoken far to the south in Niger.\n\nAlgerian Sign Language is used in Algeria by the deaf; it has sometimes been used on national TV.\n\nPhoenician, particularly in its North African Punic form, was brought to Algeria by Carthage's influence, it was an influential language in the region ; Augustine learned it, and quotes occasional phrases. However, by his time the language was losing ground to Latin, and no trace of it survives now (apart from occasional names of places).\n\nLatin (which later developed into the brief-existent, little-known African Romance language) was the language of the Roman occupation; it became widely spoken in the coastal towns, and Augustine attests that in his day it was gaining ground over Punic. However, it gave way to Arabic and Berber after the Umayyads' conquest, leaving only a few loanwords in those two languages.\n\nOttoman rule after the 16th century brought a dominant minority of Turks to Algeria, particularly concentrated in the large cities; for a while, Ottoman Turkish became a major governmental language. However, over time these Turks gradually assimilated, and, while many families of partial Turkish descent remain in Algeria, none speak the language.\n\n\nMohamed Benrabah, author of \"Language maintenance and spread: French in Algeria,\" said that as of 2007, \"Arabization is either complete or almost complete\" in the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Religious Affairs and registry offices in Algerian town halls. He also said that the Ministry of Education had been affected to a \"lesser extent.\" Official documents of ministries which had not been affected partially or fully to Arabization are often written in French, and Arabic translations of these documents are provided when needed. Benrabah said that as of 2007 \"the use of French in a number of higher domains has diminished since the colonial era when the language held an unassailable position in the media, education, government, and administration.\"\n\nIn 1968 the Algerian government decreed that all civil positions use the Arabic language. In 1990 the government ruled that Arabic is the only language to be used in institutions and public service, and imprisonment was a penalty for violating this law. Around 1997 the Algerian government had passed laws prohibiting officials from speaking any language other than Arabic publicly. The government laws called for a fine for officials who prepared government documents not in Arabic. The government mandated that all textbooks and lectures must be Arabic, with French ones being phased out. The laws also stated that all television broadcasts must be in Arabic only. In 1997, Slimane Chikh, the Minister of Education, said that French needed to be phased out because it was preventing Arabic from reaching prominence and because it was leading Algerians away from English, the primary international language of commerce, computers, and science.\n\nOf the documents submitted by the Algerian government to the sessions of the United Nations Group of Experts on Geographical Names and the United Nations Conference on the Standardization of Geographical Names, all were in French, and the government used French in its participation in almost all of the conferences associated with these groups.\n\nAs of 2007, Arabization has mainly affected primary and secondary education, while in university education French retained a higher social prestige and class and is the language used in scientific studies. As of 2002, French was taught as a foreign language from the fourth year of primary school until the final year of secondary school. French is used in the high school level in the exact sciences, the medical sciences, and technology studies. Some specialized fields offer courses in French and courses in Arabic. Almost all students prefer the French courses in those fields. Over 60% of university students in Algeria are educated in French. In graduate programs in social sciences, French is used.\n\nThe first President of Algeria, Ahmed ben Bella, introduced Arabization in the education system in 1962. The Arabic language was introduced in all levels and all programmes in the 1963-1964 period. As time passed, the time in the educational system spent on French gradually declined. In 1964-1965 primary grade one was fully Arabized with all other levels each receiving ten hours of Arabic per period. The plans were complicated by the flight of 25,000 European teachers from Algeria and the illiteracy rate of 90%. The demographics also complicated the plans. Of 10 million Algerians, about 300,000 were fluent in Modern Standard Arabic while 1 million were able to read French and 6 million were able to speak French. To remedy this, the Algerian government hired 10,988 academic monitors. C. F. Gallagher, author of \"North African problems and prospects: Language and identity\", said that the monitors' \"intellectual horizons [were] at times only slightly less limited than their pupils\". In 1963 the government recruited 1,000 Egyptians as Arabic teachers. Mohamed Benrabah, author of \"Language-in-Education Planning in Algeria: Historical Development and Current Issues\", said \"Most of these teachers turned out to be unqualified for teaching and totally ignorant of the Algerian social reality\" and that \"Their spoken Egyptian Arabic was incomprehensible to Algerians in general and Tamazight-speaking populations in particular and their traditional pedagogy (learning by rote and class recitation, physical punishment and so on) proved inadequate\". In addition the teachers were members of the Muslim Brotherhood and introduced Islamist thought in Algeria. In September 1967 Minister of Education Ahmed Taleb Ibrahimi completely Arabized primary level two, so many parents delayed registration of their children in school until grade three when they could have a higher educational quality and where the French language was still dominant.\n\nThe Algerian government had plans to totally Arabize the university sector effective December 1980. In all levels of education, bilingual education ended in 1985. In that period many Algerian elites practiced \"elite closure\" by sending their own children to schools controlled by the French government while promoting Arabization for the masses, so their own children would learn French and have access to jobs open to those with French knowledge. Since most young Algerians had a poor command of French and were in Arabized school streams, they enrolled in Arabic-language university departments such as Islamic law and Arabic literature and were exposed to Islamist point of views. Algiers had many unofficially bilingual primary and secondary schools and Benrabah said that the elite closure practice was \"most visible in Algiers\". The Algerian government, in 1988, officially prohibited Algerian nationals and children of mixed Algerian and French people from attending \"French Mission of Algeria\" schools. President Chadli Bendjedid ruled that Algerian nationals were not permitted to attend all-French schools. The Algiers French lycée moved from one neighbourhood to another. The \"Lycée Cheikh Bouamama\" (), originally called the \"Lycée Descartes\", took in students from the \"tchitchi\" (children of wealthy) backgrounds instead of \"bohi\" (\"rejects\"). When it was nationalized it served members of the educational, military, and political elites. After Chadli's decree, the school had a secret program which placed higher emphasis on French than other Algerian secondary schools did. Many students in the program attended universities abroad after graduation.\n\nIn 1999 the Algerian authorities conducted a survey which stated that 75% of the population supported teaching scientific school subjects in the French language. In the middle of March 2001 the National Commission for the Reform of the Educational System (CNRSE according to its French name) proposed that French would be reintroduced in grade two of the primary cycle, serving 6-7 year olds, instead of grade four, serving 8-9 year olds, and that scientific subjects in secondary school should be taught in French. Therefore, students would be biliterate in French and Arabic instead of having French as a subject. In 2002 the opponents to the bilingual educational proposal declared a \"fatwa\" against the pro-bilingual supporters. The reforms were intended to be implemented in September 2001 but the Ministry of the Interior suspended them on 3 September 2001.\n\nBy 2008 the Algerian government began reintroducing French in the school system.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48167196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48167196", "title": "List of scandals in Malaysia", "text": "List of scandals in Malaysia\n\nThe following is a list of alleged scams and scandals in Malaysia since independence. These include political, financial, corporate and others. Entries are arranged in reverse chronological order by year. The year is the one in which the alleged scam was first reported or came into knowledge of public.\n"}
{"id": "40546515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40546515", "title": "Ludi Triumphales", "text": "Ludi Triumphales\n\nIn the Roman Empire of the 4th century, the Ludi Triumphales (\"Triumphal Games\") were games \"(ludi)\" held annually September 18–22 to commemorate the victory of Constantine over Licinius at Chalcedon in 324. No description of these games has survived, but they are significant in the historical transformation of Roman religious and state institutions under the Christian emperors, an era inaugurated by the conversion of Constantine. Forty-eight circus races \"(ludi circenses)\" are recorded for September 18, which was also celebrated as the birthday \"(dies natalis)\" of the emperor Trajan.\n\nThe first day of the \"Ludi Triumphales\"—chosen in 335 for Constantine's elevation of his nephew as Caesar—coincided on the Roman calendar with the conclusion of the \"Ludi Romani\" (\"Roman Games\"), votive games for Jupiter Optimus Maximus (\"Jupiter Best and Greatest\"). The Roman Games were the oldest games instituted by the Romans, dating from 509 BC, and took up about half the month, running September 5–19 on the Julian calendar. Typically, the last day of victory games would mark the date of the actual victory, which in the case of Chalcedon was September 18. A five-day program of games would have placed the opening day of the \"Ludi Triumphales\" on September 13, the Ides, a religiously fraught day that Constantine presumably wished to avoid.\n\nThe Ides of September occurred in the middle of the Roman Games, when a major banquet for Jupiter had been held since Rome's archaic period. In the earliest period of Roman history, a nail-driving ritual in the Temple of Jupiter marked the passing of the political year, with the consuls at that time taking office on the Ides. The Byzantine antiquarian Johannes Lydus noted that this was one of three Roman new years: the priestly year began in January, the national in March, and the political cycle in September, which was also the beginning of the Imperial Roman tax year. The nail-driving ceremony occurred on the anniversary \"(dies natalis)\" of the temple, in a sacred space \"(templum)\" devoted to Minerva, on the right side of the shrine \"(aedes)\" of Jupiter.\n\nThe \"Ludi Triumphales\" are one of nine imperial military victories recorded on the Calendar of Filocalus (354 AD). Eight of these are connected to the Constantinian dynasty, since the celebration of victory games is usually confined to the dynasty. The \"Triumphales\" began with the unusually high number of circus races on the opening day of September 18. \n\n"}
{"id": "675781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=675781", "title": "Miskito people", "text": "Miskito people\n\nThe Miskito are an indigenous ethnic group in Central America, of whom many are mixed race. In the northern end of their territory, the people are primarily of African-Native American ancestry; others are of mixed African-Native American and English descent. Their territory extends from Cape Camarón, Honduras, to Río Grande, Nicaragua, along the Mosquito Coast, in the Western Caribbean Zone. Their population is estimated at 180,000 people as of 2016.\n\nThe indigenous people speak a native Miskito language, but large groups also speak Miskito creole English, Spanish, which is the language of education and government, and other languages. The creole English came about through frequent contact with the British for trading, as they predominated along this coast. Many are Christians. A 1987 peace agreement afforded them land rights over traditional lands. However, despite significant political struggles throughout their history, today the Miskito face human rights violations over land rights disputes, as recognized by the Inter-American Commission for Human Rights.\n\nThe name \"Miskito\" derives from the Miskito-language ethnonym \"Mískitu\", their name for themselves. It is not related to the Spanish word \"mosquito,\" which derives from the word \"mosca\", meaning \"fly\", also used in Spanish for the insect.\n\nBefore the 1700s arrival of Europeans in the region, the area was divided into numerous small, egalitarian indigenous groups, possibly speaking languages related to Sumu. The Spanish listed 30 \"nations\" in Taguzgalpa and Tologalpa provinces, as the Spanish understood their geography. Karl Offen's analysis of this historic data suggests there were about a half dozen entities, groups who were distinct by their language dialects, who were situated in the river basins.\n\nThe Spanish were unable to conquer this region during the sixteenth century. Much of the Caribbean coast of Nicaragua and northeastern Honduras was outside any Spanish authority. The region became a haven for northern Europeans, especially Dutch and English privateers during the early seventeenth century (for example Morgan, Montbars and Dampier).\n\nA number of Africans reached the coast from shipwrecked slave ships, notably one in the mid-seventeenth century. The survivors of shipwrecks, and/or escaped slaves from the Providence Island colony, settled around Cape Gracias a Dios. They intermarried with the indigenous people.\n\nThe Spanish referred to their mixed-race descendants as \"Mosquito Zambos\" (\"Mosquito\" was their transliteration of Miskito). Those Miskito living in the southern (Nicaraguan) region were less racially mixed. Modern scholars have classified them as Tawira Miskito. Rivalries between these two groups and competition for territory often led to wars, which were divisive in the eighteenth century.\n\nEnglish privateers working through the Providence Island Company made informal alliances with the Miskito. These English began to crown Miskito leaders as kings (or chiefs); their territory was called the Mosquito Kingdom (the English adopted the Spanish term for the indigenous people). A 1699 written account of the kingdom described it as spread out in various communities along the coast but not including all the territory. It probably did not include the settlements of English traders. The king did not have total power. The 1699 description noted that the kings and governors had no power except in war time, even in matters of justice. Otherwise the people were all equal. Their superior leaders were named by the English as the king, a governor, a general and, by the 1750s, an admiral. Historical information on kings is often obscure as many of the kings were semi-mythical.\n\nIn the late seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries, the Miskito Zambo began a series of raids attacking Spanish-held territories and the still independent indigenous groups in the area. Miskito raiders reached as far north as the Yucatan, and as far south as Costa Rica. They sold many of their captives as slaves to English merchants, who generally shipped them to Jamaica sugar plantations for work. In addition, from 1720 in Jamaica, the British commissioned the Miskito to capture Maroons in the Blue Mountains, as they could trail people.\n\nThe Miskito king and the British concluded a formal Treaty of Friendship and Alliance in 1740. The British Crown appointed John Hodgson as Superintendent of the Shore. The British established a protectorate over the Miskito Nation, often called the Mosquito Coast (related to the original Spanish name).\n\nThe Miskito kingdom aided Britain during the American Revolutionary War by attacking Spanish colonies to draw off their forces. It gained several victories alongside the British. But, at the conclusion of the peace in 1783, Britain had to cede control over the coast to Spain. The British withdrawal was completed at the end of June 1787. To compensate Loyalist supporters, the British re-settled 537 free people, together with their 1,677 slaves, from Mosquitia to the Bay settlement in British Honduras, present-day Belize. Despite their official withdrawal, Britain maintained an unofficial protectorate over the kingdom. They often intervened to protect Miskito interests against Spanish encroachments.\n\nIn addition to the area's geographic isolation, the Miskito military capacity and British support allowed the people to retain their independence when Spain controlled the Pacific side of Central America. The Miskito Coast remained independent throughout much of the period of the Federation of Central American States, but Nicaragua finally absorbed the territory in 1894.\n\nOnce the Central American republics became independent in the early to mid-nineteenth century, they had less power in relation to other nations than did Spain, and struggled to protect their own territorial interests against the more powerful Great Britain and the United States, which took an increasing strategic interest in the area.\n\nGreat Britain took an interest in the affairs on the Mosquito Coast, as it had trade positions in Belize/British Honduras and Jamaica. In addition, US trading interests began to develop in the region. British governors in Belize began issuing commissions and appointments to Miskito kings and other officials, such as King Robert Charles Frederick, crowned in Belize in 1825. British officials regularly officially recognized the various Miskito offices; it worked to protect Miskito interests against the Central American republics and against the United States.\n\nThe latter protested British interference under the Monroe Doctrine. The United States involvement in war with Mexico prevented it from much support of the republics. As Britain gradually became less aggressive in its commissioning of Miskito nobility, the people effectively began to operate as an independent state.\n\nDue to British economic interest in Central America (particularly British Honduras, now Belize), they sold guns and other modern weapons to the Miskito. After Nicaragua declared independence in 1821, combined Miskito-Zambo raiders began to attack Honduran settlements. They sometimes rescued enslaved Miskito before transport to Europe. At other times, they conducted raids to enslave Amerindians to sell to the British for work in Jamaica. They also enslaved women from other tribes for use as sexual partners.\n\nTheir society allowed polygamy. The Miskito population boomed as the men had more children with their slave women. These raids continued for many years after animosity between Britain and Spain ended at the international level. For a long time, the Miskito considered themselves superior to other indigenous tribes of the area, whom they referred to as \"wild\". The Miskito commonly adopted European dress and English names.\n\nIn 1847, Moravian Church missionaries came to the Miskito Coast from Herrnhut, Saxony. Working among the Miskito and Creoles, by the end of the century, they had converted almost all of the inhabitants to a Protestant form of Christianity. The Moravian Church missionaries built a hospital and established schools in their settlements.\n\nFrom the middle of the nineteenth century, British interest in the region began to wane. At the Treaty of Managua in 1860, Great Britain allowed Nicaragua to have uncontested claim over the Mosquito Coast. The treaty provided for a Miskitu reserve, a self-governing entity that enjoyed semi-sovereign rights. Nicaraguan forces occupied the area in 1894 and took over the state. The British restored the Miskito Reserve in July, but Nicaraguan forces reoccupied in August 1894 and ended its independence.\n\nVarious major American fruit companies, which had begun large-scale production of bananas in the Miskito reserve, supported Nicaragua's takeover of power in the area. The American companies preferred Nicaraguan authority to the Miskito, especially as the Miskito elite was more prepared to protect the rights of small landholders than was the Nicaragua government.\n\nThe Miskito who lived in the Jinotega Department, west of the North Caribbean Coast Autonomous Region, were much different from the Miskito who lived along the Caribbean coast. The Miskito in Jinotega were Catholic as a result of Spanish colonial influence, were not allied with the British, and often traded with the Spanish-speaking mestizos from the Pacific coast.\n\nDuring the conflict in 1927–1933 between Augusto Sandino and the United States over the U.S. occupation of Nicaragua, both sides tried to enlist the Miskito in providing food and transport. In 1926, many Miskito in the Jinotega region joined Augusto Sandino and his troops. The Miskito of Jinotega had closer ties with Sandino and the FSLN, which organized agricultural cooperatives and built schools and health centers in the area.\n\nDuring the 1960s and the 1970s, Nicaragua began to expropriate native-held land for nationalization. During these decades, the mainstream of Nicaraguan national politics recognized the Miskito only when asking them to vote for the Nicaraguan National Liberal Party.\n\nIn the 1980s, the Sandinista government extended their influence over the region via its \"Comités de Defensa Sandinista\". In response, several Miskito groups formed guerrilla forces, who carried on armed struggle against the central government. On 25 February 1982, Steadman Fagoth, one of the guerrilla leaders, took refuge in Honduras along with 3,000 Miskito. Meanwhile, the Sandinistas began to denounce the activities of Contras in the Río Coco zone. In 1983, the government proclaimed a state of emergency in the Río Coco zone, which was maintained until 1988.\n\nA 1986 documentary called \"Nicaragua Was Our Home\" documented the persecution of the Miskito at the hands of the Nicaraguan government. The film features interviews with Miskito Indian people and some non-Miskito clergy who lived among them; they recounted actions of the government against them, including bombing of villages, shootings, and forced removal of people from their homes. The film was shown on some PBS stations and at the 1986 Sundance Film Festival.\n\nIn September 1987, the Nicaraguan legislature passed a statute providing autonomy to the Miskito. This essentially defused Miskito resistance.\n\nIn 1990 the Sandinistas were defeated in national elections. The Miskito signed an agreement with the newly appointed Minister of the Interior, Carlos Hurtado, to create \"security zones,\" prepare the return of the national police forces to the region, and integrate 50 Miskito into the police force.\n\nBrooklyn Rivera, one of the Miskito guerrilla leaders, became the director of the INDERA (Nicaraguan Institute of Development of Autonomous Regions), an illegal structure under the 1987 law on autonomy. The government suppressed the INDERA a few years later, allegedly because of conflict between the Miskito and other native groups\n\nIn 1998, Hurricane Mitch heavily damaged coastal regions where the Miskito live. On September 4, 2007, Category 5 Hurricane Felix with peak sustained winds of 160 mph struck the coast near Punta Gorda, Nicaragua. Damage and death toll estimates are around 100 but are likely to be higher.\n\nIn April 2009 the Miskito announced a unilateral declaration of independence from Nicaragua under the name Community Nation of Moskitia. (The Today (BBC Radio 4) feature on this included a rendering of their \"National Anthem\", which shares its tune with Patriots of Micronesia, etc.). This declaration has not been met with any formal response from the government of Nicaragua nor has it been recognised by any other state. The independence movement is led by Hector Williams, who is described as the leader of the Miskito and uses the title \"Wihta Tara,\" or Great Judge. They cited as reasons for their renewed desire for independence the serious economic problems damaging their traditional fishing industry and the recent election of Daniel Ortega as president of Nicaragua. Many of them had fought as Contras against him during the Nicaraguan Civil War and still opposed him. Thus, many Miskito who supported the independence movement were those who had suffered greatly economically.\n\nDespite the 1987 peace agreement affording the Miskito people substantial territory, conflict over land rights remains. Increasing waves of settlers have relocated to ancestral Miskito lands as a result of drought and attraction to gold and timber. Illegal purchases of indigenous lands afforded the settling farmers void land rights. Violence between settlers and Miskito, Rama, and Ulwa people have led to the burning of villages, rape of women, kidnappings and the death of at least 30. Approximately 600 indigenous people have fled to Honduras.\n\nBoth sides acknowledge that the Nicaraguan government has not worked to ameliorate this conflict. The Inter-American Commission for Human Rights repeatedly called for action in order to protect the Miskitos, to no governmental response. President Daniel Ortega has acknowledged that Miskito land claims are legitimate, and any land sales were not legal. The government arrested various public notaries for the authorization of illegal land sales, and created a special commission over the issue under the prosecutor general. However, the government has not addressed the violence. The public officials implicated in illegal land sales were Sandinistas, members of Ortega's own party.\n\nHistorically, the Miskito were not recognized as a singular \"people\" until their population grew in the area beyond being categorized as \"sparsely populated\". Largely, the Miskito are identified by their large amounts of ethnic heterogeneity resulting from miscegenation from African and native ancestors. In addition, their consistent historical and modern-day geographic presence on the Atlantic coast of Nicaragua and Honduras allows for recognition as an \"ethnic group\".\n\nAs a result of the ethnic heterogeneity present in the Miskito people, various ethnic subgroups exist within the larger Miskito identity. A major ethnic distinction exists between the Zambo Miskito and the Tawira. The Zambo Miskito constitute a large ethnic representation of Africans in the Cabo Gracias a Dios area, the survivors from a shipwrecked Dutch slaver. The Zambo Miskito would go on to form strong relationships with the British, with many Miskito kings coming from this group. The Zambo Miskito speak the \"Wanki Bila\" dialect of Miskito.\n\nThe Tawira Miskito, in contrast, have greater native ethnic representation and speak the \"Kabo Bila\" dialect of Miskito. According to Meringer, historical records reference the Tawira as \"pure Indians\". In order to counter their subjugation by the Zambo Miskito, the Tawira Miskito would seek out Spanish allies in the eighteenth century. Related groups include Garifuna, Maroons, Afro-Carribbeans, and Sumu.\n\nMiskitos inhabit the low-lying savannah known as the Miskito Coast in Central America. Prior to European contact, Miskitos were scattered along the Atlantic Coast of Nicaragua, inhabiting interior mountainous areas with numerous rivers and forests. The central point of Miskito territory is known as the Río Coco or Wangks River, which also serves as a border between Nicaragua and Honduras. The town of Awastara is a major population centre and historical site for the Miskito people.\n\nPrior to the 1859 Wyke-Cruz treaty with Britain, Miskito people inhabited the Cape of Gracias a Dios on the Caribbean coast and Honduran side of the Nicaragua-Honduras border. Despite the Wyke-Cruz treaty gaving the Miskito authority over the land, it has been ignored. However, their autonomy has been preserved as a result of their geographic isolation. In 2013, the Honduran granted five Miskito communities land titles to their traditional land, totaling about 1.6 million acres. 100 villages exist in this area, containing a population of approximately 22,000.\n\nThe majority of Miskitos speak their native Miskito language. The Miskito language is a part of the Misumalpan language family. Some villages also speak Sumu, a closely related language within these ethnic groups. In addition, many Miskitos have adopted figures of speech from English and Spanish largely resulting from increased instances of bilingualism. The Caribbean areas of Jamaica, Belize, San Andrés, and Providence, Colombia share linguistic commonalities with the Miskito Coast population, likely stemming from the mixture of native languages, African languages, as well as colonial languages.\n\nPrior to contact, Miskito people practiced a type of Shamanism where the shaman (known as Sukya) was seen as a healer by the community. The Sukya discovered cures by dreaming about them, and blowing smoke on the affected area. Group traditions included ritual dancing and drinking of a beverage known as mishla. Funeral traditions included a commemorative ceremony one year after death called Sikro. Only one leading shaman, known as Supreme Sukya or Okuli, could exist at a time and was revered by neighboring tribes as well. The Okuli exists as a representative to evil spirits, called Lasas. In the 1980s, shamans and group ceremonies took place in private.\n\nThe Moravian Church attempted to proselytize the Miskito beginning in 1849, after attempting to provide a religious institution for a nearby Prussian community which later failed. The Moravian Church represents a small branch of Protestantism that emphasizes community unity and simple living. By 1894, the Moravian Church had become a major interest group in the Atlantic coast area during the Nicaraguan reincorporation of the area through the establishment of missions. In the 20th century, the Moravian Church furthered its institutional presence through schools and production of religious materials and services in the Miskito native language. They did little to quell hostilities between the Miskito and Spaniard Catholics. By the 1960s, the Moravian Church seemed to play a central role in Miskito communities for anthropologists studying the area.\n\nCatholic converts existed in the Miskito region as early as the 1930s. Because of poor resources to send properly trained parsons and pastors, Miskito Catholics practice several \"innovations\" specific to the Miskito Coast. The lack of institutional Catholic presence led to many Moravian practices shared by Catholic leaders in the area. As a result, many Miskitos view differences in religions as institutionally based rather than theologically based. Churches in the area hold sanctity when occupied by the community, and are not revered as buildings in and of themselves. Further, Miskito experience divinity through dreams and discussions of good, bad, and human spirits. Shamans known as prapit or pasa yapti are the only individuals who physically experience divinity. Thus, Miskito Catholicism departs significantly from traditional Spaniard Catholicism as practiced by the majority of Nicaragua as it contains dimensions of a spiritual realm of divinity which humans can sometimes access.\n\nThe Miskito share folktales called kisi for entertainment. Kisi often include tales of a trickster rabbit named Tibam as well as kings, overall serving themes of authority and human nature and general. Some stories include myths of Duhindu, creatures similar to gnomes that sometimes kidnap children. According to researchers Ken Decker and Andy Keener, the Miskito share poems and stories, but do not have largely disseminated pieces of literature nor has anything been published. Media that appears in the area is largely in Spanish, with some programming in English and in regional languages.\n\nThe Miskito have musical traditions including round dances and traditional songs, as well as theatrical pieces including the symbol of the Miskito king. Regarding decorative arts, funeral ceremonies involve wooden masks.\n\nThe Miskito political structure has been profoundly shaped via its interactions with other cultures including Hispanicized Nicaragua as well as the British, acting on their perception of colonial power dynamics at any given time.\n\nBeginning with British arrival in the geographical area, the Miskito kingdom and political structure as a whole reflected British ideas of authority. The Miskito-British political dynamics would change with time but the two entities would remain operating in conjunction for approximately 250 years. Miskito kings were crowned by some of the first British settlers. This assignment of de facto political authority would create a lasting hierarchical power dynamic for the Miskito. Those recognized as kings by the British maintained this assignment as contact between mainland British and Miskitos increased.\n\nOfficially, the British government claimed political oversight of Miskito territory from 1740 to 1786—however, the British colonists inhabiting Miskito territory maintained the power dynamics established by the government even after its official expulsion. From 1860 to 1894, the Miskito Reserve period maintained centralized rule under a British-sympathetic Miskito chief. Importantly, the Nicaraguan government recognized this leader as Hereditary Chief but granted him authority over land separate from Miskito-inhabited land. Thus, through the Miskito Reserve the Miskito people were granted \"autonomy,\" but remained under British influence through the designated chief.\n\nThe British ultimately largely failed in attempts to create fully functioning centralized political structures for the Miskito largely as a result of the heterogeneity within the Miskito population. However, their establishment of a singular political leader did allow that individual to gain favor with the British and allow for continued contact between the two societies.\n\nDespite the propagated presence of British political ideology of centralized power, the political structure in the Miskito kingdom proved more tribal in nature. Late seventeenth century accounts of the Miskito describe them as an \"egalitarian society\" that was \"sparsely populated.\" As the Miskito population grew over time, the political structure effectively transformed into autonomous regional chiefdoms with vaguely defined social classes. Leaders at the time would rule over a given number of villages, with their political power bound to their recognized villages. This structure served to limit any single Miskito king's power over the Miskito as a whole, instead playing up the Miskito king's role in interacting with the British.\n\nAccording to Meringer, Miskito Indians enjoyed peak levels of autonomy in the nineteenth century after British colonists were forced out of the Mosquito Coast. The Miskito people themselves rose to power in the absence of the British, enjoying ethnic preeminence and little to no threats to their power. However, as the British began to resettle on the Atlantic Coast, the Miskito lost much of their officially recognized political power to African Creoles on representative governmental bodies. The Creoles would grow increasingly in power, overcoming the Miskito chief, and politically and culturally isolating the chief from the Miskito people at large. By the time of Re-incorporation, Miskito autonomy had already been threatened and substantially deconstructed by increases in Creole power.\n\nThus, during Re-incorporation, Nicaraguan government officials targeted Creole rulers rather than Miskito Indians. Later, Miskito took this opportunity to further Miskito autonomy and political authority in the region through a \"Decree of Re-incorporation\" which allowed representatives from the Miskito community to freely adhere to Nicaraguan laws and authorities while also granting Miskito people self-governance rights at the village level among other rights. This decree allowed previously marginalized Miskito to reclaim rights denied them by the ascendance of Creole elites earlier in the nineteenth century and allowed the population to unify.\n\nIn response to the indigenismo policies adopted throughout Latin America in the twentieth century, the Miskito people organized through activism to advocate for policies promoting political, social, and cultural assimilation. Specifically for the Miskito people, the activism in response to indigenismo policies encompassed a movement promoting integration and civil rights. Prior to the notable activist movements of the 1980s, the Miskito prioritized integration into state political structures and civil rights under the liberal Nicaraguan constitution. The movements of the 1960s and 1970s proved largely integrationist and was led by completely separate leaders than those after the Sandinista Revolution.\n\nAs early as the 1950s, Miskitos worked to confront the large and small injustices their community faced. By integrating into the Nicaraguan state via land titles, the Miskito were able to participate in the larger economy of the country and hold the state accountable to their local interests. This larger political participation fed into the Miskito locales, affording local representatives more power regarding territorial disputes in general, allowing for increased political involvement from Miskitos not directly tied to political processes.\n\nRegarding indigenismo, Nicaraguan officials viewed these policies as an opportunity to become more involved with the Mosquito Coast, which had previously been largely left alone. Miskito people were able to claim benefits at a larger governmental level that previously did not exist including technical training in medicine and agriculture, as well as increased access to education and more schoolhouses. For the Miskito in Nicaragua, indigenismo represented an opportunity to increase rapport with the government and greater access to previously inaccessible state resources rather than an affront to ethnic identity.\n\nThe Miskito people have been able to resist the influence of outside cultures for the most part. Contact with the English has created the position of a king who is seen as the figurehead of the tribes; however, the modern king has little power and generally does not affect the different tribes.\n\nThe gender roles within the Miskito culture are affected more by the \"boom and bust\" of the local economy than by any ruler. When there are few job opportunities men rely on agricultural work and they spend time within their respective communities. There is evidence that the society followed a patriarchal setup during these \"bust\" times; however, when the economy is \"booming\", men generally get jobs that force them to travel. Since the 1990s men have been traveling as a result of an increase in job opportunities, and they spend significant amounts of time away from their villages.\n\nMost men work on fishing boats diving for lobsters. Since men spend eight months out of the year away from their families, communities have a matrilocal arrangement. Typically men over age 13 are rarely present during daily life in a village.\n\nMen are considered the breadwinners of a household and contribute the majority of a family’s income, but women have the ability to make all economic decisions. Some women do housekeeping or sell small crafts to make extra money, but it is not enough by itself to support a family. Girls inherit the right to settle on their mother’s land, and although men clear farmland women have full ownership of it.\n\nIt is extremely difficult for women to find jobs, and most rely on men and their incomes to support their children. Many women practice \"magia amorosa\" (love magic), and they believe that it helps attract men and their money. This love magic can also be used to help save one’s marriage. Women have the greatest input in how their households are run, but they are unable to do anything without the money that their husbands provide. Love magic highlights the importance of keeping a man interested within Miskito society.\n\nWomen usually begin forming relationships at age 15, and most become mothers by 18. Most women have six to eight children with their husband, but since men are not around that often there are high abandonment and divorce rates. Men often feel no moral obligation to take care of children because of a high illegitimacy rate. Abandoned children are generally adopted by women within the child's matrilocal group and taken care of by an aunt or grandmother. As women become older they also gain status within their community. In each society women who are respected elders, \"kukas\", are considered local experts and enforcers of correct behavior in their village.\n\nMiskito oral tradition states that many centuries ago a tribe emigrated from northern South America and settled on the coast at a site called Sitawala - possibly near present-day Cabo Gracias a Dios. They were led by a warrior chief named Miskut, and called themselves the \"Miskut uplika nani\" (people of Miskut). The tradition states that neighboring tribes found it difficult to pronounce this name, and so shortened it to Miskito. After the death of Miskut, the tribe divided into three groups. One group ascended the Río Coco and became known as the river people. The other two groups moved north and south into present day Honduras and around present day Sandy Bay, Nicaragua. These people became known as the beach people.\n\nThe earliest European accounts of the Miskito are from Puritan colonists in 1633 and English and French buccaneers during the late 1600s-early 1700s. These early accounts claim that Miskito tribes ranged along the Caribbean coast from the Wawa River, south of present-day Bilwi, Nicaragua, to Cabo Camarón, Honduras. These early colonists, explorers and buccaneers described the Miskito as skilled maritime people adept a seafaring, fishing, and the hunting of turtle, manatee, as well as land animals such as deer. These accounts omit observations of agricultural activity and give the impression that the Miskito subsistence economy focused sole on marine resources. This, however, is not what the archaeological record, nor modern observations, suggest.\n\nWork conducted around Pearl Lagoon in Nicaragua by archaeologist Richard W. Magnus suggests that pre-contact coastal settlements were most likely temporary shellfish collection and salt manufacturing stations. Metates and other agricultural tools have been found in these coastal sites, however there is little evidence of permanent settlement, in-situ agriculture, nor specialized tools that would suggest adaptation to the marine environment. Furthermore, the lowland coastal soils are of poor agricultural quality and likely would not have supported permanent settlements. According to Magnus and others working in Honduran sites on the Río Tinto, these peoples were most likely riverine in nature. Archaeological sites inland show more signs of permanent settlement including house sites, animal/fish bones, hearths, and agricultural plots. It is suggested that these riverine people traveled temporarily to the coast to make salt and subsidize their agricultural diet with shellfish, but that their overall orientation was inland and not coastal . Despite a dearth of contact era reports, this theory of seasonal coastal migration is supported by the English buccaneer \"M.W.\" in 1732 who observed inland tribes who seasonally arrived at the coast to make salt before travelling back up river. Anthropologist Mary W. Helms and Geographer Bernard Nietschmann argue that the coastal orientation of the modern Miskito was precipitated by contact and subsequent social, economic and political involvement with colonial Great Britain.\n\nThe colonization of Providence Island off the coast on present day Nicaragua by the British Providence Island Company in 1630 precipitated the formation of settlements around 1633 on the Miskito Coast at Cabo Gracias a Dios, and further south at present day Bluefields, Nicaragua. The first known proto-Miskito contact with the English occurred around 1634 at the Cabo trading post.\n\nThe English regularly traded with the proto-Miskito for turtle shells, meat, lumber, hides, and other items in return, for beads, rum, clothing, food, livestock, and firearms. Many of these items were acquired by the coastal tribes through barter with inland tribes. In addition to trade, the English established sugar and indigo plantations and imported slaves. As time passed, the proto-Miskito, in contrast to the inland peoples, mixed openly with the English and their African slaves and adopted some of their cultural traits, incorporating English and African words into their vocabulary and adopting European tools, food, clothing, and firearms – becoming the contact culture known today as the Miskito.\n\nIn addition to periodic trade, the Miskito were involved in British piracy of the 17th century. The buccaneers adopted Miskito communities as their bases and employed the Miskito in their cause. The buccaneers regularly employed local Miskito men to accompany them on their voyages as fishermen, hunters, navigators, and fighters. Through these experiences, the Miskito became adept raiders and raiding and slaving became a part of their local economy. With the support of the English and English firearms, the Miskito expanded out of their cultural hearth near Cabo Gracias a Dios, and settled widely along the Miskito Coast - subjugating neighboring tribes. Following the decline of buccaneering at the end of the 17th century, many of the buccaneers turned to more legal ways of making money including cash crop production, and contraband. Sugar, Dye wood and contraband made up the majority of the local economy and wage labor became more common.\n\nThe Miskito culture and economy is a product of intermixing between coastal indigenous tribes, English pirates, traders, and settlers and their African slaves. The Moskito Coast, since colonial times, has been an economic frontier characterized by barter and boom/bust economies where markets develop to exploit specific resources, such as turtles, precious lumber, rubber, bananas, and logwood and collapse when the world market busts leaving little long term development. As such, there has always been a commercial component to the economy, however, due to the inevitability of economic busts and their isolation from national powers, the Miskito have maintained their subsistence culture without being absorbed into the full-time market economy – what anthropologist Mary Helms refers to as a ‘purchase society’. A purchase society is a power dynamic in which the indigenous are not subjugated as peasants, but still interact with a merchant or elite class via trade - retaining their autonomy and identity.\n\nThe Miskito subsistence economy was based primarily on hunting, fishing, and some limited agriculture and silviculture. The nature of the economy was one of subsistence and reciprocity. Subsistence activities were traditionally divided by gender. Women tended to the agriculture, while the men cleared land, hunted, fished, and worked in wage labor when it was available. As Geographer Bernard Nietschmann highlights, there was a complex system of meat reciprocity which served as a sort of social security system for the society. If a hunter or fisherman was successful, they would gift some of the catch to their extended family and ‘sell’ it to their friends with the expectation that the favor would be returned. Traditionally, there was a balance between subsistence and commercial activities. When commercial goods were in demand Miskito labor shifted towards commercial activities and subsistence activities were neglected. Upon the decline of the commercial activities, the Miskito fell back on their subsistence skills. However, the rise of the company economy precipitated a fundamental shift in the Miskito economy away from these short term/seasonal economic relationships to more regular long-term employment of contract wage labor and exploitation of communal resources for commercial gain. A major challenge to the Miskito system of meat reciprocity was the commercialization of the green sea turtle, a staple of the Miskito diet\n\nThe Miskito have hunted green turtles as part of their traditional subsistence economy since at least the contact era. Much of the Miskito subsistence system, and settlement patterns were based around the seasonal appearance of the green sea turtle. In the 17th century, the buccaneer William Dampier wrote that the Moskito Indians were \"esteemed and coveted by all privateers\" because of their skill at hunting turtle and manatee, \"for one or two of them [the animals] in a ship will maintain 100 men\". The traditional method of capture was the harpoon. The harpoon was eight to ten feet in length and attached to a strong line. the turtle hunters traveled in small, seagoing canoes, using complex mental maps and systems of navigation to locate the turtles. A hunting party consisted of two men: a \"strikerman\" in the bow, and the \"captain\" in the stern. The hunters intercepted the turtles in the area between their sleeping shoals and feeding banks as they surfaced for air. After being harpooned, the turtle was capable of pulling a canoe along at high speeds until eventually tiring. The hunters could then pull the turtle alongside the canoe and kill it. Once killed, the turtle was returned to the community where the meat was divided among family and friends.\n\nIn general, no more turtles were hunted than could satisfy the community's meat needs. However, increased demand from international markets during the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries led to changes in hunting methods. The activities became market-focused instead of subsistence-focused. Foreign companies established commercial enterprises and hired Miskito turtlemen to facilitate intensive harvesting of green turtles to support sugar plantation labor, but also European palates. Exploitation was so intense that sea turtle populations in the greater Caribbean basin had been decimated by the mid-1800s, and villagers were confronted with rising social tensions due to increased dependence on a scarce resource. In the present day, sea turtle populations have recovered to a point, but the Miskito now balance a desire for turtle products with the forces of local, national, and international conservation goals.\n\nThe establishment of European, and later American hegemony on the Miskito Coast opened up the region for foreign business interests and the introduction of wage labor. The period between the turn of the 20th century and the 1960s became known as the company period, and was defined by large foreign enterprises, company run communities, and wage labor in the extraction of natural resources. During this time, lumbering of mahogany and other valuable trees, cash cropping of sugar and other products, which had existed in reduced form since the 17th century, expanded into large commercial enterprises. In terms of lumber, companies hired Miskito men to find, cut, and deliver desirable trees or tree products to the coast where they were then exported to Europe or the United States. By the end of the 1800s, lumber and rubber were major employers of male Miskito labor and foreign investment was high. The effects of this influx of money could be seen in the Miskito community of Bilwi.\n\nPrior to 1921, the community of Bilwi (Puerto Cabezas), Nicaragua was little more than a small fishing village, but starting in this year a consortium of business from the United States, including the Bragman’s Bluff Lumber and Fruit Company, and Standard Fruit began developing the community into their base of operation and main export port. The companies together outfitted the community with a lumber mill, pier and port facilities, and a regional railroad system for the extraction of lumber and bananas. By 1926 Bragman’s Bluff Lumber was the largest employer in Nicaragua, with over 2000 workers. Pine lumbering persisted with periodic booms and busts through the 1960s. Bragman’s Lumber recorded its largest shipment of lumber at Bilwi in 1960 with just over 28.4 million linear board feet.\n\nThe other major boom market for this period was in bananas. The banana boom, with its plantation employment, lasted from the 1890s -1930s - peaking in the 1931. At the port of Bilwi, Standard Fruit recorded it all-time high production of 6.1 million \"racimos\" (clusters) in 1931. As a result of economic depression in the United States, and a soil fungus outbreak, the banana economy quickly busted. By the end of WWII exports at Bilwi were down to 99,685 racimos and by 1960 the number was down to 9,753. Gold-mining and pine lumbering also began in the late 1800s and persisted with periodic booms and busts through the 1960s. Seafood, including shrimp and lobster, has been the most recent boom market in the region since the 1970s.\n\nOverall, the company period was known for its boom and bust economies. Massive hirings during economic upswings were followed by massive layoffs. During boom times, skilled and unskilled workers would flood into town, only to return to their homes after the price of lumber, bananas, or ores dropped leaving ghost towns, and abandoned infrastructure. During the company period, it was common for the Miskito men to leave their communities and families for up to a year at a time, to work in the various industries. They would send back money as replacement for the subsistence goods that they would have traditionally produced. Without their husbands and male family members, the women were increasingly forced to purchase food (especially meat) on the cash market and hire farm hands to clear and tend agricultural plots. This employment dynamic led to the large-scale introduction of the money-based economy, and the replacement of subsistence goods with relatively inexpensive commissary goods. This shift created a dependency on commercial goods and cash earning employment.\n\nIncreasing demand in the United States led to a boom in commercial exploitation of spiny lobster along the Moskito Coast beginning in the 1970s. Lobster, like products of past booms, has become a major source of cash income for the Miskito and the great majority of the population either directly or indirectly depends on lobster income. In 2011, the industry employed around 3500 people on 44 boats in Honduras alone. In Nicaragua, it has been estimated that commercial lobster diving employs over 5,000 people and affects the livelihoods of 50,000 men, women and children. Many of these people work as divers, using scuba equipment to dive and catch lobster.\n\nThe vast majority of fishing operations are controlled by ladino boat owners based in the Bay Islands of Honduras and Puerto Cabezas, Nicaragua. These owners employ local recruiters or \"sacabuzos\" in coastal communities to organize crews of dive teams, as well as other boat hands. A dive team consists of a diver and \"cayuquero\"; a diver apprentices who follows the diver in a canoe allowing the diver to offload his catch. In addition to 18-20 dive teams, a boat employs additional support staff to cook, clean, and manage the diving equipment.\n\nAt the beginning of a fishing trip, the lobster boats travel the coast picking up recruited dive teams and boat hands. They then search for lobster at known lobster banks between Honduras and Columbia, often illegally and usually over the course of 12–16 days. The divers are paid by the pound for lobster tails alone. In the early days of the boom, lobster tails of 1-2 pound were common whereas by the early 1990s a diver needed 2-3 lobsters to make the same weight. At that time, the average diver brought in, per trip, 150-180 pounds of lobster. By 2011 the estimated average was down to 74 pounds/trip. Following the catch, the boats return the crew members to their communities, and the catch is processed in the Bay Islands or Puerto Cabezas before being shipped to primarily the United States.\n\nSince the 1960s, the Miskito have used free-diving techniques to harvest lobsters as their primary source of income. In the early years of the lobster boom, large and plentiful lobster were found close to shore in shallow waters, and could be accessed easily by free-diving. Lobster production peaked, however, around 1985, and these resources, were quickly depleted. Scuba diving techniques were introduced around 1980 to enable the Miskito to expand their area for harvesting into deeper waters. Declining returns have forced divers to dive more often, deeper, and for longer, using pressurized tanks to maintain their income. In response to declining lobster populations, the governments of Honduras and Nicaragua implemented a fishing season - restricting lobster exploitation to between March 1 and July 30. The goal was to reduce pressure on lobster populations, but the result has also increased pressure on lobster divers. It is not uncommon for divers to make 12-16 dives per day to depths of 100–120 ft. in an effort to maintain their incomes. The result has been an increase in the number of cases of decompression sickness and decompression related deaths. Around 2013, Honduras had the highest number of decompression related deaths and sickness in the world. Estimates at that time put the number of injured somewhere over 2000, while over 300 others have died since the 1970s. The divers almost universally lack formal dive training, and the push to maintain their incomes leads divers to dive too much and stay down too long. In response to activist outcries, several large lobster importers in the United States announced in 2015 that they will no longer purchase dive caught lobster, however, similar efforts by Red Lobster in 1993 failed to disrupt the industry. In 2009 both Honduras and Nicaragua agreed on regional regulations to prohibit lobster diving. Regional agreement OSP-02-2009 - \"Reglamento para el Ordenamiento Regional de la Pesquería de Langonsta del Caribe\" was signed by the nations of Central America on May 21, 2009 and was to prohibit tank assisted lobster diving within two years. These regulations, however, have not been enforced, partly because of political pressure from the fishing industry and a lack of viable economic alternatives in on the Miskito Coast. In a 2011 census of Honduran lobster divers, 36% of injured divers continued to dive after their first accident and 50% of divers had considered quitting due to the risks, but continued, because of the lack of viable economic alternatives.\n\nThe 2012 documentary film \"My Village, My Lobster\" examines the individuals and communities involved in this fishing industry. The film features testimony from divers who have been injured, boat owners and captains who are responsible for the divers' safety, and a hyperbaric medicine specialist who treats injured divers. The film includes footage from aboard a commercial lobster diving vessel and from the remote Miskito Keys (or Miskito Cays), the noted turtle-hunting grounds of the Miskito.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13416135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13416135", "title": "Neighbourhood Support", "text": "Neighbourhood Support\n\nNeighbourhood Support is a term used, predominantly in New Zealand, to refer to schemes similar in intent to \"Neighbourhood Watch\", with some additional objectives.\n\nNeighbourhood Support is a community owned programme that is promoted as making homes, streets, neighbourhoods and communities safer and more caring places in which to live.\n\nNeighbourhood Support works closely with the Police and a number of other organisations, to reduce crime and to prepare people to deal with emergencies and natural disasters in their community.\n\nNeighbourhood Watch was introduced to New Zealand as a crime prevention initiative in the late 1970s. The initiative evolved to become Neighbourhood Support New Zealand, a community owned and managed organisation with a wide-ranging interest in crime prevention and community safety.\n\nNeighbourhood Support became an Incorporated Society in 2000. In 2001 it signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the New Zealand Police. The purpose of the Memorandum of Understanding is to establish and promote a collaborative working relationship between Neighbourhood Support New Zealand Incorporated and the Police.\n\nNeighbourhood Support aims to make homes, streets, neighbourhoods and communities safer and more caring places in which to live.\n\nThis is primarily achieved through establishment of small cells of households known as a \"Neighbourhood Support Group\", comprising anywhere from 4 to 50 residential households in a single street or suburb. Groups throughout a single suburb or a wider town or city area are co-ordinated either via a civilian co-ordinator (paid or voluntary), or through a Community Constable based at a local Police station.\n\nThe main purpose of the groups is to encourage neighbours to know one another and share information on crime or suspicious activities in their area. Early contact with authorities such as the Police is also encouraged for reporting of unusual observations or unacceptable behaviour. Crime prevention information can also be shared with group members via Community Constables, or Neighbourhood Support Area Co-ordinators.\n\nA secondary objective of Neighbourhood Support is to facilitate communication between Civil Defence (Emergency Management) and the community during a man-made or natural disaster affecting residents.\n\nThe following description is based on the framework adopted in New Zealand but is similar in intent to schemes known as \"Neighbourhood Watch\" in other countries.\n\nNeighbourhood Support New Zealand is the National body that oversees a total of 12 district Neighbourhood Support organisations throughout New Zealand.\n\nSmall cells of households in a single street or adjoining houses in nearby streets form what is known as a \"Neighbourhood Support Group\". This can comprise anywhere from 4 to 50 residential households in a single street or suburb.\n\nInformation about local crime, crime prevention and community safety advice is provided to neighbours through participation in a Neighbourhood Support Group. Members exchange phone numbers and meet occasionally over an issue or simply to stay in touch. Some groups may have organised meetings or social functions, but this is incidental to the role of the contact person and may be co-ordinated by another group member. More recently, email addresses are also collected and are being used very effectively to enable faster contact with groups.\n\nEach group is supported by a \"Group Contact\" person who is one of the members of the group. Larger groups may have several \"Contact\" persons. The role of the Contact Person is to ensure that group contact lists are updated as people arrive or leave the street, and group contact lists are provided to group members and to Area Co-ordinators. Newsletters received from the Area Co-ordinator or Community Constable are also distributed to members.\n\nRural towns or sections of a city are co-ordinated by one or more \"Area Co-ordinators\" whose role is to assist Neighbourhood Support Groups with crime related information for their area, provide a conduit for Police to distribute crime alerts, and pass on other community safety information.\n\nIn some cases, a single Street Contact person may also act as an informal Area Contact, tying together a number of groups in the same suburb or street.\n\nGovernance of the Neighbourhood Support movement in New Zealand, is provided through a national organisation Neighbourhood Support New Zealand which is overseen by a Board. Board members are elected civilian representatives from each Neighbourhood Support District. A Police representatives nominated by New Zealand Police national headquarters attends Board meetings representing the Commissioner, and has a liaison and advisory role. A formal Memorandum of Understanding is established between Neighbourhood Support New Zealand and the New Zealand Police to make clear the nature of the relationship, and the obligations of each party.\n\nRegionally, activities within each district are overseen by a District Committee with boundaries aligned with those of the Police Districts.\n\nThere are local committees established in most individual rural towns or cities across New Zealand. The local committees exist to support fundraising for employment of co-ordinators and to fund promotional activities, while the District committees have the purpose of overseeing groups of towns or cities and enabling them to more effectively support one another. The district committee also provides a vehicle for election of a District Representative to the National organisation, and can provide local oversight where there is no local committee.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1610472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1610472", "title": "Niggerati", "text": "Niggerati\n\nThe Niggerati was the name used, with deliberate irony, by Wallace Thurman for the group of young African-American artists and intellectuals of the Harlem Renaissance. \"Niggerati\" is a portmanteau of \"nigger\" and \"literati\". The rooming house where he lived, and where that group often met, was similarly christened Niggerati Manor. The group included Zora Neale Hurston, Langston Hughes, and several of the people behind Thurman's journal \"FIRE!!\" (which lasted for one issue in 1926), such as Richard Bruce Nugent (the associate editor of the journal), Jonathan Davis, Gwendolyn Bennett, and Aaron Douglas.\n\nAt a time when sexism and homophobia were common, and when the African-American bourgeoisie sought to distance itself from the slavery of the past and seek social equality and racial integration, the Niggerati themselves appeared to be relatively comfortable with their diversity of gender, skin colour, and background. After producing \"FIRE!!\", which failed because of a lack of funding, Thurman persuaded the Niggerati to produce another magazine, \"Harlem\". This, too, lasted only a single issue.\n\nIn his autobiographical novel, \"Infants of the Spring\", Thurman referred to the Harlem literati, whose pretensions he often considered to be spurious and whose achievements he often considered to be second-rate, as the Niggerati. (In the novel, Sweetie May Carr, a character modelled on the real-life Hurston, christens the Harlem rooming house where Dr Parkes, modelled on the real life Alain Locke, establishes a salon of artists, Niggerati Manor, just as Thurman's own rooming house was in real life.) Thurman himself was infamous amongst that literati, although popular amongst the younger, bohemian, crowd. Thurman rejected what he called \"society Negroes\". He himself, as many others of the literati did, would hold parties on Saturday nights, which Langston Hughes described in \"The Big Sea\" by observing that \"at Wallace Thurman's you met the bohemians of both Harlem and the Village.\" Recalling the days of Niggerati Manor, Theophilus Lewis wrote:\nAll three of Hughes, Hurston, and Thurman enjoyed the shock value of referring to themselves as the Niggerati. Hurston's biographer Valerie Boyd described it as \"an inspired moniker that was simultaneously self-mocking and self-glorifying, and sure to shock the stuffy black bourgeoisie\". Hurston was actually the coiner of the name. The quickest wit in what was a very witty group, which encompassed Helene Johnson, Countee Cullen, Augusta Savage, Dorothy West (then a teacher), Harold Jackman, and John P. Davis (a law student at the time), as well as hangers-on, friends, and acquaintances, Hurston dubbed herself the \"Queen of the Niggerati\". In addition to Niggerati Manor, the rooming house at 267 West 136th Street where both Thurman and Hughes lived, Niggerati meetings were held at Hurston's apartment, with a pot on the stove, into which attendees were expected to contribute ingredients for stew. She also cooked okra, or fried Florida eel.\n\nWhilst Hughes, Hurston, and Thurman were comfortable with the appellation, others were less so. Cullen, for example, found Carl Van Vechten's novel \"Nigger Heaven\" so offensive that he refused to talk to him for 14 years. Hurston, though, had no trouble with language that challenged the sensibilities of others. She dubbed the well-heeled white liberals who were involved in the Harlem Renaissance \"Negrotarians\" (c.f. rotarian).\n\n\"FIRE!!\" itself represented the aesthetic frustrations of the Niggerati. Its single issue was published in November 1926, a year after the publication of Alain Locke's \"The New Negro\". Whilst \"The New Negro\" was viewed by the Niggerati as subtle propaganda, appropriating their talents for racial propagandist purposes, \"FIRE!!\" was intended to be \"devoted to the younger Negro artists\", and was edited, paid for, and published by the Niggerati themselves, with the intention both of being purely aesthetic and of causing outrage amongst black literary critics. The journal's title came from a poem that Hughes had written, which was a sinner's lament in the fashion of a Negro spiritual. In a letter written to Locke, Hurston stated that there needed to be \"more outlets for Negro fire\", and the Niggerati distanced themselves even from Locke, declining his offer of patronage for the journal.\n\nIn addition to Nugent; Bennett, Douglas, Thurman, Hurston, and Hughes formed the journal's editorial board, with Thurman at the head. Davis was the business manager. Each editor was supposed to contribute 50 dollars towards the publication costs, although only three (not including Hurston) actually did. Thurman signed an I.O.U. for the printer, making him personally liable for the bill of nearly $1,000. He borrowed $150 from the Harlem Community Church, and another $150 from the Mutual League, only to be mugged on a street corner in Harlem, losing both all of the money and his clothing. For the next four years, Thurman's pay was attached in order to pay the debt. Hurston solicited subscriptions on a folklore-collecting trip to the South in 1927, in order to help, and both she and Hughes submitted essays to \"World Tomorrow\", which had loaned money to \"FIRE!\", to repay that loan.\n\nThis shaky financial foundation was symptomatic of the troubles that beset the journal, one of the most major of which was that none of the Niggerati had time to work on it. By the Autumn of 1926, Hurston had begun a course at Barnard, Hughes had returned to college in Pennsylvania, Davis was at Harvard and occupied with editing \"Crisis\", Bennett was at Howard and occupied with her column for \"Opportunity\", and even Thurman had taken a new job editing \"World Tomorrow\" magazine. Nugent and Douglas were artists, not editors. One of Nugent's stories, submitted for publication, was destroyed accidentally whilst stored at Hurston's apartment, and he had to rewrite it. He did so on a roll of toilet paper, which he gave to Thurman. Nugent himself stated that the most amazing thing about \"FIRE!!\" was that it was ever published at all.\n\nIn a final irony, the printer gave the entire print run of the magazine to the Niggerati, in the hope that they would sell better in quantity, only for several hundred copies to be lost in a fire in the basement in which they were stored. Hurston later commented \"I suppose that 'Fire' has gone to ashes quite, but I still think the idea is good.\".\n\nThe one issue of \"FIRE!!\" to be published contained stories by several of the Niggerati, most of which had transgressions of moral and aesthetic boundaries as their themes. Thurman's story \"Cordelia the Crude\" was a story about a sixteen-year-old black girl becoming a prostitute — an image that would have outraged black critics of the time, whose view of black female sexuality was that images of it should be moral. Nugent's story was \"Smoke, Lilies and Jade\", an overtly homoerotic story with black and Latino protagonists, and the first such story published by an African American. Hurston submitted two stories, one of which, her play \"Color Struck\" (a reworked version of what she had won the 1925 \"'Opportunity\" contest with), Thurman had considered printing under a nom de plume, in order to prevent the issue being too \"Zoraish\". Like the other stories, \"Color Struck\" condemned the bourgeois attitude of envying whites, on biological and intellectual grounds, its subject being that of a woman who was so conscious of the colour of her skin that she missed out on the love of a good man. Her other submission was a short story entitled \"Sweat\", which Hemenway praises as being \"a remarkable work, her best fiction of the period\", and observes that such stories could have led to the magazine's eventual success, had it not suffered from the other problems.\n\nThe Niggerati sought to challenge borgeoise attitudes with \"FIRE!!\", and intended it (in Thurman's own words from his solicitation letters) to be \"provocative [...] to provide the shocks necessary to encourage new types of artistic interest and new types of artistic energy\". However, their efforts failed. They were not taken very seriously. Most of the negative reactions were little stronger than slaps on the wrist. Locke criticized their \"effete echoes of contemporary decadence\" and yet praised their anti-Puritanism. The NAACP even handled some of the journal's prepublication publicity. Du Bois, editor of \"Crisis\", simply ignored them.\n\nThe way in which the Niggerati \"thought\" that \"FIRE!!\" was received reveals much about their intent in publishing it. Hughes wrote in \"The Big Sea\" that \"None of the older Negro intellectuals would have anything to do with \"FIRE\". Dr. Du Bois in \"Crisis\" roasted it.\". In fact, Du Bois did no such thing. The only mention that \"FIRE!!\" received was a brief announcement in the January 1927 issue, calling it \"a beautiful piece of printing\" that was \"strikingly illustrated by Aaron Douglas\" and concluding \"We bespeak for it wide support.\". Hughes \"thought\" that Du Bois panned \"FIRE!!\" because he \"expected\" him to pan it, that being the reaction that he and the other Niggerati had intended to elicit. Nugent reported that once all initial submissions had been made, Thurman had asked the group for something that would get the journal banned in Boston, which led to the inclusion of \"Cordelia the Crude\" and \"Smoke, Lilies and Jade\".\n\nThe Niggerati's next magazine, \"Harlem\", published in November 1928, was subtly different in tone to \"FIRE!!\". Whilst still choosing themes that critics considered inappropriate and shocking, the magazine was more politically oriented, was more commercially viable, and had a wider variety of articles, stories, advertisements, and other contents. It also had a different look, and lacked the inter-generational rhetoric of \"FIRE!!\". Thurman himself described it as a \"wholly new type of magazine\", with a new outlook, celebrating \"a new day in the history of the American Negro\". Thurman aimed the magazine squarely at the New Negroes envisioned by Locke and others. Unlike \"FIRE!!\", \"Harlem\" was not intended solely a vehicle for the Niggerati themselves, but was intended to accept articles from anyone, as long as the authors had skill.\n\nMost of the editors of \"FIRE!!\" also contributed to \"Harlem\". They also approached other writers. One such was Nella Larsen, a friend of Peterson. Peterson had wanted no part in another magazine published by Thurman, and had been approached by Nugent and Scholley Alexander, to write a monthly theatrical column, under the pretext that Alexander was the editor. Upon receiving a thank-you letter with Thurman's name as editor on the letterhead, she withdrew, despite pleas from Alexander acknowledging Thurman's \"selfish treatment of those who have helped him gain a place in the literary world\" and stating that he would not let Thurman run amok. Alexander asked Peterson to ask her friends \"to forbear — to \"with-hold their criticism until they have the first issue at hand to criticize\"\" (original emphasis and underlining). Larsen also declined, on the grounds that she was not going to be paid for her submissions, confessing that her ultimate goal in writing was \"money\". \"I write so slowly and with such great reluctance that it seems a waste of time.\", she also observed.\n\nThe first issue of \"Harlem\" contained essays by Lewis, Locke, Nugent, and Walter Francis White; poems by Helene Johnson, Georgia Douglas Johnson, Alice Dunbar Nelson, and Effie Newsom; stories by Roy de Coverly and George Little; and illustrations. Although intended to be more moderate than \"FIRE!!\", Thurman abandoned this stance in later pages of the issue. His review of Larsen's \"Quicksand\" gave closer attention to the review of the novel given by Du Bois than it did to the novel itself, saying that Larsen \"no doubt pleases Dr. Du Bois for she stays in her own sphere and writes about the sort of people one can invite to one's home without losing one's social prestige. She doesn't give white people the impression that all Negroes are gin drinkers, cabaret hounds and of the half world. Her Negroes are all of the upper class. And how!\".\n\nLike \"FIRE!!\", \"Harlem\" also failed, with the readership responding unfavourably. Nugent wrote to Peterson after the publication of the first issue, expressing his disappointment and blaming the failure on \"Wally's\" editorship. According to Nugent, neither Alexander nor Douglas had been able, nor had had the strength, to counteract Thurman. Nugent himself had been on tour, with the cast of \"Porgy\", whilst the issue was being edited. Nugent distanced himself from the magazine, and wanted it made clear to Van Vechten that he had not been \"in any way responsible for the perpetration of \"Harlem\"\". In December 1928, Thurman resigned from the magazine's editorial board.\n\n"}
{"id": "54109386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54109386", "title": "Operation Bullish", "text": "Operation Bullish\n\nOperation Bullish is an ongoing corruption investigation in Brazil.\n\nOn May 12, 2017, Brazilian authorities released that they were investigating whether JBS SA had received illegal financing advantages from the state-owned bank BNDES. Dubbed \"Operation Bullish,\" police stated that such operations had led to a loss of around $385 million in public funds. JBS said financing for its unit was lawful, while BNDES said it was cooperating with authorities. Executives such as CEO Wesley Batista and chairman Joesley Batista were questioned by federal police. The court forbid the Batistas from restructuring the business during the investigation. \n"}
{"id": "16698107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16698107", "title": "Polygyny threshold model", "text": "Polygyny threshold model\n\nThe polygyny threshold model is an explanation of polygyny, the mating of one male of a species with more than one female. The model shows how females may gain a higher level of biological fitness by mating with a male who already has a mate. The female makes this choice despite other surrounding males because the choice male's genetics, territory, food supply, or other important characteristics are better than those of his competitors, even with two females on the territory.\n\nThe graphical depiction of the model presented in Gordon Orians' 1969 paper is often used to explain the concept. The graph shows two curves on a graph of biological fitness versus environmental quality. Environmental quality refers to the quality of the male's territory. The left curve, labeled monogamous, is the perceived biological fitness for a female entering into a monogamous relationship with a given male. The right curve, labeled bigamous, shows the fitness of the same female entering into a relationship with a different male who already has one female mate but who has defended more resources. The second curve is roughly the first curve shifted to the right some amount. The given shapes of the curve will change with other intrinsic factors like genetic quality and male paternal investment. It is important to note that the designation \"female\" and \"male\" here are oft accurate; however, in some mating systems the operational sex ratio leans towards females, who then have motivation to engage in resource defence polyandry (provided the requirements of economic defendability are met).\n\nThe intersection of the vertical dotted line on the left with the monogamous curve indicates the biological fitness of a female who chooses a monogamous male with a lower environmental quality. The intersection of the vertical dotted line on the right with the bigamous curve indicates the biological fitness of a female who enters into a bigamous relationship with the male of a higher environmental quality. The difference between these two intersection points, labeled PT, is the \"polygyny threshold\". It is the gain of environmental quality for the female when she chooses the bigamous relationship and thus the minimum environmental quality difference necessary to make bigamy beneficial for the female. Also important is the vertical line drawn from the intersection of the line with the bigamy curve to the monogamy curve above. This represents the fitness gain of a female who chooses bigamy over monogamy due to, here, resource holding differences.\n\nOrians predicted that animals exhibiting resource defence polygyny, such as the fish Neolamprologus pulcher would fit to this model when living in successive habitats, where territory quality is very variable. Using the territory quality to decide whether to pursue a monogamous or polygynous mating relationship. This is shown in the red-winged blackbird by Pribil and Searcy (2001). Female red-winged blackbirds prefer to mate with males with territories over water and also unmated males. The females were given a choice between unmated males or previously mated males with the superior territories over water. In 12 out of 14 trials (86%) females choice the already mated male with the superior territory.\n\nAccording to William A. Searcy and Ken Yasukawa, the term cost of polygyny is defined as the net costs of polygyny after the summation of all of the component costs and benefits. Costs include less parental care and increased competition between females for the male's provision and food among other resources. A benefit could be group defense of the territory and resources. Searcy and Yasukawa graphically defined the distance between curve 1 (monogamous line) and curve 2 (bigamous line) of the polygyny threshold model graph (see above) to be the cost of polygyny. N. B. Davies further defined it as the cost of sharing in order to be clear that the term refers to the fitness cost to females that are breeding on the same territory.\n\nSearcy and Yasukawa conducted studies on Pennsylvania red-winged blackbirds that showed that females would mate on territory already settled by another female, which indicated that there was no cost of polygyny. However, in a later study by Pribil and Picman conducted on Ontario populations of red-winged blackbirds the results indicated that there was indeed a cost of polygyny. The females in this study were given a choice between adjacent territories, one in which there was already a settled female (defined by many researchers as the primary female) and the other in which there was no female present. In all 16 situations, the females chose the unsettled land in which she could be monogamous. Davies, Krebs, and West, in their textbook An Introduction to Behavioural Ecology, cited another Pribil study noting the polygyny cost to the red-winged blackbird females. The effect of polygyny made them less effective mothers when they were removed and taken to a more isolated population, proven by the fact that the mothers from monogamous relationships had better adaptation to the new environment. In an earlier text, Davies explores the examples of costs, showing that the cost is not always to the second and subsequently joining females. He asserts that there are situations in which the cost is shared between the primary and secondary female. He also mentions scenarios in which the primary female receives a decrease in her fitness upon addition of the secondary female to the harem.\n\nThere are many other studies concerning the polygyny threshold model and costs to polygyny using other species. Staffan Bensch conducted a study on the great reed warbler that showed the only cost of polygyny to these females to be higher mortality of nestlings that were belonging to the primary female. Johnson, Kermott, and Lien conducted a study on the house wren (Troglodytes aedon) showing that there were inherent polygyny costs to these female populations, also. The secondary females lost more of the broods largely because of starvation, and they also experienced lesser reproductive success in other areas. One of the main factors in their decreased fitness was less male aid. Kyle Summers and David Earn studied female poison frogs, genus Dendrobates, to see if the polygyny costs drove the evolution of the parental care system from a female care to biparental or paternal care. They concluded that the costs could not be concluded to be the sole cause of this parental transition. The numerous studies concerning polygyny costs show the different factors that not only cause these costs, but are also affected by these costs.\n\n"}
{"id": "1610997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1610997", "title": "Public sex", "text": "Public sex\n\nPublic sex is sexual activity that takes place in a public context. It refers to one or more persons performing a sex act in a public place, or in a private place which can be viewed from a public place.\n\nSuch a private place may be a back yard, a barn, balcony or a bedroom with the curtains open. Public sex also includes sexual acts in semi-public places where the general public is free to enter, such as shopping malls. Public sex acts can be performed in cars (colloquially called \"parking\"), on beaches, in forests, theatres, buses, aeroplanes, streets, toilet cubicles, or cemeteries.\n\nIn September 2003, the BBC reported on a \"dogging\" craze fueled by Internet publicity. Dogging is a British English slang term for engaging in public sex, usually in a car park or country park, while others watch. Dogging has aspects of exhibitionism and voyeurism.\n\nThere is some evidence on the Internet that \"dogging\" has begun to spread to other countries, such as the United States, Canada, Ireland, Australia, Barbados, Brazil, the Netherlands, Denmark, Norway, Poland, and Sweden.\n\nOutdoor public sex purportedly takes place often in parks and beaches in Vancouver and San Francisco. According to the \"New York\" magazine, public sex occurs frequently in New York City, and is a fantasy common to many people.\n\nSocial views related to public sex and sexuality vary greatly between different cultures and different times. There are many and varied laws which apply to sex in public, which use a variety of terms such as indecent exposure, public lewdness, gross indecency, and others. In some jurisdictions, an offense is committed only if the participants are seen by others, so that a sex act may occur in a closed toilet cubicle without an offense being committed.\n\nIn the UK, there has been a rise in public sex venues, possibly due to a more relaxed approach to the enforcement of laws relating to public sex since the early 1990s.\n\nThe legal status of public sexual conduct was addressed in United Kingdom as part of the Sexual Offences Act 2003. Section 71 of the act makes it an offence to engage in sexual activity in a public lavatory. In the United Kingdom public sex comes under laws related to voyeurism, exhibitionism or public displays of sexual behaviour, but public sex law enforcement remains ambiguous. Prosecution is possible for a number of offences under section 5 of the Public Order Act 1986, exposure under section 66 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003, or under the common law offence of outraging public decency. The policy of the Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) is that arrests are a last resort and a more gradual approach should be taken in such circumstances.\n\n"}
{"id": "5274133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5274133", "title": "Racial polarization", "text": "Racial polarization\n\nRacial polarization is the process whereby a population, the individuals of which have varying degrees of diversity in their ancestry, is divided into separate, and distinct (from each other) racial groups.\n\nIn Bermuda, around 55% of the population is identified as black, followed by 34% white (further subdivided into a British-descended majority and a Portuguese-descended minority), while the remainder are mixed or other (chiefly Asian).\n\nPolitically the territory's two political parties are often described along racial lines, the United Bermuda Party (UBP) being supported by Bermuda's white minority, while the Progressive Labour Party (PLP) is supported by the black majority. In terms of popular support, few whites would not vote for the UBP (In an April 2009 poll, some 85% of whites would vote for the party, while only 4% would vote PLP), while black voters favoured the PLP (in the aforementioned poll, 62% of blacks would vote PLP, 14% UBP). White rejection of the PLP is often linked to repeated racist rhetoric from the party, aimed not only at whites but at black opponents, who have been referred to as \"house niggers\" (race traitors). The party has even been described as a \"write-off\" in terms of diversity by members of the Portuguese-Bermudian community, which is often regarded as a separate ethnic/racial group. Black rejection of the UBP stems from associating the party with racial segregation and slavery; while formed in the 1960s, white old money that was involved in those institutions supports the party. Within the House of Assembly of Bermuda, there is negligible white presence, with only five white MPs (four UBP and one PLP) out of thirty-six (around 14%); in the appointed Senate of Bermuda, the white presence is three out of eleven (around 27%).\n\nEconomically the advantage lies in the white population, with white holding higher positions and earning higher incomes; these figures do not distinguish between Bermudians and temporary expatriate workers, however, leading to exaggerated figures stemming from the hire of executives from the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom (thus, typically white), and the hire of unskilled, poorly treated labourers from the Caribbean, Jamaica in particular, (thus, typically black) and so leave their relevance unknown.\n\nSociologist Dr Syed Farid Alatas pointed out \"We do not live according to the three principles for harmonious relations – recognising the multi-cultural origins of civilization, inter-religious encounters and showing respect and understanding the point of the other,\" \"We have little appreciation for each other’s religion and culture.\" \"Our education system does not inculcate these attitudes in us but instead tends to polarise us. We have little appreciation for each other’s religion and culture. In China, there is a strong interaction between Islam and Chinese culture.\" He also said \"Dialogue is a matter of national integration but the Malaysian education system does not inculcate the three pre-requisites for inter-religious cooperation and relations\".\n\nWhen asked why this was so, Rais stated that in national schools, there is \"too much religion, too much Islam. They became frightened. That is the big impediment to the races studying together under one roof.\" He then recommended \"Have religious classes by all means. But keep away Islam from other aspects of life in the school. No doa (Muslim prayers) at the assembly, no doa in the classroom except during religious classes.\" (see Issues in Malaysian Education)\n\n"}
{"id": "12557555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12557555", "title": "Redstone Building", "text": "Redstone Building\n\nThe Redstone Building, also known as the Redstone Labor Temple (and formerly called \"The San Francisco Labor Temple\"), was constructed and operated by the San Francisco Labor Council Hall Associates. Initial planning started in 1910, with most construction work done during 1914. Its primary tenant was the San Francisco Labor Council, including 22 labor union offices as well as meeting halls. The building was a hub of union organizing and work activities and a \"primary center for the city's historic labor community for over half a century.\"\n\nThe Redstone building played a significant role in the 1917 United Railroads Streetcar Strike as well as the San Francisco maritime strike that led to the 1934 San Francisco General Strike for better working conditions for all workers. The Redstone has been designated San Francisco's 238th landmark.\n\nThe Redstone is located at 2940 16th Street between South Van Ness, formerly Howard Street, and Capp. The building is situated on the very edge of what used to be an industrial zone, with large industrial facilities like the U.S. Steel facility, now a MUNI facility. The city also built a large armory two blocks away as part of the city's politically divisive labor history.\n\nThe North Mission District was a working-class neighborhood from around 1870 up until the 1960s. The neighborhood continues to have a large number of ornate Victorian houses nearby. The North Mission was built and mostly populated by Irish Americans, but also included a Greek community as well. Early neighbors included Woodward Gardens and an Insane asylum on Howard and 15th.\n\nThe Redstone building is within a few blocks of the Mission San Francisco de Asís, the Victoria Theater, Rainbow Grocery Cooperative, which was originally the Mack Truck company, that was then replaced by a regional St Vincent DePaul center, and Roxie Theaters in the Mission District. What is currently a Walgreens store used to be a boxing arena.\n\nThe San Francisco Labor Temple was dedicated on September 7, 1914 by former San Francisco mayor and head of the local Building Trades Council P.H. McCarthy. The cornerstone was set by A.J Gallagaher. The San Francisco Labor Council held a grand opening for the Labor Temple on February 27, 1915. The SF Labor Council newspaper, the Labor Clarion, described the building on the front page of its newspaper on February 26, 1915. The article described the building interior and gave details such as the $150,000 construction cost. The building included 22 office spaces, a number of large halls, and the main auditorium. The building would have its own medical and dental clinic. One of the first steel frame buildings erected in San Francisco, the building is steel reinforced with a brick facade on two sides and masonry on the other. A new wing to the building was added in 1939 at a cost of $92,000.\n\nThe Labor Temple was the longtime home of the many important city unions including the Labor Council, the Clarion newspaper and the Union Labor Party which had early success in electing two different Mayors of San Francisco. The building also helped take part in Tom Mooney's defense campaign as well as many strikes and political campaigns.\n\nA May 1916 Union Directory had 54 unions using the building for their meetings. The bakers and bakery wagon drivers, the bindery women, blacksmiths, butchers, carriage and wagon workers, cigar makers, coopers, horseshoers, ice and milk wagon drivers, janitors, sail makers, and tailors all met at the Labor Temple.\n\nThe most significant historical event at the Labor Temple took place in July 1934 when the longshoremen and maritime workers led San Francisco workers in the momentous General Strike that changed the labor movement forever. The waterfront workers lived on the fringes of society in conditions that, even for those times, were abominable. The longshoremen had to pay for their jobs on the dock; the seafarers were little more than slaves on the ships. They wanted no more than any worker wants: dignity on the job and off, justice, a living wage. They were willing to strike because their conditions were so bad, they had almost nothing to lose.\n\nThe longshoremen and seamen had been out on strike for about three months without much success, few other unions had joined them in sympathy, but the strikers hung on. The shipping companies were determined to bring the strikers to their knees and stop the strike. They had hired armed guards as well as San Francisco police to do their dirty work. For several days there had been fighting on Rincon Hill. On July 5, just outside the strike kitchen at 113 Steuart, an unnamed policeman fired into a crowd of longshoremen and their sympathizers, shooting several of them. Two died. The deaths of Howard Sperry and Nick Bordoise stunned the public. This infamous day in San Francisco labor history became known as “Bloody Thursday” and galvanized the rest of the unions to support the struggle.\n\nThe next day (July 6) was the regular Friday night session of the San Francisco Labor Council. The Council members packed the auditorium in the Labor Temple; hundreds more spectators jammed the halls and overflowed onto 16th Street. A growing demand for a general strike was on the minds of the rank and file members. Fourteen unions had already taken action supporting a general strike and others were planning action. Harry Bridges was in attendance and asked for immediate action on an International Longshoreman’s Association (ILA) resolution underscoring its position that the question of union hiring halls “cannot possibly be submitted to arbitration.” The resolution was approved without dissent as was a second resolution condemning Governor Merriam for calling out the state militia. This resolution urged a peace based on ‘simple justice and not military force.” At this meeting the S.F. Labor Council set up a Strike Strategy Committee to, in the words of the ILA Strike Bulletin, “make plans of a strike that will stop every industry in the city.” The bulletin noted, too, that the council had endorsed the ILA’s refusal to arbitrate the closed shop. Bridges declared, “This is no longer the ILA’s fight alone. Thursday’s bloody rioting has crystallized labor’s attention on the conditions under which the ILA works and labor is demanding concerted action. The Labor Council is definitely behind the marine strike.”\n\nOn July 9, a funeral procession bearing the bodies of the two slain unionists walked down Market Street. Estimates range from 15,000 to 50,000 in the procession. Thousands more lined the sidewalks. Fearing that sight of police on the streets would incite workers further, City Hall agreed that the strikers would be in charge of crowd control. There was no talking, no sound except a quiet funeral dirge, and the tramp of feet, but the air was electric with that sound. Their deaths – and that march – forged the solidarity that became the West Coast General Strike. The march ended at 17th and Valencia at the mortuary, just two blocks away from the Labor Temple. No doubt many mourners walked over to the Temple afterward to be together. To try to make some sense of what was happening. To decide what to do next.\n\nAlthough a number of unions, including the Teamsters, had already decided to strike by July 12, the Labor Council’s Strike Committee had not yet formally acted. It was in the auditorium of the Labor Temple where the vote was taken that sent the 175 unions of the SF Labor Council out on strike in support of the Longshoremen and Seafarers. The new General Strike Committee had already written up the motion. You would recognize many of the names on that strike committee: Jack Shelly, A. Noriega, Mike Casey, and of course, Harry Bridges. The strike vote meeting was held on Saturday, July 14, with the strike to commence on Monday, July 16, at 8 am. The S.F. Chronicle of July 15 reported the strike decision inside the Labor Temple in a colorful description: “Amid scenes of wildest conditions, with hundreds of delegates shouting and scores of others in a condition approaching hysteria, labor made the most momentous decision in many years. Throngs mulled about the Labor Temple at Sixteenth and Capp streets during four hours…” Finally, a hod carrier by the name of Joe Murphy made the motion.\n\nThe historic San Francisco General Strike went on for four days, ending July 19, 1934. The strike was a success, opening the way to end the longshoremen’s and maritime workers’ strikes but extending beyond their demands to change the relationship between worker and boss forever. The maritime workers won the most contested issue, hiring halls with a union selected job dispatcher. Longshoremen won a six-hour day and 30-hour workweek while seamen won an eight-hour day. The solidarity with their brothers on the docks shown by the General Strike in San Francisco was heard around America in the midst of the Great Depression. Labor historian David Selvin called it a “new day” when workers acted from a new awareness of common grievances and common purpose, a newly recognized class identity that inspired workers nationwide.\n\nThe building was a major social gathering area for the North Mission with two banquet halls in the basement and its first floor Assembly Hall that included pool tables. Fees from its pool tables and licensed slot machines helped cover the cost of running the building, which had 21 employees in 1955. The Hall Association was forced to close the Assembly hall's slot machine operations in the early 1950s due to a national crackdown on gambling and unions. Working people started abandoning the Mission for the suburbs, causing a general decline of the building and the neighborhood. The San Francisco Labor Council considered selling the building as early as 1955 but decided to renovate instead. The Labor Council took out a $275,000 loan to bring the building up to code, including a new front entrance. The basement was turned into a number of smaller office spaces, while the Assembly Hall and the Auditorium next door were combined into a single space for larger meetings. There were damages to the exterior from the 1957 San Francisco earthquake that struck the city, the largest since the 1906 earthquake.\n\nThe 1950s brought with it the McCarthy era and a renewed Red Scare focusing on unions as well as Hollywood. It culminated in the HUAC hearings and blacklists.\n\nOn April 5, 1966 Dow Wilson, the secretary of the Brotherhood of Painters, Decorators and Paperhangers' San Francisco Local 4 was killed around the corner from the building in a corruption dispute. His murder led to the building being sold to Peter Blasko for $228,000. The sale helped SFLC pay off their outstanding loan. They continued to lease space as did other unions after the murder of Wilson. Blasko later sold the property to the M.K Blake Estate which held the building until 1989. By this time the building had become a community center.\n\nThe Mission District which used to be predominantly Irish and working class had been shifting towards a predominantly Latino community. By the early 1980s the building would be leased to mostly Latino organizations with a couple labor organizations, the local chapter of the American Federation of Teachers, which represented teachers at San Francisco City College and ABSCME Local 1650 CUCE.\n\nTheatre Rhinoceros or \"The Rhino\", was established in 1977 to produce original LGBT live theater to explore \"the ordinary and extraordinary aspects of our queer community\" moved into the Redstone in 1981. The Rhino was the first gay theatre to receive funding from the National Endowment for the Arts and is the \"world’s oldest and longest-running queer theatre\" and was the Redstone's 2nd oldest and largest tenant producing \"an unparalleled amount of original work\" shown in The Rhino's two theaters. The Rhino's marquee and box office were at the Redstone's north entrance. After 5 years of major rent increases Rhino left the building on June 30, 2009.\n\nAfter the 1988 death of Henry Hawke, who had been doing the maintenance and co-manager, M.K. Blake Estate sold the building to David Kimmel. Just as the sale was completed, the October 1989 earthquake struck the city, damaging an old add-on closet on the north wing of the building. The damaged section as well as an old water tower were removed. Kimmel who also had properties in downtown Santa Cruz went into bankruptcy due to damages to all of his properties. Brad Ahekian, attempted to reorganize Kimmel's properties but failed and abandoned the property in July 1992. The building went into court-ordered receivership that was held by Brighton Pacific. It was then picked up in September 1992 by David Luchessi, an investor of Kimmel's.\n\nOn March 1, 1996, The Lab began its move into the Redstone Building from its original location at 1805 and 1807 Divisadero Street, where, since 1984 it had run a black-box theater, art gallery and working facilities for artists: SoundLab, DesignLab, PrintLab and PhotoLab. The new Redstone space was too costly, so a floor-to-ceiling wall was built that reduced the overall space by 1/3. It is the same 3,000 sq ft footprint The Lab occupies today. Early projects include the mural project, sound-proofing, and The Lab's signature visual, sound, music and performance programming.\n\nThe Clarion Alley Mural Project (CAMP), named after their first mural project on Clarion Alley (between 17th and 18th Streets near Mission Street) and The LAB announced the mural project to the tenants on April 19, 1996 after getting tentative support from the Redstone Building Manager. The LAB was awarded a grant from the Mayor's Office to cover artist fees and expenses for the mural project, and for the design and installation of a handicapped lift, to allow access to the entertainment venues The Lab and Theater Rhinoceros.\n\nCAMP members spent several months researching the history of the building at San Francisco State University's Labor Archives. They followed this up with surveys to all of the Redstone Building tenants, followed by several meetings, including the first one with tenants on June 19, 1996. Working color sketches were supposed to be presented to tenants on September 3, 1996, but delayed until October 25, 1996. The sketches were then taken to the Building owner who gave permission to begin painting the murals. The initial phase of the CAMP project was made up of nine artists: Carolyn Castano, John Fadeff, Susan Greene (a Redstone tenant), Barry McGee, Ruby Neri, Sebastiani Pastor, Rigo '96, Lilly Rodriguez, Chuck Sperry and Project Director Aaron Noble. The project outreach coordinator was Mary Newson with the Lab's Laura Brun coordinating the administration of the city grant, which was part of the original $1.8 million Mission Armory Foundation money that was broken up by Mayor Brown and given to arts groups across the city.\n\nOn January 25, 1997 the Redstone Labor Temple Mural Project was dedicated by San Francisco mayor Willie L. Brown, Jr.\n\nThe lobby and first floor of the Redstone's walls are covered by the CAMP murals, covering the building's labor, Filipino, Latino and gay history that \"reflect the building’s history and many uses\" and are \"commemorating key labor actions like the (1934) strike and picket by the Chinese Garment Workers Union and the formation of the Bindery Women's Union.\"\n\nSix of the completed Red Stone Building murals depict the activities of the labor unions in the building (from 1914 to 1966). Chuck Sperry recreated the scene of a Labor Council planning meeting for the landmark 1934 General Strike, while Aaron Noble’s piece illustrates two important moments in the City’s labor history—when the corrupt union official Ben Rasnick was thrown out of the Red Stone Building by Dow Wilson; and, later, when Wilson was murdered by shotgun fire on April 5, 1966.\n\nOther labor-themed murals in the building are Isis Rodriguez’s illustration of the Bindery Women’s Local 125, which occupied the building in the early 1920s; Sebastiana Pastor's depicting the organization of the Chinese Ladies Garment Workers Union Local 341 in 1938; Ruby Neri (with Alicia McCarthy)'s personal work (in ball-point pen) on the theme of sign painting—an oblique tribute to Sign Painters' Local 510, which sanctioned the project; and Susan Greene's rendering of the Service Employees International Union's hotel and department store strike of 1941.\n\nThe remaining six murals reflect later uses of the building. Two are historical: John Fadeff's piece evokes construction of the building's foundation, and Carolyn Castaño's depicts ballroom dancing in the former Filipino-American social club. Others reflect the building’s current uses: an abstract piece by stencil artist Scott Williams for the entrance of the LAB, invoking a technological urban landscape; Barry McGee's illustration of immigrants floating to a new land; Rigo '97's \"3/4 Water,\" celebrating the environmental organizations in the building; and Matt Day's small piece dedicated to the building’s many alternative media organizations. Later, a mural honoring long-time building tenant Theater Rhinoceros was added to the project.\n\nThere is also a mural on the second-floor produced by the former Women's Luna Sea Theater Company.\n\nThe project was coordinated by the interdisciplinary artists group known as The LAB which produces art shows and events year round in the former labor temple's auditorium.\n\nThe tenants of the Redstone started organizing and formed the Redstone Tenants Association (RTA) in 1999 to coordinate organizing around possibly buying the building and making general improvements to the large property as part of a general concern about gentrification of the neighborhood resulting in evictions and rising rents. San Francisco was experiencing a hot rental market with the dot-com boom that created high-paying technical jobs and, in the process, displaced both commercial and residential renters with evictions and skyrocketing rents. With the help of the Mission Economic Development Association (MEDA) the tenants obtained a grant to do their own economic analysis of the building with the intent to make a formal bid for purchase. A variety of entities were approached with the hope of finding a non-profit owner. The Redstone Tenants Association is now known as the Redstone Labor Temple Association and has 510(c)(3) status.\n\nThe first grant the RTA obtained was for $2,000 from the National Trust for Historic Preservation, which was used to start the process of obtaining historic landmark status for the building. The landmarking took from 2001 to 2004 to complete. The city formalized the building's historic status on July 14, 2004, assigning it number 238. It is the second labor-related historic landmark in San Francisco. Exactly three years to the date of gaining historic landmark status, the annual \"Labor Fest\" did the first mural tour of the building and surrounding neighborhood.\n\nOn July 31, 2004 the Redstone celebrated the landmark status that had been bestowed by the San Francisco Board of Supervisors. The event included a proclamation from the Board as well as Walter Johnson, head of the SF Labor Council, who presented the plaque to the Redstone Building manager and Betty Traynor, RTA organizer. The event included musicians, poetry and historic information about the building, along with union members whose organizations once inhabited the former union hall.\n\nThe Redstone Building was the location of the first public archives and office of the Gay and Lesbian Historical Society (now known as the GLBT Historical Society), an internationally recognized museum, archives and research center for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender history. Founded in 1985, the organization was housed in a private home until 1990, when it moved into a basement space in the Redstone Building. After five years, the society moved out of the building and has subsequently been housed in larger spaces on Market Street and Mission Street in San Francisco.\n\nAs of the year 1999, the current building had nearly of tenant space housing over forty tenants and four theaters, including Theatre Rhinoceros, the oldest gay theater in the U.S. and the Redstone's largest tenant.\n\nToday, its tenants include three theater ensembles: gay Theatre Rhinoceros, feminist Luna Sea, and the Latino El Teatro de la Esperanza. Other causes are evidenced by the groups' names: the Mission Area Federal Credit Union, the Filipino-American Employment and Training Center, the Industrial Workers of the World, the Homeless Children's Network, the Coalition on Homelessness, Hard Hat Magazine, the Eviction Defense Network, California Prison Focus, and on and on.\n\n\"We call it a microcosm of the Mission and The City,\" said Elisabeth Beaird, the administrative director of The Lab, a visual and performance art gallery. \"Almost every group is represented: Latino, activist causes, the arts, gays.\"\n\nThe building lost Woman's Luna Sea Project in 2005, Spirit Menders in July 2007, Mission Agenda in 2006, Cine Accion in 2006, Homes Not Borders in 2006, IndyBay in 2006, the Homeless Children's Network in August 2007, and the Mission Area Federal Credit Union in October 2007. Theater Rhino, the building's oldest and largest tenant, was forced to leave on June 30, 2009 due to large rent increases over the preceding years. The rest of the building's tenants have also experienced large rent increases in that time period. Following a protest, a new round of increases was blocked in the spring of 2009.\n\nThe following groups currently are or used to be tenants at the building at 2940 16th Street in San Francisco.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1114029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1114029", "title": "Rudy Tomjanovich", "text": "Rudy Tomjanovich\n\nRudolph Tomjanovich Jr. (born November 24, 1948) is an American retired basketball player and coach who coached the Houston Rockets to two consecutive NBA championships. He was an All-Star forward for the Rockets during his playing career.\n\nTomjanovich was born in Hamtramck, Michigan, to a family of Croatian descent. He attended high school in Hamtramck and later the University of Michigan (from 1967 to 1970). He was a high school teammate of ABA player John Brisker.\n\nIn college, Tomjanovich set Michigan Wolverines men's basketball career rebounding records that continue to stand. In 1968 he earned second team All-Big Ten honors, which he followed with first-team honors in 1969 and 1970. During 1970 he was also an All-American.\n\nTomjanovich was selected in the 1970 NBA draft as the second overall pick by the San Diego Rockets (the franchise relocated to Houston in 1971), for whom he would play the entirety of his NBA career. He was also drafted in both 1970 and 1974 by the Utah Stars of the ABA. In his eleven years in the NBA, Tomjanovich had a scoring average of 17.4 points and a rebounding average of 8.1, earning five All-Star Game selections in the process (1974–1977, 1979). He is the third-leading scorer in Rockets history behind Hall of Famers Calvin Murphy and Hakeem Olajuwon. Because his last name was so long, the back of Tomjanovich's jerseys would read \"RUDY T.\", rather than his 11 character name.\n\nThe Rockets retired Tomjanovich's #45 jersey upon the conclusion of his playing career. His collegiate jersey, also #45, was retired by the University of Michigan in 2003.\n\nDespite Tomjanovich's noteworthy career as a player, he is perhaps best remembered for an infamous occurrence at the height of his playing career. In a December 9, 1977 game, the Los Angeles Lakers' Kermit Washington punched Tomjanovich. The blow shattered Tomjanovich's jaw and face and inflicted life-threatening head injuries, leaving him sidelined for five months. He eventually made a full recovery, and would even make an All-Star team two years later. However, his playing career slowly came to a halt and he was forced to retire in his mid-30s. The story and aftermath are recounted in the John Feinstein book \"The Punch: One Night, Two Lives, and the Fight That Changed Basketball Forever\".\n\nTomjanovich retired in 1981 and became a scout for two years before being named an assistant coach in 1983. He served as an assistant under Bill Fitch and Don Chaney.\n\nTomjanovich was named the Rockets' interim head coach in February 1992 after Chaney's resignation. After nearly leading the Rockets to a playoff berth, he was then given the job on a permanent basis.\n\nIn his first full season on the job (1992–93), Tomjanovich guided the Rockets to the Midwest Division title, making him the first head coach to ever take his team from the lottery to a division crown during his first full season. Building on this success, Rudy T. led the team to back-to-back NBA championships in 1994 and 1995; additionally, the Rockets were the only team other than the Chicago Bulls to win multiple championships during the 1990s, with their titles being bookended by the Bulls' two runs of three consecutive titles each. On the playoff run to their second title, the Rockets became the lowest seed (sixth) to win one, and the only team in history to defeat the teams with the four best regular season records in the playoffs. It was on the floor of The Summit after they captured their second title that Rudy proclaimed, \"Don't ever underestimate the heart of a champion!\" In his 11-plus season tenure as Rockets head coach, he posted a 503–397 (.559) regular-season record and a 51–39 (.567) playoff mark. His career wins and winning percentage are Rockets franchise records. After the 1998-99 season, the Rockets would not make the playoffs for the rest of his coaching tenure, and would consistently finish in the division cellar; Tomjanovich left the team after the 2002–03 season when he was diagnosed with bladder cancer (from which he has since made a full recovery ), ending a 33-year association with the Rockets franchise—including its first 32 years in Houston—as a player, assistant coach and head coach.\n\nIn 1998, Tomjanovich volunteered to coach the U.S. men's senior basketball team at the FIBA World Championship in Greece. Despite the absence of NBA players due to contract negotiations, Tomjanovich guided the hastily assembled group of CBA players to the bronze medal. In light of his outstanding service in coaching at the 1998 Worlds and his stellar professional resume, Tomjanovich was tabbed to coach the U.S. men's senior team at the Games of the XXVII Olympiad in Sydney, Australia. The U.S. Team won the gold medal with an 8–0 record. On February 15, 2006, Tomjanovich was named director of scouting for USA Men's Basketball.\n\nIn 2004, Tomjanovich signed a five-year, $30 million contract to replace Phil Jackson as coach of the Los Angeles Lakers. He resigned after 41 games, citing mental and physical exhaustion unrelated to his past bout with bladder cancer. The Lakers paid him a $10 million settlement, leading to speculation that the Lakers had instead terminated his contract. Tomjanovich stayed with the Lakers as a consultant.\n\nTomjanovich was well known for his instinctive managerial style and intensity on the bench. Always self-deprecating, he nonetheless heaped tremendous pressure on himself and his assistants to be prepared for each game, several times being hospitalized for exhaustion. After winning back-to-back titles, Tomjanovich deflected much of the praise and eschewed the \"genius\" label assigned to other champion coaches like Chuck Daly and Phil Jackson. His hands-off, easy-going manner with his players gave him a reputation as a \"players coach\", and as such veteran players were eager to play on his teams. Among the stars who requested and were granted trades to Houston during his tenure were Clyde Drexler, Charles Barkley, and Scottie Pippen.\n\nIn 1970, Tomjanovich married Sophie Migas, a former cheerleader. They have three children, two daughters and one son. \n\nTomjanovich has participated with the Texas Children's Cancer Center to help raise funds for cancer research. He has also helped promote a deadbolt called the \"Ultimate Lock\" and CieAura health care products.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33179299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33179299", "title": "Santrokofi language", "text": "Santrokofi language\n\nSantrokofi or Selee (\"Sεlεε\", name of both people and language) is spoken in the mountainous central part of the Volta Region of Ghana. It belongs to the geographic group of Ghana Togo Mountain languages (traditionally called the \"Togorestsprachen\" or Togo Remnant languages) of the Kwa branch of Niger–Congo.\n"}
{"id": "26671155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26671155", "title": "Scott Scurfield", "text": "Scott Scurfield\n\nScott Alan Scurfield (born 29 March 1963, in Somerset County, Pennsylvania) is a former Somerset County public defender. Scurfield is notable for acting in the defense of West Pharmaceutical Services in litigation following the explosion and fire at the company’s Kinston, North Carolina facility in January 2003.\n\nScurfield has been licensed to practice law in both Pennsylvania and North Carolina, and is a member of the North Carolina State Bar. He currently practices with the law firm of Riddle & Brantley LLP. Scurfield’s family has owned the coal mining company, Scurfield Coal Inc., for three generations.\n\nScurfield earned a bachelor of Arts degree in Business/Economics from the University of Pittsburgh at Johnstown (Latin honors|magna cum laude) in 1985, but rather than entering the family business he instead advanced to earn a Juris Doctorate from the University of Pittsburgh School of Law in 1988.\n\nScurfield maintained a general law practice in Pennsylvania for twelve years, representing his family’s coal mining business and also focusing on litigation, bankruptcy, and criminal defense. During this period Scurfield took on the responsibility of being a Somerset County public defender. It was in this role that he represented the Pennsylvania State Correctional Institution inmate, Ernest C. Evens, who was accused of beating his cell mate to death in 1995.\n\nIn 2000 Scurfield moved to North Carolina. He practiced in the area of insurance law before joining the law firm of Leone Noble & Seate in 2009 where he practiced bankruptcy and personal injury law. Since 2010 he has practiced with the law firm of Riddle & Brantley LLP (www.justicecounts.com) where he practices Social Security Disability Law and Personal Injury Law out of the firm's Raleigh office.\n"}
{"id": "28822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28822", "title": "Sex worker", "text": "Sex worker\n\nA sex worker is a person who is employed in the sex industry. The term is used in reference to all those in all areas of the sex industry including those who provide direct sexual services as well as the staff and management of such industries. Some sex workers are paid to engage in sex acts or sexually explicit behavior which involve varying degrees of physical contact with clients (prostitutes and some but not all professional dominants); pornography models and actors engage in sexually explicit behavior which are filmed or photographed. Phone sex operators have sexually-oriented conversations with clients, and do auditive sexual roleplay.\n\nOther sex workers are paid to engage in live sexual performance, such as webcam sex and performers in live sex shows. Some sex workers perform erotic dances and other acts for an audience. These include: striptease, go-go dancing, lap dancing, neo-burlesque, and peep shows. Sexual surrogates work with psychoanalysts to engage in sexual activity as part of therapy with their clients. Thus, although the term \"sex worker\" is sometimes viewed as a synonym or euphemism for \"prostitute\", it is more general. \"Sex worker\" can refer to individuals who do not directly engage in sexual activity such as pole dancers, sex toy testers, and strip club managers. Another example of sex workers that would not fall under the term \"prostitute\" would be an adult talent manager, who negotiates and secures pornographic roles for clients. There are also erotic photographers who shoot and edit for adult media and porn reviewers who watch and rate adult films.\n\nSome people use the term \"sex worker\" to avoid invoking the stigma associated with the word \"prostitute\". Using the term \"sex worker\" rather than \"prostitute\" also allows more members of the sex industry to be represented and helps ensure that individuals who are actually prostitutes are not singled out and associated with the negative connotations of \"prostitute.\" In addition, choosing to use the term \"sex worker\" rather than \"prostitute\" shows ownership over the individuals' career choice. Some argue that those who prefer the term \"sex worker\" wish to separate their occupation from their person. Describing someone as a sex worker recognizes that the individual may have many different facets, and are not necessarily defined by their job.\n\nSex work is different from sexual exploitation, or the forcing of a person to commit sexual acts, in that sex work is voluntary \"and is seen as the commercial exchange of sex for money or goods\". In an attempt to further clarify the broad term that \"sex work\" is, John E. Exner, an American psychologist, worked with his colleagues to create five distinct classes for categorizing sex workers. One scholarly article details the classes as follows: \"specifically, the authors articulated Class I, or the upper class of the profession, consisting of call girls; Class II was referred to as the middle class, consisting of 'in-house girls' who typically work in an establishment on a commission basis; Class III, the lower middle class, were 'streetwalkers' whose fees and place of work fluctuate considerably; Class IV sex workers have been known as 'commuter housewives', and they are typically involved in sex work to supplement family income; and Class V consists of 'streetwalker addicts', or 'drugs-for-sex streetwalkers' who are considered the lower class of the profession.\"\n\nThe term \"sex worker\" was coined in 1978 by sex worker activist Carol Leigh. Its use became popularized after publication of the anthology, \"Sex Work: Writings By Women In The Sex Industry\" in 1987, edited by Frédérique Delacoste and Priscilla Alexander. The term \"sex worker\" has since spread into much wider use, including in academic publications, by NGOs and labor unions, and by governmental and intergovernmental agencies, such as the World Health Organization. The term is listed in the Oxford English Dictionary and Merriam-Webster's Dictionary.\n\nThe term is strongly opposed, however, by many who are morally opposed to the sex industry, such as social conservatives, anti-prostitution feminists, and other prohibitionists. Such groups view prostitution variously as a crime or as victimization, and see the term \"sex work\" as legitimizing criminal activity or exploitation as a type of labor.\n\nSex workers may be any gender and exchange sexual services or favors for money or other gifts. The motives of sex workers vary widely and can include debt, coercion, survival, or simply as a way to earn a living. Sexual empowerment is another possible reasons why people engage in sex work. One Canadian study found that a quarter of the sex workers interviewed started sex work because they found it \"appealing\". The flexibility to choose hours of work and ability to select their own client base may also contribute the appeal of sex work when compared to other service industry jobs. Sex work may also be a way to fund addiction. This line of work can be fueled by an individual's addiction to illegal substances before entering the industry or being introduced to these substances after entering the industry. These motives also align with varying climates surrounding sex work in different communities and cultures. In some cases, sex work is linked to tourism. Sex work can take the form of prostitution, stripping or lap dancing, performance in pornography, phone or internet sex, or any other exchange of sexual services for financial or material gain. The variety in the tasks encompassed by sex work lead to a large range in both severity and nature of risks that sex workers face in their occupations. Sex workers can act independently as individuals, work for a company or corporation, or work as part of a brothel. All of the above can be undertaken either by free choice or by coercion. Sex workers may also be hired to be companions on a trip or to perform sexual services within the context of a trip; either of these can be voluntary or forced labor. Transgender people are more likely than the general population to do sex work, particularly trans women and trans people of color. In a study of female Indian sex workers, illiteracy and lower social status were more prevalent than among the general female population.\n\nMany studies struggle to gain demographic information about the prevalence of sex work, as many countries or cities have laws prohibiting prostitution or other sex work. In addition, sex trafficking, or forced sex work, is also difficult to quantify due to its underground and covert nature. In addition, finding a representative sample of sex workers in a given city can be nearly impossible because the size of the population itself is unknown. Maintaining privacy and confidentiality in research is also difficult because many sex workers may face prosecution and other consequences if their identities are revealed.\n\nWhile demographic characteristics of sex workers vary by region and are hard to measure, some studies have attempted to estimate the composition of the sex work communities in various places. For example, one study of sex work in Tijuana, Mexico found that the majority of sex workers there are young, female and heterosexual. Many of these studies attempt to use smaller samples of sex workers and pimps in order to extrapolate about larger populations of sex workers. One report on the underground sex trade in the United States used known data on the illegal drug and weapon trades and interviews with sex workers and pimps in order to draw conclusions about the number of sex workers in eight American cities. However, studies like this one can come under scrutiny for a perceived emphasis on the activities and perspectives of pimps rather than those of sex workers themselves. Another criticism is that sex trafficking may not be adequately assessed in its relation to sex work in these studies.\n\nDepending on local law, sex workers' activities may be regulated, controlled, tolerated, or prohibited. In most countries, even those where sex work is legal, sex workers may be stigmatized and marginalized, which may prevent them from seeking legal redress for discrimination (e.g., racial discrimination by a strip club owner), non-payment by a client, assault or rape. Sex worker advocates have identified this as whorephobia.\n\nThe legality of different types of sex work varies within and between regions of the world. For example, while pornography is legal in the United States, prostitution is illegal in most parts of the US. However, in other regions of the world, both pornography and prostitution are illegal; in others, both are legal. One example of a country in which pornography, prostitution, and all professions encompassed under the umbrella of sex work are all legal is New Zealand. Under the Prostitution Reform Act of New Zealand, laws and regulations have been put into place in order to ensure the safety and protection of its sex workers. For example, since the implementation of the Prostitution Reform Act, \"any person seeking to open a larger brothel, where more than four sex workers will be working requires a Brothel Operators Certificate, which certifies them as a suitable person to exercise control over sex workers in the workplace. [In addition,] sex workers operating in managed premises have access to labour rights and human rights protection and can pursue claims before the courts, like any other worker or employee.\" In regions where sex work is illegal, advocates for sex workers' rights argue that the covert nature of illegal prostitution is a barrier to access to legal resources. However, some who oppose the legalization of prostitution argue that sex work is inherently exploitative and can never be legalized or practiced in a way that respects the rights of those who perform it.\n\nThere are many arguments against legalizing prostitution/sex work. In one study, women involved in sex work were interviewed and asked if they thought it should be made legal. They answered that they thought it should not, as it would put women at higher risk from violent customers if it were considered legitimate work, and they would not want their friends or family entering the sex industry to earn money. Another argument is that legalizing sex work would increase the demand for it, and women should not be treated as sexual merchandise. A study showed that in countries that have legalized prostitution, there was an increase in child prostitution. An argument against legalizing sex work is to keep children from being involved in this industry. The studies also showed that legalizing sex work lead to an increase in sex trafficking, which is another reason people give for making sex work illegal.\n\nThere are also arguments for legalizing prostitution/sex work. One major argument for legalizing prostitution is that women should have a right to do what they want with their own bodies. The government should not have a say in what they do for work, and if they want to sell their bodies it is their own decision. Another common argument for legalizing prostitution is that enforcing prostitution laws is a waste of money. This is because prostitution has always, and will continue to persist despite whatever laws and regulations are implemented against it. In arguing for the decriminalization of sex work, the Minister of Justice of the Netherlands expanded upon this argument in court when stating that, \"prostitution has existed for a long time and will continue to do so…Prohibition is not the way to proceed…One should allow for voluntary prostitution. The authorities can then regulate prostitution, [and] it can become healthy, safe, transparent, and cleansed from criminal side-effects.\" People who wish to legalize prostitution do not see enforcing laws against sex work as effective and think the money is better spent elsewhere. Many people also argue that legalization of prostitution will lead to less harm for the sex workers. They argue that the decriminalization of sex work will decrease the exploitation of sex workers by third parties such as pimps and managers. A final argument for the legalization of sex work is that prostitution laws are unconstitutional. Some argue that these laws go against people's rights to free speech, privacy, etc.\n\nRisk reduction in sex work is a highly debated topic. \"Abolitionism\" and \"nonabolitionism\" or \"empowerment\" are regarded as opposing ways in which risk reduction is approached. While abolitionism would call for an end to all sex work, empowerment would encourage the formation of networks among sex workers and enable them to prevent STIs and other health risks by communicating with each other. Both approaches aim to reduce rates of disease and other negative effects of sex work.\n\nIn addition, sex workers themselves have disputed the dichotomous nature of abolitionism and nonabolitionism, advocating instead a focus on sex workers' rights. In 1999, the Network of Sex Worker Projects claimed that \"Historically, anti-trafficking measures have been more concerned with protecting 'innocent' women from becoming prostitutes than with ensuring the human rights of those in the sex industry. Penelope Saunders, a sex workers' rights advocate, claims that the sex workers' rights approach considers more of the historical context of sex work than either abolitionism or empowerment. In addition, Jo Doezema has written that the dichotomy of the voluntary and forced approaches to sex work has served to deny sex workers agency.\n\nSex workers are unlikely to disclose their work to healthcare providers. This can be due to embarrassment, fear of disapproval, or a disbelief that sex work can have effects on their health. The criminalization of sex work in many places can also lead to a reluctance to disclose for fear of being turned in for illegal activities. There are very few legal protections for sex workers due to criminalization; thus, in many cases, a sex worker reporting violence to a healthcare provider may not be able to take legal action against their aggressor.\n\nHealth risks of sex work relate primarily to sexually transmitted infections and to drug use. In one study, nearly 40% of sex workers who visited a health center reported illegal drug use. In general, transgender women sex workers have a higher risk of contracting HIV than male and female sex workers and transgender women who are not sex workers.\n\nThe reason transgender women are at higher risk for developing HIV is their combination of risk factors. They face biological, personal, relational, and structural risks that all increase their chances of getting HIV. Biological factors include incorrect condom usage because of erectile disfunction from hormones taken to become more feminine and receptive anal intercourse without a condom which is a high risk for developing HIV. Personal factors include mental health issues that lead to increased sexual risk, such as anxiety, depression, and substance abuse provoked through lack of support, violence, etc. Structural risks include involvement in sex work being linked to poverty, substance abuse, and other factors that are more prevalent in transgender women based on their tendency to be socially marginalized and not accepted for challenging gender norms. The largest risk for HIV is unprotected sex with male partners, and studies have been emerging that show men who have sex with transgender women are more likely to use drugs than men that do not.\n\nCondom use is one way to mitigate the risk of contracting an STI. However, negotiating condom use with one's clients and partners is often an obstacle to practicing safer sex. While there is not much data on rates of violence against sex workers, many sex workers do not use condoms due to the fear of resistance and violence from clients. Some countries also have laws prohibiting condom possession; this reduces the likelihood that sex workers will use condoms. Increased organization and networking among sex workers has been shown to increase condom use by increasing access to and education about STI prevention. Brothels with strong workplace health practices, including the availability of condoms, have also increased condom use among their workers.\n\nHealth Concerns of Exotic Dancers<br>\"Mental Health and Stigma\"<br>In order to protect themselves from the stigma of sex work, many dancers resort to othering themselves. Othering involves constructing oneself as superior to one's peers, and the dancer persona provides an internal boundary that separates the \"authentic\" from the stripper self. This practice creates a lot of stress for the dancers, in turn leading many to resort to using drugs and alcohol to cope. Since it is so widespread, the use of drugs has become normalized in the exotic dance scene.<br>Despite this normalization, passing as nonusers, or covering as users of less maligned drugs, is necessary. This is because strippers concurrently attribute a strong moral constitution to those that resist the drug atmosphere; it is a testament to personal strength and will power. It is also an occasion for dancers to \"other\" fellow strippers. Valorizing resistance to the drug space discursively positions \"good\" strippers against such a drug locale and indicates why dancers are motivated to closet hard drug use.<br>Stigma causes strippers to hide their lifestyles from friends and family alienating themselves from a support system. Further, the stress of trying to hide their lifestyles from others due to fear of scrutiny affects the mental health of dancers. Stigma is a difficult area to address because it is more abstract, but it would be helpful to work toward normalizing sex work as a valid way of making a living. This normalization of sex work would relieve the stress many dancers experience increasing the likelihood that they will be open about their work. Being open will allow them access to a viable support system and reduce the othering and drug use so rampant in the sex industry.\n\nForced sex work is when an individual enters into any sex trade due to coercion rather than by choice. Forced sex work increases the likelihood that a sex worker will contract HIV/AIDS or another sexually transmitted infection, particularly when an individual enters sex work before the age of 18. In addition, even when sex workers do consent to certain sex acts, they are often forced or coerced into others (often anal intercourse) by clients. Sex workers may also experience strong resistance to condom use by their clients, which may extend into a lack of consent by the worker to any sexual act performed in the encounter; this risk is magnified when sex workers are trafficked or forced into sex work.\n\nForced sex work often involves deception - workers are told that they can make a living and are then not allowed to leave. This deception can cause ill effects on the mental health of many sex workers. In addition, an assessment of studies estimates that between 40% and 70% of sex workers face violence within a year. Currently, there is little support for migrant workers in many countries, including those who have been trafficked to a location for sex.\n\nSex worker's rights advocates argue that sex workers should have the same basic human and labor rights as other working people. For example, the Canadian Guild for Erotic Labour calls for the legalization of sex work, the elimination of state regulations that are more repressive than those imposed on other workers and businesses, the right to recognition and protection under labour and employment laws, the right to form and join professional associations or unions, and the right to legally cross borders to work. Advocates also want to see changes in legal practices involving sex work, the Red Umbrella Project has pushed for the decriminalization of condoms and changes to New York's sex workers diversion program. Advocacy for the interests of sex workers can come from a variety of sources, including non-governmental organizations, labor rights organizations, governments, or sex workers themselves. Each year in London The Sexual Freedom Awards is held to honor the most notable advocates and pioneers of sexual freedom and sex workers' rights in the UK, where sex work is essentially legal.\n\nThe unionization of sex workers is a recent development. The first organization within the contemporary sex workers' rights movement was Call Off Your Old Tired Ethics (COYOTE), founded in 1973 in San Francisco, California. Many organizations in Western countries were established in the decade after the founding of COYOTE. Currently, a small number of sex worker unions exist worldwide. One of the largest is the International Union of Sex Workers, headquartered in the United Kingdom. The IUSW advocates for the rights of all sex workers, whether they chose freely or were coerced to enter the trade, and promotes policies that benefit the interests of sex workers both in the UK and abroad. Many regions are home to sex worker unions, including Latin America, Brazil, Canada, Europe, and Africa.\n\nIn unionizing, many sex workers face issues relating to communication and to the legality of sex work. Because sex work is illegal in many places where they wish to organize, it is difficult to communicate with other sex workers in order to organize. There is also concern with the legitimacy of sex work as a career and an activity that merits formal organizing, largely because of the sexism often present in sex work and the devaluation of sex work as not comparable to other paid labor and employment.\n\nA factor affecting the unionization of sex work is that many sex workers belong to populations that historically have not had a strong representation in labor unions. While this unionization can be viewed as a way of empowering sex workers and granting them agency within their profession, it is also criticized as implicitly lending its approval to sexism and power imbalances already present in sex work. Unionization also implies a submission to or operation within the systems of capitalism, which is of concern to some feminists.\n\n\"Independent contractor vs Employee\"<br>Performers in general are problematic to categorize because they often exercise a high level of control over their work product, one characteristic of an independent contractor. Additionally, their work can be artistic in nature and often done on a freelance basis. Often, the work of performers does not possess the obvious attributes of employees such as regular working hours, places or duties. Consequently, employers misclassify them because they are unsure of their workers' status, or they purposely misclassify them to take advantage of independent contractors' low costs. Exotic dance clubs are one such employer that purposely misclassify their performers as independent contractors.<br>There are additional hurdles in terms of self-esteem and commitment to unionize. On the most basic level, dancers themselves must have the desire to unionize for collective action. For those who wish not to conform to group activity or want to remain independent, a union may seem as controlling as club management since joining a union would obligate them to pay dues and abide by decisions made through majority vote, with or without their personal approval.<br>In the \"Lusty Lady\" case study, this strip club was the first all woman managed club to successfully unionize in 1996. Some of the working conditions they were able to address included \"protest[ing] racist hiring practices, customers being allowed to videotape dancers without their consent via one-way mirrors, inconsistent disciplinary policies, lack of health benefits, and an overall dearth of job security\". Unionizing exotic dancers can certainly bring better work conditions and fair pay, but it is difficult to do at times because of their dubious employee categorization. Also, as is the case with many other unions, dancers are often reluctant to join them. This reluctance can be due to many factors, ranging from the cost of joining a union to the dancers believing they do not need union support because they will not be exotic dancers for a long enough period of time to justify joining a union.\n\nNGOs often play a large role in outreach to sex workers, particularly in HIV and STI prevention efforts. However, NGO outreach to sex workers for HIV prevention is sometimes less coordinated and organized than similar HIV prevention programs targeted at different groups (such as men who have sex with men). This lack of organization may be due to the legal status of prostitution and other sex work in the country in question; in China, many sex work and drug abuse NGOs do not formally register with the government and thus run many of their programs on a small scale and discreetly.\n\nWhile some NGOs have increased their programming to improve conditions within the context of sex work, these programs are criticized at times due to their failure to dismantle the oppressive structures of prostitution, particularly forced trafficking. Some scholars believe that advocating for rights within the institution of prostitution is not enough; rather, programs that seek to empower sex workers must empower them to leave sex work as well as improve their rights within the context of sex work.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28685", "title": "Squatting", "text": "Squatting\n\nSquatting is the action of occupying an abandoned or unoccupied area of land or a building, usually residential, that the squatter does not own, rent or otherwise have lawful permission to use.\n\nAuthor Robert Neuwirth suggested in 2004 that there were one billion squatters globally. Yet, according to Kesia Reeve, \"squatting is largely absent from policy and academic debate and is rarely conceptualised, as a problem, as a symptom, or as a social or housing movement.\"\n\nSquatting can be related to political movements, such as anarchist, autonomist, or socialist. It can be a means to conserve buildings or simply to provide affordable housing.\n\nIn many of the world's poorer countries, there are extensive slums or shanty towns, typically built on the edges of major cities and consisting almost entirely of self-constructed housing built without the landowner's permission. While these settlements may, in time, grow to become both legalised and indistinguishable from normal residential neighbourhoods, they start off as squats with minimal basic infrastructure. Thus, there is no sewerage system, drinking water must be bought from vendors or carried from a nearby tap, and if there is electricity, it is stolen from a passing cable.\n\nDuring the Great Recession and increased housing foreclosures in the late 2000s, squatting became far more prevalent in Western, developed nations.\n\nBesides being residences, some squats are used as social centres or host give-away shops, pirate radio stations or cafés. In Spanish-speaking countries, squatters receive several names, such as \"okupas\" in Spain, Chile or Argentina (from the verb \"ocupar\" meaning \"to occupy\"), or \"paracaidistas\" in Mexico (meaning \"parachuters\", because they \"parachute\" themselves at unoccupied land).\n\nDutch sociologist Hans Pruijt separates types of squatters into five distinct categories:\n\n\nIn many countries, squatting is in itself a crime; in others, it is only seen as a civil conflict between the owner and the occupants. Property law and the state have traditionally favored the property owner. However, in many cases where squatters had \"de facto\" ownership, laws have been changed to legitimize their status. Squatters often claim rights over the spaces they have squatted by virtue of occupation, rather than ownership; in this sense, squatting is similar to (and potentially a necessary condition of) adverse possession, by which a possessor of real property without title may eventually gain legal title to the real property.\n\nAnarchist Colin Ward comments: \"Squatting is the oldest mode of tenure in the world, and we are all descended from squatters. This is as true of the Queen [of the United Kingdom] with her as it is of the 54 percent of householders in Britain who are owner-occupiers. They are all the ultimate recipients of stolen land, for to regard our planet as a commodity offends every conceivable principle of natural rights.\"\n\nOthers have a different view. UK police official Sue Williams, for example, has stated that \"Squatting is linked to Anti-Social Behaviour and can cause a great deal of nuisance and distress to local residents. In some cases there may also be criminal activities involved.\"\n\nThe public attitude toward squatting varies, depending on legal aspects, socioeconomic conditions, and the type of housing occupied by squatters. In particular, while squatting of municipal buildings may be treated leniently, squatting of private property often leads to strong negative reaction on the part of the public and authorities. Squatting, when done in a positive and progressive manner, can be viewed as a way to reduce crime and vandalism to vacant properties, depending on the squatter's ability and willingness to conform to certain socioeconomic norms of the community in which they reside. Moreover, squatters can contribute to the maintenance or upgrading of sites that would otherwise be left unattended, the neglect of which would create (and has created) abandoned, dilapidated and decaying neighborhoods within certain sections of moderately to highly urbanized cities or boroughs, one such example being New York City's Lower Manhattan from roughly the 1970s to the post-9/11 era of the New Millennium.\n\nAdverse possession is a method of acquiring title to property through possession for a statutory period under certain conditions. Countries where this principle exists include England and the United States, based on common law. However, some non-common law jurisdictions have laws similar to adverse possession. For example, Louisiana has a legal doctrine called acquisitive prescription, which is derived from French law.\n\nThere are large squatter communities in Kenya, such as Kibera in Nairobi.\n\nAn estimated 1,000 people live in the Grande Hotel Beira in Mozambique.\n\nThe Zabbaleen settlement and the City of the Dead are both well-known squatter communities in Cairo.\n\nIn South Africa, squatters tend to live in informal settlements or squatter camps on the outskirts of the larger cities, often but not always near townships. In the mid-1990s, an estimated 7.7 million South Africans lived in informal settlements: a fifth of the country's population. The number has grown rapidly in the post-apartheid era. Many buildings, particularly in the inner city of Johannesburg have also been occupied by squatters. Property owners or government authorities can usually evict squatters after following certain legal procedures including requesting a court order. In Durban, the city council routinely evicts without a court order in defiance of the law, and there has been sustained conflict between the city council and a shack dwellers' movement known as Abahlali baseMjondolo. There has been a number of similar conflicts between shack dwellers, some linked with the Western Cape Anti-Eviction Campaign, and the city council in Cape Town. One of the most high-profile cases was the brutal evictions of squatters in the N2 Gateway homes in the suburb of Delft, where over 20 residents were shot, including a three-year-old child. There have been numerous complaints about the legality of the government's actions and, in particular, whether the ruling of the judge was unfair given his party affiliations and the highly politicized nature of the case. Many of the families are now squatting on Symphony Way, a main road in the township of Delft. The City of Cape Town has been threatening them with eviction since February 2008.\n\nIn Mumbai, there are an estimated 10 to 12 million inhabitants, and six million of them are squatters. The squatters live in a variety of ways. Some possess two- or three-story homes built out of brick and concrete which they have inhabited for years. Geeta Nagar is a squatter village based beside the Indian Navy compound at Colaba. Squatter Colony in Malad East has existed since 1962, and now, people living there pay a rent to the city council of 100 rupees a month. Dharavi is a community of one million squatters. The stores and factories situated there are mainly illegal and so are unregulated, but it is suggested that they do over $1 million in business every day.\n\nOther squatters live in shacks, situated literally on a pavement next to the road, with very few possessions.\n\nActivists such as Jockin Arputham are working for better living conditions for slum dwellers.\n\nMany of Malaysia's squatters live on land owned by Keretapi Tanah Melayu, most notably railway reserve land along railway tracks, as well as at construction sites.\n\nSquatting is a major issue in the Philippines especially but not exclusively in urban areas of the Philippines. Squatting gained notice right after World War II, when people whose homes were destroyed by war were left homeless. They built makeshift houses called \"barong-barong\" on abandoned private land.\n\nIn the late 20th century, the squatter population largely grew but the Philippine government has made separate attempts over the years to transfer some squatters to low-cost housing projects, such as projects in Tondo (in the former Smokey Mountain landfill), Taguig (BLISS Housing Project), and Rodriguez, Rizal.\n\nPhilippine law, and society more generally, distinguishes between squatters who squat because of poverty and \"professional squatters\" who squat in hopes of getting a payment to leave the property.\n\nPhilippine-based media and journalists refer squatters as \"informal settlers.\" \n\nThe National Property Administration, Ministry Of Finance website has an online system to report squatted lands.\n\nThough eviction has reduced their visibility or numbers in urban areas, many squatters still occupy land near railroad tracks, under overpasses, and waterways. Commercial squatting is common in Thailand, where businesses temporarily seize nearby public real estate (such as sidewalks, roadsides, beaches, etc.) and roll out their enterprise, and at closing time they fold it in and lock it up, thus avoiding the extra cost of having to rent more property.\n\nIn many European countries, there are squatted houses used as residences and also larger squatted projects where people pursue social and cultural activities. Examples of the latter include an old leper hospital outside Barcelona called Can Masdeu and a former military barracks called Metelkova in Slovenia.\n\nSquats can be run on anarchist or communist principles, for example, Fabrika Yfanet, Villa Amalia in Greece, Ernst-Kirchweger-Haus in Austria (has legal status) or Blitz in Norway (has legal status). Young people squat buildings to use as concert venues for alternative types of music such as punk and hardcore. The eviction of one such place, Ungdomshuset, in March 2007 received international news coverage. Others have been legalised.\n\nIn England and Wales, squatting in a residential building became illegal in September 2012, with a maximum penalty of six months in jail, a £5,000 fine, or both.\n\nIn Italy, there is Bussana Vecchia, a ghost town in Liguria which was abandoned in 1887 following an earthquake and subsequently squatted in the 1960s. In France, there is Collectif la vieille Valette, a self-supporting squat village which has been active since 1991.\n\nThere was a big squatting movement in the newly formed state of Austria following the First World War. Famine was a significant problem for many people in Austria and the \"Siedler\" (settler) movement developed as these people tried to create shelter and a source of food for themselves.\n\nChristiania is an independent community of almost 900 people founded in 1971 on the site of an abandoned military zone. In Copenhagen, as in other European cities such as Berlin and Amsterdam, the squatter movement was large in the 1980s. It was a social movement, providing housing and alternative culture. A flashpoint came in 1986 with the Battle of Ryesgade.\n\nAnother flashpoint came in 2007 when Ungdomshuset was evicted. While not technically a squat until 14 December 2006, it was a social centre used by squatters and people involved in alternative culture more generally. After a year of protests, the city council donated a new building.\n\nParis moved to legitimize some popular artist squats in the mid-2000s by purchasing and renovating the buildings for artist–residents.\n\nIn the 1970s, squatting in West German cities led to \"a self-confident urban counterculture with its own infrastructure of newspapers, self-managed collectives and housing cooperatives, feminist groups, and so on, which was prepared to intervene in local and broader politics\". The Autonomen movement protected squats against eviction and participated in radical direct action.\n\nAfter the German reunification, many buildings were vacated due to the demise of former state-run enterprises and migration to the western parts of Germany, some of which were then occupied by squatters. In Berlin, the now-legalised squats are in desirable areas such as Mitte and Prenzlauer Berg. Before the reunification, squats in Berlin were mostly located in former West Berlin's borough of Kreuzberg. The squats were mainly for residential and social use. Squatting became known by the term \"instandbesetzen\", from \"instandsetzen\" (\"renovating\") and \"besetzen\" (\"occupying\").\n\nSquatters moved into the former factory site of J.A. Topf & Söhne in Erfurt in April 2001 and remained there until they were evicted by police in April 2009. The firm made crematoria for Nazi concentration camps. The squatters ran culture programs which drew attention to the history of the company. The occupation was known simply as \"Das Besetzte Haus\" (the occupied house) and was one of the most well known actions of left-radicals of that period in Germany. A book about the occupation was published in 2012, titled \"Topf & Söhne - Besetzung auf einem Täterort\" (Topf & Söhne - Occupation of a crime scene).\n\nDespite being illegal, squats exist in many of the larger cities. Examples are Au in Frankfurt and Hafenstraße and Rote Flora in Hamburg, though the last open squat of Berlin, Brunnenstraße183, was evicted in November 2009.\n\nSquatting can also take place for campaigning purposes, such as the Anatopia project, which protested against a Mercedes-Benz test track.\n\nThe Free nationalists movement (Freie Nationale Strukturen) was born from the \"right-wing\" squattings of the early 1990s.\n\nStarting from December 2012, Greek Police initiated extensive raids in a number of squats, arresting and charging with offences all illegal occupants (mostly Anarchists). Notable squats like Villa Amalias and \"Patision & Skaramaga\" in Athens, Parartima, Maragopoulio and Nikolaou Gkizi 33 in Patras, Antibiosi in Ioannina, Orfanotrofio in Thessaloniki and other squats have been evicted. Greek Authorities stated their intent to raid and evict all squats.\n\nThe exact legal position of squatting in Ireland is ambiguous and the mechanisms for removing squatters from properties varies from case to case, sometimes going through the judicial process, other times not. Trespass and occupation of a property is not illegal, but as a definitive process for dealing with squatters does not exist, unlawful evictions do occur, sometimes with the support of the Garda Síochána (Irish Police). However certain 'squatters rights' do exist and can be invoked in the form of adverse possession. An occupant is entitled to legal possession of the title provided they are in continuous and uninterrupted occupation of the property for 12 years. To claim adverse possession the occupant must register an intent to claim the property with the land registry.\n\nSquatting has no major tradition in Ireland, arguably in part due to the perceived strong position of the title holder. It has largely been confined to major cities but with the construction of Ghost estates across the country there has also been a rise in occupations of residential spaces in rural areas. There have been major housing movements and periods of squatting in Ireland, including the activities of the Dublin and Derry Housing Action Committees of the late 1960s and early 1970s. Each had a militant campaign which participated in dozens or hundreds of actions and protests in demand of better housing conditions.\n\nIn 2003 activists calling themselves 'Autonomous Community Spaces' entered 'Disco Disco' in Dublin's Parnell Square to turn the space in a social centre. They were violently evicted 24 hours later. From 2003 to 2004 the Magpie Squat was a residential space which housed activists in Dublin's Upper Leeson Street. It is also where the first meeting was held for the opening of what would become Dublin's first autonomous social centre Seomra Spraoi.\n\nIn 2010 activists from Occupy Cork squatted a Nama Building in Cork city with the intention of using it as a community resource centre. It was vacated shortly after the occupation. In 2012 activists from Occupy Belfast squatted a Bank of Ireland building in Belfast city centre and used it as a social space. The occupation lasted several months before it was evicted.\n\nSquatting has seen a recent surge in Dublin city with frequent occupations of spaces. With squatting becoming more public, Dublin hosted the 2014 'International Squatter Convergence', previously held in cities such as Dijon, Berlin and Brighton. Squatting also became popularised by the successful neighbourhood resistance to an attempted eviction of a large community used squatted space in Grangegorman in Dublin city in 2015. The news of the eviction attempt and eventual successful resistance spread across social media and international news. The squatted complex enjoyed widespread support in the area and was also publicly supported by the city's Lord Mayor, Christy Burke and by Irish Times journalist Una Mullally.\n\nSince 2015 the building which once housed Neary's Hotel on Parnell St in Dublin's north inner city, was occupied and renamed The Barricade Inn by squatters.\n\nIn Italy, squatting has no legal basis, but there are many squats used as social centres. The first occupations of abandoned buildings began in 1968 with the left-wing movements Lotta Continua and Potere Operaio. Out of the breakup of these two movements was born Autonomia Operaia, which was composed of a Marxist–Leninist and Maoist wing and also an anarchist and more libertarian one. These squats had Marxist-Leninist (but also Stalinist and Maoist) ideals and came from the left wing of Autonomia. The militants of the Italian armed struggle (the New Red Brigades) were connected to these squats.\n\nSquatting in Moldova is pretty new, as it started with Centro 73 in Chişinău in September 2010. This project is working and starts to be known in media. A second project of squatting in Chişinău in the old Turkish embassy (57, Alexei Mateevici street), called Ada Kaleh, was evicted by police in November 2010.\n\nThe Dutch use the term \"krakers\" to refer to people who squat houses with the aim of living in them (as opposed to people who break into buildings for the purpose of vandalism or theft).\n\nAfter 2010, squatting still continues in many cities. There is often a \"kraakspreekuur\" (squatters' consultation hour), at which people planning to squat could get advice from experienced squatters. In Amsterdam, where the squatting community is still large, there are four \"kraakspreekuur\" sessions in different areas of the city, and so-called \"wild\" squatting (squatting a building without the help of the local group) is not encouraged.\n\nThere are still many residential squats in Dutch cities. There are also some squats in the countryside such as a squatted village called Ruigoord near Amsterdam. Fort Pannerden (a military fort built in 1869) was evicted on November 8, 2006, by a massive police operation which used military machinery and cost one million euros. The squatters then re-squatted the fort on November 26 and have since made a deal with the local council which owns the fort. The deal states that the squatters will receive a large piece of land near the fort to start a community in the rural area in between the city of Nijmegen and Arnhem. In exchange, the fort was handed over to local authorities, who will turn it into a museum, with help provided by the squatters that used to live in Fort Pannerden.\n\nIn the past, squats sometimes went through a process of legalisation. This is the case with the Poortgebouw in Rotterdam, which was squatted in 1980. In 1982, the inhabitants agreed to pay rent to the city council. The ORKZ (Oude Rooms-Katholieke Ziekenhuis) in Groningen, squatted in 1979, is an old Roman Catholic hospital, which was declared legal in the 1980s.\n\nWell-known squats include the OT301, Vrankrijk and the Binnenpret in Amsterdam, Anarres in Dordrecht (evicted in 2009), Het Slaakhuis in Rotterdam and the Landbouwbelang and Villa Vendex in Maastricht. De Blauwe Aanslag in The Hague was evicted in 2003.\n\nSquatting gained a legal basis in the Netherlands in 1971, when the Supreme Court ruled that the concept of domestic peace (\"huisvrede\") (which means a house cannot be entered without the permission of the current user) also applied to squatters. Since then, the owner of the building must take the squatters to court (or take illegal action) in order to evict them. A law was passed in 1994 which made it illegal to squat a building which was empty for less than one year.\n\nThere were several moves to ban squatting in the past. In 1978, the Council of Churches launched a protest which scotched the idea. In June 2006, two ministers from the Dutch government (Sybilla Dekker and Piet Hein Donner) proposed a plan to make squatting illegal. Other ministers, such as Alexander Pechtold, were not in favor of this plan. Representatives of the four largest Dutch cities wrote a letter stating that it would not be in their interest to ban squatting. Squatters nationwide made banners and hung them on their squats in protest.\n\nOn June 1, 2010, the squatting ban was accepted by both houses of Parliament. Squatting in the Netherlands became illegal and punishable when a decree was sent out that the law would be enforced from the first of October.\n\nThe Dutch government assessed the effectiveness of the new law in 2015, releasing a report giving statistics on arrests and convictions between October 2010 and December 2014. During this time period, 529 people have been arrested for the act of occupying derelict buildings in 213 separate incidents. Of the 529 arrests, 210 were found guilty. Of those convicted, 39 people were imprisoned for the new offence.\n\nThe oldest squat in Poland, Rozbrat, was created in 1994 in Poznań. Other squats are widespread across the country: Poznań (Magadan), (Od:Zysk), Wrocław (Era Kromera – evicted and closed, Centrum Reanimacji Kultury, Wagenburg Breslau), Warsaw (Syrena, Przychodnia), Kraków (Wielicka, Carandiru), Gdynia (Brovary Hills), Gliwice (Krzyk), Częstochowa (Elektromadonna), Białystok (DeCentrum), Grudziądz (Szach), Sosnowiec (M9), Gdańsk (NKS 3-Jan) and Ruda Śląska (Berza).\n\nSquatting of empty lots with shanty towns became popular in Spain in the 1960s and 1970s as a result of the shortage of urban accommodation during the rural exodus.\nGradually it was substituted by high-rise blocks (often built quickly and poorly).\nIt was revived in the mid-1980s during La Movida Madrileña, under the name of the \"okupa\" (an unofficial spelling applied to \"ocupación\") movement, when thousands of illegal squatted buildings were legalized. Influenced by the British Levellers, the movement's popularity rose again during the 1990s, once more due to a housing crisis, this time related to the 1992 Summer Olympics and the concomitant urban regeneration. Property speculation and house price inflation continue to catalyze \"okupa\" activism.\nRelated to the anarchist movement, \"okupas\" support the ideal of workers' self-management and create social centers, such as Patio Maravillas in Madrid, which carry out various grassroots activities. The \"okupa\" movement represents a highly politicized form of squatting, so much so that participants often claim they live in squats as a form of political protest first and foremost. The movement is involved in various other social struggles, including the alter-globalization movement. In 1996, during José María Aznar's presidency, the first specific legislation against squatting was passed and became the prelude to many squat evictions. In the barrio of Lavapiés in Madrid, the Eskalera Karakola was a feminist self-managed squat, which was active from 1996 to 2005 and participated in the nextGENDERation network. Other examples are the Escuela Popular de Prosperidad (La Prospe) o Minuesa.\n\nAs of 2007, there were approximately 200 occupied houses in Barcelona. At least 45 of these, as Infousurpa, a collective event calendar, mentions, are used as social and cultural centers – so-called \"open houses\". A number of popular rock groups have come out of this kind of venue, such as Sin Dios, Extremoduro, Kolumna Durruti, Refugio and Platero y Tú in Madrid and Ojos de Brujo and Gadjo in Barcelona. In 2014, the attempts to evict the long-running social cente of Can Vies provoked major riots.\n\nThe Basque Country is another area where a high number of houses have been occupied. There are at least 46 squats, or \"\" (\"youth's houses\" in Basque). During the 1980s, a house was occupied by squatters in virtually every town, with the booming Basque punk rock thriving on the squatting movement, as it provided the badly needed premises for concerts, exhibitions, and other events. During the last 10 years, at least 15 \"gaztetxes\" have closed down, often following protests and clashes with the police.\n\nParallelly there has been a not-ideologized current of shanty towns around big cities.\nInitially settled by sedentarized Gitanos and Mercheros, they became known after the 1980s as selling points for heroin and other drugs.\nAs the Spanish nomads were transferred to public housing, the shanty towns became inhabited by poor immigrants, including Moroccans and Romanian Romas.\nThe Cañada Real Galiana is an example.\n\nThere are squats in the Swiss cities of Bern, Geneva, Nyon, Winterthur, Lausanne, Basel, Biel/Bienne, Zürich and Lugano.\n\nThe RHINO (\"Retour des Habitants dans les Immeubles Non-Occupés\"; in English, \"Return of Inhabitants to Non-Occupied Buildings\") was a 19-year-long squat in Geneva. It occupied two buildings on the Boulevard des Philosophes, a few blocks away from the main campus of the University of Geneva. The RHINO organisation often faced legal troubles, and Geneva police evicted the inhabitants on July 23, 2007.\n\nIn Zurich there were large riots when the Binz occupation was evicted in 2013. The squatters moved to another building.\n\nIn England, squatting has a long historical tradition. The BBC states that squatting was \"a big issue in the Peasants' Revolt of 1381 and again for the Diggers in the 17th Century [who] were peasants who cultivated waste and common land, claiming it as their rightful due\" and that squatting was a necessity after the Second World War when so many were homeless. The BBC also reported in 2011 that the British government estimated that there were \"20,000 squatters in the UK\" and \"650,000 empty properties\".\n\nOn 1 September 2012, under Section 144 of the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012, squatting in residential property was criminalised by the Government, punishable by up to six months in prison or a £5000 fine, or both. The same year saw the first successful prosecution for squatting, resulting in a 12-week jail sentence. However, squatting in a commercial building is still not a criminal offence.\n\nSquatting is a criminal offence in Scotland, punishable by a fine or even imprisonment, see Trespass (Scotland) Act 1865. The owner or lawful occupier of the property has the right to evict squatters without notice or applying to the court for an eviction order, although when evicting, they cannot do anything that would break the law, for example, use violence.\n\nIn 2010, a representative of the UK Bailiff Company claimed that the number of people squatting in Wales was at its highest for 40 years. The high number of businesses failing in urban Wales has led to squatting becoming a growing issue in large cities like Swansea and Cardiff. Experts said \"the majority [of squatters] are forced into the lifestyle by financial pressures.\" Based on the internal database of UK Bailiff Company, there were 100 cases of squatting in 2009, the highest for 40 years, following trends estimated by the Advisory Service for Squatters that squatting has doubled in England and Wales since 1995.\n\nAs with England, from 1 September 2012, squatting in a residential building was made a criminal offence subject to arrest, fine and imprisonment. In December 2012 Cardiff Squatters Network was formed, to network together squatters citywide, and host \"skill-share\" workshops on squatting legally in commercial buildings.\n\nGecekondu (plural gecekondular) is a Turkish word meaning a house put up quickly without proper permissions, a squatter's house, and by extension, a shanty or shack. Gecekondu bölgesi is a neighborhood made of these informal settlements.\n\nShortly after the eviction of Gezi Park, Don Kişot (Quixote) was occupied and stated to be Istanbul's first occupied and self-managed social centre.\n\nThere are, or have been, several other political squats in İstanbul: Caferağa in Kadıköy was a squatted neighbourhood house evicted in December 2014. \"Caferağa brings life, people, and productivity into that old rotting house\" said local Turan Yildirim.\n\nIn Beşiktaş, a place was occupied on March 18, 2014 and named Berkin Elvan Student House after a 15-year-old boy who was shot during the Gezi protests and later died.\n\nAtopya was squatted in Ankara in June 2014 by anarchists, who claimed it was the city's first political squat.\n\nIn the United States, squatting laws vary from state to state and city to city. For the most part, it is rarely tolerated to any degree for long, particularly in cities. There have been a few exceptions, notably in 2002 when the New York City administration agreed to turn over eleven squatted buildings in the Lower East Side to an established non-profit group, on the condition that the apartments would later be turned over to the tenants as low-income housing cooperatives.\n\nCommunity organizations have helped the homeless to take over vacant buildings not only as a place to live but also a part of larger campaign to shine a light on inequity in housing and advocate change in housing and land issues. Some of these include the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, Take Back the Land and Homes not Jails.\n\nSquatters can be young people living in punk houses, low-income or homeless people, street gang members, or artists. During the Great Recession there were increasing numbers of people squatting foreclosed homes. There were also reports of people resquatting their own foreclosed homes.\n\nIn Canada, there are two systems to register the ownership of land. Under the land title system, squatter rights, formally known as adverse possession, were abolished. However, under the registry system, these rights have been preserved. If a person occupies land for the required period of time as set out in provincial limitation acts and, during that time, no legal action is taken to evict or in trespass, the ownership in the land goes from the legal owner to the squatter.\n\nThe Frances Street Squats in Vancouver were a row of six buildings squatted for nine months in 1990. They were evicted in a large operation and a film was subsequently made, called \"The Beat of Frances Street\".\n\nIn recent years there have been a number of public squats which have brought together the two main contemporary reasons for squatting – homelessness and activism. Examples are the Lafontaine squat in Overdale, a district of Montréal (2001), the Woodward's Squat in Vancouver (2002), the Infirmary Squat in Halifax (2002), the Pope Squat in Toronto (2002), the Seven Year Squat in Ottawa (2002), the Water Street Squat in Peterborough (2003) and the North Star hotel in Vancouver (2006). These were squats organised by anti-poverty groups which tended to have a short life expectancy.\n\nThe Woodward's building was a derelict department store which had stood empty for nine years. After being evicted from the building, two hundred squatters set up a tent city on the pavement outside. The action is credited with putting in motion the eventual redevelopment of the building.\n\nThe Peterborough Coalition Against Poverty (PCAP) publicly squatted 1130 Water Street, a building which stood empty after a fire. The group offered to repair the place and return it to its use as low-income housing. City officials agreed to the repairs and then the City Council voted to demolish the building. The cost of demolition was $8,900 and the cost of repairs had been projected to be $6,900.\n\nThe North Star hotel was temporarily squatted as a protest against emptiness by the Vancouver Anti-Poverty Committee.\n\nIn 2011, the 'Occupy Toronto squat team' squatted a basement at 238 Queen Street West and offered to take on a lease for 99 cents a year. They were evicted after eight hours.\n\nAround many South American cities there are shanty towns. Sometimes, the authorities tear the houses down, but often, the squatters simply rebuild again. The houses are built out of whatever material can be scavenged from the local area or bought cheaply. As time goes by, the squatters start to form communities and become more established. The houses are rebuilt piece by piece with more durable materials. In some cases, a deal is reached with the authorities and connections for sewage, drinking water, cable television and electricity are made.\n\nIn Peru, the name given to the squatter settlements is \"pueblos jóvenes\". In Colombia and Venezuela they are called \"invasiones\" (as in \"invading a property\", as squatting can be related to a building or an empty lot) and in Argentina they are known as \"villa miseria\".\n\nIn Chile the correct term used for the squatting is the similar term used in Spain \"Casa Okupa\". These houses share similar aspects with other squats around the world, such as being political and activist involved places, work as cultural and social centers and have their own subculture involve. They are normally associated with Anarchist Movement and they openly identify with the squatting movement, particularly the Movimiento Okupa in Spain. The mayor number of Casas Okupas are located in Valparaíso and Santiago de Chile.\nIt must not be confused with another different housing situation which term is \"Tomas\". These are particular situations of squatting that could be defined more like Shanty Towns, not necessarily involved with the Okupa movement.\n\nIn Brazil, some of the squatter communities are called favelas, and a famous example is Rocinha in Rio de Janeiro, estimated to be home of 100,000 people. Favelas are mostly inhabited by the poorest strata, and usually lack much infrastructure and public services, but in some cases, already have reached the structure needed for a city. They are equivalent to slums or shanty towns, and typically occupy unused land (instead of unused or abandoned buildings). There were 25 million people living in favelas all over Brazil, as of 2004.\n\nIn São Paulo the largest favela is Heliópolis, with over 200,000 inhabitants. However, its occupied area has been officially recognized as a regular neighborhood of the city. There are also a number of squatter buildings in the inner city, the most famous of which was a 22-story building called Prestes Maia, whose inhabitants were finally evicted by the police in 2007 after a long conflict with the city administration. Inspired by this movement and increasing property speculation and gentrification have also emerged various occupations in buildings and unoccupied areas in big cities. (see Homeless Workers' Movement)\n\nThere are also rural squatter movements in Brazil, such as the Landless Workers' Movement, which has an estimated 1.5 million members.\n\nIn the 19th century, a squatter was a person who occupied a large tract of Crown land in order to graze livestock – the phenomenon is referred to in the song Waltzing Matilda. At first, this was done illegally, and later under license. From the 1820s they were part of the establishment, hence the term \"Squattocracy\". Maps of pastoral lands were also known as squatting maps. This type of squatting is covered in greater detail at Squatting (pastoral).\n\nIn more recent times, there have been squats in the major cities. It would be possible for squatters to be charged with criminal trespass under the Enclosed Lands Protection Act, but mainly, squatters are simply evicted when they are discovered. As in the United Kingdom, there is the law of adverse possession, but it is seldom used.\n\nIn Sydney, streets of terraced houses in areas such as the Rocks and Potts Point were squatted to prevent their demolition in the 1970s. The Glebe estate in Glebe, New South Wales was squatted in the 1960s and 1970s, and had an extensive influx of squatters in the 1980s. Also during the 1970s and 1980s, extensive parts of Woolloomooloo and Darlinghurst were also squatted, along corridors of houses bought to make way for new road works. Examples of these include \"The Compound\" in Darlinghurst and along Palmer Street in Woolloomooloo. Punks, political activists, musicians and artists also started squatting in \"The Gunnery\", a former Navy warehouse and training facility, in Woolloomooloo, during the early-to-mid-1980s. This squat, a large warehouse with several unusual spaces able to be used as theatres or other venues (thanks to its former use by the Navy) became a critical site for the development of arts and music in Sydney in the mid to late 1980s, with independent musical and art events being held there regularly. It is now an arts centre.\n\nThe artists squatting empty buildings on Broadway owned by South Sydney City Council were evicted in 2001, a few months after the 2000 Olympics.\n\nThe Midnight Star was a squatted theatre used as a social centre, hosting music events, a cafe, a library, a free internet space and a Food Not Bombs kitchen. It was evicted in December 2002 following its use as a convergence centre for protests against the November World Trade Organization talks.\n\nIn 2003, a legal squat was organised for ten people who moved onto the site of an old incinerator at Green Square.\n\nA five-year-old squat was peacefully evicted in March 2008, when an office block in Balmain was demolished to make way for a park. The council voted to allow the squatters to stay in the building, which they called Iceland, until the plans for demolition were in place. One of the squatters said, \"About 20 people have lived here over the years and it's been a place for band rehearsals, art projects, people practising dance routines, bike workshops. Squatting gives you a chance to think about things other than how you are going to pay the rent and ways to contribute to the world.\"\n\nThe Squatfest film festival began in the Broadway squats in 2001. It is both a celebration of squatting and a protest against the corporate capitalism of the Tropfest film festival in Sydney. Every year, a site is occupied and films screened. The location is announced hours before screening begins.\n\nThere were estimated to be more than 120,000 unoccupied houses in Sydney in 2011.\n\nMelbourne squats are usually located in the inner suburbs, like Footscray, St. Kilda and Coburg. They tend to be houses that are waiting for demolition. A well-known squat in Carlton was organised by international students in 2008. A Squatter's Handbook was produced by activists in 1993, 2001 and 2010.\n\nIn Europe, it is common for buildings to be squatted to be used as social centres. Cafés, bars, libraries, free shops, swaps shops and gyms have all been created, with many squats also holding parties and concerts. Social centers are often a combination of many things that happen in one space with the aim of creating a space for people to meet in a non-commercial setting, whether it be for a party, political workshop, to see a film, have a drink or have breakfast. There are many squatted social centers around the world, but they exist mainly in countries where squatting is legal. Examples include Ernst-Kirchweger-Haus in Austria, the RampART Social Centre in England, OT301 in the Netherlands and Ungdomshuset in Denmark (evicted on March 1, 2007, and demolished four days later).\"\n\nUrban homesteading is a form of self-help housing where abandoned private properties in urban areas are taken over by the building's usually poor residents.\n\nSometimes this takes the form of squatting, which is not legal under many jurisdictions. Urban homesteading – in which residents rehabilitate the apartments through their own labor – may depart from squatting in some ways, especially philosophically.\n\nWhile both groups may work initially with no permits, architectural plans or help from the government, self-help housing aims to manage the buildings cooperatively, and residents may work collaboratively with a non-profit organization or city government to legally obtain ownership of the building.\n\nIn some cases, urban homesteading is an organic phenomenon that evolves as a grassroots strategy of residents for dealing with a lack of affordable housing, or a sizable existence of abandoned, depressed, neglected or foreclosed housing stock. Some cities have used it as a solution to creating affordable housing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4066768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4066768", "title": "Tikar people", "text": "Tikar people\n\nThe Tikar is a blanket term used for several ethnic groups in Cameroon. It has been used widely for different peoples and their culture.\n\nThere is a single ethnic group called the Tikar who live in on the Tikar Plain in Adamawa Region. They speak a Bantoid language called Tikar. Their population is approximately 25,000. The Bedzan pygmies (who also live on the Tikar Plain) share their language. The main Tikar towns are Bankim, Ngambe Tikar, and Magba.\n\nThe Tikar have elements of matrilineal and patrilineal descent. Their folk belief states that during pregnancy the blood that the woman would normally release during menstruation forms parts of the fetus. This blood is said to form the skin, blood, flesh and most of the organs. The bones, brain, heart and teeth are believed to be formed from the father's sperm. In the case of a son, the masculinity also comes from this. The Tikar are also noted as mask-makers.\n\nQuite different from these Tikar are many groups in the northwestern part of the country, in the Northwest Region near the Nigerian border whose royal families trace links to the Tikar royal family. Examples are the Nso' and the Wimbum from the North West as well as the Bamoun (from West Region) whose languages are different from Tikar. Although it is common to see statements such as the \"Nso' are Tikar\" or the Wimbum came from Tikari, that really should not be taken to be a statement about the culture, languages etc. of most of the people of that ethnicity.\n\nOn the 2006 PBS television program \"African American Lives\", the musician Quincy Jones had his DNA tested; the test showed him to be of Tikar descent. In the PBS television program \"Finding Your Roots\", former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice learned she shared maternal heritage with the Tikar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36302402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36302402", "title": "Ukrainians in Germany", "text": "Ukrainians in Germany\n\nThe Ukrainian community of Germany is small yet sizable at around 250,000; Germany's Ukrainians have created a number of institutions and organizations, such as the Central Association of Ukrainians in Germany and Association of Ukrainian Diaspora in Germany. Although most of Germany's Ukrainians are German citizens, a large number of them are Ukrainian students from Russia and Ukraine in Germany on an academic scholarship. The majority of the Ukrainian population lives in the former DDR\n\nIn 1999, a conflict arose involving the German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer, who eased conditions for citizens of the former Soviet states to get German visas. Many people opposed to this claim that it enabled thousands to enter Germany illegally using abuse of visas granted to them. The majority of Ukrainians that are in Germany on scholarship are there on such visas, adding to the controversy.\n\nSome Ukrainian organizations in Germany have accused Germans of racism and prejudice, and of the belief that Ukrainians are only in Germany to work illegally<ref name=\"www.dw.de|/\"\"></ref> (despite the large number of ethnic Ukrainians who are second- or third-generation German citizens).\n"}
{"id": "50669096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50669096", "title": "Union violence in the United States", "text": "Union violence in the United States\n\nOn various occasions violence has been committed by unions or union members during labor disputes in the United States. When union violence has occurred, it has frequently been in the context of industrial unrest. Violence has ranged from isolated acts by individuals to wider campaigns of organised violence aimed at furthering union goals within an industrial dispute.\n\nAnti-union violence has also occurred frequently in the context of industrial unrest, and has often involved the collusion of management and government authorities, private agencies, or citizens' groups in organising violence against unions and their members.\n\nAccording to a study in 1969, the United States has had the bloodiest and most violent labor history of any industrial nation in the world, and there have been few industries which have been immune. Researchers in industrial relations, criminology, and wider cultural studies have examined violence by workers or trade unions in the context of industrial disputes. The US government has examined violence during industrial disputes.\n\nAccording to a 1969 study, no major labor organization in American history has ever openly advocated violence as a policy, although some, in the early part of the 20th century, systematically used violence, most notably the Western Federation of Miners, and the International Association of Bridge Structural Iron Workers. However, violence does occur in the context of industrial disputes. When violence has been committed by, or in the name of, the union, it has tended to be narrowly focused upon targets which are associated with the employer. Violence was greater in conflicts in which there was a question of whether union recognition would be extended.\n\nBoth employers and workers have each been the aggressor and victim at different times. The \"most virulent\" violence in United States industrial disputes occurred when management tried to destroy a union or deny recognition to a union.\n\nUnion violence most typically occurs in specific situations, and has more frequently been aimed at preventing replacement workers from taking jobs during a strike, than at managers or employers.\n\nProtest and verbal abuse are routinely aimed against union members or replacement workers who cross picket lines (\"blacklegs\") during industrial disputes. The inherent aim of a union is to create a labor monopoly so as to balance the monopsony a large employer enjoys as a purchaser of labor. Strikebreakers threaten that goal and undermine the union's bargaining position, and occasionally this erupts into violent confrontation, with violence committed either by, or against, strikers. Some who have sought to explain such violence observe, if labor disputes are accompanied by violence, it may be because labor has no legal redress. In 1894, some workers declared:\n\n...\"the right of employers to manage their own business to suit themselves,\" is fast coming to mean in effect nothing less than a right to manage the country to suit themselves.\n\nA 1969 study of labor conflict violence in the United States examined the era following the 1947 passage of the Taft-Hartley Act, and concluded that violence had substantially abated. In the 16 years from 1947 through 1962, 29 people died in labor conflicts, a rate much lower than in previous eras. The study noted that attacks on strikers by company guards had all but disappeared. They estimated from NLRB records that 80 to 100 acts of violence by union members or supporters occurred each year, most of the attacks on people being unplanned fights with strikebreakers crossing picket lines. In the 1960s, the most common complaint of union violence was of sabotage during labor disputes. Numerous incidents included dynamite explosions, but targeting property, and without any dynamite-related injuries.\n\nThe great railroad strike of 1877 saw considerable violence by, and against, workers, and occurred before unions were widespread. It started on July 14 in Martinsburg, West Virginia, in response to the cutting of wages for the second time in a year by the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad (B&O). Striking workers would not allow any of the stock to roll until this second wage cut was revoked. The governor sent in state militia units to restore train service, but the soldiers refused to use force against the strikers and the governor called for federal troops.\n\nViolent street battles occurred in Maryland between the striking workers and the Maryland militia. When the outnumbered troops of the 6th Regiment fired on an attacking crowd, they killed 10 and wounded 25. The rioters injured several members of the militia, damaged engines and train cars, and burned portions of the train station. On July 21–22, the President sent federal troops and Marines to Baltimore to restore order.\n\nIn Pittsburgh, strikers threw rocks at militiamen, who bayoneted their antagonists, killing twenty people and wounding twenty-nine others.\nIn Reading, Pennsylvania, workers conducted mass marches, blocked rail traffic, committed trainyard arson, and burned a bridge. The state militia shot sixteen citizens in the Reading Railroad Massacre. The militia responsible for the shootings was mobilized by Reading Railroad management, not by local public officials.\n\nChicago was paralyzed when angry mobs of unemployed citizens wreaked havoc in the rail yards. The strike was eventually suppressed by thousands of vigilantes, National Guard, and federal troops.\n\nIn 1886 the Haymarket affair (also known as the Haymarket massacre or Haymarket riot) was a protest rally and subsequent violence on May 4 at the Haymarket Square in Chicago. The rally supported striking workers. When police began to disperse the public meeting, an unknown person threw a dynamite bomb into their midst. The bomb blast and ensuing gunfire resulted in the deaths of eight police officers, mostly from friendly fire, and an unknown number of civilians. In the internationally publicized legal proceedings that followed, eight anarchists were tried for murder. Four men were convicted and executed, and one committed suicide in prison, although the prosecution conceded none of the defendants had thrown the bomb.\n\nThe Haymarket affair is generally considered significant for the origin of international May Day observances for workers. The causes of the Haymarket Affair are still controversial, but can be traced in part to an incident the previous day, in which police fired into a crowd of agitated workers during shift change at the McCormick Works, where the regular work force was on strike, and at least two workers were killed. In popular literature, the Haymarket Affair inspired the caricature of \"a bomb-throwing anarchist.\"\n\nIllinois Governor John Peter Altgeld later pardoned the three living survivors of the Haymarket prosecution, concluding (as have subsequent scholars) that there had been a serious miscarriage of justice in their prosecutions.\n\nDuring the 1888 strike against the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad, workers were arrested for wrecking a train. When one of those arrested turned out to be a detective, organized labor complained that the detective had incited the others.\n\n\"In the 1890s violent outbreaks occurred in the North, South, and West, in small communities and metropolitan cities, testifying to the common attitudes of Americans in every part of the United States.\" Workers with different ethnic origins who worked under very different conditions in widely separated parts of the United States nonetheless responded with equal ferocity when unions came under attack. \"Serious violence erupted in several major strikes of the 1890s, the question of union recognition being a factor in all of them.\"\n\n1892 in particular was a year of considerable labor unrest. Governors of five states called out the national guard and/or the army to quell unrest—against miners in East Tennessee and in Coeur D'Alene, Idaho, where a shooting war followed the discovery of a labor spy, against switchmen in Buffalo, New York, against a general strike in New Orleans, Louisiana, and against the Homestead, Pennsylvania steel strike.\n\nThe strike of 1892 in Coeur d'Alene, Idaho erupted in violence when a union miner was killed by mine guards, and was further inflamed when union miners discovered they had been infiltrated by a Pinkerton agent who had routinely provided union information to the mine owners.\n\nOn Sunday night, July 10, armed union miners gathered on the hills above the Frisco mine. More union miners were arriving from surrounding communities. At five in the morning, shots rang out, and the firing became continuous. Both sides blamed the other for starting the shooting. The union miners, exposed on the logged-off hillside, hadn't positioned themselves for a gunfight, while mine guards were able to shelter in buildings. The union men circled above the mill, and got into a position where they could send a box of black powder down the flume into one of the mine buildings. The building exploded, killing one company man and injuring several others. The union miners fired into a remaining structure where the guards had taken shelter. A second company man was killed, and sixty or so guards surrendered. Union men marched their prisoners to the union hall.\n\nThe violence caused the governor to declare Martial Law, and bring in six companies of the Idaho National Guard to \"suppress insurrection and violence.\" Federal troops also arrived, and they confined six hundred miners in bullpens without any hearings or formal charges. Some were later \"sent up\" for violating injunctions, others for obstructing the United States mail.\n\nOne of the most notorious incidents of violence against management occurred in 1892 during the Homestead Strike—one of the most violent industrial disputes in American history—when Alexander Berkman attempted to assassinate Henry Clay Frick, chairman of the Carnegie Steel Company and manager of the mill where the strike occurred. Frick had locked out the workers, and later hired three hundred armed guards from the Pinkerton Detective Agency to break the union's picket lines, resulting in gunfire and flaming barges on the Ohio River. There was a consensus of all parties that the presence of the Pinkertons inflamed the attitudes of the strikers. The strikers defeated the Pinkertons, but could not keep the mills from operating after the National Guard was deployed.\n\nBerkman, an avowed anarchist, had no connection to the union involved in the strike, but believed he was acting in the workers' interests. He was motivated by newspaper reports of,\n\n...Henry Clay Frick, whose attitude toward labor is implacably hostile; his secret military preparations while designedly prolonging the peace negotiations with the Amalgamated; the fortification of the Homestead steel-works; the erection of a high board fence, capped by barbed wire and provided with loopholes for sharpshooters; the hiring of an army of Pinkerton thugs; the attempt to smuggle them, in the dead of night, into Homestead; and, finally, the terrible carnage.\n\nBerkman's attack, called an attentat by the anarchists, injured but failed to kill Frick. Having anticipated that his act would launch a worker uprising, Berkman was surprised when a carpenter hit him with a hammer after he had been restrained. The attempted murder alienated the anarchist community from much of the labor movement, as well as dividing the anarchist community itself. Frick had been widely hated, but in at least one analysis, becoming the victim of such an attack transformed him into a \"folk hero\" in the public view.\n\nDuring the Homestead strike, Carnegie Steel Company employees in Duquesne joined the strike that was occurring across the river. A riot broke out, and a number of the workers were arrested. It turned out that two of the strikers were Pinkerton detectives, and convictions were secured.\n\nIn 1897, the Pana Coal Company attempted to import African-American strikebreakers. A train car was intercepted by armed striking miners, and the strikebreakers were sent home unharmed.\n\nThe following year, however, another company, the Chicago-Virden Coal Company, attempted a similar strike-breaking effort, this time with an armed escort on the train car. The result was called the Battle of Virden. Guards fired their rifles as they disembarked from the train. In the ensuing gun battle, fourteen men, including eight strikers, were killed. Governor Tanner criticized the company, and called up the National Guard, who were able to restore order. The National Guard prevented a similar incident by turning away additional strikebreakers the day after the riot.\n\nIn April 1899, as the Western Federation of Miners (WFM) was launching an organizing drive of the few locations not yet unionized, superintendent Albert Burch declared that the company would rather \"shut down and remain closed twenty years\" than to recognize the union. He then fired seventeen workers that he believed to be union members and demanded that all other union men collect their back pay and quit.\n\nOn April 29, 250 angry union members belonging to the WFM seized a train in Burke. At each stop through Burke-Canyon, more miners climbed aboard. At Frisco, the train stopped to load eighty wooden boxes, each containing fifty pounds of dynamite. Nearly a thousand men rode the train to Wardner, the site of a $250,000 mill of the Bunker Hill mine. After carrying three thousand pounds of dynamite into the mill, they set their charges and scattered. Two men were killed, one of them a non-union miner, the other a union man accidentally shot by other miners. Their mission accomplished, the miners once again boarded the \"Dynamite Express\" and left the scene.\n\nFrom Kellog to Wallace, ranchers and laboring people lined the tracks and, according to one eyewitness, \"cheered the [union] men lustily as they passed.\"\nOnce again, miners were rounded up and herded into bullpens and held there for months.\n\nDuring the Western Federation of Miners strike of 1903-04, there was considerable violence, including an explosion at the Vindicator mine which killed two, and an explosion at the Independence Depot which killed thirteen. The Cripple Creek Mining District was under occupation by the Colorado National Guard, the Citizens' Alliance was active in the district, and historians continue to debate who was responsible for each incident of violence. One likely perpetrator was convicted assassin Harry Orchard. A major in the National Guard later testified that the militia was responsible for orchestrated beatings of striking miners.\n\nPerhaps the most significant example of a campaign of union violence, the International Association of Bridge Structural Iron Workers employed dynamite attacks and assault from 1906 to 1911 over employers' demands for an open shop. After an initial peace offer, employers refused to talk to the union, and the union leadership adopted violent tactics as a direct response. Approximately one hundred structures were damaged or destroyed by dynamite, and about a hundred non-union workers were assaulted. In the Chicago area alone, there were 12 dynamite attacks on non-union construction sites from 1906 to 1911, six of them taking place in 1910. The attacks on construction sites were aimed at property, not people. Nationwide, nearly 100 dynamite bombs had exploded at non-union iron workers construction sites from 1906 to 1911.\n\nThe most powerful foe of labor unions in Los Angeles was Harrison Gray Otis, publisher of the Los Angeles Times. On 1 October 1910, a dynamite bomb exploded at the Los Angeles Times building. The explosion and subsequent fire killed 21 Times workers, and injured 100 more. Ortie McManigal, one of the Iron Workers Union members who participated in the bombing, confessed.\n\nThe next day, a mysterious suitcase was found outside the home of Times publisher Otis; police moved the suitcase away from the building. When they opened it, they heard ticking, and ran. They were 60 feet away when the dynamite went off, creating a crater and rattling windows, but without injuring anyone. Another dynamite bomb was discovered and disarmed at the Los Angeles home of the president of the anti-union Merchants and Manufacturers Association.\n\nThe southern California crew of Ortie McManigal and James B. Macnamara were still not through, and set off eight more explosions, including a Christmas Day 1910 explosion at the Llewellyn Iron Works in Los Angeles.\n\nPolice found bomb-making equipment, including dynamite, at the Ironworkers Union office in San Francisco, and at the union headquarters in Indianapolis. Ortie McManigal confessed and testified against the others. James B. Macnamara pled guilty to placing the Los Angeles Times bomb, and his brother John J. Macnamara, secretary-treasurer of the union, pled guilty to planning the bombing of the Llewellyn Iron Works. In all, 40 members of the Iron Workers Union were convicted in the dynamite campaign, including union president Frank Ryan.\n\nAs of 2016, the Ironworkers Union website on the history of the union commented:\n\nMcNamara, Ryan, Clancy, Butler, Morrin and the others may have done what they thought they had to do to preserve the International Association. And despite other consequences of the dynamite campaign, they did save the Union. The International Officers stretched the limits of zeal in a righteous cause. Their strategy and tactics suffered - not the cause or validity of unionism.\n\nTwo years of conflict between miners and mine owners, characterized by utilization of the Baldwin–Felts Detective Agency for infiltrating, sabotaging and attacking the United Mine Workers union, culminated in the Battle of Blair Mountain in 1921. The largest armed insurrection since the American Civil War was touched off by the murders of Sid Hatfield and Ed Chambers on the courthouse steps of Welch, West Virginia. The Battle of Blair Mountain was a spontaneous uprising of ten thousand coal miners from throughout West Virginia who fought the coal company's hired guns and their allies, the state police for three days before federal troops intervened.\n\nWilliamson County, Illinois, a county with a \"unique history of violence\" for a rural county, was the location of the Herrin Massacre, one of the most horrific and perplexing incidents of union violence. The 1922 incident is considered the most notorious of the United Mine Workers' struggles in Illinois. The massacre was committed by members (and possibly at the instruction of local leadership) of the United Mine Workers. Three union men died in the exchange of gunfire during an afternoon-long armed siege of a non-union mine. The next day, the non-union miners surrendered and were disarmed in exchange for safe passage out of the county. However, union miners killed 20 men of the 50 strikebreakers and mine guards who surrendered. The ruthless retaliation occurred against the backdrop of broken promises, double dealing, and missed opportunities on both sides.\n\nFalse flag operations are efforts to turn public opinion against an adversary, while pretending to be in the camp of that adversary. Historian J. Bernard Hogg observed of such operations as practiced in 1888:\n\nA detective will join the ranks of the strikers and at once become an ardent champion of their cause. He is next found committing an aggravated assault upon some man or woman who has remained at work, thereby bringing down upon the heads of the officers and members of the assembly or union directly interested, the condemnation of all honest people, and aiding very materially to demoralize the organization and break their ranks.\n\nSome labor spy agencies advertised their false flag operations; for example, Corporations Auxiliary Company, a labor spy agency which boasted 499 corporate clients in the early 1930s, told prospective clients,\n\nIn [the event other methods of sabotaging the union fail, our operative in the union] turns extremely radical. He asks for unreasonable things and keeps the union embroiled in trouble. If a strike comes, he will be the loudest man in the bunch, and will counsel violence and get somebody in trouble. The result will be that the union will be broken up.\n\nDeputy Prosecutor in Indiana's Johnson County, Carlos Lam, suggested in an email that Wisconsin's Governor Walker mount a \"false flag\" operation to make it appear that the union was committing violence in the 2011 Wisconsin protests. After initially claiming that his email account was hacked, Lam admitted to sending the suggestion and resigned. Governor Walker's office disclaimed support for the proposal.\n\nDuring the Colorado Labor Wars, the Colorado National Guard had been called into the Cripple Creek Mining District to put down a strike, and Colorado National Guard leadership became concerned that the Mine Owners Association had not lived up to their agreement to cover the payroll of the soldiers. In February 1904, General Reardon ordered Major Ellison to shoot up one of the mines. When such violence occurred, the blame would be placed upon the union. In the dark of night, Major Ellison and Sergeant Gordon Walter fired sixty shots from their revolvers into the Vindicator and Lillie shaft house. The plan worked, and the mine owners paid up.\n\nDuring the same strike, detectives were accused of attempting to frame union leaders for a plot to derail a train. A jury of non-union ranchers and timbermen unanimously acquitted three accused union men, and some testimony during the trial pointed at a plot by the detectives.\n\nFrameups in labor disputes sometimes swung public opinion against the perpetrators. During a 1912 strike in Lawrence, Massachusetts, police acting on a tip discovered dynamite and blamed it on the union. National media echoed an anti-union message. Later the police revealed that the dynamite had been wrapped in a magazine addressed to the son of the former mayor. The man had received an unexplained payment from the largest of the employers. Exposed, the plot swung public sympathy to the union.\n\nThe United Farm Workers 1979 strike against Imperial Valley lettuce growers was organized by Cesar Chavez to dispute wages for produce workers. Despite his outspoken calls for peaceful protests and the UFW's policy of non-violence, several instances of widespread violence and damage occurred during the strike. \"UFW pickets engaged in rock-throwing, blocking access to and from grower facilities or fields, rushing into fields towards replacement workers, throwing nail-type devices on the ground to cause flat tires in grower vehicles, overturning grower vehicles, carrying or using sticks, clubs, sling shots or other weapons...There was evidence that the picket captains urged strikers to throw rocks and to vandalize grower equipment. There was evidence that King and the picket captains made threats to kill the replacement workers. There was evidence that the UFW could discipline picketers who violated strike rules by pulling them off the picket line and having them work elsewhere yet the evidence tended to show the UFW rarely disciplined picketers...There was testimony picket captains encouraged strikers to throw rocks and vandalize grower equipment. In particular, there was evidence of a \"Fantasma\" or \"Phantom Crew\" organized by the strikers to intimidate growers and replacement workers. This phantom crew was composed of five or six \"real strong young men\" who would use a black van at night to attack replacement workers and to vandalize irrigation equipment, vehicles and homes belonging to growers and replacement workers.\n\nIn the following years, a judge would later find the actions of the UFW were \"acts of unlawful picketing\" and held them financially liable for damages to the growers.\n\nThe United Mine Workers Union 1985 strike against Massey Energy included attacks on company vehicles with rifle fire. Trucks hauling coal from the mines were fired upon with rifles a number of times, and three drivers had previously been wounded by the rifle fire before June 1985, when another truck convoy was hit by rifle fire, killing driver Hayes West when his truck was hit by at least 21 rifle rounds, and the driver of another truck was wounded.\n\nState and local law enforcement did not charge anyone in the death of Hayes West. Five members of the United Mine Workers Union, including Donnie Thornsbury, president of UMW Local 2496, were indicted by a federal grand jury, arrested, and charged with conspiracy to damage and disable motor vehicles used in interstate commerce. After a trial in federal court, four out of the five were convicted, including union official Thornsbury, and their convictions were upheld on appeal.\n\nDuring protests by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 1547 against a non-unionized workforce getting a contract, picketers threatened and assaulted workers, spat at them, sabotaged equipment, and shot guns near workers. In 1999, the Alaska Supreme Court ruled that the union had engaged in \"ongoing acts of intimidation, violence, destruction of property\", awarding the plaintiff $212,500 in punitive damages.\n\nThree union workers set fire to the Hotel Dupont Plaza in San Juan, Puerto Rico, while other union members staged a fight as a distraction. The union, said to be affiliated with the Teamsters, was having a labor dispute with management over pay and health care. Ninety-seven people were killed, none of whom were union members. Most bodies were burned beyond recognition.\n\nThe 1989 strike by the United Mine Workers of America (UMWA) against the Pittston Coal Company's mines in Virginia and West Virginia was marked by shots fired at strikebreakers. In July 1989, a car bomb exploded in the parking lot of Pittston headquarters at Lebanon, Virginia.\n\nOn the first day of The \"New York Daily News\" strike, delivery trucks were attacked with stones and sticks, and in some cases burned, with the drivers beaten. Strikers then started threatening newsstands with arson, or stole all copies of the Daily News and burned them in front of the newsstands. James Hoge, publisher of the \"Daily News\", alleged that there had been some 700 serious acts of violence. The New York Police Department claimed knowledge of 229 incidents of violence. Criminal charges under the Hobbs Act were declined, however, citing the aforementioned \"Enmons\" case.\n\nEight members of the striking United Mine Workers Union were arrested after Eddie York was shot and killed in Logan County, West Virginia, as he drove away from the coal mine, through the picket line. York, an employee of an environmental contractor, was at the mine to perform government-mandated maintenance of sedimentation ponds, work unrelated to the labor dispute. In the same incident, a truck driven by a mine guard was struck by rocks thrown by strikers on the picket line, which smashed the windshield. Howard Green, a member of the UMW executive board, accused Arch Corporation mine guards of murdering York, to give bad publicity to the union.\n\nState and local law enforcement did not charge anyone in York's death. The FBI and Justice Department, citing the \"Enmons\" case, decided they could not prosecute under the Hobbs Act. The federal government charged eight of the picketers for interfering with interstate transportation. Seven of the union members, including the president of the local, accepted plea deals in connection with the rock-throwing. The eighth, Jerry Dale Lowe, was charged with firing the fatal shot, and was tried in federal court for illegal use of a firearm to incapacitate a driver involved in interstate commerce (the federal government could not charge him with murder, because murder is not a federal crime). In 1994, a federal jury convicted Jerry Dale Lowe of killing Eddie York, and he was sentenced to 11 years in prison. Although all eight of those charged had violated various UMWA picket-line rules against drinking, masking their faces, rock-throwing, and having guns at the picket line, none were subject to any UMWA discipline. On the contrary, the union successfully fought to get the seven who pled guilty their old jobs back after the strike.\n\nIn Miami, during a 1997 Teamsters Union strike against UPS, a group of men pulled UPS truck driver Rod Carter out of his truck, beat him, and stabbed him six times with an ice pick. Carter had earlier received a threatening phone call from the home of Anthony Cannestro, Sr., president of Teamsters Local 769. Carter sued Teamsters local 769, charging that union officials had encouraged violent behavior by its members. The Teamsters Union settled with Carter by paying an undisclosed sum.\n\nFor years, officials of Laborers Local 91, in Niagara, New York, directed a strongarm squad of union members to make death threats and to commit criminal acts against nonunion construction workers and work sites. In 1997, the union fire-bombed a residence used by non-union workers in Niagara Falls, New York, causing permanent injury to one of the inhabitants. In 1998, union members attacked four tile-layers at a supermarket construction site, beating them so badly that they were all hospitalized, one so badly that he had not returned to work four years later.\n\nState and local law enforcement did not charge anyone in the beatings. After a four-year federal investigation, the FBI arrested 14 union members for the violence, including the local's vice president, business manager, assistant business manager, and a former president. Andrew Shomers confessed to the fire-bombing, and also to the beatings at the supermarket site. Another union member, confessed to driving the getaway car in the fire bombing.\nAnthony Cerrone, a member of local 91, confessed to involvement in the supermarket attack and the fire-bombing.\nIt was reported on September 9, 2011 that members of the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU) frightened security guards, dumped grain, and vandalized property belonging to EGT, LLC, over a labor dispute. No one was hurt, and no one had been arrested at the time the incident was reported. District Judge Ronald Leighton later issued a preliminary injunction against the ILWU citing their reported behavior.\n\nUnion workers protesting right-to-work legislation in Lansing, Michigan destroyed a tent run by Americans for Prosperity. People were inside the tent but managed to escape before the collapse. Additionally, hot dog stand operator Clinton Tarver, a popular vendor around the Capital area who was hired to provide catering for AFP, lost his equipment, condiments, coolers, and food in the collapse. According to Tarver (an African American), union workers, who had incorrectly assumed he was supporting AFP, called Tarver an \"Uncle Tom nigger\". A union worker also punched conservative comedian and Fox News contributor Steven Crowder, resulting in a chipped tooth and a minor cut on the forehead. Another worker threatened to kill Crowder with a gun.\n\nAlthough the violence, property destruction and arson had been going on for years, it intensified after the economic downturn of 2008-2009, as construction work became scarcer. In 2012, Ironworkers union members caused $500,000 in damage to the non-union construction site of a Quaker meetinghouse in Chestnut Hill. In another incident, Ironworkers beat nonunion workers outside a Toys-R-Us store with baseball bats. Some of the violence was directed at union construction sites staffed by other craft unions, such as the Carpenters Union, in an attempt to get the work for the Ironworkers.\n\nAfter an FBI investigation, federal prosecuters filed racketeering and arson charges against ten officers and members of Ironworkers Local 401.\n\nIn 2015, the Pennsylvania Convention Center Authority sued the Carpenters Union local in Philadelphia for racketeering, under the federal RICO statute. The Authority charged that the union had engaged in a pattern of \"illegal and disruptive mass picketing and protests; physical intimidation, harassment, stalking, and assault and battery; verbal intimidation, harassment, race-baiting, and threats; and the destruction of property.\" The Carpenters Union denied the charges.\nSometimes, unions are accused of violence or threats of violence by other unions.\n\nIn June 1940, a bus driver member of the Amalgamated Association of Street Railway & Motor Coach Employees, which was not on strike, was killed at the hands of members of the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen, which claimed to represent the bus drivers. The Railroad Trainmen blamed the bus driver, calling him a strikebreaker. The Street Railway & Motor Coach Employees union later won an NLRB representation election, defeating the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen. p. 364\n\nIn 1932, some southern Illinois coal miners dissatisfied with the concessions made by the United Mine Workers Union, and what they regarded as the autocratic ways of its leader, John L. Lewis, broke away and formed the Progressive Miners of America (PMA), later renamed the Progressive Mine Workers of America. The rival unions clashed violently from the start, resulting in numerous deaths on both sides, as well as police officers killed trying to prevent the violence.\n\nThe violence was especially intense in southern Illinois in 1932 and 1933, when PMA picketers tried to stop UMWA members from entering the mines. Officers and members of both unions were shot on the street and bombed in their homes. In addition, PMA members set off bombs to stop rail shipments of UMWA-mined coal, trying to force the companies to recognize the PMA. In 1937 the federal government charged 36 PMA members and officers with racketeering, in connection with 44 dynamite explosions at mines and rail facilities. The PMA maintained that the charges resulted from collusion between the FBI, UMWA, and Peabody Coal, and that their methods were no different from those of the UMWA. All 36 were convicted. Although the prison sentences were no more than 16 months, the fines and legal expenses had drained the PMA treasury, and the verdicts labelled the PMA as an outlaw organization.\n\nThe Progressive Mine Workers union survived, and PMWA-UMWA violence flared up occasionally over the years, as one union would strike while the other continued to work, and they both claimed to represent miners at various coal mines. In 1946, two miners died in clashes between the rival unions at a mine at Benham, Kentucky, which was represented by the Progressive Mine Workers. In 1982, the Progressive Mine Workers of America represented 4,500 coal miners, compared to the UMWA's membership of 160,000 The union dissolved in 1999.\n\nIn the United States, union violence often goes unpunished because of pro-union sympathies, or political pressure not to prosecute. A 1966 study cited numerous examples of local and state police failing to interfere with, and state and local prosecutors failing to prosecute, union violence. The authors concluded:\n\nA public official sees many votes on the picket line; few in the office. Perhaps in 1932 it was true that local officials were ignorant of union objectives and brutal in the extreme toward peaceful picketers. Nothing could be further from the truth in 1966.\n\nAlthough replacement workers have the legal right to be free from violence or intimidation in labor disputes, many law enforcement officials will not interfere with union intimidation, for fear of being accused of being anti-union. When Democratic governor of Arizona Bruce Babbitt sent the national guard to prevent threatened violence by strikers in the Phelps Dodge copper strike of 1982, a union official charged that he was \"in the pocket\" of Phelps Dodge.\n\nThe US Chamber of Commerce has pointed out that a number of states have made legal exceptions for labor disputes in their criminal laws. For example, California, Pennsylvania, Nevada, and Illinois have exempted labor disputes from their laws against stalking.\n\nThe Hobbs act makes extortion a federal crime, but under the United States Supreme Court's 1973 Enmons decision (United States v. Enmons), the actions of union officials in organizing strikes and other united acts of workers are exempt from Hobbs Act prosecutions, as long as the labor dispute is over pay for work performed. This exemption does not confer any immunity from state prosecution for violent acts.\n\nNo American labor union currently has a policy of openly advocating violence, and some, such as the United Mine Workers in the Pittston Coal strike, have publicly emphasized peaceful means; the UMWA has striking members watch videos about the union's rules to assure peaceful picketing. Labor unions have an incentive to keep strikes, and especially picket lines, peaceful, because if an activity organized and supervised by union officials such as picketing, becomes violent, the union itself may be found liable, in addition to the individuals.\n\nSome union sympathizers believe that labor union violence is justified, especially when directed at strikebreakers. Some hold that the law allowing and protecting strikebreakers is unfair, so that violence and intimidation are the only ways labor unionists can stage an effective strike. Others believe that, although violence is wrong, it should be tolerated as an excess done for the greater good. Clarence Darrow voiced this view in his courtroom defense of labor leader Big Bill Haywood, charged with ordering the assassination of the governor of Idaho:\n\nI don't care how many wrongs they committed, I don't care how many crimes these weak, rough, rugged, unlettered men who often know no other power but the brute force of their strong right arm, who find themselves bound and confined and impaired whichever way they turn, who look up and worship the god of might as the only god that they know--I don't care how often they fail, how many brutalities they are guilty of. I know their cause is just.\n\nExamples of local government inaction before or after union violence include the Herrin Massacre, where the county sheriff was a member of the United Mine Workers, and did nothing to prevent or stop the killing of 21 nonstriking workers, after the strikebreakers had given up their weapons on a promise of safe passage out of the county.\n\nDuring a nationwide Teamsters Union strike against UPS in 1987, the president of the Houston policeman's union faxed a message to all Houston police stations, urging them to stop UPS drivers, and \"go into zero tolerance mode, to get the nonstriking drivers off the street.\n\nOn 12 October 1898, at Virden, Illinois, a crowd of strikers armed with rifles tried to prevent a railroad car of strikebreakers from disembarking, and 8 strikers and 6 strikebreakers died in the gunfight. governor Tanner of Illinois ordered in the National Guard, and on his orders, the following day the Guard prevented the companies from bringing in more strikebreakers. Unable to continue operating, the companies gave in. The governor admitted that he had no legal authority for his action in preventing the arrival of strikebreakers, but said that he was doing the will of the people.\n\nWhen local, state, or federal officials try to prosecute union violence, they sometimes find that employers are reluctant to cooperate, for fear of union repraisal.\n\n\nPeople\n\n"}
{"id": "39664990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39664990", "title": "Women in Poland", "text": "Women in Poland\n\nThe character of women in Poland has been shaped by the history of Poland, its culture, and politics. The status of women in the country is one of contradictions. Poland has a long history of feminist activism, and was one of the first nations in Europe to enact women's suffrage. However, Poland is also strongly influenced by conservative social views shaped by the powerful presence of Roman Catholicism in Poland.\n\nThe history of women on the territory of present-day Poland has many roots, and has been strongly influenced by Roman Catholicism in Poland. Feminism in Poland has a long history, and has traditionally been divided into seven periods, beginning arguably with the 18th century enlightenment, followed by first-wave feminism. The first four early periods coincided with the foreign partitions of Poland, which resulted in the elimination of the sovereign Polish state for 123 years.\n\nPoland was among the first nations to grant women legal rights: women's suffrage was delivered in 1918, after the country regained independence that year, following the 123-year period of partition and foreign rule. Despite the improvement of the state's policies regarding women rights, Polish women still faced discrimination on various levels. The interwar period was the time of forming of the \"glass ceiling\" concept in Polish society. Women had to compete with men mainly for the well paid, high prestige positions. Lower salary was primarily a result of the lower efficiency of the female employees in the physical labor but was later implemented in the other sectors where women were equally productive.\n\nDuring the communist era, women were ostensibly granted equal legal rights, and the official government rhetoric was one of supporting gender equality, but as in other communist states, the civil rights of both men and women were merely symbolic, as the system was an authoritarian one. Despite remaining \"de facto\" subordinated to male authority, women did see some gains under the communist régime, such as better access to education and to a more equal involvement in the workforce. Women's better situation during the communist era was significantly influenced by the socialist pro-birth position, seeking the increase in the population. Pro-natalist policies were implemented by \"generous maternity leave beneﬁts and state contributions to child rearing\". After the martial law in Poland first publications discussing feminist ideas appeared in the public sphere, sometimes considered as the cover for the actual social situation. Society mainly perceived feminism as the ideology alien to the Polish culture and mentality. Communist leaders claimed that women in Poland obtained equal rights as the result of the socialistic social processes, and used that statement as the explanation for the lack and no need of feminism in Poland. One of the Polish communists described a typical feminist as an \"eccentric and aggressive witch, being anyway a lesbian, that would like to see a man go on all fours by her leg.\"\n\nThe fall of communism in Poland meant the shaking up of the politics and economy of the country, and initial economic and social destabilization. In the post-socialist workforce, women occupied mainly sectors of lower economic priority and light industries, due to factors such as selecting types of education and training more compatible with family life (usually paid less), discrimination and gender stereotypes. This pattern of the gender employment inequality was viewed by majority as the result of the female's primary role in the family, as well as deeply rooted Polish culture and tradition of the patriarchal system. The transition period was especially difficult for women, although men were also negatively affected. As of 2017, the employment rate for women aged 20–64 was 63.6%, compared to the men's rate of 78.2%. Although Poland has an image of a conservative country, being often depicted as such in the Western media, Poland actually has high numbers of professional women, and women in business, and it also has one of the lowest gender pay gaps in the European Union. One of the obstacles faced by contemporary women in Poland is the anti-abortion law. Together with the \"Polish Mother\" myth perspective, banning of abortion is used to encourage women to have many children. This ideology reinforces the view that women's place is in the home. The Polish Mother symbol is a stereotype strongly stuck in the Polish consciousness and was shaped by the turbulent history of the nation. During the long occupation time the responsibility for maintaining the national identity fell on the mothers, whose main task was the \"upbringing of children\". Despite the strict legislation and the conservative political discourse, Poland has one of the lowest fertility rate in Europe.\n\nThe status of women in contemporary Poland must be understood in the context of its political scene and of the role that the church plays in society. This is especially true withy regard to reproductive rights. Poland is a country strongly influenced by Roman Catholicism, and religion often shapes politics and social views. Law and Justice, abbreviated to PiS, is a national-conservative, and Christian democratic political party in Poland. With 237 seats in the Sejm and 66 in the Senate, it is currently the largest party in the Polish parliament.\n\nPoland is part of the European Union (EU) since 2004. As such, it is subject to the EU directives. As part of the EU, Poland is socially influenced by 'Western' views, but there are regional differences between the western and the eastern parts of the country - \"Poland A and B\". Poland also has a significant rural population: about 40%, which is deeply conservative.\n\nIn old-time Poland customs of the people differed based on the social status. Polish customs derived from the other European traditions, however, they usually came to Poland later than in other countries. The example of the chivalry illustrates the approach of the medieval class towards women. The entire idea of the chivalry was based on the almost divine worship of the female, and every knight had to have his \"lady\" (\"dama\") as the object of (very often platonic) love. Knights felt obligated to take a patronage over their ladies. Women in the old Poland were perceived as the soul of the company during the social gatherings. In old Poland woman had a preeminent social position. Referring to girls as \"panny\" (\"ladies\") which derives from the Polish word \"pan\" (\"sir\") unlike \"chłopcy\" (\"boys\") which comes from the word \"chłop\" (\"peasant\") is the sign of respect shown towards women. Long time before emancipation movements women in Poland made their social role very important, mainly due to th numerous conflicts and threats that kept man out of homes. Political and economic situation required women to become self-sufficient and valiant. Different from the modern times were also outfits of the Polish women. The mid-XVI century' apparels contained diverse types of decorations and accessories. Women's headwear included decorative wreaths, veils, and various hatbands. Among the notable elements of the old-time outfit were \"long, satin dresses\" decorated with the gold and pearls, as well as the \"aureate slippers\".\n\nPolish women have earned a special place in the country's sports. The top 3 place for the most wins in the annual most popular sportsperson contest, the Plebiscite of Przegląd Sportowy, are occupied by women. Among the most prominent Polish women athletes are Justyna Kowalczyk, Irena Szewińska and Stanisława Walasiewicz. In the 2016 Rio Summer Olympic Games Poland was represented by 101 women athletes. They won 8 out of 11 medals for Poland, including two gold medals. \n\nThe important women in Poland's early history include: Swietoslava (sometimes confused as being Sigrid the Haughty or Gunhilda; also known as Storrada), the daughter of Mieszko the First and Dobrawa of Bohemia; Katarzyna Jagiellonka (also known as Catherine Jagiello or Katarrina Jegellonica); Dobrawa herself (wife of Mieszko the First), the daughter of the Duke of Bohemia; Jadwiga (Hedwig), the daughter of a Hungarian king. During the Enlightenment, two women stand out: Barbara Sanguszko, hostess, writer and philanthropist and her granddaughter, Tekla Teresa Lubienska, writer and mother of a magnate dynasty. Emilia Plater was an early revolutionary associated with the November Uprising. In music, the composer and pianist, Maria Szymanowska won acclaim from St-Petersburg to London. Marie Sklodowska was a Nobel Prize winning scientist who moved to France in the late 19th-c. Many notable women contributed to Poland's independence movement at the dawn of the 20th-c. These included, the activist and military officers, Aleksandra Zagórska and the mostly forgotten, Wanda Gertz as well as Anna Walentynowicz, co-founder of the anti-communistic \"Solidarity\" (\"Solidarność\"). Wisława Szymborska was a Polish poet, recipient of the Nobel Prize in 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "1576145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1576145", "title": "Đerzelez Alija", "text": "Đerzelez Alija\n\nGjergj Elez Alia or Đerzelez Alija is a popular legendary hero in epic poetry and literature in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Gora and in northern Albania. Muslims from Bosnian Krajina modeled the poetic image of Alija Đerzelez after the image of Serbian (Christian) Prince Marko, based on the historic person Ali Bey Mihaloğlu. Songs about Đerzelez Alija were transmitted by bilingual singers from South Slavic milieu (some would say back) to northern Albanian milieu, where he is known as \"Gjergj Elez Alia\".\n\nThe most popular spelling of the name is \"Đerzelez Alija\", while there are many variants, such as (Djerdjelez Alija), , , and .\n\nHis name is derived from the Turkish word \"gürzi\" (mace) and means warrior with the mace.\n\nSome historians believed that epic figure of Đerzelez was inspired by Ali Bey Mihaloglu an Ottoman military commander in 15th century and the first sanjakbey of the Sanjak of Smederevo. According to Ottoman census of 1485 he was in charge for nahiya of Dobrun near Višegrad as his \"timar\" (land grant). There is a \"turbe\" (mausoleum) in the village of Gerzovo (near Mrkonjić Grad, Bosnia and Herzegovina) which according to legend is his burial place.\n\nThe first written record of the epic figure of Đerzelez (in the form of \"Ali-beg\") was a form of South Slavic \"bugarštica\" (long form epic and ballad poem), \"The Marriage of Vuk the Dragon-Despot\", recorded by Đuro Matei at the end of 17th or beginning of 18th century. In songs recorded in the Erlangen Manuscript, Đerzelez is mentioned in the form of \"Turk elder Balibeg\".\n\nĐerzelez was an epic hero of the Bosnian Krajina (frontier region) from the end of 15th century. Songs which emerged in South Slavic milieu were transmitted by bilingual singers (some would say back) to Albanian milieu, Đerzelez from Bosnian songs became Gjergj Elez Alia in Albanian songs. He is one of many Muslim heroes of South Slavic poetry who exists also in Albanian poetry.\n\nOttoman historian and chronicler Ibn Kemal (1468–1534) wrote about his popularity in folk songs in Bosnia.\n\nSome of the poems which include the name of Đerzelez in their titles are:\n\n| width=\"50%\" align=\"left\" valign=\"top\" style=\"border:0\"|\nĐerzelez is one of the main characters of many other poems without his name in their title, like:\n\nBosnian Muslims modeled the poetic image of Đerzelez after the image of Serbian (Christian) ruler Marko Kraljević (Prince Marko). According to the legend, Đerzelez also has an epic horse (sometimes called Šarac, as the horse of Marko) and he is a good friend of fairies who help him when he is in danger. Legend says that he was killed during his prayer (salat) because he did not want to interrupt it despite being aware that he would be killed.\n\nIvo Andrić, the 1961 winner of the Nobel Prize in literature, wrote \"Put Alije Đerzeleza\" [The Journey of Alija Đerzelez], published in 1920, after two fragments (\"Djerzelez at the Inn\" and \"Djerzelez on the Road\") were published in 1918 and 1919.\n\nOne of the oldest houses in Sarajevo, \"The House of Alija Đerzelez\", is named after him. There are streets in several towns in Bosnia and Herzegovina (Bihać, Gračanica, Zenica, etc.) named after him.\n\nIn Albanian folklore, Gjergj Elez Alia was a great warrior. The song \"Gjergj Elez Alia\" was recorded by Bernardin Palaj and Donat Kurti in Nikaj (Tropojë District) and published in Tirana in 1937. The song is usually sung accompanied by the \"lahuta\" (gusle), or occasionally with \"çifteli\", by the \"rapsodi\" (performer). The song is part of the larger cycle of the \"Albanian Songs of the Frontier Warriors\" () that crystallized in the 17th and 18th centuries and recorded in written form in the first decades of 20th century by the Franciscan priests Shtjefën Gjeçovi and Bernardin Palaj. Although they were transmitted from South Slavic milieu of Bosnia they are not simply translated from Serbo-Croatian, but have independently evolved in the northern Albanian highlands.\n\n\n"}
