{"id": "37023212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37023212", "title": "2012 Sydney anti-Islam film protests", "text": "2012 Sydney anti-Islam film protests\n\nOn 15 September 2012, a protest by Salafi Muslims against an alleged \"anti-Islam\" film \"Innocence of Muslims\" was held in Sydney, New South Wales. While the protest started peacefully, violent confrontations between police and protesters began when protesters reached the United States Consulate General. In resulting clashes, six police officers and 19 protesters were injured. The violence was condemned by Australian political leaders, including Prime Minister Julia Gillard. Police arrested nine protesters in connection with the violence.\n\nThe protest, through Pitt Street pedestrian mall and Martin Place, temporarily shut down parts of the city, instilling fear in members of the public (interviewed by live television crews), and was later brought under control by police.\n\nThe protest started at about midday when approximately 100 people gathered at the Sydney Town Hall before marching along George Street to Martin Place where the US Consulate is located. Conflict between the protesters and the police started when the former tried to enter the US Consulate. The police used capsicum spray to push the protesters back from the consulate. According to one protester this aggravated the crowd, as many had brought their children.\nThe crowd then moved to Hyde Park, where around 300 people had gathered. Further clashes erupted as police used capsicum spray on protesters who at times threw bottles at police. Protesters chanted \"Down, down USA\" and carried Sunni Islamist flags and signs saying, \"Behead all those who insult the prophet\", \"Our dead are in paradise, your dead are in hell\", \"Shariah will dominate the world\", and \"Obama Obama, we love Osama\" and threw bottles and objects retrieved from construction sites at police officers. The police responded by spraying capsicum spray into the crowd. Six police officers were injured of which two were hospitalized.\nAs the crowd started to leave Hyde Park near St James, Public Order and Riot Squad officers equipped with batons and riot shields had already been stationed at the park exit. Protestors continued to throw stones, sticks and bottles at the police. Riot and mounted police pursued protesters down William Street towards Kings Cross. The already splintered crowd then broke up further, running through the back streets of Darlinghurst with police chasing after them.\n\nPolice blocked several CBD streets, including the intersection of Martin Place and Castlereagh Street, parts of George Street and Market Street while protestors attempted to move through the city.\n\nNine men were arrested. Police continued to investigate the event using photographs published by news networks to identify people who attended the protest, stating that not all those caught on camera were guilty of offences, but might be able to help identify those who had acted violently. The Counter Terrorism Squad reported that they had identified a number of men known to have criminal convictions, although not necessarily linked to terrorist groups. Mohammed Issai Issaka was convicted for riot and assaulting police, and after losing an appeal, was jailed in April 2014. Others received suspended sentences for affray and resisting arrest, fines or good behaviour bonds for offenses ranging from assault, damaging property, to offensive language.\n\n\"The Australian\" reported that several of the protestors were carrying the black flags of an organisation described as al-Qa'ida sympathisers. An unnamed Muslim leader was quoted in the paper as saying that the protest had been hijacked by a group known as \"Sixth Pillar\", the name being a reference to the \"Five Pillars of Islam\" with jihad being claimed by some to be the \"sixth pillar of Islam\". The group may be linked to the controversial Sydney Sheikh Feiz Mohammed.\n\nThe Australian Prime Minister, Julia Gillard, condemned the violence saying, \"Violent protest is never acceptable - not today, not ever.\" The Premier of New South Wales, Barry O'Farrell, condemned the violence and promised to hold the perpetrators accountable, and that he was \"delighted there has been such a strong statement by Islamic leaders and scholars\". The Federal Opposition Leader, Tony Abbott, also condemned the use of violence and called on the perpetrators to be prosecuted.\n\nLeaders of 25 Muslim organisations met on the Monday night and said that the protests over the film were \"unacceptable and un-Islamic\", and that they did not support even peaceful protest. The Board of Imams Victoria met on 17 September to discuss strategies to prevent riots in Melbourne. The President of the Australian National Imams Council emphasised the importance of correct education of the younger generation. The plan of the Board of Imams Victoria was that the same message of peace should be preached across Australia on Friday 21 September with parents being urged to stay at home with their children after Friday prayers. Sheik Azeim urged all young Muslims in Australia to remember that they are Australians first, and that facilities such as schools, hospitals and the social security organisation Centrelink did not question whether they were Muslim.\n\nAn ABC Four Corners investigation \"Plan of Attack\" found that some leaders of the protest and prayers were involved in terrorist recruitment for ISIS and local planned terrorist operations. Among those involved with terrorist links were Khaled Sharrouf and Mohamed Elomar.\n\n"}
{"id": "3180743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3180743", "title": "3C-P", "text": "3C-P\n\n3C-P is a psychedelic phenethylamine. It has structural and pharmacodynamic properties similar to the drugs mescaline, proscaline, and amphetamine. Little information exists on the human pharmacology of 3C-P, but a psychedelic dosage appears to be 20–40 mg, and is accompanied by stimulant and psychedelic effects such as visual enhancement and distortion. It can be synthesized from syringaldehyde by reaction with \"n\"-propyl iodide followed by condensation with nitroethane and reduction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21034453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21034453", "title": "Abraham Kaufman", "text": "Abraham Kaufman\n\nDr. Abraham Josevich Kaufman (Абрам Иосифович Кауфман, b. November 22, 1885 – d. March 25, 1971) was a Russian-born medical doctor, community organizer and Zionist who helped protect some tens of thousands of Jews seeking safe-haven in East Asia from Nazi atrocities during World War II.\n\nAs a consequence of his contacts with Japanese authorities during World War II and the Second Sino-Japanese War, he was kidnapped, arrested and imprisoned by Soviet authorities immediately after the war, and was interned in a Soviet Gulag penal labor camp from 1945 to 1956. Israeli authorities subsequently worked to expedite his immigration to Israel, where he was able to resume his medical practice.\n\nAbraham Kaufman was born to Yosef Zalmonovich Kaufman in 1885 in Megilne (Мглине), a tiny Jewish village near Chernigov (ex-Chernihovsky Region –– бывшей Черниговской губернии) in the Ukraine, then part of the Russian Empire). He was a great grandson of Rabbi Shneur Zalman of Liadi, who founded the Chabad movement. Kaufman graduated from a traditional Gymnasium Institute (secondary school) in Perm, Russia, in 1903, where he became interested in Zionism. He then studied medicine from 1904 at the University of Bern, Switzerland, graduating and returning to Russia in 1908 or 1909.\n\nKaufman became an ardent Zionist, and while working in Perm after completing his medical degree he devoted all his spare time to supporting the movement, working under Dr. E. V. Chlenov (Е.В.Членов) in the Moscow region. He toured a number of cities lecturing on Zionism, and supervised the Hovavei Zion (хавевей-цион) organization, which was headed by his father Yosef.\n\nKaufman emigrated to Harbin, China in 1912, and quickly became the community \"shtadlan\" (organizer), active in many Jewish organizations. In 1914 he helped organize the EKOPO society (Jewish Committee for the Help of War Victims) to assist some 200,000 World War I refugees with shelter, food and medical care. In 1919 he became a Zionist leader in the Harbin Jewish community, and of Manchuria (called Manchukuo when it was occupied by Imperial Japan) more widely, in the 1930s. He became an integral part of the cultural organizations of Harbin Jewry. Between 1919–1945 he was variously:\n\nHe was also the head of the Far Eastern Jewish Council (FEJ – Национального Совета) which he helped found, and also the \"Vaad Haleumi\" (Ваад-Галеуми), both founded in 1937 with the encouragement of Japanese officials such as Norihiro Yasue.\n\nBefriended by Imperial Japanese Army Colonel Yasue and General Kiichirō Higuchi, the engineers of the later-named \"Fugu Plan\", Kaufman organized three large conferences of the Far Eastern Jewish Council, which brought together Jews from across East Asia, and successfully appealed for his organization to be accepted under the umbrella of the World Jewish Congress. Through these conferences, he worked to encourage Jews from other parts of the region, and the world, to think of Manchukuo as a safe-haven for Jews, reassuring them, as his Japanese friends had assured him, that the Japanese were not anti-Semitic, nor inclined to be racially discriminatory against Jews.\n\nIn May 1939, Kaufman was invited on an official visit to Tokyo, where he visited many of the ministries of the Japanese government, met with a number of officials, and became one of the few foreigners to be honored with an imperial award. He used this opportunity to express to the government officials with whom he met the desires, needs and attitudes of the Jews of Manchukuo, and was reassured of the non-discriminatory attitude of the Japanese government. He formally thanked Prime Minister Nobuyuki Abe for the prejudice-free protection offered Jews in East Asia by the Japanese authorities, and suggested that the global Jewish community would be grateful should Japan create a safe haven in East Asia, and that in return the Jewish communities of East Asia would support Imperial Japan's vision for a new order in East Asia.\n\nBy 1942, a great number of Jews had sought refuge in Japan from Eastern Europe, settling in Kobe before being moved to the Shanghai Ghetto in China. As early as 1941, the local Gestapo chief Josef Meisinger (\"The Butcher of Warsaw\") visited the ghetto, and proposed plans to exterminate its Jewish population. Kaufman, through his influence and contacts in the Japanese government, prevailed upon Tokyo to prevent Meisinger's plans being carried out. Ultimately, Kaufman succeeded and Meisinger's schemes were rejected by Tokyo, but not before the doctor along with seven other Jewish community leaders were arrested, imprisoned, and maltreated by the \"Kempeitai\" (Japanese military police) as traitors for accusing Japan of plotting genocide. All but one of the community leaders were released days or weeks after their arrests.\n\nFollowing his release, Kaufman returned to Harbin, and to his activities with the Far Eastern Jewish Council, which included raising substantial donations to the severely impoverished Jewish community in Shanghai.\n\nIn 1945, just days before the end of World War II, the Soviet Union declared war on Japan and invaded Manchuria, overrunning Harbin. To celebrate the end of the war a short time later on August 21, the Soviets held a formal reception to which they invited the many minority leaders of the city, including Dr. Kaufman. The Soviets then kidnapped him along with two of his colleagues, Anatoly Grigorievich Orlovsky (Анатолий Григорьевич Орловский), and Moses Gdalievich Zimin (Моисей Гдальевич Зимин)). They were subsequently arrested by the Soviet Red Army on charges of collaboration with foreign forces. Kaufman's former college roommate had been another notable Zionist, Chaim Weizmann, and a passport to Palestine was immediately issued for the doctor, but the Soviets refused to release him.\n\nThe Jewish community organizers were taken to the Soviet Union, where Kaufman was imprisoned in a Gulag labor camp for 11 years. Zimin would die during his imprisonment in the Soviet penal labor camp that he was interned in.\n\nAfter Kaufman's release from the Gulag system in 1956, he moved to Karaganda, Kazakhstan, and on March 25, 1961, emigrated to Israel. He was joined by his son Theodore (Teddy) Kaufman, who would later hold a high position in the Israeli government. Dr. Kaufman spent the remainder of his life practicing medicine, specializing in pediatrics under the Histadrut in Israel, and was buried there after he died in Tel Aviv in 1971.\n\nKaufman's wife also matriculated in medicine at the University of Bern. Kaufman’s son Theodore became president of Association of Former Jewish Residents of China, and also the Israel-China Friendship Society. He and Heilongjiang Academy of Social Sciences Professor Qu Wei co-wrote “The Homesick Feeling of the Harbin Jews”. Theodore’s wife, Rasha Segerman, studied at the Shanghai Jewish School in her youth.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1411798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1411798", "title": "Alister Hardy", "text": "Alister Hardy\n\nAlister Clavering Hardy FRS FRSE FLS (10 February 1896 – 22 May 1985) was an English marine biologist, an expert on marine ecosystems spanning organisms from zooplankton to whales.\n\nHardy served as zoologist on the RRS \"Discovery\"'s voyage to explore the Antarctic between 1925 and 1927. On the voyage he invented the Continuous Plankton Recorder; it enabled any ship to collect plankton samples during an ordinary voyage.\n\nAfter retiring from his academic work, Hardy founded the Religious Experience Research Centre in 1969.\n\nHardy was born in Nottingham, the son of Richard Hardy, an architect, and his wife, Elizabeth Hannah Clavering. He was educated not far away at Oundle School. He had intended to go to Oxford University in 1914, but on the outbreak of war he instead volunteered for the army, and was made a \"camoufleur\", a camouflage officer. Hardy wrote that he had been\n\nHe was selected for camouflage work by the artist Solomon J. Solomon, who apparently mistook him for a different Hardy who was a professional artist. Hardy however did have sufficient artistic skill to serve his military and scientific work. He illustrated his New Naturalist books with his own line drawings, maps, diagrams, photographs, and paintings. For example, plate 2 of \"Fish and Fisheries\" illustrates the depicted \"Rare and Unusual Fish in British Waters\" both accurately and vividly. Hardy described the camoufleurs as including artists and \"scientists with artistic inclinations\", himself perhaps among them.\n\nIn later life, Hardy travelled in India, Sri Lanka, Burma, Cambodia, China and Japan, recording his visits to temples in all those countries in watercolour paintings. Many of these are in the University of Wales Trinity Saint David collection.\n\nHardy was the zoologist on the RRS \"Discovery\" voyage to explore the Antarctic between 1925 and 1927, as part of the Discovery Investigations. Through his studies of zooplankton and its relationship with predators, he became expert in marine mammals such as whales. Whilst on board the \"Discovery\" he designed and later built a mechanism called the Continuous Plankton Recorder or CPR. The CPR collects plankton samples and stores them on a moving band of silk, preserving them in formalin. His pioneering research into plankton distribution and abundance is continued by the Sir Alister Hardy Foundation for Ocean Science (SAHFOS).\n\nHardy was the first Professor of Zoology at the University of Hull from 1928 - 1942. In 1942, he was then appointed Professor of Natural History at the University of Aberdeen, where he remained until 1946, when he became Linacre Professor of Zoology in the University of Oxford and Fellow of Merton College, a position he held until 1961. In 1940, Hardy was made a Fellow of the Royal Society. He was knighted in 1957.\n\nHardy identified as a Darwinian, he denied the Lamarckian inheritance of acquired characteristics. He was a proponent of organic selection (also known as the Baldwin effect). He held the view that behavioral changes can be important for evolution.\n\nHardy discussed his evolutionary ideas in his book \"The Living Stream\" (1965). He had written a chapter titled \"Biology and Telepathy\" where he explained that \"something akin to telepathy might possibly influence the process of evolution\". Evolutionary biologist Ernst Mayr described his views on evolution as a form of vitalism. Hardy also suggested that certain animals share a \"group mind\" which he described as \"a sort of psychic blueprint between members of a species.\" He also speculated that all species might be linked in a \"cosmic mind\" capable of carrying evolutionary information through space and time.\n\nIn 1930, while reading Wood Jones' \"Man's Place among the Mammals\", which included the question of why humans, unlike all other land mammals, had fat attached to their skin, Hardy realized that this trait sounded like the blubber of marine mammals, and began to suspect that humans had ancestors that were more aquatic than previously imagined. Fearing a backlash against such a radical idea, he kept this hypothesis secret until 1960, when he spoke, and later wrote, on the subject, which subsequently became known as the aquatic ape hypothesis in academic circles.\n\nDating from his boyhood at Oundle School, Hardy had a lifelong interest in spiritual phenomena, but aware that his interests were likely to be considered unorthodox in the scientific community, apart from occasional lectures he kept his opinions to himself until his retirement from his Oxford Chair. During the academic sessions of 1963-4 and 1964-5, he gave the Gifford Lectures at Aberdeen University on the evolution of religion, later published as \"The Living Stream\" and \"The Divine Flame\". These lectures signalled his wholehearted return to his religious interests. In 1969 he founded the Religious Experience Research Unit in Manchester College, Oxford. The Unit began its work by compiling a database of religious experiences and continues to investigate the nature and function of spiritual and religious experience at the University of Wales, Lampeter. In 1973 he met with A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada and other devotees of the Hare Krishna movement and discussed Vedic literature, the divine flame and Rabindranath Tagore.\n\nHardy's biological approach to the roots of religion is currently shared by a number of other researchers (cf. Scott Atran, Pascal Boyer) but unlike them Hardy did not wish to be reductionist, seeing religious awareness as having evolved in response to a genuine dimension of reality. For his work in founding the Religious Experience Research Centre, Hardy received the Templeton Prize shortly before his death in 1985.\n\nHe was married to Sylvia Garstang in 1927.\n\nHardy wrote numerous scientific papers on plankton, fish and whales. He wrote two popular books in the \"New Naturalist\" series, and in later life he also wrote on religion.\n\n\nHardy's \"pioneering work\" was recognised by South Georgia & South Sandwich Islands in 2011 with a set of four commemorative stamps bearing his image.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "823229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=823229", "title": "Ancient Greek temple", "text": "Ancient Greek temple\n\nGreek temples (, semantically distinct from Latin , \"temple\") were structures built to house deity statues within Greek sanctuaries in ancient Greek religion. The temple interiors did not serve as meeting places, since the sacrifices and rituals dedicated to the respective deity took place outside them, within the wider precinct of the sanctuary, which might be large. Temples were frequently used to store votive offerings. They are the most important and most widespread building type in Greek architecture. In the Hellenistic kingdoms of Southwest Asia and of North Africa, buildings erected to fulfill the functions of a temple often continued to follow the local traditions. Even where a Greek influence is visible, such structures are not normally considered as Greek temples. This applies, for example, to the Graeco-Parthian and Bactrian temples, or to the Ptolemaic examples, which follow Egyptian tradition. Most Greek temples were oriented astronomically. \n\nBetween the 9th century BC and the 6th century BC, the ancient Greek temples developed from the small mudbrick structures into double porched monumental buildings with colonnade on all sides, often reaching more than 20 metres in height (not including the roof). Stylistically, they were governed by the regionally specific architectural orders. Whereas the distinction was originally between the Doric and Ionic orders, a third alternative arose in late 3rd century BC with the Corinthian order. A multitude of different ground plans were developed, each of which could be combined with the superstructure in the different orders. From the 3rd century BC onwards, the construction of large temples became less common; after a short 2nd century BC flourish, it ceased nearly entirely in the 1st century BC. Thereafter, only smaller structures were newly begun, while older temples continued to be renovated or brought to completion if in an unfinished state.\n\nGreek temples were designed and constructed according to set proportions, mostly determined by the lower diameter of the columns or by the dimensions of the foundation levels. The nearly mathematical strictness of the basic designs thus reached was lightened by optical refinements. In spite of the still widespread idealised image, Greek temples were painted, so that bright reds and blues contrasted with the white of the building stones or of stucco. The more elaborate temples were equipped with very rich figural decoration in the form of reliefs and pedimental sculpture. The construction of temples was usually organised and financed by cities or by the administrations of sanctuaries. Private individuals, especially Hellenistic rulers, could also sponsor such buildings. In the late Hellenistic period, their decreasing financial wealth, along with the progressive incorporation of the Greek world within the Roman state, whose officials and rulers took over as sponsors, led to the end of Greek temple construction. New temples now belonged to the tradition of the Roman temple, which, in spite of the very strong Greek influence on it, aimed for different goals and followed different aesthetic principles (for a comparison, see the other article).\n\nThe main temple building sat within a larger precinct or temenos, usually surrounded by a peribolos fence or wall; the whole is usually called a \"sanctuary\". The Acropolis of Athens is the most famous example, though this was apparently walled as a citadel before a temple was ever built there. This might include many subsidiary buildings, sacred groves or springs, animals dedicated to the deity, and sometimes people who had taken sanctuary from the law, which some temples offered, for example to runaway slaves.\n\nThe earliest Greek sanctuaries probably lacked temple buildings, though our knowledge of these is limited, and the subject is controversial. A typical early sanctuary seems to have consisted of a tenemos, often around a sacred grove, cave or spring, and perhaps defined only by marker stones at intervals, with an altar for offerings. Many rural sanctuaries probably stayed in this style, but the more popular were gradually able to afford a building to house a cult image, especially in cities. This process was certainly under way by the 9th century, and probably started earlier.\nThe Mycenaean Megaron (15th to the 13th century BCE) was the precursor for later Archaic and Classical Greek temples, but during the Greek dark age the buildings became smaller and less monumental. \nThe basic principles for the development of Greek temple architecture have their roots between the 10th century BC and the 7th century BC. In its simplest form as a \"naos\", the temple was a simple rectangular shrine with protruding side walls (antae), forming a small porch. Until the 8th century BC, there were also apsidal structures with more or less semi-circular back walls, but the rectangular type prevailed. By adding columns to this small basic structure, the Greeks triggered the development and variety of their temple architecture.\n\nThe Temple of Isthmia, built in 690 - 650 BC was perhaps the first true Archaic temple with its monumental size, sturdy colonnade and tile roof set the Isthmian temple apart from contemporary buildings \n\nThe first temples were mostly mud, brick, and marble structures on stone foundations. The columns and superstructure (entablature) were wooden, door openings and antae were protected with wooden planks. The mud brick walls were often reinforced by wooden posts, in a type of half-timbered technique. The elements of this simple and clearly structured wooden architecture produced all the important design principles that were to determine the development of Greek temples for centuries.\n\nNear the end of the 7th century BC, the dimensions of these simple structures were increased considerably. Temple C at Thermos is the first of the \"hekatompedoi\", temples with a length of . Since it was not technically possible to roof broad spaces at that time, these temples remained very narrow, at 6 to 10 metres in width.\n\nTo stress the importance of the cult statue and the building holding it, the naos was equipped with a canopy, supported by columns. The resulting set of porticos surrounding the temple on all sides (the peristasis) was exclusively used for temples in Greek architecture.\n\nThe combination of the temple with porticos (\"ptera\") on all sides posed a new aesthetic challenge for the architects and patrons: the structures had to be built to be viewed from all directions. This led to the development of the \"peripteros\", with a frontal \"pronaos\" (porch), mirrored by a similar arrangement at the back of the building, the \"opisthodomos\", which became necessary for entirely aesthetic reasons. \nAfter the reintroduction of stone architecture, the essential elements and forms of each temple, such as the number of columns and of column rows, underwent constant change throughout Greek antiquity.\n\nIn the 6th century BC, Ionian Samos developed the double-colonnaded \"dipteros\" as an alternative to the single \"peripteros\". This idea was later copied in Didyma, Ephesos and Athens. Between the 6th and the late 4th century BC, innumerable temples were built; nearly every polis, every colony contained one or several. There were also temples at extra-urban sites and at major sanctuaries like Olympia and Delphi.\n\nThe observable change of form indicates the search for a harmonious form of all architectural elements: the development led from simpler early forms which often appear coarse and bulky up to the aesthetic perfection and refinement of the later structures; from simple experimentation to the strict mathematical complexity of ground plans and superstructures.\n\nFrom the early Hellenistic period onwards, the Greek peripteral temple lost much of its importance. With very few exceptions, Classical temple construction ceased both in Hellenistic Greece and in the Greek colonies of Magna Graecia. Only the west of Asia Minor maintained a low level of temple construction during the 3rd century BC. The construction of large projects, such as the temple of Apollo at Didyma near Miletus and the Artemision at Sardis did not make much progress.\n\nThe 2nd century BC saw a revival of temple architecture, including peripteral temples. This is partially due to the influence of the architect Hermogenes of Priene, who redefined the principles of Ionic temple construction both practically and through theoretical work. At the same time, the rulers of the various Hellenistic kingdoms provided copious financial resources. Their self-aggrandisation, rivalry, desires to stabilise their spheres of influence, as well as the increasing conflict with Rome (partially played out in the field of culture), combined to release much energy into the revival of complex Greek temple architecture. During this phase, Greek temples became widespread in southern Asia Minor, Egypt and Northern Africa.\n\nBut in spite of such examples and of the positive conditions produced by the economic upturn and the high degree of technical innovation in the 3rd and 2nd centuries BC, Hellenistic religious architecture is mostly represented by a multitude of small temples \"in antis\" and \"prostyle\" temples, as well as tiny shrines (\"naiskoi\"). The latter had been erected in important places, on market squares, near springs and by roads, since the Archaic period, but reached their main flourish now. This limitation to smaller structures led to the development of a special form, the \"pseudoperipteros\", which uses engaged columns along the cella walls to produce the illusion of a peripteral temple. An early case of this is temple L at Epidauros, followed by many prominent Roman examples, such as the Maison Carrée at Nîmes.\n\nIn the early 1st century BC, the Mithridatic Wars led to changes of architectural practice. The role of sponsor was increasingly taken by Roman magistrates of the Eastern provinces, who rarely demonstrated their generosity by building temples. Nevertheless, some temples were erected at this time, e.g. the Temple of Aphrodite at Aphrodisias.\n\nThe introduction of the principate lead to few new buildings, mostly temples for the imperial cult or to Roman deities, e.g. the temple of Jupiter at Baalbek. Although new temples to Greek deities still continued to be constructed, e.g. the Tychaion at Selge they tend to follow the canonical forms of the developing Roman imperial style of architecture or to maintain local non-Greek idiosyncrasies, like the temples in Petra or Palmyra. The increasing romanisation of the east entailed the end of Greek temple architecture, although work continued on the completion of unfinished large structures like the temple of Apollo at Didyma or the Olympieion at Athens into the later 2nd century AD.\nThe edicts of Theodosius I and his successors on the throne of the Roman Empire, banning pagan cults, led to the gradual closure of Greek temples, or their conversion into Christian churches.\n\nThus ends the history of the Greek temple, although many of them remained in use for a long time afterwards. For example, the Athenian Parthenon, first reconsecrated as a church was turned into a mosque after the Ottoman conquest and remained structurally unharmed until the 17th century AD. Only the unfortunate impact of a Venetian cannonball into the building, then used to store gunpowder, led to the destruction of much of this important temple, more than 2,000 years after it was built.\n\nCanonical Greek temples maintained the same basic structure throughout many centuries. The Greeks used a limited number of spatial components, influencing the plan, and of architectural members, determining the elevation.\n\nThe central cult structure of the temple is the \"naos\" or Cella, which usually contained a cult statue of the deity. In Archaic temples, a separate room, the so-called \"adyton\" was sometimes included after the cella for this purpose. In Sicily, this habit continued into the Classical period.\n\nIn front of the \"cella\", there is a porch, the \"pronaos\", created by the protruding side walls of the \"cella\" (the \"antae)\", and two columns placed between them. A door allows the cella to be accessed from the \"pronaos\". A similar room at the back of the cella is called the \"opisthodomos\". There is no door connecting the \"opisthodomos\" with the \"cella\"; its existence is necessitated entirely by aesthetic considerations: to maintain the consistency of the peripteral temple and to ensure its viewability from all sides, the execution of the front has to be repeated at the rear. A restricted space, the \"adyton\", may be included at the far end of the \"cella\", backing up on the \"opisthodomos\".\n\nThe complex formed by the \"naos\", \"pronaos\", \"opisthodomos\" and possibly the \"adyton\" is enclosed on all four sides by the \"peristasis\", usually a single row, rarely a double one, of columns. This produces a surrounding portico, the \"pteron\", which offered shelter to visitors of the sanctuary and room for cult processions.\n\nThese components allowed the realisation of a variety of different plan types in Greek temple architecture. The simplest example of a Greek temple is the \"templum in antis\", a small rectangular structure sheltering the cult statue. In front of the \"cella\", a small porch or \"pronaos\" was formed by the protruding cella walls, the \"antae\". The \"pronaos\" was linked to the \"cella\" by a door. To support the superstructure, two columns were placed between the \"antae\" (\"distyle in antis\"). When equipped with an \"opisthodomos\" with a similar \"distyle in antis\" design, this is called a double anta temple. A variant of that type has the \"opisthodomos\" at the back of the \"cella\" indicated merely by half-columns and shortened \"antae\", so that it can be described as a \"pseudo-opisthodomos\". \n\nIf the porch of a temple \"in antis\" has a row of usually four or six columns in front of its whole breadth, the temple is described as a \"prostylos\" or \"prostyle temple\". The whole \"pronaos\" may be omitted in this case or just leave the \"antae\" without columns. An \"amphiprostylos\" or \"amphiprostyle\" repeats the same column setting at the back.\n\nIn contrast, the term \"peripteros\" or peripteral designates a temple surrounded by \"ptera\" (colonnades) on all four sides, each usually formed by a single row of columns. This produces an unobstructed surrounding portico, the \"peristasis\", on all four sides of the temple. A Hellenistic and Roman form of this shape is the \"pseudoperipteros\", where the side columns of the peristasis are indicated only by engaged columns or pilasters directly attached to the external cella walls.\n\nA \"dipteros\" or \"dipteral\" is equipped with a double colonnade on all four sides, sometimes with further rows of columns at the front and back. A \"pseudodipteros\" has engaged columns in the inner row of columns at the sides.\n\nCircular temples form a special type. If they are surrounded by a colonnade, they are known as peripteral tholoi. Although of sacred character, their function as a temple can often not be asserted. A comparable structure is the \"monopteros\", or \"cyclostyle\" which, however, lacks a \"cella\".\n\nTo clarify ground plan types, the defining terms can be combined, producing terms such as: peripteral double anta temple, prostyle \"in antis\", peripteral amphiprostyle, etc.\n\nAn additional definition, already used by Vitruvius (IV, 3, 3) is determined by the number of columns at the front. Modern scholarship uses the following terms:\n\nThe term \"dodekastylos\" is only used for the 12-column hall at the Didymaion. No temples with facades of that width are known.\n\nVery few temples had an uneven number of columns at the front. Examples are Temple of Hera I at Paestum, Temple of Apollo A at Metapontum, both of which have a width of nine columns (enneastyle), and the Archaic temple at Thermos with a width of five columns (pentastyle).\n\nThe elevation of Greek temples is always subdivided in three zones: the \"crepidoma\", the columns and the entablature.\n\nStereobate, \"euthynteria\" and \"crepidoma\" form the substructure of the temple. The underground foundation of a Greek temple is known as the stereobate. It consists of several layers of squared stone blocks. The uppermost layer, the \"euthynteria\", partially protrudes above the ground level. Its surface is carefully smoothed and levelled. It supports a further foundation of three steps, the \"crepidoma\". The uppermost level of the \"crepidoma\" provides the surface on which the columns and walls are placed; it is called stylobate.\n\nPlaced on the stylobate are the vertical column shafts, tapering towards the top. They are normally made of several separately cut column drums. Depending on the architectural order, a different number of flutings are cut into the column shaft: Doric columns have 18 to 20 flutings, Ionic and Corinthian ones normally have 24. Early Ionic columns had up to 48 flutings. While Doric columns stand directly on the stylobate, Ionic and Corinthian ones possess a base, sometimes additionally placed atop a plinth.\n\nIn Doric columns, the top is formed by a concavely curved neck, the \"hypotrachelion\", and the capital, in Ionic columns, the capital sits directly on the shaft. In the Doric order, the capital consists of a circular torus bulge, originally very flat, the so-called \"echinus\", and a square slab, the \"abacus\". In the course of their development, the \"echinus\" expands more and more, culminating in a linear diagonal, at 45° to the vertical. The \"echinus\" of Ionic columns is decorated with an egg-and-dart band followed by a sculpted pillow forming two volutes, supporting a thin \"abacus\". The eponymous Corinthian capital of the Corinthian order is crowned by rings of stylised acanthus leaves, forming tendrils and volutes that reach to the corners of the \"abacus\".\n\nThe capitals support the entablature. In the Doric order, the entablature always consists of two parts, the architrave and the Doric frieze (or triglyph frieze). The Ionic order of Athens and the Cyclades also used a frieze above an architrave, whereas the frieze remained unknown in the Ionic architecture of Asia Minor until the 4th century BC. There, the architrave was directly followed by the \"dentil\". The frieze was originally placed in front of the roof beams, which were externally visible only in the earlier temples of Asia Minor. The Doric frieze was structured by triglyphs. These were placed above the axis of each column, and above the centre of each intercolumniation. The spaces between the triglyphs contained metopes, sometimes painted or decorated with relief sculpture. In the Ionic or Corinthian orders, the frieze possesses no triglyphs and is simply left flat, sometimes decorated with paintings or reliefs. With the introduction of stone architecture, the protection of the porticos and the support of the roof construction was moved upwards to the level of the \"geison\", depriving the frieze of its structural function and turning it into an entirely decorative feature. Frequently, the \"cella\" is also decorated with architrave and frieze, especially at the front of the \"pronaos\".\n\nAbove the frieze, or an intermediate member, e.g. the dentil of the Ionic or Corinthian orders, the cornice protrudes notably. It consists of the \"geison\" (on the sloped sides or pediments of the narrow walls a sloped \"geison\"), and the \"sima\". On the long side, the \"sima\", often elaborately decorated, was equipped with water spouts, often in the shape of lions' heads. The pedimental triangle or \"tympanon\" on the narrow sides of the temple was created by the Doric introduction of the gabled roof, earlier temples often had hipped roofs. The \"tympanon\" was usually richly decorated with sculptures of mythical scenes or battles. The corners and ridges of the roof were decorated with \"acroteria\", originally geometric, later floral or figural decorations.\n\nAs far as topographically possible, the temples were freestanding and designed to be viewed from all sides. They were not normally designed with consideration for their surroundings, but formed autonomous structures. This is a major difference from Roman temples which were often designed as part of a planned urban area or square and had a strong emphasis on being viewed frontally.\n\nThe foundations of Greek temples could reach dimensions of up to 115 by 55 m, i.e. the size of an average soccer field. Columns could reach a height of 20 m. To design such large architectural bodies harmoniously, a number of basic aesthetic principles were developed and tested already on the smaller temples. The main measurement was the foot, varying between 29 and 34 cm from region to region. This initial measurement was the basis for all the units that determined the shape of the temple. Important factors include the lower diameter of the columns and the width of their plinths. The distance between the column axes (intercolumniation or bay) could also be used as a basic unit. These measurements were in set proportions to other elements of design, such as column height and column distance. In conjunction with the number of columns per side, they also determined the dimensions of stylobate and \"peristasis\", as well as of the \"naos\" proper. The rules regarding vertical proportions, especially in the Doric order, also allow for a deduction of the basic design options for the entablature from the same principles. Alternatives to this very rational system were sought in the temples of the late 7th and early 6th centuries BC, when it was attempted to develop the basic measurements from the planned dimensions of \"cella\" or stylobate, i.e. to reverse the system described above and deduce the smaller units from the bigger ones. Thus, for example, the \"cella\" length was sometimes set at (100 is a sacred number, also known from the \"hecatomb\", a sacrifice of 100 animals), and all further measurements had to be in relation to this number, leading to aesthetically quite unsatisfactory solutions.\n\nAnother determining design feature was the relationship linking \"naos\" and \"peristasis\". In the original temples, this would have been subject entirely to practical necessities, and always based on axial links between \"cella\" walls and columns, but the introduction of stone architecture broke that connection. Nevertheless, it did survive throughout Ionic architecture. In Doric temples, however, the wooden roof construction, originally placed behind the frieze, now started at a higher level, behind the \"geison\". This ended the structural link between frieze and roof; the structural elements of the latter could now be placed independent of axial relationships. As a result, the \"cella\" walls lost their fixed connection with the columns for a long time and could be freely placed within the \"peristasis\". Only after a long phase of developments did the architects choose the alignment of the outer wall face with the adjacent column axis as the obligatory principle for Doric temples. Doric temples in Greater Greece rarely follow this system.\n\nThe basic proportions of the building were determined by the numeric relationship of columns on the front and back to those on the sides. The classic solution chosen by Greek architects is the formula \"frontal columns : side columns = n : (2n+1)\", which can also be used for the number of intercolumniations. As a result, numerous temples of the Classical period in Greece ( to 336 BC) had 6 × 13 columns or 5 × 11 intercolumnitions. The same proportions, in a more abstract form, determine most of the Parthenon, not only in its 8 × 17 column \"peristasis\", but also, reduced to 4:9, in all other basic measurements, including the intercolumniations, the stylobate, the width-height proportion of the entire building, and the \"geison\" (here reversed to 9:4).\nSince the turn of the 3rd and 2nd centuries BC, the proportion of column width to the space between columns, the intercolumnium, played an increasingly important role in architectural theory, reflected, for example, in the works of Vitruvius. According to this proportion, Vitruvius (3, 3, 1 ff) distinguished between five different design concepts and temple types:\nThe determination and discussion of these basic principles went back to Hermogenes, whom Vitruvius credits with the invention of the \"eustylos\". The Temple of Dionysos at Teos, normally ascribed to Hermogenes, does indeed have intercolumnia measuring 2 &frac16; of the lower column diameters.\n\nTo loosen up the mathematical strictness and to counteract distortions of human visual perception, a slight curvature of the whole building, hardly visible with the naked eye, was introduced. The ancient architects had realised that long horizontal lines tend to make the optical impression of sagging towards their centre. To prevent this effect, the horizontal lines of stylobate and/or entablature were raised by a few centimetres towards the middle of a building. This avoidance of mathematically straight lines also included the columns, which did not taper in a linear fashion, but were refined by a pronounced \"swelling\" (\"entasis\") of the shaft. Additionally, columns were placed with a slight inclination towards the centre of the building. Curvature and entasis occur from the mid 6th century BC onwards. \n\nThe most consistent use of these principles is seen in the Classical Parthenon on the Athenian Acropolis. Its curvature affects all horizontal elements up to the sima, even the cella walls reflect it throughout their height. The inclination of its columns (which also have a clear entasis), is continued by architrave and triglyph frieze, the external walls of the cella also reflect it. Not one block of the building, not a single architrave or frieze element could be hewn as a simple rectilinear block. All architectural elements display slight variations from the right angle, individually calculated for each block. As a side effect, each preserved building block from the Parthenon, its columns, cella walls or entablature, can be assigned its exact position today. In spite of the immense extra effort entailed in this perfection, the Parthenon, including its sculptural decoration, was completed in the record time of sixteen years (447 to 431 BC).\n\nOnly three basic colours were used: white, blue and red, occasionally also black. The crepidoma, columns, and architrave were mostly white. Only details, like the horizontally cut grooves at the bottom of Doric capitals (\"annuli\"), or decorative elements of Doric architraves (e.g. \"taenia\" and \"guttae\") might be painted in different colours. The frieze was clearly structured by use of colours. In a Doric triglyph frieze, blue triglyphs alternated with red metopes, the latter often serving as a background for individually painted sculptures. Reliefs, ornaments, and pedimental sculptures were executed with a wider variety of colours and nuances. Recessed or otherwise shaded elements, like mutules or triglyph slits could be painted black. The paint was mostly applied to parts that were not load-bearing, whereas structural parts like columns or the horizontal elements of architrave and \"geison\" were left unpainted (if made of high-quality limestone or marble) or covered with a white stucco.\n\nGreek temples were often enhanced with figural decorations. especially the frieze areas offered space for reliefs and relief slabs; the pedimental triangles often contained scenes of free-standing sculpture. In Archaic times, even the architrave could be relief-decorated on Ionic temples, as demonstrated by the earlier temple of Apollo at Didyma. Here, the architrave corners bore gorgons, surrounded by lions and perhaps other animals. On the other hand, the Ionic temples of Asia Minor did not possess a separate frieze to allow space for relief decoration. The most common area for relief decoration remained the frieze, either as a typical Doric triglyph frieze, with sculpted metopes, or as a continuous frieze on Cycladic and later on Eastern Ionic temples.\n\nThe metopes, separate individual tableaux that could usually not contain more than three figures each, usually depicted individual scenes belonging to a broader context. It is rare for scenes to be distributed over several metopes; instead, a general narrative context, usually a battle, is created by the combination of multiple isolated scenes. Other thematical contexts could be depicted in this fashion. For example, the metopes at the front and back of the Temple of Zeus at Olympia depicted the Twelve Labours of Heracles. Individual mythological scenes, like the abduction of Europa or a cattle raid by the Dioscuri could be thus depicted, as could scenes from the voyage of the Argonauts or the Trojan War. The battles against the centaurs and Amazons, as well as the gigantomachy, all three depicted on the Parthenon, were recurring themes on many temples. \nBattle scenes of all kinds were also a common theme of Ionic friezes, e.g. the Gigantomachy on the temple of Hekate at Lagina, or the Amazonomachy on the temple of Artemis at Magnesia on the Maeander, both from the late 2nd century BC. Complex compositions visualised the back and forth of fighting for the viewer. Such scenes were contrasted by more quiet or peaceful ones: The Assembly of the gods and a procession dominate the 160 m long frieze that is placed on top of the \"naos\" walls of the Parthenon. \nSpecial attention was paid to the decoration of the pedimental triangles, not least because of their size and frontal position. Originally, the pediments were filled with massive reliefs, e.g. shortly after 600 BC on the temple of Artemis at Kerkyra, where the west pediment is taken up by the gorgon Medusa and her children at the centre, flanked by panthers. Smaller scenes are displayed in the low corners of the pediments, e.g. Zeus with a thunderbolt, fighting a Giant. The pedimental sculpture of the first peripteral temple on the Athenian Acropolis, from BC, is nearly free-standing sculpture, but remains dominated by a central scene of fighting lions. Again, the corners contain separate scenes, including Heracles fighting Triton. After the mid-6th century BC, the compositional scheme changes: animal scenes are now placed in the corners, soon they disappear entirely. The central composition is now taken over by mythological fights or by rows of human figures. The high regard in which the Greeks held pedimental sculptures in demonstrated by the discovery of the sculptures from the Late Archaic temple of Apollo at Delphi, which had received a veritable burial after the temple's destruction in 373 BC. The themes of the individual pedimental scenes are increasingly dominated by myths connected with the locality. Thus, the east pediment at Olympia depicts the preparations for a chariot race between Pelops and Oinomaos, the mythical king of nearby Pisa. It is the foundation myth of the sanctuary itself, displayed here in its most prominent position. A similarly direct association is provided by the birth of Athena on the east pediment of the Parthenon, or the struggle for Attica between her and Poseidon on its west pediment. The pediment of the later temple of the Kabeiroi at Samothrace, late 3rd century BC, depicted a probably purely local legend, of no major interest to Greece as a whole. \n\nThe roofs were crowned by \"acroteria\", originally in the form of elaborately painted clay disks, from the 6th century BC onwards as fully sculpted figures placed on the corners and ridges of the pediments. They could depict bowls and tripods, griffins, spinxes, and especially mythical figures and deities. For example, depictions of the running Nike crowned the Alcmaeonid temple of Apollo at Delphi, and mounted amazons formed the corner akroteria of the temple of Asklepios in Epidauros. Pausanias (5, 10, 8) describes bronze tripods forming the corner akroteria and statues of Nike by Paeonios forming the ridge ones on the Temple of Zeus at Olympia.\n\nFor the sake of completeness, a further potential bearer of sculptural decoration should be mentioned here: the \"columnae celetae\" of the Ionic temples at Ephesos and Didyma. Here, already on the Archaic temples, the lower parts of the column shafts were decorated by protruding relief decorations, originally depicting rows of figures, replaced on their late Classical and Hellenistic successors with mythological scenes and battles.\n\nThe functions of the temple mainly concentrated on the \"cella\", the \"dwelling\" of the cult statue. The elaboration of the temple's external aspects served to stress the dignity of the \"cella\". In contrast, the \"cella\" itself was often finished with some moderation, although by the Roman period some had clearly become rather cluttered with other statues, military trophies and other gifts. Often, the only source of light for \"cella\" and cult statue was the \"cella\"'s frontal door, and oil lamps within. Thus, the interior only received a limited amount of light. Exceptions are found in the temples of Apollo at Bassae and of Athena at Tegea, where the southern \"cella\" wall had a door, potentially allowing more light into the interior. A special situation applies to the temples of the Cyclades, where the roof was usually of marble tiles. Marble roofs also covered the temple of Zeus at Olympia and the Parthenon at Athens. As marble is not entirely opaque, those \"cellas\" may have been permeated with a distinctive diffused light. \n\nFor cultic reasons, but also to use the light of the rising sun, virtually all Greek temples were oriented to the east. Some exceptions existed, e.g. the west-facing temples of Artemis at Ephesos and at Magnesia on the Maeander, or the north-south oriented temples of Arcadia. Such exceptions are probably connected with cult practice. Study of the soils around temple sites, is evidence that temple sites were chosen with regard to particular deities: for example, amid arable soils for the agricultural deities Dionysos and Demeter, and near rocky soils for the hunter gatherer deities Apollo and Artemis.\n\nThe cult image normally took the form of a statue of the deity, typically roughly life-size, but in some cases many times life-size, in early days in wood, marble or terracotta, or in the specially prestigious form of a chryselephantine statue using ivory plaques for the visible parts of the body and gold for the clothes, around a wooden framework. The most famous Greek cult imges were of this type, including the Statue of Zeus at Olympia, and Phidias's Athena Parthenos in the Parthenon in Athens, both colossal statues now completely lost. Fragments of two chryselephantine stutues from Delphi have been excavated. Bronze cult images were less frequent, at least until Hellenistic times.\n\nThe acrolith was another composite form, this time a cost-saving one with a wooden body. A xoanon was a primitive and symbolic wooden image, perhaps comparable to the Hindu lingam; many of these were retained and revered for their antiquity. Many of the Greek statues well-known from Roman marble copies were originally temple cult images, which in some cases, such as the Apollo Barberini, can be credibly identified. A very few actual originals survive, for example the bronze Piraeus Athena (2.35 metres high, including a helmet). The image stood on a base, from the 5th century often carved with reliefs.\n\nThe cult statue was often oriented towards an altar, placed axially in front of the temple. To preserve this connection, the single row of columns often found along the central axis of the \"cella\" in early temples was replaced by two separate rows towards the sides. The central one of the three aisles thereby created was often emphasised as the main one. The dignity of the central aisle of the \"cella\" could be underlined by the use of special elements of design. For example, the oldest known Corinthian capitals are from the \"naoi\" of Doric temples. The impressiveness of the internal aisle could be emphasised further by having a third row of columns along the back, as is the case at the Parthenon and at the temple of Zeus in Nemea. The Parthenon \"cella\", also had another impressive feature, namely two tiers of columns atop each other, as did the temple of Aphaia on Aegina. The temple of Athena at Tegea shows another variation, where the two column rows are indicated by half-columns protruding from the side walls and crowned with Corinthian capitals. An early form of this solution can be seen at Bassae, where the central column of the back portico remains free-standing, while the columns along the sides are in fact semi-columns connected with the walls by curved protrusions.\n\nSome famous temples, notably the Parthenon, the Temple of Zeus at Olympia, and the Temple of Asclepius, Epidaurus, had much of the cella floor occupied by a very shallow pool filled with water (Parthenon) or olive oil at Olympia. All these had chryselephantine images, and Pausanias was perhaps correct to link the Parthenon on with the maintenance of the proper humidity, but they probably increased the light, and perhaps gave it attractive effects of reflections.\n\nIt used to be thought that access to the cella of a Greek temple was limited to the priests, and it was entered only rarely and by other visitors, except perhaps during important festivals or other special occasions. In recent decades this picture has changed, and scholars now stress the variety of local access rules. Pausanias was a gentlemanly traveller of the 2nd-century AD who declares that the special intention of his travels around Greece was to see cult images, and usually managed to do so.\n\nIt was typically necessary to make a sacrifice or gift, and some temples restricted access either to certain days of the year, or by class, race, gender (with either men or women forbidden), or even more tightly. Garlic-eaters were forbidden in one temple, in another women unless they were virgins; restrictions typically arose from local ideas of ritual purity or a perceived whim of the deity. In some places visitors were asked to show they spoke Greek; elsewhere Dorians were not allowed entry. Some temples could only be viewed from the threshold. Some temples are said never to be opened at all. But generally Greeks, including slaves, had a reasonable expectation of being allowed into the cella. Once inside the cella it was possible to pray to or before the cult image, and sometimes to touch it; Cicero saw a bronze image of Heracles with its foot largely worn away by the touch of devotees. Famous cult images such as the Statue of Zeus at Olympia functioned as significant visitor attractions. \n\nSometimes, the divine character of the cult image was stressed even more by removing it further into a separate space within the \"cella\", the \"adyton\". Especially in Magna Graecia, this tradition continued for a long time. Over the decades and centuries, numerous votive offerings could be placed in the \"cella\", giving it a museum-like character (Pausanias 5, 17).\n\nThe back room of the temple, the \"opisthodomos\", usually served as a storage space for cult equipment. It could also hold the temple treasury. For some time, the opisthodomus of the Athenian Parthenon contained the treasury of the Delian League, thus directly protected by the deity. \"Pronaos\" and \"opisthodomos\" were often closed off from the peristasis by wooden barriers or fences.\n\nLike the cella, the \"peristasis\" could serve the display and storage of votives, often placed between the columns. In some cases, votive offerings could also be directly affixed to the columns, as is visible e.g. on the Temple of Hera at Olympia. The \"peristasis\" could also be used for cult processions, or simply as shelter from the elements, a function emphasised by Vitruvius (III 3, 8f).\n\nThe sponsors of Greek temples usually belonged to one of two groups: on the one hand public sponsors, including the bodies and institutions that administrated important sanctuaries; on the other hand influential and affluent private sponsors, especially Hellenistic kings. The financial needs were covered by income from taxes or special levies, or by the sale of raw materials like silver. The collection of donations also occurred, especially for supra-regional sanctuaries like Delphi or Olympia. Hellenistic monarchs could appear as private donors in cities outside their immediate sphere of influence and sponsor public buildings, as exemplified by Antiochos IV, who ordered the rebuilding of the Olympieion at Athens. In such cases, the money came from the private treasury of the donor.\n\nBuilding contracts were advertised after a popular or elected assembly had passed the relevant motion. An appointed committee would choose the winner among the submitted plans. Afterwards, another committee would supervise the building process. Its responsibilities included the advertising and awarding of individual contracts, the practical supervision of the construction, the inspection and acceptance of completed parts, and the paying of wages. The original advert contained all the information necessary to enable a contractor to make a realistic offer for completing the task. Contracts were normally awarded to the competitor offering the most complete service for the cheapest price. In the case of public buildings, the materials were normally provided by the public sponsor, exceptions were clarified in the contract. Contractors were usually only responsible for specific parts of the overall construction, as most businesses were small. Originally, payment was by person and day, but from the 5th century BC onwards, payment by piece or construction stage became common.\n\nThe costs could be immense. For example, surviving receipts show that in the rebuilding of the Artemision of Ephesos, a single column cost 40,000 drachmas. Considering that a worker was paid about two drachmas, that equals nearly 2 million euro (on a modern west European wage scale). Since the overall number of columns required for the design was 120, even this aspect of the building would have caused costs equivalent to those of major projects today (circa 360 million euro).\n\nOne of the criteria by which Greek temples are classified is the Classical order chosen as their basic aesthetic principle. This choice, which was rarely entirely free, but normally determined by tradition and local habit, would lead to widely differing rules of design. According to the three major orders, a basic distinction can be made between the Doric, the Ionic and the Corinthian Temple.\n\nThe modern image of Greek temple architecture is strongly influenced by the numerous reasonably well-preserved temples of the Doric order. Especially the ruins of Southern Italy and Sicily were accessible to western travellers quite early in the development of Classical studies, e.g. the temples at Paestum, Akragas or Segesta, but the Hephaisteion and the Parthenon of Athens also influenced scholarship and Neoclassical architecture from an early point onwards.\n\nThe beginnings of Greek temple construction in the Doric order can be traced to early in the 7th century BC. With the transition to stone architecture around 600 BC, the order was fully developed; from then on, only details were changed, developed and refined, mostly in the context of solving the challenges posed by the design and construction of monumental temples.\n\nApart from early forms, occasionally still with apsidal backs and hipped roofs, the first peripteral temples occur quite soon, before 600 BC. An example is Temple C at Thermos, BC, a \"hekatompedos\", surrounded by a \"peristasis\" of 5 × 15 columns, its cella divided in two aisles by a central row of columns. Its entirely Doric entablature is indicated by painted clay plaques, probably early example of metopes, and clay triglyphs. It appears to be the case that all temples erected within the spheres of influence of Corinth and Argos in the 7th century BC were Doric \"peripteroi\". The earliest stone columns did not display the simple squatness of the high and late Archaic specimens, but rather mirror the slenderness of their wooden predecessors. Already around 600 BC, the demand of viewability from all sides was applied to the Doric temple, leading to the mirroring of the frontal \"pronaos\" by an \"opisthodomos\" at the back. This early demand continued to affect Doric temples especially in the Greek motherland. Neither the Ionic temples, nor the Doric specimens in Magna Graecia followed this principle. The increasing monumentalisation of stone buildings, and the transfer of the wooden roof construction to the level of the \"geison\" removed the fixed relationship between the \"naos\" and the \"peristasis\". This relationship between the axes of walls and columns, almost a matter of course in smaller structures, remained undefined and without fixed rules for nearly a century: the position of the \"naos\" \"floated\" within the \"peristasis\".\n\nThe Heraion of Olympia ( BC) exemplifies the transition from wood to stone construction. This building, initially constructed entirely of wood and mudbrick, had its wooden columns gradually replaced with stone ones over time. Like a museum of Doric columns and Doric capitals, it contains examples of all chronological phases, up to the Roman period. One of the columns in the \"opisthodomos\" remained wooden at least until the 2nd century AD, when Pausanias described it. This 6 by 16 columns temple already called for a solution to the Doric corner conflict. It was achieved through a reduction of the corner intercolumniations the so-called corner contraction. The Heraion is most advanced in regards to the relationship between \"naos\" and \"peristasis\", as it uses the solution that became canonical decades later, a linear axis running along the external faces of the outer \"naos\" walls and through the central axis of the associated columns. Its differentiation between wider intercolumnia on the narrow sides and narrower ones on the long sides was also an influential feature, as was the positioning of the columns within the \"cella\", corresponding with those on the outside, a feature not repeated until the construction of the temple at Bassae 150 years later.\n\nThe oldest Doric temple entirely built of stone is represented by the early 6th century BC Artemis Temple in Kerkyra (modern Corfu). All parts of this building are bulky and heavy, its columns reach a height of barely five times their bottom diameter and were very closely spaced with an intercolumniation of a single column width. The individual members of its Doric orders all differ considerably from the later canon, although all essential Doric features are present. Its ground plan of 8 by 17 columns, probably pseudoperipteral, is unusual.\n\nAmong the Doric temples, the Peisistratid Olympieion at Athens has a special position. Although this building was never completed, its architect apparently attempted to adapt the Ionic \"dipteros\". Column drums built into the later foundations indicate that it was originally planned as a Doric temple. Nonetheless, its ground plan follows the Ionic examples of Samos so closely that it would be hard to reconcile such a solution with a Doric triglyph frieze. After the expulsion of Hippias in 510 BC, work on this structure was stopped: Democratic Athens had no desire to continue a monument of tyrannical self-aggrandisation.\n\nApart from this exception and some examples in the more experimental poleis of Greater Greece, the Classical Doric temple type remained the \"peripteros\". Its perfection was a priority of artistic endeavour throughout the Classical period.\n\nThe canonical solution was found fairly soon by the architect Libon of Elis, who erected the Temple of Zeus at Olympia around 460 BC. With its 6 × 13 columns or 5 × 12 intercolumniations, this temple was designed entirely rationally. Its column bays (axis to axis) measured , a triglyph + metope , a \"mutulus\" plus the adjacent space (\"via\") , the tile width of the marble roof was . Its columns are powerful, with only a slight \"entasis\"; the echinus of the capitals is already nearly linear at 45°. All of the superstructure is affected by curvature. The \"cella\" measures exactly 3 × 9 column distances (axis to axis), its external wall faces are aligned with the axes of the adjacent columns.\n\nThe Classical proportion, 6 × 13 columns, is taken up by numerous temples, e.g. the Temple of Apollo on Delos (), the Temple of Hephaistos at Athens and the temple of Poseidon on Cape Sounion. A slight variation, with 6 × 12 columns or 5 × 11 intercolumniations occurs as frequently.\n\nThe Parthenon maintains the same proportion at a larger scale of 8 × 17 columns, but follows the same principles. In spite of the eight columns on its front, the temple is a pure \"peripteros\", its external \"cella\" walls align with the axes of the 2nd and 7th columns. In other regards, the Parthenon is distinguished as an exceptional example among the mass of Greek \"peripteroi\" by many distinctive aesthetic solutions in detail. For example, the \"antae\" of \"pronaos\" and \"opisthodomos\" are shortened so as to form simple pillars. Instead of longer \"antae\", there are \"prostyle\" colonnades inside the \"peristasis\" on the front and back, reflecting Ionic habits. The execution of the \"naos\", with a western room containing four columns, is also exceptional. The Parthenon's Archaic predecessor already contained such a room. All measurements in the Parthenon are determined by the proportion 4:9. It determines column width to column distance, width to length of the stylobate, and of the \"naos\" without \"antae\". The temple's width to height up to the \"geison\" is determined by the reverse proportion 9:4, the same proportion squared, 81:16, determines temple length to height. All of this mathematical rigour is relaxed and loosened by the optical refinements mentioned above, which affect the whole building, from layer to layer, and element to element. 92 sculpted metopes decorate its triglyph frieze: centauromachy, amazonomachy and gigantomachy are its themes. The external walls of the \"naos\" are crowned with a figural frieze surrounding the entire \"cella\" and depicting the Panathenaic procession as well as the Assembly of the Gods. Large format figures decorate the pediments on the narrow sides. This conjunction of strict principles and elaborate refinements makes the Parthenon the paradigmatic Classical temple. The Temple of Hephaistos at Athens, erected shortly after the Parthenon, uses the same aesthetic and proportional principles, without adhering as closely to the 4:9 proportion.\nIn the 4th century BC, a few Doric temples were erected with 6 × 15 or 6 × 14 columns, probably referring to local Archaic predecessors, e.g. the Temple of Zeus in Nemea and that of Athena in Tegea. Generally, Doric temples followed a tendency to become lighter in their superstructures. Columns became narrower, intercolumniations wider. This shows a growing adjustment to the proportion and weight of Ionic temples, mirrored by a progressive tendency among Ionic temples to become somewhat heavier. In the light of this mutual influence it is not surprising that in the late 4th century BC temple of Zeus at Nemea, the front is emphasised by a \"pronaos\" two intercolumniations deep, while the \"opisthodomos\" is suppressed. Frontality is a key feature of Ionic temples. The emphasis on the \"pronaos\" already occurred in the slightly older temple of Athena at Tegea, but there it was repeated in the \"opisthodomos\". Both temples continued the tendency towards more richly equipped interiors, in both cases with engaged or full columns of the Corinthian order.\n\nThe increasing reduction of the number of columns along the long sides, clearly visible on Ionic temples, is mirrored in Doric constructions. A small temple at Kournó has a peristasis of merely 6 × 7 columns, a stylobate of only 8 × 10 m and corners executed as pilasters towards the front. The peristasis of monumental Doric temples is merely hinted at here; the function as a simple canopy for the shrine of the cult statue is clear.\n\nSicily and Southern Italy hardly participated in these developments. Here, most temple construction took place during the 6th and 5th centuries BC. Later, the Western Greeks showed a pronounced tendency to develop unusual architectural solutions, more or less unthinkable in the mother poleis of their colonies. For example, there are two examples of temples with uneven column numbers at the front, Temple of Hera I at Paestum and Temple of Apollo A at Metapontum. Both temples had fronts of nine columns. \n\nThe technical possibilities of the western Greeks, which had progressed beyond those in the motherland, permitted many deviations. For example, innovations regarding the construction of the entablature developed in the west allowed the spanning of much wider spaces than before, leading to some very deep \"peristaseis\" and broad \"naoi\". The \"peristasis\" often had a depth of two column distances, e.g. at Temple of Hera I, Paestum, and temples C, F and G at Selinus, classifying them as \"pseudodipteroi\". The \"opisthodomos\" only played a subsidiary role, but did occur sometimes, e.g. at the temple of Poseidon in Paestum. Much more frequently, the temples included a separate room at the back end of the cella, entrance to which was usually forbidden, the \"adyton\". In some cases, the \"adyton\" was a free-standing structure within the cella, e.g. temple G in Selinus. If possible, columns inside the cella were avoided, allowing for open roof constructions of up to 13 m width.\nThe largest such structure was the Olympieion of Akragas, an 8 × 17 columns \"peripteros\", but in many regards an absolutely \"un-Greek\" structure, equipped with details such as engaged, figural pillars (Telamons), and a \"peristasis\" partially closed off by walls. With external dimensions of 56 × 113 m, it was the largest Doric building ever to be completed. If the colonies showed remarkable independence and will to experiment in basic terms, they did so even more in terms of detail. For example, the lower surfaces of Doric \"geisa\" could be decorated with coffers instead of \"mutuli\".\n\nAlthough a strong tendency to emphasize the front, e.g. through the addition of ramps or stairs with up to eight steps (at Temple C in Selinus), or a \"pronaos\" depth of 3.5 column distances (temple of Apollo at Syracuse) had been become a key principle of design, this was relativised by the broadening of column distances on the long sides, e.g. Temple of Hera I at Paestum. Only in the colonies could the Doric corner conflict be ignored. If South Italian architects tried to solve it, they used a variety of solutions: broadening of the corner metopes or triglyphs, variation of column distance or metopes. In some cases, different solutions were used on the broad and narrow sides of the same building.\n\nFor the early period, before the 6th century BC, the term Ionic temple can, at best, designate a temple in the Ionian areas of settlement. No fragments of architecture belonging to the Ionic order have been found from this time. Nonetheless, some early temples in the area already indicate the rational system that was to characterise the Ionic system later on, e.g. the Heraion II of Samos. Thus, even at an early point, the axes of the \"cella\" walls aligned with the column axes, whereas in Doric architecture, the external wall faces do so. The early temples also show no concern for the typical Doric feature of viewability from all sides, they regularly lack an \"opisthodomos\"; the \"peripteros\" only became widespread in the area in the 4th century BC. In contrast, from an early point, Ionic temples stress the front by using double porticos. Elongated \"peristaseis\" became a determining element. At the same time, the Ionic temples were characterised by their tendency to use varied and richly decorated surfaces, as well as the widespread use of light-shade contrasts.\n\nAs soon as the Ionic order becomes recognisable in temple architecture, it is increased to monumental sizes. The temple in the Heraion of Samos, erected by Rhoikos around 560 BC, is the first known \"dipteros\", with outside dimensions of 52 × 105 m. A double portico of 8 × 21 columns enclosed the \"naos\", the back even had ten columns. The front used differing column distances, with a wider central opening. In proportion to the bottom diameter, the columns reached three times the height of a Doric counterpart. 40 flutings enriched the complex surface structure of the column shafts. Samian column bases were decorated with a sequence of horizontal flutings, but in spite of this playfulness they weighed 1,500 kg a piece. The capitals of this structure were probably still entirely of wood, as was the entablature. Ionic volute capitals survive from the outer \"peristasis\" of the later rebuilding by Polycrates. The columns of the inner \"peristasis\" had leaf decoration and no volutes.\n\nIn the Cyclades, there were early temples entirely built of marble. Volute capitals have not been found associated with these, but their marble entablatures belonged to the Ionic order.\n\nRoughly beginning with the erection of the older Artemision of Ephesos around 550 BC the quantity of archaeological remains of Ionic temples increases. The Artemision was planned as a \"dipteros\", its architect Theodoros had been one of the builders of the Samian Heraion. With a substructure of 55 × 115 m, the Artemision outscaled all precedents. Its \"cella\" was executed as unroofed internal peristyle courtyard, the so-called \"sekos\". The building was entirely of marble. The temple was considered as one of the seven wonders of the ancient world, which may be justified, considering the efforts involved in its construction. The columns stood on ephesian bases, 36 of them were decorated with life-sized friezes of human figures at the bottom of the shaft, the so-called \"columnae caelatae\". The columns had between 40 and 48 flutings, some of them cut to alternate between a wider and a narrower fluting. The oldest marble architraves of Greek architecture, found at the Artemision, also spanned the widest distances ever achieved in pure stone. The middle architrave block was 8.74 m long and weighed 24 metric tons; it had to be lifted to its final position, 20 m above ground, with a system of pulleys. Like its precedents, the temple used differentiated column widths in the front, and had a higher number of columns at the back. According to ancient sources, Kroisos was one of the sponsors. An inscription referring to his sponsorship was indeed found on one of the columns. The temple was burnt down by Herostratos in 356 BC and reerected soon thereafter. For the replacement, a \"crepidoma\" of ten or more steps was erected. Older Ionic temples normally lacked a specific visible substructure. This emphasised basis had to be balanced out be a heightened entablature, producing not only a visual contrast to, but also a major weight upon the slender columns.\n\nThe temple of Apollo at Didyma near Miletus, begun around 540 BC, was another \"dipteros\" with open internal courtyard. The interior was structured with powerful pilasters, their rhythm reflecting that of the external \"peristasis\". The columns, with 36 flutings, were executed as \"columnae caelatae\" with figural decoration, like those at Ephesos. Construction ceased around 500 BC, but was restarted in 331 BC and finally completed in the 2nd century BC. The enormous costs involved may have been one of the reasons for the long period of construction. The building was the first Ionic temple to follow the Attic tradition of uniform column distances, the frontal diffentiation was not practised any more.\n\nIonic \"peripteroi\" were usually somewhat smaller and shorter in their dimensions than Doric ones. E.g., the temple of Zeus at Labraunda had only 6 × 8 columns, the temple of Aphrodite in Samothrace only 6 × 9. The temple of Athena Polias at Priene, already considered in antiquity as the classical example of an Ionic temple, has partially survived. It was the first monumental peripteros of Ionia, erected between 350 and 330 BC by Pytheos. It is based on a grid (the exact dimensions of its plinths). The temple had 6 × 11 columns, i.e. a proportion of 5:10 or 1:2 intercolumnia. Walls and columns were aligned axially, according to Ionic tradition. The \"peristasis\" was of equal depth on all sides, eliminating the usual emphasis on the front, an \"opisthodomos\", integrated into the back of the cella, is the first proper example in Ionic architecture. The evident rational-mathematical aspect to the design suits Ionic Greek culture, with its strong tradition of natural philosophy. Pytheos was to be of major influence far beyond his lifetime. Hermogenes, who probably came from Priene, was a deserving successor and achieved the final flourish of Ionic architecture around 200 BC.\n\nOne of the projects led by Hermogenes was the Artemision of Magnesia on the Maeander, one of the first \"pseudodipteroi\". other early \"pseudodipteroi\" include the temple of Aphrodite at Messa on Lesbos, belonging to the age of Hermogenes or earlier, the temple of Apollo Sminthaios on Chryse and the temple of Apollo at Alabanda. The arrangement of the \"pseudodipteros\", omitting the interior row of columns while maintaining a \"peristasis\" with the width of two column distances, produces a massively broadened portico, comparable to the contemporaneous hall architecture. The grid of the temple of Magnesia was based on a square. The \"peristasis\" was surrounded by 8 × 15 columns or 7 × 14 intercolumnia, i.e. a 1:2 proportion. The \"naos\" consisted of a \"pronaos\" of four column depths, a four columns \"cella\", and a 2 column \"opisthodomos\". Above the architrave of the \"peristasis\", there was a figural frieze of 137 m length, depicting the amazonomachy. Above it lay the dentil, the Ionic \"geison\" and the \"sima\".\n\nAlthough Athens and Attica were also ethnically Ionian, the Ionic order was of minor importance in this area. The Temple of Nike Aptera on the Acropolis, a small amphiprostyle temple completed around 420 BC, with Ionic columns on plinthless Attic bases, a triple-layered architrave and a figural frieze, but without the typical Ionic dentil, is notable. The east and north halls of the Erechtheion, completed in 406 BC, follow the same succession of elements.\n\nAn innovative Ionic temple was that of Asklepios in Epidaurus, one of the first of the \"pseudoperipteros\" type. This small ionic prostyle temple had engaged columns along the sides and back, the \"peristasis\" was thus reduced to a mere hint of a full portico facade.\n\nThere is very little evidence of Ionic temples in Magna Graecia. One of the few exceptions is the early Classical Temple D, an 8 × 20 columns peripteros, at Metapontum. Its architect combined the dentil, typical of Asia Minor, with an Attic frieze, thus proving that the colonies were quite capable of partaking in the developments of the motherland. A small Ionic Hellenistic prostyle temple was found on the Poggetto San Nicola at Agrigento.\n\nA Ionic temple with a design very similar with that of a Greek Temple is known from Jandial in the northwestern Indian subcontinent, today Pakistan. The Temple is considered as a semi-Classical temple. Its design is essentially that of a Greek Temple, with a naos, pronaos and an opisthodomos at the back. Two Ionic columns at the front are framed by two anta walls as in a Greek distyle in antis layout. It seems that the temple had an outside wall with windows or doorways, in a layout similar to that of a Greek encircling row of columns (peripteral design). It has been called \"the most Hellenic structure yet found on Indian soil\".\n\nThe youngest of the three Classical Greek orders, the Corinthian order came to be used for the external design of Greek temples quite late. After it had proved its adequacy, e.g. on a mausoleum of at modern-day Belevi (near Ephesos), it appears to have found increasing popularity in the 2nd half of the 3rd century BC. Early examples probably include the Serapeum of Alexandria and a temple at Hermopolis Magna, both erected by Ptolemaios III. A small temple of Athena Limnastis at Messene, definitely Corinthian, is only attested through drawings by early travellers and very scarce fragments. It probably dates to the late 3rd century BC.\n\nThe first dateable and well-preserved presence of the Corinthian temple is the Hellenistic rebuilding of the Olympieion of Athens, planned and started between 175 and 146 BC. This mighty \"dipteros\" with its 110 × 44 m substructure and 8 × 20 columns was to be one of the largest Corinthian temples ever. Donated by Antiochus IV Epiphanes, it combined all elements of the Asian/Ionic order with the Corinthian capital. Its Asian elements and its conception as a \"dipteros\" made the temple an exception in Athens.\n\nAround the middle of the 2nd century BC, a 6 × 12 columns Corinthian peripteros was built in Olba-Diokaisarea in Rugged Cilicia. Its columns, mostly still upright, stand on Attic bases without plinths, exceptional for the period. The 24 flutings of the columns are only indicated by facets in the lower third. Each of the Corinthian capitals is made of three separate parts, an exceptional form. The entablature of the temple was probably in the Doric order, as is suggested by fragments of \"mutuli\" scattered among the ruins. All of these details suggest an Alexandrian workshop, since Alexandria showed the greatest tendency to combine Doric entablatures with Corinthian capitals and to do without the plinth under Attic bases.\n\nA further plan option is shown by the temple of Hekate at Lagina, a small \"pseudoperipteros\" of 8 × 11 columns. Its architectural members are entirely in keeping with the Asian/Ionic canon. Its distinctive feature, a rich figural frieze, makes this building, erected around 100 BC, an architectural gem. Further late Greek temples in the Corinthian order are known e.g. at Mylasa and, on the middle gymnasium terrace at Pergamon.\n\nThe few Greek temples in the Corinthian order are almost always exceptional in form or ground plan and are initially usually an expression of royal patronage. The Corinthian order permitted a considerable increase of the material and technical effort invested in a building, which made its use attractive for the purposes of royals self-aggrandisement. The demise of the Hellenistic monarchies and the increasing power of Rome and her allies placed mercantile elites and sanctuary administrations in the positions of building sponsors. The construction of Corinthian temples became a typical expression of self-confidence and independence. As an element of Roman architecture, the Corinthian temple came to be widely distributed in all of the Graeco-Roman world, especially in Asia Minor, until the late Imperial period.\n\nThough extremely solidly built, apart from the roof, relatively few Greek temples have left very significant remains; these are often those which were converted to other uses such as churches or mosques. There are many where the platforms are reasonably complete, and some round drum elements of the columns, which were harder for later builders to re-use. The somewhat controversial practice of anastylosis, or re-erecting fallen materials, has sometimes been used. The rectangular wall blocks have usually been carried off for re-use, and some buildings have been destroyed or weakened merely to get the bronze pins linking blocks. Marble sculpture has often been removed to make lime for mortar, and any that has survived has usually been removed to a museum, not always a local one. \n\nThe most complete remains are concentrated in Athens and southern Italy; several are described in more detail above, under their orders. Athens has the Parthenon and the even better preserved Doric Temple of Hephaestus, both once churches, as well two small temples on the Acropolis and a corner of the large Corinthian Temple of Olympian Zeus. The small temple of Apollo Epicurius at Bassae survived in a rural location with most of its columns and main architrave blocks in place, amid a jumble of fallen stone. From this British antiquaries extracted the Bassae Frieze in 1812, which was soon in the British Museum. \n\nIn Italy Paestum, some way south of Naples near what was once the northern limit of Magna Graecia (Greek Italy), has three early Doric temples in a row, amid the mostly Roman ruins of the city. In Sicily the Valle dei Templi near Agrigento has an even larger group, with the main structure of the Temple of Concordia especially well-preserved. Along the coast Selinunte was destroyed about 250 BC by the Carthaginians and has the tumbled ruins of five temples, of which one has been rebuilt from the original material. Not far away, Segesta has a single Doric temple whose main structure is largely intact.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3025935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3025935", "title": "Antidoron", "text": "Antidoron\n\nThe antidoron (, \"\") is ordinary leavened bread which is blessed but not consecrated and distributed in Eastern Orthodox Churches and Eastern Catholic Churches that use the Byzantine Rite. It comes from the remains of the loaves of bread (prosphora) from which portions are cut for consecration as the Eucharist during the Divine Liturgy. The word Ἀντίδωρον means \"instead of gifts\".\n\nIn the Orthodox Church, blessed antidoron is distributed after every Divine Liturgy. During the Prothesis (Liturgy of Preparation, at which the wine and bread are prepared on the Table of Oblation), the priest will bless each prosphoron as he takes it up to remove particles and place them on the diskos (paten). The remainder of the prosphora is cut into fragments and kept aside in a bowl or salver. In some jurisdictions it is the custom at the end of the Anaphora for the altar server to hand the bowl of antidoron to the priest who will make the Sign of the Cross with it over the chalice and diskos during the hymn, \"It is Truly Meet\".\n\nSince the Eucharist is essentially a meal, in the Russian Orthodox tradition some of the antidoron is placed on a tray together with ordinary wine and is consumed by the communicants immediately after they receive Holy Communion.\n\nAt the conclusion of the liturgy, the antidoron is distributed to the faithful as they come up to kiss the blessing cross. Antidoron is not considered a sacrament and is explicitly not consecrated during the Eucharist. Therefore, non-Orthodox present at the liturgy, who are not admitted to partake of the consecrated bread and wine, are often encouraged to receive the antidoron as an expression of Christian fellowship and love.\n\nBecause the antidoron is blessed, some jurisdictions and customs mandate that it be consumed only after fasting. The canonical regulations of the Eastern Orthodox Church state that the antidoron should be consumed before leaving the church, and that it should not be distributed to unbelievers or to persons undergoing penance before absolution, but variances are allowed. For instance, it is the custom in many Orthodox parishes to distribute the antidoron to visitors and catechumens as a sign of fellowship, or to bring a few pieces home to a relative who could not attend the liturgy.\n\nOn Bright Saturday in place of (or in addition to) the normal antidoron, the Paschal Artos is cut up and distributed at the end of the liturgy.\n\nIn the Greek Catholic (Byzantine) churches of Austria and Hungary, the antidoron is presently given only on rare occasions during the year, chiefly on the Bright Saturday (Saturday in Easter week); while among the Greek (Roman) Catholics of Italy and Sicily it is usually given only on Holy Thursday, the Feast of the Assumption, that of Saint Nicolas of Myra, and at certain week-day services in Lent; although according to some local customs it is given on other days. In other Eastern Catholic churches of the Byzantine Rite it is distributed as in the Orthodox churches.\n\nThe earliest historical reference to this custom are in fact found in the Western Church. It is mentioned in the 118th letter of St. Augustine to Januarius (now known as the 54th letter in the new order), and in the canons of a local council in Gaul in the seventh century. Originally it was a substitute, or solatium for such of the faithful as were not properly prepared to receive Holy Communion or were unable to get to the eucharistic sacrifice. If they could not partake of the sacrament, for instance because of not having fulfilled the obligatory fast or for being in a state of mortal sin, they had the consolation of partaking of the non-consecrated liturgical bread which had been blessed and from which the portions for the consecration had been taken.\n\nIn the Eastern Church, mention of the antidoron began to appear about the ninth and tenth centuries. Germanus of Constantinople is the earliest Eastern author to mention it in his treatise, \"The Explanation of the Liturgy\", about the ninth century. Subsequent to him many writers of the Eastern Church (Balsamon, Colina, Pachemeros) have written on the custom of giving the antidoron.\n\nWhile the practice of blessing and distributing antidoron still continues in the East, the practice was largely abandoned by the Western Church, and now only survives in the Roman Rite in the \"\" given in French churches and cathedrals after High Mass, as well as in certain churches of Québec, and occasionally in Italy, on certain feasts (e.g. of Saint Hubert, Saint Anthony of Padua). A similar custom also survives among the Syrian Christians (Christians of Saint Thomas) of the Malabar coast in India.\n\n"}
{"id": "12340514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12340514", "title": "Baptist beliefs", "text": "Baptist beliefs\n\nBaptists do not have a central governing authority, and Baptist beliefs are not completely consistent from one Baptist church to another. However, Baptists do hold some common beliefs among almost all Baptist churches.\n\nThese would include beliefs about one God, the virgin birth, the impeccability, miracles, vicarious atoning death, burial and bodily resurrection of Christ, the need for salvation (although the understanding of means for achieving it may differ at times), divine grace, the Church, the Kingdom of God, last things (Jesus Christ will return personally and visibly in glory to the earth; the dead will be raised; and Christ will judge everyone in righteousness), evangelism and missions.\n\nThe following acrostic acronym, spelling , summarizes Baptists' distinguishing beliefs:\n\nBaptists practice \"believer's baptism\" and the Lord's Supper (communion) as the two acts of faith-obedience to the example and commands given by Christ for Christians (Matthew 28:19; 1 Corinthians 11:23-26). Most Baptists call them \"ordinances\" (meaning \"obedience to a command that Christ has given us\") instead of \"sacraments\" (activities God uses to impart salvation or a means of grace to the participant). Therefore, historic Baptist theology considers that no saving grace is conveyed by either ordinance and that original sin is not washed away in baptism. Baptists have traditionally believed that they are symbols.\n\nSome Primitive Baptists and Separate Baptists in Christ also practice foot washing as an ordinance.\n\nMost Baptists hold their services and worship on Sunday. However, there is a group known as the Seventh Day Baptists whose origins are derived from Anabaptism and the pre-Reformation. Seventh Day Baptists gather and worship on the seventh day of the week on Saturday. A large portion of Seventh Day Baptists adopted the teachings of the Sabbath, which led to the formation of the Seventh-day Adventist Church.\n\nBaptists are also viewed as the descendants of the Puritans who were shaped by the Anabaptists, thus the Baptist religion were considered an outcome of the Reformation. In the early 17th century, those individuals who called themselves Baptists broke apart from the Church of England. Some notable Puritan separatists included John Smyth and Thomas Helwys who were acknowledged as key founders of the Baptist denomination.\n\nFurthermore, some Baptists (notably Landmarkians) hold to a belief in perpetuity, which embraces the notion that the Baptist belief existed since the time of Christ until today as the Church of Christ founded in Jerusalem was Baptist. Those who believe in perpetuity view the Baptist belief as not being a critical aspect of the Protestant Reformation.\n\n"}
{"id": "4789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4789", "title": "Behistun Inscription", "text": "Behistun Inscription\n\nThe Behistun Inscription (also Bisotun, Bistun or Bisutun; , Old Persian: Bagastana, meaning \"the place of god\") is a multilingual inscription and large rock relief on a cliff at Mount Behistun in the Kermanshah Province of Iran, near the city of Kermanshah in western Iran. It was crucial to the decipherment of cuneiform script.\n\nAuthored by Darius the Great sometime between his coronation as king of the Persian Empire in the summer of 522 BC and his death in autumn of 486 BC, the inscription begins with a brief autobiography of Darius, including his ancestry and lineage. Later in the inscription, Darius provides a lengthy sequence of events following the deaths of Cyrus the Great and Cambyses II in which he fought nineteen battles in a period of one year (ending in December 521 BC) to put down multiple rebellions throughout the Persian Empire. The inscription states in detail that the rebellions, which had resulted from the deaths of Cyrus the Great and his son Cambyses II, were orchestrated by several impostors and their co-conspirators in various cities throughout the empire, each of whom falsely proclaimed kinghood during the upheaval following Cyrus's death.\n\nDarius the Great proclaimed himself victorious in all battles during the period of upheaval, attributing his success to the \"grace of Ahura Mazda\". The inscription includes three versions of the same text, written in three different cuneiform script languages: Old Persian, Elamite, and Babylonian (a variety of Akkadian). The inscription is to cuneiform what the Rosetta Stone is to Egyptian hieroglyphs: the document most crucial in the decipherment of a previously lost script.\n\nThe inscription is approximately 15 metres high by 25 metres wide and 100 metres up a limestone cliff from an ancient road connecting the capitals of Babylonia and Media (Babylon and Ecbatana, respectively). The Old Persian text contains 414 lines in five columns; the Elamite text includes 593 lines in eight columns, and the Babylonian text is in 112 lines. The inscription was illustrated by a life-sized bas-relief of Darius I, the Great, holding a bow as a sign of kingship, with his left foot on the chest of a figure lying on his back before him. The supine figure is reputed to be the pretender Gaumata. Darius is attended to the left by two servants, and nine one-meter figures stand to the right, with hands tied and rope around their necks, representing conquered peoples. A Faravahar floats above, giving its blessing to the king. One figure appears to have been added after the others were completed, as was Darius's beard, which is a separate block of stone attached with iron pins and lead.\n\nAfter the fall of the Persian Empire's Achaemenid Dynasty and its successors, and the lapse of Old Persian cuneiform writing into disuse, the nature of the inscription was forgotten, and fanciful explanations became the norm. For centuries, instead of being attributed to Darius I, the Great, it was believed to be from the reign of Khosrau II of Persia—one of the last Sassanid kings, who lived over 1000 years after the time of Darius I.\n\nThe inscription is mentioned by Ctesias of Cnidus, who noted its existence some time around 400 BC and mentioned a well and a garden beneath the inscription. He incorrectly concluded that the inscription had been dedicated \"by Queen Semiramis of Babylon to Zeus\". Tacitus also mentions it and includes a description of some of the long-lost ancillary monuments at the base of the cliff, including an altar to \"Herakles\". What has been recovered of them, including a statue dedicated in 148 BC, is consistent with Tacitus's description. Diodorus also writes of \"Bagistanon\" and claims it was inscribed by Semiramis.\n\nA legend began around Mount Behistun (Bisotun), as written about by the Persian poet and writer Ferdowsi in his \"Shahnameh\" (\"Book of Kings\") , about a man named Farhad, who was a lover of King Khosrow's wife, Shirin. The legend states that, exiled for his transgression, Farhad was given the task of cutting away the mountain to find water; if he succeeded, he would be given permission to marry Shirin. After many years and the removal of half the mountain, he did find water, but was informed by Khosrow that Shirin had died. He went mad, threw his axe down the hill, kissed the ground and died. It is told in the book of Khosrow and Shirin that his axe was made out of a pomegranate tree, and, where he threw the axe, a pomegranate tree grew with fruit that would cure the ill. Shirin was not dead, according to the story, and mourned upon hearing the news.\n\nIn 1598, the Englishman Robert Sherley saw the inscription during a diplomatic mission to Persia on behalf of Austria, and brought it to the attention of Western European scholars. His party incorrectly came to the conclusion that it was Christian in origin. French General Gardanne thought it showed \"Christ and his twelve apostles\", and Sir Robert Ker Porter thought it represented the Lost Tribes of Israel and Shalmaneser of Assyria. Italian explorer Pietro della Valle visited the inscription in the course of a pilgrimage in around 1621.\n\nGerman surveyor Carsten Niebuhr visited in around 1764 for Frederick V of Denmark, publishing a copy of the inscription in the account of his journeys in 1778. Niebuhr's transcriptions were used by Georg Friedrich Grotefend and others in their efforts to decipher the Old Persian cuneiform script. Grotefend had deciphered ten of the 37 symbols of Old Persian by 1802, after realizing that unlike the Semitic cuneiform scripts, Old Persian text is alphabetic and each word is separated by a vertical slanted symbol.\n\nThe Old Persian text was copied and deciphered before recovery and copying of the Elamite and Babylonian inscriptions had even been attempted, which proved to be a good deciphering strategy, since Old Persian script was easier to study due to its alphabetic nature and because the language it represents had naturally evolved via Middle Persian to the living modern Persian language dialects, and was also related to the Avestan language, used in the Zoroastrian book the \"Avesta\".\n\nIn 1835, Sir Henry Rawlinson, an officer of the British East India Company army assigned to the forces of the Shah of Iran, began studying the inscription in earnest. As the town of Bisotun's name was anglicized as \"Behistun\" at this time, the monument became known as the \"Behistun Inscription\". Despite its relative inaccessibility, Rawlinson was able to scale the cliff with the help of a local boy and copy the Old Persian inscription. The Elamite was across a chasm, and the Babylonian four meters above; both were beyond easy reach and were left for later.\n\nWith the Persian text, and with about a third of the syllabary made available to him by the work of Georg Friedrich Grotefend, Rawlinson set to work on deciphering the text. The first section of this text contained a list of the same Persian kings found in Herodotus but in their original Persian forms as opposed to Herodotus's Greek transliterations; for example Darius is given as the original \"Dâryavuš\" instead of the Hellenized \"Δαρειος\". By matching the names and the characters, Rawlinson deciphered the type of cuneiform used for Old Persian by 1838 and presented his results to the Royal Asiatic Society in London and the Société Asiatique in Paris.\n\nIn the interim, Rawlinson spent a brief tour of duty in Afghanistan, returning to the site in 1843. He first crossed a chasm between the Persian and Elamite scripts by bridging the gap with planks, subsequently copying the Elamite inscription. He found an enterprising local boy to climb up a crack in the cliff and suspend ropes across the Babylonian writing, so that papier-mâché casts of the inscriptions could be taken. Rawlinson, along with several other scholars, most notably Edward Hincks, Julius Oppert, William Henry Fox Talbot, and Edwin Norris, either working separately or in collaboration, eventually deciphered these inscriptions, leading eventually to the ability to read them completely.\n\nThe translation of the Old Persian sections of the Behistun Inscription paved the way to the subsequent ability to decipher the Elamite and Babylonian parts of the text, which greatly promoted the development of modern Assyriology.\n\nThe site was visited by the American linguist A. V. Williams Jackson in 1903. Later expeditions, in 1904 sponsored by the British Museum and led by Leonard William King and Reginald Campbell Thompson and in 1948 by George G. Cameron of the University of Michigan, obtained photographs, casts and more accurate transcriptions of the texts, including passages that were not copied by Rawlinson.\nIt also became apparent that rainwater had dissolved some areas of the limestone in which the text was inscribed, while leaving new deposits of limestone over other areas, covering the text.\n\nIn 1938, the inscription became of interest to the Nazi German think tank Ahnenerbe, although research plans were cancelled due to the onset of World War II.\n\nThe monument later suffered some damage from Allied soldiers using it for target practice in World War II, and during the Anglo-Soviet invasion of Iran.\n\nIn 1999, Iranian archeologists began the documentation and assessment of damages to the site incurred during the 20th century. Malieh Mehdiabadi, who was project manager for the effort, described a photogrammetric process by which two-dimensional photos were taken of the inscriptions using two cameras and later transmuted into 3-D images.\n\nIn recent years, Iranian archaeologists have been undertaking conservation works. The site became a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2006.\n\nIn 2012, the Bisotun Cultural Heritage Center organized an international effort to re-examine the inscription.\n\nThe site covers an area of 116 hectares. Archeological evidence indicates that this region became a human shelter 40,000 years ago. There are 18 historical monuments other than the inscription of Darius the Great in the Behistun complex that have been registered in the Iranian national list of historical sites. Some of them are:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57490880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57490880", "title": "Bell Church", "text": "Bell Church\n\nThe Bell Church (Chinese: 钟教; Zhongjiao, ) is a Chinese Filipino indigenous religious organization based in La Trinidad, Benguet, Philippines. It is led Elias Ng, the Spiritual Leader and Head Administrator of the Bell Church.\n\nThe Bell Church was founded on August 4, 1960 in Benguet by a Chinese immigrants from Canton, China (now Guangzhou) led by Ng Pee. They were devotees of the Buddhist monk Ji Gong.\n\nIn 1954, he first preached in a dining hall of a restaurant but eventually transferred the place of worship to his residence along the Kilometer 6 mark in La Trinidad, Benguet due to increasing number of devotees. Then known as the \"Chinese Buddhist Temple\", the temple's membership is composed of primarily ethnic Chinese farmers. Membership continued to grow that the temple had to moved again to its present site along the Kilometer 3 mark in the 1960s and has since then became known as the \"Bell Church\". With support from the local Chinese community, the house in the current site was converted to a temple.\n\nThe Bell Church considers itself as a religion with ecumenical and interfaith in orientation.\n\nThe Bell Church has five patron saints which represents the religions of Taoism, Buddhism, Christianity, Islam, and Confucianism. Its members pray to these saints. According to the group the patron saints are an acknowledgement that the Bell Church temples are open to prayers made by anyone. These faiths are major religions in China.\n\nThe philosophy of the group revolves around the bell which it says represents unity. The group believes that religions are \"only differences in beliefs\" and advocates people regardless of religion to live in harmony by disregarding these difference.\n\nOne of the basic principles of the Bell Church is the law of karma and members and devotees are urged to \"live morally upright, always help others in need, attend Mass, practice other virtues\" which is said to bring good karma.\n\nThe Bell Church organization designated its temple in Benguet as its headquarters. It later established other temples or chapters in other parts of the Philippines and abroad. They maintain chapters in Cagayan de Oro, Dagupan, La Loma (Quezon City), Manila, Dumaguete, Davao City, Cotabato City, and Zamboanga City. They also have a chapter in Hong Kong and San Francisco, United States.These chapters are all referred as \"Bell Church\".\n"}
{"id": "5709059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5709059", "title": "Bhalki", "text": "Bhalki\n\nBhalki is a City and Taluka in Bidar district in the state of Karnataka, India.\n\nFirst mention of the town was made as \"Bhallunke\" in the vachanas of 12th century sharanas. The sharana Kumbara Gundaiah was from Bhalki who was part of Bhakthi movement.\n\nBhalki's importance in the 1857 war is played out at the very end of the war, when one of Tatya Tope's followers is arrested and tried by the Nizam, in 1867. This person was Madho Rao, alias Rama Rao, the nephew of Shrimant Shahu Chatrapati, the Maharaja of Satara. He was also known as \"Jung Bahadur\", as referred by Sir Richard Temple in his diaries. During a search, officials discovered that Jung Bahadur carried several papers in English and Marathi, translation of a deed of agreement and a seal saying he was the `Chatrapati of Satara'.\n\nJung Bahadur raised an army of over 1500 people in and around the forests of Bhalki, spending up to 20,000 Rupees. and gave 200 Rupees to his follower Deva Rao to recruit 500 soldiers. A jamadar got a monthly salary of 40 Rupees, a sepoy 30 Rupees and a sawar 10 Rupees. He recruited soldiers in the villages issuing them \"Kaulnamas\" or appointment letters, in which he asked young men to join him in the task of \"murdering the British and regaining the lost glory of the Royal family of Satara\". Jung Bahadur and his followers moved on foot from village to village, disguised as mendicants.\n\nHe caused great damage to the British government, and captured a cantonment area called Ashti in Bidar district. He and his main followers were eventually arrested by two officers of the British resident in Hyderabad state. Their trial however, was conducted by the Nizam’s courts. The Magistrate of the criminal court, Moulvi Nasrullah Khan, completed the trial in less than a month, charging them with \"trying to bring about insurrection against the empire\".\n\nJung Bahadur, Bheem Rao, Balakishtayya and Vithoba were sentenced to transportation to life. Jung Bahadur is said to have spent his last days in the Hyderabad prison, where he died. His followers Yeshwanta and Jehangir Ali were sentenced to 14 years of imprisonment. Others like Eshwanna Naikwadi and Vir Peddappa were given minor punishments.\n\nBhalki is located at . It has an average elevation of 587 metres (1925 feet).\n\n India census, Bhalki town has a population of 40,333. Bhalki has literacy rate of 80.34%, higher than the state average of 75.36%; with 87.52% of the males and 72.72% of the females literate. 12.12% of the population is under 6 years of age. Female Sex Ratio is of 945 against state average of 973. Child Sex Ratio in Bhalki is around 974 compared to Karnataka state average of 948. Kannada language is spoken by the majority of the population. Marathi & Urdu are also spoken by some.\n\nBhatambra is famous for the 12th century fort located in the village. The fort is in good condition. Bhatambra is 12 km from Bhalki.\n\nBhalki is 40 km from District headquarters Bidar. It is well connected by road to major towns in Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra.\nBhalki also has a railway station in the town.\nBhalki is the center place in district which equally connect to other talukas(Bidar,Basavakalyan,aurad B,Humnabad) including udgir, and shahajani aurad in Maharashtra\n\n"}
{"id": "30862545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30862545", "title": "Bêlit", "text": "Bêlit\n\nBêlit is a form of the Akkadian language word \"beltu\" or \"beltum\" (meaning \"lady\", \"mistress\") as used in noun compounds; it appears in titles of goddesses, such as \"bêlit-ili\" \"lady of the gods\", an Akkadian title of Ninhursag. The word \"bêlit\" appears in Greek form as Beltis (Βελτις), considered to be the name of the wife of the god Bêl.\n\n"}
{"id": "1398384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1398384", "title": "Calea ternifolia", "text": "Calea ternifolia\n\nCalea ternifolia (syn. \"Calea zacatechichi\") is a species of flowering plant in the aster family, Asteraceae. It is native to Mexico and Central America. Its English language common names include bitter-grass, Mexican calea, and dream herb.\n\nIt is used in traditional medicine and ritual in its native range.\n\nIn Mexico the plant is used as an herbal remedy for dysentery and fever. The Zoque Popoluca people call the plant \"tam huñi\" (\"bitter gum\") and use it to treat diarrhea and asthma, and the Mixe people know it as \"poop taam ujts\" (\"white bitter herb\") and use it for stomachache and fever.\n\nThe Chontal people of Oaxaca reportedly use the plant, known locally as \"thle-pela-kano\", during divination. Isolated reports describe rituals that involve smoking a plant believed to be this species, drinking it as a tea, and placing it under a pillow to induce divinatory dreams due to its properties as an oneirogen. \"Zacatechichi\", the former species name, is a Nahuatl word meaning \"bitter grass\". Users take the plant to help them remember their dreams; known side effects include nausea and vomiting related to the taste and mild-to-severe allergic reaction.\n\nWhile quite bitter if brewed in hot water, the bitterness can be considerably masked by brewing with Osmanthus flowers, which have a compatible scent profile.\n\nChemical compounds isolated from this species include flavones such as acacetin and sesquiterpene lactones such as germacranolides. The sesquiterpenes known as caleicines and caleochromenes may be active in its effects on sleep.\n\nWhile it is not a controlled substance under federal law in the United States, some states have considered it individually. Louisiana State Act 159 specifies that it is illegal to possess if it is intended for human consumption, but not if they are intended for ornamental or landscaping use. Tennessee proposed a bill that would have made this and many other plants classified as hallucinogenic illegal, but when the bill was passed only \"Salvia divinorum\" was banned.\n\nThis plant was banned in Poland in March 2009.\n"}
{"id": "2980468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2980468", "title": "Center for Swedenborgian Studies", "text": "Center for Swedenborgian Studies\n\nThe Center for Swedenborgian Studies (formerly called the New Church Theological School or NCTS and also previously known as the Swedenborgian House of Studies) is the seminary of the Swedenborgian Church of North America at the Graduate Theological Union in Berkeley, California. It offers a Certificate in Swedenborgian Studies and a Certificate in Swedenborgian Ministry Studies. It also functions as a think-tank for Swedenborgian studies globally.\n\nThe Center for Swedenborgian Studies or CSS (formerly called New Church Theological School or NCTS and also previously known as Swedenborgian House of Studies) is the theological training institution for the Swedenborgian Church of North America.\n\nThe New Church Theological School (NCTS) was located on the northern edge of Harvard College's campus in Cambridge, MA. In the mid 1960s it sold its building to Harvard University (for the Graduate School of Design) and relocated to 48 Sargent Street in Newton, MA. While it was housed in Newton, the school was known as the \"Swedenborg School of Religion\". After 35 years, the school relocated to the campus of Pacific School of Religion (PSR). From 2001-2015, the NCTS (formerly dba Swedenborg School of Religion) partnered with PSR.\n\nIn 2015 the school was renamed the Center for Swedenborgian Studies and it affiliated with the Graduate Theological Union (GTU). It continues to be physically located at and share faculty with PSR and PSR itself is one of the long-time member schools of the GTU. The CSS also offers studies in New Religious Movements, Western esotericism, and mysticism.\n\nOne of the reasons the school physically moved to PSR/GTU was that it could then partner locally with the well-established schools of the GTU that offered myriad courses and degrees especially including MDiv (Masters of Divinity) degrees. However the CSS also offers distance learning options allowing students to attend accredited schools throughout North America for academic and professional certification. The CSS can then focus its energy on Swedenborgian Studies scholarship and training.\n\nCertificate of Swedenborgian Studies (Academic): The CSS is a 6-course certificate program for current GTU M.A. and PhD students. It is also available to M.Div. students currently at one of the GTU member schools or non-GTU scholars who are not preparing for a vocation in the Swedenborgian Church.\n\nCertificate of Swedenborgian Ministries Studies (Vocational): The CSMS comprises 21 units of coursework (or 7 3-unit courses), of which:\n\n\nThe regular faculty are responsible for the Swedenborgian course offerings, but also partner with the faculty of the Graduate Theological Union and Pacific School of Religion to teach core curriculum classes to the larger student body.\n\n"}
{"id": "57677450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57677450", "title": "Chezib of Judah", "text": "Chezib of Judah\n\nChezib, also known as Achziv of Judah (), is a biblical place-name associated with the birth of Judah's son, Shelah , corresponding to the \"Achziv\" of the Book of Joshua (15:44), a town located in the low lying hills of the plain of Judah, known as the Shefela. In \"I Chronicles 4:22\", the town is rendered as \"Chozeba\". The place is now a ruin.\n\nHistorical geographers identify the site as \"Khirbet a-Sheikh Ghazi\", the old name preserved in the name of a nearby spring \"ʻAin el-Kezbeh\", a place in the Elah Valley near Moshav Aviezer, directly south of Bayt Nattif. Its name is allegedly derived from Shelah’s son, Cozeba, who is mentioned in I Chronicles (4:22). Formerly, the site had tentatively been identified with \"Tell el-Beide\", a site now known as \"Tell Libnin\", while others placed its location at one of the unidentified ruins near \"Khirbet Qila\" and \"Khirbet Beit Nesib\". Like many of the ruins of ancient cities in Israel, the site has no very well-defined characteristics, but appears to be spread over a considerable area.\n\nThe name \"Chezib\", etymologically, is derived from the word \"disappointment,\" \"delusion,\" \"failing\" or \"lying.\" In the Aramaic Targum of Pseudo-Yonathan ben Uzziel on Gen. 38:5, as well as in Genesis Rabba (§85), Chezib is rendered as \"Paskath\", said to be the Aramaic equivalent of Chezib (\"failing\").\n\nThe Lachish Letters makes mention of a certain \"Beit Achzi[b]\" in the Shefelah, the lower stratum of the Judean range, believed to be the Chezib of Judah. Eusebius, in his \"Onomasticon\", notes of the place that \"there the sons of Judah were born; now a desolate place, shown in the territory of Eleutheropolis near Adullam.\" \n\nIn classical Hebrew literature, the town is mentioned as being confederate with Pekah the son of Remaliah, the king of the northern tribes of Israel, for which it incurs the divine wrath of the prophet Micah, who uses a play on words to denounce the towns of Maresha, Achzib, and Adullam. Israelite potters are said to have occupied the site during the preëxilic, late First Temple period. The site is shown in the 1880 map published by Conder & Kitchener's \"Survey of Western Palestine\". Today, the site has mostly been planted over with pine trees by the Jewish National Fund (\"Keren Kayemet\").\n\nThe site is strewn with the remains of razed buildings, and thick walls that are partially standing and which were constructed of fieldstones. Within the environs of the site is a burial chamber built in the face of a cliff, containing six \"kokîm\" (niches) and which, according to C.R. Conder, signifies a Jewish burial place, dating back to a period before the nation became subject to the Western powers of Greece and Rome. The site has revealed archaeological relics dating back to the Iron Age, until as late as the Byzantine period.\n\n"}
{"id": "79938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79938", "title": "Crinisus", "text": "Crinisus\n\nCrinisus or Crimisus was a Sicilian river god in Roman mythology. According to Virgil's \"Aeneid\" (5.38) and Hyginus' \"Fabulae\" (273), Crinisus was the father of Acestes by a Dardanian woman. There is much more information for the life of Acestes than for his 'father', Crinisus. Note that the spelling varies between the original Greek and subsequent Roman renderings.\n\nThe Battle of the Crimissus, fought at a crossing of this river, was an important turning point in the ancient world between Carthage and the Greek City State of Syracuse in 339 BC.\n"}
{"id": "23579289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23579289", "title": "Dree Festival", "text": "Dree Festival\n\nThe Apatanis, who inhabit a tranquil pine clad valley called Ziro at the core of Lower Subansiri District of Arunachal Pradesh, are famous for their unique practice of wet rice cultivation. They are also known for their sustainable agricultural practices and the agricultural cycles govern their everyday lives. The agricultural festival of Dree is the highlight in this cycle.\n\nIn the beginning, humans wandered around foraging for food. It was Anẁ̀ Donw and Abba Lwbo who began cultivation in the fertile lands of Wpyo supuñ. Thus Anẁ̀̀ Donw was the first human to start a settled life while Abba Lwbo was the first to start cultivation.\n\nWith the first batch of spades – Turú dipe and the first batch of machetes – Twgyó ilyo’, bushes and vegetations were cleared from large tracts of land. Invoking the winds from the north and the south, the leavings were burnt. Next, the soil was prepared for sowing.\n\nPlots of agriculture were ready, but no paddy seeds were available. So, the search for the seeds begun. In the process, Anẁ̀ Donw and Abba Lwbo reached Murtú Lembyañ from where they obtained the seeds of pyapiñ and pyare varieties of paddy along with the seeds of cucumber and corns from Murtú Yariñ. Something was still lacking and the search continued. When Anẁ̀ Donw and Abba Lwbo looked into the stomach of the wild rats it was full of grasses and herbs while that of the wild boar was full of salyó and sankhe’. However, it was in the stomach of the dilyañ kubu – the field rat that they found the seeds of empu and elañ varieties of paddy. They trailed the field rat with the help of a dog and finally located the source of the seeds. At a place called Hirẃ Lyandiñ, the paddy seeds were found stuck high above on the branches of Hirẃ Tanguñ tree, along with tayú and tagyá – varieties of bees. Thus, the empú and elañ were obtained from Hirẃ Anẁ.\n\nAll the varieties of paddy – pyapiñ and pyare, obtained from Murtu as well as empu and elañ, obtained from Hirẃ were originally obtained from Hintẁ Anẁ.\n\nWhen Anẁ Donw and Abba Lwbo set out to sow the seeds in Wpyo Supuñ, rains and storms came to disturb them. They overcame them, equipped with baskets of tasvr and rain guards of tarpì. Then, Anẁ Donw and Abba Lwbo were constantly disturbed in their cultivation works and their life made miserable by a demon named Pyokuñ Pembò Pyoyi Tadù. This demon was finally eliminated with great efforts but their struggle was far from over. From the stomach of Pyokuñ Pembò Pyoyi Tadù emerged swarms of insects, pests and rice eating birds. They attacked the crops in the fields which led to poor harvest, and subsequent hunger and famines.\n\nIt was in order to counter the menace of insects, pests and diseases, and to alleviate the impending hunger and famines that a series of rituals were observed in the month of Dree. Achí Kharw or Dulu Talañ Myama Pwkha was the first priest, who was assisted by a committee called the Dree Pontañ. This committee consisted of Huli Gorì Hula Gora – the village committee, Huní Mitur Huna Mikiñ - the learned and wise village elders, Kharw Khatw - the high priests and Gwtú Gwra - the general public. They collected voluntary donations from every household to meet the requirements of the Dree rituals.\n\nPyodu Au and Dree Yarw are believed to be the forces that cause scarcity of food and bring hunger and sufferings to humanity. The damage caused to crops by insects and pests, together with hunger brought by Pyodu Au and Dree Yarw lead to famine. Thus, the Dree rituals are observed to ward off these forces during June–July, corresponding to Dree Pwlo of the Apatanis. During the taboo period that follows, celebration of victory over evil forces takes place. This is how Dree festival came to be celebrated.\n\nDree rituals are the Tamù, Metẁ, Medvr and Mepiñ. The Tamù is propitiated to ward off the insects and pests. The Metẁ is propitiated to ward off epidemics and other ailments of the human beings. The purification ritual of Medvr is performed to cleanse the agricultural fields of unfavorable elements. This series of rituals is concluded with Mepiñ, which is performed to seek blessings for healthy crops and well being of mankind. In the modern Dree, the Danyi is also propitiated for fertility of the soil, abundance of aquatic lives in the rice fields, healthy cattle and for prosperity of all human beings.\n\nIn the olden days, each village performed Dree rites separately at their respective villages on different dates as per the convenience of the village level organizing committees. It was in the year 1967 that the senior students of Apatani society led by Shri Lod Kojee organised the Dree centrally at a common ground at Swlañ Ditiñ for the first time. Since then, celebration during taboo period takes place centrally with fun and gaiety. Competitions of wsañ - high jump and gwbw – traditional wrestling for youths are organised, while the ladies engaged themselves in damiñda - folk dance competition. The elders exhibit their knowledge with ayú and bwsi competitions.\n\nWhile the modes of celebration have changed with time, the original rituals started by the ancestors in Wpyó Supuñ are meticulously followed till this day and the objective of the festival remains the same – for a healthy crop, a bumper harvest and overall prosperity of mankind.\n\nDuring the Dree festival, five main deities are appeased, these are; Tamù, Metẁ, Medvr, Mepiñ and Danyi.\n\n\nIt was in the later part of April 1967. After attending the Mopin festival at Pasighat town that the then students, Shri Lod Kojee and his friends studying in Jawaharlal Nehru College Pasighat, in course of an informal chat felt the need for having a festival centrally organised for the Apatanis. The Apatani society has half a dozen of pujas and festivals performed individually and collectively throughout the year but not a single puja or festival was performed at a central location on a fixed date participated by the entire community like those of Bihu of Assamese community, the Diwali of Hindus, the Solung and Mopin of Adi and Galo community, and so on. Accordingly, the possibilities of modification of few pujas and festivals of the Apatani at a centralised place on a uniformly fixed date was discussed. Due to the mythological rigidities, the modification of the pujas and festivals were not possible, but after long and hard persuasions the Dree was selected for modified celebration at a centralised location without affecting its traditional identity. Earlier, each village had its own choice of dates for commencement of the Dree. As per the modified programme, the date of centralised celebration was fixed on 5 to 7 July every year. Therefore, the village level traditional ritual performance takes place on the eve of the general celebration, i.e., on 4 July so that on the following day all the priest representatives from each village of the valley can participate in the centrally installed festival altar at general Dree ground. Since then the Dree festival is being centrally celebrated by the entire people of Apatani on 5 July every year at Nenchalya near Old Ziro.\n\nIt was the middle part of May 1967. The summer vacation of J N College Pasighat had already started. Before leaving for home the students of ziro divided amongst themselves into two groups. One group would go to Ziro and collect contributions or donations in kinds like mithun, goat, fowl, eggs, rice and other necessary materials for the celebration. The second group led by shri Lod Kojee was to proceed to Shillong for approaching the then NEFA Administration for financial assistance. At Shillong they apprised their proposal to Shri Jikom Riba the then special Social and Cultural Officer of North East Frontier Agency Administration. He led them to Shri P.N. Luthra the then Adviser to the Governor of Assam who granted them a sum of Rs 1000/= (Rupees one thousand) being the financial help towards the proposed Dree festival celebration and also he had consented to grace the occasion as chief guest.\n\nOne sunny day in the early part of June 1967, a public meeting was convened at Old Ziro which was chaired by late R.S. Nag the then Deputy Commissioner of Subansiri District. All Gaon Buras, public leaders and senior students of the valley attended the meeting. The meeting was a crucial one as it was regarding the selection of Dree venue, no decision could arrive at easily until afternoon.\n\nThe people of Reru, Tajang and Kalung Villages proposed that the Dree venue should be at Lajbogya(Place), near Bulla School. The people of Hari Village suggested that the Dree venue be at Byara(Place), near Hari school. The people of Hong Village demanded that the Dree venue should be at Hanoko(Place) near Hong school. The people of Mudang Tage and Michi- Bamin Village suggested that let the venue be at Biirii (Place), between Hong school and Mudang-Tage villages, while the people from Dutta and Hija VIllage suggested that the venue be at Nenchanglya, near Hija School. Finally, a decision was taken that the Dree venue should be selected at such a place that fulfills the following conditions;\nThese conditions were agreed by all and decided that all representatives should visit the spots physically in the next day to ascertain as to which place fulfils the above-mentioned conditions. In the next day, it was reported that Nenchanglya, near Hija schools fulfills all the conditions and was finally selected as central Dree ground.\n\nIn olden days the Dree was observed on different days according to the convenience of the concerned 'Dree Goras' or 'Pantangs'\n(an organising committee at village level). It could not be called as festival in true sense, rather it was a ritual performed by the Apatanis. However, Dree Biisi (traditional folk song) amongst the girls, and games and sports like wrestling, high jumps etc. amongst the boys took place in the village level though they were not in a large scale as it is today. Now it is the biggest festival in Apatani valley, which is celebrated at other places as well where ever the Apatanis live.\n\nOn 4 July in the evening the Dree priest traditionally inaugurates the Dree festival in their respected villages. Next day on the 5th July, Dree is officially solemnized and celebrated at common ground with traditional gaiety after it is inaugurated by a Chief Guest unfurling the Dree flag followed by Dree Anthem sung by group of artistes. Everybody present are served with Dree Taku (cucumber), Dree 'O' (rice or millet beer) followed by community feast. To add colour to the celebration the Pri-Dances, Daminda and other folk dances are displayed. The modern dance/song, literary competition, games and sports competitions are other high light of the days. During the taboo period women folks visits the home of their elderly relatives and present them with wine as a token of love and respect, and to strengthen their relationship.\n\n1. Dree and its modification, By Shri Lod Kojee. Published in the Souvenir of the Central Dree Committee, Ziro of 1992, the year in which silver jubilee of the Dree Festival celebration was observed.\n\n2. The Dree, an agricultural community festival of Apatanis and its importance, By Shri Tage Dibo. Article published in The Arunachal Times on 4 July 2009.\n\n3. The rising faith of the Apatanis, By Shri Mihin Kaning. Article published in The Echo of Arunachal on 31 December 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "53811712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53811712", "title": "Evan Davies (educationalist)", "text": "Evan Davies (educationalist)\n\nEvan Davies (26 June 1826 – 22 August 1872) was a Welsh educationalist. He was born in the Llanycrwys area of Carmarthenshire, and attended school at Llansawel, where he was taught by William Davies (1805–1859). He later studied in Alfred Day's school, Bristol, and in Glasgow, on a scholarship, from where he graduated and obtained his M.A.; in 1852 he was awarded an LL.D. For a time he taught at the new Voluntaryist college (set up without government assistance) for teachers in Brecon (1846), where after a period of training, he was appointed principal. It later became \"Swansea Training College\", for women teachers, and Davies moved there with the institution, remaining for the rest of his life in Swansea. Despite the demise of the Voluntaryist movement and the resulting shortage of funds, Davies continued to run the institution as a private venture until 1867 when he passed it on to Dan Isaac Davies, instead moving to a career in law, eventually becoming a partner in a legal firm. While in Swansea, he became choirmaster at the New Congregational Church, until forced to abandon the role by ill-health.\n"}
{"id": "50314845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50314845", "title": "Fenxiang", "text": "Fenxiang\n\nFenxiang (分香), literally the incense division, is a term that defines both hierarchical networks of temples dedicated to a god in Chinese folk religion, and the ritual process by which these networks form.\n\nNetworks of affiliated temples dedicated to the cult of a specific god or deity can proliferate extensively. These networks are economic and social bodies, and in certain moments of history have even taken military functions. They also represent routes of pilgrimage, with communities of devotees from the affiliated temples going up in the hierarchy to the senior temple.\n\nWhen a new temple dedicated to the same god is founded, it enters the sacred network through the ritual of division of incense. This consists in filling the incense burner of the new temple with ashes brought from the incense burner of an existing temple. The new temple is therefore spiritually affiliated to the older existing temple, and back in the hierarchy to the very first temple dedicated to the god.\n\n"}
{"id": "6824783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6824783", "title": "Hisashi Inoue", "text": "Hisashi Inoue\n\nInoue was born in what is now part of Kawanishi in Yamagata Prefecture, where his father was a pharmacist. His father was involved in an agrarian reform movement and also managed a local drama troupe. A novel his father had written won a prize and he was offered a job as a scriptwriter in a film company. But when he was preparing to move to Tokyo, he became ill with spinal caries and, soon after, when Hisashi Inoue was 5 years old, he died at age 34. His father's sudden death influenced Hisashi to be a writer. After suffering from child abuse at the hands of his stepfather, he was subsequently sent off to a Lasallian orphanage in Sendai, where he received a Christian baptism. He graduated from Sophia University’s Facility of Letters, continuing on to graduate school in French literature, with a two-year hiatus in between to raise more money for his studies by working at a sanatorium in Kamaishi, Iwate.\n\nWorld War II ended when Inoue was just 11 years old. The experience of war helped shape Inoue’s own writing style, and fostered an anti-war perspective.\n\nEven before graduation, Inoue began his literary career by working as a stage manager and writing scripts for the \"Furansu-za\" striptease theater in Asakusa, Tokyo. It was common to have a one-hour vaudeville performance before and between strip acts, and many famous actors, including Kiyoshi Atsumi started their careers in such an environment. He wrote a semi-fictional account of his life during this period in \"Mokkinpotto Shi no Atoshimatsu\" (\"The Fortunes of Father Mockinpott\").\nAfter graduation, he obtained a position as a script writer for a puppet drama \"Hyokkori Hyotanjima\", which aired from April 1964 for a five-year period.\n\nAfter an initial career in radio, he wrote his first stage play \"Nihonjin no Heso\" in 1969 for Theatre Echo. He first gained literary recognition for his satirical comic plays in the tradition of the Edo period \"gesaku\" genre. Inoue has won a very large number of literary awards in the course of his career, including the 67th Naoki Prize in 1972 for his novel \"Tegusari Shinju\" (\"Handcuffed Double Suicide\"). He followed on this success in 1981 with \"Kirikirijin\" (\"The People of Kirikiri\"), which was awarded both the Yomiuri Literary Prize and the 2nd Japan Science Fiction Award.\n\nIn 1984, Inoue established his own theatre troupe, called \"Komatsuza\", to perform his own plays. These include biographical works on Meiji period writers Ishikawa Takuboku and Higuchi Ichiyō, whom he had long admired. In 1988, he completed a comic trilogy: \"Kirameku seiza, Yami ni saku hana, Yuki ya kon kon\", depicting the lives of ordinary people in the Shōwa period. Despite his activity with the theatre, Inoue continued to write novels, winning the 1982 Seiun Award for Best Novel for \"Kirikirijin\", the Yoshikawa Eiji Literary Prize for \"Treasury of Disloyal Retainers\" in 1986, the 27th Tanizaki Prize for \"Shanghai Moon\" in 1991, and the Kikuchi Kan Prize for \"Tokyo Seven Roses\" in 1999. In 1984, the Writer's Block Library was opened in Kawanishi, Yamagata, thanks to Inoue's donation of his 100,000 volume book collection. Inoue was awarded the Asahi Prize in the year 2000 and the Yomiuri Literary Prize again in 2010. In 2004, he was designated a Person of Cultural Merit by the Japanese government.\n\nHis career delves into the genre of science fiction. He started radio broadcasting with the play \"X-Man\" (1960). He also wrote for the daily children's television show Hyokkori Hōtanjima [\"Madcap Island\"] (1964), which was a puppet show in which a volcanic eruption destroyed a whole community adrift. There were hints of adult and dark humor in the children's show.\n\nInoue’s career was long and distinguished. He didn’t only work as a writer, he also produced and wrote anime as a writer and lyricist. He made the theme songs for Himitsu no Akko-chan \"Secret Akko-chan\" (1969) which is the animated version of The Tales of Hans Christian Andersen. The Moomins (1969). He's known also for doing the lyrics and screenplay not just for intros but, also for a (1969) show called \"The Wonderful World of Puss 'n Boots.\" \n\n\"Chichi to kuraseba\", has been translated into the English by Roger Pulvers under the title \"The Face of Jizo\".\n\nInoue had shown a self-reflective attitude about the war. His perspectives came from his early life. When he was young, he thought that he would die due to the war. However, the war was ended with the use of the atomic bomb, and it offered him a new chance to see the world. His experience during the war also made him see himself as just one man who alone who didn't have the power to create change.\n\nIn reflecting on Japan's experience during the war, he has written, \"\"When I bring up the subject of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, an increasing number of people say, ‘It is wrong to dwell on having being victimized, because the Japanese of those days also victimized Asia.’ The second part of this view is certainly accurate. The Japanese did victimize all of Asia. However, I will never accept this first statement because I believe that the two atomic bombs were not merely dropped on the Japanese; they were dropped on the entire human existence . …modern world who cannot escape from the existence of nuclear weapons.\"\"\n\nWhen compared with other modern Japanese writers, he shows a stronger influence of Japanese culture, particularly popular culture. His writing is for Japanese people, and his plays were usually have strong influenced from Japanese culture. In turn, he has influenced Japanese broadcast systems and his influence could be easily found in the Japanese modern theatre culture, other drama, and Japanese shows. He is also famous for using high quality Japanese words in his writing. As a result, translators find it hard to translate his plays and other writing. However, because of his play was influenced by Japanese culture a lot, it would be hard to translate it into different cultures, but his writing is considered to be helpful to understand a Japanese perspective. Inoue's novel \"Kirikirijin\" (\"Kirikiri People\",1981) shows Inoue's sharp humor and word play.\n\nInoue became famous as comedy writer. In his early literary career, he worked as broadcast writer and comedy writer in strip show. These early literary career influence him to be comedy writer. His suffered young life from the death of his father and World War II also influenced him to have interest about the life of ordinary people.\n\nInoue had warm and kind perspectives about poor or weak people, and it is shown in his plays. His play tries to give hope and show the kind side of society. His writing was based on Humanism, and this likely accounts for his popularity with the public. He also usually focused on showing how ordinary people's lives were destroyed by war or calamity and how they cured themselves.\n\nInoue lived in Ichikawa, Chiba in the 1970s, and moved to Kamakura, Kanagawa from 1989, where he lived until his death. He had three daughters by his first wife, Yoshiko Nishidate, who was a stage actress and political activist. His second wife, Lily, was the sister of essayist and translator Mari Yonehara, and the daughter of Arika Yonehara, a senior member of the Japan Communist Party. Together they had a son.\n\nInoue hated air travel, but was fascinated by the city of Bologna in Italy, which he visited in 2004. He had previously visited Australia in 1976, and had also visited New York City in the 1980s for discussion about a possible Broadway version of a story of Miyamoto Musashi he was planning to write.\n\nInoue served as president of the Japan P.E.N. Club from 2003 to 2007. He was also director of the Japan Association of Playwrights, and director of the Institute of Japanese Literature. An outspoken pacifist, Inoue established a political group in support of the Constitution of Japan with Kenzaburō Ōe in 2004.\n\nA heavy smoker, Inoue was diagnosed with lung cancer in October 2009 and died at his home on 9 April 2010 at the age of 75.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19948956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19948956", "title": "History of the Jews in Vancouver", "text": "History of the Jews in Vancouver\n\nThe history of the Jews in Vancouver (also: Greater Vancouver and Metro Vancouver) in British Columbia, Canada has been noted since the mid-19th century.\n\nEarly Jewish settlers were isolated from established Jewish institutions and communities in eastern Canada and the United States. They were also often isolated from each other, scattered across the Greater Vancouver area. As the local cities developed, the Jewish community also grew and expanded beyond the original business districts to spread throughout the area. While some early Jewish settlers ran farms, poultry operations, and sawmills, most tended to work in merchant industries. Many started as street peddlers and worked their way up to running small stores, a few of which grew into retail empires. \n\nMost of the early Jewish immigrants came from the United States and Britain. By the end of World War I immigrants from Eastern Europe formed the majority of the Vancouver-area Jewish community due to discrimination in their homelands, notably the \"pogroms\" in Russia, and changes in Canadian immigration policy.\n\nEarly Jewish settlers in Vancouver were concentrated in the stores of the Gastown area and the homes of the Strathcona neighbourhood: the East End of Vancouver. The first Jewish businessman in Vancouver was Louis Gold, who opened a general store on the waterfront in 1872. His wife and son were also prominent businesspeople, and his son Edward willed valuable land to the Jewish community for charities and building projects. Edward was also elected Councilor in South Vancouver in 1914.\n\nOne notable early settler was David Oppenheimer, who moved to Vancouver in 1885. As the city's second Mayor (1888–91), he was responsible for starting much civic infrastructure and industry. Oppenheimer also secured a Jewish burial area in the city-owned Mountain View Cemetery and offered land to the community for a synagogue. He and his brothers were prominent in real estate, groceries, and transportation; their grocery business is still operating as The Oppenheimer Group. Another prominent settler was Zebulon Franks, who arrived in 1887 and opened a hardware store by 1896. Parts of his business still survive as Y. Franks Appliances and Y. Franks Parts & Service. Franks was also involved in development of Vancouver Jewish religious and community institutions, hosting the first Orthodox prayer services and serving as a founding member of B'nai B'rith. Along with Henry Sigler, he also negotiated purchase of the land for the first synagogue in Vancouver.\n\nIn the city's early years, its nearest synagogue was Temple Emanu-El in Victoria. Agudace Achim (Orthodox) was the first congregation in Vancouver, active from 1891 to 1906. A semi-Reform congregation soon followed, as Temple Emanu-El started in 1894 and was active through 1917. In 1907 a new Orthodox congregation appeared, named B'nai Yehudah (also known as Sons of Israel). However, the first Vancouver synagogue did not appear until 1911, when B'nai Yehudah was built at the corner of East Pender and Heatley Streets. Though it seated 200, larger halls had to be rented for High Holy Days. The building also housed several community organizations. Children's Judaic classes began shortly after the opening in nearby homes. In 1914, during an economic depression, the synagogue was saved from foreclosure by an emergency fundraising campaign. In 1917 B'nai Yehudah was incorporated as a society by the name of Schara Tzedeck. The Vancouver Hebrew School/Talmud Torah started at the synagogue in 1918. After thirty years as a boys' club and vocational school, the synagogue was developed into residences, and was honoured with a Vancouver Centennial plaque in 1986.\n\nLocal Jewish community organizations founded in the early 20th century included the Young Mens Hebrew Association (1909), the Ladies Aid Society (1907; later Schara Tzedeck Ladies' Auxiliary and the Sisterhood), B'nai B'rith (1910), the Hebrew Aid and Immigrant Society (1910), the Zionist and Social Society (1913), and the Hebrew Free Loan Association (1915). Samuel Davies Schultz was appointed to Vancouver County Court in 1914, making him Canada's first Jewish judge. Max Grossman was the first Vancouver Jew to be appointed King's Counsel, as a lawyer, in 1917. Grossman was involved in many community organizations and was a major force in the first Schara Tzedeck Synagoge, the Vancouver Hebrew School, and the first Jewish Community Centre.\n\nMore affluent Jewish families began to settle in the West End area in the early 20th century, centered around Congregation Temple Emanu-El. The congregation started raising funds for a semi-Reform synagogue in 1911, but World War I and economic depression interrupted their efforts. The congregation stopped services in 1917. Shortly afterwards, the rearrangement of European boundaries following the Russian revolution and the Treaty of Versailles led to a wave of Eastern European Orthodox Jewish immigrants. The Jewish population of Vancouver was still too small to support multiple synagogues; therefore in 1919–1921 the remnants of the Reform congregation joined with the larger Orthodox congregation, Schara Tzedeck, to build a new synagogue in the East End for all Vancouver Jews. However the Temple Emanu-El Ladies Auxiliary continued to hold separate social and charitable events in the West End, as well as a children's Sabbath school, until the congregation dissolved entirely in 1932.\n\nThe 1920s were a time of further growth for the Jewish community. Schara Tzedeck Synagogue (Orthodox) was built in 1920 on the site of the old B'nai Yehudah synagogue in the East End. The old synagogue building remained for use by the Hebrew school and as a community hall. A Hadassah chapter was founded in 1920, Jewish Community Chest and Vancouver Council of Jewish Women in 1924, the Hebrew Athletic Club and early meetings for Congregation Beth Israel (Conservative) in 1925. The first Jewish regular newspaper, called the \"Vancouver Jewish Community Centre\", started in 1923. It later became the \"Jewish Western Bulletin\", which published from 1930 to 2001. The Schara Tzedeck congregation, which had hosted and subsidized the Talmud Torah Hebrew school, took over the school's governance from 1928 to 1943. \n\nA significant event was the 6–7 July 1921 visit by the Very Reverend Dr. Joseph H. Hertz, Chief Rabbi of the United Congregation of the British Empire. In 1922 visiting vaudeville performer Jack Benny met Sadye Marks at a Passover Seder in the West End. They married in 1927 and she went on to vaudeville, radio, and movie stardom as his partner Mary Livingstone.\n\nTwo prominent Jewish businesses were established during this period. First, in 1919, Sam Cohen opened the Army & Navy surplus and liquidation store. He built it into a mail-order and retail chain operating throughout western Canada; it is now run by his granddaughter Jacqui. Second, Ben and Morris Wosk started Wosk's in 1923 as an appliance store. It grew into a major publicly traded chain of furniture and appliance stores in western Canada, but is now defunct. The Wosks were also real estate moguls and philanthropists.\n\nIn the 1920s and 1930s, many Jewish families moved to new neighbourhoods south of False Creek, especially Fairview. The Talmud Torah Hebrew school opened an annex here, near Broadway and Cambie Street, in 1923. After a long period of fundraising, the first Jewish Community Centre was built in 1928 at Oak Street and 11th Avenue. The Talmud Torah school annex moved into the Centre that same year. The Congregation Beth Israel was formally founded in 1932 and held services in the Centre. In 1937 the Schara Tzedeck congregation decided to move to the Fairview area but was hampered by economic depression and war. Following the Wall Street Crash of 1929, many upper-class families left the West End for the new neighbourhoods of Shaughnessy and Point Grey. \n\nThe Jewish Administrative Council was established in 1932 to coordinate the Free Loan Association, Community Chest, and Community Centre.\n\nBy the 1940s, Jewish population and community life began to centre on Oak Street in central Vancouver, south of the first Jewish Community Centre. The Talmud Torah school established its first independent facility in 1943 on West 14th Avenue between Oak and Cambie Streets. The Orthodox congregation Beth Hamidrash B'nai Ya'acov began in 1943, so its members could be within walking distance of their Fairview homes. The Peretz Centre for Secular Jewish Culture, previously known as the Vancouver Peretz Institute or Shule, was established in 1945 near Oak Street as a secular-humanist educational and cultural centre. A home for elderly Jews was founded nearby in 1946, partly funded by American comedian Eddie Cantor. The Schara Tzedeck congregation finally dedicated its new synagogue here in 1948, as well as the Beth Israel synagogue in 1949. The Talmud Torah school moved to a new Oak Street campus in 1948 and became a day school for elementary grades.\n\nA Vancouver branch of the Canadian Jewish Congress was established in 1941. In 1944, the first Jewish funeral chapel was opened by Schara Tzedeck.\n\nThe post-World War II period saw a greater influx of central and eastern Canadian Jews, as well as the first wave of Sephardic Jewish immigration to British Columbia. The Council of Jewish Women was key in assisting and aiding the various refugees that came post-war, including forty-seven children orphaned by the Holocaust who came in 1948. In addition to Holocaust survivors, the next decades brough Jewish immigrants from Iraq, Hungary, and Czechoslovakia. The first Sephardic High Holy Day services were held in 1966 at the Jewish Community Centre. A Sephardic congregation soon formed and used the Beth Hamidrash synagogue, whose membership had been shrinking. In 1979 the Sephardic congregation merged with the Beth Hamidrash Ashkenazic congregation.\n\nThe Jewish population continued to shift south and west to the Oakridge area through the 1960s and 1970s. At Oak and 41st a new Jewish Community Centre was built in 1962 as well as the Louis Brier Home and Hospital for the aged in 1968. It is the only Jewish seniors' facility west of Winnipeg. Temple Sholom (Reform) was founded in 1965. Its first home was on West 10th Avenue. This building was destroyed by a fire bomb in January 1985; the Congregation built a new synagogue on Oak Street, which was dedicated in 1988. \n\nWealthy families also moved to the Point Grey and West Vancouver neighbourhoods. Leonoff's study of the \"Vancouver Jewish Community Telephone Directory\" suggests that only 10% of the local Jewish community lived outside Vancouver in 1960, though many families began moving to the suburbs as housing costs rose.\n\nWhile the development of community services and congregations has often been a cooperative process, with help from organizations in neighbouring cities, there are some accounts of suburban communities feeling ignored by central organizations. The Jewish Federation of Greater Vancouver was established in 1987 to develop a wider community across the area. It was born from the merger of the United Jewish Appeal and the Jewish Community Fund and Council. \n\nThe Jewish Community Centre of Greater Vancouver also offers services intended for the entire community. It houses many organizations such as the Jewish Federation of Greater Vancouver, the Jewish Museum and Archives of B.C., and the Vancouver Holocaust Education Centre. The centre also offers programs for all ages, the Isaac Waldman library, and recreational, arts and event facilities.\n\nIn 1974 Rabbi Yitzchak and Henia Wineberg moved from Brooklyn, NY to open the first Chabad House centre in Western Canada. Chabad has been credited with spearheading the resurgence in Jewish identity, and practice. Chabad Lubavitch BC now operates 7 centres in BC including, Chabad of Vancouver Island, Chabad of the Okanagan, Centre for Judaism of the Lower Fraser Valley in White Rock, Chabad of Richmond, Chabad of Downtown Vancouver, Chabad of East Vancouver, and the Chabad headquarters on 41st and Oak. Chabad also operates in the popular resort town of Whistler, BC with some holiday programs including Chanukah celebrations and Passover Seders\n\nBeth Hamidrash dedicated a new synagogue building in 2004. Congregation Schara Tzedeck celebrated its centenary in 2007 as the first and largest Orthodox synagogue in British Columbia. Its membership counted 450 families, some of whom were fourth-generation members. Congregation Beth Israel celebrated its seventy-fifth anniversary in 2007. Several notable members of the Jewish support movement were responsible for the building of banks and clinics in East Vancouver, most notable was Duffy Holeksa, who was quoted as saying \"I'll build these banks with every penny I have!\".\nJewish merchants have been part of New Westminster since its founding in 1859 when firms like Meyer, Reinhards & Co. and Messrs. Levi and Boas arrived to supply prospectors for the Cariboo Gold Rush. There were a few Jewish families and businesses in the area by the late 1920s. The Schara Tzedeck congregation of Vancouver consecrated its cemetery here in 1929, despite neighbourhood opposition. One prominent family was that of Louis Zack, who started a drycleaning business in 1929 and became business and community leaders. In 1941 Sam and Paul Heller acquired and modernised the Pacific Pine Co. Ltd. sawmill. \n\nThe Royal City Hadassah chapter was founded in 1947, and was active through at least 2001. The chapter was the focus of increased Jewish social activities. After years of parent car-pooling to Vancouver Jewish schools and hiring private tutors, the New Westminster branch of Vancouver's Talmud Torah school was established in 1949. Most families still tended to participate in Vancouver synagogues, partly due to family ties. Louis Leask was a prominent doctor and school trustee from 1952 to 1971. Muni Evers, a pharmacist, served six years as alderman and fourteen years as mayor of New Westminster. \n\nBy 1960, the Jewish community directory listed 21 families in New Westminster. However, during the 1970s the local Jewish community was shrinking and spreading to cheaper housing eastwards.\n\nDue to an early lack of bridges across Burrard Inlet, and the distance from Jewish institutions, the Jewish population of West Vancouver and North Vancouver was small until after the Second World War. One of the notable Jewish businessmen who settled there was Samuel Gintzburger. He served on the first West Vancouver municipal council in 1912, founded the Vancouver Hebrew Free Loan Association, was a long-time president of Vancouver's Temple Emanu-El, and mentored Jewish children from the Juvenile Court. Another North Shore businessman was Louis Brier, who willed his Gold Rush fortune to fund a non-sectarian seniors' home, orphanage, and hospital. This became the Louis Brier Home in Vancouver. A third notable resident was Harry Evans, who helped to establish Beth Israel Cemetery in Burnaby in 1946. He also founded the B.C. Collateral Loan Co. Ltd., which is still operating, in Gastown in 1899.\n\nIn addition to business opportunities, Jewish families and community groups enjoyed the North Shore's beaches, hiking trails, picnic spots, fishing creeks, mountains, and ski runs.\n\nA Jewish community began to develop on the North Shore in the 1950s. In 1952 the Gleneagles Golf and Country Club was established in West Vancouver, since private golf clubs would not admit Jews at the time. It is now owned by the City of West Vancouver. The North Shore Jewish Community Association was founded in 1958, and began holding religious services in the West Vancouver Community Centre as Conservative congregation Shaar Harim in the early 1960s. At this time a Sunday Hebrew School started in a North Shore family home, later moving to the West Vancouver Community Centre.\n\nThe North Shore's first synagogue, Har-El (Conservative), was built in 1998. It also features the North Shore Jewish Community Centre and an afternoon Hebrew School. A Traditional congregation, Torat Hayim, started in 1999.\n\nOne of the first Jewish settlers in Burnaby was George Biely, who started a poultry farm in 1936. Early Jewish residents often socialized in neighbouring cities: residents of western Burnaby went to Vancouver, while those of eastern Burnaby went to New Westminster. In 1946 Vancouver's Beth Israel congregation consecrated a cemetery in northern Burnaby.\n\nThe establishment of Simon Fraser University in 1965 attracted many Jewish academics, especially from the United States. More families also began to settle in east Burnaby and neighbouring areas like New Westminster, Port Moody, Coquitlam, and Port Coquitlam. The Burquest Jewish Community Association began in 1973, and was incorporated in 1976, to offer social and educational programs. A cooperative Sunday school, which met in members' homes and later at the Centennial Lodge of New Westminster, was also founded at that time. From 1976 until 1980, when services started in Burnaby, the Richmond/Delta Jewish Community Association offered seats at its High Holidays services to Burquest members. The Burquest Jewish Community Association and Sha'arai Mizrah congregation are now based in Coquitlam.\n\nThe rich river delta soil of the area attracted many Jewish farmers. One was Jack Bell, the \"Cranberry King\", who started BC's first cranberry farm on Lulu Island in 1946.\n\nUrban development in Richmond first started at Steveston on the southwestern end of Lulu Island. As the town boomed around its fishing harbour and canneries in the 1890s, several stores were established by Jewish immigrants. When fire ravaged Steveston in 1918, development shifted to the northern side of the island. Twelve Jewish families were listed here in 1959, with four in more rural areas. The same year, the Richmond Country Club was founded on Steveston Highway; though non-sectarian, it was largely Jewish and remains so. The Jewish population increased with the postwar boom as families searched for affordable land, and as bridges were built to Vancouver. \n\nIn the 1960s, Jewish residents of Richmond were mostly young families. Residents met to organize a Hebrew school for these children, and formed the Richmond/Delta Jewish Community Association in 1971. Youth programs started in 1971 and High Holy Days services in 1972, both in borrowed facilities. The Conservative congregation Beth Tikvah started in 1977. Ten years later, the congregation established a cemetery in Surrey and a Hebrew high school. The synagogue was expanded in 1993.\n\nIn 1977, some families split from the community association to form the Orthodox Congregation of Richmond. Services and school were held in homes until the 1979 opening of Eitz Chaim synagogue. The congregation built a new synagogue and school in 1988.\n\nThe Richmond Jewish community grew quickly in the 1980s and 1990s, welcoming a large number of immigrants from abroad. The Kehila Society was founded in 2000 to manage such growth and coordinate Richmond Jewish community organizations. Chabad of Richmond (Chabad-Lubavitch) was formed in 1997. Three years later the congregation first celebrated High Holy Days and formed a Community Kollel for pan-Jewish education. Richmond Jewish Day School started in 1992 and moved to a permanent facility in 1998.\n\nIn 2002, some of the congregation of Eitz Chaim split off to form a new orthodox community which known as Young Israel of Richmond (YIRBC), which closed in June 2015 .\n\nSome Jewish families settled in the area as pioneers, while others retired there after owning summer homes; still others arrived in the 1960s' search for affordable housing. One notable resident was Max Zack, who owned a hotel in White Rock and served as alderman (1958–1960).\n\nA summer camp for Jewish youth was built at Crescent Beach in 1937 by the National Council of Jewish Women, with help from the Vancouver Jewish community. The camp was transferred to the Zionist Organization of British Columbia in 1946 and renamed Camp Hatikvah. Local Jewish men trained here in 1948 to fight in the Israeli War of Independence. Camp Hatikvah moved to the Okanagan region of British Columbia in 1956.\n\nThe area became home to several Jewish cemeteries, including those belonging to Temple Sholom, Vancouver, in 1977, and Beth Tikvah, Richmond, in 1987.\n\nIn 1986 the Centre for Judaism of the Lower Fraser Valley was founded, and later opened its first synagogue in North Delta (Chabad Lubavitch). In 1995 it moved to White Rock, where it resides today. The school also runs the Gan Israel children's summer day camp.\n\nA chapter of Jewish Women International, formerly B'nai B'rith Women of BC, formed here in 1989.\n\nIn the early 1990s a group of families hosted an open Passover dinner, inviting all South Surrey Jews to attend. The response to the event was so overwhelming that it grew into what became White Rock South Surrey Jewish Community Centre in 1994. In its present permanent location the community centre holds regular services and conducts Hebrew school for all ages, while hosting a multitude of programs from pre-school to senior ages. It has members from as far away as Abbotsford, B.C., and Bellingham, Washington.\n\nA small number of Jewish families settled in the farmland of the Fraser Valley, east of Vancouver. They were generally storekeepers, farmers and doctors. Early Jewish residents of Maple Ridge included John and William Hammond, who arrived in 1872 and established the town of Port Hammond. Thomas Haney arrived in 1876 and built a brick plant that started nearby Port Haney. These towns peaked in the early 1880s as supply points for Canadian Pacific Railway construction; they are now parts of Maple Ridge, retaining their names as neighbourhoods.\n\nJewish settlement in the Fraser Valley was scattered, and the nearest synagogues were a day's travel away in Vancouver and Bellingham, Washington. In the early 1950s, the Rabbi of Congregation Beth Israel (Bellingham, Washington) briefly provided classes for local Jewish children. He could not visit frequently enough, however, and families resumed commuting. Since the 1964 opening of the Highway 1 freeway and Port Mann Bridge made travel easier, Fraser Valley Jewish families have been able to participate more fully in the synagogues of Vancouver and its suburbs. Some families still prefer to commute to Bellingham, Washington, which is closer but across the US border.\n\nCyril Edel Leonoff claims that the interfaith marriage rate for Vancouver Jews in 2001 was about 60%, with 40% of Jewish people formally involved with religious congregations. He also states that as of 2001 the largest congregations were Conservative, though the Reform congregation has also been growing. In the 2006 Canadian census 21,465 people in Greater Vancouver identified their ethnic origin as Jewish. These people represent about 1% of the census region's approximately two million respondents. Leonoff said in 2008 that the Jewish population of Greater Vancouver was 25,000, which was 80% of the Jewish population of British Columbia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46404939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46404939", "title": "Hizb ut-Tahrir (Australia)", "text": "Hizb ut-Tahrir (Australia)\n\nHizb ut-Tahrir ( \"Ḥizb at-Taḥrīr\"; \"Party of Liberation\") is an international pan-Islamist and fundamentalist political organisation. The organisation is considered a radical Islamic group and has come under scrutiny from the Australian government.\n\nThey are commonly associated with the goal of all Muslim countries unifying as an Islamic state or caliphate ruled by Islamic law (\"sharia\") and with a head of state (\"caliph\") elected by Muslims.\n\nHizb ut-Tahrir (Australia) has prepared a structure, constitution and an anthem for its proposed Khilafah State. It has more than 300 members in Australia.\n\nAccording to Hizb ut-Tahrir (Australia), \"Europe and the U.S are the enemy\", Jews \"are the most evil creatures\", women should be segregated for \"cultural reasons\", and Muslim children should not be forced to sing the Australian national anthem.\n\nThe Hizb ut-Tahrir constitution contains contentious issues such as (Article 7c), \"Those who are guilty of apostasy (murtadd) from Islam are to be executed\". The proposed state would enforce Islamic Sharia law.\n\nIn Australia in 2005, the party survived a proposed ban after clearance from the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation.\n\nThe party planned its first Khilafah conference in Sydney for 27 January 2007. The planned conference led to allegations in newspaper reports that the party was linked to the July 2005 London bombings. Opposition politicians called on the local and federal governments not to grant visas to foreign speakers attending, and to re-consider proscribing Hizb ut-Tahrir. The demands for a ban were rejected by Attorney General Philip Ruddock, on the grounds there was insufficient evidence to warrant banning the group. Radical clerics from the group demanded the establishment of a Muslim superstate, and warned Muslims they must be prepared to kill anyone who threatened its existence.\n\nHizb ut-Tahrir members originally planned to hold the conference in the town hall of Bankstown, New South Wales, a suburb of Sydney with adjacent Lakemba as Australia's biggest Muslim electorate, but the Sydney council cancelled it. Hizb ut-Tahrir secured another location the next day on 28 January. According to the Herald Sun, he also stated, \"if you people are united and a third person comes along and tries to incite disunity ... kill him..., Muslims are not unique in doing so, as most nations kill those charged with treason...\" \n\nConference spokesman Wassim Doureihi said the work of Hizb ut-Tahrir was not to change the political landscape in Australia. He added, \"It is because of Islam and my allegiance to Islam that I am responsible for ensuring to do what I can to protect the safety and security of all peoples in this country and beyond.\"\n\nMorris Iemma, Premier of New South Wales and MP for Lakemba, which with adjacent Bankstown has Australia's largest Muslim community, stated around the time of the conference that Hizb ut-Tahrir \"is an organisation that is basically saying that it desires to declare war on Australia, our values and our people.\" even though according to \"Sydney Morning Herald\", the speakers at the Khilafah Conference \"made it clear they did not see Australia as part of their fundamentalist society\" Attorney General Philip Ruddock responded that the Iemma government should \"stop playing politics and if it had any evidence helpful to the security agencies, it should give it to them.\"\n\nOne opponent of a ban on Hizb ut-Tahrir, Irfan Yusuf, writing in the on-line publication Crikey, stating in \"No need to be alarmed about Hizb ut-Tahrir\" that the opposition Australian Labor Party \"clearly wants to look tougher than the government on national security. But it risks alienating much of its support base in some Muslim circles by picking on a group many Muslims regard as harmless.\" Ban supporter Rebecca Weisser, however, alleged in The Australian that former members of Hizb ut-Tahrir include Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed Omar Bakri Mohammed \"four of the seven suspects in the failed terror attacks on London on June 29 and in Glasgow on July 1.\" In Australia, writer Thomas Lehmann criticized the party and its former media representative, Wassim Doureihi, because they \"openly flout our hospitality and tolerance while advocating the replacement of our democratic system with theocratic fascism,\" and for refusing \"to condemn the September 11, Bali or London terror attacks.\"\n\nOn 15 September 2012, there were protests outside the American Embassy in Sydney urged on by the website of Hizb ut-Tahrir against non-Muslims. The visiting UK Spokesman for Hizb ut-Tahrir, Taji Mustafa, denied demanding protests and uprisings, although all links on his website leading to Facebook groups substantiate these denials as untrue. The protests preceded an organised gathering at Bankstown on 16 September. Although a video is blamed for the protests, Hizb ut-Tahrir's objectives, led by Taji Mustafa, tend to be for a Caliphate. Placards carried during the protest on 15 September called for beheading, with one such placard being carried by a young child. Taji Mustafa brought further denials that his website has hate speech. There are calls for Hizb ut-Tahrir to be banned in Australia and Taji Mustafa not to re-enter Australia.\n\nAt a Hizb ut-Tahrir conference held in Sydney in November 2013, speakers called on those present to resist any attempts to moderate Islam, with a Hizb ut-Tahrir spokesman condemned any, \"watering down of Islam\". The audience was told that a war on Islam is being waged in this country. Reporting on the conference, a commentator noted the paradox in which, \"Hizb ut-Tahrir [has the] propensity for condemning the government, culture, values and democratic traditions of Australia, while its members seem happy to live here\".\n\nOrganisers of a cultural event hosted at the Sydney Opera House, which was part of the Festival of Dangerous Ideas, cancelled a speech by Hizb ut-Tahrir spokesman Uthman Badar in June 2014 titled ‘Honour Killings are Morally Justified’ after widespread outrage.\n\nAt a demonstration in Sydney held on 25 July 2014, Ismail Al-Wahwah, who is the group's leader in Australia, stated (as translated by MEMRI):\n\nAt the same rally, Wassim Doureihi described the conflict against Israel as \"a civilizational struggle between Islam and between kufir,\" further stating that \"This is an Islamic struggle to liberate Islamic lands, to re-institute Islamic rule over what is, and will always be, Islamic land.\" Regarding Jews who currently live in Israel, Doureihi offered the following advice: \"our advice, very clearly, is to return to the lands from which you immigrated, to do so peacefully before you will do so forcefully.\"\n\nIn an audio clip of a speech on Voice of Islam Radio (Australia), which was later posted online 16 October 2014, Ismail Al-Wahwah stated (as translated by MEMRI) that \"Our true conflict is with Europe and the U.S. They are the enemy. They are the ones that perpetrated crimes against the Islamic nation and its history.\" He further stated that \"The Western standard of living is high because they stole our oil and resources, and prevented us from engaging in agriculture, industry, and trade. The famine in our country stems from Western policies.\"\n\nSheikh Ismail al-Wahwah (aka Abu Anas) is the spiritual leader of Hizb ut-Tahrir Australia. Uthman Badar and Wassim Doureihi are spokesmen for the organisation. Doureihi has been criticised for failing to denounce the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant. Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott said, \"Hizb ut-Tahrir is an organisation with an ideology which justifies terrorism, and that's why I say it's un-Australian, it's also un-Islamic.\"\n\nIt has been reported that Man Haron Monis the gunman who took hostages in a siege at the Lindt Chocolate Café in Sydney, was radicalised by members of Hizb ut-Tahrir. In June 2014 Monis attended a presentation by Hizb ut-Tahrir which was held in response to an earlier Hizb ut-Tahrir lecture titled 'Honour Killings are Morally Justified', which was cancelled.\n\nHizb ut-Tahrir Australia refused to condemn the killing of Charlie Hebdo staff by Islamist militants and organised a Sydney rally, anticipating 10,000 would attend. On the night, some of the 800 attendees carried signs reading, \"Je suis Muslims\". Hizb ut-Tahrir speakers denounced freedom of speech and urged supporters not to turn the other cheek if Muhammad is insulted. Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott said Hizb ut-Tahrir are a \"bit thin-skinned about free speech\" and need to, \"lighten up\"; a Hizb ut-Tahrir spokesman subsequently described Abbott's comments as provocative and derogatory.\n\nA 2015 article on \"The Conversation\" website stated that Hizb ut-Tahrir is not registered as a political party in Australia, and is not active in any mosques or schools. The article said that the organisation \"does not have any real influence on Australia’s Islamic community\". Columnist Janet Albrechtsen says, \"When Hizb ut-Tahrir exploits our liberties to espouse its freedom-loathing notions . . [we should confront and critique them] . . by exposing their agenda as medieval and immoral\".\n\nIn a sermon which was posted on the Internet on 3 March 2015, Australian Hizb ut-Tahrir spokesperson Ismail Al-Wahwah stated (as translated by MEMRI) that \"Refraining from fighting and from waging Jihad against the Jews constitutes fitna ['strife']. This fitna is worse than killing, because it means that the Israelites will rule the Muslims until Judgment Day\" while adding that \"Recognizing the Jews and giving them even a single inch of Palestine constitutes the epitome of evil, because this will strengthen that cancerous entity. They are the most evil creatures of Allah: \"You shall find the strongest people in enmity towards the believers to the Jews and the polytheists.\" Later in his sermon, Al-Wahwah stated:\n\nFollowing the sermon the police said, \"it is not possible to identify who uploaded the footage in question or charge him or her for uploading the offensive material.\" No charges were laid.\n\nDuring a Hizb ut-Tahrir meeting in Sydney, in May 2015, women were segregated to the rear of the auditorium for \"cultural reasons\".\n\nIn November 2015, at a conference attended by more than 500 people, Hizb ut-Tahrir spokesman Uthman Badar said Muslim children should not be forced to sing the Australian national anthem as the, \"anthem reflects a particular disputed view of history and celebrates particular ideological values. Why should they be forced to sing it?\" Attorney-General George Brandis said Australians should be \"appalled at its lack of respect for the nation’s cultural identity\". Australia's Race Discrimination Commissioner, Tim Soutphommasane said Hizb ut-Tahrir's views are, \"absurd.\"\n\nIn March 2016 the New South Wales Civil and Administrative Tribunal determined that separate male and female seating arrangements at public events hosted by Hizb ut-Tahrir contravened section 33 of the NSW Anti-Discrimination Act. The Tribunal ordered that all future publicity materials for public events hosted by Hizb ut-Tahrir must clearly inform attendees that segregated seating arrangements are not compulsory.\n\nIn March 2016, Australian Hizb ut-Tahrir leader Al-Wahwah called on (as translated by MEMRI) the audience at a Hizb ut-Tahrir, Caliphate Conference in Ankara Turkey, \"to lead the armies of jihad that will conquer Europe and America\".\n\nFollowing the participation of Yassmin Abdel-Magied as a panellist on ABC Q&A on 13 February 2017 where she started to explain part of her interpretation of Sharia law, Wassim Doureihi commented on his Facebook page about the episode. He said \"The sister's arguments were indeed problematic, but the bigger problem was to accept to speak within such narrow confines in the first place. Was always set up for failure.\" A FB profile \"Yassmina be Chillin\" (authenticity unverified - not her official FB profile name) responded, saying she was willing to hear feedback and take advice. Doureihi responded that she, \"ended up framing Islam through a secular lens, aimed at a secular people and conscious of the presence of a secular government\".\n\nIn March 2017, at a public forum in Bankstown, Uthman Badar when asked about Article 7c of the Hizb ut-Tahrir constitution, said, \"Islam is clear that apostates do attract capital punishment, we don't shy away from that.\" The matter is being investigated by the Australian Federal Police.\n\nIn April 2017 Hizb ut-Tahrir produced a video in which two women discussed how to resolve marital conflicts. One of the women said, \"a man is permitted to hit a woman as an act of discipline\" and described the permissive text as \"beautiful\" and \"a blessing\". There was a strong rejection of the instructions contained in the video, with the Minister for Women Michaelia Cash saying, \"these attitudes have no place in modern Australia\". Hizb ut-Tahrir said in response to the criticism, \"We firmly believe that we, as a community, must not shy away from the clarification of Islamic injunctions\". Muslim community leaders have rejected the advice in the video saying, \"Muslim men are required to take the Prophet as their role model and should therefore be active in campaigns and programs to prevent men's violence against women\".\n\nIn August 2017 the group's leader Ismail al-Wahwah was banned from entering the kingdom of Denmark and classfied as a hate preacher.\n"}
{"id": "11741522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11741522", "title": "Islam in Tonga", "text": "Islam in Tonga\n\nIslam in Tonga is a small minority religion in the country. Muslims in Tonga belong to Sunni denomination. The number of Muslims was estimated at less than 1000 in 2010 by the Pew Research Center in a population of about 108,000, while a report by the Fiji Muslim League estimated that in 2002 there were about 70 Muslim Tongan nationals out of a Muslim population of 100.\n\nTonga’s Muslim community is planning to raise funds in the Middle East to build a new boarding school on Tongatapu. The school is to follow the Tongan school curriculum, but additionally offer the Arabic language and Islamic studies as options. Sheikh Imam Abdul Fader, a spiritual leader of the Tongan Muslim community and a mathematics teacher, said their project is to build a three-story boarding school that will serve Muslims and non-Muslims, especially orphans who are often deprived of education. The children in the school will not be forced to study or convert to Islam. He also said that a small delegation of Tongan Muslims will leave in June 2007 for Saudi Arabia and Qatar to seek donations and funding for the new school, since these two countries are well known for their strong contributions to the Muslim community in Australia and New Zealand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5496670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5496670", "title": "JESNA", "text": "JESNA\n\nJESNA (Jewish Education Service of North America) is the Jewish federation system’s educational coordinating, planning, and development agency. A national, non-profit agency, it was created in 1981. It closed in 2013.\n\nOver the past twenty-five years (until 2013), the agency provided service and created partnerships with a wide array of organizations and individuals, including Federations, the religious movements, national agencies, foundations, and many educational institutions.\n\nJESNA‘s goal was to increase the availability of engaging, inspiring, high quality Jewish education. Operating as a national resource, a community partner, a catalyst and a consultant, an innovator and a guarantor of quality, JESNA helped to: recruit and prepare new generations of talented, committed Jewish educators; create and identify models of excellence in educational practice; and assist communities and front-line institutions in improving their programs and performance.\n\nJESNA worked closely with the central agencies for Jewish education that operate in more than 60 communities and the Jewish federations in more than 150 communities throughout North America.\n\nIt was governed by a board of directors composed of lay and professional leaders in Jewish education from across North America, including individuals from the major Jewish religious movements.\n\n"}
{"id": "35371851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35371851", "title": "Jainism in Belgium", "text": "Jainism in Belgium\n\nThe Jains in Belgium are estimated to be around about 1,500 people. The majority live in Antwerp, working in the wholesale diamond business. Belgian Indian Jains control two-thirds of the rough diamonds trade and supplied India with roughly 36% of their rough diamonds. They have built building a major temple in Wilrijk (near Antwerp), with a cultural centre, which was consecrated in 2010. Their spiritual leader, Ramesh Mehta, is a full-fledged member of the Belgian Council of Religious Leaders put up on 17 December 2009.\n\nThe Jain community in Europe, especially in Belgium, is mostly involved in the very lucrative diamond business.\n\nThe Jains starting arriving in Belgium in the 1960s. They initially traded low quality rough diamonds, with very small margins of profit, while the local Jewish merchants dealt in larger stones. These were sent to India for cutting and polishing, where labour costs were much lower. Gradually they started dealing in larger diamonds.\n\nIn 1992, The Jain Cultural Centre of Antwerpen VZW was formed with 12 committee members and 52 founder members. Land for a Jain temple and a meditation centre (Upashray) was purchased. In 2001, construction of Antwerp Jain temple and meditation hall began. In 2007, Jain idol's Anjanshalaka took place on 31 January in India and was performed by Jain ascetics Acharya Shri Subodhsagarsuriswarji, Acharya Shri Manohar Kiritisagarsuriswarji, Acharya Udaykirtisagarsuriswarji and Shri Narendra Hiralal. It was necessary to do that in India because the orthodox jain monks still do not travel overseas. In 2008, on 25 August the idols were brought to Antwerp by air, this was followed by a huge procession. In 2010, on 27 August, the Idol's pratistha was performed.\nPrincipal deity of this temple is Parshvanatha, 23rd tirthankara of Jainism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6024052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6024052", "title": "James Carroll (author)", "text": "James Carroll (author)\n\nJames P. Carroll (born January 22, 1943, Chicago, Illinois, United States) is an American author, historian, and journalist. A Roman Catholic reformer, he has written extensively about his experiences in the seminary and as a priest, and has published, besides novels, books on religion and history.\n\nCarroll was born in Chicago, the second of five sons of late Air Force General Joseph Carroll (DIA), and his wife Mary. At the time, his father was a Special Agent of the FBI, which he remained until being seconded to, and later commissioned by, the US Air Force as an Intelligence Officer in 1948. After this, Carroll was raised in the Washington, D.C. area and in Germany. He was educated at Washington's Priory School (now St. Anselm's Abbey School) and at an American high school, the H. H. Arnold, in Wiesbaden, Germany. He attended Georgetown University before entering St. Paul's College, the Paulist Fathers' seminary, where he received his B.A. and M.A. degrees.\n\nHe was ordained to the priesthood in 1969. Carroll served as Catholic chaplain at Boston University from 1969 to 1974. During that time, he studied poetry with George Starbuck and published books on religious subjects and a book of poems. He was also a columnist for the \"National Catholic Reporter\" (1972–1975) and was named Best Columnist by the Catholic Press Association. For his writing on religion and politics he received the first Thomas Merton Award from Pittsburgh's Thomas Merton Center in 1972. Carroll left the priesthood and the Paulist Fathers in 1974 to become a writer, and, in the same year, was a playwright-in-residence at the Berkshire Theater Festival. On May 20, 2013 he received the honorary Doctor of Letters from Lehigh University in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania.\n\nCarroll's plays have been produced at the Berkshire Theater Festival and at Boston's Next Move Theater. In 1976 he published his first novel, \"Madonna Red\", which was followed by nine others. He has written for numerous publications, including \"The New Yorker\", and his op-ed column appears weekly in \"The Boston Globe\". He won the 1996 National Book Award for Nonfiction for \"An American Requiem: God, My Father, and the War That Came Between Us\", a memoir about the Vietnam War and his relationships with his father, the American military, and the Catholic Church. In an interview with the New York Times, Carroll explained why he wrote it: \"I thought I would feel better. One of the effects of telling the story as I experienced it was for it to be redeemed, made meaningful. At the end, I found myself deeply in touch with the tragic aspect of the life we live. It's a highfalutin word, but there's something tragic to the story I told.\" Nevertheless, after completing it, he said, instead of feeling relief, \"I put my head down, and I wept.\"\n\nHe is the author of other books on religion and politics, including \"House of War\", which won the first PEN/John Kenneth Galbraith Award for non-fiction. Mr. Carroll's other works include the novels \"Secret Father\", \"The City Below\", \"Memorial Bridge\", \"Prince of Peace\", \"Mortal Friends\", and \"Madonna Red\", in addition to various plays and \"Forbidden Disappointments\", a book of poetry published in 1974. Carroll's work has received the Melcher Book Award, the James Parks Morton Interfaith Award, and National Jewish Book Award in History, and has been frequently been named among the Notable Books of the Year by \"The New York Times\".\n\nCarroll has been a Shorenstein Fellow at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University and a Fellow at the Center for the Study of Values in Public Life at the Harvard Divinity School. He is a trustee of the Boston Public Library, a member of the Advisory Board of the International Center for Ethics, Justice, and Public Life at Brandeis University, and a member of the Dean's Council at the Harvard Divinity School. Carroll is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and is a member of the Academy's Committee on International Security Studies. He worked on his 2006 history of the Pentagon, \"House of War\", as a Scholar-in-Residence at the Academy. Carroll is also a Distinguished Scholar-in-Residence at Suffolk University in Boston, where he wrote his latest book, \"Practicing Catholic\", published in 2009.\n\nCarroll wrote a history of Christianity, specifically Roman Catholicism, anti-Semitism and treatment of Jews, titled \"\" (2001). In this work, he connects many personal experiences, especially his boyhood trips to Catholic pilgrimage sites in the Rhineland, and as a seminarian and priest, to the places and events that he analyzes. The book was a New York Times Best Seller, although it got mixed reviews. The book also earned Carroll several accolades from national newspapers, including \"The New York Times\" and the \"Los Angeles Times\".\n\nCarroll co-wrote and presented the 2007 documentary \"Constantine's Sword\" with filmmaker Oren Jacoby.\n\nIn a 2009 book, he denounced Pope Benedict XVI as \"the chief sponsor of the new Catholic fundamentalism, enforced with no regard for the real cost to human beings.\"\n\nCarroll married the novelist Alexandra Marshall in 1977. They have two grown children.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19948682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19948682", "title": "Kol Mevaser (Yiddish broadcasting)", "text": "Kol Mevaser (Yiddish broadcasting)\n\nKol Mevaser is a Yiddish news hotline. It reports the news, weather, lottery, traffic, and carries interviews and scholarly lectures on various topics of interest to the Yiddish-speaking Orthodox Jewish community. Its phone number is +1 (212) 444-1100.\n\nThe world news, Jewish news, community information, weather, lottery and traffic sections are updated daily. The main broadcaster is Zalmen Wieder and the political and business analysis are given by Yossi Gestetner. Current event interviews are conducted by Yitzchok Shloma Dresnser.\n\nKol Mevaser serves as a replacement for radio broadcasting for the Yiddish-speaking Orthodox Jewish community, which relies heavily on news and information within the community that is delivered in Yiddish.\n\nKol Mevaser was established in 2005 by Zalmen Wieder. To date it is considered one of the main sources of information for the Yiddish-speaking community globally with the largest audience in the USA, Canada, Israel and the U.K.\n\n"}
{"id": "23923935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23923935", "title": "List of Christian denominations affirming LGBT", "text": "List of Christian denominations affirming LGBT\n\nMany Christian denominations do not consider homosexuality or transgender identity to be sins. These include entire religious denominations, as well as individual churches and congregations. Some are composed mainly of non-LGBT members and also have specific programs to welcome LGBT people, while others are composed mainly of LGBT members. \n\nAdditionally, some denominations which are not LGBT-affirming have member-organized groups which are not officially sanctioned by the denomination. There are also ecumenical or para-church programmes that are explicitly outreaches to LGBT people, but do not identify with any particular faith tradition or denomination.\n\nToday some Christian denominations are accepting of homosexuality and transgender identity and inclusive of homosexual and transgender people, such as the United Church of Christ and the Metropolitan Community Church. Formed in 1991, The Evangelical Network is a network of evangelical churches, ministries and Christian Workers that are a part of the LGBT community. The Evangelical Network holds an annual conference and provides education, ministerial support, and networking capabilities.\n\nIn 1946, Archbishop George Hyde of the Eucharistic Catholic Communion (a small denomination not in union with the Roman Catholic Church) celebrated mass for gay men in Atlanta. In 1956, the Church of ONE Brotherhood was founded in Los Angeles by a gay-rights activist. In 1962, a Congregationalist pastor began an overt pastoral ministry to gay people in New York City. The first gay and transgender-specific denomination, as opposed to individual congregations, was the Universal Fellowship of Metropolitan Community Churches in 1968.\n\nSome congregations are merely non-discriminatory and LGBT-affirming while others are specifically oriented toward gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender persons. Some local congregations, especially those designated as \"Welcoming churches\" in the Baptist, Lutheran, Presbyterian, United Church of Christ, Methodist, Episcopal, and Brethren/Mennonite denominations, may consist of a majority of gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender members.\n\nWhile Unitarian Universalism is no longer explicitly a Christian religion, it does have Judeo-Christian roots. Both the Unitarian Universalist Association and the Canadian Unitarian Council have officially affirmed LGBT people and have openly advocated for gay rights.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe following denominations have LGBT-welcoming or affirming programmes, though not all churches within the denomination are necessarily members of the LGBT programme.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9095089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9095089", "title": "List of Christian hospitals in China", "text": "List of Christian hospitals in China\n\nAs of 1937 there were 254 mission hospitals in China, and more than half of these were eventually destroyed by Japanese bombing during World War II or otherwise due to the Second Sino-Japanese War or the Chinese Civil War. After World War II most of these hospitals were at least partially rehabilitated, and eventually passed to the control of the Government of the People's Republic of China, but are still functioning as hospitals.\n\n"}
{"id": "47008124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47008124", "title": "List of encyclicals of Pope Benedict XIV", "text": "List of encyclicals of Pope Benedict XIV\n\nThis article contains a list of Encyclicals of Pope Benedict XIV. The documents below were all written by Benedict XIV.\n\n"}
{"id": "2334630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2334630", "title": "List of universities and colleges affiliated with the Churches of Christ", "text": "List of universities and colleges affiliated with the Churches of Christ\n\nUniversities and colleges affiliated with the Churches of Christ include these institutions:\n"}
{"id": "32661797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32661797", "title": "Lists of venerable people", "text": "Lists of venerable people\n\nThe Venerable is used as a style or epithet in several Christian churches. It is also the common English-language translation of a number of Buddhist titles.\n\nThe following articles contain lists of people with the style or epithet \"The Venerable\", organized by religion:\n\n"}
{"id": "2371477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2371477", "title": "Matthew 5:32", "text": "Matthew 5:32\n\nMatthew 5:32 is the thirty-second verse of the fifth chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament and is part of the Sermon on the Mount. This much scrutinized verse contains part of Jesus' teachings on the issue of divorce.\n\nThe original Koine Greek, according to Westcott and Hort, reads:\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe New International Version translates the passage as:\n\nThe New American Bible translates this passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see BibRef Matthew 5:32\n\nDivorce is discussed in several other parts of the Bible. Malachi 2:16 has God disapproving of divorce, but Deuteronomy 24:1–4 makes clear that it is acceptable under certain circumstances (see Christian views on divorce). A very similar pronouncement on divorce is made by Jesus at Luke 16:18 and Mark 10:11, however neither of those two make an exception for /\"porneia\". Paul of Tarsus quotes Jesus (\"not I but the Lord\") in 1 Corinthians 7:10–11 with no exceptions granted although he (\"I and not the Lord\") goes on to give exceptions. Matthew 19:9 discusses the same issue, and does include the same exception as this verse.\n\nOne of the most debated issues is over the exception to the ban on divorce, which the KJV translates as \"saving for the cause of fornication.\" The Koine Greek word in the exception is \"/porneia\", and it literally translates as \"sexual immorality\" (which some interpret to mean \"fornication\"). One view is that it should be more specifically translated as \"adultery\" or \"marital unfaithfulness\". Instone-Brewer rejects this translation arguing that contemporary sources make clear \"porneia\" meant more than just adultery, he does not agree with the most liberal translations that have the word also refer to things such as spousal abuse.\n\nAt the time of first century Iudaea Province, Pharisaic Judaism was divided between two major groups. The dominant teaching was that of Hillel, who taught that divorce could be granted on a wide array of grounds, even because a wife burnt a dinner. Shammai took a more conservative opinion, arguing that only adultery was valid grounds for divorce.\n\nCurrent mainstream theories of the Synoptic Gospels of Matthew, Mark, and Luke are that they are based upon a single writer whose original verse is that of Mark, with Matthew being the most intended to communicate with the Jewish community. Some scholars feel that in Matthew 5:32 Jesus is endorsing the view of Shammai over Hillel, and arguing for the adultery only rule. Protestant churches have traditionally read \"/porneia\" as adultery. The main argument against this translation is that Matthew has just been discussing adultery in the previous antithesis, and there used the specific term \"/moicheia\", rejecting the vaguer \"/porneia.\"\n\nFollowing their reading of the verse, Protestant churches give prominence to the Gospel of Matthew over Mark and Luke and accepted adultery as a valid grounds for divorce. They also often believe that an innocent divorcee can freely remarry afterwards. \n\nAccording to Bruce Metzger's \"Textual Commentary on the Greek New Testament\", commentary on the \"Apostolic Decree\" of the Council of Jerusalem: \"it is possible ... (fornication means) marriage within the prohibited Levitical degrees (Lv 18.6-18), which the rabbis described as \"forbidden for porneia,\" or mixed marriages with pagans (Nu 25.1; also compare 2 Cor 6.14), or participation in pagan worship which had long been described by Old Testament prophets as spiritual adultery and which, in fact, offered opportunity in many temples for religious prostitution\". Another reading is that the exception refers to the rules surrounding the Jewish betrothal ritual, linking this to , and has no relevance to the modern world. \n\nOther scholars take the opposite view, arguing that the exception was not mentioned in the other Gospels because it was so obvious as to be implicit to contemporary readers. makes clear the punishment for adultery is death, so to Jesus's Jewish audience it would be assumed that adultery meant that the marriage would be over. While at the time of Jesus, and in modern societies, capital punishment is not imposed for adultery several scholars still feel the death sentence is important. Martin Luther argued that since in the eyes of God an adulterer was dead, their spouse was free to remarry. More evidence for this view comes from , which makes clear that the sexual act permanently joins two individuals, so adultery can be understood to have created a new bond erasing the old one. \n\nAnother view is that the exception is not a part of Jesus's teaching, but rather a comment indicating that adultery automatically led to divorce under the law of the time, and that Jesus may very well have disagreed with this law. Instone-Brewer sees no evidence that this is how the law worked in that era, however.\n\nThat adultery is a valid reason for divorce is the standard Protestant position, though some churches disagree. This interpretation was first advanced by Desiderius Erasmus, and received the backing of Martin Luther, John Calvin, and most other major Protestant thinkers. Some Protestants took an even broader view. Swiss reformers Huldrych Zwingli and Heinrich Bullinger both read \"porneia\" as referring to all manner of marital immorality, including spousal abuse and abandonment. Anglican Archbishop Thomas Cranmer, who served under King Henry VIII, listed a considerable number of valid reasons for divorce, but this never became standard Anglican doctrine. The Church of England instead took a far more restrictive view, and adultery was one of the only legal reasons for divorce in Britain up to the twentieth century. The same was true in many parts of the British Empire and the United States.\n\nThe Allegheny Wesleyan Methodist Connection, in its 2014 Discipline, teaches:\nMany mainline Protestants churches have accepted a broader translation of \"porneia\" than just adultery, and now support a wide array of valid reasons for divorce. One modern view is that, since throughout the Sermon on the Mount Jesus condemns the excessive legalism of his day, delineating specific views of divorce from the exact wording of a piece of scripture should be rejected. Several major churches today believe that rules for divorce should be set to best advance Jesus's overarching goals of love and justice, rather than a legalistic interpretation of his words.\n\nThe Orthodox Church has also recognized this verse as permitting divorce for adultery and other reasons, such as spousal abuse, abandonment, and apostasy. In Eastern Orthodox practice, churches are to allow penitential remarriage up to two times after a divorce. A first marriage is celebrated, a second performed, a third tolerated, and a fourth prohibited.\n\nThe verse is important in that it gives a clear argument against divorce as well as an exception that allows divorce, yet it is ambiguous due to mistranslation of the article \"the/a,\" \"which may refer to \"the\" woman who has been divorced because of her own adultery or \"a\" woman who is divorced for no reason. With the article \"a\" assumed, Jesus makes clear that while the divorce may not adversely affect the male, it is forbidden because it forces his wife into sin if she is innocent because women needed to be married to survive. However, if \"the divorced woman\" in the verse refers to the woman who has been divorced because of adultery, the passage means, \"whoever marries an adulteress is an adulterer,\" a meaning that is implied in the King James Version and directly stated in the NIV. This second, more rational meaning is also suggested by the fact that no other version of this statement in the Gospels holds that marrying an unjustly divorced woman is adultery. All other versions of this statement make clear that the one who commits adultery and divorces is the one and only adulterer, which allows the abandoned spouse to remarry.\n\nSome scholars believe that since in this era a woman had few legal rights, she was dependent on her husband for survival. It was thus assumed that a divorced woman would always remarry. Jesus makes clear, only if one accepts the grammatically unsupported interpretation that any remarriage is adultery, that the sin of divorce without cause is in the adulterous nature of a future remarriage, and thus in many jurisdictions where divorce was legal restrictions were still placed on remarriage. This verse does not say whether a second marriage for a divorced man would also be adulterous, but makes clear that the spouse who abandons the relationship for another, and only that spouse, is to be considered the adulterer. This reasoning also explains the logic of the exception for adultery. If the reason to stay married is to not force one's wife to engage in an adulterous second marriage, then if she has already engaged in adultery on her own this justification disappears. Basically, one shouldn't divorce a faithful spouse but may divorce an unfaithful spouse and remarry.\n\nThe reasons Jesus imposed these new rules have also been much discussed. Some scholars feel that under the liberal divorce policy of Hillel men had been marrying woman and then casually divorcing them after they lost interest, deeply injuring the women. As mentioned a divorce could endanger a woman's very survival. Thus some have read Jesus' teachings here as a defense of the rights of the downtrodden wives. Feminist scholar Levine rejects this view. She notes that in this era elaborate prenuptial agreements were negotiated prior to every marriage, and that they invariably included steep financial penalties, known as ketubah, paid by the husband in case of divorce, guaranteeing the wife financial well being even in the case of divorce. This view, if separated from the grammatically chauvinistic moniker of \"feminist\" research and merely considered research like any other written by any woman or man, supports the view that the main reason Jesus spoke in this way is that adultery is cruel and, hence, against God's nature; hence, a cheated-on spouse, as repeated throughout the New Testament in other more clear and concise verses, is free to remarry.\n\n"}
{"id": "7322894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7322894", "title": "Meir ben Judah Leib Poppers", "text": "Meir ben Judah Leib Poppers\n\nMeir ben Judah Leib Poppers or Meir ben Judah Loeb Ha-Kohen Ashkenazi Poppers ( 1624–1662) was a Bohemian rabbi and kabbalist. He was born in Prague and died in Jerusalem in February or March, 1662.\n\nHe studied the Kabbala under Israel Ashkenazi and Jacob Zemah, and he wrote a great number of works, all in the spirit of Isaac Luria; thirty-nine of them have \"Or\" as the beginning of their titles, in reference to his name \"Meir.\" His works which have been published are: \"Or Ẓaddiḳim\" (Hamburg, 1690), a mystical methodology, or exhortation to asceticism, based upon Isaac Luria's writings, the Zohar, and other moral works (an enlarged edition of this work was published later under the title \"Or Ha-Yashar\" [Fürth, 1754]); \"Or Pene Melek\", a treatise on the mysteries of the prayers and commandments, condensed and published under the title \"Sefer Kavanot Tefillot u-Mizvot\" (Hamburg, 1690); \"Me'ore Or\", an alphabetical arrangement of the kabbalistic sacred names found in Isaac Luria's \"Sefer Ha-Kavanot,\" published by Elijah ben Azriel, with the commentary \"Ya'ir Natib\" of Nathan Mannheimer and Jacob ben Benjamin Wolf, under the title \"Me'orot Natan\" (Frankfort-on-the-Main, 1709); \"Mesillot Ḥokmah\" (Shklov, 1785), regulations and rules for the study of the Kabbala.\n\nAmong his unpublished works the following may be mentioned: \"Or Rab\", a commentary on the Zohar; \"Or ha-Abuḳah\", a treatise on the Kabbala; \"Or Zarua\", a commentary on Hayyim Vital's \"Derek 'Eẓ ha-Ḥayyim\"; \"Or Ner\", on the transmigration of souls; \"Or Ẓaḥ\", on the order in which souls are linked together; \"Derushim 'al ha-Torah\", homilies on the Pentateuch; \"Matoḳ ha-Or\", a cabalistic commentary on the Aggadah of the Talmud and Midrash Rabbah.\n\nHe is buried on the Mount of Olives.\n\n"}
{"id": "39555336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39555336", "title": "Mu'adh ibn Muslim", "text": "Mu'adh ibn Muslim\n\nMu'adh ibn Muslim ibn Mu'adh was a general and governor for the Abbasid Caliphate.\n\nHe was a Persian from Khuttal or Rayy, who converted and became a \"mawla\" of the Banu Dhuhl tribe. He participated in the Abbasid Revolution in 737/738, and was a partisan of Abu Muslim. In 766, he was among the army of Marw al-Rudh which was defeated by the rebel al-Muqanna. He served as governor of Khurasan in 778–780, and fought against the Alids in 785/786. He probably died shortly after.\n\nHe was closely connected to the Abbasid family, and his family continued to enjoy high office: one of his sons, Husayn, was a foster-brother of Caliph al-Hadi, while another son, Yahya, served as governor of Syria and Armenia.\n\n"}
{"id": "95759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=95759", "title": "Nuku-mai-tore", "text": "Nuku-mai-tore\n\nIn Māori mythology the Nuku-mai-tore are forest-dwelling spirits. Tura joins Whiro's canoe party, but when it enters a whirlpool he catches the overhanging boughs of a tree and lives among the Nuku-mai-tore, to whom he teaches the use of fire, the art of cooking, and the natural way of childbirth together with the ceremonies attending to the birth of a child (Beckwith 1970:502, White 1887-1891, II:8-15, 17-19).\n\n"}
{"id": "58178716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58178716", "title": "Paleo-Balkan mythology", "text": "Paleo-Balkan mythology\n\nPaleo-Balkan mythology refers to the religious beliefs of the Paleo-Balkan peoples (e.g. Thracians, Illyrians, Dacians, etc.) prior to their assimilation by the Roman pantheon and subsequent Christianization.\n\n"}
{"id": "19715122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19715122", "title": "Phil Solomon (filmmaker)", "text": "Phil Solomon (filmmaker)\n\nPhil Solomon is an American experimental filmmaker noted for his work with both film and video. Recently, Solomon has earned acclaim for a series of films that incorporate machinima made using games from the \"Grand Theft Auto\" series. His films are often described as haunting and lyrical.\n\nSolomon was an associate of the influential American experimental filmmaker Stan Brakhage, with whom he taught film at the University of Colorado in Boulder. Solomon and Brakhage collaborated on three films. In a 1992 poll for the British film magazine Sight & Sound, Brakhage picked Solomon's \"Remains to Be Seen\" as one of the ten greatest films of all time. The film had previously been selected as one of the top ten films of 1989 by the \"Village Voice\".\n\nSolomon was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1994. In 2007, he was the recipient of the Thatcher Hoffman Smith Award from the University of Oklahoma. In 2012 Solomon received the Knight Fellowship of the USA (United States Artists) Fellows program, alongside such luminaries as novelist Annie Proulx, sculptor Alison Saar, jazz musician Jack DeJohnette, dancer and choreographer Trisha Brown, and artist Theaster Gates.\n\nOn April 10, 2010, Solomon's \"American Falls\" opened at the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. The six-projection video/sound installation received great acclaim before closing in July 2010. In conjunction with the Corcoran exhibition, Solomon's career as a filmmaker was explored in \"Rhapsodies in Silver,\" a three-program survey at Washington's National Gallery of Art.\n\nA re-edited, feature-length, single-projection version of \"American Falls\" was featured at the New York Film Festival's \"Views from the Avant Garde\" on October 1, 2010. The single projection version of the film condenses the original multi-projector format into a triptych, placing three independent (yet associative) images next to one another. In Fall 2012, Solomon screened a three-channel version of \"American Falls\" at the Museum of the Moving Image in Astoria, New York, as part of the exhibition \"Film After Film.\"\n\nIn the May/June 2010 Film Comment poll, The Top 50 Avant-Garde Filmmakers of the Decade, Phil Solomon placed at number 5, tied with his late colleague, Stan Brakhage.\n\nOriginally from New York City, Solomon attended Binghamton University and received an MFA from the Massachusetts College of Art. One of Solomon's instructors was the experimental filmmaker Ken Jacobs, who started his first class with a screening of Tony Conrad's film \"The Flicker\". Solomon initially disliked the film, but the experience, followed by a screening of his future collaborator Stan Brakhage's \"Blue Moses\", had a profound impact on his development as a filmmaker. Another formative experience came in the form of a lecture by critic Fred Camper on Brakhage's \"Anticipation of the Night\".\n\nSolomon began making films in 1975. Solomon has since destroyed some of his early works, many of which were made in imitation of Brakhage.\n\nSolomon has been teaching at the University of Colorado since 1991.\n\nThe Academy Film Archive has preserved a few of Phil Solomon's films, including \"As If We,\" \"Twilight Psalm I: The Lateness of the Hour,\" and \"What's Out Tonight Is Lost.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44204579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44204579", "title": "Religion in Greenland", "text": "Religion in Greenland\n\nThe majority of the Greenlandic population is Christian and associates with the Church of Denmark, which is Protestant in classification and Lutheran in orientation. The Church of Denmark is the established church through the Constitution of Denmark; this applies to all of the Kingdom of Denmark, except for the Faroe Islands, as the Church of the Faroe Islands became independent in 2007. But traditional Inuit spiritual beliefs remain strong in many of Greenland's remote communities.\n\nLutheranism, mostly represented by the Church of Denmark, is the predominant religious category within Christianity, followed by small communities of Baptists, Mormons, Roman Catholics, Jehovah's Witnesses and Seventh-day Adventists.\n\nChristianity was first brought to Greenland in 1000 by Norse settlers. For reasons of climate and snowstorms, the Norse settlers left the island.\n\nBy the 18th century, the Norse returned. When Norway and Denmark separated in 1814, Greenland remained Danish, though with a certain degree of autonomy necessitated by its remoteness. Today, the Church of Denmark is still the predominant religious preference in the country, but with a degree of autonomy, including its own bishop, 19 parishes divided among 3 deaneries, 40 churches or chapels, and 25 vicars or priests.\n\nEthnographically 80% of the population is divided between the Inuit population and population mixed with Inuit and Danish. It is said that the Inuit population is descended from Siberians who crossed from Asia to North America on that island. In Greenland although less than 1% of the residents practice Inuit spiritual beliefs, within the culture of Greenland, the presence of shamanism is widespread.\n\n"}
{"id": "33275445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33275445", "title": "Revised Joint Ministerial Decrees on Construction of Houses of Worship", "text": "Revised Joint Ministerial Decrees on Construction of Houses of Worship\n\nOn 21 March 2006, the Indonesian Ministers of Religious Affairs and Home Affairs issued a decree that is commonly referred to as the Joint Decree on Houses of Worship. The decree issued as Ministry of Religious Affairs decree No. 9 of 2006 and Ministry of Home Affairs decree No. 8 of 2006. A translation of the full title is \"Regulation of Duties of Regional Head and Deputy in Maintaining Religious Harmony, Empowering the Forum of Religious Harmony, and Constructing Places of Worship\".\n\nThe decree is a revision of a joint decree issued in 1969 by the Indonesian Home Affairs Minister and Religious Affairs Minister and which covers building houses of prayer. In 1967-1969, churches were attacked, sometimes destroyed, on Sumatra, Sulawesi, and Java. These violent episodes appeared to have been triggered by construction of buildings for religious minorities. In response, on 13 September 1969, the Ministers of Religion and Home Affairs issued Joint Ministerial Decree 1/1969 to control construction of places of worship and to govern religious practices in general.\n\nAccording to Article 14 of the 2006 decree, a permit for constructing a house of worship should issue when the applicant obtains: \n\nArticle 14 requires local governments to find an alternative or temporary venue for services if the group cannot meet one of the requirements. Article 21 requires that local governments fairly mediate disputes.\n\nWhile the government of Indonesia asserted that the purpose of the 2006 decree was to reduce inter-faith conflict, many persons and organizations assert that the decree is , is contrary to treaties ratified by Indonesia, and has increased inter-faith conflict and the ability of a region's majority faith to suppress other faiths. Others note that the decree's requirements create opportunities for corruption.\n\nSpecific concerns raised regarding the 2006 decree include:\n\n\nOn the other hand, some (including minority religious organizations) have suggested that the 2006 decree is better than nothing. Such organizations note that the decree provides a minority religious organization with at least a legal argument that it is entitled to a permit. Such commentators suggest that the decree would be acceptable if implemented in a consistent and expedited manner, with charges of \"disturbance of public order\" applied to opposing vigilantes rather than applicants. Further, certain regions appear to be encountering less inter-faith strife than others.\n\nFreedom of religion in Indonesia\n"}
{"id": "14523566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14523566", "title": "Riccoldo da Monte di Croce", "text": "Riccoldo da Monte di Croce\n\nRiccoldo da Monte di Croce or Ricoldo of Monte Croce (Pennini, that is \"son of Pennino\"; ), 1243 – 1320, was an Italian Dominican monk, travel writer, missionary, and Christian apologist.\n\nRiccoldo was born in Florence, and his family name originated from a small castle just above Pontassieve. After studying in various major European schools, he became a Dominican in 1267, entering the house of Santa Maria Novella. He was a professor in several convents of Tuscany, including St Catherine in Pisa (1272–99). With a papal commission to preach he departed for Acre (Antiochia Ptolemais) in 1286 or 1287 and made a pilgrimage to the Holy Land (1288) and then travelled for many years as a missionary in western Asia. He arrived in Mossul in 1289, equipped with a Papal bull. He failed to convince the Nestorian Christian mayor of the city to convert to Catholicism. He was a missionary to the court of the Mongol Il-Khan ruler Arghun, of whom he wrote that he was \"a man given to the worst of villainy, but for all that a friend of the Christians\".\n\nMoving to Baghdad, Riccoldo entered in conflict with the local Nestorian Christians, preaching against them in their own cathedral. He was allowed nonetheless by Mongol authorities to build his own church, with the interdiction to preach in public. Riccoldo brought the matter to the Nestorian patriarch Mar Yaballaha, who agreed with him that the doctrine of Nestorius, namely the duality of Christ (thus achieving a theoretical fusion of the Latin Church and the Church of the East) was heretical. Mar Yaballaha was however disavowed by his own followers.\n\nHe returned to Florence before 1302, and was chosen to high offices in his order. He died in Florence on 31 October 1320.\n\nHis \"Liber Peregrinacionis\" or \"Itinerarius\" (written about 1288–91) was intended as a guide-book for missionaries, and is a description of the Oriental countries he visited.\n\nIn 1288 or 1289 he began to keep a record of his experiences in the Levant; this record he probably reduced to final book form in Baghdad. Entering Syria at Acre, he crossed Galilee to the Sea of Tiberias; thence returning to Acre he seems to have travelled down the coast to Jaffa, and so up to Jerusalem. After visiting the Jordan River and the Dead Sea he left Palestine by the coast road, retracing his steps to Acre and passing on by Tripoli and Tortosa into Cilicia. From the Cilician port of Lajazzo (now Yumurtalik in Turkey) he started on the great high road to Tabriz in north Persia. Crossing the Taurus he travelled on by Sivas of Cappadocia to Erzerum, the neighborhood of Ararat and Tabriz. In and near Tabriz he preached for several months, after which he proceeded to Baghdad via Mosul and Tikrit. In Baghdad he stayed several years.\n\nAs a traveller and observer his merits are conspicuous. His account of the Tatars and his sketch of Islamic religion and manners are especially noteworthy. In spite of strong prejudice, he shows remarkable breadth of view and appreciation of merit in systems the most hostile to his own.\n\nThe \"Epistolæ de Perditione Acconis\" are five letters in the form of lamentations over the fall of Acre (written about 1292, published in Paris, 1884).\n\nDuring his stay in Baghdad, Riccoldo studied the \"Qur'an\" and other works of Islamic theology, for controversial purposes, arguing with Nestorian Christians, and writing. In 1300–1301 Riccoldo again appeared in Florence. About 1300 in Florence he wrote \"Contra legem Sarracenorum\" and \"Ad nationes orientales.\"\n\nRiccoldo's best known work of this kind was the \"Contra Legem Sarracenorum\", written in Baghdad, which has in previous centuries been very popular among Christians as a polemical source against Islam, and has been often edited (first published in Seville, 1500, under the title \"Confutatio Alcorani\", \"Confutation of the Koran\"). This work was translated into German (\"Verlegung des Alcoran\") by Martin Luther in 1542. There are translations into English by Thomas C. Pfotenhauer (\"Islam in the Crucible: Can it pass the test?\", Lutheran News, Inc., 2002), and Londini Ensis, under the title, \"Refutation of the Koran\" (Createspace 2010).\n\nMuch of this work's contents derive from those sections of the \"Liber Peregrinacionis\" devoted to Muslim beliefs and related topics. One of Riccoldo's major sources, extensively quoted in his own work, is the anonymous \"Liber denudationis siue ostensionis aut patefaciens\". Despite Riccoldo's hostility towards Islam, his work shows specific knowledge of the Qur'an and overcomes one important prejudicial error common to other Medieval criticisms of Islam: the view of Muhammad as introducer of a Christological heresy.\n\nThe \"Christianæ Fidei Confessio facta Sarracenis\" (printed in Basle, 1543) is attributed to Riccoldo, and was probably written about the same time as the above-mentioned works. Other works are: \"Contra errores Judæorum\" (Against the Errors of the Jews); \"Libellus contra nationes orientales\" (MSS. at Florence and Paris); \"Contra Sarracenos et Alcoranum\" (MS. at Paris); \"De variis religionibus\" (MS. at Turin; compare the final chapter of the \"Liber Peregrinacionis\", \"De variis religionibus terre sancte\"). Very probably the last three works were written after his return to Europe. Riccoldo is also known to have written two theological works—a defence of the doctrines of Thomas Aquinas (in collaboration with John of Pistoia, about 1285) and a commentary on the \"Libri sententiarum\" (before 1288). Riccoldo began a translation of the Quran about 1290, but it is not known whether this work was completed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46252966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46252966", "title": "Saint Joseph's Church, Brussels", "text": "Saint Joseph's Church, Brussels\n\nSaint Joseph's Church is situated in Frère Orban square, in the Leopold Quarter, in the center of Brussels. It is a national sanctuary dedicated to Saint Joseph who has been patron saint of Belgium since 1679.\n\nInspired by the church of Trinità dei Monti in Rome, Tilman-François Suys decided to created a church resembling one of Rome's many basilicas with a flat apse choir. The first stone of the building was laid by Cardinal Engelbert Sterckx on April 6, 1842. The Apostolic Nuncio, Cardinal Giacomo Cattani, consecrated the church on June 24, 1874 and also made it the National Shrine of Saint Joseph.\n\nThe church was occupied by the Redemptorists for many decades until it was looked after by the Syriac Orthodox from 1989 to 2001. The church was then acquired by the Priory of Christ the King of the Society of St. Pius X, offering a much needed place of worship for their growing number of parishioners.\n\nThe church has three naves measuring a total of 66 meters long and 26 meters wide. Its vault is 18 meters high and is supported by two rows of Corinthian columns that separate the two aisles of the main church.\n\n"}
{"id": "18763449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18763449", "title": "Sheikh Sharaf ad-Din ibn al-Hasan", "text": "Sheikh Sharaf ad-Din ibn al-Hasan\n\nShaykh Sharaf ad-Dīn ibn al-Hasan, known also by the Yazidi name. He was the son and religious heir of al-Hasan ibn ‘Adī and thus head of the ‘Adawiyya Ṣūfī Order. He died in battle against the Mongols in 1258 and was succeeded by his uncle, Fakhr ad-Dīn ibn ‘Adī.\n\nThe Sherfedin sanctuary is considered to be one of the oldest and most important Yazidi sites.\n"}
{"id": "41899439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41899439", "title": "The Fake (2013 film)", "text": "The Fake (2013 film)\n\nThe Fake () is a 2013 South Korean animated film written and directed by Yeon Sang-ho.\n\nThe film had its world premiere in the Vanguard section of the 2013 Toronto International Film Festival on September 7, 2013, and went on to screen at various international film festivals before being released domestically on November 21, 2013. It won Best Animation awards at the Sitges Film Festival and Gijón International Film Festival, and was named the Best Korean Independent Film of 2013 by the Association of Korean Independent Film & Video.\n\nA blistering critique of organized religion set in a rural village where a manipulative church minister schemes to defraud his flock, \"The Fake\" is Yeon's sophomore feature after the acclaimed and divisive \"The King of Pigs\" (2011).\n\nWith their municipality scheduled to be flooded to make way for the construction of a new dam, the devout denizens of a rural village have placed their faith in Choi Gyeong-seok, a church elder who promises to relocate the flock. Choi tells the villagers they will build a church and a new housing development where they will all be able to live together after the town is completely submerged. He also says that only 144,000 people can go to heaven, and that church offerings are mandatory if one wants to \"secure their spot.\" Even the town's much-revered Reverend Sung, a young and good-looking minister who seemingly has the ability to heal the sick, approves of Choi's plans. Behind his guise of devotion, however, Choi is a practiced con man posing as a representative of a fake religion; his true aim is to defraud the villagers of their resettlement compensation. The only obstacle to the scheme is Kim Min-chul, a skeptical outcast who accidentally discovers evidence of Choi's past misdeeds and suddenly finds himself becoming the center of resistance against the church institution.\n\nBut Min-chul himself is hardly a saint. One of the village's most vile and untrustworthy characters, Min-chul is a low-life neighborhood thug who gambles and drinks too much. He regularly beats his wife and daughter Young-sun, a young factory worker who's been saving up for her lifelong dream of going to college in Seoul.\n\nNo one in the village believes Min-chul and his attempts to expose Choi to the authorities fall on deaf ears. But after Young-sun is forced into prostitution by Choi, Min-chul becomes obsessed with revenge and makes a fateful decision to take matters into his own hands.\n\n\n\"The Fake\" went on limited release in South Korea on November 21, 2013. It received almost 22,000 admissions, which is a solid figure for a low-budget independent film.\n\nThe film also had a one-week theatrical run from November 15–20, 2013 at the CGV Cinema in Koreatown, Los Angeles, in order to qualify for submission to the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature. It did not get nominated.\n\n\"The Fake\" was screened at the following film festivals:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7171763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7171763", "title": "The Salvation Army U.S.A. Central Territory", "text": "The Salvation Army U.S.A. Central Territory\n\nThe Salvation Army USA Central Territory is one of the four territories The Salvation Army is divided into within the USA. The Central Territory covers 11 states in the heart of the USA. The Central Territory is headquartered in Hoffman Estates, Illinois. The Central Territory is subdivided into 10 different divisions, all under different leaders, each reporting directly to the territorial commander. Each of the divisions has their own headquarters and also camp facilities.\n\nThe Central Territory runs 2,342 centers of operations. Those operations include Churches (\"corps community centers\"), Social Service centers, camps, and many other types of operations, and Adult Rehabilitation Centers. The college that all officers (pastors in The Salvation Army) must attend is a two-year college which is located in the heart of Chicago, Illinois. The college is known as the College for Officer Training.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39094982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39094982", "title": "Veleslav", "text": "Veleslav\n\nVolhv Veleslav (Cyrillic: Волхв Велеслав) (born Ilya Cherkasov (Cyrillic: Илья Черкасов), October 8, 1973), also known as Влх. Велеслав (Vlh. Veleslav)] and V.L.S.L.V., is a Russian Rodnover priest. He is also an author, artist, poet, teacher and lecturer. Veleslav is the founder of Rodolubie (Rodoljub) and the Veles Circle. His early works form the basis of the Slavic neopaganism movement and its reconstruction. Veleslav is the author of several books on Russian and Slavic traditions, including \"The Doctrine/Teachings of the Magi: The White Book\" (2007, 2nd ed. 2010); \"The Black Book of Mary\" (2008); \"Living Vedas of Russ: Revelations of Native Gods\" (2008); the \"Book of Veles's Tales\" (2005), and \"The Book of the Great Navi\" (2011), amongst many others. He has also contributed to the first magazine for Rodnovers, \"Родноверие\".\n\nSince childhood, Veleslav has been fond of history, and while still a child he enthusiastically read Russian folk tales and epics. He attended the \"School of the young historian\" at Moscow State University. Upon leaving for the summer holidays to visit the village of Semenovskoe, near Tver, he listened with great enthusiasm to stories of old \"former life\" and gathered together local folklore, including songs, stories, plots, bylichki and legends. Seeking an answer to the question about the meaning of life soon led Veleslav to an independent spiritual quest.\n\nIn 1990, Veleslav graduated from high school, but instead of going to the MSU faculty of history and philosophy as his family and friends expected, he announced that he was not interested in a career as a scientist, historian or philosopher, claiming that they \"speak of truth, without knowing her\". After sewing together a Russian burlap shirt, he stopped eating meat, cut his hair, and began practicing yoga as well as other spiritual disciplines. At that time in Russia there were many different sects and spiritual teachings, and the ROC began to gain momentum. Veleslav communicated with the followers of these groups and was interested in the essence of their teachings, but he did not join any of them, considering that truth is \"realised in the heart, and not by following any doctrine, church dogma, or the partial view of a religious leader.\"\n\nIn 1992, Veleslav wrote his first book, \"Samizdat\", \"The Doctrine of the Heart.\" Soon Veleslava gathered around him a small group of like-minded people who were united by a spiritual quest.\n\nOn February 24, 1998, together with like-minded people, Veleslav announced the creation of the Russian-Slavic Rodnovercheskoy Communities, \"Rodoljub\", and a spiritual and educational society, \"Satya Veda\" (Sanskrit, \"True Knowledge\"), which during the first year operated as a single unit.\n\nAccording to Veleslav, this date (February 24, 1998) marked the official date of his community. This was followed by a period of relatively short duration (one year), but which was nevertheless very significant in its results. It was at this time that the foundation was laid for the future community: developing and maintaining a ritual practice; and a worldview was formed... May 12, 1998, was the date of the first public ceremony for the reconstructed houses in the near Teply Stan. The ritual began with the worship of Veles, the Slavic God of Wisdom, Spiritual Patron of the community, and was aimed at the reunification of the participating forces with Native Gods. One year the community's pagan temple was desecrated by Christians: a ritual statue of Veles was thrown into the running water of a nearby stream; a stone Alatyrny svorochen was thrown from a mountain, and the remaining logs were cut with \"Orthodox\" crosses. This caused the community to equip a new temple in the more distant location where it still stands today.\n\nIn 1999, Veleslav, together with a group of Commonwealth Communities, created the \"Veles Circle\", which still exists today. The stated objectives of the Veles Circle are:\n\n\nHe is featured performing a speech on \"Noch Velesova\", a 2009 DVD by the band Arkona. Veleslav's artwork is featured in the 2012 book \"Родные Боги в творчестве славянских художников\" by Dr. Pavel Tulaev.\n\nIn the book \"Gap\" by Askr Svarte, he devotes to Veleslav gratitude for teachings on the Path.\n\n\nVeleslav has written several books on Advaita Saiva Dharma (the teachings of non-dual Shaivism) and Tantra under the pseudonym Satyavan (from Sanskrit \"Satya\" - \"The Truth\"). From the publishing house Сатья-Веда (Satya-Veda):\nFrom Moscow Institute of Humanities Studies:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "448579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=448579", "title": "Verginia", "text": "Verginia\n\nVerginia, or Virginia (ca. 465 BC449 BC), was the subject of a story of ancient Rome, related in Livy's \"Ab Urbe Condita\".\n\nThe people of Rome were already angry with the decemviri for not calling the proper elections, taking bribes, and other abuses. It seemed that they were returning to the rule of the Kings of Rome who had been overthrown only a few decades before. In 451 BC, Appius Claudius began to lust after Verginia, a beautiful plebeian girl and the daughter of Lucius Verginius, a respected centurion. Verginia was betrothed to Lucius Icilius, a former tribune of the plebs, and when she rejected Claudius, Claudius had one of his clients, Marcus Claudius, claim that she was actually his slave. Marcus Claudius then abducted her while she was on her way to school. The crowd in the Forum objected to this, as both Verginius and Icilius were well-respected men, and they forced Marcus Claudius to bring the case before the decemvirs, led by Appius Claudius himself. Verginius was recalled from the field to defend his daughter, and Icilius, after threats of violence, succeeded in having Verginia returned to her house while the court waited for her father to appear. Claudius tried to have his own supporters intercept the messengers sent to summon Verginius, but they arrived too late to delay Verginius' arrival.\n\nWhen Verginius arrived two days later he gathered his supporters in the Forum. Claudius, however, would not let him speak, and declared that Verginia was indeed Marcus Claudius' slave. Appius Claudius had brought an armed escort with him and accused the citizens of sedition. The supporters of Verginius left the Forum rather than cause any violence, and Verginius begged to question his daughter himself. Claudius agreed to this, but Verginius grabbed a knife and, at the Shrine of Venus Cloacina, he stabbed Verginia, the only way he felt he could uphold her freedom. Verginius and Icilius were arrested, and their supporters returned to attack the lictors and destroy their fasces. This led to the overthrow of the decemviri and the re-establishment of the Roman Republic.\n\nLivy compared this story to the rape of Lucretia and the overthrow of the monarchy in 509 BC.\n\nThe tale is retold, with varying fidelity, in several works of Western literature, including Geoffrey Chaucer's \"The Physician's Tale\" in his \"Canterbury Tales\", in Thomas Babington Macaulay's \"Lays of Ancient Rome\", and in the play \"Appius and Virginia\" by John Webster and Thomas Heywood, which includes the following lines:\n\nVerginia is also mentioned in \"Titus Andronicus\" and her story, with a twist, is also told in Steven Saylor's \"Roma\".\n\n"}
{"id": "5730878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5730878", "title": "Wei Huacun", "text": "Wei Huacun\n\nWei Huacun (252–334), courtesy name Xianan (賢安), was a founder of the Shangqing sect of Daoism.\n\nWei was born in 252 in Jining, Shandong in the former county of Rencheng (任城). Her father, Wei Shu (魏舒), was a government official. From an early age she displayed a propensity for studying the works of Laozi and Zhuangzi, and practising Daoist methods of cultivation. \n\nAt the age of 24, she was married to Liu Wen (劉文) against her will by her parents and had two sons. After they grew up, she resumed her Daoist practices. At some point she became a libationer in the priesthood of the Celestial Masters sect of Daoism. \n\nAccording to her Shangqing hagiographers, her devotion to Daoist cultivation so impressed a number of immortals that she received revelations from them 31 volumes of Daoist scriptures which would become the foundation of Shangqing Daoism. Among these was the \"Yellow Court Classic\" (黃庭經), which detailed a form of Daoist meditation involving the visualizations of deities within the adept's body, a practice that would become a defining feature of Shangqing. Shangqing has sometimes been described as a \"mystical\" form of Daoism, emphasising the notion of the human body as a microcosm containing universal energies, which could be actualised by ecstatic union with deities. With the emphasis on meditation, there would be much less attention paid to physiological cultivation by ingesting herbs and drugs, which had been important in earlier forms of Daoism. \n\nWhen Wei's disciple Yang Xi (楊羲) formally founded the Shangqing school, 30 years after her death, Wei was acknowledged as the first \"patriarch\" of Shangqing Daoism and, as an immortal, would be a source of continuing revelations. The sect would be centred on Mao Mountain (茅山), situated to the south of Nanjing, and would thus be also known as the Maoshan sect. From the 6th to the 10th century, Shangqing would be the most prominent Daoist sect and would gain favour among aristocrats of the Tang dynasty. The Shangqing scriptures were regarded as possessing a high literary quality that previous Daoist scriptures did not, and their vivid esoteric imagery was an inspiration to artists and poets.\n\n"}
{"id": "14298287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14298287", "title": "Yapaniya", "text": "Yapaniya\n\nYapaniya was a Jain order in western Karnataka which is now extinct. The first inscription that mentions them by Mrigesavarman (AD 475-490) a Kadamba king of Palasika who donated for a Jain temple, and made a grant to the sects of Yapaniyas, Nirgranthas (identifiable as Digambaras), and the Kurchakas (not identified). \n\nThe last inscription which mentioned the Yapaniyas was found in the Tuluva region southwest Karnataka, dated Saka 1316 (AD 1394).\n\nAccording to Darshana-Sara, they were a branch of the Svetambara sect. However, they were regarded to be Digambara by Swetambar authors. The Yapaniya monks remained naked but followed some Svetamabar views. They also possessed their own versions of texts that have been preserved in the Svetambar tradition. The Yapaniya monks wore a piece of cloth while in public and remained naked while in secluded area like forests. \n\nThe great grammarian Shakatayana, who was a contemporary of the Rashtrakuta king Amoghavarsha (c. 817-877), was a Yapaniya, as mentioned by Malayagira in his commentary on the NandiSutra.\n\nYapanya rose to its dominance in second century CE and declined after their migration to Deccan merging with Digambara or Svetambara.\n\n"}
