{"id": "26855542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26855542", "title": "1980–81 WIHL season", "text": "1980–81 WIHL season\n\n1980-81 was the 34th season of the Western International Hockey League.\n\n\nBest of 7\n\n\nIn the \"best of 7\" final, Kimberley Dynamiters defeated Cranbrook Royals 4 games to 2 (7-3, 7-4, 7-3, 4-11, 5-11, 3-1) to advance to the 1980-81 British Columbia Senior Playoffs.\n"}
{"id": "52348815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52348815", "title": "2015 in cycling", "text": "2015 in cycling\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19493939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19493939", "title": "AS Police (Pointe-Noire)", "text": "AS Police (Pointe-Noire)\n\nAS Police de Pointe-Noire is a Congolese football club based in Pointe-Noire. \n"}
{"id": "40219382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40219382", "title": "Ahmed Borhane", "text": "Ahmed Borhane\n\nBorhane Abro, (born 1995) is a Djiboutian swimmer. He competed in the 50, 100 m freestyle, 50 m butterfly and 100 m butterfly events at the 2012 FINA World Swimming Championships (25 m). Borhane also took part in the 50 m freestyle and 50 m butterfly events at the 2013 World Aquatics Championships.\n"}
{"id": "296270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=296270", "title": "Arsenal Stadium", "text": "Arsenal Stadium\n\nArsenal Stadium was a football stadium in Highbury, North London, which was the home ground of Arsenal Football Club between 6 September 1913 and 7 May 2006. It was popularly known as \"Highbury\" due to its location and was given the affectionate nickname of the \"Home of Football\" by the club.\n\nIt was originally built in 1913 on the site of a local college's recreation ground and was significantly redeveloped twice. The first reconstruction came in the 1930s from which the Art Deco East and West Stands date. There was a second development; the first phase was completed in 1989 which added executive boxes to the Clock End, and afterwards in 1993 a new North Bank Stand was constructed, both following the recommendations of the Taylor Report which replaced the terraces to make the stadium an all-seater with four stands. However, further attempts to expand the stadium were blocked by the community, and the resulting reduction in capacity and matchday revenue eventually led to Arsenal opting to build a new stadium, to become known as the Emirates Stadium in nearby Islington. After the club moved to their new stadium upon the conclusion of the 2005–2006 season, Highbury was redeveloped as a residential development known as Highbury Square, with the Clock End and North Bank stands being demolished; parts of the East and West Stands remained and were incorporated into the new development due to their listed status.\n\nThe stadium also hosted international matches – both for England and in the 1948 Summer Olympics – and FA Cup semi-finals, as well as boxing, baseball and cricket matches. Its presence also led to the local London Underground station being renamed to Arsenal in 1932, making it the only station on the Underground network to be named after a football club.\n\nIn addition to its architecture, the stadium was known for its small but immaculate pitch and for the clock which had been positioned in the southern side of the ground since its introduction in 1930.\n\nThe original stadium was built in 1913, when Woolwich Arsenal moved from the Manor Ground in Plumstead, South East London to Highbury, leasing the recreation fields of St John's College of Divinity for £20,000. The lease negotiation also agreed that no matches were to be played on \"holy days\" and that no \"intoxicating liquor\" would be sold at the stadium; however, these stipulations were dropped within a year. The stadium was hurriedly built over the summer of that year, and was designed by Archibald Leitch, architect of many other football grounds of that era. It featured a single stand on the eastern side and the other three sides had banked terracing. The new stadium cost £125,000. It opened whilst not fully complete, with Arsenal's first match of the 1913–14 season, a 2–1 Second Division win against Leicester Fosse on 6 September 1913. Leicester's Tommy Benfield scored the first goal at the new ground while George Jobey was the first Arsenal player to do so. Highbury hosted its first England match in 1920.\n\nThe Australian rugby league team suffered the first loss of their 1921–22 Kangaroo tour of Great Britain at Highbury to an English side 4 points to 5 before approximately 12,000 spectators.\n\nArsenal bought the stadium site outright in 1925, for £64,000.\n\nNo significant portion of Leitch's original stadium remains today following a series of bold redevelopments during the 1930s. The idea was to create a ground for London that could capture the grandeur of Villa Park, home of Birmingham club Aston Villa. The Highbury project was ambitious in its scale and reach, the first stand completed being the West Stand, designed by Claude Waterlow Ferrier and William Binnie in the Art Deco style which opened in 1932. On 5 November the same year the local Tube station was renamed from Gillespie Road to Arsenal. Leitch's main stand was demolished to make way for a new East Stand, matching the West, in 1936. The West Stand cost £45,000 while the East Stand went far over budget and ended up costing £130,000, mainly thanks to the expense of the facade. The North Bank terrace was given a roof and the southern terrace had a clock fitted to its front, giving it the name the Clock End.\nDuring the 1948 Summer Olympics, the stadium hosted the football preliminaries. For the next 50 years, the stadium changed little, although during the Second World War the North Bank terrace was bombed and had to be rebuilt; the roof was not restored until 1956. Floodlights were fitted in 1951, with the first floodlit match being a friendly against Hapoel Tel Aviv on 19 September of that year. The floodlights that adorn Dalymount Park, once stood at the Arsenal stadium. They were shipped to Dublin in 1962. The inaugural floodlit match saw Arsenal beat Bohemians 3–8. Undersoil heating was added in 1964. Unlike at many other grounds, Arsenal refused to install perimeter fencing, even at the height of hooliganism in the 1980s, which made it ineligible for use as an FA Cup semi-final venue.\n\nBefore the Taylor report and the era of all-seater stadiums in Britain, both the North Bank and Clock End consisted of terracing, and the stadium often saw crowds of up to 60,000 or more; its largest attendance was 73,295 on 9 March 1935 when Arsenal played Sunderland in the First Division; the game finished 0–0. When the ground was initially constructed, it was to \"accommodate 90,000 spectators\".\n\nThe Clock End was redeveloped in 1988–89 with the addition of a roof and 48 executive boxes, while seating was fitted into the remaining standing area in 1993.\n\nIn the early 1990s, the Taylor report on the Hillsborough disaster was published, which recommended that football stadia become all-seater. The North Bank, which had become home of Arsenal's most passionate supporters, was demolished at the end of the 1991–92 season. During redevelopment, a giant mural of fans was placed behind the goal at that end, to give the illusion that the players were kicking towards a crowd rather than a construction site. The mural initially attracted criticism for its absence of black fans, which was quickly rectified. Populous (then LOBB Partnership) designed all-seater two-tier North Bank Stand, the last area of Highbury to be refurbished, which was opened in August 1993 at a cost of £20 million amid strong opposition from local residents. The new North Bank Stand contained a museum and a concourse with video arcades, bars, confectionery counters, souvenir shops and fast-food stands. While the all-seater North Bank was \"never the same as the old-fashioned Archibald Leitch stand\" that it replaced, it was \"much more like the future of Arsenal than the past\" with its added amenities and \"Gone were the days of pushing a petrified child through a packed crowd and placing them on a barrier from which they could only see a small section of the pitch\". The old stand had received a fitting send off with a 5–1 defeat of Southampton, though the new stand had a less auspicious start, the first game being a surprise 0–3 defeat to Coventry City with all 3 goals coming from striker Micky Quinn. The first victory came 10 days later against Leeds United.\n\nAt the time of its closure, the stadium consisted of four separate all-seater stands; the pitch was aligned north-south, with the North Bank Stand (formerly the Laundry End) and South Stand (popularly known as the Clock End) at the ends of the field. The East and West Stands ran alongside the pitch and are two of the few examples of British football stands designed in the Art Deco style. The East Stand incorporated the club's offices and was well known for its marble halls (though the floors were actually terrazzo) which are often cited in media depictions of the stadium, and the facade that faces onto Avenell Road. The East Stand is considered architecturally significant enough to have been designated a Grade II listed building.\n\nThe stadium's main entrances were on Gillespie Road, Avenell Road and Highbury Hill. When it closed, Highbury had a capacity of 38,419 (approximately 12,500 in the North Bank, 11,000 in the West Stand, 9,000 in the East Stand and 6,000 in the Clock End), all seated, and had Jumbotron screens in the south-east and north-west corners.\n\nArsenal Stadium was well known for its very small immaculately-kept pitch, which measured only 109×73 yards (100×67 metres). Arsenal's groundsmen, Steve Braddock and his successor Paul Burgess, have won the FA Premier League's Groundsman of the Year award several times for their work on the stadium.\n\nThe post-Taylor capacity of Highbury was limited to 38,419, while Arsenal's success during the 1990s and 2000s meant that virtually every home match was filled to near capacity. Restrictions, such as the East Stand's status as a listed building and the fact the stadium was surrounded on all sides by a residential area, made any future expansion of Highbury difficult and expensive, although the club's directors would have liked to have kept Arsenal at a modernized and expanded Highbury. In October 1998, just after Arsenal started playing Champions League games at Wembley, the club made an unsuccessful bid to buy the stadium and make it their permanent home to share with the England national football team, although at the time Wembley was two years away from closure for a redevelopment which was not completed until more than six years later.\n\nIn November 1999, Arsenal decided to leave Highbury and construct a new 60,000-seat stadium in nearby Ashburton Grove. It was confirmed in October 2004 that the new stadium would be called the Emirates Stadium as part of a sponsorship deal with Emirates Airlines. The stadium opened in July 2006; Arsenal's offices were moved to a new building, Highbury House, which was named in commemoration of the former stadium.\n\nFor their final season at Highbury (2005–06) Arsenal ran a series of promotions honouring the stadium's legacy. A commemorative logo was designed featuring the club's traditional Art Deco crest from the 1930s, and the club's history at Highbury was celebrated through a series of themed matchdays. On the field, Arsenal temporarily set aside their traditional red shirts with white sleeves for the season and adopted a solid redcurrant shirt, the colour they wore during their first season at Highbury in 1913–14.\n\nArsenal's final game at the stadium was their FA Premier League match on 7 May 2006 against Wigan Athletic, the last game of the season. The team needed to better the result of neighbours Tottenham Hotspur to again secure qualification for the Champions League. Having been 2–1 behind, a hat trick by captain and all-time leading goal scorer Thierry Henry secured qualification, with Henry kneeling down to kiss the turf on scoring what proved to be the final goal seen at the stadium. The last goal scored in a regulation game at the stadium came in a Football Aid charity match when lifelong fan Alan Alger scored a penalty in the final minute of a fixture played on Thursday 8 June 2006 (exactly one month and one day after Henry's goal). After the stadium's closure, Arsenal held an auction to sell off many of the stadium's parts, including pieces of the pitch, the goalposts and former manager George Graham's desk. Sale of the stadium's seats had to be cancelled after it was found they contained trace amounts of the toxic metal cadmium.\n\n, Arsenal Stadium was redeveloped and converted into flats in a project known as \"Highbury Square\", a scheme that had 711 properties built on the site. The North Bank and Clock End stands were demolished. The exteriors of the listed Art Deco East Stand and the matching West Stand were preserved and incorporated into the new developments, while the rest of the stands' structures were removed, and the pitch became a communal garden. In October 2005 the proposed flats went on sale; as of May 2006 all properties in the North, East and West Stands had been taken.\n\nArsenal's clock was moved from Highbury to the outer side of the new stadium, with a new larger version of the feature added inside the ground in August 2010. At the same time as the unveiling of the new clock, the south stands at the venue were also renamed \"Clock End\" inline with the same name previously used at Highbury.\n\nAs well as being home to Arsenal, it also hosted games as home stadium for England matches; 12 internationals were played at Highbury from 1920 to 1961, most of them being friendlies. These included both England's first full home international against opposition outside of Great Britain and Ireland (Belgium in 1923), and the \"Battle of Highbury\", England's 3–2 win over World Champions Italy in 1934, where a record seven Arsenal players started the match, the most players from a single club to play in an England fixture. Highbury was also used as a football venue for two matches in the 1948 London Olympics – a first-round match and a quarter-final. It was also provisionally named as one of London's two host stadiums for the 1966 FIFA World Cup (along with Wembley), but was eventually dropped with White City Stadium taking the role instead. By the time of Euro 96, the pitch had been ruled too small for international football and the stadium would have been ineligible.\n\nHighbury was the venue for twelve FA Cup semi-finals as a neutral ground, the first in 1929 and the last in 1997, although between 1984 and 1992 it was off the FA's list of approved venues, after Arsenal's refusal to install perimeter fencing following a pitch invasion by Everton fans during their semi-final against Southampton. It also hosted the London XI's home leg against Lausanne Sports in the 1955–58 Inter-Cities Fairs Cup semi-finals; London won 2–0 on the night and 3–2 on aggregate.\n\nArsenal did not always play their home matches at Highbury in the 93 years they were based there. During the Second World War the stadium was used as an ARP station and was bombed; Arsenal played their matches at White Hart Lane, home of North London rivals Tottenham Hotspur, until Highbury re-opened in 1946. More recently, Arsenal's home UEFA Champions League matches in the 1998–99 and 1999–00 seasons were played at Wembley Stadium, as Highbury's already limited capacity had to be reduced to accommodate advertising hoardings. Arsenal's record at Wembley (P6 W2 D1 L3) was relatively poor, and after two seasons the club switched back to playing at Highbury, not least because since Wembley closed for rebuilding in October 2000, it would not have been able to host their 2000–01 campaign.\n\nHighbury has also hosted several cricket games and also baseball matches involving American servicemen between 1916 and 1919. It was the venue for the 1966 World Heavyweight boxing title bout between Henry Cooper and Muhammad Ali, which Ali won. It has featured on the silver screen as well, having been the backdrop for at least two movies: \"The Arsenal Stadium Mystery\", and \"Fever Pitch\".\n\nHighbury also played host to an international rugby league match on 10 October 1921 as part of the Australian rugby league team's 1921–22 Kangaroo tour of Great Britain. The match saw England defeat Australia 5–4 in front of 12,000 fans.\n\nArsenal's biggest win at Highbury came on 9 January 1932, with an 11–1 victory over Darwen in the FA Cup. Their biggest defeats were 0–5 losses to Huddersfield Town in the First Division on 14 February 1925 and against Chelsea in the League Cup on 11 November 1998.\n\nArsenal's complete competitive record at Highbury is as follows:\n\nEngland's record at Highbury is as follows:\n\nFA Cup semi-finals held at Highbury are listed below. Arsenal never played a semi-final at their own stadium. Teams in bold went on to win the competition that year\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8961575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8961575", "title": "Australian Open extreme heat policy", "text": "Australian Open extreme heat policy\n\nThe Extreme Heat Policy is a rule pertaining to the Australian Open (tennis). It was introduced in 1998 after consultation with a number of tennis players.\n\nFollowing severe criticism of the handling of the 2014 Australian Open, organisers increased the temperature threshold from the 2003 level of and increased the wet-bulb globe temperature (WBGT) threshold from the 2003 level of to allow for more continuous play and fewer stoppages in the future.\n\nWBGT charts show that the new threshold may not be triggered even if the temperature reaches when there is no humidity.\n\nWhen the policy is implemented, matches will now be halted after an even number of games in the set, rather than at the conclusion of the set.\n\nThere will also be a retractable roof available on Margaret Court Arena for the first time.\n\nIn 1988, Rod Laver Arena opened making the Australian Open the first Grand Slam to feature a retractable roof. The initial heat policy allowed for the roof to be closed when the temperature rose above or at the referee's discretion when the temperature rose above , but only for daytime matches and only once all singles matches could be scheduled inside Rod Laver Arena. This effectively meant that the heat policy could only go in effect in the quarterfinals or later in the tournament. \n\nOfficials considered closing the roof for the final in 1993 due to a temperature of , but Jim Courier threatened to boycott the match unless the roof remained open.\n\nThe heat rule was first invoked during the quarterfinal round in 1997.\n\nIn 1998 a new policy was implemented calling for play on all courts to be stopped if the temperature reached . This was later changed in 2002 to .\n\nThe 2002 women's final was played in heat, which triggered a 10-minute break between the 2nd and 3rd sets but no halt in play.\n\nBeginning with the 2003 tournament the policy was changed to and a WBGT of .\n\nThe new policy was invoked on January 20, 2003 on a day when the temperature reached and the WBGT reached the mark. Play was halted for the minimum 2 hours.\n\nAfter the extreme heat policy was invoked in consecutive years in 2006 and 2007, the policy was again changed starting in 2008 to allow matches in progress to be halted at the conclusion of the set. Prior to that a match already underway had to be completed. The policy was further changed in 2008 to allow play to be stopped only at the discretion of the tournament referee, rather than relying solely on temperature and WBGT calculations.\n\nThe policy was invoked several times in 2009, the hottest tournament to date with an average temperature of .\n\nThe extreme heat policy came under criticism during the 2014 Australian Open after ballboys, attendants in the stands, and players were suffering various heat-related illnesses due to 4 consecutive days with highs between , but organizers claimed the humidity remained low enough on all but one day for the policy not to be enforced; tournament referee Wayne McKewen said that \"While conditions were hot and uncomfortable, the relatively low level of humidity ensured that conditions never deteriorated to a point where it was necessary to invoke the extreme heat policy\". Frank Dancevic, who began to hallucinate and collapse during his 6–7, 3–6, 4–6 loss to Benoît Paire, described the conditions as \"inhumane\" while severely criticising the policy, and Andy Murray voiced his concerns about people's safety, stating that \"it only takes one bad thing to happen\". Ivan Dodig, who also collapsed and was forced to retire, said afterwards that he was \"thinking he could maybe even die\" in the extreme conditions. Nine players retired during the second day, while Daniel Gimeno-Traver carried off a ball boy who fainted during his match and Peng Shuai was amongst many throughout the tournament that required medical attention. Jo-Wilfried Tsonga and Caroline Wozniacki noted that their shoes and water bottles were beginning to melt in the conditions, while Serena Williams and Victoria Azarenka said that the heat was affecting their play.\n\nRoger Federer, however, agreed with the referee's decision, saying that adequate training and preparation should be enough to cope with the weather. Gilles Simon, who was injured prior to the tournament, took a similar view and said that the heat improved his game.\n\nOn the second day of the tournament the temperature reached . On the third day it reached . On the fourth day it reached . On the fifth day it reached with 6% humidity. Play continued uninterrupted for the second, third, and fifth days and was stopped for 4 hours on the fourth day. For many players the stoppage was closer to 3 hours because they had to complete the set in progress even after the policy went into effect. On Rod Laver Arena, Maria Sharapova and Karin Knapp had to complete a 3rd set that lasted nearly 2 hours and 18 games. On the third day 970 fans had been treated for heat exhaustion. \n\nWhile the exact WBGT on these days has not been revealed by the organizers, it is clear that had the earlier 1998 policy been still in effect play would have been halted all 4 days once the temperature exceeded 40 degrees Celsius\n\nThe extreme heat resulted in a record number of 9 withdraws in the first round.\n\nOn January 24, 2015, the \"Herald Sun\" reported that Susan Carman sued the Melbourne & Olympic Parks Trust for failing to close the roof at Hisense Arena during Andy Murray's second round match in the 2013 Australian Open. The temperature that day reached . Carman says she fell down the stairs while seeking shade.\n"}
{"id": "35671803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35671803", "title": "Austrian Sailing Federation", "text": "Austrian Sailing Federation\n\nThe Austrian Sailing Federation is the national governing body for the sport of sailing in Austria, recognised by World Sailing.\n\nSee \n\nSee \n\nSee \n\n"}
{"id": "31440442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31440442", "title": "Caraway Speedway", "text": "Caraway Speedway\n\nCaraway Speedway is a short track located near Asheboro, North Carolina, U.S. Caraway Speedway was built in 1966 as a dirt track. The track was paved in 1972 and joined the NASCAR Weekly Series family as a .455 mile asphalt short track. Caraway Speedway was owned and operated by Russell and Valastra Hackett from 1977 to 2010. Russell turned over operations to Darren and Renee Hackett for the 2011 season. Caraway Speedway hosts a variety of weekly series, several Whelen Southern Modified Series events, as well as other touring series.\n\nSaturday night events at 7:00 pm to allow fans to spend some time with their favorite drivers after the race.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2559171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2559171", "title": "Chess Oscar", "text": "Chess Oscar\n\nChess Oscar was an international award given annually to the best chess player. The winner was selected by votes that are cast by chess journalists from across the world.\nThe traditional voting procedure was to request hundreds of chess journalists from many countries to submit a list of the ten best players of the year. The voters were journalists who knew the game and followed it closely, and so the honor was highly prized. The award itself took the form of a bronze statuette representing a man in a boat. The prize was created and awarded in 1967 by Spanish journalist Jorge Puig, and the International Association of Chess Press (AIP). The awards were given from 1967 until 1988. Then, after a pause, they resumed in 1995, and were then organized by the Russian chess magazine \"64\".\n\n\"64\" ceased publication in 2014, and the awards have not been made since.\n\nThe statuette's final form, a man in a boat, was carved by the sculptor Alexander Smirnov. It represented a figure known as \"The Fascinated Wanderer\", which refers to a short story written in 1873 by 19th-century Russian author Nikolai Leskov. In this story, the title character, Ivan Flyagin, is a horse trainer and a brute of a man. From his birth his mother has promised that Ivan's life would be devoted to the church. Ivan spends many years avoiding this fate, but eventually gives in and becomes a monk, not for spiritual reasons, but due to a poverty of opportunity.\n\nThe Chess Oscar statuette originally took the form of \"The Lady of the Umbrella\", a figure based on a statue in Parc de la Ciutadella in Barcelona, Spain.\n"}
{"id": "14465568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14465568", "title": "Chess World Cup 2007", "text": "Chess World Cup 2007\n\nThe Chess World Cup 2007 served as a qualification tournament for the World Chess Championship 2010. It was held as a 128-player single-elimination tournament, between 24 November and 16 December 2007, in Khanty-Mansiysk, Russia.\n\nIn an event attended by most leading players of the world, American Gata Kamsky emerged as the winner. He was unbeaten in the tournament, going into tie-break only once and defeating Spaniard Alexei Shirov, 2½–1½, in the four-game final. Two 17-year-old players, Sergey Karjakin and Magnus Carlsen, reached the semifinals.\n\nBy winning, Kamsky qualified for the Challenger Match, the final stage in determining the challenger for the World Chess Championship 2010; his participation in that match allowed him direct entry into the Candidates Matches for the World Chess Championship 2012.\n\nThe final four also received direct entry into the FIDE Grand Prix 2008–10, a qualifying stage for the World Chess Championship 2012.\n\nThe winner of the Chess World Cup 2005, Levon Aronian, was defeated by Dmitry Jakovenko in the fourth round.\n\nThe 2007 World Cup was part of the cycle for the World Chess Championship 2010. Gata Kamsky, as the winner of this tournament, played an eight-game match against Veselin Topalov in 2008, for the right to be the challenger for the World Chess Championship 2010. Ultimately Topalov won the match and will face World Champion Viswanathan Anand, who successfully defended his title against former champion Vladimir Kramnik at the World Chess Championship 2008.\n\nVladimir Kramnik and Veselin Topalov were ineligible to participate, due to special privileges they already had in the 2008–2010 World Championship cycle.\n\nAll other leading players, including world champion Viswanathan Anand, were eligible to participate. However Anand, who was already seeded into the 2008–2010 cycle, elected not to play.\n\nThree other players who had recently competed in the World Chess Championship 2007 in Mexico - Péter Lékó, Aleksandr Morozevich and Boris Gelfand - elected not to play. Lékó and Morozevich refused to take part as a form of protest against the special privileges given for the inclusion of Kramnik and Topalov in the World Chess Championship Cycle.\n\nThe only other player from the Top 30 who did not participate was Judit Polgár.\n\nThe final list of 128 qualifiers for the World Cup was as follows:\n\nThe individual Zones (for Zonals) are described in the FIDE handbook.\n\nAll players are Grandmasters unless indicated otherwise.\n\n\nThe tournament is in the style of the FIDE World Chess Championships 1998–2004: each round consists of a two-game match (except for the final round, which will be a four-game match), followed by tie breaks at faster time controls if required.\n\nThe time control for regular games is 90 minutes for the first 40 moves and 30 minutes for the rest of the game, with 30 seconds added after each move. Tie breaks consist of two rapid chess games (25 minutes each + 10 seconds per move); followed by two blitz games if required (5 minutes + 10 seconds per move); followed by a single Armageddon chess game if required (white has 6 minutes and must win, black has 5 minutes and only needs to draw).\n\nThe prize money ranged from US$6,000 for players eliminated in the first round to $80,000 for the losing finalist and $120,000 for the winner.\n\nMost of the top seeds progressed. From the top 32, the only higher seeded players eliminated were Pavel Eljanov (19th seed), Konstantin Landa (25) and Pendyala Harikrishna (32).\n\nPlayers in the top 32 eliminated in regular games were Teimour Radjabov (seeded 3), Loek van Wely (24). Top 32 players eliminated in tie breaks were Rustam Kasimdzhanov (22), Andrei Volokitin (26) and Vadim Zvjaginsev (30). This left 24 of the top 32 seeds in the final 32.\n\nHigh seeds needing tie breaks to progress included Vassily Ivanchuk (1), Magnus Carlsen (10), Ruslan Ponomariov (14) and Wang Yue (15).\n\nAfter the two regular games, 10 of the 16 matches had decisive results. Players going through on the regular games are: Alexei Shirov (seeded 5), Michael Adams (7), Evgeny Alekseev (8), Magnus Carlsen (10), Gata Kamsky (11), Vladimir Akopian (12), Dmitry Jakovenko (13), Ruslan Ponomariov (14), Wang Yue (15) and Ivan Cheparinov (31). Cheparinov eliminated the number 2 seed Shakhriyar Mamedyarov.\n\nThe other six matches were decided in the tie breaks. Winners were Liviu-Dieter Nisipeanu (33) (eliminating top seed Vassily Ivanchuk), Krishnan Sasikiran (35), Evgeny Bareev (41), Levon Aronian (4), Peter Svidler (6), Sergey Karjakin (17).\n\nIn the regular time control games, Shirov, Ponomariov, Carlsen, Karjakin and Cheparinov won their respective matches against Akopian, Sasikiran, Adams, Nisipeanu and Wang Yue. The other three matches (Jakovenko-Aronian, Svidler-Kamsky and Bareev-Alekseev) proceed to tie breaks, with wins to Jakovenko, Kamsky and Alekseev.\n\nChessbase reports: Round five Game one;\nRound five Game two;\nRound five tie breaks;\nRound six Game one.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18669956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18669956", "title": "Croatian Canoe Federation", "text": "Croatian Canoe Federation\n\nThe Croatian Canoe Federation () is the governing body of rowing in Croatia. It organizes the Croatian representation at international competitions and the Croatian National Championships.\n\nThe Federation was formed on August 6, 1939 in Zagreb. It became a member of the International Canoe Federation in 1992 and of the European Canoe Association in 1993.\n"}
{"id": "18720704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18720704", "title": "Cuban Olympic Committee", "text": "Cuban Olympic Committee\n\nThe Cuban Olympic Committee () is the organization that represents Cuban athletes in the International Olympic Committee (IOC), the Pan American Games and the Central American and Caribbean Games. It was created in Havana in 1926; however, it was not formally recognized by the IOC until 1954. The organization is currently directed by José Fernández Álvarez.\n\nThe Cuban Olympic Committee is headquartered in Havana, Cuba.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51634662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51634662", "title": "Deportes Vallenar", "text": "Deportes Vallenar\n\nClub de Deportes Vallenar is a Chilean Football club, their home town is Vallenar, Chile. They currently play in the third level of Chilean football, the Segunda División.\n\nThe club was founded in the \"Población Baquedano\" of Vallenar. It is the only one that represents and has represented the city of Vallenar in the Chilean soccer.\n\nOn 15 May 2010 made his debut in the Copa Chile, playing a match against Deportes La Serena, receiving a win by 0-12 in the first leg, while in the return match played in the Estadio La Portada, lost by 7-0, leaving a global marker of 19-0 in favor of the team of the fourth region.\n\nThe club it was accepted in 2013 to play the Tercera División B under the name of \"Estrella del Huasco\", During the \"Torneo de Apertura 2013\", the club ends first of its group (Grupo \"Nuevos\"), obtaining 3 bonus points for the next tournament. In the \"Torneo de Clausura 2013\", the club ends in the third position in the \"Grupo Norte\". With this result, classifies the final hex to then obtain the runners-up in the Tercera División B, ascending to the Tercera División A.\n\nIn 2014, after ascend to the Tercera División A de Chile changed its name to Club de Deportes Vallenar. In the tournament, ends in the worst position of its brief history: 5°.\nOn 12 December of the year 2015, Deportes Vallenar defeat 2-0 to Deportivo Estación Central, ensuring at least the second place in the Tercera División A to 2015 in the penultimate date. With this is assured one of the 2 posts direct ascent to the Segunda División de Chile. At the end of the season, Deportes Vallenar was in the second position. The club will play for the first time in its history, in the professionalism from the year 2016.\n\nIn its short history the club has participated for 1 year in Tercera División B, 2 years in Tercera División A, and 1 year in the Segunda División.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8763022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8763022", "title": "Dice stacking", "text": "Dice stacking\n\nDice stacking is a performance art, akin to juggling or sleight-of-hand, in which the performer scoops dice off a flat surface with a dice cup and then sets the cup down while moving it in a pattern that stacks the dice into a vertical column via centripetal force and inertia. Various dice arrangements, colors of dice, scooping patterns and props allow for many degrees of complexity and difficulty. Dice stacking is usually performed with canceled casino dice, as their square edges and heavy weight give them an advantage when being stacked.\n\nDice stacking comes from lower Germany.\n\nIn Germany the first national dice stacking championship tournament took place in May 2008. Tournament rules included the use of a special designed DiceBoard for players which shows the different prescribed moves. There are two disciplines: the \"full-area\" discipline and the \"speed-area\" discipline.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48006836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48006836", "title": "Dori Lal Agarawal Sports Stadium", "text": "Dori Lal Agarawal Sports Stadium\n\nDori Lal Agarawal Sports Stadium or Regional Sports Stadium is a multi-purpose stadium in Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh. The ground is mainly used for organizing matches of football, cricket, and other sports. The stadium was established in 1960 and has hosted international matches between India women's cricket team and Sri Lanka women's cricket team.\n\nIn 2015, the Government of Uttar Pradesh decided to upgrade the stadium's core via construction of a dormitory with 400 beds for both male and female players, as well as staircases.\n\nIn August 2015, the stadium hosted the Indian Gramin Cricket League, a local Twenty20 tournament for rural areas.\n\n"}
{"id": "6839082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6839082", "title": "Fans Field (Bloomington)", "text": "Fans Field (Bloomington)\n\nFans Field was a minor league baseball park in Bloomington, Illinois, and was home to the Bloomington franchise of the Illinois–Indiana–Iowa League, popularly known as the Three-I League or jokingly as the Three-Eye League, from the early 1900s through 1939. The team had various names, but was primarily known as the Bloomington Bloomers, as well as the Bloomington Blues, Bloomington Bengals, Bloomington Cubs and Bloomington Cardinals. It was a short block east of South Main Street, on the south side of Lafayette, perhaps \"not\" coincidentally near the Brewery that sat just west of South Main and served the city's significant German population well. One of that Brewery's buildings was later used for a clubhouse at the Highland Park golf course. As for the ballpark, after the end of minor league ball in the city, the stands were converted for use as a fairgrounds, and later a ballroom was built on the site.\n\nMinor league teams that played at Fans field were independent for the most part, but fans field did see some minor league teams that were affiliated with Major League Baseball teams. The 1935 Bloomington Cardinals were affiliated with the St. Louis Cardinals, the 1938 Bloomington Bloomers were affiliated with the Cleveland Indians and the 1939 Bloomers were affiliated with the Chicago Cubs.\nFans field hosted four league championship teams. League champion teams included the 1903, 1919, and 1920 Bloomers and the 1935 Bloomington Cardinals.\n\nToday, the site is home to the RT Dunn Fields at 109 E. Lafayette. The site remains adjacent to the National Guard Armory, has five acres with two lighted ball fields and is also utilized for football and soccer.\n\n"}
{"id": "278148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=278148", "title": "Formula SAE", "text": "Formula SAE\n\nFormula SAE is a student design competition organized by SAE International (previously known as the Society of Automotive Engineers, SAE). The competition was started in 1980 by the SAE student branch at the University of Texas (Austin) after a prior asphalt racing competition proved to be unsustainable (see History).\n\nThe concept behind Formula SAE is that a fictional manufacturing company has contracted a student design team to develop a small Formula-style race car. The prototype race car is to be evaluated for its potential as a production item. The target marketing group for the race car is the non-professional weekend autocross racer. Each student team designs, builds and tests a prototype based on a series of rules, whose purpose is both ensuring on-track safety (the cars are driven by the students themselves) and promoting clever problem solving.\n\nThe prototype race car is judged in a number of different events. The points schedule for most Formula SAE events is:\n\nIn addition to these events, various sponsors of the competition provide awards for superior design accomplishments. For example, best use of E-85 ethanol fuel, innovative use of electronics, recyclability, crash worthiness, analytical approach to design, and overall dynamic performance are some of the awards available. At the beginning of the competition, the vehicle is checked for rule compliance during the Technical Inspection. Its braking ability, rollover stability and noise levels are checked before the vehicle is allowed to compete in the dynamic events (Skidpad, Autocross, Acceleration, and Endurance).\n\nFormula SAE encompasses all aspects of a business including research, design, manufacturing, testing, developing, marketing, management, and fund raising.\n\nBig companies, such as General Motors, Ford, and Chrysler, can have staff interact with more than 1000 student engineers. Working in teams of anywhere between two and 30, these students have proven themselves to be capable of producing a functioning prototype vehicle.\n\nThe volunteers for the design judging include some of the racing industry's most prominent engineers and consultants including the late Carroll Smith, Bill Mitchell, Doug Milliken, Claude Rouelle, Jack Auld, John LePlante, Ron Tauranac, and Bryan Kubala.\n\nToday, the competition has expanded and includes a number of spinoff events. Formula Student is a similar SAE-sanctioned event in the UK, as well as Formula SAE Australasia (Formula SAE-A) taking place in Australia. A Formula SAE West event takes place in California but will be replaced by SAE Lincoln in Nebraska for 2012. The Verein Deutscher Ingenieure (VDI) holds the Formula Student Germany competition at Hockenheimring.\n\nIn 2007, an offshoot called Formula Hybrid was inaugurated. It is similar to Formula SAE, except all cars must have gasoline-electric hybrid power plants. The competition takes place at the New Hampshire International Speedway. \n\nFormula SAE has relatively few performance restrictions. The team must be made up entirely of active college students (including drivers) which places obvious restrictions on available work hours, skill sets, experience, and presents unique challenges that professional race teams do not face with a paid, skilled staff. This restriction means that the rest of the regulations can be much less restrictive than most professional series.\n\nStudents are allowed to receive advice and criticism from professional engineers or faculty, but all of the car design must be done by the students themselves. Students are also solely responsible for fundraising, though most successful teams are based on curricular programs and have university-sponsored budgets. Additionally, the points system is organized so that multiple strategies can lead to success. This leads to a great variety among cars, which is a rarity in the world of motorsports.\n\nThe engine must be a four-stroke, Otto-cycle piston engine with a displacement no greater than 710cc. An air restrictor of circular cross-section must be fitted downstream of the throttle and upstream of any compressor, no greater than 20mm for gasoline engines or 19mm for ethanol-fueled engines. The restrictor keeps power levels below 100 hp in the vast majority of FSAE cars. Most commonly, production four-cylinder 600cc sport bike engines are used due to their availability and displacement. However there are many teams that use smaller V-twin and single-cylinder engines, mainly due to their weight-saving and packaging benefits. Though it is permitted, very rarely do teams build an engine from scratch, such as Western Washington University's 554cc V8 entry in 2001, University of Melbourne's \"WATTARD\" engine in 2003-2004 and University of Auckland's V twin.\n\nThe suspension is unrestricted save for safety regulations. Most teams opt for four-wheel independent suspension, almost universally double-wishbone. Active suspension is legal.\n\nThere are few regulations or requirements on aerodynamics. Most teams do not build aerodynamic packages as the speeds involved in FSAE competition rarely exceed , and design judging tends to frown upon aerodynamic parts that do not have definite test data, usually in the form of wind tunnel testing or at least computational fluid dynamics analysis. Therefore, most cars that do utilize aerodynamic downforce tend to develop their entire car around the aerodynamic package, including massive wings and undertrays. The benefit of a well-developed aerodynamic package is evident; depending on how fast the course is, the slowest aero-package cars sometimes run several seconds per lap faster than any of the non-aero cars.\n\nThere is no weight restriction. The weight of the average competitive Formula SAE car is usually less than in race trim. However, the lack of weight regulation combined with the somewhat fixed power ceiling encourages teams to adopt innovative weight-saving strategies, such as the use of composite materials, elaborate and expensive machining projects, and rapid prototyping. In 2009 the fuel economy portion of the endurance event was assigned 100 of the 400 endurance points, up from 50. This rules change has marked a trend in engine downsizing in an attempt to save weight and increase fuel economy. Several top-running teams have switched from high-powered four-cylinder cars to smaller, one- or two-cylinder engines which, though they usually make much less power, allow weight savings of or more, and also provide much better fuel economy. If a lightweight single-cylinder car can keep a reasonable pace in the endurance race, it can often make up the points lost in overall time to the heavier, high-powered cars by an exceptional fuel economy score. \n\nThe majority of the regulations pertain to safety. Cars must have two steel roll hoops of designated thickness and alloy, regardless of the composition of the rest of the chassis. There must be an impact attenuator in the nose, and impact testing data on this attenuator must be submitted prior to competing. Cars must also have two hydraulic brake circuits, full five-point racing harnesses, and must meet geometric templates for driver location in the cockpit for all drivers competing. Tilt-tests ensure that no fluids will spill from the car under heavy cornering, and there must be no line-of-sight between the driver and fuel, coolant, or oil lines.\n\nIn 1979 the only SAE Mini-Indy was held at the University of Houston. Conceived by Dr. Kurt M. Marshek, the competition was inspired by a how-to article that appeared in Popular Mechanics magazine, for a small, \"Indy-style\" vehicle made out of wood, and powered by a five-horsepower Briggs and Stratton engine. Using the Mini Baja competitions as a guide, engineering students had to design and build small, \"Indy-style\" vehicles using the same stock engine used in the \"Popular Mechanics\" article. Thirteen schools entered and eleven competed. The University of Texas at El Paso won the overall competition.\n\nAlthough Dr. William Shapton (who had recently left the University of Cincinnati to join Michigan Technological University) broached the idea of hosting a similar competition in 1980, no one stepped up to organize another Mini-Indy.\n\nIn 1980 when the members of the new SAE student branch at the University of Texas (Austin) learned that the Mini-Indy had died, they generated the concept for a new intercollegiate student engineering design competition that would allow students to apply what they were learning in the classroom to a complex, real-world engineering design problem: design and development of a race car. UT SAE student branch members Robert Edwards and John Tellkamp led a discussion among UT SAE members and envisioned a competition that would involve designing and constructing a race car along the lines of the SCCA Formula 440 entry-level racing series that was popular at the time. Prof. Matthews came up with the “Formula SAE” name following the format of Formula A and Formula Vee but emphasizing that this new race car was an engineering competition rather than a driver’s competition. Schools would meet after the end of the academic year to compete and determine who had built the best car. Edwards, Tellkamp, and fellow UT SAE students Joe Green, Dick Morton, Mike Best, and Carl Morris drafted a set of safety and competition rules and presented them to the SAE student branch membership and to UT SAE Faculty Advisor Prof. Ron Matthews. Prof. Matthews then contacted Bob Sechler of the SAE Educational Relations Department at SAE headquarters and asked for his permission both to establish the new intercollegiate student engineering design competition and to host the first Formula SAE competition during the summer of 1981, and he agreed. The newly formed UT SAE branch, consisting mostly of automotive and motorcycle enthusiasts pursuing engineering degrees, including several who had left careers in fields for which the job market had virtually disappeared due to the depressed economy in the early 1980s – including some experienced auto mechanics, embraced and adopted the concept with little idea of what they were getting themselves into. SAE student branch officers Mike Best, Carl Morris, and Sylvia Obregon, along with Dr. Matthews began planning and organizing the event to be held the following year. \n\nHere, it is important to note that Formula SAE was NOT a simple renaming of the Mini-Indy competition but was instead an entirely new intercollegiate student engineering design competition. Unlike all previous SAE-sanctioned student racing/design competitions including Mini-Indy, the Formula SAE rules left the selection of the engine to the design team, as long as a 4 stroke engine with a one-inch diameter intake restrictor was used. (The current Formula SAE rules allow the teams to use 4-stroke engines up to 710 cc, with a smaller restrictor.) Also, unlike all previous SAE-sanctioned student racing/design competitions including Mini-Indy, engine modifications were both allowed and encouraged. \nThe first Formula SAE competition was held in the parking lot of the UT baseball field (Disch-Falk field) on the University of Texas campus on Memorial Day weekend, 1981. Judges included legendary race car engineer/owner/driver and Indy 500 champion Jim Hall. While a sudden Texas rain storm sent everyone scrambling for cover just before the endurance event that day, the weather failed to dampen the spirits of the students, judges, or spectators and Formula SAE was born. \nThe University of Texas continued to host the event from 1982 to 1984 as the popularity and number of participants grew. In these subsequent years, UT moved the Formula SAE competition to other parking areas that included elevation changes and driveway aprons that forced the use of functioning suspensions. The event became international in 1982 with the entry of Universidad La Salle team from Mexico City. The significant rules changes for 1982 were: 1) a displacement limit of 600 cc (300 cc for Wankels), but the 1 inch diameter restrictor rule was retained, 2) a requirement for 4-wheel independent suspension (Mini-Indy did not have any suspension rules), and 3) the addition of a temporary “B&S” class of vehicles that were originally designed for Mini-Baja, had to retain the 8 hp Briggs & Stratton engine, and did not need to comply with the 4-wheel independent suspension rule. Formula SAE continued to be an international competition when the team from Universidad La Salle returned. With the only engine restrictions being a displacement limit of 600 cc and a 1 inch maximum diameter for the intake, creativity flourished. Also in 1983, the temporary B&S class was eliminated, the University of Texas at Austin entered the first composite Formula SAE vehicle and Marquette University entered the first turbocharged engine. The rules allowed a Formula SAE car to compete for two years in recognition of the effort required to build and test a quality car. This also allowed students the experience of re-engineering and improving on design elements that did not work. The rules for 1984 specifically allowed turbochargers, superchargers, and use of nitrous oxide but the engine had to breathe through a 25.4 mm exit bore of the carburetor casting (1984 was well before electronic fuel injection). Engine intake restrictors were later tightened as cars became faster year over year as knowledge was passed on within and between teams. Also, a 65-100 inch wheelbase rule was promulgated, as was a rule requiring all vehicles to have a “body that resembles a formula car”. The Formula SAE field had grown to eleven cars in 1984, so the University of Texas at Austin decided that the competition had matured sufficiently that it was safe to pass it on to other hosts.\n\nThe University of Texas at Austin hosted the competition through 1984. In 1985, the competition was hosted by The University of Texas at Arlington. There, Dr. Robert Woods, with guidance from the SAE student activities committee, changed the concept of the competition from one where students built a pure racing car, to one that mirrored the SAE Mini-Baja competitions, where they were to design and build a vehicle for limited series production.\n\nGeneral Motors hosted the competition in 1991, Ford Motor Co. in 1992, and Chrysler Corp. in 1993. After the 1992 competition, the three formed a consortium to run Formula SAE.\n\nAt the end of the 2008 competition, the consortium ceased to exist. The event is now funded by SAE through company sponsorships and donations along with the teams' enrollment fees.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2696964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2696964", "title": "Handspring (gymnastics)", "text": "Handspring (gymnastics)\n\nA handspring is an acrobatic move in which a person executes a complete revolution of the body by lunging headfirst from an upright position into an inverted vertical position and then pushing off (i.e., \"springing\") from the floor with the hands so as to leap back to an upright position. The direction of body rotation in a handspring may be either forward or backward, and either kind may be performed from a stationary standing position or while in motion. Body movement may be terminated upon completion of a handspring, or the performer's momentum may be leveraged so as to immediately perform another handspring or other rotational move.\n\nHandsprings are performed in various physical activities, including acro dance, cheerleading and gymnastics. In competitive activities, handsprings may be judged on a number of criteria.\n\nA handspring is an acrobatic move in which a person executes a complete revolution of the body by lunging headfirst from an upright position into an inverted vertical position and then pushing off (i.e., \"springing\") from the floor with the hands so as to leap back to an upright position. Handsprings are performed in various physical activities, including acro dance, cheerleading and gymnastics.\n\nThe direction of body rotation in a handspring may be either forward or backward, resulting in a front handspring or back handspring, respectively. In a back handspring the performer does not see where the hands will land until after the move has begun.\n\nA \"standing\" handspring is one that begins from a stationary standing position. For example, a back handspring that begins with the performer in a stationary standing position is a \"standing back handspring\".\n\nBody movement may be terminated upon completion of a handspring, or the performer's momentum may be leveraged so as to immediately perform another handspring or other rotational move (e.g., a flip, such as a tuck or layout). Similarly, another rotational move (e.g., a roundoff) may precede a handspring in order to develop sufficient momentum for the handspring.\n\nIn artistic gymnastics, handsprings are commonly performed in the floor exercise, vault, and balance beam events.\n\nA standing back handspring begins with a three phase sequence known as \"up, sit, jump\". In the \"up\" phase, the gymnast stands up straight on flat feet, with arms in front at an angle slightly above horizontal. In the \"sit\" phase, the gymnast swings the arms down by the sides of the torso, bends knees, and sits back as if sitting in a chair; while in this position, the gymnast is unbalanced. Together, the sit and jump phases impart angular momentum to the body, causing it to rotate. In the \"jump\" phase, the gymnast swings both arms up by the ears and jumps into the air while transitioning to an arch position, with the head in a neutral position, arms and legs straight, and feet together; this body shape is maintained until the hands contact the floor. With hands on the floor, the body's angular momentum is used to transform the gymnast's body shape from an arch, through a linear shape, to a \"hollow\" shape. The hands are then pushed against the floor, causing the body to lift off from the floor while the body continues its feet-first rotation. Finally, the feet land on the floor, behind the body's center of gravity, and the remaining angular momentum is depleted as it carries the gymnast to a stationary standing position.\n\nGymnastics judges will deduct points if certain criteria are not satisfied during a handspring. For example, in a standing back handspring the judges will evaluate aspects of form and motion such as:\n\nIn a front handspring, judges will evaluate aspects of form and motion such as:\n\nA front handspring can be started from a stationary standing position, but it is more common for gymnasts to hurdle into front handsprings at a run. It is also possible to precede a front handspring with a \"step out\", which is similar to a handspring but lands one foot at a time. It can be performed on beam the same way it is performed on floor. It is the most basic type of vault performed at competitions.\n\nA variation of the back handspring often performed on the balance beam is called the \"back handspring step-out\". In this variation, the gymnast splits the legs upon takeoff, attains a full split when inverted, and lands one foot at a time. Stepping out makes it easier for the gymnast to land safely and perform other tricks following the handspring. A back handspring can also be performed on the vault as part of a vault called a Yurchenko.\n\nIn another variation of a front handspring, called a flyspring, the gymnast's feet are held together from beginning to end. Therefore, in order to do a flyspring, the gymnast must jump into it.\n\nFlips such as a salto or layout may be performed after a handspring; these may twist as well as flip. Similarly, a handspring may be preceded by another rotational move, such as a cartwheel landing with the feet together.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52390403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52390403", "title": "Hertfordshire county cricket teams", "text": "Hertfordshire county cricket teams\n\nCricket must have reached Hertfordshire by the end of the 17th century. The earliest reference to cricket in the county is dated 1732 and is also the earliest reference to Essex as a county team. On Thursday, 6 July 1732, a team called Essex & Hertfordshire played London Cricket Club in a first-class match at Epping Forest \"for £50 a side\". The result is unknown.\n\nHertfordshire has not usually been considered a first-class county but its teams did appear frequently throughout the eighteenth century and played in some matches classified as first-class. There was a county organisation of sorts in 1838 and the present Hertfordshire County Cricket Club was founded on 8 March 1876. It joined the Minor Counties Championship for the very first season, 1895, and is the only one of the seven competing sides from that season to have maintained membership continuously ever since.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3029060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3029060", "title": "Hrazdan Stadium", "text": "Hrazdan Stadium\n\nHrazdan Stadium () is a multi-use, all-seater stadium in Yerevan, Armenia, opened in 1970. Being the largest sports venue in Armenia, Hrazdan is mostly used for football matches. It is the home stadium of the Armenian national team. The stadium is able to host 54,208 spectators after the most recent reconstruction in 2008, which converted the stadium into an all-seater one. Before the reconstruction, Hrazdan was able to hold up to 70,000 spectators. It was among the top four stadiums of the Soviet Union by its capacity. The stadium hosted the Armenian Cup finals during many occasions as well as the opening ceremony of the Pan-Armenian Games in 2003. The USSR national team played two games against Finland and Greece in Hrazdan in 1978.\n\nThe earliest idea of building a football stadium in the valley of Hrazdan river was proposed by the First Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the Soviet Union Anastas Mikoyan in his visit to Yerevan in the 1950s. During his stay at the presidential mansion on a hill overlooking the Hrazdan river, he observed a \"natural amphitheater\" in Hrazdan gorge and proposed the construction of a football venue with a capacity of 30,000 seats. However, the idea never became serious during that period.\n\nIn 1967, the authorities of Soviet Armenia launched a serious program to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the sovietization of Armenia in 1970. A group of architects, led by former weightlifter Koryun Hakopyan and former fencer Gurgen Musheghyan proposed the construction plan of a football stadium in Hrazdan gorge, to host around 75,000 spectators.\n\nA total amount of 5 million rubles was allocated for the project. The construction works were launched during the second half of 1969 and with the financial support of Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, completed in a remarkable period of 18 months.\n\nThe construction process was highly supervised by the Communist leader Karen Demirchyan. Finally, the venue became ready in November 1970. The official opening of the stadium took place on November 29, 1970 with the presence of Leonid Brezhnev, celebrating the 50th anniversary of the Armenian SSR. However, the planned ceremony for the opening day was postponed due to heavy snow.\n\nHrazdan Stadium hosted its first official football match on May 19, 1971 when Ararat Yerevan defeated Kairat Almaty 3-0 in front of 78,000 spectators, with Alexandr Kovalenko (58th min), Oganes Zanazanyan (74th min. pen.) and Nikolai Kazaryan (77th min.) scoring for the hosts. \n\nThe stadium hosted some glorious moments of the Armenian football during Soviet era. The Armenians celebrated Ararat Yerevan's double of the Soviet football in 1973, which allowed them to play in the European Cup. Reaching the quarterfinals, they lost the first leg to the defending and future champions Bayern Munich with a result of 2-0 while they won the 2nd leg 1-0 in Hrazdan stadium in front of more than 70,000 spectators.\n\nIn 1985, Hrazdan was one of the venues of the FIFA World Youth Championsh took place in the Soviet Union. It hosted the matches of the 1st group as well as a match during the quarter finals.\n\nAftr the independence of Armenia, the arena hosted the matches of the national team until 1999 when the smaller Republican Stadium in downtown Yerevan became its home ground. The largest number of spectators for the National team was recorded on October 9, 1996, in a 1998 World Cup qualification match against Germany. Attended by 42,000 fans, the match ended in favour of the Germans with a result of 5-1.\n\nThe history of the stadium is closely related with the history of Armenian football. The Stadium which was built in a record period of 18 months, is the first in the world that was built in a mountainous landscape.\nThe architects of the stadium were Koryun Hakobyan and Gurgen Musheghyan from Armenia. The construction process was supervised by engineer Edward Tossunian. The architectural group of the stadium was granted the award of the best construction of the year in 1971 and honoured by the Soviet Government.\n\nIn 2003 the stadium was privatized and sold to the Hrazdan Holding CJSC, who began to set up a renovation process in 2005. By the end of 2008 the stadium became all-seater.\n\nShortly after its renovation the Stadium hosted Armenia's match against Turkey on 6 September 2008, which was the first match Armenia had played at ground since a Euro 2000 qualifying match against France on 8 September 1999. The crucial match was attended by presidents Serzh Sargsyan and Abdullah Gul, with the presence of more than 30,000 spectators.\n\nAfter the 2008 renovation, Hrazdan held UEFA three-star status until that rating was superseded by a new system of classification.\n\nAccording to the president of Armenian Football Federation Ruben Hayrapetyan, a total of 6 million Euros will be spent for the modernization of the infrastructure, the pitch, the running track and the installation of a full-tribune cover for the stadium. After the upcoming renovation, the stadium will have an opportunity to bid as a host-venue for UEFA club competitions final matches. The renovation works began in March. An estimated US$ 10 million was invested.\n\nIn 1989, a year after the 1988 Armenian earthquake that killed 25,000 people and left more than 500,000 homeless, along with the break out of the Karabakh movement and the rise of nationalism, hundreds of thousands of Armenians were looking for some kind of temporary diversion from the devastation and feeling the importance of national activities. More than 110,000 fans packed the Hrazdan stadium to hear revolutionary and patriotic songs performed by the Armenian famous singer Harout Pamboukjian. Then-Minister of Culture Yuri Melik-Ohanjanian remarked this was the highest-attended performance in the history of Armenia.\n\nTop 10 matches for Ararat Yerevan with the highest attendance during the Soviet era:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55811352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55811352", "title": "Indiana Bicentennial Torch Relay", "text": "Indiana Bicentennial Torch Relay\n\nIndiana Bicentennial Torch Relay was an Olympic-style torch relay to mark the 200th anniversary of the state of Indiana. The relay spanned 3,200 miles over all 92 counties in the state. It started on September 9, 2016 in Corydon, IN, the state’s first capital, and ended October 15, 2016 at the Statehouse Grounds in Indianapolis. The relay path included 17 state parks, 260 cities, 9 rivers and lakes, and 22 college campuses.\n\nThe torch for the relay has been designed and built by a group of faculty, staff and students at Purdue University. The torch design is inspired by the flag of Indiana and contains two circles of stars. The larger circle is around the burner and similar to that in the flag contains 13 stars for Thirteen colonies. The smaller circle with 5 stars around the handle is for states that joined by 1812 before Indiana became the 19th state in 1816.\n\nOver 2,000 torchbearers were selected to represent their counties in the torch relay. \n\n"}
{"id": "50806412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50806412", "title": "Kuwait at the 1984 Summer Paralympics", "text": "Kuwait at the 1984 Summer Paralympics\n\nKuwait competed at the 1984 Summer Paralympics in Stoke Mandeville, Great Britain and New York City, United States. 22 competitors from Kuwait won 8 medals including 1 gold, 3 silver and 4 bronze and finished 31st in the medal table.\n\n"}
{"id": "10295140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10295140", "title": "Lebanon Davis Cup team", "text": "Lebanon Davis Cup team\n\nThe Lebanon Davis Cup team represents Lebanon in Davis Cup tennis competition and are governed by the Fédération Libanaise de Tennis.\n\nLebanon currently compete in the Asia/Oceania Zone of Group II. They reached Group I on four occasions, but have failed to win a match at that level.\n\nLebanon competed in its first Davis Cup in 1957.\n\n\n\nTennis Academy in Lebanon\nAli Hamadeh\n"}
{"id": "35338567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35338567", "title": "Ligue de Football de la Wilaya", "text": "Ligue de Football de la Wilaya\n\nLigue de Football de la Wilaya is the seventh-highest division in the Algerian football league system. The division has ? groups based on the Wilaya of the clubs in the country, with each Wilaya having two groups; Honneur and Pré-Honneur, each group contains ? teams from their respective Wilaya's. The league is governed by the Algerian Football Federation and the presidents of each Wilaya for each group(s). The Wilaya leagues are as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1881828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1881828", "title": "Malew A.F.C.", "text": "Malew A.F.C.\n\nMalew A.F.C. are a football club from Ballasalla, Malew in the Isle of Man. They compete in the Isle of Man Football League. They wear a red and black kit and play their home games at Clagh Vane in Ballasalla.\n\nFormed in 1922, R H Kermode, Arthur Craine, T Karran, A.E. Craine and A. Cormode were instrumental in getting the club started. The club was admitted to the Second League and continued to contest the Championship up to the Second World War. \nIn 1928, only six years into their history, the club won the Southern Section of the 2nd League before defeating Michael United 4-0 in the decider for the Second League Title. At this stage, relegation and promotion had not been incorporated into Manx Football.\n\nIn the 1933/34 season, they missed out on the title after losing to Peel in a decider, but made amends the following season by clinching their 2nd title.\n\nIn 1937, Malew made their first appearance in the Junior Cup Final only to be beaten by Rushen United but the following season they won their third Second League title. This was a historic occasion as Malew were the last side to win this trophy before the introduction of relegation & promotion.\n\nIn the 2014/15 season, Malew's striker Andy Glover won the Isle of Man FA Silver Boot after bagging 42 goals in 18 games and subsequently awarded with the title of Isle of Man Division 2 Player of the Year 2014/15.\n"}
{"id": "25559137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25559137", "title": "Marmnamarz", "text": "Marmnamarz\n\nMarmnamarz, published between 1911 and 1914, was the first sport magazine publication in the Ottoman Empire. Published in Armenian language by Shavarsh Krissian (with \"Marmnamarz\" meaning sport in Armenian) offered an additional incentive for extending the interest towards the sport among the Ottoman Armenians. \n\n\"Marmnamarz\", the \"body of national physical training\", became the major instrument for the development of sport and athletic life among the Armenian population. This magazine published information about various sport games and their results, as well as published photos of Armenian and foreign athletes and Armenian football teams.\n\n\"Marmnamarz\" ceased publication in 1914.\n\n"}
{"id": "579689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=579689", "title": "Mohawk Racetrack", "text": "Mohawk Racetrack\n\nWoodbine Mohawk Park is a harness racing track in Campbellville, Ontario. It is owned by the Woodbine Entertainment Group, formerly the Ontario Jockey Club, and is about 30 km west of the company's other racetrack, Woodbine Racetrack in Toronto, Ontario. Mohawk also has a large slot machine parlour, operated by OLG; some of the revenue from this operation is used to increase the horseracing purses.\n\nThe track was opened in 1963 by the then Ontario Jockey Club as Mohawk Racetrack.\n\nThe track is ⅞ mile (1.4 km) in circumference (originally ⅝ mile or 1 km), and is made of crushed limestone. It can accommodate ten starters behind the gate. The homestretch is 1,095 feet long (334 m), and the far turn has a larger radius than the clubhouse turn to encourage acceleration into the homestretch. There is no hubrail.\n\nMost of the major harness racing stakes events were moved from Woodbine to Mohawk in 2007. These races include-\n\n"}
{"id": "26843343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26843343", "title": "Morphy number", "text": "Morphy number\n\nThe Morphy number is a measure of how closely a chess player is connected to Paul Morphy (1837–1884) by way of playing chess games. People who played a chess game with Morphy have a Morphy number of 1. Players who did not play Morphy but played someone with a Morphy number of 1 have a Morphy number of 2. People who played someone with a Morphy number of 2 have a Morphy number of 3, et cetera.\n\nThe idea is similar to the Erdős number for mathematicians and the Bacon number for actors. For example, Viswanathan Anand, along with many current top players, has a Morphy number of 5: Anand played Efim Geller (Morphy number 4), who played Salo Flohr (Morphy number 3), who played Géza Maróczy (Morphy number 2), who played John Owen (Morphy number 1), who played Morphy. Taylor Kingston states that the idea of the Morphy number may have originated in a June 2000 note by Tim Krabbé, who has Morphy number 4.\nAs of April 2016, Leonard Barden, Pal Benko, Arthur Bisguier, Melvin Chernev, Dennis Horne, Borislav Ivkov, Erik Karklins, Franciscus Kuijpers, Aleksandar Matanović, Friðrik Ólafsson, Jonathan Penrose, Oliver Penrose, and Peter Swinnerton-Dyer were the only known living players with Morphy number 3.\n\nMany ordinary players have a Morphy number of 6 or less.\n\nThese are players who are important in making links for Morphy numbers.\n\nMorphy is known to have played about 100 people, but all of the known links for players with Morphy number 2 go through the following five players. Some Irish players could go through the Rev. Dr George Salmon, who played in one of Morphy's blindfold chess simultaneous exhibitions.\n\nEveryone in this group played someone in the group above.\nSome of the most important members of this group follow. Tartakower lost to Mortimer early in his chess career, which spanned beyond WW2, so allowed many younger players to gain a 3.\n\n\n\nMost of the masters in this group played several members of the previous group. This group includes some of the most important players for making connections to later generations. Botvinnik and Reshevsky played older masters such as Lasker and Janowski, had long careers, and played many younger players. Najdorf was Tartakower's pupil and they played a number of published games together, and Najdorf played blitz right into his 80s, allowing many younger players to achieve 4. C.J.S. Purdy played Tartakower (2), enabling many Australian players to achieve 4. As of March 2015, fewer than 15 of them are still alive.\n\n\n many of these players are still alive; a few (such as Short) are still active.\n\n many of the top grandmasters are in this group (along with a large number of lower-rated players).\n\n"}
{"id": "1852042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1852042", "title": "Myanmar at the 2000 Summer Olympics", "text": "Myanmar at the 2000 Summer Olympics\n\nBurma competed as Myanmar at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia.\n\nBurma's first appearance in Olympic archery resulted in a first round loss for its only archer.\n\n"}
{"id": "3566592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3566592", "title": "NHL All-Rookie Team", "text": "NHL All-Rookie Team\n\nThe NHL All-Rookie Team is chosen by the Professional Hockey Writers' Association from the best rookies in the National Hockey League at each position for the season just concluded based on their performance in that year. The team was first named after the 1982–83 NHL season and since then many future stars have been selected.\n\nThe team consists of one goalie, two defensemen and three forwards. In order to be considered a rookie in the NHL, the rookie must be eligible to win the Calder Memorial Trophy. The qualification criteria to be eligible are that the player must not have played in more than 25 NHL games in any previous year nor played in six or more NHL games in each of any two preceding seasons, as well as being under the age of 26 on September 15 of the season in which he is eligible. The age consideration was added after Sergei Makarov won the trophy at age 31 in 1990.\n\nThe only player to be awarded the Calder Trophy without being named to the All-Rookie Team is Pavel Bure (in 1991–92), because he received votes at both right wing and left wing, but not enough to lead at either position. Since that time, the rules have been changed so that all forwards are voted on together.\n\n\"Player's name written in italic denotes Calder Memorial Trophy finalist and written in bold indicates the winner of the Calder Memorial Trophy\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "77297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77297", "title": "Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame", "text": "Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame\n\nThe Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame is an American history museum and hall of fame, located at 1000 Hall of Fame Avenue in Springfield, Massachusetts. It serves as the sport's most complete library, in addition to promoting and preserving the history of basketball. Dedicated to Canadian-American physician and inventor of the sport James Naismith, it was opened and inducted its first class in 1959.\n\nAs of the induction of the Class of 2018, the Hall has formally inducted 389 individuals.\n\nThe Naismith Hall of Fame was established in 1959 by Lee Williams, a former athletic director at Colby College. In the 1960s, the Basketball Hall of Fame struggled to raise enough money for the construction of its first facility. However, during the following half-decade the necessary amount was raised, and the building opened on Feb. 17, 1968, less than one month after the National Basketball Association played its 18th All-Star Game. The Basketball Hall of Fame's Board named four inductees in its first year. In addition to honoring those who contributed to basketball, the Hall of Fame sought to make contributions of its own. In 1979, the Hall of Fame sponsored the Tip-Off Classic, a pre-season college basketball exhibition. This Tip-Off Classic has been the start to the college basketball season ever since, and although it does not always take place in Springfield, Massachusetts, generally it returns every few years.\n\nIn the 17 years that the original Basketball Hall of Fame operated at Springfield College, it drew more than 630,000 visitors. The popularity of the Basketball Hall of Fame necessitated that a new facility be constructed, and in 1985, an $11 million facility was built beside the scenic Connecticut River in Springfield. As the new hall opened, it also recognized women for the first time, with inductees such as Senda Berenson Abbott, who first introduced basketball to women at Smith College. During the years following its construction, the Basketball Hall of Fame's second facility drew far more visitors than ever anticipated, due in large part to the increasing popularity of the game but also to the scenic location beside the river and the second Hall's interesting modern architecture.\n\nIn 2002, the Basketball Hall of Fame moved again—albeit merely 100 yards south along Springfield's riverfront—into a $47 million facility designed by renowned architects Gwathmey Siegel & Associates. The building's architecture features a metallic silver, basketball-shaped sphere flanked by two similarly symmetrical rhombuses. The dome is illuminated at night and features 80,000 square foot (7,400 m²), including numerous restaurants and an extensive gift shop. The second Basketball Hall of Fame was not torn down but rather converted into an LA Fitness health clubs. The current Basketball Hall of Fame features Center Court, a full-sized basketball court on which visitors can play. Inside the building there are a game gallery, many interactive exhibits, several theaters, and an honor ring of inductees. A large theater for ceremonies seats up to 300. The honorees inducted in 2002 included the Harlem Globetrotters and Magic Johnson, a five-time NBA champion, three-time NBA finals MVP and Olympic gold medalist.\n\nAs of 2011, the current Basketball Hall of Fame has greatly exceeded attendance expectations, with basketball fans traveling to the Hall of Fame from all over the world. Despite the new facility's success, a logistical problem remains for the Basketball Hall of Fame and the City of Springfield. The two entities (along with the riverfront area entirely) are separated by the Interstate 91 elevated highway—one of the eastern United States' busiest highways—which, essentially, inhibits foot-traffic and other interaction between the Basketball Hall of Fame and Springfield's increasingly lively Metro Center. Both the Hall and Springfield have made public statements about cooperating further so as to facilitate even more business and recreational growth for both; however the placement and height of Interstate 91 remain physical obstacles. Urban planners at universities such as UMass Amherst have called for the I-91 to be moved, or to be re-configured so as to be pedestrian-friendly to Hall of Fame visitors. In 2010, the Urban Land Institute announced a plan to make the walk between Springfield's Metro Center and the Hall of Fame (and riverfront) easier.\n\nIn contrast to the Pro Football and the National Baseball Halls of Fame, Springfield honors international and American professionals, as well as American and international amateurs, making it arguably the most comprehensive Hall of Fame among major sports. Since 2011, the induction process employs a total of seven committees to both screen and elect candidates. Four of these committees screen prospective candidates:\n\nSince 2011, the Veterans and International Committees also vote to directly induct one candidate for each induction class.\n\nThree committees formed in 2011 directly elect one candidate for each induction class:\n\nIndividuals who receive at least seven votes from the North American Screening Committee or five votes from one of the other screening committees in a given year are eligible to advance to an Honors Committee, composed of 12 members who vote on each candidate and rotating groups of 12 specialists (one group for female candidates, one group for international candidates, and one group for American and veterans candidates). However, each screening committee is limited as to the number of candidates it can put forth to the Honors Committee—10 from the North American Committee, and two from each other committee. Any individual receiving at least 18 affirmative votes (75% of all votes cast) from the Honors Committee is approved for induction into the Hall of Fame. As long as the number of candidates receiving sufficient votes from a screening committee is not greater than the number of finalists that committee can put forth, advancement to the Honors Committee is generally pro forma, although the Hall's Board of Trustees may remove any candidate who \"has damaged the integrity of the game of basketball\" from consideration.\n\nTo be considered for induction by a screening committee, a player, retired coach, or referee must be fully retired from that role for at least three full seasons. This period had originally been five years, but was first changed to four years in December 2015, and to three seasons in December 2017. Prior to the induction class of 2018, referees had been eligible for induction upon 25 years of full-time service, even if still active. Changes to the criteria for consideration of active coaches were announced at the same time as the most recent changes to the induction process. Currently, coaches become eligible upon 25 years of full-time service at the high school level or above, or three seasons after retirement. Effective with the class of 2020, active coaches must meet the years of service requirement and be at least 60 years old. No years of service criterion is applied to those who have made a \"significant contribution to the game of basketball\". Sportswriters and commentators are elected as full-fledged members (in contrast to the Baseball Hall of Fame that places them in separate wings that are not considered in the \"real\" Hall of Fame).\n\nControversy has arisen over many aspects of the Hall's voting procedures, including voter anonymity. While sportswriter voters of other major sports' Halls of Fame openly debate their choices, the Naismith Hall does not make the process transparent. The Hall has also been criticized in opinion columns for a tendency to enshrine active collegiate coaches and relatively obscure players while omitting some accomplished players and coaches.\n\nSince 1959, 395 coaches, players, referees, contributors, and teams have been inducted, with the most recent class entering on September 8, 2018. John Wooden, Lenny Wilkens, Bill Sharman, and Tom Heinsohn have each been inducted as both player and coach (Wooden in 1960 and 1973, Sharman in 1976 and 2004, Wilkens in 1989 and 1998, and Heinsohn in 1986 and 2015). John McLendon has been inducted as both coach and contributor, entering in 1979 as a contributor and 2016 as a coach.\n\nOn three occasions, the Hall has inducted new classes without honoring a player – 1965, 1968, and 2007.\n\nIn conjunction with the Final Four of each year's NCAA Division I men's and women's basketball tournaments, the Naismith Hall gives out several awards to college basketball athletes:\n\nFor men, the Hall presents awards to the top players in Division I at each of the five standard basketball positions.\n\nEach of the award winners is chosen by a Hall of Fame selection committee, plus the award's namesake.\n\nThe Hall, in cooperation with the Women's Basketball Coaches Association, presents analogous awards for the top Division I women's players at each position. One has been awarded since 2000; the others were first presented in 2018.\n\nAs with the men's awards, the selection committee for the women's awards includes each award's namesake.\n\nThe Hall also formerly presented the Frances Pomeroy Naismith Award to two college seniors—one male player no taller than , and one female player no taller than —determined to have been the nation's best student-athletes. The men's award, given since 1969, was voted on by the National Association of Basketball Coaches (NABC), and the women's, given since 1984, by members of the Women's Basketball Coaches Association. Both awards were discontinued after the 2012–13 season.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43374723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43374723", "title": "PLDT HOME: The Last Home Stand", "text": "PLDT HOME: The Last Home Stand\n\nThe PLDT HOME: The Last Home Stand was a charity basketball event in the Philippines, primarily sponsored by the Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company (PLDT) and organized by East-West Private LLC, a US-based events organizing company, that featured the Philippine men's national basketball team (Gilas Pilipinas) together with the players from the National Basketball Association. The proceeds of the event will be given to the Philippine Disaster Recovery Foundation and Caritas Manila.\n\nTwo exhibition games between the Philippine national team and the NBA players were scheduled to be held on July 22 and 23 at the Smart Araneta Coliseum, but were postponed moments before tipoff of the first game after the NBA players were warned by their league officials of possible penalties and suspensions if they took part in a basketball activity not recognized by the NBA. A drills showcase from both teams were hastily organized in place of the scheduled exhibition game, which was negatively received by the paying patrons of the event. The organizers offered refunds for the ticket holders after the first exhibition game was cancelled. Subsequently, the scheduled activities for July 23, which included a meet-and-greet event at SM Megamall and the second exhibition game at the Smart Araneta Coliseum, were cancelled.\n\nThe event was first announced through the Twitter account of PLDT chairman and Samahang Basketbol ng Pilipinas president Manny V. Pangilinan on June 25, 2014. In his Twitter post, he announced that NBA players Blake Griffin, Damian Lillard, DeMar DeRozan and Paul Pierce would take part in two exhibition games scheduled on July 22 and 23 against Gilas Pilipinas, the Philippine men's basketball team, who are preparing for the 2014 FIBA World Cup. The national team's coach, Chot Reyes also confirmed the event through his Twitter account. Skills coach John Lucas II will also conduct a skills training camp during the event. Ticket prices were announced days later through Ticketnet, the ticketing arm of the Smart Araneta Coliseum, ranging from Php 23,330 (US$538.35) in the patron section to Php 750 (US$17.33) in the general admission section.\n\nOn July 1, the organizers announced that Kyle Lowry, Nick Johnson and 2014 NBA Finals MVP Kawhi Leonard would also take part with the event. Paul George was later added to the lineup according to Pangilinan in a post from his Twitter account on July 14. A day later, James Harden, Tyson Chandler and Brandon Jennings were confirmed to be part of the event. They also announced that Paul Pierce had pulled out of the event.\n\nThe event was organized by East-West Private LLC, a US-based events organizing company, who had been responsible for bringing in Kobe Bryant and Kevin Durant, among others, to play in an exhibition game in the Philippines in 2011, entitled Smart Ultimate All-Star Weekend, while an NBA lockout was ongoing.\n\nHours before the start of the first exhibition game on July 22, the organizers confirmed that Blake Griffin and Paul George had backed out of the event. In a video posted on the internet, Griffin apologized to the Filipino fans for not coming because \"something from home needed my urgent attention\". In a separate report, George cited \"personal reasons\" as the cause of his sudden pull-out. Matt Barnes became their last-minute replacement.\n\nAfter the traditional call up of players to the basketball court, Gilas Pilipinas coach Chot Reyes told the audience that the Gilas team and the NBA players would not be playing an exhibition game and would instead participate in a live open practice session. PLDT Vice President Ariel Fermin then told the crowd that if they were not satisfied with the event, the organizers would be offering a full refund for the purchased tickets. He reminded the audience that the proceeds of the event will be given to charity, saying \"\"Tulungan niyo kaming tulungan ang ibang tao\" (Help us help other people), after all, this is really for a good cause.\"\n\nThe event started with skills coach John Lucas II giving instructions to the players on drills, which were broken down in seven-minute segments. At first, the audience were responding positively with the drills, but as time went on, boos from the crowd started erupting after they realized that there will be no five-on-five game that night. When the event finished, the audience began to chant \"REFUND! REFUND! REFUND!\"\n\nIn a hastily called press conference, and in an official statement issued that same day, PLDT chairman Manny Pangilinan apologized to the basketball fans \"for disappointing them\". He also cancelled the events planned for the second day. He said that refunds would be made to those people who had purchased tickets. During the press conference, East West Holdings official Maria Espaldon told the media that they had not been able to secure clearance from the NBA to hold the event. In the hopes of having the event comply with the NBA's rules, the organizers set it up as a \"basketball clinic\" that also included a five-on-five scrimmage between the NBA players and the Gilas team. She also said that the event was never advertised as a game. Hours before the start of the event, the NBA players received calls from representatives of the league, who warned them that they were subject to possible fines and league suspensions should they take part in the activity.\n\nOn July 23, the NBA released a press statement regarding the reported intervention of the league in the charity event. East-West Private LLC failed to secure the clearance needed from the NBA for their players to be allowed to participate in the event, as stated in the league's collective bargaining agreement, even after they informed the promoters about the process \"several months ago\"\n\nThe organizers reportedly spent up to P200 million (USD$4.6 million) for the event and paid the participating players up to US$150,000 each. The Games and Amusements Board, the Philippine government agency responsible on regulating professional sports events warned that sanctions will be served to the organizers, and may be liable for misleading the public that a basketball exhibition game would be held during the event.\n\nRefunds for the tickets were processed starting on July 24. Ticket holders who bought the tickets through Ticketnet were advised to go to the Smart Araneta Coliseum box office to claim their refunds. For those who bought the tickets online, their credit card charges were to be reversed.\n"}
{"id": "8038155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8038155", "title": "Parque Yldefonso Solá Morales", "text": "Parque Yldefonso Solá Morales\n\nParque Yldefonso Solá Morales was a multi-use stadium in Caguas, Puerto Rico. It was formerly used mostly for baseball games and was the home of Criollos de Caguas. The stadium held 10,000 people. The hockey events for the 2010 Central American and Caribbean Games were held there. The stadium is named after the senator Yldefonso Solá Morales. In 2018, the stadium was closed permanently and will be demolished soon\n"}
{"id": "47160314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47160314", "title": "Paul Connolly (cricketer)", "text": "Paul Connolly (cricketer)\n\nPaul Connolly (born 1 November 1990) is a cricketer from Jersey. He played in the 2011 ICC World Cricket League Division Six tournament.\n"}
{"id": "4341449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4341449", "title": "Peteca", "text": "Peteca\n\nPeteca () is a traditional sport in Brazil, played with a \"hand shuttlecock\" from indigenous origins and reputed to be as old as the country itself. The same name is given to the shuttlecock-object itself.\n\nThe objective of the game is to hit the shuttlecock-like object (the peteca) with your hand over a high net, similar to a volleyball net, causing the object to land inbounded on the opposite court. The peteca can only be hit once while on each side of the net. Doubles and singles, male and/or female matches are played, both for competitive or leisure purposes.\n\nThe word \"peteca\" is derived from a Tupian word meaning \"hit\". Over time, the word found its way into the Brazilian Portuguese language.\n\nOriginally, peteca was played at times of celebration with dances and songs. Gradually, this play became more of a sporting activity. The game has been passed down through several generations by the Brazilian ancestors and has developed considerably along the way.\n\nEarly petecas were very primitive home-made affairs consisting of stones wrapped in leaves tied inside an ear of corn. A more sophisticated version was described in a Brazilian-English dictionary as \"a leather pad with feathers stuck into it.\"\n\nPictures of the first petecas are few and far between, but on 30 May 1979, Brazil issued a set of four postage stamps depicting children's toys, to commemorate the International Year of the Child.\n\nWhen Brazil was present at the 1920 Summer Olympics in Antwerp, Belgium the Brazilian athletes took with them some shuttlecocks for amusement on the ship and during the intervals between games. The game of peteca fascinated athletes from many other countries who wanted learn the rules of the game. The problem was that there were no rules - it was just for pleasure.\n\nPeteca left the streets, the grass and the sand to become a field sport in Belo Horizonte in the 1940s.\n\nIt was in Belo Horizonte, the capital city of Minas Gerais state, that the toy shape was transformed to its current format, proper for competitive games. The typical peteca has four white chicken feathers attached to a base and connected to a bottom made with several thin layers of rubber. It was also in Belo Horizonte that the rules of the game were first written, as well as the first courts were built and the practice gained competitive sense with internal championships that were held in various social clubs of the city.\n\nIn 1973 the Peteca Federation of Minas Gerais (FEMP) was founded, confirming the pioneering spirit of a sport born and developed among the Brazilian people. From Belo Horizonte, the practice has spread to other Brazilian states, and from there to other countries, like France, that adopted the game as it is played in Brazil.\n\nPeteca is now one of Brazil's fastest growing sports closely behind football and volleyball. Another version of the game, called Indiaca, and closely based on peteca has developed in Germany, first appearing in 1936.\n\nA peteca match is played to the best of the three games, singles or doubles. The first player (or the first pair) who scores twelve points wins the set. One game can last only a maximum of twenty minutes. If neither of the two sides have reached the required score, then the win is given to the team with the most points.\n\nThe peteca must be struck with one hand only and must pass above the net to the oppositions side in order for them to return it. The server remains the same one until the service changes side. A point can only be won by the serving team. The player with the service has thirty seconds to score the point. If this is not achieved then the service is given to the opposing player/team.\n\nThere are a number of recognised faults which can occur.\n\n\n\nCompetitive court games have been played in Brazil since the early 1930s. It was only in 1973 that the first rules were written.\n\nIn 1985, the National Sports Council of Brazil drew up the first official set of rules so that competitions could be held between cities and states, and only into 1987 that the first Brazilian championship of peteca was organized. In 1995, under the direction of the President of the Brazilian Confederation of Terrestrial Sports, new rules were introduced into the game play to make it still more competitive and attractive.\n\nCurrently, in Brazil, there's a Confederação Brasileira de Peteca, still incipient, being formed around the preexistent Federação Mineira de Peteca, from the state of Minas Gerais.\n\nA version of peteca, indiaca, was developed by in Germany in 1936 and is very popular. However, France was one of the first European countries to embrace peteca proper. The Federation Française de Peteca (FFP) is the national organ for France and was created in February 1997 by Jean-François Impinna, a French former international rugby player, and counts thousands of French peteca players.\n\nThe United Kingdom has recently followed suit and taken up the game with the United Kingdom Peteca Association - UKPA leading its development.\n\nMay 2006 would see the first International Peteca Tournament being hosted by the FFP in Sannois, Paris. Teams from Brazil, France and the United Kingdom were to compete.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34946697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34946697", "title": "Poznań bid for the 2018 Summer Youth Olympics", "text": "Poznań bid for the 2018 Summer Youth Olympics\n\nPoznań 2018 was a bid by the city of Poznań and the Polish Olympic Committee to host the 2018 Summer Youth Olympics. Poznan withdrew their bid on October 9, 2012 for financial reasons.\n\nPoznań was revealed to be one of the bidding cities for the 2018 Summer Youth Olympics when the IOC announced who the applicants were on March 2, 2012.\n\nPoznań was one of the eight cities that hosted games during the UEFA Euro 2012 championship. The Stadion Miejski hosted three matches during the championship.\n\nPoznań, in last few years, was a host city of such sport events as the 2011 Men's Indoor Hockey World Cup. In 2010 the city hosted the Academic Canoeing World Cup, Academic Basketball World Cup, European Male Basketball Cup and the European Athletic Cup for vets. In 2006 the city hosted the Academic Futsal World Cup and was one of the host cities for the 2006 UEFA European Under-19 Football Championship.\n\nOn October 8, 2012 the city council rejected the proposed budget for the bid. There was a lack of financial guarantees from the city organizer and the city withdrew its bid.\n\nBuenos Aires was ultimately elected as the host city of the 2018 Summer Youth Olympic Games on July 4, 2013.\n\nPoznań bid to host the 2014 Summer Youth Olympics but lost to Nanjing by only five votes. They bid to host the 2010 Summer Youth Olympics but failed to become a candidate. Those games were ultimately awarded to Singapore.\n\nZakopane bid to host the 2006 Winter Olympics but lost to Turin.\n\n"}
{"id": "5685214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5685214", "title": "Shakhter Stadium (Karagandy)", "text": "Shakhter Stadium (Karagandy)\n\nShakhtyor Stadium is a multi-use stadium in Karaganda, Kazakhstan. It is currently used mostly for football matches and is the home stadium of FC Shakhter. \n\n"}
{"id": "12987870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12987870", "title": "Sillamäe Kalevi Stadium", "text": "Sillamäe Kalevi Stadium\n\nSillamäe Kalevi staadion is a multi-purpose stadium in Sillamäe, Estonia. It is currently used mostly for football matches and hosts the matches of JK Sillamäe Kalev. The stadium holds 800 people.\n\n"}
{"id": "38975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38975", "title": "Skateboarding trick", "text": "Skateboarding trick\n\nA skateboarding trick, or simply a trick, is a maneuver performed on a skateboard while skateboarding. Skateboarding tricks may vary greatly in difficulty.\n\nThough skateboards emerged in the 1900s, skateboarding tricks like the ones done today did not appear until decades later. In the 1970s and earlier, the most common tricks were \"2D\" freestyle types such as manuals and pivots. Only later in the 1980s and early 1990s were common modern-day tricks like the ollie and kickflip invented by Alan Gelfand and Rodney Mullen, setting the stage for other aerial tricks.\n\nAn \"Ollie\" is a jump where the front wheels leave the ground first. This motion is attained with a snap of the tail (from the backfoot) and sliding your front-foot forward to reach any altitude. A lot of technical tricks transpire from this element (e.g. the kickflip, heelflip, 360-flip). A nollie is when the back wheels leave the ground first by snapping the nose of the board, with the back foot sliding towards the tail.\n\nA \"Grab\" involves floating in the air, while using either hand to hold the board against the feet or keeping constant and careful pressure on the board with the feet to keep it from floating away. Indy Grab usually combine rotation with different grabs. This class of tricks was first popularized when Tony Hawk became famous for his frontside airs in empty swimming pools in the late 1970s and has expanded to include the bulk of skateboarding tricks to this day, including the ollie and all of its variations. The 900 and 1080 fall under the class of aerials, though these are commonly confused with aerial grabs.\n\n\"Flip tricks\" are a subset of aerials which are all based on the ollie. An example is the kickflip, the most widely known and performed flip trick. The board can be spun around many different axes as part of a flip trick, thus combining several rotations into one trick. These tricks are undoubtedly most popular among street skateboarding purists, although skaters with other styles perform them as well. Combining spins and flips is extremely popular in today's culture. A common trick in skateboarding lines is a 360 flip, or tre flip. A 360 flip is the combination of a skateboard spinning 360 degrees and a kickflip. There are also double kickflips and triple kickflips which are very difficult but highly regarded in the skateboarding culture.\n\n\"Freestyle skateboarding tricks\" are tricks specifically associated with freestyle skateboarding.\n\nSlides and grinds involve getting the board up on some type of ledge, rail, or coping and sliding or grinding along the board or trucks, respectively. When it is primarily the board which is contacting the edge, it's called a slide; when it's the truck, it is a grind. Grinding and sliding skateboards started with sliding the board on parking blocks and curbs, then extended to using the coping on swimming pools, then stairway handrails, and has now been expanded to include almost every possible type of edge. Grinds and slides on street environments were brought to mainstream skateboarding by professional skateboarder Natas Kaupas.\n"}
{"id": "9352864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9352864", "title": "Ski jumping hill", "text": "Ski jumping hill\n\nA ski jumping hill is a sports venue used for ski jumping. They vary in size from temporary handmade snow structures to permanent competition venues. At the top is an in-run where the jumper runs down to generate sufficient speed, before reaching the jump. The skier is then airborne until landing on the landing slope. The last part of the hill is the out-run, which may be either flat or even uphill, allowing the jumper to stop. The steepest point of the hill is the construction point, which is used to determine the score of a particular length. The size of a hill is measured in the hill size. Hills with a hill size exceeding HS185 are designated ski flying hills; there are five such hills in the world.\n\nThe top of the hill is the start. This allows the jury to regulate the speed of the jumpers in varying wind conditions, by shortening or lengthening the distance along the in-run. The platform has a bar across it, which the jumper sits on. By leaning forward, the jumper will naturally start to glide down the prepared tracks along the in-run. The in-run normally has an angle of 38 to 36 degrees, which then curves into a transition; the last part of the in-run, the take-off, typically has an angle between 7 and 12 degrees downhill. The landing slope has a smooth curve which closely follows the profile of the ski jump; this means that the skier is never more than about above the ground. The skier will land on the landing slope, and the rules allow jumpers to land up to ten percent past the construction point. Past the landing slope is the outrun, which is either flat or even uphill, where the skier can slow down. The speed of the skier is normally measured about before the end of the takeoff; jumpers can reach speeds of on large hills and on ski flying hills.\nIn 2004, the International Ski Federation replaced the calculation point as the measurement of the size of a hill with hill size. The hill size is the length from the takeoff in a straight line to the knoll and then along the level of the landing slope to the hill size point. The hill size point is calculated based on the technical data of a hill based on radius, angle of inclination and record distance. The calculation point or K-point is slightly further up in the hill and denotes the point where the landing slope is the steepest. It is still used for the calculation of distance points, which along with style points determine the winner of an event. For hills up to large, the scoring system grants 60 points to jumps which reach the critical point. For ski flying hills, 120 points are granted for the critical point length. Based on the hill's length, distance points are calculated, which are added for each meter beyond the critical point and subtracted for each point shorter than the critical point. A meter has more distance points in smaller hills. Hills also have a fall line; a jumper who falls or otherwise touches the ground with their body after the fall line is not penalized.\n\nThe measuring of a distance in a hill was traditionally done by people who were positioned along the hill, who would signal where the skier landed. Today this is instead measured by an advanced video system, which allows measurements in 0.5-meter increments.\n\n"}
{"id": "8648289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8648289", "title": "Small Arms and Light Weapons", "text": "Small Arms and Light Weapons\n\nSmall Arms and Light Weapons (SALW) is a term used in arms control protocols to refer to two main classes of man portable weapons.\n\n“Small arms” are, broadly speaking, firearms designed for individual use. They include: handguns, rifles, carbines, sub-machine guns, assault rifles and light machine guns. \n\n“Light weapons” are, broadly speaking, crew-served machine guns and high-explosive projectile weapons. They include: general-purpose machine gun, medium machine guns, heavy machine guns, rifle grenades, grenade launchers, automatic grenade launchers, anti-tank rifles, recoilless rifles, rocket-propelled grenades, man-portable anti-tank missiles, man-portable air-defense systems, and mortars of a calibre of less than 100 millimetres.\n\nSmall Arms and Light Weapons also include ammunition, explosives, hand grenades, land mines and any other man portable weapons not listed above.\n\nAccording to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, the international framework on firearms is composed of three main instruments: the Firearms Protocol, the United Nations Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects (Programme of Action, or PoA) and the International Instrument to Enable States to Identify and Trace, in a Timely and Reliable Manner, Illicit Small Arms and Light Weapons (International Tracing Instrument, or ITI), where only the Firearms Protocol is legally binding.\n\nThe ITI, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 8 December 2005, defines small arms and light weapons as:\n\nSuch arms control policies and treaties are focused on international arms trafficking (importation and export), and in the standardization of laws, protocols and sharing of law enforcement information and best practices across nations to prevent illicit arms sales. They also focus on terrorism, arms proliferation as a humanitarian concern, disarmament in the face of extreme violence, and cases of ameliorating anarchy, civil war and international conflict. SALW provisions are generally not oriented towards imposing or enforcing domestic national or local legislation of legitimate gun ownership or sale.\n\nSmall arms and light weapons are used in conflicts around the world, causing injury and death. Small arms control was first broached by UN Resolution A/RES/46/36 (December 1991), which was expanded upon by A/RES/50/70 (January 1996). This latter resolution mandated a panel of experts to research the type of small arms and light weapons being used in the world's conflicts and to study which weapons might apply to fall under an arms control regime. The recommendations of expert reports returned to the General Assembly, A/52/298 (1997) and A/54/258 (1999) led to a July 2001 United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms, with a follow-up in July 2006.\n\nOn 26 September 2013 the UN Security Council passed Resolution 2117, which urged nations to remain committed to small arms embargoes and SALW control protocols.\n\nWork on SALW via the United Nations is coordinated by the Office for Disarmament Affairs (UNODA), though the UN Coordinating Action on Small Arms (CASA) mechanism, which comprises 21 UN departments and agencies working on different aspects of small arms and light weapons control. The United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research (UNIDIR), carries out research in arms control affairs and has published many articles and books related to small arms and light weapons.\n\nOn 2 April 2013, the UN General Assembly voted overwhelmingly to adopt the Arms Trade Treaty (ATT) to govern the legal international trade in many types of conventional weapons, from warships and aircraft to small arms and light weapons. A basic obligation of the treaty is that all States Parties should establish or maintain controls in the area. In this way, the treaty also helps the international community to address unregulated or illegal trade in conventional weapons. The treaty opened for signature on 3 June 2013. To date, two-thirds of UN member states have signed the treaty (130 states), and 72 have ratified it. The treaty entered into force on December 24, 2014.\n\nMany other related governmental bodies and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) also work on SALW control, major examples being IANSA, Saferworld and the Control Arms Campaign. Regional and sub-regional organizations working on SALW control include the African Union, ECCAS, the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), Southern African Development Community, Andean Community, CARICOM, MERCOSUR, Organization of American States (OAS), European Union, the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, ASEAN, the League of Arab States, and the Pacific Islands Forum.\n\nIn 2018, Small Arms Survey reported that there are over one billion small arms distributed globally, of which 857 million (about 85 percent) are in civilian hands. U.S. civilians alone account for 393 million (about 46 percent) of the worldwide total of civilian held firearms. This amounts to \"120.5 firearms for every 100 residents.\" The worlds armed forces control about 133 million (about 13 percent) of the global total of small arms, of which over 43 percent belonging to two countries the Russian Federation (30.3 million) and China (27.5 million). Law enforcement agencies control about 23 million (about 2 percent) of the global total of small arms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17583313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17583313", "title": "Solomon Warriors F.C.", "text": "Solomon Warriors F.C.\n\nSolomon Warriors FC are a Solomon Islands football club, formerly known as Uncles FC. They have also played in the S-League under the name \"Wantoks\".\n\n\n\n\n\"Squad for the 2018/19 S-League\"\n"}
{"id": "18083159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18083159", "title": "Stade Pierre Claver Divounguy", "text": "Stade Pierre Claver Divounguy\n\nThe Stade Pierre Claver Divounguy is a stadium primarily used for football matches in Port-Gentil, Gabon. It is the home of the Gabonese team AS Stade Mandji of the Gabon Championnat National D1. The stadium has capacity to 7,000 people. \n\n"}
{"id": "3439730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3439730", "title": "T-Blades", "text": "T-Blades\n\n\"T-Blades\" are a type of hockey skate blade manufactured by the German company T-Blade . Unlike tradition skate blades, T-blades are replaced when worn out. The manufacturer of the T-Blade states that \"Compared to conventional skate blades, the T-Blade runner lasts 4-5 times longer.\" The T-Blade is held to the skate chassis by a stabilizer and six screws which require a special three-pronged wrench. The blades are sold pre-sharpened. Jochen Hecht of the Buffalo Sabres, Dennis Seidenberg of the New York Islanders, Marcel Goc of the Nashville Predators, and Christian Ehrhoff of the Buffalo Sabres are NHL players who use T-Blade skates.\n"}
{"id": "50816723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50816723", "title": "Tegucigalpa Olympic Village", "text": "Tegucigalpa Olympic Village\n\nThe Olympic Village of Tegucigalpa is a sports complex situated in the northeastern part of Tegucigalpa, the capital of Honduras. The Government of Honduras designed the complex to serve as the city's main sports center, and also to provide accommodation for athletes participating in international events. It is located to the north of the Autonomous National University of Honduras. Entry is free of charge and there are facilities for many types of sport. It is owned by the state of Honduras and managed by the National Commission for Sporting Installations (CONAPID), within a monthly budget of 10 million \"lempiras\".\n\nThe Tegucigalpa Olympic Village was built in 1989, during the presidency of José Azcona del Hoyo. It was designed by various architects and engineers from Tegucigalpa, aiming to modernize the area and to be capable of accommodating the Central American and Caribbean Games.\n\nThe Olympic village includes a variety of facilities with sports equipment, including weights, gymnasiums, an Olympic-size swimming pool, several football pitches, basketball, volleyball, and tennis courts. \n\nThe buildings of the facility include:\n\nThe Olympic Village is open to the public from 4:00 am until 8:00 pm daily. No fee is charged to use the facilities, as the complex is regarded as the property of all Hondurans. It typically receives at least 10,000 visits a day, attracting many walkers and runners as a relatively safe place within the city.\n\nThe maintenance of the Olympic Village is the responsibility of CONAPID, using funding of less than 10 million lempiras per month. This funding is derived mainly from rental income and advertising at the Tiburcio Carías Andino Stadium.\n\nThe Olympic Village does not collect fees from the public for provision of the installations, although sports organisations do levy a minimal charge to raise funds for participation in international competitions. It has been noted that with the constant increase of the price of all resources, adequate maintenance of the complex would require the government to increase the budgetary allocation by at least 30 million \"lempiras\".\n\nCONAPID secured a grant of one million dollars, equivalent to some 20 million \"lempiras\", from the Central American Bank for Economic Integration (BCIE) to renovate the Olympic Village. At present it receives adequate maintenance, with 3.5 million \"lempiras\" allocated to its maintenance in 2008.\n\nGermán Duarte, the current supervisor of projects, is engaged with the repair of pitches and the repainting of floors in the three gymnasiums of the sports complex. A new roof has been provided at the Olympic swimming pool, stairways and perimeter fences have been repainted, and several planting areas have been improved.\n\nFurther improvements undertaken by CONAPID during 2015, at a cost of 14 million \"lempiras\", included fitting over 300 LED lights, resurfacing all the main roadways, and a new tartan track.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3678692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3678692", "title": "The Lawn Ground", "text": "The Lawn Ground\n\nThe Lawn Ground was located in Nailsworth, Gloucestershire, England, and was, from 1890 to 2006, home to the English football club, Forest Green Rovers who currently play in League 2. The Lawn Ground also hosted local cup finals as well as being home to Forest Green's Ladies and youth sides. \n\nThe ground was located at the top of a steep hill in the hamlet of Forest Green and had a total capacity of 5,141 people. Forest Green matches drew approximately 1,000 spectators on average at the Lawn Ground. The ground's record attendance is 3,002 for a match between Forest Green and St Albans City, in a FA Trophy semi-final on 18 April 1999. \n\nUntil the 1950s, the Lawn was little more than an open field, but the Rovers' success required upgrades to the stadium. At this point, terraces were constructed for fans and a \"famously partial leveling of the pitch\" occurred.\n\nIn 1996, the Trevor Horsley Stand, named after the chairman of the club, Trevor Horsley, was constructed for over £200,000. This stand seated 300 and included three hospitality boxes, underground changing rooms, a board room, function room, bar, a health suite and offices. It also featured a quirky watermill behind the stand. Aside from the Trevor Horsley Stand, the rest of the ground, about 80 percent, was terraced. \n\nThe biggest terrace stand was the covered Barnfield Terrace. The terrace was built during 2001 and 2002 to increase the ground's capacity, and Forest Green fans paid to have their names engraved onto bricks inside that stand. The Barnfield Terrace was sponsored by Rockwool. When the club left the ground at the end of the 2005-2006 season, the stand was transferred brick by brick to their new ground. \n\nOther sections of the Lawn Ground included the Nympsfield Road Terrace which was located behind a goal at the northern end of the ground.\n\nThe Lawn Ground was demolished and turned into housing after the club moved into the new, modern The New Lawn Stadium, which now hosts all their matches. Forest Green began playing at the new stadium which is only a few hundred yards from the old Lawn, from the start of the 2006-2007 season.\n"}
{"id": "14682928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14682928", "title": "Timeline of foundation of national rugby unions", "text": "Timeline of foundation of national rugby unions\n\nThis timeline lists the foundation dates of the national governing bodies for rugby union—known as rugby unions or federations. The first union was the Rugby Football Union (RFU) that was founded in 1871 to govern rugby union within England. It was founded following the first ever rugby union international, played between England and Scotland in 1871. The Scottish Football Union (later renamed the Scottish Rugby Union) was then founded in 1873, the Irish Rugby Football Union in 1879 and the Welsh Rugby Union in 1881.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2372973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2372973", "title": "Tripoli Stadium", "text": "Tripoli Stadium\n\nThe Tripoli International Stadium () is a multi-purpose stadium in Tripoli, Libya. It can hold 88,000 spectators.\n\nIt is the main venue used by the Libyan national football team in its FIFA World Cup and African Nations Cup qualifying matches as well as friendlies and other international games.\nThe stadium hosted many games of the 1982 African Cup of Nations held in Libya along with the 28 March Stadium in Benghazi; it was the venue for the final between Ghana and Libya. It hosted the 2002 Italian Supercup between Juventus and Parma, which Juventus won, 2–1.\n\nIts old name (June 11 Stadium) is a reference to the date of the withdrawal of U.S. forces from Libya, June 11, 1970.\n"}
{"id": "6489773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6489773", "title": "Twerton Park", "text": "Twerton Park\n\nTwerton Park is a football stadium in the Twerton suburb of Bath, England. It is currently used for football matches and is the home ground of Bath City. From 1986 to 1996 Bristol Rovers played there following their departure from Eastville. The stadium has a capacity of 8,840 people, with 1,066 seats.\n\nThe ground was opened on 26 June 1909 as Innox Park on land that had been donated by Thomas Carr. The opening ceremony involved a parade of scholars, the singing of hymns and a speech by the chairman of the parish council.\n\nTwerton Park became Bath City's ground in 1932. A record attendance of 18,020 was recorded in 1960 versus Brighton & Hove Albion. The ground has also hosted Team Bath, who were a full-time professional team playing in the Conference South until their resignation at the end of the 2008–09 season.\n\nAt the end of the 2011–12 season the club offered the naming rights to Twerton Park for just £50. The offer drew 167 entries from as far afield as the US, Australia, Norway and Singapore which raised £3,850 for the club. Businesses made up 58 of the entries with only a handful of the remaining personalised entries being deemed unsuitable. The winning entry drawn at random was The Mayday Trust, a charitable organisation that helps to rehome vulnerable people.\n\nTalks have been held in the past between Bath Rugby and Bath City about sharing a ground, as the former team wish to move away from their home ground Recreation Ground, although nothing has amounted from this. Following the resignation of Chairman Manda Rigby, she claimed that the club needed to move away from Twerton Park to \"sustain their finances\".\n\n"}
{"id": "51365821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51365821", "title": "White Nights (badminton)", "text": "White Nights (badminton)\n\nThe White Nights (also known as \"St. Petersburg White Nights\", ) is an open international badminton tournament in Russia. This tournament has been an International Challenge level and part of Badminton Europe circuit.\n\n"}
