{"id": "3267262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3267262", "title": "1695 in music", "text": "1695 in music\n\nThe year 1695 in music involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "225838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225838", "title": "1706 in literature", "text": "1706 in literature\n\nThis article presents lists of the literary events and publications in 1706.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52719564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52719564", "title": "Abgineh Museum of Tehran", "text": "Abgineh Museum of Tehran\n\nThe Glassware and Ceramic Museum of Iran (, \"Muze-ye Abgineh va Sofalineh-ye Irān\") or simply Abgineh Museum (, \"Muze-ye Abgineh\") is located at 30 Tir Street (formerly known as Ghavam Al Saltaneh Street), in Tehran, Iran.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53168673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53168673", "title": "Association of Chinese language writers in Europe", "text": "Association of Chinese language writers in Europe\n\nAssociation of Chinese Language Writers in Europe (CWAE, ) was established in 1991 in Paris. It is the first association dedicated to the promotion and creation of contemporary Chinese literary work. Its first president was Ms. Susie Chao, a renown Chinese writer, and its current president is Sheng-Mei Hsu, a Chinese writer based in Germany. Since its inception, over the years, the association has been recognized as a driving force successfully assembling and supporting the Chinese writers in Europe. It currently has over 80 members, across 22 countries.\n\nThe CWAE was founded on 16 March 1991 in Paris, after more than a year of intense preparation led by Ms. Susie Chao. For this purpose, she worked almost on a daily basis with a number of Chinese writers who were based in Paris. A European association, uniting those working towards an overseas Chinese literary body with European characteristics, was finally established. This was the first time in the history of overseas Chinese in Europe, that a truly pan-European Chinese writers’ organization was formed. Apart from a few (Ms. Susie Chao, Mr. Chu Wen-Huei, Ms. Lu Ta-Ming, Ms. Wang Jiafeng), all other founding members (Ms. Foncy Kuo, Ms. Hsu Sheng-Mei, Ms. S.S. Schwedler, Ms. Yang Ling, Mr. Zu Wei) only finally met face to face either at their hotel on the eve of the opening ceremony or during the ceremony itself. At that time, Mr. Sui Haoping, then only 30-year-old, but already a well-known writer, TV presenter, and a household name in Taiwan, was in the UK for his PhD studies. It took all Ms. Chao’s persistence to locate and then persuade him to join the association. To ensure that the venue and organization of the opening ceremony were perfectly ready, Ms. Chao, who was based in Switzerland, undertook a special trip to Paris prior to the event. Many VIPs traveled from all over the world to Paris to attend the opening ceremony (among others Mr. Fu Zhaoxiang, the future President of the World Association of Chinese Writers; Mr. Ya Xuan, Chief Editor of the magazine of the \"United Daily News\" from Taiwan; Mr. Mei Xin, Chief Editor of the magazine of the \"Central Daily News\" from Taiwan).\n\nThe gala dinner for the opening ceremony was held in a Chinese restaurant, for which a whole floor was reserved to accommodate over 100 guests. A Chinese classical music orchestra and amateurs of Chinese opera from London came to perform. Ms. Chao was instrumental in soliciting subsidies from numerous relevant organizations to cover the costs. On the next day, leading Chinese language newspapers in Europe and Taiwan dedicated special full page coverage to this major event for the Chinese cultural world in Europe. Since then, the CWAE has evolved, matured in its organization and is recognized today as one of the most important associations of its kind.\n\nThe CWAE, besides the Chinese Writers Association of Asia, is one of the earliest branches that led to the formation of the World Association of Chinese Writers (WACW). The Chinese Writers Association of North America was established in 1992, after which other such associations were established in South America, Australia and Africa. They all contributed then, across the seven continents, to form the WACW.\n\nThe WACW was established in the winter of 1993 in Taipei, Taiwan, with an opening ceremony held at the Grand Hotel. A delegation of 14 members of the CWAE attended the event. Chinese writers, who until then mostly worked in isolation in different parts of the world, came under one roof, to share the same passion and a longing for their homeland. In the excitement of the exchanges and the warmth of friendship, nobody noticed the particularly cold weather during the event. Today the WACW, with 113 branches and 4,000 members all over the world, has become the largest association of Chinese writers.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44139901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44139901", "title": "AtheistTV", "text": "AtheistTV\n\nAtheistTV is the world's first atheism-dedicated television channel. Founded by the American Atheists organisation, announced on the May 7, 2014, and launched on July 29 the same year, its goal is to give a yet-unavailable broadcast voice to an already strong and growing atheist community. It is available through the Roku streaming network, as well as online through the American Atheists website.\n\nAs of August 2014, in addition to its live streaming channel, Atheist TV offers the following content:\n\n"}
{"id": "37828868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37828868", "title": "Bandhobi", "text": "Bandhobi\n\nBandhobi () is a 2009 South Korean independent film about a frustrated and rebellious high school student who ends up becoming a friend of a migrant worker from Bangladesh who is desperate to receive his unpaid wages back. The title means \"female friend\" in Bengali.\n\nLead actor Mahbub Alam is a longtime resident of South Korea who entered the country as a migrant worker. He has since appeared in small film roles and become involved in various activist projects, including the launch of the Migrant Worker Film Festival, for which he serves as festival director.\n\nKarim (Mahbub Alam) is a 27-year-old Bangladeshi working in an industrial laundry. An intellectual whose academic degree was not recognized in South Korea, Karim's work permit is about to expire and he's still owed a year's pay by a previous employer, Shin (Jung Dong-gyu), who's not taking his calls; meanwhile, his wife back home is giving him a hard time about money problems.\n\nSeventeen-year-old high schooler Min-seo (Baek Jin-hee) is a social loner at odds with her mother, Eun-joo (Lee Il-hwa), who has a jobless, live-in lover, Ki-hong (Park Hyuk-kwon), whom she's planning to marry. Minseo's friends all take after-school classes at study institutes, but her single mother can't afford to pay for them. She eventually gets an under the table job at a massage parlor in order to pay for English classes.\n\nOn the first day of summer vacation, Min-seo is riding the bus when Karim drops his wallet. He exits the bus, and Min-seo takes the wallet for herself. However, Karim soon realizes what happens and manages to chase Min-seo down in a side street. \"Let's go to the police station,\" he says in excellent Korean, but Min-seo tries to dissuade Karim from reporting her to the police by offering to grant him a favor, and reluctantly agrees to help track down his former boss. As the unlikely pair pose as loan sharks, they find themselves transforming each other's worlds in unexpected ways. They slowly form a mutual understanding, with the girl asking indiscreet questions and the gentleman preaching about problems in South Korean society. For Min-seo, Karim is initially a convenient badge she can wear in a society she sees herself at war with. But as she lowers her defenses, the relationship touchingly turns into a friendship between two lonely souls. But Karim's visa will not last forever.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "315896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=315896", "title": "BookCrossing", "text": "BookCrossing\n\nBookCrossing (also BC, BCing or BXing) is defined as \"the practice of leaving a book in a public place to be picked up and read by others, who then do likewise.\" The term is derived from bookcrossing.com, a free online book club which was founded to encourage the practice, aiming to \"make the whole world a library.\"\n\nThe \"crossing\" or exchanging of books may take any of a number of forms, including wild-releasing books in public, direct swaps with other members of the websites, or \"book rings\" in which books travel in a set order to participants who want to read a certain book. The community aspect of BookCrossing.com has grown and expanded in ways that were not expected at the outset, in the form of blog or forum discussions, mailing lists and annual conventions throughout the world.\n\nLeaving reading materials in public places when no longer needed has long been a silent means of communication and sociability amongst bibliophiles. Ron Hornbaker conceived the idea for what is now known as BookCrossing in March 2001 and enlisted business partners and co-founders Bruce and Heather Pedersen to launch BookCrossing.com on April 21, 2001.\n\nAfter two years the website had over 113,000 members and by 2004 it was prominent enough to be referenced in an episode of the Australian soap opera \"Neighbours\". The same year it appeared as a new word in the \"Concise Oxford Dictionary,\" although as of 2017 only Collins of the major online dictionaries retained it as a word. Membership surpassed 1,000,000 by March 2012 and the registered book count exceeded 8,500,000. By 2017, there were over 1.7 million members and over 11.7 million books travelling through 132 countries.\n\nIn July 2007 Singapore became the first country to give the practice official status, designating 2,000 locations in the country as 'hotspots', similar to Official BookCrossing Zones, in an initiative launched with the National Library of Singapore. The world's first official International BookCrossing Day took place on 21 April 2014.\n\nIn May 2005 BookCrossing.com won two People's Voice awards in the Webby Awards for best community website and best social/networking website. BookCrossing was also featured in a BBC Radio project broadcast as 84 Book Crossing Road, which involved releasing 84 copies of Helene Hanff's book \"84 Charing Cross Road\" around the world. The programme was nominated for a Sony Radio Academy Award in 2006.\n\nAnyone who wishes to officially participate in \"releasing\" books, whether leaving it in a public place or passing it on to a friend, may register on the BookCrossing.com website, although there is the option to remain anonymous when \"catching\" or recording the find of a book. BookCrossing.com users can 'go hunting', where a member will go to the website to view a list of books that have recently been \"released\", then go to the location it was left to \"catch\" it. Books may also be left at \"Official BookCrossing Zones\" (OBCZs), which are located in certain coffee shops, cafes, restaurants and other public places. The purpose of these locations is to get current members in the area to leave books to share with the public. This also advertises BookCrossing and creates more members.\n\nThere is a BookCrossing anniversary convention every April, where BookCrossers go to enjoy organized literary-related events and release books together. The location of the convention changes each year: Here is a list of past and forthcoming conventions:\nMany unofficial conventions or \"unconventions\" take place at other locations and times throughout the year, making it easier for BookCrossers who cannot travel internationally for the convention to gather and share their love of books.\n\nIn 2003, BookCrossing was criticized by the astrologer and novelist Jessica Adams, who claimed that books were being \"devalued\" by the website as BookCrossing could lead to lower sales of books and, therefore, the reduction in royalties being paid to authors. Most BookCrossers dispute this argument, however. They claim that the website introduces readers to authors and genres that they have not read before, that the website encourages more people to take up or reclaim reading as a hobby, and that some members, having read a book that they have enjoyed, will buy extra copies to distribute through BookCrossing.\n\nIn March 2005, Caroline Martin, managing director of the publisher Harper Press, said in a speech that \"book publishing as a whole has its very own potential Napster crisis in the growing practice of bookcrossing\". BookCrossers rebutted the link to Napster, saying that while music filesharing involves duplicating audio files countless times, BookCrossing doesn't involve duplicating books (and also does not involve violating copyright, as books can be sold or given away freely without permission of the publisher being needed). The founder of BookCrossing, Ron Hornbaker, originally wondered if people would make this comparison when BookCrossing was first launched.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902937", "title": "Bulla (amulet)", "text": "Bulla (amulet)\n\nBulla, an amulet worn like a locket, was given to male children in Ancient Rome nine days after birth. Rather similar objects are rare finds from Late Bronze Age Ireland.\n\nRoman bullae were enigmatic objects of lead, sometimes covered in gold foil, if the family could afford it. A bulla was worn around the neck as a locket to protect against evil spirits and forces. Bullae were made of differing substances depending upon the wealth of the family.\n\nBefore the age of manhood, Roman boys wore a bulla, a neckchain and round pouch containing protective amulets (usually phallic symbols), and the bulla of an upper-class boy would be made of gold. Other materials included leather and cloth.\n\nA freeborn Roman boy wore a bulla until he came of age as a Roman citizen. Before he put on his \"toga virilis\" (\"toga of manhood\") he placed his boyhood bulla in the care of his parental household deities (Lares.. Some modern sources interpret Macrobius's single reference to an amulet worn by a triumphal general during his procession as evidence that the childhood bulla was also a standard item of triumphal regalia.\n\nA girl child did not wear a bulla per-se, but another kind of amulet, called a lunula, until the eve of her marriage, when it was removed along with her childhood toys and other things. She would then stop wearing child's clothes and start wearing women's Roman Dress.\n\nA small number of bullae have been found in Ireland; they are called “bullae” based on their resemblance to the Roman form. The Irish bullae so-far found were made of base metal – sometimes clay – covered with a folded over piece of gold foil. The Irish bullae date to the Late Bronze Age, between about 1150 BCE–750 BCE.\n\nThey were presumably worn suspended round the neck with a cord running through the hole below the flat top. The body of the bulla has roughly vertical sides before making a semi-circle or inverted pointed arch at the bottom. The gold is incised with geometrical decoration.\n\nWhether they were purely for adornment or had an amuletic or other function is unclear. Despite the small weight of gold used they would have been only available for elite groups.\n"}
{"id": "13435044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13435044", "title": "Calcutta School of Music", "text": "Calcutta School of Music\n\nThe Calcutta School of Music established in 1915 by Phillipe Sandre is one of the premier institutions of India, in the field of Western Classical music and Contemporary classical music. It was established in the year 1915 by Phillipé Sandré, a musician of considerable calibre, and a contemporary and friend of the famous composer Saint Saëns. It has a wide ranging canvas of musical disciplines covering both Indian and Western music, dance, speech training, elocution, and drama. The School is an important element of the city of Kolkata, providing liberal instruction in musical subjects on one hand, and also arranging orchestral, chamber and solo music training and concerts, as well as music appreciation sessions throughout the year. Many visiting luminaries of the musical world have visited the School throughout its existence. this include maestros Yehudi Menuhin, Isaac Stern and Mstislav Rostropovich. The great sitar maestro Pandit Ravi Shankar inaugurated the faculty of Indian Music & Dance during the year 1975. \n\nThe School was originally located at Wellesley Street in Central Calcutta. In the year 1972, the school moved into its own premises at Sunny Park. Its 90th anniversary is being celebrated in 2005-06. The school operates as a non-profit organization, and is managed by the principal under the guidance of the Governing Committee. \nHis Excellency the Governor of West Bengal is a patron of the school\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33032468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33032468", "title": "Casual peeps at Sophia", "text": "Casual peeps at Sophia\n\nCasual peeps at Sophia is a collection of Essays and Addresses by Allama I I Kazi. The subjects dealt within these essays and addresses cover a wide range of topics such as philosophy, religion, history, poetry, art and literary criticism.\n"}
{"id": "305296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305296", "title": "Color grading", "text": "Color grading\n\nColor grading is the process of improving the appearance of an image for presentation in different environments on different devices. Various attributes of an image such as contrast, color, saturation, detail, black level, and white point may be enhanced whether for motion pictures, videos, or still images. Color grading and color correction are often used synonymously as terms for this process and can include the generation of artistic color effects through creative blending and composting of different images. Color grading is generally now performed in a digital process either in a controlled environment such as a color suite, or in any location where a computer can be used in dim lighting. \n\nThe earlier photo-chemical film process, now referred to as color timing, was performed at a photographic laboratory by the use of filters and exposure changes while copying from one film to another.\n\nColor timing is used in reproducing film elements. \"Color grading\" was originally a lab term for the process of changing color appearance in film reproduction when going to the answer print or release print in the film reproduction chain. By the late 2010s, this film grading technique had become known as \"color timing\" and still involved changing the duration of exposure through different filters during the film development process. Color timing is specified in printer points which represent presets in a lab contact printer where 7-12 printer points represent one stop of light. The number of points per stop varied based upon negative or print stock and different presets at Film Labs. \n\nIn a film production, the creative team would meet with the “Lab Timer” who would watch a running film and make notes dependent upon the team's directions. After the session, the Timer would return to the Lab, and put the film negative on a device (the Hazeltine) which had preview filters with a controlled backlight, and pick exact settings of each printer point for each scene. These settings were then punched onto a paper tape and fed to the high-speed printer where the negative was exposed through a backlight to a print stock. Filter settings were changed on the fly to match the printer lights that were on the paper tape. For complex work such as visual effects shots, \"wedges” running through combinations of filters were sometimes processed to aid the choice of the correct grading.\n\nThis process is used wherever Film materials are being reproduced.\n\nWith the advent of television, broadcasters quickly realised the limitations of live television broadcasts and they turned to broadcasting feature films from release prints directly from a telecine. This was before 1956 when Ampex introduced the first Quadruplex videotape recorder (VTR) VRX-1000. Live television shows could also be recorded to film and aired at different times in different time zones by filming a video monitor. The heart of this system was the \"kinescope\", a device for recording a television broadcast to film.\n\nThe early telecine hardware was the \"film chain\" for broadcasting from film and utilized a film projector connected to a video camera. As explained by Jay Holben in \"American Cinematographer Magazine\", \"The telecine didn't truly become a viable post-production tool until it was given the ability to perform colour correction on a video signal.\"\n\nIn a Cathode-ray tube (CRT) system, an electron beam is projected at a phosphor-coated envelope, producing a spot of light the size of a single pixel. This beam is then scanned across a film frame from left to right, capturing the \"vertical\" frame information. Horizontal scanning of the frame is then accomplished as the film moves past the CRT's beam. Once this photon beam passes through the film frame, it encounters a series of dichroic mirrors which separate the image into its primary red, green and blue components. From there, each individual beam is reflected onto a photomultiplier tube (PMT) where the photons are converted into an electronic signal to be recorded to tape.\n\nIn a charge-coupled device (CCD) telecine, a white light is shone through the exposed film image onto a prism, which separates the image into the three primary colors, red, green and blue. Each beam of colored light is then projected at a different CCD, one for each color. The CCD converts the light into an electronic signal, and the telecine electronics modulate these into a video signal that can then be color graded.\n\nEarly color correction on Rank Cintel MkIII CRT telecine systems was accomplished by varying the primary gain voltages on each of the three photomultiplier tubes to vary the output of red, green and blue. Further advancements converted much of the color-processing equipment from analog to digital and then, with the next-generation telecine, the Ursa, the coloring process was completely digital in the 4:2:2 color space. The Ursa Gold brought about color grading in the full 4:4:4 color space.\n\nColor correction control systems started with the Rank Cintel TOPSY (Telecine Operations Programming SYstem) in 1978. In 1984 Da Vinci Systems introduced their first color corrector, a computer-controlled interface that would manipulate the color voltages on the Rank Cintel MkIII systems. Since then, technology has improved to give extraordinary power to the digital colorist. Today there are many companies making color correction control interfaces including Da Vinci Systems, Pandora International, Pogle and more.\n\nSome telecines are still in operation in 2018.\n\nSome of the main artistic functions of color correction (digital color grading):\n\n\nNote that some of these functions must be prioritized over others; for example, color grading may be done to ensure that the recorded colors match those of the original scene, whereas other times, the goal may instead be to establish a very artificial stylized look.\n\nTraditionally, color grading was done towards practical goals. For example, in the film Marianne, grading was used so that night scenes could be filmed more cheaply in daylight. Secondary color correction was originally used to establish color continuity, however the trend today is increasingly moving towards creative goals, such as improving the aesthetics of an image, establishing stylized looks, and setting the mood of a scene through color. Due to this trend, some colorists suggest the phrase \"color enhancement\" over \"color correction\".\n\nPrimary color grading affects the whole image by providing control over the color density curves of red, green, blue color channels, across the entire frame. Secondary correction can isolate a range of hue, saturation and brightness values to bring about alterations in hue, saturation and luminance only in that range, allowing the grading of secondary colors, while having a minimal or usually no effect on the remainder of the color spectrum. Using digital grading, objects and color ranges within a scene can be isolated with precision and adjusted. Color tints can be manipulated and visual treatments pushed to extremes not physically possible with laboratory processing. With these advancements, the color correction process has become increasingly similar to well-established digital painting techniques, ushering forth a new era of digital cinematography.\n\nThe evolution of digital color grading tools has advanced to the point where the colorist can use geometric shapes (such as mattes or masks in photo software such as Adobe Photoshop) to isolate color adjustments to specific areas of an image. These tools can highlight a wall in the background and color only that wall, leaving the rest of the frame alone, or color everything but that wall. Subsequent color correctors (typically software-based) have the ability to use spline-based shapes for even greater control over isolating color adjustments. Color keying is also used for isolating areas to adjust.\n\nInside and outside of area-based isolations, digital filtration can be applied to soften, sharpen or mimic the effects of traditional glass photographic filters in nearly infinite degrees.\n\nWhen trying to isolate a color adjustment on a moving subject, the colorist traditionally would have needed to manually move a mask to follow the subject. In its most simple form, motion tracking software automates this time-consuming process using algorithms to evaluate the motion of a group of pixels. These techniques are generally derived from match moving techniques used in special effects and compositing work.\n\nThe evolution of the telecine device into film scanning allowed the digital information scanned from a film negative to be of sufficient resolution to transfer back to film. In the early 90’s, Kodak developed the Cineon Film System to capture, manipulate, and record back to film and they called this the “Digital Intermediate”. This term stuck. The first Digital Intermediate of any form was the Cinesite restoration of “Snow White and The Seven Dwarves” in 1993. [Previously in 1990 for \"Rescuers Down Under\", the Disney CAPS system had been used to scan artwork, color and composite it, and then record it to film, but this was also intermixed with a traditional lab development process over a length of time]\n\nIn the late 1990s, the films \"Pleasantville\" and \"O Brother, Where Art Thou?\" advanced the technology to the point that the creation of a digital intermediate was practical, which greatly expanded the capabilities of the digital telecine colorist in a traditionally film-oriented world. After 2010, almost all feature films go through the DI process, while manipulation through photochemical processing is rare or used on archival films.\n\nIn Hollywood, \"O Brother, Where Art Thou?\" was the first film to be wholly digitally graded. The negative was scanned with a Spirit DataCine at 2K resolution, then colors were digitally fine-tuned using a Pandora MegaDef color corrector on a Virtual DataCine. The process took several weeks, and the resulting digital master was output to film again with a Kodak laser recorder to create a master internegative.\n\nModern motion picture processing typically uses both digital cameras and digital projectors and calibrated devices are essential to predict whether the appropriate colors are appearing.\n\nIn early use, hardware-based systems (da Vinci 2K, Pandora International MegaDEF, etc.) have historically offered better performance but a smaller feature set than software-based systems. Their real time performance was optimised to particular resolution and bit depths, as opposed to software platforms using standard computer industry hardware that often trade speed for resolution independence, e.g. Apple's Color (previously Silicon Color Final Touch), ASSIMILATE SCRATCH, Adobe SpeedGrade and SGO Mistika. While hardware-based systems always offer real-time performance, some software-based systems need to pre-render as the complexity of the color grading increases. On the other hand, software-based systems tend to have more features such as spline-based windows/masks and advanced motion tracking.\n\nThe line between hardware and software no longer exists as many software-based color correctors (e.g. Pablo , Mistika, SCRATCH, Autodesk Lustre, Nucoda Film Master and Filmlight Baselight) use multi processor workstations and a GPU (graphics processing unit) as a means of hardware acceleration. As well, some newer software-based systems use a cluster of multiple parallel GPUs on the one computer system to improve performance at the very high resolutions required for feature film grading. e.g. Blackmagic Designs' DaVinci Resolve. Some color grading software like Synthetic Aperture's Color Finesse runs solely as software and will even run on low-end computer systems. High-speed RAID arrays are an essential part of the process for all systems.\n\nHardware systems are no longer common because of the excellent price/performance of software systems. The control panels are placed in a color suite for the colorist to operate the telecine remotely.\n\n\nThe controls are both shown on-screen in an application, controlled by a hardware peripheral, or are sometimes accessed as a plugin to a host application.\n\n\nIn 2016, an international professional organization for film colorists; the Colorist Society International was founded at the NAB Show in Las Vegas. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "199162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199162", "title": "Conducting", "text": "Conducting\n\nConducting is the art of directing a musical performance, such as an orchestral or choral concert. It has been defined as \"the art of directing the simultaneous performance of several players or singers by the use of gesture.\" The primary duties of the conductor are to interpret the score created by a composer in a manner which is reflective of the specific indications within that score, set the tempo, ensure correct entries by various members of the ensemble, and to \"shape\" the phrasing where appropriate. To convey their ideas and interpretation, conductors communicate with their musicians primarily through hand gestures, typically though not invariably with the aid of a baton, and may use other gestures or signals, such as eye contact with relevant performers. A conductor's directions will almost invariably be supplemented or reinforced by verbal instructions or suggestions to their musicians in rehearsal prior to a performance.\n\nThe conductor typically stands on a raised podium with a large music stand for the full score, which contains the musical notation for all the instruments or voices. Since the mid-19th century, most conductors have not played an instrument when conducting, although in earlier periods of classical music history, leading an ensemble while playing an instrument was common. In Baroque music from the 1600s to the 1750s, the group would typically be led by the harpsichordist or first violinist (see concertmaster), an approach that in modern times has been revived by several music directors for music from this period. Conducting while playing a piano or synthesizer may also be done with musical theatre pit orchestras. Communication is typically non-verbal during a performance (this is strictly the case in art music, but in jazz big bands or large pop ensembles, there may be occasional spoken instructions, such as a \"count in\"). However, in rehearsals, frequent interruptions allow the conductor to give verbal directions as to how the music should be played or sung.\n\nConductors act as guides to the orchestras or choirs they conduct. They choose the works to be performed and study their scores, to which they may make certain adjustments (e.g., regarding tempo, articulation, phrasing, repetitions of sections, and so on), work out their interpretation, and relay their vision to the performers. They may also attend to organizational matters, such as scheduling rehearsals, planning a concert season, hearing auditions and selecting members, and promoting their ensemble in the media. Orchestras, choirs, concert bands and other sizable musical ensembles such as big bands are usually led by conductors.\n\nThe principal conductor of an orchestra or opera company is sometimes referred to as a \"music director\" or \"chief conductor\", or by the German words \"Kapellmeister\" or \"Dirigent\". Conductors of choirs or choruses are sometimes referred to as \"choral director,\" \"chorus master,\" or \"choirmaster,\" particularly for choirs associated with an orchestra. Conductors of concert bands, military bands, marching bands and other bands may hold the title of \"band director\", \"bandmaster\", or \"drum major\". Respected senior conductors are sometimes referred to by the Italian word, \"maestro\" (\"master\" as in \"one who has mastered the art\").\n\nAn early form of conducting is cheironomy, the use of hand gestures to indicate melodic shape. This has been practiced at least as far back as the Middle Ages. In the Christian church, the person giving these symbols held a staff to signify his role, and it seems that as music became rhythmically more complex, the staff was moved up and down to indicate the beat, acting as an early form of baton.\n\nIn the 17th century, other devices to indicate the passing of time came into use. Rolled up sheets of paper, smaller sticks and unadorned hands are all shown in pictures from this period. The large staff was responsible for the death of Jean-Baptiste Lully, who injured his foot with one while conducting a Te Deum for the King's recovery from illness. The wound became gangrenous and Lully refused amputation, whereupon the gangrene spread to his leg and he died two months later.\n\nIn instrumental music throughout the 18th century, a member of the ensemble usually acted as the conductor. This was sometimes the concertmaster, who could use his bow as a baton, or a lutenist who would move the neck of his instrument in time with the beat. It was common to conduct from the harpsichord in pieces that had a basso continuo part. In opera performances, there were sometimes two conductors – the keyboard player was in charge of the singers, and the principal violinist or leader was in charge of the orchestra.\n\nOn Fri, 30 Sep 1791 in Vienna, Mozart's opera Die Zauberflöte (The Magic Flute) premiered at the Theater auf der Wieden (also known as the “Wiednertheater”), with Mozart himself conducting the orchestra, according to documents and publicity posters from that time.\n\nIn 1798, Joseph Haydn conducted the premiere of Creation with his hands and a baton while \"Kapellmeister\nWeigl [sat] at the fortepiano.\"\n\nBy the early 19th century (ca. 1820), it became the norm to have a dedicated conductor, who did not also play an instrument during the performance. While some orchestras protested the introduction of the conductor, since they were used to having a concertmaster or keyboard player act as leader, eventually the role of a conductor was established. The size of the usual orchestra expanded during this period, and the use of a baton became more common, as it was easier to see than bare hands or rolled-up paper. Among the earliest notable conductors were Louis Spohr, Carl Maria von Weber, Louis-Antoine Jullien and Felix Mendelssohn, all of whom were also composers. Mendelssohn is claimed to have been the first conductor to utilize a wooden baton to keep time, a practice still generally in use in the 2010s. Prominent conductors who did not or do not use a baton include Pierre Boulez, Kurt Masur, James Conlon, Yuri Temirkanov, Leopold Stokowski, Vasily Safonov, Eugene Ormandy (for a period), and Dimitri Mitropoulos.\n\nThe composers Hector Berlioz and Richard Wagner attained greatness as conductors, and they wrote two of the earliest essays dedicated to the subject. Berlioz is considered the first virtuoso conductor. Wagner was largely responsible for shaping the conductor's role as one who imposes his own view of a piece onto the performance rather than one who is just responsible for ensuring entries are made at the right time and that there is a unified beat. Predecessors who focused on conducting include François Habeneck, who founded the Orchestre de la Société des concerts du Conservatoire in 1828, though Berlioz was later to be alarmed at Habeneck's loose standards of rehearsal. Pianist and composer Franz Liszt was also a conductor.\n\nWagner's one-time champion Hans von Bülow (1830–1894) was particularly celebrated as a conductor, although he also maintained his initial career as a pianist, an instrument on which he was regarded as among the greatest performers (he was a prized piano student of Franz Liszt, whose daughter Cosima he married – although she was to abandon him for Wagner. Liszt was a major figure in the history of conducting, who attained remarkable performances).\n\nBülow raised the technical standards of conducting to an unprecedented level through such innovations as separate, detailed rehearsals of different sections of the orchestra (\"sectional rehearsal\"). In his posts as head of (sequentially) the Bavarian State Opera, Meiningen Court Orchestra, and Berlin Philharmonic he brought a level of nuance and subtlety to orchestral performance previously heard only in solo instrumental playing, and in doing so made a profound impression on young artists like Richard Strauss, who at the age of 20 served as his assistant, and Felix Weingartner, who came to disapprove of his interpretations but was deeply impressed by his orchestral standards. Composer Gustav Mahler was also a noted conductor.\n\nThe next generation of conductors brought technical standards to new levels; perhaps most notable was the Hungarian-born Arthur Nikisch (1855–1922), who succeeded Bülow as music director of the Berlin Philharmonic in 1895. He had previously served as head of the Leipzig Opera, Boston Symphony Orchestra, and Leipzig Gewandhaus Orchestra, and was to serve as music director of the London Symphony Orchestra. Nikisch premiered important works by Anton Bruckner and Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky, who greatly admired his work; Johannes Brahms, after hearing him conduct his Fourth Symphony, said it was \"quite exemplary, it's impossible to hear it any better.\"\n\nNikisch took the London Symphony Orchestra on tour through the United States in April 1912, the first American tour by a European orchestra. He also made one of the earliest recordings of a complete symphony: the Beethoven Fifth with the Berlin Philharmonic in November 1913. Nikisch was also the first conductor to have his art captured on film – alas, silently. The film confirms reports that he made particularly mesmerizing use of eye contact and expression to communicate with an orchestra; such later conductors as Fritz Reiner stated that this aspect of his technique had a strong influence on their own.\n\nConductors of the generations after Nikisch often left extensive recorded evidence of their arts. Two particularly influential and widely recorded figures are often treated, somewhat inaccurately, as interpretive antipodes. They were the Italian conductor Arturo Toscanini (1867–1957) and the German conductor Wilhelm Furtwängler (1886–1954). Toscanini played in orchestras under Giuseppe Verdi and made his debut conducting \"Aida\" in 1886, filling in at the last minute for an indisposed conductor. He is to this day regarded by such authorities as James Levine as the greatest of all Verdi conductors. But Toscanini's repertory was wide, and it was in his interpretations of the German symphonists Beethoven and Brahms that he was particularly renowned and influential, favoring stricter and faster tempi than a conductor like Bülow or, before him, Wagner. Still, his style shows more inflection than his reputation may suggest, and he was particularly gifted at revealing detail and getting orchestras to play in a singing manner.\n\nFurtwängler, whom many regard as the greatest interpreter of Wagner (although Toscanini was also admired in this composer) and Bruckner, conducted Beethoven and Brahms with a good deal of inflection of tempo – but generally in a manner that revealed the structure and direction of the music particularly clearly. He was an accomplished composer as well as performer, and a disciple of the theorist Heinrich Schenker, who emphasized concern for underlying long-range harmonic tensions and resolutions in a piece, a strength of Furtwängler's conducting. Along with his interest in the large-scale, Furtwängler also shaped the details of the piece in a particularly compelling and expressive manner.\nThe two men had very different techniques: Toscanini's was Italianate, with a long, large baton and clear beats (often not using his left hand); Furtwängler beat time with less apparent precision, because he wanted a more rounded sound (although it is a myth that his technique was vague; many musicians have attested that he was easy to follow in his own way). In any event, their examples illustrate a larger point about conducting technique in the first half of the 20th century: it was not standardized. Great and influential conductors of the middle 20th century like Leopold Stokowski (1882–1977), Otto Klemperer (1885–1973), Herbert von Karajan (1908–1989) and Leonard Bernstein (1918–1990) – incidentally, the first American conductor to attain greatness and international fame – had widely varied techniques.\n\nKarajan and Bernstein formed another apparent antipode in the 1960s–80s, Karajan as music director of the Berlin Philharmonic (1955–89) and Bernstein as, for part of that period, music director of the New York Philharmonic (1957–69), and later frequent guest conductor in Europe. Karajan's technique was highly controlled, and eventually he conducted with his eyes often closed; Bernstein's technique was demonstrative, with highly expressive facial gestures and hand and body movements. Karajan could conduct for hours without moving his feet, while Bernstein was known at times to leap into the air at a great climax. As the music director of the Berlin Philharmonic, Karajan cultivated warm, blended beauty of tone, which has sometimes been criticized as too uniformly applied; by contrast, in Bernstein's only appearance with the Berlin Philharmonic in 1979 – performing Mahler's Symphony No. 9 – he tried to get the orchestra to produce an \"ugly\" tone in a certain passage in which he believed it suited the expressive meaning of the music (the first horn player refused, and finally agreed to let an understudy play instead of himself).\n\nBoth Karajan and Bernstein made extensive use of advances in media to convey their art, but in tellingly different ways. Bernstein hosted major prime-time national television series to educate and reach out to children and the public at large about classical music; Karajan made a series of films late in his life, but in them, he did not talk. Both made numerous recordings, but their attitudes toward recording differed: Karajan frequently made new studio recordings to take advantage of advances in recording technique, which fascinated him – he played a role in setting the specifications of the compact disc – but Bernstein, in his post-New York days, came to insist on (for the most part) live concert recordings, believing that music-making did not come to life in a studio without an audience.\n\nIn the last third of the 20th century, conducting technique – particularly with the right hand and the baton – became increasingly standardized. Conductors like Willem Mengelberg in Amsterdam until the end of World War II had had extensive rehearsal time to mold orchestras very precisely, and thus could have idiosyncratic techniques; modern conductors, who spend less time with any given orchestra, must get results with much less rehearsal time. A more standardized technique allows communication to be much more rapid. Nonetheless, conductors' techniques still show a great deal of variety, particularly with the use of the left hand, facial and eye expression, and body language.\n\nWomen conductors were almost unheard of in the ranks of leading orchestral conductors through most of the 19th and 20th centuries, but today, artists like , Marin Alsop and Simone Young are to be seen conducting leading orchestras. Alsop was appointed music director of the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra in 2007 – the first woman ever appointed to head a major US orchestra – and also of the Orquestra Sinfônica do Estado de São Paulo in 2012, and Alsop was the first woman to conduct on the last night of The Proms. Young scored similar firsts when she became head of the Hamburg State Opera and Philharmoniker Hamburg in 2005; she is also the first woman conductor to record the Ring Cycle of Richard Wagner. \"The Guardian\" called conducting \"one of the last glass ceilings in the music industry\". A 2013 article stated that in France, out of 574 concerts only 17 were conducted by women and no women conducted at the National Opéra in Paris. \"\"Bachtrack\" reported that, in a list of the world's 150 top conductors that year, only five were women.\"\n\nWhile Mexico has produced several major international conductors, Alondra de la Parra has become the first Mexican-born woman to attain distinction in the profession. Similarly, Asian origin has become unremarkable, because of the international successes of conductors from the Far East such as Seiji Ozawa, who was the Boston Symphony Orchestra's music director from 1973 until 2002 after holding similar posts in San Francisco and Toronto, and Myung-Whun Chung, who has held major posts in Germany and France and now is bringing the Seoul Philharmonic Orchestra to international attention. There is still under-representation of artists of black origin in the conducting profession, but there have been notable exceptions, such as Henry Lewis, Dean Dixon, James DePreist, Paul Freeman, and Michael Morgan. For more information on black conductors, see Black conductors. According to a 2004 article in \"The Guardian\", \"black conductors are rare in the classical music world and even in symphony orchestras it is unusual to see more than one or two black musicians.\"\n\nConducting is a means of communicating artistic directions to performers during a performance. Although there are many formal rules on how to conduct correctly, others are subjective, and a wide variety of different conducting styles exist depending upon the training and sophistication of the conductor. The primary responsibilities of the conductor are to unify performers, set the tempo, execute clear preparations and beats, listen critically and shape the sound of the ensemble, and to control the interpretation and pacing of the music. Communication is non-verbal during a performance, however in rehearsal frequent interruptions allow directions as to how the music should be played. During rehearsals, the conductor may stop the playing of a piece to request changes in the phrasing or request a change in the timbre of a certain section. In amateur orchestras, the rehearsals are often stopped to draw the musicians' attentions to performance errors or transposition mistakes.\n\nConducting requires an understanding of the elements of musical expression (tempo, dynamics, articulation) and the ability to communicate them effectively to an ensemble. The ability to communicate nuances of phrasing and expression through gestures is also beneficial. Conducting gestures are preferably prepared beforehand by the conductor while studying the score, but may sometimes be spontaneous.\n\nA distinction is sometimes made between orchestral conducting and choral conducting. Typically, orchestral conductors use a baton more often than choral conductors. The grip of the baton varies from conductor to conductor.\n\nAt the beginning of a piece of music, the conductor raises his hands (or hand if he only uses a single hand) to indicate that the piece is about to begin. This is a signal for the orchestra members to ready their instruments to be played or for the choristers to be ready and watching. The conductor then looks at the different sections of the orchestra (winds, strings, etc.) or choir to ensure that all the orchestra members are ready to play and choir members are ready. In some choral works, the conductor may signal to a pianist or organist to play a note or chord so that the choir members can determine their starting notes. Then the conductor gives one or more preparatory beats to commence the music. The preparatory beat before the orchestra or choir begins is the upbeat. The beat of the music is typically indicated with the conductor's right hand, with or without a baton. The hand traces a shape in the air in every bar (measure) depending on the time signature, indicating each beat with a change from downward to upward motion. The images show the most common beat patterns, as seen from the conductor's point of view.\n\nThe downbeat indicates the first beat of the bar, and the upbeat indicates the beat before the first note of the piece and the last beat of the bar. The instant at which the beat occurs is called the \"\" (plural: \"\" or \"ictuses\"), and is usually indicated by a sudden (though not necessarily large) click of the wrist or change in baton direction. In some instances, \"ictus\" is also used to refer to a horizontal plane in which all the ictuses are physically located, such as the top of a music stand where a baton is tapped at each ictus. The gesture leading up to the ictus is called the \"preparation\", and the continuous flow of steady beats is called the \"\" (the German word for bar, measure and beat).\n\nIf the tempo is slow or slowing, or if the time signature is compound, a conductor will sometimes indicate \"subdivisions\" of the beats. The conductor can do this by adding a smaller movement in the same direction as the movement for the beat that it belongs to.\n\nChanges to the tempo are indicated by changing the speed of the beat. To carry out and to control a rallentando (slowing down the pace of the music), a conductor may introduce beat subdivisions.\n\nWhile some conductors use both hands to indicate the beat, with the left hand mirroring the right, formal education discourages such an approach. The second hand can be used for cueing the entrances of individual players or sections, and to aid indications of dynamics, phrasing, expression, and other elements.\n\nDuring an instrumental solo section (or, in an opera orchestra during a vocalist's unaccompanied solo), some conductors stop counting out all the subdivisions and simply tap the baton down once per bar, to aid performers who are counting bars of rests.\n\nThere is a difference between the \"textbook\" definition of where the ictus of a downbeat occurs and the actual performance practice in professional orchestras. With an abrupt, loud sforzando chord, a professional orchestra will often play slightly \"after\" the striking of the ictus point of the baton stroke.\n\nDynamics are indicated in various ways. The dynamic may be communicated by the size of the conducting movements, larger shapes representing louder sounds. Changes in dynamic may be signalled with the hand that is not being used to indicate the beat: an upward motion (usually palm-up) indicates a crescendo; a downward motion (usually palm-down) indicates a diminuendo. Changing the size of conducting movements frequently results in changes in the character of the music depending upon the circumstances.\n\nDynamics can be fine-tuned using various gestures: showing one's palm to the performers or leaning away from them may demonstrate a decrease in volume. To adjust the overall balance of the various instruments or voices, these signals can be combined or directed toward a particular section or performer.\n\nThe indication of entries, when a performer or section should begin playing (perhaps after a long period of rests), is called \"cueing\". A cue must forecast with certainty the exact moment of the coming ictus, so that all the players or singers affected by the cue can begin playing simultaneously. Cueing is most important for cases where a performer or section has not been playing for a lengthy time. Cueing is also helpful in the case of a pedal point with string players, when a section has been playing the pedal point for a lengthy period; a cue is important to indicate when they should change to a new note. Cueing is achieved by \"engaging\" the players before their entry (by looking at them) and executing a clear preparation gesture, often directed toward the specific players. An inhalation, which may or may not be a semi-audible \"sniff\" from the conductor, is a common element in the cueing technique of some conductors. Mere eye contact or a look in the general direction of the players may be sufficient in many instances, as when more than one section of the ensemble enters at the same time. Larger musical events may warrant the use of a larger or more emphatic cue designed to encourage emotion and energy.\n\nArticulation may be indicated by the character of the ictus, ranging from short and sharp for staccato, to long and fluid for legato. Many conductors change the tension of the hands: strained muscles and rigid movements may correspond to marcato, while relaxed hands and soft movements may correspond to legato or espressivo. Phrasing may be indicated by wide overhead arcs or by a smooth hand motion either forwards or side-to-side. A held note is often indicated by a hand held flat with palm up. The end of a note, called a \"cutoff\" or \"release\", may be indicated by a circular motion, the closing of the palm, or the pinching of finger and thumb. A release is usually preceded by a preparation and concluded with a complete stillness.\n\nConductors aim to maintain eye contact with the ensemble as much as possible, encouraging eye contact in return and increasing the dialogue between players/singers and conductor. Facial expressions may also be important to demonstrate the character of the music or to encourage the players.\n\nIn some cases, such as where there has been little rehearsal time to prepare a piece, a conductor may discreetly indicate how the bars of music will be beat immediately before the start of the movement by holding up their fingers in front of their chest (so only the performers can see). For example, in a piece that the conductor will beat \"in two\" (two ictus points or beats per bar, as if it were ), the conductor would hold up two fingers in front of his chest.\n\nIn most cases, there is a short pause between movements of a symphony, concerto or dance suite. This brief pause gives orchestra or choir members time to turn the pages of their part and ready themselves for the start of the next movement. String players may apply rosin or wipe sweat off their hands with a handkerchief. Reed players may take this time to change to a new reed. In some cases, woodwind or brass players will use the pause to switch to a different instrument (e.g., from trumpet to cornet or from clarinet to E clarinet). If the conductor wishes to immediately begin one movement after another for musical reasons, this is called attacca. The conductor will instruct the orchestra members and choristers to write the term in their parts, so that they will be ready to go immediately to the next movement.\n\nThe roles of a conductor vary a great deal between different conducting positions and different ensembles. In some cases, a conductor will also be the musical director of the symphony, choosing the program for the entire season, including concerts by guest conductors, concerto soloists, pop concerts, and so on. A senior conductor may attend some or all of the auditions for new members of the orchestra, to ensure that the candidates have the playing style and tone that the conductor prefers and that candidates meet the highest performance standards. Some choral conductors are hired to prepare a choir for several weeks which will subsequently be directed by another conductor. The choral conductor is usually acknowledged for their preparatory work in the concert program.\n\nSome conductors may have a significant public relations role, giving interviews to the local news channel and appearing on television talk shows to promote the upcoming season or particular concerts. On the other hand, a conductor hired to guest conduct a single concert may only have the responsibility of rehearsing the orchestra for several pieces and conducting one or two concerts. While a handful of conductors have become well-known celebrities, such as Leonard Bernstein, most are only known within the classical music scene.\n\nClassical choral and instrumental conducting have established comprehensive systems of instruction and training. Aspiring conductors can study at colleges, conservatories, and universities. Conservatories, which are the standard musical training system in France and in Quebec (Canada) provide lessons and amateur conducting experience. Universities offer a range of conducting programs, including courses in conducting as part of bachelor's degrees, a small number of Master of Music degrees in conducting, and an even smaller number of Doctor of Musical Arts degrees in conducting.\n\nIn addition, there are a variety of other training programs such as classical summer camps and training festivals, which give students the opportunity to conduct a wide range of music. Aspiring conductors need to obtain a broad education about the history of music, including the major periods of classical music and regarding music theory. Many conductors learn to play a keyboard instrument such as the piano or the pipe organ, a skill that helps them to be able to analyze symphonies and try out their interpretations before they have access to an orchestra to conduct. Many conductors get experience playing in an orchestra or singing in a choir, an experience which gives them good insights into how orchestras and choirs are conducted and rehearsed.\n\nIn 2014, orchestra conductors typically hold a master's degree in music and choir conductors in the US typically hold a bachelor's degree in music. Bachelor's degrees (referred to as B.Mus. or B.M) are four-year programs that include conducting lessons, amateur orchestra experience, and a sequence of courses in music history, music theory, and liberal arts courses (e.g., English literature), which give the student a more well-rounded education. Students do not usually specialize in conducting at the B.Mus. stage; instead, they usually develop general music skills such as singing, playing an orchestral instrument, performing in a choir, playing in orchestra, and playing a keyboard instrument such as the piano or the organ.\n\nAnother topic that conducting students study is the languages used in Classical music opera. Orchestral conductors are expected to be able to rehearse and lead choirs in works for orchestra and choir. As such, orchestral conductors need to know the major languages used in choral writing (including French, Italian and Latin, among others) and they must understand the correct diction of these languages in a choral singing context. The opposite is also true: a choral conductor will be expected to rehearse and lead a string orchestra or full orchestra when performing works for choir and orchestra. As such, a choral conductor needs to know how to rehearse and lead instrument sections.\n\nMaster of music degrees (M.mus.) in conducting consist of private conducting lessons, ensemble experience, coaching, and graduate courses in music history and music theory, along with one or two conducted concerts. A Master's degree in music (referred to as an M.Mus. or M.M.) is often the required minimum credential for people who wish to become a professor of conducting.\n\nDoctor of Musical Arts (referred to as D.M.A., DMA, D.Mus.A. or A.Mus.D) degrees in conducting provide an opportunity for advanced study at the highest artistic and pedagogical level, requiring usually an additional 54+ credit hours beyond a master's degree (which is about 30+ credits beyond a bachelor's degree). For this reason, admission is highly selective. Examinations in music history, music theory, ear training/dictation, and an entrance examination and conducting audition are required. Students perform a number of conducted concerts, including a combination lecture-conducted concert with an accompanying doctoral dissertation, advanced coursework. Students must typically maintain a minimum B average. A DMA in conducting is a terminal degree, and as such, it qualifies the holder to teach in colleges, universities and conservatories. In addition to academic study, another part of the training pathway for many conductors is conducting amateur orchestras, such as youth orchestras, school orchestras and community orchestras.\n\nA small number of conductors become professionals without formal training in conducting. These individuals often have achieved renown as instrumental or vocal performers, and they have often undertaken a great deal of training in their area of expertise (instrumental performance or singing). Another way that a small number of conductors become professionals without formal training in conducting is by learning on the job by conducting amateur orchestras, school orchestras, and community orchestras (or the equivalent choral ensembles).\n\nThe average salary of conductors in the US in 2014 was $48,180. A 3% growth rate is forecast for conducting jobs from 2014 to 2024, a slower than average growth rate.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40123985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40123985", "title": "Creative and Media Studio School", "text": "Creative and Media Studio School\n\nThe Creative & Media Studio School is a studio school located at the Netherhall Learning Campus in Huddersfield, in the English county of West Yorkshire, England.\n\nThe school was established in 2010. The school was initially housed in the premises of the other schools in the Netherhall Federation, however a dedicated building has been completed and was officially opened on 15 November 2013.\n\nSchool specialisms include Drama, Music, Textiles, Graphics, Fashion, Media and Business, with qualifications at GCSE, BTEC or A Level.\n\n"}
{"id": "7765621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7765621", "title": "Crisis at Central High", "text": "Crisis at Central High\n\nCrisis at Central High is a 1981 made-for-television movie about the Little Rock Integration Crisis of 1957, based on a draft of the memoir by the same name by former assistant principal Elizabeth Huckaby. \n\nWilliam Link and Richard Levinson wrote the screenplay and were executive producers together with David Susskind of Time-Life Productions. The film starred Joanne Woodward as Huckaby and told the events from that character's point of view, although one obituary at the time of Huckaby's death cited her as saying the TV-movie enlarged her role. Woodward was nominated for an Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Limited Series or a Special and a Golden Globe Award for Best Performance by an Actress in a Mini-Series or Motion Picture Made for TV, in 1981 and 1982 respectively.\n\nReviewer John O'Connor of \"The New York Times\" observed, \"In the end, of course, the real heroes of this piece are the nine black students,\" whom O'Connor described as \"played to quiet perfection.\" Actors highlighted for their portrayals included Calvin Levels as Ernest Green (the only senior in the group) and Regina Taylor as Minnijean Brown, launching that actress' professional career. Other principal actors in the film included Charles Durning as the principal and Henderson Forsythe as Huckaby's husband, Glenn. \n\nLike many docudramas, \"Crisis\" included some composite characters; at least one reviewer (O'Connor) criticizes the vague disclaimer to that effect, arguing that in a piece about such controversial events, alterations to the truth should be identified more specifically. In addition to the creative license already mentioned with regard to her role in the crisis, Huckaby was reported to have said the film showed some events are out of sequence and slightly altered others.\n\nThe movie was filmed on location in Little Rock and at Woodrow Wilson High School in Dallas, Texas. Many local Dallas actors had featured roles in the film, including radio personality Suzie Humphreys, TV and theater actor Jerry Haynes, teacher and actress Irma P. Hall, and Theater Three director Norma Young, as well as Taylor, a native Dallasite who was attending Southern Methodist University at the time the film was being cast.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5106599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5106599", "title": "ENnies", "text": "ENnies\n\nThe Annual Gen Con EN World RPG Awards (or ENnie Awards) are annual, fan-based awards for role-playing game products and publishers hosted at Gen Con in Indianapolis, Indiana. The name of the award is derived from the EN World web site that has hosted the awards since their inception in 2001. The ENnies were created by Russ Morrissey and Eric Noah and have been run and owned by Russ Morrissey since 2001.\n\nThe awards were initially focused on \"d20 System\" products and publishers and were a solely internet-based event (hosted by EN World). They have since broadened their scope to include all forms of roleplaying, and since 2002 have been announced at a live awards ceremony at Gen Con.\nIn 2007, the ENnies were sponsored for the first time by a corporation, Your Games Now. In 2008 they were sponsored by Avatar Art. In 2010, 2011, and 2012 they were sponsored by both Indie Press Revolution and DriveThruRPG. From 2013-2016 they were sponsored by DriveThruRPG. In 2015, Campaign Coins made the medals as a sponsorship. In 2017, Lone Wolf Development became a sponsor.\n\nThe ENnies comprise two rounds. In the first round, publishers submit their products for nomination by that year's five democratically elected judges. As of 2017, judges have had a two-year term limit, but are permitted to return after a year off. In the second round, the public votes on the nominated products, with the results being presented live at Gen Con.\n\nThe 2017 Categories were as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3455599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3455599", "title": "Elizabeth Gray (broadcaster)", "text": "Elizabeth Gray (broadcaster)\n\nElizabeth Gray is a Canadian radio broadcaster, who has been a host and documentary producer for CBC Radio.\n\nPreviously a researcher on \"Cross-Country Checkup\" and a substitute host on \"This Country in the Morning\" and \"Morningside\", Gray took over from Barbara Frum as cohost of \"As It Happens\" in 1981.\n\nIn a controversial decision by the show's producers, she was replaced by Dennis Trudeau in 1985. She subsequently hosted \"Sunday Morning\" for several years, and produced documentary reports for the network. More recently, with different producers in charge of \"As It Happens\", Gray has returned to the program as an occasional guest host.\n\nShe is married to journalist John Gray.\n"}
{"id": "39152840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39152840", "title": "Erased de Kooning Drawing", "text": "Erased de Kooning Drawing\n\nErased de Kooning Drawing is an early work of US artist Robert Rauschenberg: an almost blank piece of paper in a simple gilded frame. The work was created in 1953 by Rauschenberg erasing a drawing he obtained from Dutch artist Willem de Kooning. Rauschenberg asked his friend Jasper Johns to add a written caption to the frame, which reads: \"Erased de Kooning Drawing, Robert Rauschenberg, 1953”. It is considered a Neo-Dadaist conceptual artwork, with similarities affinities to Added Art, although with material removed from the original work rather than added. It has been held by the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art since 1998, which describes the work as a \"drawing [with] traces of drawing media on paper with label and gilded frame\".\n\nThe work is a development from Rauschenberg's early monochrome white paintings that he first created in summer 1951. After creating a series of completely blank white paintings, Rauschenberg set out to discover whether an artwork could be produced entirely through erasure. He started with erasing his own drawings, but felt that the result was not sufficiently creative, so he decided to seek a drawing from another more established artist - clearly already a work of art - that he could erase. He approached de Kooning, an artist he admired, to ask for a drawing that he could erase to create a new work of art. After some persuasion, de Kooning gave Rauschenberg a densely worked drawing in crayon, ink, pencil and charcoal, deliberately steering away from works that he did not like, or simple pencil drawings that would be too easy for Rauschenberg to erase. It took Rauschenberg approximately two months to obliterate as much of de Kooning drawing as he could, using a variety of different erasers. The plain gilded frame and inscription by Jasper Johns are important parts of the work: without them, a viewer would struggle to interpret the work.\n\nNo photographs exist of the de Kooning work before its erasure, but digital photographs made by the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art in 2010 enhanced the remaining traces of the underlying drawing, although some may have been erased by de Kooning as part of the initial creation of the work before he gave it to Rauschenberg. De Kooning's original drawing appears to be studio sketch, with several figures facing in different directions, including at least one female, probably made with pencil and charcoal.\n\nThe work, including its frame, measures . It was not exhibited in public until 1963, but Rauschenberg would show it to visitors to his studio, and it became well known. Some considered the destruction of a de Kooning drawing to be an act of vandalism; others recognised the concept of Rauschenberg's new work. It was bought by the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art in 1998 using a gift from Phyllis Wattis.\n\n"}
{"id": "46457684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46457684", "title": "Experimental Television Center", "text": "Experimental Television Center\n\nThe Experimental Television Center (ETC) (1969-2011) was a nonprofit Electronic and Media Art center located in upstate New York.\n\nThe Experimental Television Center (ETC) was founded in 1971 by Ralph Hocking. The center was the result of the expansion of a media access program that Ralph Hocking established as Professor of video and computer art at Binghamton University in 1969. Some years later, in July 1979, the center was moved from Binghamton to Owego, New York.\n\nThe ETC, directed by Ralph Hocking and Sherry Miller Hocking, was devoted to the exploration and development of potential uses of new technology in video and media art. Artists, social, cultural and educational organizations and also interested individuals worked in innovative image processing tools, using all the equipment and the studio facilities with no charge. The Center for more than 40 years had provided a residency program that emphasized the aesthetic experimentation of electronic and media art though new technologies. Artists from around the world and students were trained and worked with rare and unique analog and digital devices for creating video artworks and had access to the media art library of the center. For Ralph Hocking, the center was \"a learning place [...], where artists and engineers worked in tandem\". In addition, the center organized exhibitions, workshops, cultural events, conferences and provided grand programs to support artists and non-profit media art programs.\n\nIn 2011, the Residency and Grants Program of the center was closed. The center’s media arts collection has since been archived and housed at the Rose Goldsen Archive of New Media Art through Cornell University Library’s Division of Rare and Manuscript Collections. The center, through the Video History Project, an ongoing research initiative, offers to the public a wealth of often unpublished documents related to the early historical development of video art and community television, with a particular focus on upstate New York during the period 1968-1980. Since the closing of ETC’s art residency program in 2011, Signal Culture -a new nonprofit media arts organization located in the same small village of Owego- aims to support the creation of experimental media.\n\nSome of the artists that have been active in the Experimental Television Center are the following: \nOne of the early projects at the center (1972), a research program aiming to develop a more flexible set of imaging tools for artists, involved the construction of the \"Paik/Abe video synthesizer\". This video synthesizer was designed by Shuya Abe and Nam June Paik and built at the center by David Jones and Robert Diamond, for the TV Lab at WNET-TV. The project was funded by the New York State Council on the Arts.\n\nIn the early of 1970s, the center was the home to many innovative tools that artists in residency took advantage of to make complex and technologically progressive artworks. The \"Abe colorizer\" for example, \"an image processing device, was the precursor of many of special effects that nowadays are taken for granted\", as Bill T. Jones pointed out. In addition, the \"Rutt/Etra scan processor\" was part of the ETC studio and invented by Steve Rutt and Bill Etra in the early 1970s. Gary Hill, artist-in-residence at the Experimental Television Center from 1975 to 1977, explained that this scan processor \"allowed one to manipulate the video image, providing an enormous amount of flexibility in altering a video input or in generating new images by using other inputs like waveforms\".\n\nIn 1973, the center started a long-term collaboration with the artist and engineer Dave Jones, who was repairing, modifying and building video equipment for the center. After becoming the ETC’s full-time technician, Jones designed a series of tools for video image processing to be used at the Center by a number of video artists. Some of the tools available in the ETC studio included the \"Jones colorizer\" (1974, 1975), the \"Jones 8-input sequencer\" (1984, 1985), the \"Jones keyer\" (1985), the \"Jones buffer\" (1986), the \"Voltage control\", and the \"Raster manipulation unit–wobbulator\".\n\nIn mid- 1970s, the center started to research the interface of an \"LSI-11 computer\" with a video processing system with the collaboration of Steina and Woody Vasulka and the support of National Endowment for the Arts (NEA). Its purpose was to make a digital imaging system more user-friendly to the artists. In the late of 1970s and the beginning of 1980s, the ETC’s research programs shifted from the hardware building to artist-oriented software development and to completing new and old tools and systems.\n\nFrom the beginning of the 1980s, the center’s interest transitioned to the new \"Amiga computer\". Subsequently, in the 1990s, the available image processing system was enriched by commercially available tools. According to Ralph and Sherry Miller Hocking, the image processing system became through the years “a hybrid tool set, permitting the artist to create interactive relationships between older historically analog instruments and new digital technologies”. In addition, at the beginning of the 1990s, using a computerized relational database, the center started to catalog the antique equipment, all the video and audio tapes and also the printed material.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13374440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13374440", "title": "Ferne Jacobs", "text": "Ferne Jacobs\n\nFerne Jacobs, who is also known as Ferne K. Jacobs and Ferne Kent Jacobs is an American fiber artist and basket maker. She was born in Chicago, Illinois in 1942 to Jewish parents who emigrated from Eastern Europe. Her family moved to Los Angeles when Ferne was young. She took art and craft classes at the Art Center College of Design (Pasadena, California), the Pratt Institute (New York City), San Diego State University (San Diego, California), Claremont Graduate University (Claremont, California), and Haystack Mountain School of Crafts (Deer Isle, Maine). She credits Dominic di Mare, Lenore Tawney and Arline M. Fisch as her inspirations. Jacobs lives in Los Angeles, California.\n\nJacobs is best known for her contemporary baskets that employ an ancient technique of twisting one thread around another. The Honolulu Museum of Art Spalding House (formerly The Contemporary Museum, Honolulu), the Mint Museum of Art (Charlotte, North Carolina) and the Smithsonian American Art Museum are among the public collections holding works by Ferne Jacobs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53321980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53321980", "title": "Filipino American theater", "text": "Filipino American theater\n\nFilipino American Theater ranges from topics such as Filipino/Filipino-American history to modern Filipino issues. The themes for these works were mostly influenced by the Spanish colonial rule as well as the American colonization. \n\nPhilippine theater is composed of pre-colonial performance traditions as well as colonial influences from Spain and the USA. \n\nSome common subject matter tackled by Filipino theater focuses on the historical background of the Philippines and the relationship between the Philippines and the United States. Some Filipino American productions provides personal, societal and cultural perspective from the past to now. \n\nSome themes for Filipino-American theatrical works are focused on the historical background of the country such as the Filipino-American War, Martial Law and the dawn of Filipino independence. \n\nThe earliest form of theatrical work started with indigenous theater which mainly performs “rituals”. Although these rituals may seem purely cultural, there is also a huge religious influence over these rituals and to this day they are still practiced by specific groups. Other than tribal rituals there are also tribal dances that are practiced depict significant tribal activities within the community.\n\nDuring the Spanish colonial rule within 1565 to 1898, Filipinos never failed to find a way to cope with this regime. During the colonization of Spain, Christianity heavily influenced the lives of Filipinos which lead to religious pieces and performances throughout the country. One form influenced by Spain is called \"komedya\" which varies between two themes: the secular and the religious. For example, a play called \"Tibag\" which talks about the search of Elena and Constantino for the Cross of Christ is still performed in some towns. Another religious form is the \"sinakulo\" or commonly called the passion of Christ which is usually performed during the Lenten season.\n\nBetween 1878 or 1879 another form of performance called \"sarsuwela\" was introduced to Filipinos. The main theme of \"sarsuwela\" revolves around the love story between different social classes which made the dramatization more interesting. \"Dalagang Bukid\" (\"1919)\", was the most popular piece of \"sarswela\" within the culture.\n\nDuring the 19th century, Spain introduced \"drama\" which is a play that is usually done within one act. \"Drama\" mainly focuses on the contemporary lives of Filipinos. \"Drama\" had three subgroups which included: (1) melodrama which aimed to make people cry, (2) comedy which aimed for people to laugh and (3) drama simboliko which taught the audience some symbolism within the storyline.\n\nFrom 1901 to 1946, the American colonial regime affected Filipino theater. On November 4, 1901 the Sedition Act was enacted in the Philippines. With this law it was prohibited for any type of media or speech to go against the United States. \n\nDuring the 1930s Filipinos were exposed to western theater and western classics. During this time, Filipinos adapted to American culture and to American theatrical standards. One influence from the occupation is the development of the performance form called \"bodabil\" which is the vernacular equivalent of \"vaudeville.\" Bodabil is more of a mixture of songs and other type of performances that were popular in the United States. \n\nOne Filipinos American theater company is Ma-Yi Theater Company, started in 1989. In 1991 the National Asian American Theater Co., Inc (NAATCO) was founded and is also a company that involves Filipino American plays and Filipino American casts. Another organization that organizes Filipino playwrights is Sining Bayan.\n\nSining Bayan has staged the play \"Isuda Ti Muna/They Who Were First\" in 1973. It mainly encircles the lives of Filipino agricultural workers in central California. The following year \"Mindanao\" (1974) came out in which talks about the land rights if Filipino Muslims and farmers in Mindanao. In 1976 a play called \"Tagatupad\" came out with a focus on the struggles of antieviction laws within the working class Filipino community. One of the most controversial plays within this time called \"The Frame Up of Narciso and Perez (1979)\" basically focuses on the murder of Narciso and Perez’ patients at a Veterans Administration Hospital. Within the same year, \"Visions of a War bride (1979)\" focused on a Filipina that came to the United States as a war bride. Years later \"Ti Mangyuna (1981)\" led by a collaboration between the KDP and ILWU Local 142 of Hawaii headlined throughout the community. With its goal to educate the audience about labor-union drive’s. \n\nIn 1990 \"Dogeaters\" by Jessica Hagedorn was published which works well as a playwright. \"Dogeaters\" talks about political and cultural issues within that time.\n\nWhen the first group of Filipinos joined the theater community they also received a lot of backlash. One of the most common instances are racial issues. One of the most popular plays that had a lot of Filipino actors, \"Miss Saigon,\" had the issue of casting a white actor for an Asian role (113). With this, it exposed the history of yellow face within the theater community. \n\nAnother issue that was faced due to \"Miss Saigon\" was when it had its own production in the Philippines. J.V Ejercito, the owner of the production of \"Miss Saigon\", became a member of the Philippine congress. J.V Ejercito’s background stirred up controversies since his father Joseph Estrada was still in power when the production was going on. The public implied that the production gained it money not through profit but through politics and free enterprise. During the production of \"Miss Saigon\", the international work force for Filipinos was also rising. Filipinos were seen as Little Brown Fucking Machines (LBFM) my military men thus giving Filipinos the roles of prostitutes within plays. Because of \"Miss Saigon\", Filipinos were then seen as maids and domestic helpers.\n\nPilipino Cultural Night (PCN) is an event mostly organized by students in which they express cultural aspects through theatrical mediums. It was established in 1972 to celebrate the Filipino American community at California State University. California State University had their first PCN with the theme: “Anyong Pilipino: Portrait of the Pilipino”. Around the 1980s, PCN incorporated folklore dance to theatrical narratives. In the University of Hawai’i, the Fil-Am club sponsored an event called Gabi ng Pilipino (Filipino Night). It featured popular dance and musical presentations from late 1970’s to mid-1980’s.\n"}
{"id": "459297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=459297", "title": "Flag and coat of arms of the Pitcairn Islands", "text": "Flag and coat of arms of the Pitcairn Islands\n\nThe coat of arms of the Pitcairn Islands was granted by royal warrant dated November 4, 1969. The flag of the Pitcairn Islands was adopted on April 2, 1984. The design was suggested by the Pitcairn Island Council in December 1980 and approved by Queen Elizabeth II in April 1984. The flag was flown on Pitcairn for the first time in May 1984, during a visit by the then Governor, Sir Richard Stratton (1980—84).\n\nThe coat of arms of the Pitcairn Islands features a shield depicting the anchor and Bible from HMS \"Bounty\". This represents the ancestral history of the islanders, most of whom are descended from the sailors who mutinied on the \"Bounty\" in 1789. The design of the shield is green and blue representing the island rising from the ocean. The helmet and crest are a flowering slip of miro and a Pitcairn Island wheelbarrow.\n\nThe flag of the Pitcairn Islands is a Blue Ensign with the Union Flag in the canton and the coat of arms of the Pitcairn Islands in the fly.\n\nThe Governor of the Pitcairn Islands maintains a separate flag. This flag of the Governor consists of the Union Flag defaced with the coat of arms.\n\n"}
{"id": "15304084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15304084", "title": "Fractio Panis", "text": "Fractio Panis\n\nFractio Panis (English: \"Breaking of Bread\") is the name given to a fresco in the Greek Chapel (\"Capella Greca\") in the Catacomb of Priscilla, situated on the Via Salaria Nova in Rome. The fresco depicts seven persons at a table, six men and a woman. Like the whole of the decorations of the chapel, the fresco dates from the first half of the 2nd century. The painting is found upon the face of the arch immediately over the altar tomb, upon which the sacrament of the Eucharist was performed.\n\nBy chance this particular fresco, having been covered by a thick crust of stalactites, escaped the notice of the early explorers of the catacombs. In 1893, Jesuit art historian Joseph Wilpert, one of a band of young scholars who looked upon De Rossi as their master, arrived at the conclusion that the roof and arches of this chapel were decorated with frescoes. Chemical reagents were used to remove the crust which covered the surface, and by the patient care of Wilpert this delicate operation was attended with complete success. De Rossi described it as \"the pearl of Catacomb discoveries\". Wilpert published a monograph in 1895 giving a full account of this discovery under the title \"Fractio Panis, die alteste Darstellung der eucharistischen Opfers\" (Freiburg in Breisgau). This was translated into French the next year. It contains a collection of very carefully executed photogravures of the frescoes in the \"Capella Greca\".\n\nThe scene represented is a picture of seven persons at a table, six men and a woman. It seems clear that six of these are reclining as the ancients reclined at their meals. But the seventh personage, a bearded and impressive figure, sits somewhat apart at the extremity of the table. His head is thrown back, he has a small loaf or cake in his hands, and his arms stretched out in front of him show that he is breaking it. Upon the table immediately before him is a two-handled cup. Further along the table there are two large plates, one containing two fishes, the other five loaves. At each extremity of the picture upon either side we notice baskets filled with loaves—four baskets at one end, three at the other.\n\nThe phrase \"fractio panis\" (Greek: \"klasis tou artou\") and its variants is not found in pagan literature but recurs frequently in early Christian literature, indicating particular Christian usage; not only is the \"blessing and breaking\" of the bread mentioned in each of the four accounts of the Last Supper, but repeatedly also in the other Apostolic writings. For example, in 1 Corinthians, 10:16, \"The cup of benediction, which we bless, is it not the communion of the blood of Christ? And the bread, which we break, is it not the partaking of the body of the Lord?\" So again in Acts, 2:42, \"And they were persevering in the doctrine of the apostles and in the communication of the breaking of bread, and in prayers\" (cf. Acts, 2:46). And particularly Acts, 2:7, \"And on the first day of the week, when we were assembled to break bread\", where this practice is closely associated with the observance of Sunday. (Cf. also the disciples at Emmaus on Easter Day--Luke 24:30-35, and Acts, 27:35). \n\nSimilar prominence is given to this conception in other sub-Apostolic writings, notably in the Didache or \"Teaching of the Apostles\" (xiv, I), where it is associated with the observance of the Sunday as well as with the explicit mention of Sacrifice and with confession. \"And on the Lord's day come together and break bread and give thanks, having first confessed your transgressions, that your sacrifice may be pure.\" Further, in ch. xi of the same early treatise the consecrated Host is clearly designated by the term \"klasma\", i.e. \"broken bread\". It seems natural than that, in the earliest form of the liturgy, the breaking of the bread should have been regarded as the climax of the ritual employed. This Eucharistic significance of the picture is borne out by all the accessories. The loaves and the fishes upon the table point directly to the Feeding the multitude twice performed by Jesus Christ. The association of this miracle with the Eucharist is familiar, not only in other archaeological monuments, but also in early Christian literature. \n\nRegarding the symbolic significance of the fish and the anagram ichthys, both the Inscription of Abercius of the close of the 2nd century and that of Autun a little later, as well as the large number of allusions in early Christian literature, make it clear that Christ was indicated by this symbol. Moreover, the Abercius inscription clearly conveys that this \"great fish\" was to be the permanent food of the soul. We may also note that the one female fixture among the guests depicted in the \"Fractio Panis\" fresco is veiled, which is not the case with the female figures represented in those other banqueting scenes found in the catacombs and usually interpreted as symbolic of the joys of heaven. \n\nThe fresco is neither entirely realistic or entirely symbolical. That the president (\"proestos\") of the Synaxis (assembly) should break the bread seated, is probably not to be understood as implying that the bishops in the early Church were in fact seated when they offered the liturgy any more than the attitude of the guests implies that the early Christians reclined on couches when they assisted at Eucharist. On the other hand, the action of the breaking of the bread is clearly realistic. A further indication of the Eucharistic significance of the fresco is afforded by the fact that in the fresco next to it in the same chamber is depicted the Binding of Isaac. On the other side is a representation of Daniel in the lions' den, to which Wilpert also attaches a Eucharistic significance on account of the supernatural feeding of Daniel through the intervention of the prophet Habakkuk (Daniel, 14:36).\n\nSome art historians, for instance Dorothy Irvin, have viewed the fresco as archaeological evidence that women presided over the Eucharist in the early Church.\n"}
{"id": "44288491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44288491", "title": "Garbage Patch State", "text": "Garbage Patch State\n\nThe Garbage Patch State – Wasteland is an ongoing transmedia, environmental artwork by Maria Cristina Finucci. The project aims to raise awareness about the environmental hazard of the Great Pacific garbage patch caused by the dispersion of plastic debris in the oceans. Installations, performances, videos have been carried out under the patronage of UNESCO and the Italian Ministry of the Environment.\n\n\nOn April 11th, 2013, in the \"Salle des pas perdus\" of the UNESCO headquarters in Paris, the first presentation of The Garbage Patch State took place with the display of a large scale installation and performance artwork. Hundreds of transparent plastic bags, each filled with water and a multitude of brightly colored plastic caps. These bags were meant to be small reproductions of the “islands” present in The Garbage Patch.\n\nThe bags were arranged in front of a mirror approximately 30m (99f) long, it looked as if there were twice as many as there were in reality. On the back wall, opposite to the mirrors, there was a large image representing distant clouds made of large pixels.\n\nViewers who were present at this exhibition not only felt as if they were standing in front of the Garbage Patch State, but could also see their own reflection in the mirror, becoming themselves protagonists in the piece.\n\nIn the presence of UNESCO's Director-General Irina Bokova, of the Permanent Representative and Ambassador of Italy before UNESCO Maurizio Serra, and of UNESCO’s Director for Culture Francesco Bandarin, as well as the public, Cristina Finucci pronounced a speech for the inauguration of the Garbage Patch State.\n\nCollaborators of this project have been academic institutions such as Ca' Foscari University of Venice, the universities La Sapienza and Roma Tre in Rome, Università Roma Tre, and the European Institute of Design in Madrid. The project’s main partners were ENI for the installations in Paris, Rome, and Venice and ENDESA for the installation in Madrid.\n\n"}
{"id": "7570666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7570666", "title": "Haystacks (Monet series)", "text": "Haystacks (Monet series)\n\nHaystacks is the common English title for a series of impressionist paintings by Claude Monet. The principal subject of each painting in the series is stacks of harvested wheat (or possibly barley or oats: the original French title, Les Meules à Giverny, simply means The Stacks at Giverny). The title refers primarily to a twenty-five canvas series (Wildenstein Index Numbers 1266-1290) which Monet began near the end of the summer of 1890 and continued through the following spring though Monet also produced earlier paintings using this same stack subject.\n\nThe series is famous for the way in which Monet repeated the same subject to show the differing light and atmosphere at different times of day, across the seasons and in many types of weather.\n\nThe series is among Monet's most notable work. The largest \"Haystacks\" collections are held at the Musée d'Orsay and Musée Marmottan Monet in Paris, and in the Art Institute of Chicago. Other collections include the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, the Metropolitan Museum and Museum of Modern Art in New York, the National Museum of Western Art in Tokyo, and Paris' Musée de l'Orangerie. The Art Institute of Chicago collection includes six of the twenty-five \"Haystacks\". \n\nOther museums that hold parts of this series include the Getty Center in Los Angeles, the Hill-Stead Museum in Farmington, Connecticut (which also has one of five from the earlier 1888-89 harvest), the National Gallery of Scotland, the Minneapolis Institute of Arts, Kunsthaus Zürich, and the Shelburne Museum, Vermont. Private collections hold the remaining \"Haystacks\" paintings.\n\nMonet settled in Giverny in 1883. Most of his paintings from 1883 until his death 40 years later were of scenes within of his home. Monet was intensely aware of and fascinated by the visual nuances of the region’s landscape and by the endless variations in the days and in the seasons - the stacks were just outside his door.\n\nMonet had previously painted a single subject in different light and different moods. However, as he matured as a painter, his depictions of atmospheric influences were increasingly concerned not only with specific effects but with the overall color harmonies that allowed him an autonomous use of rich color. The conventional wisdom was that the stacks were a simple subject but also an unimaginative one. However, contemporary writers and friends of the artist noted that Monet's subject matter was always carefully chosen, the product of careful thought and analysis. Monet undertook to capture the stacks in direct light and then to re-examine them from the same view-point in different, often more muted, light and atmospheric conditions. It was then not unusual for Monet, in search of harmonious transitions within the series, to alter the canvases back in his studio.\n\nThe stacks depicted in the series are commonly referred to in English as hay, wheat or grain-stacks. In reality they stored sheafs of grain primarily for bread - so wheat [or possibly barley or oats] - and not hay, an animal food. The stacks were a way of keeping the sheafs dry until the grain could be separated from the stalks by threshing. The local method of storing and drying unthreshed-grains was to use wheat-straw, or sometimes hay, as a thatched 'roof' for the stack, shielding the wheat, barley or oats from the elements until, once dry-enough, they could be threshed. The threshing machines then traveled from village to village. Thus, although the grain was harvested and the stacks were built by July, it often took until the following spring or even later - so through all the light and atmosphere changes of summer, autumn, winter and spring - for all the stacks to be reached by the threshing-machines. Grain storage/drying-stacks like these became common throughout Europe in the 19th century and survived until the inception of combine harvesters. Although the shapes of stacks were regional, in Normandy, where Giverny is situated, it was common for them to be round with quite steeply-pitched thatched 'roofs' - just as Monet painted.\n\nThe stacks belonged to Monet's farmer-neighbour, Monsieur Quéruel. Noticing the way the light changed on M. Quéruel's stacks, Monet asked his stepdaughter, Blanche Hoschedé, to bring him two canvases, one for sunny and one for overcast conditions. But Monet soon found he could not catch the ever-changing light and mood on merely two canvases: as a result, his willing helper was quickly bringing as many canvases as her wheelbarrow could hold. Monet's daily routine therefore came to involve carting paints, easels and many unfinished canvases back and forth, working on whichever canvas most closely resembled the scene of the moment as the conditions and light fluctuated. Although he began painting the stacks \"en plein air\", Monet later revised his initial impressions in his studio, both to generate contrast and to preserve the harmony within the series.\n\nMonet produced numerous \"Haystacks\" paintings. He painted five paintings (Wildenstein Index Numbers 1213-1217) with stacks as his primary subject during the 1888 harvest. His earlier landscapes (Wildenstein Index Number 900-995, 1073) had included stacks [and also some more-accurately described hayricks: that is smaller piles of hay for animal-feed] in an ancillary manner. The general consensus is that only the canvases produced using the 1890 harvest (Wildenstein Index Number 1266-1290) comprise the \"Haystacks\" series proper. However some commentators include additional paintings when referencing this series. For example, the Hill-Stead Museum talk of their two stack paintings even though one is from the 'proper' 1890 harvest, the other from the 1888 harvest. \n\nMonet's \"Haystacks\" series is one of his earliest to rely on repetition to illustrate nuances in his perception across natural variations such as times of day, seasons, and types of weather. For Monet, the concept of producing and exhibiting a series of paintings related by subject and vantage point began in 1889, with at least ten paintings done at the \"Valley of the Creuse\", and subsequently shown at the Galerie Georges Petit. This interest in the serial motif would continue for the rest of his career.\n\nAlthough the mundane subject was constant throughout the \"Haystack\" series, the underlying theme may be seen as the transience of light. This concept enabled Monet to use repetition to show nuances of perception as the time of day, the seasons and the weather changed. The almost unvarying subject provided the basis for him to compare changes of light and mood across his nuanced series. The first paintings in the series were started in late September or early October 1890, and he continued producing these paintings for about seven months. These paintings made Monet the first painter to paint such a large quantity of pictures of the same subject matter differentiated by light, weather, atmosphere and perspective.\n\nBeginning in the 1880s and 1890s, Monet focused on \"Haystacks\" and a number of other subjects (other series included the \"Mornings on the Seine,\" \"Poplars\", \"Rouen Cathedral,\" the \"Houses of Parliament,\" and the \"Water Lilies,\" among others). In order to work on many paintings virtually simultaneously, he would awake before dawn so as to begin at the earliest time of day:\n\nAs the morning progressed and the light changed he would switch to sequentially later canvas settings, sometimes working on as many as ten or twelve paintings a day, each one depicting a slightly different aspect of light. The process would be repeated over the course of days, weeks, or months, depending on the weather and the progress of the paintings until they were completed. As the seasons changed the process was renewed.\n\nCertain effects of light only last for a few minutes, thus the canvases documenting such ephemera received attention for no more than a few minutes a day. Further complicating matters, the light of subsequent sunrises, for example, could alter substantially and would require separate canvases within the series. Subsequently, different hues are evident in each painting, and in each work, color is used to describe not only direct but reflected light. At differing times of day and in various seasons stacks absorb the light from diverse parts of the color spectrum. As a result, the residual light that is reflected off of the stacks is seen as ever-changing, and manifests in distinctive coloring.\n\nMany notable painters have been influenced by this particular series including Les Fauves, Derain, and Vlaminck. Kandinsky's memoirs refer to the series: “What suddenly became clear to me was the unsuspected power of the palette, which I had not understood before and which surpassed my wildest dreams.” \nThe \"Haystacks\" series was a financial success. Fifteen of these were exhibited by Durand-Ruel in May 1891, and every painting sold within days. The exhibit met with great public acclaim. Octave Mirbeau described Monet's daring series as representing \"what lies beyond progress itself.\" Others described the stacks as \"faces of the landscape\" - they represented the countryside as a retreat from daily problems and home for contentment with nature. Camille Pissarro said: \"These canvases breathe contentment.\" Most of the paintings sold immediately for as much as 1,000 francs. Additionally, Monet’s prices, in general, began to rise steeply. As a result, he was able to buy outright the house and grounds at Giverny and to start constructing a waterlily pond. After years of mere subsistence living, he was able to enjoy success.\n\nThe series demonstrates his intense study of light and atmospheric conditions and Monet was a perfectionist in his renderings. Monet destroyed more than one series of paintings that he found wanting. However, this series escaped his own harsh self-criticism and destruction.\n\nFrom the 1888 harvest, Monet produced three canvases featuring two stacks each (Wildenstein #'s 1213-5) against the backdrop of hills along the left bank of the Seine and a few Giverny houses to the right. Then, he turned to his left to capture two scenes (1216-7) in which the hills are shrouded by a line of poplars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27161500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27161500", "title": "Högskolan för scen och musik", "text": "Högskolan för scen och musik\n\nThe Academy of Music and Drama (Swedish: \"Högskolan för scen och musik\", abbreviated HSM) at the University of Gothenburg is a school for music, composition, opera singing, music staging, teaching of music and creative subjects in Gothenburg. It belongs to the Faculty of Fine, Applied and Performing Arts. \n\nIt was started in 2005. as a merger of the former departments of music, theater and opera at the university. \n\nThe main campus building is Artisten in Gothenburg.\n\nThe school also acts as a training center for orchestral music. The programme is called the Swedish National Orchestra Academy (SNOA) and was started by the then head Ingemar Henningsson after preparatory work with the Gothenburg Symphony Orchestra (Göteborgs Symfoniker). The two-year program organizes about 8 or 9 orchestral projects per academic year.\n"}
{"id": "47069546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47069546", "title": "Joseph Kossivi Ahiator", "text": "Joseph Kossivi Ahiator\n\nJoseph Kossivi Ahiator (born 1956 in Aflao) is a Ghanaian artist, described as the most \"sought-after India spirit temple painter in Bénin, Togo and Ghana\". His work is in the possession of the Fowler Museum. He is noted for his print “The King of Mami Wata” (2005) and his Tchamba temple mural in Lomé.\n"}
{"id": "33748322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33748322", "title": "Killing Lincoln", "text": "Killing Lincoln\n\nKilling Lincoln: The Shocking Assassination That Changed America Forever is a book by Bill O'Reilly and Martin Dugard concerning the 1865 assassination of U.S. President Abraham Lincoln. The book was released on September 27, 2011.\n\nO'Reilly indicated in a \"USA Today\" interview that his coauthor Martin Dugard has written several history books. O'Reilly himself graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree in history from Marist College in 1971 as well as advanced degrees from Boston University and Harvard University.\n\nAs of 14 November 2011, \"Killing Lincoln\" was among Amazon's best sellers and at number two on the \"New York Times\" list of best-selling non-fiction. It also held the number one spot on the \"New York Times E-Book Nonfiction\" list for multiple weeks. In late October 2011, the publisher, Henry Holt and Co., stated that \"Killing Lincoln\" had sold nearly a million copies. On the November 14, 2011 edition of \"The O'Reilly Factor\", O'Reilly told his television audience that \"there are now more than 1 million copies of \"Killing Lincoln\" in print, and the book continues to sell briskly.\" By December 2012, the New York Times reported the book had been on their best-seller list for more than 65 weeks.\n\nDuring the book's initial release, Rae Emerson, the deputy superintendent of Ford's Theatre National Historic Site, conducted a review of the book's text and discovered a number of inaccuracies, which she described as \"factual errors\" and listed as numbering ten, each different and one additionally occurring multiple times. As a result of the review, the National Park Service, which manages Ford's Theatre, made the decision not to allow the edition of the book containing the errors to be sold at the Eastern National Bookstore located in the Museum at Ford’s Theatre National Historic Site, although it is sold in a gift shop in the lobby that is operated independently by the Ford’s Theatre Society. Historian Edward Steers has also criticized the book in a review for various inaccuracies and for lending support to conspiracy theories.\n\nIn response to Emerson's review, O'Reilly said that the mistakes, which he numbered less than her findings at just \"four minor misstatements\" and \"two typeset errors\" and had been corrected in subsequent printings. O'Reilly called the controversy \"a concerted effort by people who don’t like me to diminish the book,\" said that \"Killing Lincoln\" was \"honest,\" and wished all students would read it.\nEnglish-language, first-edition hardcover print copies containing errata material can be identified as such if they contain the following:\n\n\nO'Reilly told \"USA Today\" in a phone interview published in the September 29, 2011 issue that he talked with producers (\"big hitters\") about turning the book into a cable television special.\n\nTony Scott was working on adapting the book for the National Geographic Channel when he committed suicide on August 19, 2012. Production had already begun in Richmond, Virginia. In the film Virginia Repertory Theatre's November Theatre represented Fords Theatre. The film aired on National Geographic Channel on February 17, 2013 hosted and narrated by Tom Hanks. The docudrama was aired in memorial tribute to Tony Scott. The television film averaged 3.4 million viewers, scoring about 1 million viewers in the 25-54 demographic. It was National Geographic's highest-rated television airing surpassing \"Inside 9/11\", which drew 3 million in August 2005. The record was broken by \"Killing Kennedy\", which drew in 3,354,000 viewers while \"Lincoln\" took 3,351,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "39513274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39513274", "title": "Kongo textiles", "text": "Kongo textiles\n\nIn the Kongo Kingdom, the woven arts were emblematic of kingship and nobility. The coarse filament stripped from the fronds of the raffia palm tree served as the foundation of the Kongo weaving arts. This material imposed constraints that were overcome to produce varied and ingenious textile formats and structures.\n\nThe \"mpu\" was a supple knotted cap of golden raffia or pineapple fiber and a vital component of the chief's regalia, which also included a \"kinzembe\" mesh tunic, a woven chest bag, a charm bag (\"nkisi\"), a reliquary basket, the double bell, and a stool.\n\nFor Kongo, Vili, Yombe, Mbundu, and related peoples in northern Angola and the region formerly known as the Lower Congo, the \"mpu\" signified the authority invested in a person elected to an office of sacred leadership. Moraga writes that \"it was also a potent cosmological symbol connecting the chief (\"mfumu\"), the kin group, and the village to a mythic place of origin as well as a specific territorial domain (\"nsi\").\"\n\nThere are several types of \"mpu\" hats. The \"ngunda\" (from the root \"ngu\", meaning mother) is an unstructured domed style decorated with high-relief patterns that was bestowed on new chiefs during investiture rites. The \"ngola\" is a taller, conical cap worn by the paramount leaders of the Kongo realm.\n\nNearly all caps are constructed in spiral form, working from the center of the crown to the edge of the hat border. Mpu were designed to cover the spiritually vulnerable top of the head. The Congolese used to the term \"nzita\" to express their belief that hair grew in a circular pattern in this spot. According to Moraga, \"The crows of caps are typically worked with a spiraling lattice or openwork pattern that differs from the interlacing geometric designs on the sides- as if to mimic the whorls of the hair while accentuating the extraordinary protection afforded by the headwear.\"\n\nThe \"Kinzemba\" is an openwork tunic made of raffia fiber. The \"Kinzembe\" is unique among Central African ceremonial garments for having a traceable chronology that spans several hundred years and for the fact that it can be linked with a specific historical figure. Ne Vunde was a Kongo ambassador to the Vatican who died in 1608, shortly after arriving in Rome. He is represented wearing a \"Kinzembe\" in a memorial bust commissioned by the Pope after Ne Vunde's death. In 1688 in Angola, Capuchin priest Girolamo Merolla recorded the following description of a \"Kinzembe\": \"The gentry have a kind of straw garment on their sholders, which reaches down to their wastes, curiously wrought, wit their arms coming out at two slits, and ends in two tassels which hang down on the right side. About their wastes they have a cloth girth, which on one side hangs down to the ground.\"\n\nKongo baskets were displays of prestige and wealth. They were given as gifts to notables and foreigners as well as used by the wealthy and elite. These baskets often held prestige goods of great status that were given to the king. Special baskets also featured prominently in the ritual practice and belief of Kongo peoples.\n\nKongo baskets were fabricated with twill-patterned raffia fiber sides over a solid inner structure of wood or bark. The baskets' dynamic configurations of zig zags, diamonds, and chevrons arise naturally from a twill or plaiting technique using died or natural raffia fibers. They evolved into culturally significant patterns, which were translated into other media, such as funerary terracottas.\n\nAlthough separated by time and geography, there are many parallels between the Kongo and Kuba textile traditions. Both Kongo and Kuba art flourished within a hierarchical, courtly structure, and each society accorded high value to the arts of ceremony, personal adornment, and display. They also had in common the use of raffia palm fiber as the foundation of their weaving arts. Kongo and Kuba also share many geometric motifs, sacred signs, symbolic insignia, and types of textiles and prestige regalia, as well as techniques of fabrication.\n"}
{"id": "8884247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8884247", "title": "La MaMa Experimental Theatre Club", "text": "La MaMa Experimental Theatre Club\n\nLa MaMa Experimental Theatre Club (La MaMa E.T.C.) is an Off-Off-Broadway theatre founded in 1961 by Ellen Stewart, African-American theatre director, producer, and fashion designer. Located in Manhattan's East Village, the theatre began in the basement boutique where Stewart sold her fashion designs. Stewart turned the space into a theatre at night, focusing on the work of young playwrights. La MaMa has evolved during its fifty-year history into a world-renowned cultural institution.\n\nStewart started La MaMa as a theatre dedicated to the playwright and primarily producing new plays, including works by Paul Foster, Jean-Claude van Itallie, Lanford Wilson, Sam Shepard, Adrienne Kennedy, Harvey Fierstein, and Rochelle Owens. La MaMa also became an international ambassador for Off-Off-Broadway theatre by touring downtown theatre abroad during the 1960s.\n\nLa MaMa is the only theatre of the 1960s Off-Off-Broadway movement's four core theatres that continues to thrive today. The other three Off-Off-Broadway theatres that composed this core included Joe Cino's Caffe Cino, Al Carmines' Judson Poets Theatre, and Ralph Cook's Theatre Genesis. More than any other Off-Off-Broadway producer, Stewart reached out beyond the East Village, forcing rather than following new trends in theatre and performance.\n\nTo the present, La MaMa's mission is dedicated to \"the people who make art, and it is to them that we give our support with free theatre and rehearsal space, lights, sound, props, platforms, and whatever else we have that they can use to create their work. We want them to feel free to explore their ideas, and translate them into a theatrical language that can communicate to any person in any part of the world.\"\n\nEllen Stewart is the spirit of La MaMa; she is its guardian, janitor, fund raiser, press agent, tour manager, conceptual leader—she is the guts of the place. To understand this theatre one must first know Ellen Stewart.\n\nStewart worked as a fashion designer at Saks Fifth Avenue before starting the theatre. Stewart was inspired by her mentor, \"Papa Abraham Diamonds,\" who owned a fabric shop on the Lower East Side. Diamonds told Stewart that everyone needs both a \"pushcart to serve others\" and their own personal pushcart. Stewart had a revelation about this advice during a trip she took to Morocco and decided to open a boutique for her fashion designs that would also serve as a theatre for her foster brother, playwright Fred Lights, and his fellow playwright Paul Foster. On October 18, 1961, Stewart paid the fifty-five dollar rent on a tenement basement at 321 East Ninth Street to start her boutique and theater.\n\nAs opposed to Caffe Cino, which was focused on creating a specific atmosphere or clientele, La MaMa's primary focus was on the playwright. Stewart was interested in the people behind the work, and often didn't even read the plays. She relied on what she called \"beeps,\" or \"clicks,\" a hunch or feeling she got when meeting people and deciding whether or not to produce work with them.\n\nIn the early years, Stewart housed and fed playwrights and directors whenever possible. She acted as a mother; Jean-Claude van Itallie remembers his first meeting with Stewart:\n\nI never could have expected the warmth of Ellen's milk. She basically said to me, \"Honey, you're home. This space is for you to put on plays.\" The combination of her kindness and her smile and the beauty of the space were overwhelming ... Ellen broadcast to the world that we were doing something important. We were her baby playwrights and she sat on us like eggs that would hatch. She told us that what we were doing mattered, and we wouldn't get confirmation on that anywhere else.\n\nIn a 1997 interview, Stewart echoed this sentiment:\n\nI call them my kids. I'm very fortunate. They know they can come to see me whenever they want. They don't need to have appointments. And they call me on the phone from all over the world. I'd be a zero without my kids. They stay with me, and many have been very fortunate in their later careers.\n\nNot only did Stewart create a nurturing environment for the playwright, but La MaMa's space itself was an appealing blank canvas in its early years. van Itallie said of the space, \"it imposed no aesthetic, made no artistic suggestions.\" For this among other reasons, La MaMa was considered by many playwrights to be the most inviting of the Off-Off-Broadway theatres.\n\nIn 1963, Stewart created a policy of exclusively presenting new plays, producing a new play each week.\n\"Welcome to La MaMa dedicated to the playwright and all aspects of the theatre. Tonight we present ...\"\n\nStewart believed that young playwrights needed the ability to explore without the fear of professional criticism too early in their career, and that new playwrights shouldn't be critiqued in the same way as more experienced playwrights. Stewart said that playwrights who didn't feel they had the experience to make work at Caffe Cino would come to La MaMa instead. By producing their work, Stewart was creating a space for new playwrights to learn from practical, collaborative experiences.\n\nStewart did not believe that her theater was an imitation of Cino's. Cino and Stewart had a close relationship, and the first documented production at La MaMa, (\"One Arm\", July 27, 1962, an adaptation of a Tennessee Williams story, transferred from Caffe Cino. Perhaps the best way to understand Cino and Stewart's relationship is to consider their different models of producing plays. Cino rarely extended a run, as he didn't want to affect the next play's opening. If playwrights wanted longer runs and more exposure for a popular play, they went to La MaMa. There was an unspoken agreement between Cino and Stewart that the plays produced at either theatre could continue to a second run at the other. When Caffe Cino burned down in 1966, La MaMa hosted benefit shows to aid in the theatre's reopening. Joe Cino's family offered Stewart the theatre after his death in 1967, but she declined.\n\nLa MaMa's first home, the basement at 321 East Ninth Street, was renovated over a period of nine months. During this time, the neighbors became concerned about the different men visiting at various times to work on the space. Moreover, as an African-American woman, Stewart was not welcomed into the neighborhood. Barbara Lee Horn writes:\n\nNow, number 321 had been an all white building, and the tenants liked it that way. Further provoked by the comings and goings, they accused Stewart of running a bordello—fifteen men in one hour—and asked the health department to issue a summons for prostitution.\n\nThe health department was contacted, but the inspector who arrived happened to be an old vaudevillian. He advised Stewart that getting a license to open a coffeehouse was much easier than getting a license to open a theatre. Following this advice, La MaMa became Café La MaMa. Coffee and cake were served, admission was free, and any compensation that the actors received came from \"passing the hat.\" Stewart's fashion designs and seamstress jobs subsidized the theatre during its first decade of operation.\n\nThe first space was twenty by thirty feet with earthy red walls. The café sat twenty-five people and the dirt floor was planked with orange crates. There was one set piece: a bed. Stewart's initial intention of using the space as a boutique during the daytime quickly disappeared. As Stewart said, \"Once our theatre got started, I didn't have the discipline to sew. I was too busy doing other things – not writing or directing – but just doing theatre.\" The plays ran for one week, from Wednesday-Saturday, and major theatre critics did not come.\n\nEven operating as a \"café,\" Café La MaMa was forced to close and reopen ten times during its first year. Although the neighbors' fears concerning Stewart's supposed brothel had been quelled, fire inspectors often found violations at the theatre, which created serious legal problems. Stewart herself was arrested twice, and several other times under another alias. Issues with fire-code violations at Café La MaMa's first basement location led Stewart to search for a new space. In 1963, the Café was closed by the Buildings Department due to a zoning violation.\n\nCafé La MaMa moved into its second home, a loft above a florist shop at 82 Second Avenue, on June 28, 1963. One month after opening, Stewart was informed by the Buildings Department that she had to vacate this new space because she was making a profit from serving coffee. Stewart stopped serving coffee and began charging an admission of fifty cents.\n\nOn March 12, 1964, Café La MaMa was officially renamed La MaMa Experimental Theatre Club (La MaMa E.T.C). The \"passing of the hat\" ended with this transition from café to a members-only club. Even operating as a club, this space was often visited by civic authorities, frequently interrupting performances.\n\nThis second space was approximately five times larger than the first space and sat up to seventy-four people. The ceilings were twenty by fifty feet high and there was a one-step stage that was twenty by eight feet. 82 Second Avenue is where La MaMa E.T.C. truly became a theater. During this time, playwrights Lanford Wilson and Sam Shepard began producing plays at La MaMa. This was also where Stewart started her tradition of sitting outside on La MaMa's steps during performances to ensure that civic authorities didn't interrupt.\n\nBecause of building code violations, La MaMa was forced to relocate again in November 1964. All of these relocations were initiated by the Buildings Department inspector, who would contact the Fire Department, who would then contact the Police Department to issue a summons for Stewart's arrest. In order to avoid a third conviction, which would have made her a felon, Stewart moved La MaMa to a new space with the audience's help. Stewart recalled:\n\nIt was the closing performance of \"Balls\", Paul Foster's play. There must have been 35 people who came to see the play. Many of them had never been there before, I told them just to strike the café. Many didn't know what I meant, but they all saw the others picking up chairs and tables. Everybody picked something up and followed me down the street. We took everything, paintings, tables, chairs, coffeepots—everything. Well, they moved me in one hour.\n\nThe audience followed Stewart to the second floor of 122 Second Avenue, La MaMa's third home.\n\nOn November 11, 1964, La MaMa E.T.C. opened at 122 Second Avenue with David Novak's \"The Wedding Panda\". This space was twenty-three by seventy-five feet with a twelve-foot ceiling; the stage at the back was twenty-three by ten feet. The seating capacity was technically seventy-four, but the theatre would often fit 115 people at a time. This new, larger space attracted artists who had previously worked at other tiny Off-Off-Broadway venues but were ready for a larger space. Lanford Wilson's \"Balm in Gilead\", which needed a stage that could accommodate twenty-five people, and was also the first full-length play written for off-off Broadway, opened at 122 Second Avenue in January 1965.\n\nPartially due to previous legal struggles, the performances at 122 Second Avenue were primarily publicized by word of mouth. The theatre had no sign; the street-level door was labeled \"122 Delivery Entrance.\" There were weekly listings of the productions in the \"Village Voice\", but an address or a phone number was never listed. Only members could attend, and one had to visit 122 2nd Avenue in person to become a member. By 1967, La MaMa E.T.C. had an estimated three thousand members. La MaMa E.T.C. officially became a nonprofit organization in 1967.\n\nLa MaMa remained at this third location until 1967. This period was crucial to La MaMa's establishment and audience development. La MaMa moved for a final time when the lease on 122 2nd Avenue expired in April 1968.\n\nThe second floor at St. Mark's Place served as a transitional space for La MaMa from January through March 1969. On April 2, 1969, Stewart purchased the building at 74A East 4th Street using grant money from the Ford, Rockefeller, and Doris Duke Foundations.\n\nThe ground floor of 74A E. 4th is a theatre which seats one hundred people. Originally called the La Mama Repertory Theatre, the theatre is now called the First Floor Theatre. The second-floor space is a cabaret called the La MaMa Experimental Club with the capacity to seat seventy-five. With additional funding, the third floor became a rehearsal space and workshop. Finally, the top floor was turned into an apartment for Stewart. In 1970, a decaying seven-story loft building at 47 Great Jones Street was purchased for additional rehearsal space, using money from the Ford Foundation.\nIn 1974, La MaMa purchased 66 E. 4th Street, which is two doors down from 74A E. 4th. Initially referred to as the Annex, 66 E. 4th includes a flexible theatre space with a seating capacity of 299 as well as an upper floor dormitory for visiting artists. This space had previously served as a forty-eight by one hundred feet television soundstage with thirty-footy high ceilings. In 2009, the Annex was renamed the Ellen Stewart Theatre.\n\nTo date, La MaMa has presented and produced work by artists from over seventy nations.\n\nWhile frequently moving locations in Manhattan, La MaMa was also traveling internationally. Stewart wanted broad publicity for her playwrights but she wasn't finding this in the United States, due partially to La MaMa's \"hit or miss quality\" and partially to the short runs of productions. Critics also found it difficult to determine the \"dedicated devotion to novelty\" of La MaMa productions.\nUpon hearing that Danish and other European countries would review most productions seen in their cities, Stewart decided to establish a reputation in Europe so that the United States would take more notice. In the fall of 1965, with twenty-two plays and sixteen young actors, La MaMa had its first European tour.\n\nLa MaMa had two traveling companies. The first company, headed by Tom O'Horgan, went to Copenhagen for six weeks and was well-received. The Danish audience was interested in the company's passion and energy, and La MaMa was invited back the following year. The other company, led by Ross Alexander, went to Paris for six weeks. Unfortunately, the French audience found Jean-Claude van Itallie's \"America Hurrah\" obscene and the reviews were negative. Still, this first tour achieved its goal; La MaMa returned to New York with several positive Danish reviews. La MaMa had its second European tour from September–December 1966, again with O'Horgan and with ten actors. A third European tour took place from June–November 1967.\n\nThe La MaMa companies did not only bring La MaMa plays to Europe but also brought plays that were first presented at other Off-Off-Broadway venues. These included \"Home Free!\", \"The Madness of Lady Bright\", and \"Miss. Victoria\" from Caffe Cino, as well as \"Birdbath\" and \"Chicago\" from Theatre Genesis. Thus, La MaMa acted as \"international ambassadors, not just for La MaMa, but for new Village playwriting generally.\"\n\nLa MaMa has extended past these European tours, with satellite La MaMa theatres opening over the years in Boston, Amsterdam, Bogotá, Israel, London, Melbourne, Morocco, Munich, Paris, Tokyo, Toronto, and Vienna. As of 2006, only a few continued to carry the La MaMa name, including La MaMa Bogotá, La MaMa Tel Aviv, and La MaMa Melbourne.\n\nThese tours and satellite theatres not only created international connections and established La MaMa as a cultural ambassador for Off-Off-Broadway theatre, but also introduced experimental playwriting and O'Horgan's style of directing to international audiences. The La MaMa tours also allowed Stewart to create cross-cultural exchanges. She brought many notable international artists to La MaMa in Manhattan, including the Polish director Jerzy Grotowski in 1969 and the Romanian director Andrei Serban in 1970.\n\nStewart also created site-specific productions internationally. In 1981, she directed \"Romeo and Juliet\" on the grounds of Leopoldskran Castle in Salzburg, Austria. In 2004, she directed \"Trojan Women\" at the ruins in Gardzienice, Poland.\n\nLa MaMa Umbria, in Spoleto, Italy, is an artist's retreat and cultural center founded in 1990 by Stewart with her MacArthur Grant money. Since 2000, La MaMa has held a three-week international symposium for directors at the Umbria location.\n\nThe European tours influenced Stewart's own aesthetic: \"I learned in 1965, that English is not the beginning and end of anything. Generally, it's the ending, it messes you up.\" She also said that, \"I found the plays that were the most visual were the ones people liked.\" These realizations shifted Stewart's primary interest from the playwright to the director. In the 1970s, Stewart was interested in pairing playwrights and directors as a kind of theatrical matchmaker. She also had an interest in playwrights who directed and/or were solo performers. Stewart's 1970s shift in focus aligned with the concurrent historical \"end\" of the original Off-Off-Broadway movement. While La MaMa is the only Off-Off-Broadway theatre of the core four Off-Off-Broadway theatres that continues to function, La MaMa has evolved and adapted beyond Stewart's original focus on the playwright.\n\nIn 1964, Tom O'Horgan joined La MaMa. Directing over sixty plays, including his all-male version of Jean Genet's \"The Maids\", O'Horgan was crucial to La MaMa's development. He was the theatre's first Artistic Director and was also integral to La MaMa's international tours. As a musician, O'Horgan performed with the Chicago Civic Opera in his youth and had professional training as a harpist, and was also trained in ballet. He came to La MaMa from Second City, bringing his interest and knowledge of Viola Spolin and Paul Sills' role-playing theories of human behavior and games adapted for theatre. This background gave O'Horgan an interest in the totality of theatre, which aligned perfectly with Stewart's interest in a theatrical language that transcended text. This interest of Stewart's developed primarily from La MaMa's international touring. O'Horgan's direction included musically driven vocal and movement techniques, which contributed to the distinctive La MaMa genre of theatre.\n\nO'Horgan and Stewart decided to create a workshop to develop the particular type of actors needed for La MaMa's productions. O'Horgan went on to direct the La MaMa Troupe from 1965 to 1969. This decision was initiated by the experience of working on \"Three from La MaMa\" with National Educational Television. \"Three from La MaMa\" was a television program of three La MaMa theatre pieces: \"Pavane\" by Jean-Claude van Itallie; \"Fourteen Hundred Thousand\" by Sam Shepard; and \"The Recluse\" by Paul Foster. The executive director of National Educational Television, Brice Howard, would not allow any La MaMa actors to perform in \"Three from La MaMa\". Howard declared that the La MaMa actors were too inexperienced, which led Stewart and O'Horgan to start the actor-training workshop.\n\nIn comparison to the psychological acting style and emphasis on method acting that was popular at the time, the La MaMa workshop focused on the other side of acting: externalized, kinetic techniques. The fifteen members of the La MaMa Troupe had workshops in movement, voice, and acting for five hours a day, five days a week. These workshops included hundreds of different exercises, which are best represented by \"Hair,\" a La MaMa show that transferred to Broadway in 1968. \"Village Voice\" critic Michael Smith wrote on \"Hair\"'s Broadway opening: \"O'Horgan has blown up Broadway.\" \"Hair\" brought international acclaim to O'Horgan and the La MaMa performance style.\n\nFor some of the actors in the La MaMa troupe, O'Horgan's \"Hair\" was a \"betrayal\" and a \"crass commercialization of lovingly developed ensemble techniques.\" The success of \"Hair\" affected La MaMa's identity, as did O'Horgan's frequent lack of availability to direct later productions. O'Horgan left La MaMa in 1969.\n\nMore experienced actors began to work at La MaMa as its reputation grew, creating problems with the Actors' Equity Association. In 1966, the union refused to allow their members to work at La MaMa without contracts. As a result, La MaMa was forced to shut down from October 12, 1966, until November 9, 1966.\n\nEquity believed that since La MaMa did not pay its actors the theatre was competing with Off-Broadway and would have to shut down. Peter Feldman, an Off-Off-Broadway director, wrote into the \"New York Times\" disputing Equity's reasoning. He wrote that La MaMa \"did provide a stimulating environment for actors to work\" and that working at La MaMa often led to paying jobs for actors when productions got transferred to Off-Broadway or Broadway. Feldman also emphasized that Stewart was not a commercial producer, but the head of a not-for-profit theatre, and was thus being considered unfairly.\n\nAfter a hearing with Stewart, the union resolved the conflict by creating a new showcase code. As long as La MaMa remained a private club, Equity actors could perform without contracts. This code still applies to Off-Off-Broadway productions today.\n\nIn 2005, the theatre was among 406 New York City arts and social service institutions to receive part of a $20 million grant from the Carnegie Corporation, made possible by a donation from then-mayor of New York City, Michael Bloomberg.\n\nToday, over one hundred productions with over four hundred performances are staged at La MaMa each season. Stewart continued to be artistic director and \"mother\" at La MaMa until her death on January 13, 2011. The choice of who would follow Stewart was significant, as \"Ellen is La MaMa\" to many people. Before her death, Stewart chose to be succeeded by Mia Yoo, who continues to serve as artistic director.\n\nThe La MaMa Archives is a collection chronicling the theatre's history and documenting the development of Off-Off-Broadway theatre. The collection includes approximately 10,000 items in a range of formats, including posters, programs, scripts, costumes, puppets, masks, musical instruments, correspondence, photographs, and audiovisual materials. The Archives has developed a chronological list of productions staged at La MaMa from 1962 through 2010, and in 2014 received a grant from the Council on Library and Information Resources to create a searchable digital catalog of its collection. In 2016, the Archives received a grant from the National Historic Records and Publications Commission to support a collaborative project, with the Bay Area Video Coalition and the Wisconsin Center for Film and Theatre Research, that will result in expanded access to a collection of half-inch open reel videos that document theatrical work performed at La MaMa during the 1970s.\n\nMany well-known actors, directors, playwrights, and companies, as well as lighting, costume, and set designers, have performed at La MaMa, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "34547608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34547608", "title": "Leopard Spotted Horses", "text": "Leopard Spotted Horses\n\nLeopard Spotted Horses appear in Paleolithic cave paintings. These paintings depict white, spotted horses and experts cannot agree if they depict real or imagined animals. The difference is of importance as it would reveal tendencies to either realism or creativity in early human art. Studies of DNA in horse fossils of similar date to the paintings show the presence of the Leopard complex gene, which could result in the coat patterns shown in the caves.\n\nAncient cave paintings began emerging roughly 35,000 years ago and are found often in remote locations around the world. According to various carbon dating tests, roughly 25,000 years ago, a cave painting depicting spotted horses was painted in Pech Merle cave in France. European cave paintings often depict rhinoceros, wild cattle and other types of game, but the spotted horses depicted seem to indicate that the species existed 20,000 years prior to their domestication, some 5,000 years ago.\n\nThe coat patterns in horses are genetically-related and are called a leopard complex. The genes in leopard complex are also linked to abnormalities in the eyes and vision. These patterns are most closely identified with the Appaloosa horse breed, though its presence in breeds from Asia to western Europe has indicated that it is due to a very ancient mutation.\n\nUntil now, scientists only had DNA evidence of monochrome horses - mainly bay and black - living in Europe in that period, and had therefore assumed that the spots had a shamanistic or spiritual significance – or were simply the artistic license of an imaginative caveman. With past research of ancient DNA only turning up evidence of brown and black horses as seen painted in the Lascaux Cave and Chauvet Cave, scientists wondered if the spotted horses seen in other caves such as Pech Merle, with it paintings of white horses with black spots, were real or fantasy. New DNA evidence gathered and analyzed by an international team of researchers has found that spotted horses did indeed exist in Europe in what is known as the Upper Paleolithic period, 50,000 to 10,000 years ago.\n\nThe approximately 25,000-year-old paintings \"The Dappled Horses of Pech Merle\" depict spotted horses on the walls of a cave in France remarkably similar to a pattern known as \"leopard\" in modern horses such as Appaloosas. Horses were popular among Stone Age artists, found in most cave paintings that have recognizable animals in them, commonly in a caricature form that slightly exaggerates the most typical \"horsey\" features, such as their manes of hair.\n\nUntil now, ancient DNA analyses suggested horses during the Stone Age were only black or bay colored with no evidence for white-spotted patterns. This hinted that cave paintings of leopard-patterned horses were fantasy, not accurate portrayals. Some have proposed that drawings of imaginary animals might have had some kind of symbolic or even religious value.\n\nResearch now suggests those paintings might actually have been based on the real-life appearance of the animals.\n\nScientists investigated the differences in genes for coat color of 31 ancient horse fossils from Siberia, Eastern and Western Europe and the Iberian Peninsula. The researchers found that a genetic mutation associated with the presence of white leopard-like spotting patterns on modern horses was present in six of the European horse fossils. Additionally, seven of the fossils had the genetic variation for black coat color, whereas 18 had bay coats.\n\nAll horse color phenotypes that seem to be distinguishable in cave paintings have now been found to exist in prehistoric horse populations, suggesting that cave paintings of this species represent remarkably realistic depictions of the animals shown. This finding lends support to hypotheses arguing that cave paintings might have contained less of a symbolic or transcendental connotation than often assumed. Still, although these horses might not have been imaginary but cannot be excluded that the paintings had not have any religious value.\n\nLeopard-spotted patterns in modern horses are sometimes linked with congenital problems such as stationary night blindness, perhaps explaining why any wild horses with them eventually died out long ago. As to why so many other horse fossils were found with them in the first place, perhaps this patterning provided camouflage in the snowy environments of the Stone Age, was attractive to mates or just stuck around due to random chance.\n\nIt is difficult to judge how common the spotted horses were, based on the handful of samples tested, but there may be evidence that they were \"not rare.\" This is also a new insight, since many researchers had considered a spotted coat unlikely for Paleolithic horses. The ability to genotype Stone Age animals is a relatively new tool for archeologists, and it is possible to gain more knowledge about the appearance of these animals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44776285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44776285", "title": "List of artists represented in the National Museum of Western Art, Tokyo", "text": "List of artists represented in the National Museum of Western Art, Tokyo\n\nThis is an incomplete list of artists represented in the National Museum of Western Art, Tokyo.\n"}
{"id": "9454407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9454407", "title": "Liz Friedman", "text": "Liz Friedman\n\nLiz Friedman is an American television producer and television writer known especially for her work on \"\", \"Young Hercules\", \"House\" and \"Jessica Jones\". In 2014, she was nominated for an Emmy for Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series for co-writing the pilot episode of Netflix original series \"Orange Is the New Black\".\n\nShe wrote and produced episodes of \"\", early in her writing career. Friedman was co-creator, writer, and executive producer of \"Young Hercules\". Soon after, she along with fellow \"House\" writers, Lawrence Kaplow, Leonard Dick, and Thomas L. Moran wrote episodes for \"Hack\". She wrote for \"The O.C.\" and \"Numb3rs\" before joining the writing staff of \"House\" in Season 2.\n\nFriedman graduated from the Winsor School in Boston, followed by Wesleyan University with a degree in sociology. Her thesis was entitled \"A Feminist and Class-based Analysis of Slasher Films\".\n\nShe also co-wrote the pilot episode of Netflix original series \"Orange Is the New Black\" with the creator of the show, Jenji Kohan. The two were nominated for an Emmy for Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series for the episode in 2014.\nFriedman also worked on the Netflix series \"Jessica Jones\", which has been critically acclaimed after its first season 13 episodes, released in 2015.\n\n\nLiz Friedman was portrayed by the actress Hudson Leick (most famous for playing Callisto) on two of the TV series \"\" – \"Yes, Virginia, There Is a Hercules\" and \"For Those of You Just Joining Us\". Leick portrayed an over-the-top, chain-smoking version of Liz Friedman who was the cynical voice of reason amongst the producers.\n\nFriedman is openly lesbian. She is married to Yvette Abatte. They have a son, Max.\n"}
{"id": "1982071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1982071", "title": "Lola (song)", "text": "Lola (song)\n\n\"Lola\" is a song written by Ray Davies and performed by English rock band the Kinks on their album \"Lola Versus Powerman and the Moneygoround, Part One\". The song details a romantic encounter between a young man and a possible transvestite, whom he meets in a club in Soho, London. In the song, the narrator describes his confusion towards Lola, who \"walked like a woman but talked like a man\". Although Ray Davies claims that the incident was inspired by a true encounter experienced by the band's manager, alternative explanations for the song have been given by drummer Mick Avory.\n\nThe song was released in the United Kingdom on 12 June 1970, while in the United States it was released on 28 June 1970. Commercially, the single reached number two on the UK Singles Chart and number nine on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. Due to its controversial subject matter and use of the brand name Coca-Cola, the single received backlash and even bans in Britain and Australia. The single version (mono) used the words \"cherry cola\" while the album version (stereo) uses the name \"Coca-Cola\". The track has since become one of The Kinks' most iconic and popular songs, later being ranked number 422 on \"Rolling Stone's 500 Greatest Songs of All Time\" as well as number 473 on the \"NME's 500 Greatest Songs Of All Time\" list.\n\nSince its release, \"Lola\" has appeared on multiple compilation and live albums. In 1980, a live version of the song from the album \"One for the Road\" was released as a single in the US and some European countries, becoming a minor hit. In the Netherlands it became #1, just as in 1970 with the studio version. Other versions include live renditions from 1972's \"Everybody's in Show-Biz\" and 1996's \"To the Bone\". The \"Lola\" character also made an appearance in the lyrics of the band's 1981 song, \"Destroyer\".\n\nRay Davies has claimed that he was inspired to write \"Lola\" after Kinks manager Robert Wace spent a night in Paris dancing with a transvestite. Davies said of the incident, \"In his apartment, Robert had been dancing with this black woman, and he said, 'I'm really onto a thing here.' And it was okay until we left at six in the morning and then I said, 'Have you seen the stubble?' He said 'Yeah', but he was too pissed [intoxicated] to care, I think\".\n\nDrummer Mick Avory has offered an alternative explanation for the song's lyrics, claiming that \"Lola\" was partially inspired by Avory's frequenting of transvestite bars in west London. Avory said, \"We used to know this character called Michael McGrath. He used to hound the group a bit, because being called The Kinks did attract these sorts of people. He used to come down to \"Top of the Pops\", and he was publicist for John Stephen's shop in Carnaby Street. He used to have this place in Earl's Court, and he used to invite me to all these drag queen acts and transsexual pubs. They were like secret clubs. And that's where Ray [Davies] got the idea for 'Lola'. When he was invited too, he wrote it while I was getting drunk\".\n\nDespite claims that the song was written about a supposed date between Ray Davies and Candy Darling, Davies has since claimed this rumour to be false, saying that the two only went out to dinner together and that he had known the whole time that Darling was trans.\n\nIn his autobiography, Dave Davies said that he came up with the music for what would become \"Lola\", noting that brother Ray added the lyrics after hearing it. In a 1990 interview, Dave Davies stated that \"Lola\" was written in a similar fashion to \"You Really Got Me\" in that the two worked on Ray's basic skeleton of the song, saying that the song was more of a collaborative effort than many believed.\n\nWritten in April 1970, \"Lola\" was cited by Ray Davies as the first song he wrote following a break he took to act in the 1970 Play for Today film \"The Long Distance Piano Player\". Davies said that he had initially struggled with writing an opening that would sell the song, but the rest of the song \"came naturally\".\n\nInitial recordings of the song began in April 1970, but, as the band's bassist John Dalton remembered, recording for \"Lola\" took particularly long, stretching into the next month. During April, four to five versions were attempted, utilizing different keys as well as varying beginnings and styles. In May, new piano parts were added to the backing track by John Gosling, the band's new piano player that had just been auditioned. Vocals were also added at this time. The song was then mixed during that month. Mick Avory remembered the recording sessions for the song positively, saying that it \"was fun, as it was the Baptist's [John Gosling's] first recording with us\".\n\nThe guitar opening on the song was produced as a result of combining the sound of a Martin guitar and a vintage Dobro resonating guitar. Ray Davies cited this blend of guitar sounds for the song's unique guitar sound.\n\nDespite the chart success \"Lola\" would achieve, its fellow \"Lola vs. Powerman\" track \"Powerman\" was initially considered to be the first single from the album. However, \"Lola\", which Ray Davies later claimed was an attempt to write a hit, was eventually decided on as the debut single release.\n\n\"Lola\" was released as a single in 1970. In the UK, the B-side to the single was \"the Kinks Are the Village Green Preservation Society\" outtake \"Berkeley Mews\" while the Dave Davies-penned \"Mindless Child of Motherhood\" was used in the US. It became an unexpected chart smash for the Kinks, reaching number two in Britain and number nine in the United States. The single also saw success worldwide, reaching the top of the charts in Ireland, New Zealand, and South Africa, as well as the top 5 in Germany, Austria, Belgium, and Switzerland. The success of the single had important ramifications for the band's career at a critical time, allowing them to negotiate a new contract with RCA Records, construct their own London Studio, and assume more creative and managerial control. In a 1970 interview, Dave Davies stated that, if \"Lola\" had been a failure, the band would have \"gone on making records for another year or so and then drifted apart\".\n\nAlthough the track was a major hit for the band, Dave Davies did not enjoy the success of \"Lola\", saying, \"In fact, when 'Lola' was a hit, it made me feel a bit uncomfortable. Because it was taking us out of a different sort of comfort zone, where we'd been getting into the work, and the writing and the musicality was more thought about. It did have that smell of: 'Oh blimey, not that again.' I found it a bit odd, that period. And then it got odder and weirder\". Mick Avory said that he \"enjoyed the success\" the band had with \"Lola\" and its follow-up, \"Apeman\".\n\nOriginally, \"Lola\" saw controversy for its lyrics. In a \"Record Mirror\" article entitled \"Sex Change Record: Kink Speaks\", Ray Davies addressed the matter, saying, \"It really doesn't matter what sex Lola is, I think she's alright\". Some radio stations would fade the track out before implications of Lola's biological sex were revealed. On 18 November 1970, the song was banned in Australia because of its \"controversial subject matter\".\n\nThe BBC banned the track for a different reason. The original song recorded in stereo had the word \"Coca-Cola\" in the lyrics, but because of BBC Radio's policy against product placement, Ray Davies was forced to make a 6000-mile round-trip flight from New York to London and back on June 3, 1970, interrupting the band's American tour, to change those words to the generic \"cherry cola\" for the single release, which is included on various compilation albums as well.\n\n\"Lola\" received positive reviews from critics. Upon the single's release, the \"NME\" praised the song as \"an engaging and sparkling piece with a gay Latin flavour and a catchy hook chorus\". \"Billboard\" said of the song at the time of its US release, \"Currently a top ten British chart winner, this infectious rhythm item has all the ingredients to put the Kinks right back up the Hot 100 here with solid impact\". \"Rolling Stone\" critic Paul Gambaccini called the song as \"brilliant and a smash\". Music critic Robert Christgau, despite his mixed opinion on the \"Lola vs. Powerman\" album, praised the single as \"astounding\". Stephen Thomas Erlewine of AllMusic lauded the song for \"its crisp, muscular sound, pitched halfway between acoustic folk and hard rock\". \"Ultimate Classic Rock\" ranked \"Lola\" as The Kinks' third best song, saying \"the great guitar riff that feeds the song is one of Dave's all-time greatest\". \"Paste Magazine\" listed the track as the band's fourth best song.\n\nThe song was also well-liked by the band. Mick Avory, who noted the song as one of the songs he was most proud to be associated with, said \"I always liked 'Lola', I liked the subject. It's not like anything else. I liked it for that. We'd always take a different path\". In a 1983 interview, Ray Davies said, \"I'm just very pleased I recorded it and more pleased I wrote it\". The band revisited the \"Lola\" character in the lyrics of their 1981 song, \"Destroyer\", a minor chart hit in America.\n\nSatirical artist \"Weird Al\" Yankovic created a parody of the song called \"Yoda\", featuring lyrics about the \"Star Wars\" character of the same name, on his 1985 album \"Dare to Be Stupid\".\n\nSince its release, \"Lola\" became a mainstay in The Kinks' live repertoire, appearing in the majority of the band's subsequent set-lists until the group's break-up. In 1972, a live performance of the song recorded at Carnegie Hall in New York City appeared on the live half of the band's 1972 album, \"Everybody's in Show-Biz\", a double-LP which contained half new studio compositions and half live versions of previously released songs.\n\nA live version of \"Lola\", recorded on 23 September 1979 in Providence, Rhode Island, was released as a single in the US in July 1980 to promote the live album \"One for the Road\". The B-side was the live version of \"Celluloid Heroes\". The single was a moderate success, reaching number 81 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. It was also released in some countries in Europe (although not the UK) in April 1981. It topped the charts in both the Netherlands, matching the number one peak of the original version, and in Belgium, where it exceeded the original's peak of three. It also charted in Australia, peaking at number 69 and spending 22 weeks on the charts. Although not released as a stand-alone single in the UK, it was included on a bonus single (backed with a live version of \"David Watts\" from the same album) with initial copies of \"Better Things\" in June 1981. This live rendition, along with the live versions of \"Celluloid Heroes\" and \"You Really Got Me\" from the same album, also appeared on the 1986 compilation album \"Come Dancing with The Kinks: The Best of the Kinks 1977–1986\".\n\nAlthough it did not appear on the original 1994 version, another live version of \"Lola\" was included on the 1996 US double-album release of \"To the Bone\", the band's final release of new material before their dissolution.\n\n1970 studio version\n\n1980 live version\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26968650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26968650", "title": "Longhouse Media", "text": "Longhouse Media\n\nLonghouse Media is a Washington State non-profit indigenous media arts organization, based in Seattle. It was established in January 2005 by Executive Director, Tracy Rector and former Artistic Director, Annie Silverstein, with the support of the Swinomish Indian Tribal Community. Longhouse Media supports the use of today’s technologies by indigenous people and communities as a tool for self-expression, cultural preservation, and social change. Longhouse Media counts 4 full-time and 3 part-time staff, 30 active volunteers, and 8 board members. Among the founding board members is award-winning author, playwright and poet Sherman Alexie, from the Spokane/Coeur d'Alene Tribes.\n\nCentral to Longhouse Media is its commitment to providing youth the skills necessary to tell their own stories through digital media. Its youth media program ‘Native Lens’ brings digital media training to Native youth in rural and urban settings and teaches filmmaking to Native youth as a form of inquiry, community development, and cultural pride and preservation. Native Lens was the recipient of the 2007 Seattle Mayor’s Award. In 2009, the monthly television show Native Lens TV was launched. Since 2005 Longhouse Media has worked with a documented 1500 youth and 31 separate tribes.\nProductions by Longhouse Media include the feature-length documentary \"March Point\" which aired nationally on the award-winning PBS series Independent Lens and the short film \"UNRESERVED: The Work of Louie Gong\" about Seattle-based artist and activist Louie Gong.\n\nEach year Longhouse Media partners with the Seattle International Film Festival to organize and host the SuperFly Filmmaking Experience. It also collaborates with the Northwest Film Forum and National Geographic All Roads Film Project to present a monthly film series showcasing emerging talents in indigenous communities.\nLonghouse Media also supports and participates in the annual Urban Native art exhibit \"First Expressions\" to challenge common stereotypes and misconceptions through up and coming Pacific Northwest Native and indigenous artists.\nIn 2009 Longhouse Media received the National Association for Media Literacy Education Award.\nAs a young non profit organization, Longhouse Media tries to balance the internal and external challenges it faces. Areas of improvement as identified by a Graduate Consultant Team from Seattle University would be the Board’s fundraising strategy, its performance monitoring, and the management of critical events.\n\nIn March 2010, a Longhouse Media March Point documentary photo was used in an online extraction ad for Native youth in Ontario, Canada. The service offered to\n\"round up and remove First Nations youth like wild animals, and habitat.\"\nAmong many to respond, author and poet Sherman Alexie also spoke out, saying, \"As much as the world has changed for indigenous people in good ways, there are still many violent and hateful folks out there who seek to harm us, and we must condemn them in print and in action, and we must do this together.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "21979918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21979918", "title": "Madeline Brandeis", "text": "Madeline Brandeis\n\nMadeline Brandeis (1897 – June 28, 1937) was an American author of children's books, and a film producer.\n\nBrandeis was best known for her \"Children of America\" and \"Children of All Lands\" series of books. Most of the fictional stories included photographs taken by the author, with child actors as the books' characters.\n\nShe was also a founder of The Little Players' Film Co., with offices in New York and Chicago, which featured casts composed almost entirely of children. She personally wrote and directed the feature \"The Star Prince\" in 1918, released in 1920 as \"Twinkle Twinkle Little Star\".\n\nBrandeis was born as Madeline Frank in San Francisco. She died in Gallup, New Mexico, of injuries suffered in an automobile accident two weeks earlier while she and her daughter, Marie, were driving from New York to Los Angeles.\n\n\n+ \"Works whose U.S. copyrights were renewed.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18421386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18421386", "title": "Margery Wilson", "text": "Margery Wilson\n\nMargery Wilson (October 31, 1896 – January 21, 1986), was an American actress, writer, and silent movie director. She appeared in 51 films between 1914 and 1939.\n\nWilson was born in Gracey, Kentucky and died in Arcadia, California.\n\nLife in the Film Industry\n\nIn 1914, Margery Wilson traveled to Los Angeles to pursue a career in Hollywood. She was in a very wide range of motion picture films, but is best known for her portrayal of Brown Eyes, who was a character in a D.W. Griffith film called \"Intolerance\". She had three dozen roles, many she starred in. Wilson also was one of Hollywood's earliest woman directors. Her career as a film writer, director, and producer was short lasting from 1920-1922. Those three years did not include the few that she toured with her films. She directed at least three movies, That Something (1920), The Offenders (1921), and Insinuation (1922). There are no surviving prints of any of her directing efforts. She finished her work as a film director by her late twenties.\n\nMargery Wilson was born Sara Barker Strayer in Gracey, Kentucky. Going by the Twelfth Census of the U.S. of the 1900, she was Sarah B. Strayer in Tennessee. She received higher education in both Philosophy and Literature while also pursuing social service work. Starting out, Wilson gave public performances in Cincinnati at clubs, schools, and churches. Later, she was able to tour from Ohio to Atlanta with the John Lawrence players as the leading lady. By the age of sixteen, she founded her own theater company. She and her sister left for London on a world tour as musical entertainers. In 1914, Wilson traveled to Los Angeles and launched her Hollywood career.\n\nWilson was married more than once with two children. Both of her children died before she did. She lived in homes on both coasts. She left the film production business to take care of her children after marrying Otto Meeks. Otto Meeks was the owner of a ranching empire. Although she was no longer in film production, she stayed connected to the business by contributing to pamphlets about famous people. Because of her Hollywood connections, she was able to write 50 of the pamphlets. Wilson died January 21. She lived in Arcadia at this time and was believed to be in her early nineties.\n\nIn a 1982 interview, Wilson had clearly stated that she did not wish to be called a feminist; however, many who analyzed her work have seen her as such. Wilson was one of the few woman filmmakers to overcome the struggles and obstacles she faced in the industry with her projects. She wrote guidance books that coached husbands on how to protect and treat their wives. In 1951, her book \"How to Make The Most of Wife\" was published. These books could also be considered inspirational non-fiction. After leaving the film industry, Wilson began writing radio scripts for her own charm program in Los Angeles. Her autobiography, \"I Found My Way\", was published in 1956. Wilson authored several inspirational, self-help books for women, including \"Charm\" and \"The Woman You Want To Be\".\n\nAfter her career as a filmmaker, she was a successful speech coach for actors and gave public lectures both on the radio and in person.\n\n"}
{"id": "6140213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6140213", "title": "North American cinema", "text": "North American cinema\n\nNorth American cinema generally refers collectively to the film industries of the United States and Canada. The term is cultural rather than geographic; the film industries of Mexico and Cuba are normally considered part of Latin American cinema.\n\n"}
{"id": "7093189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7093189", "title": "Preliminary Discourse to the Encyclopedia of Diderot", "text": "Preliminary Discourse to the Encyclopedia of Diderot\n\nThe Preliminary Discourse\" to the \"Encyclopedia\" of \"Diderot (\"Discours Préliminaire des Éditeurs\") is the primer to Denis Diderot's \"Encyclopédie ou Dictionnaire raisonné des sciences, des arts et des métiers, par une Société de Gens de lettres\", a collaborative collection of all the known branches of the arts and sciences of the 18th century French Enlightenment. The \"Preliminary Discourse\" was written by Jean Le Rond d'Alembert to describe the structure of the articles included in the \"Encyclopédie\" and their philosophy, as well as to give the reader a strong background in the history behind the works of the learned men who contributed to what became the most profound circulation of the knowledge of the time.\n\n\"The Preliminary Discourse to the Encyclopedia of Diderot\" is arguably one of the best introductions to the French Enlightenment, giving forth the idea that man possesses the capability, through his own intelligence and analysis, to alter the conditions of human life. The \"Encyclopedia\" constituted a demand of the intellectual community for a refinement of all of the branches of knowledge in reference to past and recent discoveries. Such a compilation of human knowledge would be both secular and naturalistic, discrediting theology as the primary basis. The \"Discourse\", although created by d'Alembert, was actually a result of collaboration with other \"men of letters\" aiming towards the same progressive goals of the Enlightenment.Three of these major contemporary \"philosophes\" that undoubtedly contributed to the guiding philosophies and beliefs of the \"Discourse\" include Denis Diderot, Jean-Jacques Rousseau, and Étienne Bonnot de Condillac, with whom d'Alembert was known to have been in contact. These men shared a passion for the dissemination of scientific knowledge. And, although this time period would seem unfavorable to such an endeavor, with Europe undergoing massive political upheaval and general instability, the time was ripe for their ideals to take hold. A thriving community of professionals, aristocrats, and clergy became increasingly responsive to the exchange of ideas that came to characterize and serve as the foundation for the cooperative compilation of information in this \"Encyclopedia\".\n\nBefore the \"Discourse\" was ever created, d'Alembert was actually better known for his scientific and mathematical genius. However, over time, and in part due to his vibrant personality, he befriended Madame du Deffand, whose powerful salon ultimately allowed him to enter the public eye as a philosophe. d'Alembert also became a close ally of Diderot, and eventually, d'Alembert was a man who was held in very high regard among Europe's intellectuals. Ultimately, d'Alembert's tendency to turn more to history to explain the foundations of science and ethics reflects a general historical trend to seek enlightenment and better understanding of human nature in history. Ultimately, the Discourse defines two ways of approaching ideas, one of which being operations of the \"isolated mind\" (xli) and the other concerning studies of the origins of truth as a function of the progress of a given society. Although the Discourse derives much of its fundamental principles from men such as René Descartes, John Locke and Condillac in a purely metaphysical sense, the effect of historical experience is vital.\n\nIt is important to note that while the philosophes began the intellectual transformations that became known as the French Enlightenment, scientists all over Europe began to make their own changes in terms of new discoveries, areas they felt required further study, and how they could go about such studies, i.e. their methodology. Many of these new scientists felt that they were rebelling against old forms of science and scientific knowledge, just as the philosophes felt that they were bringing to the world a new way of thinking about humanity and human knowledge. The philosophes were aware of these changes in the field of science, and as such, they fully supported, and arguably adapted, the scientists's new systems of thinking into their philosophical ideas. One can see this in the \"Discourse\" itself; d'Alembert attempted to create a method of systematizing and organizing all legitimate information and knowledge as well as make easier and more efficient the unearthing of more knowledge.\n\nD'Alembert's motives behind such an enterprise can ultimately be referenced to one of the ideas that he puts forth in the Discourse, for \"liberty of action and thought alone is capable of producing great things, and liberty requires only enlightenment to preserve it from excess\" (62). Clerical control in the domain of knowledge and intellect was considered detrimental to the progress of human knowledge. Maintaining that the Discourse was ultimately corrosive to hierarchical authority and privilege paved the way for the evolution of egalitarian principles in Western culture. D'Alembert puts forth that all men are equal in their sensations, which is the source of their mind. The ultimate distinction of man is primarily intellectual, which overthrows any preconceived connection between social privilege and knowledge. Therefore, the Encyclopedia as a whole speaks to the general public.\n\nIn part one of the book, d'Alembert provides a general introduction to the origin of knowledge, which led to the works found in the \"Encyclopédie\". He asserts that the \"existence of our senses\" is \"indisputable,\" and that these senses are thus the principle of all knowledge. He links this idea to a chain of thinking and reflection that eventually leads to the need to communicate, which sets another chain of events in effect. One of his arguments for the origin of communication is that it was necessary for people to protect themselves from the evils of the world and to benefit from each other's knowledge. This communication led to the exchange of ideas that enhanced the ability of individuals to further human knowledge. Additionally, d'Alembert introduces the reader to the types of knowledge people store. The two main types that he describes refer to direct and reflexive knowledge. Direct knowledge is obtained by human senses and reflexive knowledge is derived from direct knowledge. These two types of knowledge lead to the three main types of thinking and their corresponding divisions of human knowledge: memory, which corresponds with History; reflection or reason, which is the basis of Philosophy; and what d'Alembert refers to as \"imagination,\" (50) or imitation of Nature, which produces Fine Arts.\n\nFrom these divisions spring smaller subdivisions such as physics, poetry, music and many others. d'Alembert was also greatly influenced by the Cartesian principle of simplicity. In this first part of the book, he describes how the reduction of the principles of a certain science gives them scope and makes them more \"fertile\" (22). Only by reducing principles can they be understood and related to each other. Ultimately, from a high \"vantage point\" (47) the philosopher can then view the vast labyrinth of sciences and the arts. d'Alembert then goes on to describe the tree of knowledge and the separation and simultaneous connections between memory, reason, and imagination. He later explains that the ideal universe would be one gigantic truth if one only knew how to view it as such; the assumption that knowledge has intrinsic unity can be seen as the foundation of the project of making the encyclopedia.\n\nPart two of the book provides the reader with an account of the progress of human knowledge in the sequence of memory, imagination and reason. This sequence is different from the one described in Part I, where the sequence is memory, reason, and imagination. It is the sequence a mind left in isolation or the original generation follows whereas in Part II he describes the progress of human knowledge in the centuries of enlightenment that started from erudition, continued with belles-lettres, and reached to philosophy.\n\nInstead of writing in terms of general ideas, d'Alembert provides the dates, places and people responsible for the progress of literary works since the Renaissance leading up to his date. One key example is René Descartes, who the author lauds as both an excellent philosopher and mathematician. His application of algebra to geometry, also known as the Cartesian coordinate system, provided an excellent tool for the physical sciences. He focuses on the importance of ancient knowledge and the ability to understand and build on it. Reference is made that concepts of knowledge could not have advanced as quickly had there not been ancient works to imitate and surpass. He also clarifies that there can be disadvantages to the ability to retrieve information from the past. Noted in the text is the lack of improvement in philosophy in comparison to other advancements due to the ignorant belief that ancient philosophy could not be questioned. d'Alembert claims that it would be ignorant to perceive that everything could be known about a particular subject. Additionally, he makes an attempt to show how individuals could free their minds from the yoke of authority. His use of deductive logic provides a more philosophical base for the existence of God. He makes clear that all sciences are restricted as much as can be to facts and that opinion influences science as little as possible. d'Alembert states that philosophy is far more effective at the analysis of our perceptions when the \"soul is in a state of tranquility\", when it is not caught up in passion and emotion (96). He believes that the philosopher is key in furthering the fields of science. The philosopher must be able to stand back and observe science and nature with an impartial eye. Furthermore, the importance of science and the advancements of such intellects as Francis Bacon, Isaac Newton, Descartes, John Locke and others are explained.\n\nPart three of the book concludes by detailing the important attributes of the writing of the \"Encyclopédie\" and by mentioning important contributors. d'Alembert discusses how the \"Encyclopédie\" is open to changes and additions from others since it is a work of many centuries. In addition, he states that an omission in an encyclopedia is harmful to its substance which differs from an omission in a dictionary. d'Alembert also states the three categories of the Encyclopédie, which are the sciences, the liberal arts and the mechanical arts. He states that it is important that these subcategories remain separate and concludes with the fact that society must judge the Preliminary Discourse to the \"Encyclopedia\" of Diderot.\n\nAt the end of the book, d'Alembert includes a detailed explanation of the system of human knowledge. This includes a chart entitled \"Figurative System of Human Knowledge\", which divides human understanding into its three constituents: memory, reason, and imagination. The chart then subdivides each of the three major categories into many other categories of human understanding. After his chart d'Alembert goes on to provide a detailed explanation of every division and subdivision apparent in his chart. The chart establishes a complex genealogy of knowledge and the way man has subdivided knowledge into the specific areas he feels they are applicable. It is important to remember that no one of these systems of human knowledge plays a more significant role than any of the others. These systems are designed around the idea that each uses the other two to build upon itself and further human knowledge as a whole. In context the chart shows a progression of knowledge through the ages, memory being the past, reason being the present, which examines and tries to either build or create new theories based on memory, and imagination which focuses on making new assumptions or theories about things in our human universe.\n\nThe method of the \"Discourse\" and the \"Encyclopedia\" marked a shift from Descartes’ rationalism toward the empiricism of John Locke and Isaac Newton. In the \"Discourse\", d’Alembert rejects a priori, indemonstrable speculations that lead to error and “intellectual despotism” and assumes a method based on hard facts and evidence (xxxv). A main objective of the “Encyclopedia” was not only to organize a collection of known information, but also to establish a cohesive method of gathering facts and principles yet to be discovered. D’Alembert acknowledges that “it is no less difficult to encompass the infinitely varied branches of human knowledge in a truly unified system,” (5), yet despite this seemingly formidable task, D’Alembert succeeds in fulfilling the purpose of the Encyclopedia, which was to gather all the facets of knowledge into one unified text, and to compile knowledge in a way that it could be standardized and compartmentalized into different categories. With this method, d’Alembert believed the \"philosophes\" could create a system of knowledge that would be unified and systematized, but not so rigid and strict as to impose limits on the search for new facts. A classic example of this systematized approach is the aforementioned \"figurative system of human knowledge\", which quantifies knowledge by dividing it into three categories: memory, reason, and imagination. The purpose of this was to place knowledge within general framework that could be added to or expounded upon if necessary. As Richard Schwab, who translated the text, states in the introduction, d’Alembert believed the “Discourse of method” would give mankind the power to independently shape and direct its own destiny. This method provided an answer to the growing demand of the intellectual community of Europe to create a synthesis of information based upon secular and naturalistic principles rather than upon a theological teleology (xxxi), and to disseminate knowledge throughout the entire population, no longer being restricted to the wealthy, academic elite.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40656464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40656464", "title": "Ramsar Palace", "text": "Ramsar Palace\n\nThe Ramsar Palace is one of the historic buildings and royal residences in Iran. The palace is in Ramsar, a city on the coast of the Caspian Sea.\n\nThe Ramsar Palace was established on a land of 60,000 square meters in 1937. The area was a historical garden in Ramsar. The palace was used as a summer residence by Reza Shah and then by his son, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi. Mohammad Reza Pahlavi and his second spouse Sorayya Esfendiari spent their honeymoon in the palace.\n\nThe Ramsar Palace is a compact and modest residence with square meters area although it lies on a land of 60,000 square meters. It is a rectangular building with a single story, and is decorated with works by famous Iranian sculptors and painters. The front line of the palace is made up of carved marble stones which were made by local artists. The common materials used are plaster and mirror in addition to marble. There is a reception hall or central hall in the place which has wooden floor.\n\nThe palace has been used as a museum since 2000. It is called the Ramsar Palace museum or the Caspian museum and is known by locals as “Tamashagah Khazar\".\n"}
{"id": "1603046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1603046", "title": "Residual (entertainment industry)", "text": "Residual (entertainment industry)\n\nResiduals are royalties that are paid to the actors, film or television directors, and others involved in making TV shows and movies in cases of reruns, syndication, DVD release, or online streaming release. Residuals are calculated and administered by industry trade unions like SAG-AFTRA, the Directors Guild of America, and the Writers Guild of America. The word is typically used in the plural form.\n\nTechnological advances gave rise to residual payments, and their evolution can be traced in terms of those technologies.\n\nResiduals were established in U.S. network radio. Live radio programs with nationwide audiences were generally performed either two or three times to account for different time zones between the east and west coasts of the United States. The performers were paid for each performance. After audio \"transcription disc\" technology became widely available in the late 1930s, it was initially used to make recordings to send to radio stations that were not connected to the live network. As sound quality improved, radio networks began using them for time-delaying west coast broadcasts, eventually eliminating the need for multiple performances. The performers were kept on standby and paid for a second performance in case there were technical problems. This established the precedent for residual payments from recorded performances.\n\nIn the early 1950s, a similar transition occurred in television. Initially, most television broadcasts were either live performances or broadcasts of older films originally produced for theaters. Kinescope recordings were made of live east coast performances so they could be broadcast several hours later on the west coast, which also made it possible to broadcast these shows later as many times as they wanted. In 1952, residual payments were extended to these television reruns, thanks in large part to Ronald Reagan, whose first term as president of the Screen Actors Guild (SAG) ran from 1947 to 1952. In 1953, the WGA negotiated residuals for up to five reruns for made-for-TV shows.\n\nThat said, film actors were still not paid residuals for reruns. As Americans increasingly watched TV at home instead of going out to the movies, movie attendance plummeted by over 65% between 1948 and 1959, studios were grappling with decreased revenues, and actors felt like they were being deprived of significant income that was owed to them. The studios, however, took a hardline stance on residuals for movie actors due to their shrinking revenue as well as the fact that if they paid residuals to actors, they would also have to pay directors and screenwriters as well.\n\nThis stalemate led SAG actors to re-elect Ronald Reagan as SAG President in fall of 1959. Reagan asked SAG for a strike authorization in February and the actors agreed on a work-stop date for March 7, 1960, Hollywood's first-ever industry-wide strike. Starting with Universal Pictures, studios ended up agreeing to film residuals, but only for movies made after 1960s. They would issue a one-time payout of $2.25 million for movies made between 1948 and 1960, and movies made before 1948 would not be eligible for any residuals. (Unrelated to residuals, Reagan also secured health insurance and pensions for SAG actors.) This upset older actors like Mickey Rooney, Glenn Ford and Bob Hope, who blamed Reagan and the SAG board for weak negotiating, but in April 1960 SAG voted to accept the offer and returned to work.\n\nIn 1988, WGA launched its longest strike, lasting 22 weeks, over a disagreement over residuals for TV shows broadcast in foreign countries. The new contract allowed writers two formulas for calculating foreign residuals: the existing formula ($4,400 maximum for a one-hour show) or the new formula (1.2% of the producer's foreign sales). On the other hand, domestic residuals were adjusted to take a sliding scale, which would incentivize producers to syndicate one-hour shows, whose revenue performance was poor, to independent TV stations.\n\nIn 2007, the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers (AMPTP), the industry bargaining group that deals with the trade unions, called for an end to the current residual payment system in response to the rise of online media. Instead, it proposed that residuals be pooled so the studios would recoup their costs paying the actors, directors, and writers based on a profit-based formula, which would solve the problem that residuals remain the same despite decreases in TV profits. Writers in the Writers Guild of America (WGA) decided to negotiate for higher residual payments. The AMPTP adamantly opposed extending residuals to online movie and TV show sales for at least three years, citing the need to \"adapt to the realities of the marketplace, the new demands from our audiences and new technologies\", while a WGA representative countered that they \"already had effective business models\".\n\nIn 2011, SAG-AFTRA, WGA, and DGA negotiations kept residuals for network primetime TV (considered \"among the most lucrative\" residuals) frozen at previous levels.\n\nResiduals are administered by the unions—SAG-AFTRA, the Directors Guild of America (DGA), and the Writers Guild of America (WGA)—for their members, who are paid between one and four months after the air date. According to SAG-AFTRA, it processes around 1.5 million residual checks a year. WGA receives between 100 and 5,000 residual checks a day. The DGA processes \"hundreds of thousands of checks\" a year, and in 2016 it processed $300 million in residuals for its members.\n\nResidual calculation is complex and depends on several variables, including guild membership, initial payment, time spent, type of production (e.g., network TV, DVD, ad-supported streaming, online purchases), and whether it involves a domestic or foreign market. Additionally, residuals change a lot: guilds negotiate new contracts with the AMPTP every three years, and residuals for primetime TV tend to increase every year because they are \"directly or indirectly keyed to salary minimums, which increase several percent per year\".\n\nIn acting, extras are generally not eligible, but stunt performers, puppeteers, singers, and actors with lines or scripted physical interactions with characters (\"supporting actors\" or \"day players\") are eligible. Principal performers generally get larger residuals. In fact, the more prominent the actor, the more generous the residual. Big stars like Tom Cruise, for example, would get a portion of DVD sales in addition to his \"regular\" residuals.\n\nAll \"credited\" writers are eligible for residuals, and the specific credit determines the amount of amount. For example, the \"written by\" credit yields a 100% residual allocation, \"screenplay/teleplay by\" yields a 75%, and \"adaptation by\" yields 10%.\n\nResidual payments can sometimes be very small if the role was small or the movie or show was not successful. For example, actor Jeff Cohen received a residual check for $0.67 after appearing in one episode of \"The Facts of Life\"; he took it to a former bar in Studio City called \"Maeve's Re$iduals\", which used to trade free drinks for any SAG-AFTRA residual checks for less than $1.\n\nBy contrast, Bob Gunton, who played Warden Norton in \"The Shawshank Redemption\", noted that the movie, one of the most-rerun films, generated \"close to six figures\" in residuals for him in 2004, ten years after the movie was released, and even as of 2014, that he continued to receive \"a very substantial income\".\n\nIn 2014, actor Lisa Kudrow of \"Friends\" was ordered to pay $1.6 million to her former manager, who argued that he was owed 5% of Kudrow's residuals earnings from work that he negotiated. Using figures that were publicly disclosed, one analyst estimated Kudrow's residuals to be at least $2.3 million, and likely much higher.\n\n"}
{"id": "4708125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4708125", "title": "Seize Quartiers", "text": "Seize Quartiers\n\nSeize Quartiers is a French phrase which literally means a person's \"sixteen quarters\", the coats of arms of their sixteen great-great-grandparents, which are typically accompanied by a five generation genealogy outlining the relationship between them and their descendant. They were used as a proof of nobility (\"the proof of the Seize Quartiers\") in Continental Europe beginning in the seventeenth century and achieving their highest prominence in the eighteenth. Possession of seize-quartiers guaranteed admission to any court in Europe, and bestowed many advantages. For example, Frederick the Great was known to make a study of the Seize Quartiers of his courtiers. They were less common in the British Isles, seventeenth-century Scottish examples being the most prevalent. \n\nAccording to Arthur Charles Fox-Davies in 1909, there were very few valid examples of Seize Quartiers among British families outside a small group of \"Roman Catholic aristocracy\", and after diligent searching, he could only find two Britons who were entitled to \"Trente Deux Quartiers\" (five generations of ancestors who were all armigerous). \n\nSome held the view that, once a family had achieved seize-quartiers, descendants in the male line would continue to be entitled to the benefits even if they continually married non-armigerous women. Their use is now generally limited to genealogical, heraldic, and antiquarian circles.\n\n"}
{"id": "41692795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41692795", "title": "Shweshwe", "text": "Shweshwe\n\nShweshwe () is a printed dyed cotton fabric widely used for traditional South African clothing. Originally dyed indigo, the fabric is manufactured in a variety of colours and printing designs characterised by intricate geometric patterns. Due to its timeless popularity, shweshwe has been described as the denim, or tartan, of South Africa.\n\nThe local name \"shweshwe\" is derived from the fabric's association with Lesotho's King Moshoeshoe I, also spelled \"Moshweshwe\". Moshoeshoe I was gifted with the fabric by French missionaries in the 1840s and subsequently popularised it.\n\nIt is also known as \"sejeremane\" in Sotho, and \"ujamani\" in Xhosa, after 19th century German and Swiss settlers who imported the \"blaudruck\" (\"blue print\") fabric for their clothing and helped entrench it in South African culture.\n\nShweshwe is traditionally used to make dresses, skirts, aprons and wraparound clothing. Shweshwe clothing is traditionally worn by newly married Xhosa women, known as \"makoti\", and married Sotho women. Xhosa women have also incorporated the fabric into their traditional ochre-coloured blanket clothing. Aside from traditional wear, shweshwe is used in contemporary South African fashion design for women and men from all ethnic groups, as well as for making accessories and upholstery. It is also used in the United States as a quilting fabric.\n\nShweshwe is manufactured with an acid discharge and roller printing technique on pure cotton calico. It is printed in widths of 90 cm, in all-over patterns and A-shaped skirt panels printed side by side. The fabric is manufactured in various colours including the original indigo, chocolate brown and red, in a large variety of designs including florals, stripes, and diamond, square and circular geometric patterns. The intricate designs are made using picotage, a pinning fabric printing technique rarely used by contemporary fabric manufacturers due to its complexity and expense, although the design effects have been replicated using modern fabric printing techniques.\n\nPreviously imported to South Africa from Europe, the trademarked fabric has been manufactured by Da Gama Textiles in the Zwelitsha township outside King William's Town in the Eastern Cape since 1982. In 1992 Da Gama Textiles bought the sole rights to Three Cats, the most popular brand of the fabric made by Spruce Manufacturing Co. Ltd in Manchester, and the original engraved copper rollers were shipped to South Africa. Da Gama Textiles has made shweshwe from cotton imported from Zimbabwe and grown locally in the Eastern Cape.\n\nThe local textile industry, including shweshwe production by Da Gama Textiles, has been threatened by competition from cheaper inferior quality imitations made locally and imported from China and Pakistan. The genuine product can be recognised by feel, smell, taste, sound, a solid colour from dyeing and trademark logos on the reverse side of the fabric, a smaller than average 90 cm fabric width and stiffness of the new fabric from traditional starching which washes out. As at November 2013, shweshwe production by Da Gama Textiles had reduced to five million metres per annum.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32617809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32617809", "title": "Spiral (arts alliance)", "text": "Spiral (arts alliance)\n\nSpiral was a collective of African-American artists initially formed by Romare Bearden, Charles Alston, Norman Lewis, and Hale Woodruff on July 5, 1963. It has since become the name of an exhibition, \"Spiral: Perspectives on an African-American Art Collective\".\n\nActive from the summer of 1963 through 1965, the group of artists met weekly to discuss the role of African-American artists in politics and the civil rights movement, as well as in the larger art world, and organized one group exhibition.\n\nThe group was initiated after artists Romare Bearden and Hale Woodruff invited other artists to discussions in Bearden's loft. Initially the group was concerned with logistical issues, such as obtaining buses to travel to the March on Washington in the summer of 1963. Soon afterward, their efforts turned toward aesthetic concerns, including what author Ralph Ellison called a \"new visual order.\" The members of the group were at varying stages in their careers when they first started meeting. While they did agree that their place, as artists, in the civil rights movement was important, they had differing views on what that place would be. The artists in the group were moved to come together and discuss their own engagement in the struggle for civil rights, even though each found engagement in a different way. The collective allowed for a shared response to the courage that defined the struggle for civil rights.\n\nIn the years leading up to the formation of Spiral, most of the artists were doing figurative work. Several started to experiment with abstraction as they grew as artists and began working more closely together. Bearden expressed the want of collaborating on a collage. But because the group used different techniques and mediums in their works, they decided that there would be other ways to impact the movement. Although the group was active for only a short time, Spiral proved to be important as an historical initiative, and was one of the first artist groups to call for the cultural community's involvement in social change.\n\nThe group's only exhibition was May 14 through June 5, 1965, titled \"First Group Showing: Works in Black and White\". The exhibition was in part a response to the trend of major art institutions to overlook the work of African-American artists. Bearden had suggested the exhibition's black-and-white theme because it comprised both socio-political and formal concerns.\n\nThe Spiral group was relatively ignored in much traditional art history since its demise. But interest in the group was rekindled by a group exhibition of the collective in Birmingham and New York in 2010-2011, and the associated catalogs. The exhibition looks at the way the Spiral collective came into its own during a period of American history full of unrest, and the varied visual responses of African-American artists.\n\n\nWoodruff suggested the name \"spiral\" in reference to the Archimedean spiral that \"moves outward embracing all directions, yet continually upward\". The name also represented the diversity of styles and interests represented by the work of the members as they \"sought to move toward common goals as individual artists and as African-American people\".\n\n\"Spiral: Perspectives on an African-American Art Collective\" was on view at the Birmingham Museum of Art from December 5, 2010 through April 17, 2011. It was organized by Emily G. Hanna and Amalia Amaki.\nThe exhibition was on view at the Studio Museum in Harlem, July 14 through October 23, 2011. Spiral: American Masters was on view at Evolve the Gallery (accompanied by a full catalog) from April 12 through May 24, 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2182776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2182776", "title": "Thrift store chic", "text": "Thrift store chic\n\nThrift store chic refers to a style of dressing where clothes are cheap and/or used. Clothes are often bought from thrift stores such as the Salvation Army, Goodwill, or Value Village. Originally popular among the hippies of the late 1960s, this fashion movement resurfaced during the mid-1980s among teenagers, and expanded into the 1990s with the growing popularity of such music and style influences including the grunge band Nirvana. Thrift store chic can be considered as an anti-fashion statement because it does not follow fashion trends and does not attempt to look expensive or new.\n\nThrift store chic is often composed of vintage T-shirts (striped tees and anything with vintage graphics, in particular), sweaters, flannel ‘lumberjack’ shirts, and worn and torn jeans. This laid back, nonchalant, and aloof look became fashionable and trendy without attempting to. Originally worn for a variety of reasons, which include an homage, or attempt to resurrect earlier styles, or even in protest to the exploitation of third world child workers in sweat shops. By the late 2000s many of the younger indie kids wore thrift store clothes primarily for its ironic anti-fashion connotations, attempting to look like a homeless person who can afford expensive electronics.\n\nThrift store chic is also popular among people who enjoy creating their own outfits from pieces of used clothing. This DIY (do-it-yourself) approach creates original articles of clothing that can be very personalized. For example, in the 1986 movie \"Pretty in Pink\", Molly Ringwald’s character, Andie Walsh, is fond of taking clothing from thrift stores and creating a unique and eclectic wardrobe. One very memorable article is the prom dress she creates, made from merging two separate dresses.\n\nDuring the 1990s, singers such as Kurt Cobain, Courtney Love, and Eddie Vedder promoted the look. Kurt Cobain’s style included uncoordinated and non-brand-name items of clothing that created the look of a carelessly cool grunge rock star. Clothes often had holes or tears in them and were worn in many layers, which hid the body. Cobain’s modest style contrasted from the aggressive and glamorous style of bands such as Guns N’ Roses. Fans of Nirvana found it easy to emulate his style, thus identifying themselves and the grunge movement. His thrift store style also reflected an ironic stance against corporate culture. Ironic, because his band had signed with the corporate music label Geffen Records.\n\nEntering the 2000s, this look because associated with musical scenes including indie rock and emo and bands such as Christopher Owen's \"Girls\" , Ariel Pink's Haunted Graffiti, and Seahorse Liberation Army, gradually spreading to the hipster movement. The hipster movement is popular among people in their 20s and 30s whose style attempts to reject mainstream trends. The hipster movement embraced thrift store chic because of its love for vintage items, especially clothing. Items that became popular for indie girls included flowery cotton dresses, cardigans, keffiyehs, and eyeglasses chosen deliberately for their unfashionable connotations. Hipster-thrift-store-chic embraces nostalgia and irony by combining old trucker-caps and vintage bowling t-shirts with worn luxury goods like leather jackets, old military dress uniforms as a protest against the war in Iraq, or used business wear, such as tweed cloth sportcoats.\n\nWith the stock market crash of 2008, shopping at thrift stores became more widely accepted. Bragging about how much an item of clothing cost was no longer about how expensive it was, but rather how cheap it cost.\nShowing off a six-hundred-dollar pair of shoes when people were losing their jobs was no longer tactful. In the United States, resale stores experienced an average of 35% increase in sales. Purchasing used clothing has lost much of its stigma also due to the growing environmental movement towards consumption.\nBecause textiles can be difficult to recycle (especially mixed blends), reusing clothing is considered environmentally friendly because it makes use of material that would have otherwise potentially ended up in a landfill.\n\nIn 2013, the Macklemore and Lewis's single \"Thrift Shop\" reached number 1 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart. The song glorifies shopping at thrift shops and denounces expensive brands, such as Gucci, as \"getting tricked by a business.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "669120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=669120", "title": "Visual communication", "text": "Visual communication\n\nVisual communication is the conveyance of ideas and information in forms that can be seen. Visual communication in part or whole relies on eyesight. Visual communication is a broad spectrum that includes signs, typography, drawing, graphic design, illustration, industrial design, advertising, animation, color, and electronic resources.\n\nThe evaluation of a good visual communication design is mainly based on measuring comprehension by the audience, not on personal aesthetic and/or artistic preference as there are no universally agreed-upon principles of aesthetics. Besides two dimensional images, there are other ways to express information visually - gestures and body language, animation (digital or analogue), and film. Visual communication by e-mail, a textual medium, is commonly expressed with ASCII art, emoticons, and embedded digital images.\n\nThe term 'visual presentation' is used to refer to the actual presentation of information through a visible medium such as text or images. Recent research in the field has focused on web design and graphically-oriented usability. Graphic designers also use methods of visual communication in their professional practice. Visual communication on the World Wide Web is perhaps the most important form of communication that takes place while users are surfing the Internet. When experiencing the web, one uses the eyes as the primary sense, and therefore the visual presentation of a website is very important for users to understand the message or of the communication taking place.The Eye of Horus is often referred to as the symbol of visual communication. It is said to be a representation of an eclipse, as the cornea around the pupil is like the cornea around the sun during a solar eclipse.\n\nAldous Huxley is highly regarded as one of the most prominent explorers of visual communication and sight-related theories. Becoming near-blind in his teen years as the result of an illness set the stage for what would make him one of the most intellectual people to have ever explored visual communication. His work includes important novels on the dehumanizing aspects of scientific progress, most famously \"Brave New World\" and \"The Art of Seeing\". He described \"seeing\" as being the sum of sensing, selecting, and perceiving. One of his most famous quotes is \"The more you see, the more you know.\"\n\nMax Wertheimer is said to be the father of Gestalt psychology. Gestalt means \"form\" or \"shape\" in German, and the study of Gestalt psychology show emphasis in simplicity, as its properties group visuals by similarity in shape or color and proximity. Looking for continuation, closure, and figure-ground principles in studied images is also intensively taught.\n\nStudents studying visual communication are taught the basic physics of light, anatomy and physiology of the eye, cognitive and perception theories, colour theories, Gestalt psychology, aesthetics, natural reading patterns, design principles, semiotics, persuasion, camera/filming actions and image-types, and so forth. Colleges for visual communications differ in their approach, but most combine theory and practice in some form.\n\nVisual communication takes place through pictures, graphs and charts, as well as through signs, signals and symbols. It may be used either independently or as an adjunct to the other methods of communication.\n\nVisual communication contains image aspects. The interpretation of images is subjective and to understand the depth of meaning, or multiple meanings, communicated in an image requires analysis. Images can be analysed though many perspectives, for example these six major perspectives presented by Paul Martin Lester:\n\nWhen a viewer has an opinion about an image based on their personal thoughts. Personal response depends on the viewer’s thoughts and values individually. This might be sometimes in conflict with cultural values. Also when a viewer has viewed an image with a personal perspective, it is hard to change the view of the image on the viewer, and the image can even be seen in other ways.\n\nAn image’s view can be arising from the history of the use media. Through times sort images have been changed, because the use of different (new) media. For example: The result of using the computer to edit images (e.g. Photoshop) is quite different when comparing images that are made and edited by craft.\n\nWhen the view of an image is influenced by the use of lights, position and the presentation of the image. The right use of light, position and presentation of the image can improve the view of the image. It makes the image looks better than the reality.\n\nFrom this perspective, the maker of the image, the viewer and the image itself must be responsible morally and ethically to the image. This perspective is also categorized in six categories: categorical imperative, utilitarianism, hedonism, golden mean, golden rule and veil of ignorance.\n\nSymbolization is an important definition for this perspective. Cultural perspective involves identity of symbols. The uses of words that are related with the image, the use of heroes in the image, etc. are the symbolization of the image. The cultural perspective can also be seen as the semiotic perspective.\n\nThe view of images in the critical perspective is when the viewers criticise the images, but the critics have been made in interests of the society, although an individual makes the critics. This way this perspective differs from the personal perspective.\n\nVisual aids are often used to help audiences of informative and persuasive speeches understand the topic being presented. Visual aids can play a large role in how the audience understands and takes in information that is presented. There are many different types of visual aids that range from handouts to PowerPoints. The type of visual aid a speaker uses depends on their preference and the information they are trying to present. Each type of visual aid has pros and cons that must be evaluated to ensure it will be beneficial to the overall presentation. Before incorporating visual aids into speeches, the speaker should understand that if used incorrectly, the visual will not be an aid, but a distraction. Planning ahead is important when using visual aids. It is necessary to choose a visual aid that is appropriate for the material and audience. The purpose of the visual aid is to \"enhance\" the presentation.\n\nObjects\n\nModels\n\nGraphs\n\nMaps\n\nTables\n\nPhotographs\n\nDrawings or diagrams\n\nChalkboards and whiteboards are very useful visual aids, particularly when more advanced types of media are unavailable. They are cheap and also allow for much flexibility.\nThe use of chalkboards or whiteboards is convenient, but they are not a perfect visual aid. Often, using this medium as an aid can create confusion or boredom. Particularly if a student who is not familiar with how to properly use visual aids attempts to draw on a board while they are speaking, they detract time and attention from their actual speech.\n\nA poster is a very simple and easy visual aid. Posters can display charts, graphs, pictures, or illustrations. The biggest drawback of using a poster as a visual aid is that often a poster can appear unprofessional. Since a poster board paper is relatively flimsy, often the paper will bend or fall over. The best way to present a poster is to hang it up or tape it to a wall.\n\nHandouts can also display charts, graphs, pictures, or illustrations. An important aspect of the use of a handout is that a person can keep a handout with them long after the presentation is over. This can help the person better remember what was discussed. Passing out handouts, however, can be extremely distracting. Once a handout is given out, it might potentially be difficult to bring back your audience’s attention. The person who receives the handout might be tempted to read what is on the paper, which will keep them from listening to what the speaker is saying. If using a handout, the speaker distributes the hand out right before you reference it. Distributing handouts is acceptable in a lecture that is an hour or two, but in a short lecture of five to ten minutes, a handout should not be used.\n\nA video can be a great visual aid and attention grabber, however, a video is not a replacement for an actual speech. There are several potential drawbacks to playing a video during a speech or lecture. First, if a video is playing that includes audio, the speaker will not be able to talk. Also, if the video is very exciting and interesting, it can make what the speaker is saying appear boring and uninteresting. The key to showing a video during a presentation is to make sure to transition smoothly into the video and to only show very short clips.\n\nThere are several types of projectors. These include slide projectors, PowerPoint presentations, overhead projectors, and computer projectors. Slide projectors are the oldest form of projector, and are no longer used. PowerPoint presentations are very popular and are used often. Overhead projectors are still used but are somewhat inconvenient to use. In order to use an overhead projector, a transparency must be made of whatever is being projected onto the screen. This takes time and costs money. Computer projectors are the most technologically advanced projectors. When using a computer projector, pictures and slides are easily taken right from a computer either online or from a saved file and are blown up and shown on a large screen. Though computer projectors are technologically advanced, they are not always completely reliable because technological breakdowns are not uncommon of the computers of today.\n\nPowerPoint presentations can be an extremely useful visual aid, especially for longer presentations. For five- to ten-minute presentations, it is probably not worth the time or effort to put together a PowerPoint. For longer presentations, however, PowerPoints can be a great way to keep the audience engaged and keep the speaker on track. A potential drawback of using a PowerPoint is that it usually takes a lot of time and energy to put together. There is also the possibility of a computer malfunction, which can mess up the flow of a presentation.\n\nSocial media is one of the most effective ways to communicate. The incorporation of text and images deliver messages quicker and more simplistic through social media platforms. A potential drawback can be there is limited access due to the internet access requirement and certain limitations to the number of characters and image size.\n"}
{"id": "9092317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9092317", "title": "While the Light Lasts and Other Stories", "text": "While the Light Lasts and Other Stories\n\nWhile the Light Lasts and Other Stories is a short story collection by Agatha Christie first published in the UK on 4 August 1997 by HarperCollins. It contains nine short stories.\n\nIn addition to detailed notes by Christie scholar Tony Medawar, the collection comprises the following stories:\n\n\nDetails of the first UK publication of the stories published in \"While the Light Lasts\" are as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6553285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6553285", "title": "World Soundtrack Academy", "text": "World Soundtrack Academy\n\nThe World Soundtrack Academy (WSA, or World Soundtrack Awards), launched in 2001 by the Film Fest Gent, is aimed at organizing and overseeing the educational, cultural and professional aspects of the art of film music, including the preservation of the history of the soundtrack and its worldwide promotion. The event takes place yearly in Ghent, Belgium with the ceremony usually at the Capitole Concert Hall. Usually, the Brussels Philharmonic conducted by maestro Dirk Brossé performs the awarded music at the ceremony.\n\nThe three main categories are:\n\n\nBrussels Philharmonic conducted by maestro Dirk Brossé performs fragments from several scores during the awards ceremony at the Kuipke in Ghent. Usually, the winner of the WSAward of Composer of the Year is invited to the ceremony's next edition to perform a concert with his music.\n\nSeminars for and with film music professionals, colloquia and concerts are also being organized next to the gala evening. There are also CD releases (with live concerts by Hans Zimmer, George Fenton and Georges Delerue) and the book \"Moving Music\" (by Lannoo - Tielt) that was published in 2005, in response to 20 years of film music at the film festival. In 2007, the CD series \"For the Record\" was launched, to shed light on the works of composers who had already performed at the festival. Hitherto, this series is made up of CDs by Craig Armstrong (2007), Mychael Danna (2008), Angelo Badalamenti (2009), Shigeru Umebayashi (2010), Gabriel Yared (2011) and Cliff Martinez (2014).\n\nThe festival is praised as one of the first cultural organizations to turn the spotlight on film music, which gave it the status of a pioneer. It has built up a strong reputation by organizing concerts, such as the very first concert of music by Hans Zimmer.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29575161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29575161", "title": "Zahner", "text": "Zahner\n\nZahner or A. Zahner Company is an architectural metal & glass company located in Kansas City, Missouri.\n\nZahner was founded in 1897 by Andrew Zahner as \"Eagle Cornice Works\", serving the region with decorative cornice works and repair. In 1913, the company became A. Zahner Sheet Metal Company, and over the course of the century would produce metal-work from industrial kitchen tables to metal work on buildings. In 1989, Andrew Zahner's great-grandson, L. William Zahner III became company president, and is credited with transforming the company from a regional sheet-metal contractor into a national architectural metals and facades producer. He also guided the company towards producing works by artists as well as architects.\n\nDuring the past thirty years, the company produced the exteriors for notable structures including the de Young Museum in San Francisco, California, the Experience Music Project in Seattle, Washington, and is producing the upcoming National September 11 Memorial & Museum in New York City. The firm is involved in the development of architectural metal systems as well as patinas and other surface treatments on metal.\n\nZahner holds five patents which pertain to the Architectural Metals industry Zahner President and CEO L. William Zahner serves as the Industry Liaison for the National Architectural Committee of SMACNA, and in 2006, was awarded the Copper Medal, Associazone Italiana di Metallurgia (AIM).\n\nOn January 21, 2011, companies Zahner and KME announced a joint venture, \"Zahner-KME\". The venture will offer engineering and building services to architects in the European Market.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
