{"id": "2038222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2038222", "title": "Academic audit", "text": "Academic audit\n\nIn academia, an audit is an educational term for the completion of a course of study for which no assessment of the performance of the student is made nor grade awarded. Some institutions may record a grade of \"audit\" to those who have elected not to receive a letter grade for a course in which they are typically awarded.\n\nIn this case, 'audit' indicates that the individual merely has received teaching, rather than being evaluated as having achieved a given standard of knowledge of the subject. The term 'audit' is Latin, translating as, 'he/she hears'. In other words, the student has experienced the course, but has not been assessed.\n\nSome students audit a class merely for enjoyment, including purposes of self-enrichment and academic exploration, with no need or desire of academic credit. Sometimes this technique is employed by individuals who wish to take a specific course without the risk of under-performance resulting in a poor or failing grade. This may be helpful when reviewing a long-unstudied subject, or when first beginning or exploring the study of a discipline where one has little experience or confidence.\n\nAuditing is generally an option at institutions of higher learning, such as colleges and universities, rather than grammar school or secondary school.\n\n"}
{"id": "44991791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44991791", "title": "Andrew D. Braden", "text": "Andrew D. Braden\n\nAndrew D. (Andy) Braden (1916 – 1993) was an American economist, accountant, and Professor of Accountancy at Case Western Reserve University, known for his work on accounting principles in the 1960s.\n\nBraden received his BS in Education from Kent State University, and obtained his Certified Public Accountant certificate. He started his academic career at the Case Western Reserve University in 1946 as instructor in Accounting. There he taught accountancy for more than 40 years, and became Professor of Accountancy and director of the Accounting and MBA programs. In 1962 he published his main work \"Accounting principles\", co-authored with Robert G. Allyn. In memory of his work Case Western initiated the Andrew D. Braden Professor of Accounting and Auditing-chair, and the Andrew D. Braden Fund.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42781158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42781158", "title": "Campus streaking", "text": "Campus streaking\n\nWhen and where campus streaking started is unknown. Streaking seems to have been well-established on some college campuses by the mid-1960s. For example, a 1967 article in the student paper at Carleton College in Minnesota laments: \"Examples of [Carleton's social problems] are the large number of departing female students, the rise of class spirit, low grades, streaking, destruction, drinking, and the popularity of rock dances.\" (At that time, streaking was already a tradition on the Minnesota campus, during January and February when temperatures were well below freezing.)\n\n\"Time\" magazine, in December 1973, called streaking \"a growing Los Angeles-area fad\" that was \"catching on among college students and other groups\". A letter writer responded, \"Let it be known that streakers have plagued the campus police at Notre Dame for the past decade\", pointing out that a group of students there sponsored a \"Streakers' Olympics\" in 1972.\n\nThe current record for the largest group streak was established at the University of Georgia, with 1,543 simultaneous streakers on March 7, 1974. The University of Colorado comes in second with 1,200 streakers, and the University of Maryland ranks third, with 553 naked students streaking three miles in March 1974. Erskine College claimed the highest \"per-capita\" streak, when 25% of its 600 students participated in a streaking party in 1974. It is also believed that an alumnus from Cornell College in Iowa has streaked the homecoming pep rally (estimated 1,200 attendees) 7 consecutive years without being caught. This individual streaked all four years he attended Cornell College and continued to streak for the 3 years following his graduation. \n\nThe trend of streaking across campus, started at Florida State University in the early 1960s.\n\nTwice a year, the night before the first exam, at midnight, a group of 40-70 streaks around the two main libraries on campus in order to let off some steam, have fun, and share the love of school-spirit. The students run around shouting things such as \"Study!\" and \"Express yourself!\" These encouraging streakers are watched by a massive crowd of no less than 500 students, and at the end, in an open area of the second library, they and the watching students participate in singing the Alma Mater. The name of this streak is The UL (Undergraduate Library) Streak, and was traditionally only held in the one library for which it is named. Streaking started in the 1960s, and Davis Library was added in the mid 1980s; shortly after it was built the streakers decided to spread their fiasco. Everyone is encouraged to join.\n\nOnce a year the annual \"Streak Hathway\" event occurs. Students run nude down Hathway St. T-shirts are sold to raise money for Breast Cancer research.\n\nStreaking at Carleton College is a custom that spans half a century and garners participation from all sectors of the student body. Naked runs are regular fixtures on campus. While officially unsanctioned, the events are widely accepted by the administration and generally supported by the student body. Streaking is common during major campus events. While streaking may occur anywhere on campus, common targets include midnight breakfast and the Libe (during reading days and often during the Silent Dance Party), the Arb, and certain convocations (i.e. the opening frisbee toss). Carleton streakers also hit the St. Olaf campus, and on at least one occasion, streaked through Buntrock Commons.\n\nThe men's and women's cross country teams are particularly well known for their streaking. Both teams have historically participated in \"naked laps\" at Stadium and welcome the first snow of each year with a naked run.\n\nThe streaking team at Carleton is named Nudels.\n\nThe University of California, Santa Cruz has an annual fall tradition known as First Rain, where students begin the run in Porter College and run naked around the campus during the first rainfall of the fall season, usually in October.\n\nThe University of California, Berkeley has a biannual tradition during each semester's final examinations in which students (typically those in student housing cooperatives) streak through Moffitt Library. Since the run takes place in the midst of finals, the library tends to have a higher student presence, thereby increasing the shocking effect.\n\nThe students of Centre College have incorporated \"Running the Flame\" into tradition and legend, making it a pseudo-requirement for graduation. Students run naked from their dorms to The Flame, a statue on campus, and back. A longer version called the \"Triathlon\", includes two campus fountains.\n\nStreaking became an annual campus tradition at the University of Chicago in 1983, during their \"Kuviasungnerk\" winter festival, to help students kick the winter blues. It is called the Polar Bear run. There are often more spectators than actual participants.\n\nDartmouth College has two streaking-related challenges: The Ledyard Challenge, in which students swim naked across the Connecticut River and run nude back across the bridge, and the Blue Light Challenge, in which streaking students attempt to press the alarm on every one of the campus's blue light emergency phones. Currently, a Thursday Night Streaking Club regularly streaks at various events and public places. Additionally, streaking is a common occurrence for large final exams. Streaking is employed to encourage friends in finals and introduce a sense of levity in the bleak times of finals week.\n\nStudents at Denison University in Granville, Ohio, started a tradition called Naked Week in 2003, usually held in the second half of February; hundreds of students run naked across a different quad every night, and each night has a different theme. Opening ceremonies begin with students running out of the library and across the academic quad (record of 39 naked runners in 2015).\n\nThe cross country team at Grove City boasts a long record of streaking activities that occur every spring before finals week. This tradition began well over 50 years ago and continues to this day. The night before exams at midnight is marked by a several mile streak around a campus loop. In past years students have been pursued by campus safety and local police officers, but few have ever been caught.\n\nHamilton College of New York has a Varsity Streaking Team, which, until recently, boasted an undefeated record. The team received positive coverage in the \"New York Times\" in 2004 after streaking twelve private colleges in the New England region. Other victories include Colgate University and Princeton University, the latter sparked by a challenge from that school's streaking squad. The Williams College \"Springstreakers\" defeated Hamilton in spring 2005: fifteen members of the Williams team made a full circuit of the Hamilton library the night before their final examinations began, streaking about 200 people and giving the Hamilton team their first loss. It was reported, however, that many Williams students had failed to remove all of their clothing, calling into question the final score.\n\nThe last night before final examinations at Harvard University sees undergraduates participating in a Primal Scream. Students disrobe and run a lap around Harvard Yard. This is done in both semesters, even during New England winters. Some of the streakers will dress in capes and masks, or top hat and tails, but their genitalia are still exposed. The walkways through which the streakers run are lined with spectators and the school's marching band plays beforehand to excite the crowd.\n\nStreaking at Lawrence University in Appleton, Wisconsin, has often been associated with the Great Midwest Trivia Contest. Also, the end of the year Senior Streak is a historic tradition that was suppressed in the early 2000s. The revival of the Senior Streak will be going on its thirteenth year in 2018.\n\nStudents of Lewis & Clark College began their naked mile tradition as a response to the arrest of some of its students at a downtown protest. Since then the mile has remained as a celebration of body image, encouraging students to come naked, in body paint, or wearing underwear/bra/whatever they feel comfortable in without question or judgment. Students continue to honor the legacy each year on prospective student weekend and running in solidarity through the school.\n\nLoyola Marymount University in Los Angeles, California boasts three traditions that a student must complete before graduation; climbing the school's belltower, sliding down a large \"LMU\" sign on the school's bluff, and streaking through the school's Sunken Gardens. This tradition dates back to Loyola University, the school's predecessor.\n\nIn 1986, the University of Michigan's Naked Mile celebrated the last day of class with a group streak across campus along an approximate one-mile path. At the height of its popularity in the late 1990s, between 500 and 800 students would participate, including several hundred females. Over 1,400 students participated one year and well over one thousand during another year. However, due to enforcement of public indecency laws and pressure from administration officials concerned about increasing spectator crowds and videotaping, participation declined. The last Naked Mile in earnest was run in 1999. By 2001, a mere 24 students participated signaling the effective end of the Naked MIle. Students were warned by college administrators that streakers would be arrested and required to register as a sex offender for life under Megan's Law.\n\nFrom the 1990s through to at least 2011, upperclasspersons enrolled at the Florida state honors college New College of Florida streaked the population of first-year students during its first week on campus. The streak took place immediately following the students' first meetings with their resident assistants, on their first day living in the expressly first-year portion of their residential campus. The streak was designed to appear to interrupt each of the three meetings as it passed through them, but in truth was arranged with the RAs each year. It was specifically intended that the streak take place in front of as many of the students' parents as possible, before they had finished helping their children move in and acclimate.\n\nTo celebrate the first snowfall of every year, the men of the Brule house in Gant hall streak through their courtyard, completing three laps. The tradition started sometime in the 70s and continues to this day. Each year hundreds of students gather to watch this event.\n\nDuring study days before finals week each semester, residents of Zahm Hall streak through the LaFortune Student Center. There have been attempts by Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) to prevent the event, but to date, such attempts have been unsuccessful.\n\nThere are records of streaking at Oberlin dating back to 1974. Several incidents of streaking in 2008 led to changes in policies regarding prospective students.\n\nEvery year at midnight on the Sunday night before finals students streak down Mifflin Road as a way to relieve pre-finals anxiety. The event is not publicized by the University but it is widely known among students when it is going to be held. In previous years part of the fun of the night was that the streakers would have to outrun the police (who would try to catch them to charge them with public indecency) however in 2009 this was not the case. This is because the previous year (2008) a case was made by a Penn State student that her crime was not public indecency due to the fact that everyone that is outside at this time knows what they are going to see and has consented to it, that all participants are over the age of 18, and that no children should be in this area and awake at this time. She won her case and since then police have acted much more like a peacekeeping force than anything. The event is highly enjoyable for all students with up to 50 or more participating each year and it is widely regarded as a time-honored tradition.\n\nPrinceton University has had a long tradition of streaking. The term \"running a streak\" was in use by 1966. The preferred time for streaking was after midnight on weekends when coed parties were ending, the course being down Prospect Avenue, across campus, and ending in the runner's dorm. A streaking incident in 1970 was meant as a one-time prank, but in time, streaking became a tradition of the sophomore class, and rules were drafted for the event. The tradition declined in the 1990s and the administration chose not to tolerate the event anymore; the Board of Trustees voted to ban the practice in 1999 because it was becoming dangerous and attracting too many outsiders.\n\nPicting is one of the traditions that takes place during Renn Fayre, the annual festival that marks the end of the academic year at Reed College. Students cover themselves in blue paint and run naked around the campus while another group of students attempt to spray the streakers with orange paint.\n\nBaker 13 is one of the most enduring student traditions at Rice University. At 10 p.m. on the 13th and 31st of every month (the 26th if a month without a 31st), a group of students runs around the entire campus wearing nothing but shaving cream. Although the event usually only attracts a small number of students, on Halloween and the last relevant day of the schoolyear (usually April 26), the event is very large, regularly attracting over 100 students. The event is so named because it begins and ends at Baker College.\n\nThe men's and women's rugby union teams at Swarthmore College engage in a streaking fundraiser each semester known as the \"Dash for Cash\", in which the team members run naked through Parrish Hall, the main administration building. Spectators are expected to bring money, which the streakers grab from their hands as they run by. The activity has been known to catch bystanders unawares, despite heavy publicity featuring the slogan, \"Bring money, or you're a pervert.\"\n\nThe Naked Quad Run was an annual tradition among the student body at Tufts University in Medford, Massachusetts. Every December, on the night of the final day of fall semester classes, students gathered during the evening to run naked around the Rez Quad several times. Because of injuries during previous years when the event was unsanctioned by the university, the administration designated the evening as the Nighttime Quad Reception and provides refreshments and entertainment. After an increase in incidents related to alcohol toxicity and a student arrest, the tradition was ended by Tufts University President Lawrence Bacow in March 2011.\n\nAt the University of Virginia, tradition holds that prior to graduating, students must run naked from the steps of the Rotunda and down the 740-foot Lawn to kiss the buttocks of a statue of Homer, before running back up the Lawn to peer through the keyhole of the Rotunda, which affords a view of the marble statue of the school's founder, Thomas Jefferson, before they retrieve their clothes. In 1995, a mass streak was organized to protest a police crackdown on the practice.\n\nThe students at Union College of New York City held midnight \"Pajama Parade\" events in 1862, 1914 and several times in the 1950s. The real streaking tradition, which was nationally popular since 1973, arrived at the campus in the 1990s in the form of a nocturnal lap around the Nott Memorial known as the \"Naked Nott Run.\"\n\nAt Wellesley College, students streak across Severance Green throughout the year. The streak is customarily followed by skinny dipping in Lake Waban, both of which have been listed as one of the 50 things a Wellesley student must do before she graduates.\n\nWheaton students practice a streak called \"The Kingdom Run\". Occasionally Billy Graham graduate students also participate. At the end of 2013, eight such characters participated in a streak.\n\nAt The College of William & Mary, students do a traditional \"triathlon\". The first part requires streaking the length of the Sunken Garden, a grassy area in the middle of campus. The other parts are swimming across the Crim Dell (a small pond) and jumping a wall and completing the maze in the Governor's Palace in nearby Colonial Williamsburg.\n\nAt UVM, students participate in the Naked Bike Ride at midnight at the end of each semester. They run, bike, unicycle, carry kayaks, push shopping carts, or pull sleds. Historically the bike ride has occurred around athletic campus. The topic of the Naked Bike Ride has been a touchy one among UVM police, who have tried several times to do away with it. In 2011, Interim President John Bramley ended school funding for the event. This resulted in the student body creating the UVM Green Caps, a group of student volunteers stationed around campus throughout the evening for the safety of students.\n\nAt Yale University, the prankster group The Pundits streaks through Bass Library at midnight on the first day of finals week, and many other students join in.\n\nAt the University of the Philippines, members of the Alpha Phi Omega fraternity streak around the campus in an annual event known as the Oblation Run. The run started in 1977 to protest the banning of the movie, \"Hubad na Bayani\", which depicted human rights abuses in the martial law era and continues as a protest action.\n\nIn 2011, the first nudist race took place at the University of Alicante (Spain). The aim of the race was to \"leave clothes behind\" and those garments were donated to an NGO (Proyecto Lázaro) that gives them a second use or recycle them to get funds for charitable funds.\n\nThe race took place once the classes period had finished and previous to the exam weeks.\n"}
{"id": "31191638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31191638", "title": "Charles T. Clotfelter", "text": "Charles T. Clotfelter\n\nCharles T. Clotfelter (born August 20, 1947) is an economist and the Z. Smith Reynolds Professor of Public Policy Studies and Professor of Economics and Law at the Sanford School of Public Policy at Duke University in Durham, North Carolina, where he has taught since 1979. He is also director of the Center for the Study of Philanthropy and Voluntarism at Duke and is a research associate for the National Bureau of Economic Research. His primary research interests include the economics of education, the nonprofit sector, tax policy and public finance.\n\nDuring his time at Duke, Clotfelter has served as vice provost for academic policy and planning (1983-1985), vice chancellor (1985-1988) and vice provost for academic programs (1993-1994). He also has served as president of the Southern Economic Association and was a Visiting Scholar at the Russell Sage Foundation for the 2005-06 year. He was ranked among the most influential scholars in the nation’s dialogue on education in the 2014 RHSU Edu-Scholar Public Influence List.\n\nPrior to teaching at Duke, Clotfelter taught at the University of Maryland from 1974 to 1979, spending his last year on leave as a Brookings Economic Policy Fellow at the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Tax Analysis.\n\nBorn in Birmingham, Alabama, Clotfelter grew up in Atlanta, Georgia. He graduated \"summa cum laude\" from Duke University with a B.A. in 1969. He then studied at Harvard University, receiving an M.A. in 1972 and PhD in economics in 1974.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32637063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32637063", "title": "Chinese Educational Mission", "text": "Chinese Educational Mission\n\nThe Chinese Educational Mission or CEM (1872–1881) was the pioneering but frustrated attempt by reform-minded officials of the Qing dynasty to educate a group of 120 Chinese students in the United States.\n\nIn 1871, Yung Wing, himself the first Chinese graduate of Yale University, persuaded the Chinese government to send supervised groups of young Chinese to the United States to study Western science and engineering. With the government's eventual approval, he organized what came to be known as the Chinese Educational Mission, which included 120 students, some under the age of ten, to study in the New England region of the United States beginning in 1872. The boys arrived in several detachments, lived with American families in Hartford, Connecticut, and other New England towns; and after graduating high school, went on to college, especially at Yale. When a new supervisory official arrived, he found that they had adopted many American customs, such as playing baseball, and felt they were neglecting their Chinese heritage and becoming \"denationalized.\" In addition, external pressures such as the US government's refusal in 1878 to permit students to attend the Military Academy at West Point and the Naval Academy at Annapolis in contravention of the Burlingame Treaty of 1868 called the whole purpose of the mission, the acquisition of Western military expertise, into question. Due to internal and external pressures, the mission was ended in 1881. When the boys returned to China, they were confined and interrogated.\n\nThe influential official Huang Zunxian wrote a poem which admitted that the students had lived luxurious lives and become Americanized, but lamented the lost opportunity:\n\nMany of the students later returned to China and made significant contributions to China's civil services, engineering, and the sciences. Prominent students on the mission included Liang Cheng, Tang Shaoyi, Tsai Ting Kan (Cai Tinggan), and Tien You Jeme (Zhan Tianyou).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13062340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13062340", "title": "Coahoma Agricultural High School", "text": "Coahoma Agricultural High School\n\nCoahoma Agricultural High School is a public, secondary school in unincorporated Coahoma County, Mississippi (USA). It is located on the campus of Coahoma Community College, approximately north of Clarksdale. Designated as a part of the Coahoma Agricultural High School District (ASD #1402), and operated by the community college, is one of two independently functioning agricultural high schools in the state of Mississippi. The school has its own facilities, instructional and administrative personnel, and student programs. It shares library facilities with the college.\n\nThe school operates the Coahoma Early College High School (CECHS) program. On July 1, 2018, the original Coahoma County Agricultural High School will be dissolved, with the Coahoma Early College High School taking its place.\n\nCoahoma County Agricultural High School was established in 1924. It was one of the first agricultural high schools for Blacks in Mississippi. A junior college curriculum was added in 1949 and the institution's name was changed to Coahoma Junior College and Agricultural High School. The school was desegregated in 1965, although the student body has remained mostly and in recent years, exclusively African American.\n\nCoahoma Junior College was removed from the title of Coahoma County Agricultural High School in 1975 and in 1981, the school began operating separately from the Coahoma County School District and dropped the word \"county\" from its name.\n\nA 2012 report by Augenblick, Palaich and Associates suggested changing the school's focus to an early college school and/or merging it. It stated that the school's academic performance was below the state average and that the school no longer had a focus on agriculture.\n\nOn July 1, 2018, the original Coahoma County Agricultural High School will be dissolved, with the Coahoma Early College High School taking its place. Governor of Mississippi Phil Bryant signed into law Senate Bill 2501, which will require this change in the school, in May 2016.\n\nA majority of the Coahoma AHS student body comes from the towns of Friars Point, Coahoma, Lula, and Jonestown – all part of the Coahoma County School District. A limited number of students from the Clarksdale Municipal School District opt to attend Coahoma AHS instead of Clarksdale High School.\n\nIn the 2014-15 school year, the school enrolled 267 black students, 1 Hispanic, and no white students.\n\nThe president of Coahoma Community College also serves as superintendent of the Coahoma Agricultural High School. The same board of trustees governs both the high school and community college.\n\nIn addition to the superintendent and board of trustees, Coahoma AHS has the same administrative personnel common in other public high schools, including a principal and assistant principal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58847836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58847836", "title": "Eddie Dennis", "text": "Eddie Dennis\n\nEddie Dennis (born 22 March 1986) is an Welsh professional wrestler, and former head teacher from Ammanford, Carmarthenshire. Originally a mathematics teacher, Dennis retired from teaching to wrestle full time, most notably for the NXT UK brand for the World Wrestling Entertainment. Dennis is a two time heavyweight champion, winning the Attack! championship, and the King of Chaos championship.\n\nDennis began his wrestling career in 2008, whilst working full time as a mathematics teacher in Cardiff, and later Berkshire. In 2016, Dennis left his job as a head teacher to become a full-time wrestler. Despite an unsuccessful first try-out with the WWE in 2017, he later would wrestle on the first NXT UK show, in the Plymouth Pavilions.\n\nDennis would debut for the WWE against Sid Scala.\n\nDennis is known for having also worked at notable promotions in the UK, including Attack! Pro Wrestling, Pro Wrestling Pride, Revolution Pro Wrestling, and PROGRESS Wrestling. Dennis headlined PROGRESS Wrestling 76 against Mark Andrews in a Tables, Ladders, and Chairs match.\n\nDennis is the co-founder of \"Defend Indy Wrestling\", a clothing brand for independent wrestling fans. Inspired by the \"DEFEND Pop Punk\" message propagated by American band Man Overboard, Dennis created the brand in 2011 with fellow British wrestlers Pete Dunne and Mark Andrews, producing t-shirts, hoodies and other accessories.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9252", "title": "Education", "text": "Education\n\nEducation is the process of facilitating learning, or the acquisition of knowledge, skills, values, beliefs, and habits. Educational methods include storytelling, discussion, teaching, training, and directed research. Education frequently takes place under the guidance of educators, but learners may also educate themselves. Education can take place in formal or informal settings and any experience that has a formative effect on the way one thinks, feels, or acts may be considered educational. The methodology of teaching is called pedagogy.\n\nFormal education is commonly divided formally into such stages as preschool or kindergarten, primary school, secondary school and then college, university, or apprenticeship.\n\nA right to education has been recognized by some governments and the United Nations. In most regions, education is compulsory up to a certain age.\n\nEtymologically, the word \"education\" is derived from the Latin \"ēducātiō\" (\"A breeding, a bringing up, a rearing\") from \"ēducō\" (\"I educate, I train\") which is related to the homonym \"ēdūcō\" (\"I lead forth, I take out; I raise up, I erect\") from \"ē-\" (\"from, out of\") and \"dūcō\" (\"I lead, I conduct\").\n\nEducation began in prehistory, as adults trained the young in the knowledge and skills deemed necessary in their society. In pre-literate societies, this was achieved orally and through imitation. Story-telling passed knowledge, values, and skills from one generation to the next. As cultures began to extend their knowledge beyond skills that could be readily learned through imitation, formal education developed. Schools existed in Egypt at the time of the Middle Kingdom.\n\nPlato founded the Academy in Athens, the first institution of higher learning in Europe. The city of Alexandria in Egypt, established in 330 BCE, became the successor to Athens as the intellectual cradle of Ancient Greece. There, the great Library of Alexandria was built in the 3rd century BCE. European civilizations suffered a collapse of literacy and organization following the fall of Rome in CE 476.\n\nIn China, Confucius (551–479 BCE), of the State of Lu, was the country's most influential ancient philosopher, whose educational outlook continues to influence the societies of China and neighbours like Korea, Japan, and Vietnam. Confucius gathered disciples and searched in vain for a ruler who would adopt his ideals for good governance, but his Analects were written down by followers and have continued to influence education in East Asia into the modern era.\n\nThe Aztecs also had a well-developed theory about education, which has an equivalent word in Nahuatl called \"tlacahuapahualiztli.\" It means \"the art of raising or educating a person\" or \"the art of strengthening or bringing up men.\" This was a broad conceptualization of education, which prescribed that it begins at home, supported by formal schooling, and reinforced by community living. Historians cite that formal education was mandatory for everyone regardless of social class and gender. There was also the word \"neixtlamachiliztli\", which is \"the act of giving wisdom to the face.\" These concepts underscore a complex set of educational practices, which was oriented towards communicating to the next generation the experience and intellectual heritage of the past for the purpose of individual development and his integration into the community.\n\nAfter the Fall of Rome, the Catholic Church became the sole preserver of literate scholarship in Western Europe. The church established cathedral schools in the Early Middle Ages as centres of advanced education. Some of these establishments ultimately evolved into medieval universities and forebears of many of Europe's modern universities. During the High Middle Ages, Chartres Cathedral operated the famous and influential Chartres Cathedral School. The medieval universities of Western Christendom were well-integrated across all of Western Europe, encouraged freedom of inquiry, and produced a great variety of fine scholars and natural philosophers, including Thomas Aquinas of the University of Naples, Robert Grosseteste of the University of Oxford, an early expositor of a systematic method of scientific experimentation, and Saint Albert the Great, a pioneer of biological field research. Founded in 1088, the University of Bologne is considered the first, and the oldest continually operating university.\n\nElsewhere during the Middle Ages, Islamic science and mathematics flourished under the Islamic caliphate which was established across the Middle East, extending from the Iberian Peninsula in the west to the Indus in the east and to the Almoravid Dynasty and Mali Empire in the south.\n\nThe Renaissance in Europe ushered in a new age of scientific and intellectual inquiry and appreciation of ancient Greek and Roman civilizations. Around 1450, Johannes Gutenberg developed a printing press, which allowed works of literature to spread more quickly. The European Age of Empires saw European ideas of education in philosophy, religion, arts and sciences spread out across the globe. Missionaries and scholars also brought back new ideas from other civilizations – as with the Jesuit China missions who played a significant role in the transmission of knowledge, science, and culture between China and Europe, translating works from Europe like Euclid's Elements for Chinese scholars and the thoughts of Confucius for European audiences. The Enlightenment saw the emergence of a more secular educational outlook in Europe.\n\nIn most countries today, full-time education, whether at school or otherwise, is compulsory for all children up to a certain age. Due to this the proliferation of compulsory education, combined with population growth, UNESCO has calculated that in the next 30 years more people will receive formal education than in all of human history thus far.\n\nFormal education occurs in a structured environment whose explicit purpose is teaching students. Usually, formal education takes place in a school environment with classrooms of multiple students learning together with a trained, certified teacher of the subject. Most school systems are designed around a set of values or ideals that govern all educational choices in that system. Such choices include curriculum, organizational models, design of the physical learning spaces (e.g. classrooms), student-teacher interactions, methods of assessment, class size, educational activities, and more.\n\nPreschools provide education from ages approximately three to seven, depending on the country when children enter primary education. These are also known as nursery schools and as kindergarten, except in the US, where kindergarten is a term often used to describe the earliest levels of primary education. Kindergarten \"provide[s] a child-centred, preschool curriculum for three- to seven-year-old children that aim[s] at unfolding the child's physical, intellectual, and moral nature with balanced emphasis on each of them.\"\n\nPrimary (or elementary) education consists of the first five to seven years of formal, structured education. In general, primary education consists of six to eight years of schooling starting at the age of five or six, although this varies between, and sometimes within, countries. Globally, around 89% of children aged six to twelve are enrolled in primary education, and this proportion is rising. Under the Education For All programs driven by UNESCO, most countries have committed to achieving universal enrollment in primary education by 2015, and in many countries, it is compulsory. The division between primary and secondary education is somewhat arbitrary, but it generally occurs at about eleven or twelve years of age. Some education systems have separate middle schools, with the transition to the final stage of secondary education taking place at around the age of fourteen. Schools that provide primary education, are mostly referred to as \"primary schools \"or \"elementary schools\". Primary schools are often subdivided into infant schools and junior school.\n\nIn India, for example, compulsory education spans over twelve years, with eight years of elementary education, five years of primary schooling and three years of upper primary schooling. Various states in the republic of India provide 12 years of compulsory school education based on a national curriculum framework designed by the National Council of Educational Research and Training.\n\nIn most contemporary educational systems of the world, secondary education comprises the formal education that occurs during adolescence. It is characterized by transition from the typically compulsory, comprehensive primary education for minors, to the optional, selective tertiary, \"postsecondary\", or \"higher\" education (e.g. university, vocational school) for adults. Depending on the system, schools for this period, or a part of it, may be called secondary or high schools, gymnasiums, lyceums, middle schools, colleges, or vocational schools. The exact meaning of any of these terms varies from one system to another. The exact boundary between primary and secondary education also varies from country to country and even within them but is generally around the seventh to the tenth year of schooling.\n\nSecondary education occurs mainly during the teenage years. In the United States, Canada, and Australia, primary and secondary education together are sometimes referred to as K-12 education, and in New Zealand Year 1–13 is used. The purpose of secondary education can be to give common knowledge, to prepare for higher education, or to train directly in a profession.\n\nSecondary education in the United States did not emerge until 1910, with the rise of large corporations and advancing technology in factories, which required skilled workers. In order to meet this new job demand, high schools were created, with a curriculum focused on practical job skills that would better prepare students for white collar or skilled blue collar work. This proved beneficial for both employers and employees, since the improved human capital lowered costs for the employer, while skilled employees received higher wages.\n\nSecondary education has a longer history in Europe, where grammar schools or academies date from as early as the 16th century, in the form of public schools, fee-paying schools, or charitable educational foundations, which themselves date even further back.\n\nCommunity colleges offer another option at this transitional stage of education. They provide nonresidential junior college courses to people living in a particular area.\n\nHigher education, also called tertiary, third stage, or postsecondary education, is the non-compulsory educational level that follows the completion of a school such as a high school or secondary school. Tertiary education is normally taken to include undergraduate and postgraduate education, as well as vocational education and training. Colleges and universities mainly provide tertiary education. Collectively, these are sometimes known as tertiary institutions. Individuals who complete tertiary education generally receive certificates, diplomas, or academic degrees.\n\nHigher education typically involves work towards a degree-level or foundation degree qualification. In most developed countries, a high proportion of the population (up to 50%) now enter higher education at some time in their lives. Higher education is therefore very important to national economies, both as a significant industry in its own right and as a source of trained and educated personnel for the rest of the economy.\n\nUniversity education includes teaching, research, and social services activities, and it includes both the undergraduate level (sometimes referred to as tertiary education) and the graduate (or postgraduate) level (sometimes referred to as graduate school). Some universities are composed of several colleges.\n\nOne type of university education is a liberal arts education, which can be defined as a \"college or university curriculum aimed at imparting broad general knowledge and developing general intellectual capacities, in contrast to a professional, vocational, or technical curriculum.\" Although what is known today as liberal arts education began in Europe, the term \"liberal arts college\" is more commonly associated with institutions in the United States such as Williams College or Barnard College.\n\nVocational education is a form of education focused on direct and practical training for a specific trade or craft. Vocational education may come in the form of an apprenticeship or internship as well as institutions teaching courses such as carpentry, agriculture, engineering, medicine, architecture and the arts.\n\nIn the past, those who were disabled were often not eligible for public education. Children with disabilities were repeatedly denied an education by physicians or special tutors. These early physicians (people like Itard, Seguin, Howe, Gallaudet) set the foundation for special education today. They focused on individualized instruction and functional skills. In its early years, special education was only provided to people with severe disabilities, but more recently it has been opened to anyone who has experienced difficulty learning.\n\nWhile considered \"alternative\" today, most alternative systems have existed since ancient times. After the public school system was widely developed beginning in the 19th century, some parents found reasons to be discontented with the new system. Alternative education developed in part as a reaction to perceived limitations and failings of traditional education. A broad range of educational approaches emerged, including alternative schools, self learning, homeschooling, and unschooling. Example alternative schools include Montessori schools, Waldorf schools (or Steiner schools), Friends schools, Sands School, Summerhill School, Walden's Path, The Peepal Grove School, Sudbury Valley School, Krishnamurti schools, and open classroom schools. Charter schools are another example of alternative education, which have in the recent years grown in numbers in the US and gained greater importance in its public education system.\n\nIn time, some ideas from these experiments and paradigm challenges may be adopted as the norm in education, just as Friedrich Fröbel's approach to early childhood education in 19th-century Germany has been incorporated into contemporary kindergarten classrooms. Other influential writers and thinkers have included the Swiss humanitarian Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi; the American transcendentalists Amos Bronson Alcott, Ralph Waldo Emerson, and Henry David Thoreau; the founders of progressive education, John Dewey and Francis Parker; and educational pioneers such as Maria Montessori and Rudolf Steiner, and more recently John Caldwell Holt, Paul Goodman, Frederick Mayer, George Dennison, and Ivan Illich.\n\nIndigenous education refers to the inclusion of indigenous knowledge, models, methods, and content within formal and non-formal educational systems. Often in a post-colonial context, the growing recognition and use of indigenous education methods can be a response to the erosion and loss of indigenous knowledge and language through the processes of colonialism. Furthermore, it can enable indigenous communities to \"reclaim and revalue their languages and cultures, and in so doing, improve the educational success of indigenous students.\"\n\nInformal learning is one of three forms of learning defined by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). Informal learning occurs in a variety of places, such as at home, work, and through daily interactions and shared relationships among members of society. For many learners, this includes language acquisition, cultural norms, and manners.\n\nIn informal learning, there is often a reference person, a peer or expert, to guide the learner. If learners have a personal interest in what they are informally being taught, learners tend to expand their existing knowledge and conceive new ideas about the topic being learned. For example, a museum is traditionally considered an informal learning environment, as there is room for free choice, a diverse and potentially non-standardized range of topics, flexible structures, socially rich interaction, and no externally imposed assessments.\n\nWhile informal learning often takes place outside educational establishments and does not follow a specified curriculum, it can also occur within educational settings and even during formal learning situations. Educators can structure their lessons to directly utilize their students informal learning skills within the education setting.\n\nIn the late 19th century, education through play began to be recognized as making an important contribution to child development. In the early 20th century, the concept was broadened to include young adults but the emphasis was on physical activities. L.P. Jacks, also an early proponent of lifelong learning, described education through recreation: \"A master in the art of living draws no sharp distinction between his work and his play, his labour and his leisure, his mind and his body, his education and his recreation. He hardly knows which is which. He simply pursues his vision of excellence through whatever he is doing and leaves others to determine whether he is working or playing. To himself, he always seems to be doing both. Enough for him that he does it well.\" Education through recreation is the opportunity to learn in a seamless fashion through all of life's activities. The concept has been revived by the University of Western Ontario to teach anatomy to medical students.\n\nAutodidacticism (also autodidactism) is a term used to describe self-directed learning. One may become an autodidact at nearly any point in one's life. Notable autodidacts include Abraham Lincoln (U.S. president), Srinivasa Ramanujan (mathematician), Michael Faraday (chemist and physicist), Charles Darwin (naturalist), Thomas Alva Edison (inventor), Tadao Ando (architect), George Bernard Shaw (playwright), Frank Zappa (composer, recording engineer, film director), and Leonardo da Vinci (engineer, scientist, mathematician).\n\nMany large university institutions are now starting to offer free or almost free full courses such as Harvard, MIT and Berkeley teaming up to form edX. Other universities offering open education are prestigious private universities such as Stanford, Princeton, Duke, Johns Hopkins, the University of Pennylvania, and Caltech, as well as notable public universities including Tsinghua, Peking, Edinburgh, University of Michigan, and University of Virginia.\n\nOpen education has been called the biggest change in the way people learn since the printing press. Despite favourable studies on effectiveness, many people may still desire to choose traditional campus education for social and cultural reasons.\n\nMany open universities are working to have the ability to offer students standardized testing and traditional degrees and credentials.\n\nThe conventional merit-system degree is currently not as common in open education as it is in campus universities, although some open universities do already offer conventional degrees such as the Open University in the United Kingdom. Presently, many of the major open education sources offer their own form of certificate. Due to the popularity of open education, these new kind of academic certificates are gaining more respect and equal \"academic value\" to traditional degrees.\n\nOut of 182 colleges surveyed in 2009 nearly half said tuition for online courses was higher than for campus-based ones.\n\nA recent meta-analysis found that online and blended educational approaches had better outcomes than methods that used solely face-to-face interaction.\n\nThe education sector or education system is a group of institutions (ministries of education, local educational authorities, teacher training institutions, schools, universities, etc.) whose primary purpose is to provide education to children and young people in educational settings. It involves a wide range of people (curriculum developers, inspectors, school principals, teachers, school nurses, students, etc.). These institutions can vary according to different contexts.\n\nSchools deliver education, with support from the rest of the education system through various elements such as education policies and guidelines – to which school policies can refer – curricula and learning materials, as well as pre- and in-service teacher training programmes. The school environment – both physical (infrastructures) and psychological (school climate) – is also guided by school policies that should ensure the well-being of students when they are in school. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has found that schools tend to perform best when principals have full authority and responsibility for ensuring that students are proficient in core subjects upon graduation. They must also seek feedback from students for quality-assurance and improvement. Governments should limit themselves to monitoring student proficiency.\n\nThe education sector is fully integrated into society, through interactions with a large number of stakeholders and other sectors. These include parents, local communities, religious leaders, NGOs, stakeholders involved in health, child protection, justice and law enforcement (police), media and political leadership.\n\nSeveral UN agencies have asserted that comprehensive sexuality education should be integrated into school curriculum.\n\nThe 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, adopted by the United Nations (UN) General Assembly in September 2015, calls for a new vision to address the environmental, social and economic concerns facing the world today. The Agenda includes 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including SDG 4 on education.\n\nSince 1909, the ratio of children in the developing world attending school has increased. Before then, a small minority of boys attended school. By the start of the 21st century, the majority of all children in most regions of the world attended school.\n\nUniversal Primary Education is one of the eight international Millennium Development Goals, towards which progress has been made in the past decade, though barriers still remain. Securing charitable funding from prospective donors is one particularly persistent problem. Researchers at the Overseas Development Institute have indicated that the main obstacles to funding for education include conflicting donor priorities, an immature aid architecture, and a lack of evidence and advocacy for the issue. Additionally, Transparency International has identified corruption in the education sector as a major stumbling block to achieving Universal Primary Education in Africa. Furthermore, demand in the developing world for improved educational access is not as high as foreigners have expected. Indigenous governments are reluctant to take on the ongoing costs involved. There is also economic pressure from some parents, who prefer their children to earn money in the short term rather than work towards the long-term benefits of education.\n\nA study conducted by the UNESCO International Institute for Educational Planning indicates that stronger capacities in educational planning and management may have an important spill-over effect on the system as a whole. Sustainable capacity development requires complex interventions at the institutional, organizational and individual levels that could be based on some foundational principles:\n\nNearly every country now has Universal Primary Education.\n\nSimilarities – in systems or even in ideas – that schools share internationally have led to an increase in international student exchanges. The European Socrates-Erasmus Program facilitates exchanges across European universities. The Soros Foundation provides many opportunities for students from central Asia and eastern Europe. Programs such as the International Baccalaureate have contributed to the internationalization of education. The global campus online, led by American universities, allows free access to class materials and lecture files recorded during the actual classes.\n\nThe Programme for International Student Assessment and the International Association for the Evaluation of Educational Achievement objectively monitor and compare the proficiency of students from a wide range of different nations.\n\nTechnology plays an increasingly significant role in improving access to education for people living in impoverished areas and developing countries. Charities like One Laptop per Child are dedicated to providing infrastructures through which the disadvantaged may access educational materials.\n\nThe OLPC foundation, a group out of MIT Media Lab and supported by several major corporations, has a stated mission to develop a $100 laptop for delivering educational software. The laptops were widely available as of 2008. They are sold at cost or given away based on donations.\n\nIn Africa, the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) has launched an \"e-school program\" to provide all 600,000 primary and high schools with computer equipment, learning materials and internet access within 10 years. An International Development Agency project called nabuur.com, started with the support of former American President Bill Clinton, uses the Internet to allow co-operation by individuals on issues of social development.\n\nIndia is developing technologies that will bypass land-based telephone and Internet infrastructure to deliver distance learning directly to its students. In 2004, the Indian Space Research Organisation launched EDUSAT, a communications satellite providing access to educational materials that can reach more of the country's population at a greatly reduced cost.\n\nResearch into LCPS (low-cost private schools) found that over 5 years to July 2013, debate around LCPSs to achieving Education for All (EFA) objectives was polarized and finding growing coverage in international policy. The polarization was due to disputes around whether the schools are affordable for the poor, reach disadvantaged groups, provide quality education, support or undermine equality, and are financially sustainable.\nThe report examined the main challenges encountered by development organizations which support LCPSs. Surveys suggest these types of schools are expanding across Africa and Asia. This success is attributed to excess demand. These surveys found concern for:\n\nThe report showed some cases of successful voucher and subsidy programs; evaluations of international support to the sector are not widespread. Addressing regulatory ineffectiveness is a key challenge. Emerging approaches stress the importance of understanding the political economy of the market for LCPS, specifically how relationships of power and accountability between users, government, and private providers can produce better education outcomes for the poor.\n\nEducational psychology is the study of how humans learn in educational settings, the effectiveness of educational interventions, the psychology of teaching, and the social psychology of schools as organizations. Although the terms \"educational psychology\" and \"school psychology\" are often used interchangeably, researchers and theorists are likely to be identified as , whereas practitioners in schools or school-related settings are identified as school psychologists. Educational psychology is concerned with the processes of educational attainment in the general population and in sub-populations such as gifted children and those with specific disabilities.\n\nEducational psychology can in part be understood through its relationship with other disciplines. It is informed primarily by psychology, bearing a relationship to that discipline analogous to the relationship between medicine and biology. Educational psychology, in turn, informs a wide range of specialties within educational studies, including instructional design, educational technology, curriculum development, organizational learning, special education and classroom management. Educational psychology both draws from and contributes to cognitive science and the learning sciences. In universities, departments of educational psychology are usually housed within faculties of education, possibly accounting for the lack of representation of educational psychology content in introductory psychology textbooks (Lucas, Blazek, & Raley, 2006).\n\nIntelligence is an important factor in how the individual responds to education. Those who have higher intelligence tend to perform better at school and go on to higher levels of education. This effect is also observable in the opposite direction, in that education increases measurable intelligence. Studies have shown that while educational attainment is important in predicting intelligence in later life, intelligence at 53 is more closely correlated to intelligence at 8 years old than to educational attainment.\n\nThere has been much interest in learning modalities and styles over the last two decades. The most commonly employed learning modalities are:\n\nOther commonly employed modalities include musical, interpersonal, verbal, logical, and intrapersonal.\n\nDunn and Dunn focused on identifying relevant stimuli that may influence learning and manipulating the school environment, at about the same time as Joseph Renzulli recommended varying teaching strategies. Howard Gardner identified a wide range of modalities in his Multiple Intelligences theories. The Myers-Briggs Type Indicator and Keirsey Temperament Sorter, based on the works of Jung, focus on understanding how people's personality affects the way they interact personally, and how this affects the way individuals respond to each other within the learning environment. The work of David Kolb and Anthony Gregorc's Type Delineator follows a similar but more simplified approach.\n\nSome theories propose that all individuals benefit from a variety of learning modalities, while others suggest that individuals may have preferred learning styles, learning more easily through visual or kinesthetic experiences. A consequence of the latter theory is that effective teaching should present a variety of teaching methods which cover all three learning modalities so that different students have equal opportunities to learn in a way that is effective for them. Guy Claxton has questioned the extent that learning styles such as Visual, Auditory and Kinesthetic(VAK) are helpful, particularly as they can have a tendency to label children and therefore restrict learning. Recent research has argued, \"there is no adequate evidence base to justify incorporating learning styles assessments into general educational practice.\"\n\nEducational neuroscience is an emerging scientific field that brings together researchers in cognitive neuroscience, developmental cognitive neuroscience, educational psychology, educational technology, education theory and other related disciplines to explore the interactions between biological processes and education. Researchers in educational neuroscience investigate the neural mechanisms of reading, numerical cognition, attention, and their attendant difficulties including dyslexia, dyscalculia, and ADHD as they relate to education. Several academic institutions around the world are beginning to devote resources to the establishment of educational neuroscience research.\n\nAs an academic field, philosophy of education is \"the philosophical study of education and its problems (...) its central subject matter is education, and its methods are those of philosophy\". \"The philosophy of education may be either the philosophy of the process of education or the philosophy of the discipline of education. That is, it may be part of the discipline in the sense of being concerned with the aims, forms, methods, or results of the process of educating or being educated; or it may be metadisciplinary in the sense of being concerned with the concepts, aims, and methods of the discipline.\" As such, it is both part of the field of education and a field of applied philosophy, drawing from fields of metaphysics, epistemology, axiology and the philosophical approaches (speculative, prescriptive or analytic) to address questions in and about pedagogy, education policy, and curriculum, as well as the process of learning, to name a few. For example, it might study what constitutes upbringing and education, the values and norms revealed through upbringing and educational practices, the limits and legitimization of education as an academic discipline, and the relation between education theory and practice.\n\nThere is no broad consensus as to what education's chief aim or aims are or should be. Some authors stress its value to the individual, emphasizing its potential for positively influencing students' personal development, promoting autonomy, forming a cultural identity or establishing a career or occupation. Other authors emphasize education's contributions to societal purposes, including good citizenship, shaping students into productive members of society, thereby promoting society's general economic development, and preserving cultural values.\n\nIn formal education, a curriculum is the set of courses and their content offered at a school or university. As an idea, curriculum stems from the Latin word for \"race course\", referring to the course of deeds and experiences through which children grow to become mature adults. A curriculum is prescriptive and is based on a more general syllabus which merely specifies what topics must be understood and to what level to achieve a particular grade or standard.\n\nAn academic discipline is a branch of knowledge which is formally taught, either at the university – or via some other such method. Each discipline usually has several sub-disciplines or branches, and distinguishing lines are often both arbitrary and ambiguous. Examples of broad areas of academic disciplines include the natural sciences, mathematics, computer science, social sciences, humanities and applied sciences.\n\nEducational institutions may incorporate fine arts as part of K-12 grade curricula or within majors at colleges and universities as electives. The various types of fine arts are music, dance, and theatre.\n\nThe Sudbury Valley School offers a model of education without a curricula.\n\nInstruction is the facilitation of another's learning. Instructors in primary and secondary institutions are often called teachers, and they direct the education of students and might draw on many subjects like reading, writing, mathematics, science and history. Instructors in post-secondary institutions might be called teachers, instructors, or professors, depending on the type of institution; and they primarily teach only their specific discipline. Studies from the United States suggest that the quality of teachers is the single most important factor affecting student performance, and that countries which score highly on international tests have multiple policies in place to ensure that the teachers they employ are as effective as possible. With the passing of NCLB in the United States (No Child Left Behind), teachers must be highly qualified. A popular way to gauge teaching performance is to use student evaluations of teachers (SETS), but these evaluations have been criticized for being counterproductive to learning and inaccurate due to student bias.\n\nCollege basketball coach John Wooden the Wizard of Westwood would teach through quick \"This not That\" technique. He would show (a) the correct way to perform an action, (b) the incorrect way the player performed it, and again (c) the correct way to perform an action. This helped him to be a responsive teacher and fix errors on the fly. Also, less communication from him meant more time that the player could practice.\n\nIt has been argued that high rates of education are essential for countries to be able to achieve high levels of economic growth. Empirical analyses tend to support the theoretical prediction that poor countries should grow faster than rich countries because they can adopt cutting edge technologies already tried and tested by rich countries. However, technology transfer requires knowledgeable managers and engineers who are able to operate new machines or production practices borrowed from the leader in order to close the gap through imitation. Therefore, a country's ability to learn from the leader is a function of its stock of \"human capital\". Recent study of the determinants of aggregate economic growth have stressed the importance of fundamental economic institutions and the role of cognitive skills.\n\nAt the level of the individual, there is a large literature, generally related to the work of Jacob Mincer, on how earnings are related to the schooling and other human capital. This work has motivated a large number of studies, but is also controversial. The chief controversies revolve around how to interpret the impact of schooling. Some students who have indicated a high potential for learning, by testing with a high intelligence quotient, may not achieve their full academic potential, due to financial difficulties.\n\nEconomists Samuel Bowles and Herbert Gintis argued in 1976 that there was a fundamental conflict in American schooling between the egalitarian goal of democratic participation and the inequalities implied by the continued profitability of capitalist production.\n\nMany countries are now drastically changing the way they educate their citizens. The world is changing at an ever quickening rate, which means that a lot of knowledge becomes obsolete and inaccurate more quickly. The emphasis is therefore shifting to teaching the skills of learning: to picking up new knowledge quickly and in as agile a way as possible. Finnish schools have even begun to move away from the regular subject-focused curricula, introducing instead developments like phenomenon-based learning, where students study concepts like climate change instead.\n\nEducation is also becoming a commodity no longer reserved for children. Adults need it too. Some governmental bodies, like the Finnish Innovation Fund Sitra in Finland, have even proposed compulsory lifelong education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52758665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52758665", "title": "Financial disclosure of public servants", "text": "Financial disclosure of public servants\n\nFinancial disclosure of public servants (asset declaration) is a disclosure of financial information by public servants. It is a requirement of the United Nations Convention against Corruption (UNCAC).\n\nNot counting states in the USA, the first country which made declarations available to public was United Kingdom in 1974, when the House of Commons introduced the Register of Members' Financial Interests. Following the Watergate scandal financial disclosure of public officials was made a requirement in the United States by its Ethics in Government Act of 1978. In 1980-th most of European countries disclosed public assets declarations. Italy in 1982, Portugal - 1983.\n\nIn Eastern European countries (ex-USSR) declarations were not gathered not before 1990.\n\nAsset declaration aims to increase transparency and the trust, prevent and resolve conflicts of interest, and monitor wealth either to discourage from misconduct or to provide additional evidence.\n\nThe UNCAC states that the conflict of interest is a criteria which determines what information should be disclosed. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) defines conflict of interest as \"a conflict between the public duty and private interests of a public official, in which the public official has private-capacity interests which could improperly influence the performance of their official duties and responsibilities\".\n"}
{"id": "9021925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9021925", "title": "Fletcher Foundation", "text": "Fletcher Foundation\n\nThe Fletcher Foundation is a nonprofit foundation that supports civil rights, education, and environmental education. The foundation supports efforts to develop a more just society with more equal opportunities for more of the population primarily by leveraging the financial and non-financial contributions of Fletcher Asset Management, the Fletcher Family including New York financier and philanthropist Alphonse Fletcher, Jr., and others. Fletcher Asset Management has been accused of fraud related to its management of funds and the value of pledges Fletcher's charitable pledges are in dispute.\n\nA 1987 graduate of Harvard University, Fletcher worked in investment banking and in 1991 founded Fletcher Asset Management. A Harvard Class Marshal, Fletcher endowed a University Professorship at his alma mater, first held by philosopher Cornel West and now held by literary critic Henry Louis Gates, Jr. In 2004, in commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the landmark Supreme Court decision, Brown v. Board of Education, the Fletcher Foundation announced the creation of the Alphonse Fletcher, Sr. Fellowship program, described by foundation chair Henry Louis Gates, Jr. as \"Guggenheims for race issues.\" The inaugural class of Fletcher Fellows, each awarded $50,000, was selected in 2006.\n\nGraywolf Press\n\n\nFletcher Fellows Press Release\n\n\nFletcher Fellows Press Release\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20746005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20746005", "title": "Forest History Society", "text": "Forest History Society\n\nThe Forest History Society is an American non-profit organization dedicated to the preservation of forest and conservation history. The society was established in 1946 and incorporated in 1955.\n\nThe Forest History Society headquarters in Durham, North Carolina, include the Alvin J. Huss Archives and the Carl A. Weyerhaeuser Library, which combine to provide a comprehensive compilation of materials related to the topic of forest history. The archives house large collections from several national organizations and companies such as the Society of American Foresters, the American Forest and Paper Association, the American Forestry Association, the American Tree Farm System, and the Weyerhaeuser Company as well as many other smaller collections of national and international significance. Additionally, the Forest History Society maintains a publication program, publishing the \"Environmental History\" journal, \"Forest History Today\" magazine, an Issues Series, and environmental and conservation-focused monographs; an education program, to build understanding and appreciation of human interaction with the natural world; and a liaison function between scholars, policymakers, and landowners. The Society also works to promote and reward academic scholarship in the fields of forest, conservation, and environmental history.\n\nIn 1946, a small group of historians and forest industry executives came together to form an organization dedicated to preserving the documentary forest heritage of North America. The \"Forest Products History Foundation\" was founded, and began as a program of the Minnesota Historical Society.\n\nOver the following decade, archival source materials were collected, an oral history interview program was created, and a scholarly quarterly journal began publication. In 1955, under second executive director Elwood Rondeau \"Woody\" Maunder, the Society incorporated as an independent nonprofit organization under the new name \"Forest History Foundation.\" The name was changed to \"Forest History Society\" four years later in 1959.\n\nThe organization left Minnesota in 1964, moving first to the Yale University campus in 1964, and then to the University of California at Santa Cruz in 1969. In 1984 the Society was moved to its current home in Durham, North Carolina, establishing an affiliation with Duke University and the Nicholas School of the Environment.\n\nIn 1996, a partnership was formed between the Forest History Society and the American Society for Environmental History. This relationship helped widen the scope of the Society's mission beyond the boundaries of forest and conservation history to include subjects related to the broader field of environmental history.\n\nThe Forest History Society publishes a magazine, \"Forest History Today\", and co-publishes the \"Environmental History\" journal with the American Society for Environmental History. A regular Issues Series is also published by the Society on environmental topics of contemporary interest such as fire, wetlands, and forests. Featured books representing important scholarship in the fields of forest, conservation, and environmental history are also published. The Society provides further financial, editorial, and research assistance to other authors publishing books in the subject area of environmental history.\n\n"}
{"id": "10070099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10070099", "title": "Garden City University College", "text": "Garden City University College\n\nThe Garden City University College is one of the private universities in Ghana. It is located at Kumasi in the Ashanti Region. It was established in 2001. as the College of Information Technology and Management Systems. The College was converted into the Garden City University College in 2004. It has been granted accreditation by the National Accreditation Board.\n\nThe university has three faculties at present. The current faculties are:\n\nThe programmes run in this faculty are:\n\nThere are five courses offered in this faculty.\n\n\n\nThe university plans to add two more schools. They are:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12704099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12704099", "title": "Immersion exhibit", "text": "Immersion exhibit\n\nAn immersion exhibit is a naturalistic zoo environment that gives visitors the sense of being in the animals' habitats. Buildings and barriers are hidden. By recreating sights and sounds from natural environments, immersion exhibits provide an indication about how animals live in the wild.\n\nThe landscape immersion term and approach were developed in 1975 through the efforts of David Hancocks at Seattle's Woodland Park Zoo. This led to the zoo's ground-breaking gorilla exhibit, which opened in 1978. The concept became the industry standard by the 1980s, and has since gained widespread acceptance as the best practice for zoological exhibits.\n"}
{"id": "28772982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28772982", "title": "James Mathews Leigh", "text": "James Mathews Leigh\n\nJames Mathews Leigh (1808 – 20 April 1860) was an English art educator, painter, writer, dramatist and critic. He is best known as the founder of a popular private art school in London known as \"Leigh's Academy\", which eventually became the present day Heatherley School of Fine Art.\n\nLeigh was born in London in 1808, the son of Samuel Leigh, a well-known bookseller who ran a shop at 18 The Strand, near the Adelphi Theatre London - William Blake was apparently a frequent visitor. James's uncle was the popular actor and theatre manager Charles Mathews (\"the elder\"). He studied art under William Etty, deciding to make historical painting his speciality. He first exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1830 with two paintings, \"Joseph presenting his Brethren to Pharaoh\" and \"Jephthah's vow\".\n\nSoon afterwards, he went on a tour of the continent, visiting galleries in France, Germany and Italy to study the works of the Old Masters and make sketches. Around this time also he devoted himself to writing, and, in 1838, privately published \"Cromwell\" an historical play in five acts, and later \"The Rhenish Album\". He then travelled to Spain where he made further sketches, resuming, on his return to England, work as a painter, and continuing to send paintings of sacred subjects and portraits to the Royal Academy and other exhibitions up to 1849.\n\nHowever, Leigh is now better known as a teacher of drawing than as an artist. In 1848, he founded an academy of art, \"Leigh's Academy\", at 79 Newman Street, off Oxford Street in London. It was well attended and became a formidable rival to the other main London art academy run by Henry Sass (\"Sass's Academy\"). He was said to be \"a first rate teacher and a profound critic in matters of art\". Many distinguished artists received their early training at Leigh's academy including Sir Frederic Leighton, Sir John Millais, Philip Hermogenes Calderon, Henry Stacy Marks, Edward Poynter, Joseph Boehm Edwin Long, Henry Holiday, Frederick Walker, John Bagnold Burgess, Walter Goodman and others.\n\nIn his last twenty years, Leigh exhibited no work at any of the recognised exhibitions, instead showing it on the walls of his art academy. He was also in the habit of sketching the same subjects - often of themes from literature - as his students in their drawing classes.\n\nLeigh had been a heavy pipe smoker throughout his life and developed cancer of the throat. He died shortly afterwards in London on 20 April 1860. His son, Henry Sambrooke Leigh (1837–1883) was a writer and dramatist. After his death, the running of Leigh's art school was taken over by Thomas Heatherley and the school renamed (as was the fashion) \"Heatherley's Art School\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14929317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14929317", "title": "Joel S. Demski", "text": "Joel S. Demski\n\nJoel S. Demski (born 1940) is an American accounting researcher and educator, and Frederick E. Fisher Eminent Scholar at University of Florida, inducted to the Accounting Hall of Fame in 2000.\n\nBorn in Sturgis, Michigan to George and Athalia Demski, Demski moved with his family to Pinconning, Michigan, where he grew up and his father had his own machine shop. He received a BSE in industrial engineering in 1962 from the University of Michigan, and MBA degree with high distinction in 1963. In this MBA program he encountered William A. Paton and took courses from Stephen A. Zeff and Samuel R. Hepworth. In 1967 he obtained his PhD from the University of Chicago.\n\nAfter graduation Demski started his academic career in 1967 at the Columbia University. The next year in 1968 he moved to Stanford University, where he was appointed Professor of Accountancy. In 1985 he was appointed Professor of Information and Accounting Systems at the Yale University, and in 1994 Scholar in Accounting at the University of Florida. Demski is a past president of the American Accounting Association.\n\nIn 1986 Demski received the Outstanding Accounting Educator Award of the American Accounting Association in 1986. And in 1994, along with co-author Gerald A. Feltham, he was awarded the Seminal Contributions in Accounting Literature Award for their article \"Economic Incentives in Budgetary Control Systems\" published in \"The Accounting Review\" in April, 1978.\n\nIn 2000, Demski was one of three inductees to the Accounting Hall of Fame, a program hosted by Ohio State University which honors top academics and practitioners nation- and world-wide. An excerpt from the Hall of Fame biography comments on his research contributions:\n\nHis pathbreaking work on applications of information economics and agency theory to accounting is presented in 60 published journal articles, 5 books, and over 25 other published papers. His work and that of the countless students he inspired has created a new domain for accounting theory. He is one of the most widely cited authors in the accounting literature and many of his papers have been awarded national prizes for their importance and influence. One of his first papers, \"An Accounting System Structured on a Linear Programming Model,\" won the 1967 AICPA Award for Outstanding Contributions to the Accounting Literature and 3 years later, another paper, \"The Use of Models in Information Evaluation\" (written with his former colleague Gerald Feltham), captured the same award.\nDemski is author of numerous articles and of books including:\n\nArticles, a selection:\n"}
{"id": "20927799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20927799", "title": "List of automotive museums", "text": "List of automotive museums\n\nAn automotive museum is a museum that explores the history of automotive-related transportation.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42121317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42121317", "title": "List of museums", "text": "List of museums\n\nThis is a list of museums. A museum is an institution that cares for (conserves) a collection of artifacts and other objects of artistic, cultural, historical, or scientific importance and makes them available for public viewing through exhibits that may be permanent or temporary.\n\nAccording to \"Museums of the World\", there are about 55,000 museums in 202 countries. The International Council of Museums comprises 30,000 members in 137 countries.\n\nMuseums in...\n\nMuseums in...\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5336410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5336410", "title": "Lynn Emanuel", "text": "Lynn Emanuel\n\nLynn Collins Emanuel (born March 14, 1949) is an American poet. Some of her poetry collections are \"Then, Suddenly—\" and \"Noose and Hook\" (University of Pittsburgh Press).\n\nShe has received two grants from the National Endowment for the Arts and the Eric Matthieu King Award from the Academy of American Poets.\nShe also won the 1992 National Poetry Series Open Competition for \"The Dig,\" and has been awarded a Pushcart Prize. Her poems have been published in literary magazines and journals including \"Parnassus,\" \"The American Poetry Review, Poetry, Boston Review, Harvard Review, The Hudson Review, Slate\" and \"Ploughshares,\" and in anthologies including \"The Best American Poetry\" anthologies in 1994, 1995, 1998, 1999, and 2000, and the \"Oxford Book of American Poetry\" (Oxford University Press, 2006).\n\nEmanuel is Director of the Writing Program, and Director of the Pittsburgh Contemporary Writers Series, and a professor of English at the University of Pittsburgh. She has also taught at the Warren Wilson Program in Creative Writing, and the Iowa Writers’ Workshop. She is married to the anthropologist, Jeffrey H. Schwartz, and they reside in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.\n\nEmanuel was born in Mt. Kisco, New York and has lived, worked, and traveled in North Africa, Europe, and the Near East. She received a B.A. from Bennington College in 1972, and an M.A. from City College of New York in 1975, and an M.F.A. from the Iowa Writers' Workshop, University of Iowa in 1983.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12125255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12125255", "title": "Margot Livesey", "text": "Margot Livesey\n\nMargot Livesey (born 1953) is a Scottish born writer. She is the author of eight novels, numerous short stories, and essays on the craft of writing fiction.\n\nLivesey came to North America during the 1970s where she worked to get her fiction published, reportedly because her boyfriend at the time was also a writer.\n\nLivesey's work has appeared in \"The New Yorker\", \"The Atlantic Monthly\", and a number of literary quarterlies. She was formerly the Fiction Editor at \"Ploughshares\", an American literary journal. Livesey served as a judge for the PEN/Bellwether Prize for Socially Engaged Fiction in 2012.\n\nShe currently lives in the Boston area and is the writer-in-residence at Emerson College. She had formally served as a professor at Boston University, Bowdoin College, Tufts University, Carnegie Mellon University, Brandeis University, Cleveland State University, Williams College, and at the University of California, Irvine. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43818675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43818675", "title": "Marian Small", "text": "Marian Small\n\nMarian Small (born 1948) is a Canadian educational researcher, academic, author, and public speaker. She has co-authored mathematics textbooks used in Canada, Austria, and the United States, and is a proponent of a constructivist approach to mathematical instruction within K–12 classrooms.\n\nSmall began teaching at the University of New Brunswick's Faculty of Education in 1973. Within that faculty she served as department chair, acting associate dean, acting dean, dean, and acting vice-president.\n\nSmall served two terms on New Brunswick's School District 18.\n\nSmall advocates a \"constructivism\" approach to mathematics instruction, which encourages students to construct explanations to math problems. \"There is a strongly held belief in the mathematics education community\", wrote Small, \"that mathematics is best learned when students are actively engaged in constructing their own understandings. This is only likely to happen in classrooms that emphasize rich problem solving and the exchange of many approaches to mathematical situations, and that give attention to and value students’ mathematical reasoning\".\n\nTo demonstrate this approach, Small provides an example of students learning to add 47 and 38. A traditional approach to math instruction would show students how to add these two numbers by \"grouping the ones, trading, and then grouping the tens\". Small explains that in a constructivist classroom, \"the teacher might provide students with a variety of counting materials and pose a problem such as, \"one bus has 47 students in it; another has 38. How many students are on both buses?\" and allow students to use their own strategies to solve the problem\". This would be followed by a classroom discussion where the various approaches used by students were shared and additional ideas were added.\n\nSmall's approach is enhanced by skillful questioning by the classroom teacher.\n\nSmall's style of math instruction has been described as a \"random abstract approach\" by those favouring more traditional skills-based pedagogy. Toronto's \"Globe and Mail\" stated: \"in the latest—arguably fiercest—of the \"math wars\" to break out in Canada, she would be Public Enemy No. 1 for those who think kids are fast losing their number sense because of the \"fuzzy-math, basic-skills-lite\" teaching Dr. Small and many of her contemporaries promote\".\n\nRegarding her role in the math wars, Small has acknowledged the \"concern about less emphasis on memorizing the facts and allowing calculator use\" as well as the \"very loud and impassioned debate on these matters\". Regarding the different approaches along the continuum of math instruction, Small stated \"neither is better—they are different. In fact, the more tools and approaches that we have, the more likely we are to be successful at a task\".\n\n"}
{"id": "27088030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27088030", "title": "Max Doerner (artist)", "text": "Max Doerner (artist)\n\nMax Doerner(1870–1939) was a German artist and art theorist.\n\nDoerner's artistic education was at the Academy of Fine Arts (Munich) where he studies under Johann Caspar Herterich and Wilhelm von Diez. His style was basically \"impressionistic\". He travelled around Europe, in particular to the Low Countries and Italy and studied the old techniques of painting. He is most noted for his work \"The Materials of the Artist and Their Use in Painting\" first published in 1921 and now running to many editions.\n\nHis approach inspired the founding of the Doerner Institute.\n\nHe was also an instructor at the Academy of Fine Arts, Munich, where his students included Karl Gatermann the Younger.\n\n"}
{"id": "51415832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51415832", "title": "Morgenster (ship)", "text": "Morgenster (ship)\n\nThe Morgenster (\"Morning Star\" in Dutch) is a sail training ship based in the Netherlands. She was built, as a herring lugger under the name De Vrouw Maria, in 1919. In 1927, she was lengthened by and converted into a motor fishing vessel. She was renamed \"Morgenster\" in 1959 and continued to be used as a fishing vessel until 1970. After a period of use for sport fishing and in the pirate radio business, she was acquired by her current owners for conversion back to a sailing vessel in 1983. She made her maiden voyage as a sail training ship in 2008, having been refitted as a brig.\n\n"}
{"id": "10397640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10397640", "title": "Myanmar International School", "text": "Myanmar International School\n\nMyanmar International School (MIS) is an independent coeducational day school, (Nursery school to Year 13) located in Yangon, Myanmar. It is one of 18 international schools located in Yangon and should not be confused with other similarly named international schools in Myanmar such as MISY. MIS follows the internationally recognized Cambridge International Schools curriculum with a core of academic subjects and a range of enrichment courses and activities and with an international teaching staff. The current head of the school is Mr. David Tansey, who formerly served as the head of schools in England before resigning amidst controversy. \n\nMyanmar International School was founded in 2009 by the Board of Directors of Than Lwin Aye Yar Services Co. Ltd. It is located on Pyin Nya Waddy Street adjacent to the Sedona Hotel and close to Inya Lake. The school opened its doors to the first students on 1 September 2009.\n\nMIS is an officially recognized Cambridge International school which uses the well-known Cambridge system. Myanmar International School has received accreditation to offer:\n\n\nMIS is also currently a candidate for accreditation from the Western Association of Schools and Colleges (WASC).\n\nStaff at MIS come from varied international backgrounds including Australia, England, Ireland, Germany, Spain, India, New Zealand, the Philippines, Russia, South Africa, and the USA. Most classes have an assistant teacher who works closely with the classroom teacher, especially in the area of ESL support.\n\nThere are 25 different nationalities represented in the student body of around 650 students. The majority of students are Myanmar. There is a strong representation of students with Chinese nationality. The following are also represented: Japan, USA, Australia, Malaysia, Korea, Russia, India, South Africa, Thailand, as well as other countries.\n\nPrimary School\n\nSecondary School\n\n"}
{"id": "6219200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6219200", "title": "NASA Academy", "text": "NASA Academy\n\nThe NASA Academy is NASA's premiere leadership training program for undergraduate and graduate students. Since its founding in 1993, the NASA Academy has brought together future leaders of the aerospace industry and exposed them to the inner workings of NASA, academia, and industry. The Academy consists of a ten-week summer program hosted by a participating NASA center. Currently there are academies at Langley Research Center, Ames Research Center, Marshall Space Flight Center and Glenn Research Center. Goddard Space Flight Center and Dryden Flight Research Center previously hosted NASA Academies, as well.\n\nThe NASA Academy at was founded in 1993 at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center by Gerald \"Gerry\" Soffen. The concept was largely based on the concept of the International Space University. Soffen envisioned the NASA Academy as a leadership program with an inter-disciplinary approach similar to ISU, but without the emphasis on the international and intercultural aspects. Specifically, Soffen created the program to \"give possible 'leaders' a view into how NASA, the university community, and the private sector function; [to] set their priorities; and [to] contribute to the success of the aerospace program.\"\n\nThe research focus for any specific NASA Academy can change from year to year. In 2015, the Multidisciplinary Aeronautics Research Team Initiative (MARTI) replaced the Aeronautics Academy.\n\nThe NASA Academy states its mission as follows: \"to identify and recruit the future leaders of the space exploration community, to introduce them to the key aspects of the industry, to provide them with critical training, and to build an ever-expanding network of these future leaders, so that these young scientists and engineers are prepared to assume the highest responsibilities of a career dedicated to leadership in space exploration.\"\n\nThe 2010 NASA Academy Definitions Document outlines six key criteria that are critical to the program and which, when taken as a whole, differentiate it from other NASA leadership development programs:\n\nNASA Academy students are typically expected to work long hours: as a general rule, the day is scheduled from 07:30 to 21:00, after which students work on the Team Project or on individual research assignments. However, NASA Academy students are also typically given excellent opportunities, including field trips to other centers and excellent access to the leaders and decision-makers of the aerospace industry.\n\nA NASA Academy class typically varies from 10-20 students per center per year. Participants are selected in a joint effort between the NASA Center, the NASA Academy Alumni Association, the PIs, and the State Space Grant Consortia. Alumni from the previous year's program are typically selected to serve as program coordinators for current sessions. For several years in the early 2000s (decade), the NASA Academy at GSFC admitted a French student every year as part of a cooperative agreement with the Centre National d'Études Spatiales, the French space agency.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1441316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1441316", "title": "National Reading Panel", "text": "National Reading Panel\n\nThe National Reading Panel (NRP) was a United States government body. Formed in 1997 at the request of Congress, it was a national panel with the stated aim of assessing the effectiveness of different approaches used to teach children to read.\n\nThe panel was created by Director of the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD) at the National Institutes of Health, in consultation with the United States Secretary of Education, and included prominent experts in the fields of reading education, psychology, and higher education. The panel was chaired by Donald Langenberg (University of Maryland), and included the following members: Gloria Correro (Mississippi State U.), Linnea Ehri (City University of New York), Gwenette Ferguson (middle school teacher, Houston, TX), Norma Garza (parent, Brownsville, TX), Michael L. Kamil (Stanford U.), Cora Bagley Marrett (U. Massachusetts-Amherst), S. J. Samuels (U. of Minnesota), Timothy Shahahan (U. of Illinois at Chicago), Sally Shaywitz (Yale U.), Thomas Trabasso (U. of Chicago), Joanna Williams (Columbia U.), Dale Willows (U. Of Toronto), Joanne Yatvin (school district superintendent, Boring, OR).\n\nIn April 2000, the panel issued its report, \"Teaching Children to Read,\" and completed its work. The report summarized research in eight areas relating to literacy instruction: phonemic awareness instruction, phonics instruction, fluency instruction, vocabulary instruction, text comprehension instruction, independent reading, computer assisted instruction, and teacher professional development. The final report was endorsed by all of the panel members except one. Joanne Yatvin wrote a minority report criticizing the work of the NRP because it (a) did not include teachers of early reading on the panel or as reviewers of the report and (b) only focused on a subset of important reading skills. Timothy Shanahan, another panel member, later responded that Dr. Yatvin had received permission to investigate areas of reading instruction that the panel could not address within the limited time provided for their work. Shanahan noted that she had not pursued additional areas of interest despite the willingness of the panel to allow her to do so.\n\nIn 2001, President George W. Bush announced that the report would be the basis of federal literacy policy and was used prominently to craft Reading First, a $5 billion federal reading initiative that was part of the No Child Left Behind legislation.\n\nThe NRP called phonemic awareness (PA) instruction \"impressive\".\n\nThe report determined that PA instruction based on teaching children to manipulate phonemes with letters was highly effective. Phonemic awareness instruction also improved spelling in grade-level students, although it did not improve spelling in disabled readers.\n\nThe NRP reviewed 38 studies on the teaching of phonics and found that teaching children the relationship between letters and spelling patterns and pronunciation and how to decode words improved reading achievement. Young children who received such instruction did better with decoding words, nonsense words, spelling, fluency, and reading comprehension. Older disabled readers also benefited from such instruction in terms of improvement in decoding, but without commensurate gains in spelling or reading comprehension. Systematic phonics instruction—that is instruction based on a planned curriculum—was found to be superior to more opportunistic versions in which teachers tried to teach what they thought students needed. There were no statistical differences between synthetic phonics programs in which each letter sound is taught versus analytical phonics that analyzes the sounds within complete words.\n\nThe NRP analyzed 16 studies showing that teaching oral reading fluency led to improvements in word reading, fluency, and reading comprehension for students in grades 1-4, and for older students with reading problems. Instruction that had students reading texts aloud, with repetition, and feedback led to clear learning benefits.\n\nThe panel analyzed the published research on the effects of encouraging students to read. Most of the studies of this focused on the practice of sustained silent reading, in which teachers makes books and time available for students to read on their own without interference, interruption, or teacher involvement. The research quality was particularly low and the panel concluded that there was insufficient evidence on which to determine whether such approaches have any learning benefit for students.\n\nThe panel examined the results of 204 studies on reading comprehension instruction. It was evident throughout the grades that teaching students how to think about the ideas in text can improve reading achievement. Particularly powerful in this regard were teaching students to summarize the information that they had read, or having them ask (and answer) questions about the ideas. Additionally, efforts to guide students to monitor their comprehension (essentially paying attention to whether they were understanding during reading and taking some kind of action if they were not), to use their prior knowledge, to visualize the information described in text, or to think about the structure of a text through story mapping, all provided learning benefits to students.\n\n"}
{"id": "7159985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7159985", "title": "Nel Noddings", "text": "Nel Noddings\n\nNel Noddings (; born January 19, 1929) is an American feminist, educationalist, and philosopher best known for her work in philosophy of education, educational theory, and ethics of care.\n\nNoddings received a bachelor's degree in mathematics and physical science from Montclair State College in New Jersey, a master's degree in mathematics from Rutgers University, and a Ph.D. in education from the Stanford Graduate School of Education.\n\nNel Noddings worked in many areas of the education system. She spent seventeen years as an elementary and high school mathematics teacher and school administrator, before earning her PhD and beginning work as an academic in the fields of philosophy of education, theory of education and ethics, specifically moral education and ethics of care. She became a member of the Stanford faculty in 1977, and was the Jacks Professor of Child Education from 1992 until 1998. While at Stanford University she received awards for teaching excellence in 1981, 1982 and 1997, and was the associate dean or acting dean of the School of Education for four years. After leaving Stanford University, she held positions at Columbia University and Colgate University. She is past president of the Philosophy of Education Society and the John Dewey Society. In 2002-2003 she held the John W. Porter Chair in Urban Education at Eastern Michigan University. She has been Lee L. Jacks Professor of Education, Emerita, at Stanford University since she retired in 1998.\n\nNel Noddings has 10 children, 39 grandchildren, and over 20 great- grandchildren, many of whom are highly educated and educators themselves. In 2012 she lost her husband of over 60 years to cancer.\n\nShe has described her early educational experiences and her close relationships as key in her development of her philosophical position.\n\nNoddings' first sole-authored book \"Caring: A Feminine Approach to Ethics and Moral Education\" (1984) followed close on the 1982 publication of Carol Gilligan’s ground-breaking work in the ethics of care \"In a Different Voice\". While her work on ethics continued, with the publication of \"Women and Evil\" (1989), and later works on moral education, most of her later publications have been on the philosophy of education and educational theory. Her most significant works in these areas have been \"Educating for Intelligent Belief or Unbelief\" (1993) and \"Philosophy of Education\" (1995).\n\nBesides contributing to philosophy, Noddings also works in the field of social psychology. Noddings is currently on the Editorial Board of \"Greater Good Magazine\", published by the Greater Good Science Center of the University of California, Berkeley. Noddings' contributions include the interpretation of scientific research into the roots of compassion, altruism, and peaceful human relationships.\n\nNel Noddings' approach to ethics of care has been described as \"relational ethics\" because it prioritizes concern for relationships. Like Carol Gilligan, Noddings accepts that justice based approaches, which are supposed to be more masculine, are genuine alternatives to ethics of care. However, unlike Gilligan, Noddings' believes that caring, 'rooted in receptivity, relatedness, and responsiveness' is a more basic and preferable approach to ethics (\"Caring\" 1984, 2).\n\nThe key to understanding Noddings' ethics of care is to understand her notion of caring and ethical caring in particular.\n\nNoddings believes that it would be a mistake to try to provide a systematic examination of the requirements for caring; nevertheless, she does suggest three requirements for caring (\"Caring\" 1984, 11-12). She argues that the carer (\"one-caring\") must exhibit engrossment and motivational displacement, and the person who is cared for (\"cared-for\") must respond in some way to the caring (1984, 69). Noddings' term \"engrossment\" refers to thinking about someone in order to gain a greater understanding of him or her. Engrossment is necessary for caring because an individual's personal and physical situation must be understood before the one-caring can determine the appropriateness of any action. 'Engrossment' need not entail, as the term seems to suggest, a deep fixation on the other. It requires only the attention needed to come to understand the position of the other. Engrossment could not on its own constitute caring; someone could have a deep understanding of another person, yet act against that person's interests. Motivational displacement prevents this from occurring. Motivational displacement occurs when the one-caring's behaviour is largely determined by the needs of the person for whom she is caring. On its own, motivational displacement would also be insufficient for ethical caring. For example, someone who acted primarily from a desire to accomplish something for another person, but failed to think carefully enough about that other person's needs (failed to be correctly engrossed in the other), would fail to care. Finally, Noddings believes that caring requires some form of recognition from the cared-for that the one-caring is, in fact, caring. When there is a recognition of and response to the caring by the person cared for, Noddings describes the caring as \"completed in the other\" (1984, 4).\n\nNel Noddings draws an important distinction between natural caring and ethical caring (1984, 81-83). Noddings distinguishes between acting because \"I want\" and acting because \"I must\". When I care for someone because \"I want\" to care, say I hug a friend who needs hugging in an act of love, Noddings claims that I am engaged in natural caring. When I care for someone because \"I must\" care, say I hug an acquaintance who needs hugging in spite of my desire to escape that person's pain, according to Noddings, I am engaged in ethical caring. Ethical caring occurs when a person acts caringly out of a belief that caring is the appropriate way of relating to people. When someone acts in a caring way because that person naturally cares for another, the caring is not ethical caring (1984, 79-80). Noddings' claims that ethical caring is based on, and so dependent on, natural caring (1984, 83, 206 fn 4). It is through experiencing others caring for them and naturally caring for others that people build what is called an \"ethical ideal\", an image of the kind of person they want to be.\n\nNoddings describes wrong actions in terms of \"a diminishment of the ethical ideal\" and \"evil\". A person's ethical ideal is diminished when she either chooses or is forced to act in a way that rejects her internal call to care. In effect, her image of the best person it is possible for her to be is altered in a way that lowers her ideal. According to Noddings, people and organizations can deliberately or carelessly contribute to the diminishment of other's ethical ideals. They may do this by teaching people not to care, or by placing them in conditions that prevent them from being able to care (1984, 116-119). A person is evil if, in spite of her ability to do otherwise, she either fails to personally care for someone, or prevents others from caring. Noddings writes, \"[when] one intentionally rejects the impulse to care and deliberately turns her back on the ethical, she is evil, and this evil cannot be redeemed\" (1984, 115).\n\nThis is referred to as \"obligation\". \"There are moments for all of us when we care quite naturally. We just do care; no ethical effort is required. 'Want' and 'ought' are indistinguishable in such cases.\" I have the ability to \"abstain from action if I [so] believe that anything I might do would tend to work against the best interests of the cared-for.\" According to Noddings we are obligated to pursue the \"musts\".\n\nNel Noddings' ethics of care has been criticised by both feminists and those who favour more traditional, and allegedly masculine, approaches to ethics. In brief, feminists object that the one caring is, in effect, carrying out the traditional female role in life of giving while receiving little in return. Those who accept more traditional approaches to ethics argue that the partiality shown to those closest to us in Noddings' theory is inappropriate.\n\nNoddings tends to use unequal relationships as a model for understanding caring. Philosopher and feminist Sarah Lucia Hoagland argues that the relationships in question, such as parenting and teaching, are ideally relationships where caring is a transitory thing designed to foster the independence of the cared-for, and so end the unequal caring relationship. Unequal relationships, she writes, are ethically problematic, and so a poor model for an ethical theory. Hoagland argues that on Noddings' account of ethical caring, the one-caring is placed in the role of the \"giver\" and the cared-for in the role of the \"taker\". The one-caring is dominant, choosing what is good for the cared-for, but gives without receiving caring in return. The cared-for is put in the position of being a dependent, with insufficient control over the nature of the caring. Hoagland believes that such unequal relationships cannot be morally good.\n\nIn education, the ethic of care speaks of obligation to do something right and a sense that we must do something right when others address us. The \"I must\" response is induced in direct encounter in preparation for response. We respond because we want to; either we love and respect those that address us or we have significant regard for them. As a result, the recipients of care must respond in a way that demonstrates their caring has been received.\n\nIn regards, to education, caring refers to the relationship between student and teacher, not just the person who cares. As educators respond to the needs of students, teachers may see the need to design a differentiated curriculum because as teachers work closely with students, we will be moved by their different needs and interests. The claim to care must not be based on a one time virtuous decision but an ongoing interest in the student’s welfare.\n\nIn “Identifying Needs in Education\" Noddings (2003) provides criteria for deciding whether a want should be recognized or treated as a need. This criteria is as follows:\n\n\nThe overt or explicit curriculum in education is designed to meet the inferred needs of students, as they are those identified by teachers or individuals to improve the classroom learning environment. In the ethics of care philosophy, inferred needs are referred to as those that come from those not directly expressing the need. Most needs identified by educators for learners are inferred needs because they are not being identified by the learners themselves. Students’ inferred needs can often be identified interactively, through working with them one on one or observing their behaviour in a classroom environment.\n\nExpressed needs are difficult to assess and address in the classroom environment, as they are needs directly expressed by learners through behaviour or words. Although expressed needs are difficult to address, educators need to treat them positively in order to maintain a caring relationship with learners. If expressed needs are not treated carefully, the individual might not feel cared for. Educators should make a consistent effort to respond to a student’s expressed needs through prior planning and discussions of moral and social issues surrounding the needs \n\nBasic needs are defined as the most basic needs required to survive such as food, water and shelter. Basic needs and needs associated with self-actualization (overwhelming needs) co-exist when basic needs are being compromised over extended periods of time.\n\nOverwhelming needs cannot be met by the usual processes of schooling and include extreme instances such as abuse, neglect and illness. As well, a student’s socioeconomic status (SES) or dysfunctional family environment can cause them to come to school with needs that cannot be expressed nor met by educators. To help meet those overwhelming needs of students, particularly those in poor neighborhood, the ethic of care philosophy dictates that schools should be full-service institutions. Medical and dental care, social services, childcare and parenting advice should be available on campus. In turn, students in these situations are often forced into academic courses and fight an uphill battle, where they have to engage in activities that are difficult to focus on, based on their circumstances.\n\nPeople who are poor, perhaps homeless, without dependable transportation cannot afford to run all over town seeking such services, and often they don’t know where to begin. Despite being aware of the overwhelming needs many students face, we force all children—regardless of interest or aptitude—into academic courses and then fight an uphill battle to motivate them to do things they do not want to do.\n\nEmotion has been aggravated by the rise of professions with their insistence on detachment, distance, cool appraisal and systematic procedures. Concern for rational and professional functioning keeps emotion out of education, as it is supposed that real professionals do not allow themselves to feel controlled by their emotions and are forced to face problems with dispassionate rationality Noddings (1996) states that in the teaching profession, the concern takes several forms:\n\n\nThe use of stories in teacher education could be powerful in dispelling these beliefs, as they illustrate how deeply experienced teachers feel about the inevitable difficulties that occur in the classroom \n\nIn the ethic of care model, the aim of education is centered around happiness. Incorporating this component into education involves not only helping our students understand the components of happiness by allowing teachers and students to interact as a whole community In regard to the education of the whole child, Noddings (2005) stated that, “We will not find the solution to problems of violence, alienation, ignorance, and unhappiness in increasing our security, imposing more tests, punishing schools for their failure to produce 100 percent proficiency, or demanding that teachers be knowledgeable in the subjects they teach. Instead, we must allow teachers and students to interact as whole persons, and we must develop policies that treat the school as a whole community.” \n\nOne criticism of Noddings' ethic of care, in regards to education, is that it advocates little importance to caring for oneself, except as a means to provide further care for others. In regards to education, the teacher-student relationship could be jeopardized because the educator might not engage in self care and instead, devote all their energy into meeting their students' needs. Hoaglard (1991, p. 255) states that the caregiver would be defined as a “martyr, servant or slave” by the philosophy in the ethic of care. \n\nAnother criticism of Noddings' argument is that ethic of care may result not only in the exploitation of the caregiver, but also in a smothering paternalism. Goodin (1996, p. 507) writes that, “the trouble with subsuming individuals into relationships of ‘we’ness is precisely that we then risk losing track of the separateness of people”. As well, Goodin (1996, p. 116-120) states that Noddings' criteria for implicit and explicit needs assumes that needs are transparent to the caregiver and that the caregiver’s perceptions are privileged in the process of interpreting needs. Lastly, Grimshaw (1986) explains that it is important to consider that good care always entails an element of distance between individuals. She states, (1986, p. 183) “Care and understanding require the sort of distance that is needed in order not to see the other as a projection of the self, or self as a continuation of other”. Thus, a clear distance between the self and the individual that is being cared for needs to exist in order to keep the personal care of both individuals in mind.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2244308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244308", "title": "Norbulingka Institute", "text": "Norbulingka Institute\n\nNorbulingka Institute, founded in 1995 by Kelsang and Kim Yeshi at Sidhpur, near Dharamshala, India, is dedicated to the preservation of the Tibetan culture in its literary and artistic forms.\n\nThe institute is named after Norbulingka, the traditional summer residence of the Dalai Lamas, in Lhasa, Tibet. The ground plan is based on the proportions of Avalokitesvara, the thousand-armed god of compassion, with the temple as the head.\n\nNorbulingka is dedicated to handing down tradition and restoring standards by providing training, education and employment for Tibetans. It supports an environment in which Tibetan community and family values can flourish. It reconciles the traditional creatively and respectfully with the modern, and seeks to create an international awareness of Tibetan values and their expression in art and literature. Norbulingka produces high quality, traditionally crafted art objects, as well as clothing and home furnishings. Free guided tours of the institute are available to visitors every day except Sunday. Workshop are also offered for those wishing to study Tibetan arts. The institute also runs two guesthouses—Norling Guesthouse and Chonor House. All proceeds from all Norbulingka's projects go directly back into the institute to further our endeavors to preserve Tibetan culture.\n\nNorbulingka's art studios include Tibetan statue making, thangka painting, screen-printing, applique and tailoring, woodcarving, wood painting, papermaking, and wood and metal craft.\n\nThe Academy of Tibetan Culture, established in 1997, offers a three-year course of higher education in traditional Tibetan studies, as well as English, Chinese, and world history.\n\nThe Research Department of Norbulingka houses the team composing the official biography of the Dalai Lama, of which nine volumes in Tibetan have already been published. The research section is also compiling a comprehensive encyclopedia of Tibetan culture.\n\nThe institute also has the two-storeyed 'Seat of Happiness Temple' (Deden Tsuglakhang) built in 1985 and set amidst the Japanese inspired Norbulingka gardens. It is known for its 1,173 murals of Buddha, frescoes of all the Dalai Lamas and drawings chronicling the life of the 14th Dalai Lama. In the main hall stands the 4 mt high gilded copper Buddha Sakyamuni statue, made by institute's master statue-maker, the late Chenmo Pemba Dorje, and one of largest such statues outside Tibet. Around the temple are workshops of artisans and apprentices that produce various art objects, which are sold at the Norbulingka Shop, for the benefit of Tibetan refugees.\n\nThe Losel Doll Museum has diorama displays of traditional Tibetan scenes, using miniature Tibetan dolls in traditional costumes.\n\nA short distance from the institute lies the Dolma Ling Buddhist nunnery, and the Gyato Monastery, temporary residence of the 17th Karmapa, Ogyen Trinley Dorje.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37444456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37444456", "title": "OER Commons", "text": "OER Commons\n\nOER Commons is a freely accessible online library that allows teachers and others to search and discover open educational resources (OER) and other freely available instructional materials.\n\nOER Commons, created by the Institute for the Study of Knowledge Management in Education, was developed to serve curriculum experts and educators in discovering open educational resources (OER) and collaborating around the use, evaluation, and improvement of those materials. Resources on the site can be searched and filtered using an expanded set of descriptive data, including conditions of use. Teachers, students, and others enrich this \"metadata\" when they tag, rate, and review materials, and share what works for them.\n\nIn 2007, with a grant from the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, OER Commons opened as a digital library and intermediary for openly licensed and freely available content. By aggregating resources and standardizing metadata from OER content providers, the site supports knowledge sharing and access to teaching and learning materials, strategies, and curricula online. \nIndividual educators submit their own contributions which are curated. Materials are reviewed for quality and alignment to standards and shared primarily using Creative Commons licenses.\n\nIn a second phase, beginning in 2009, ISKME developed an initiative for teacher professional development program to support educators in finding and using OER supported by the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation and the Ford Foundation. As part of its teacher training program, ISKME trained educators from over 25 countries to use OER through workshops and summer academies, including ISKME's Teachers as Makers Academies.\n\nISKME’s OER research revealed how teachers’ exposure to OER, tools and professional development cultivates collaboration among teachers, as well as new conversations and reflection about teaching practices and roles. Petrides et al., 2011\n\nFurthermore, research conducted on the impact of teachers’ participation in ISKME’s own OER training network revealed that engagement with OER reduced teacher isolation (Petrides & Jimes, 2010), as well as expanded the role of teachers in becoming more active innovators as they shared, collaborated and learned from one another (Petrides et al., 2011). This work also revealed the role that OER teacher champions play in sharing the benefits of OER with colleagues and supporting the knowledge sharing, collaboration, and use of OER in online OER communities (ISKME, 2008; Petrides & Jimes, 2010; Petrides et al., 2011).\n\nISKME’s OER research also explored OER as a vehicle for disseminating adaptable curricula that support learner-centric approaches to pedagogy. ISKME’s evaluation of the Community College Open Textbook Project revealed that study habits improved when learners were able to interact with open course material, and that students’ use of open textbooks cultivated new, self-directed learning behaviors (Petrides et al., 2011).\n\nFinally, ISKME’s research revealed the role that collaboration plays in supporting the creation of open educational resources. Specifically, ISKME’s study of authors who created content within the open repository Connexions revealed how as content creation group size increased beyond one author, the probability that users stayed with Connexions (and continued to create content) increased with it (Petrides et al., 2008).\n\nISKME’s technology platform, tools, and metadata enhancement in its work with OER Commons are designed to support an open platform that serves as a knowledge base for content providers and platform developers, particularly related to accessibility and inclusive design. Metadata, data that describes a resource, and in the case of open educational resources, includes descriptors such as title, author, material type, and material license. Metadata standards provide a template for OER providers to share their resources with other providers. OER Commons receives feeds of OER in Dublin Core (DC), IEEE's Learning Object Metadata (LOM), and RSS. OER Commons provide targets to other providers to harvest content in these formats.\n\nPartnered with the Inclusive Design Research Centre since 2010 to incorporate FLOE components into the OER Commons platform, ISKME’s efforts combine OER discovery and enhancement tools and processes with FLOE’s personalized network-delivered accessibility standards and tools.\n\nIn 2012, ISKME released Open Author, an authoring and remixing environment to support the creation and adaption of multi-media accessible OER and enable collaborative workflows of content reviewers and creators. The authoring environment produces OER that is accessible using a broad range of assistive technology devices such as screen readers.\n\nTo support user contributions, in 2010 ISKME released the OER-Connector browser plug-in on GitHub that enables users to add resources to OER Commons.\n\nTo support interoperability, OER Commons is an experimental node in the Learning Registry, a joint US Department of Education and US Department of Defense initiative to support educational content and platform interoperability.\n\nThe OER Commons contains custom curated resource collections, or microsites. Within a microsite, OER is presented in the context of customized taxonomies to categorize and describe relevant OER. In 2011, ISKME announced the Green Micro-site with Greek partner Agro-Know. It is an aggregation of sustainability-related learning resources and features interdisciplinary lesson plans such as STEAM (Science Technology Engineering Art and Math) resources.\n\nThe OER Commons infrastructure facilitates evaluation of content and alignment to quality rubrics and standards. Starting in 2011, OER Commons provides an embedded Common Core State Standards alignment tool and Achieve OER Rubric to support state-level curriculum committees as well as individual instructors to review content for quality and alignment and to collaboratively address gaps in content collections.\n\nISKME was named an Education Laureate by the San Jose Tech Museum of Innovation in 2007 for OER Commons.\n\nIn December 2010, ISKME was named a finalist in the Qatar Foundation World Innovation Summit for Education (WISE) Awards for its OER Commons teacher professional development programs.\n\nIn 2011, ISKME won the Award for Bodies which Influence Policy from the Open Educational Quality Initiative (OPAL), a consortium that includes UNESCO, the International Council for Open and Distance Education, the European Foundation for Quality in e-Learning, and several European universities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38991326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38991326", "title": "OpenHPI", "text": "OpenHPI\n\nopenHPI is a platform for massive open online courses (MOOC) in the field of computer science and information technology. It is hosted at the Hasso Plattner Institute (HPI) in Potsdam, Germany. openHPI is open to everyone, and participation is free of charge. Everybody can register and enroll for courses without any prerequisites. openHPI’s courses are derived from HPI’s bachelor and master programs in IT-Systems Engineering and cover both, foundations of information technology as well as highly topical innovations.\n\nThe course languages are English and German. openHPI offers around six to ten courses per year. All courses follow the same educational format: The subject domain is split into two to six weekly units. Each week, video lectures, reading materials and quizzes are presented in a learning sequence. Learners can ask their questions and discuss points of interest with each other in the course discussion forum which is actively moderated by the teaching team. Learning progress is measured through self-tests which can be repeated as often as desired, and assessed in graded weekly assignments, and a graded final exam. Participants who achieve at least 50% of the total score receive a record of achievement. After a course ends, materials remain available in archive mode.\n\nThe platform, which began in September 2012, pioneered the MOOC format in Germany. The first course covered the topic of In-Memory Data Management and was given by the founder of the HPI, Prof. Hasso Plattner. In 2017, five years after its launch, openHPI reached the benchmark of 400,000 enrollments.\n\nThe platform was originally based on the popular learning management system Canvas, with some technical adaptations for example a reworked front end. The experience with the first courses showed that this system was not able to scale to many thousands of participants. Therefore, a new platform was developed from scratch in the sense of a service-oriented architecture (SOA), which allows better scalability and more flexibility regarding the integration of features. Video streaming is made through the streaming provider Vimeo. The platform uses a dual stream video player which allows the synchronous playback of two video sources, for example the video of a lecturer together with the video of the presentation slides. In 2015, the programming platform CodeOcean was developed by HPI researchers and integrated in openHPI. CodeOcean is available as an open source solution and allows programming directly in the browser. It has already been used in the openHPI courses “Java für Einsteiger,” “Web Technologies,” and “Spielend Programmieren lernen”.\nSince 2017, the open mode has been available on openHPI, meaning that you can watch many of the videos without having to create an account. Only for specific actions, such as writing in the forum or taking an exam, you need to enroll.\n\nSince 2013, SAP SE has used another instance of the same platform (openSAP) to make its training offers available to employees, customers, and a broad public.\nThe Hasso Plattner Institute has run another instance of the same platform called mooc.house since 2015. The mooc.house platform is a white label solution for companies, institutions, and individuals who want to offer their own online courses.\nIn 2017, the Hasso Plattner Institute set up another MOOC platform for the World Health Organization (WHO). On OpenWHO, the WHO offers online courses on topics that focus on improving the response to health emergencies.\n\n"}
{"id": "19680771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19680771", "title": "Ordinary (lecture)", "text": "Ordinary (lecture)\n\nAn Ordinary was a type of lecture given in universities of the Middle Ages. Lectures were distinguished by the time of day they were conducted: an \"ordinary\" was conducted by fully qualified professors on fundamental texts in the morning, while \"extraordinary\" lectures were given in the afternoon by bachelors (the medieval equivalent of a graduate student) on less important texts.\n"}
{"id": "55160116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55160116", "title": "Orlando Harrison Baker", "text": "Orlando Harrison Baker\n\nOrlando Harrison Baker (September 16, 1830 – August 6, 1913) was a professor of ancient languages at Simpson College in Iowa and the principal of Algona College. He later served as the U. S. consul at posts in Denmark, Australia, and Borneo. \n\nOrlando Harrison Baker was born in Union County, Indiana, the oldest child of Jacob Baker and Mary Baker. He was educated at Mt. Morris Seminary in Illinois and at Allegheny College in Meadville, Pennsylvania. For lack of money he had to drop out of college and go to work as a carpenter, painter, and teacher. He eventually saved up enough to complete his undergraduate degree at Indiana Asbury University (now DePauw University) in 1857. He was ordained a minister around 1858, and he received his M.A. from Indiana Asbury University in 1861. \n\nIn 1868, he took up the post of professor of Latin and Greek at Simpson College. In 1871, he moved to Algona College to serve as its president, a position he held until the college closed in 1875. From 1875 to 1877, he served as pastor of churches in Cambridge and Boonsboro, and in 1878 he became the principal of the Boonsboro school system. \n\nIn 1879, he moved his family back to Indianola, and the following year he took up the editorship of the Indianola \"Herald\", a position he held until 1886. Following that, he became a traveling correspondent for the \"Chicago Inter Ocean\" newspaper until 1892.\n\nBaker next moved into government service as a U.S. consul, first in Copenhagen, Denmark (1893-94) and then Sydney, Australia (1900-08). In 1908, he took up the consulship of Sandakan, North Borneo, where he remained to the end of his life. In 1905, as he was on his way back to the United States on leave, he died on board the U.S. transport \"Thomas\" in the harbor at Nagasaki, Japan.\n\nBaker married Mary Catherine Ridley in 1858; she died in 1890 and he remarried, to Rachel Halton Beach. He had six children, four of whom survived to adulthood. His daughters Myra and Joanna also became professors, Myra at Napa College and Joanna at Simpson College.\n"}
{"id": "28893592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28893592", "title": "Perfect attendance award", "text": "Perfect attendance award\n\nA perfect attendance award is traditionally given in U.S. schools as a way to honor students who have neither missed any days of nor been late to class. Supporters believe that the award promotes education by encouraging students to attend class whenever it is in session. However, some believe that offering a perfect attendance award promotes presenteeism and hurts public health by causing students to attend class when sick with a potentially contagious illness, while punishing those who make the decision to stay home to recover.\n"}
{"id": "6786055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6786055", "title": "Quantum Magazine", "text": "Quantum Magazine\n\nQuantum: The Magazine of Math and Science was a United States-based bimonthly magazine of mathematics and science, primarily physics, designed for young readers. It was published by the National Science Teachers Association (NSTA) and Springer-Verlag and was headquartered in Washington DC.\n\n\"Quantum\" was a sister publication of the Russian magazine \"Kvant\". \"Quantum\" contained translations from \"Kvant\" and original material.\n\nThe magazine was founded in 1990. It ceased publication with its July/August 2001 issue.\n\nAll articles from the magazine are indexed online by the NSTA.\n\n"}
{"id": "41693487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41693487", "title": "Rajeev Sethi", "text": "Rajeev Sethi\n\nRajeev Sethi (born 24 May 1949) is a noted Indian designer, scenographer and art curator. He is known for his outstanding designs across the world.\n\nIn 1986, he was awarded the Padma Bhushan, India's third highest civilian award, given Government of India.\n\nSethi was born in Delhi to freedom fighter parents. His mother, Krishna Sethi was a member of Delhi's first Legislative Assembly and his father Kishorilal Sethi was a businessman and a poet. He also had four elder sisters. He went to Modern School, New Delhi and studied History at St. Stephen's College, Delhi.\n\nSethi spent his formative years in Paris, where he first went to study graphic art on a scholarship. Thereafter he trained under painter and printmaker Stanley William Hayter at his studio, Atelier 17. He was mentored by American designers Ray and Charles Eames. Finally he got a chance to work at studio of French designer, Pierre Cardin. Meanwhile, in 1960, he designed Delhi's first discotheque, \"Cellar\" at Regal Building, Connaught Place.\n\nHe is curator and founder-chairman of the Asian Heritage Foundation. He designed \"The Art Walk\" at the brand new T2 terminal in Mumbai.\n\nHe is also part of INTACH constituted the first Governing Council.\n\nThe project is spread over three km, an area covering 80,000 sq ft on walls at the Mumbai T2 terminal. The \"Jaya He art walk\" is the metaphorical centerpiece of the majestic new airport terminal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27306420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27306420", "title": "Sam Nuchia", "text": "Sam Nuchia\n\nSam Nuchia is a professor at the University of Houston–Downtown. He previously served as an appellate judge and served 17 years with the Houston Police Department (HPD) beginning in 1967. Leaving HPD as Deputy Chief to become a prosecutor as an assistant U.S. attorney in the Southern District of Texas, until he was tapped as Chief of Police by Mayor Bob Lanier until leaving under the Lee Brown administration.\n\nHe and his wife Liz are residents of Waller County. They have three grown children and four grand children.\n\nHe rose in the ranks to deputy chief while attending college, first at Abilene Christian College and then at South Texas College of Law.\n\nHe was credited with a number of positive results under his tenure with the decrease of response times to High Priority calls to 4.4 minutes from a high of 6.1 minutes. \nA Special Response group was created to handle large crowds and special events, pay increases for senior officers across the ranks.\nA Woman's Advisory Council was created for female officers to be able to raise and review any concerns, and officers with 20 or more years of experience would be eligible for the Deferred Retirement Option program.\n\nHe wrote the opinion that overturned the conviction of Andrea Yates trial where the panel wrote, \"Dr Dietz's false testimony could have affected the judgment of the jury. We further conclude that Dr Dietz's false testimony affected the substantial rights of appellant.\" With that, it a retrial was granted.\n"}
{"id": "3130789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3130789", "title": "Sense of community", "text": "Sense of community\n\nSense of community (or psychological sense of community) is a concept in community psychology, social psychology, and community social work, as well as in several other research disciplines, such as urban sociology, which focuses on the \"experience\" of community rather than its structure, formation, setting, or other features. The latter is the province of public administration or community services administration which needs to understand how structures influence this feeling and psychological sense of community. Sociologists, social psychologists, anthropologists, and others have theorized about and carried out empirical research on community, but the psychological approach asks questions about the individual's perception, understanding, attitudes, feelings, etc. about community and his or her relationship to it and to others' participation—indeed to the complete, multifaceted community experience.\n\nIn his seminal 1974 book, psychologist Seymour B. Sarason proposed that psychological sense of community become the conceptual center for the psychology of community, asserting that it \"is one of the major bases for self-definition.\" By 1986 it was regarded as a central overarching concept for community psychology (Sarason, 1986; Chavis & Pretty, 1999).In addition, the theoretical concept entered the other applied academic disciplines as part of \"communities for all\" initiatives in the US.\n\nAmong theories of sense of community proposed by psychologists, McMillan & Chavis's (1986) is by far the most influential, and is the starting point for most of the recent research in the field. It is discussed in detail below.\n\nFor Sarason, psychological sense of community is \"the perception of similarity to others, an acknowledged interdependence with others, a willingness to maintain this interdependence by giving to or doing for others what one expects from them, and the feeling that one is part of a larger dependable and stable structure\" (1974, p. 157).\n\nMcMillan & Chavis (1986) define sense of community as \"a feeling that members have of belonging, a feeling that members matter to one another and to the group, and a shared faith that members' needs will be met through their commitment to be together.\"\n\nGusfield (1975) identified two dimensions of community: territorial and relational. The relational dimension of community has to do with the nature and quality of relationships in that community, and some communities may even have no discernible territorial demarcation, as in the case of a community of scholars working in a particular specialty, who have some kind of contact and quality of relationship, but may live and work in disparate locations, perhaps even throughout the world. Other communities may seem to be defined primarily according to territory, as in the case of neighborhoods, but even in such cases, proximity or shared territory cannot by itself constitute a community; the relational dimension is also essential.\n\nFactor analysis of their urban neighborhoods questionnaire yielded two distinct factors which Riger and Lavrakas (1981) characterized as \"social bonding\" and \"physical rootedness\", very similar to the two dimensions proposed by Gusfield.\nEarly work on psychological sense of community was based on neighborhoods as the referent, and found a relationship between psychological sense of community and greater participation (Hunter, 1975; Wandersman & Giamartino, 1980), perceived safety (Doolittle & McDonald, 1978), ability to function competently in the community (Glynn, 1981), social bonding (Riger & Lavrakas, 1981), social fabric (strengths of interpersonal relationship) (Ahlbrandt & Cunningham, 1979), greater sense of purpose and perceived control (Bachrach & Zautra, 1985), and greater civic contributions (charitable contributions and civic involvement) (Davidson & Cotter, 1986). These initial studies lacked a clearly articulated conceptual framework, however, and none of the measures developed were based on a theoretical definition of psychological sense of community.\n\nMcMillan & Chavis's (1986) theory (and instrument) are the most broadly validated and widely utilized in this area in the psychological literature. They prefer the abbreviated label \"sense of community\", and propose that sense of community is composed of four elements.\n\nThere are four elements of \"sense of community\" according to the McMillan & Chavis theory:\n\nMembership includes five attributes:\n\nInfluence works both ways: members need to feel that they have some influence in the group, and some influence by the group on its members is needed for group cohesion. Current researches (e.g. Chigbu, 2013) on rural and urban communities have found that sense of community is a major factor.\n\nMembers feel rewarded in some way for their participation in the community.\n\nThe \"definitive element for true community\" (1986, p. 14), it includes shared history and shared participation (or at least identification with the history).\n\nMcMillan & Chavis (1986) give the following example to illustrate the dynamics within and between these four elements (p. 16):\nSomeone puts an announcement on the dormitory bulletin board about the formation of an intramural dormitory basketball team. People attend the organizational meeting as strangers out of their individual needs (integration and fulfillment of needs). The team is bound by place of residence (membership boundaries are set) and spends time together in practice (the contact hypothesis). They play a game and win (successful shared valent event). While playing, members exert energy on behalf of the team (personal investment in the group). As the team continues to win, team members become recognized and congratulated (gaining honor and status for being members). Someone suggests that they all buy matching shirts and shoes (common symbols) and they do so (influence).\n\nIn their 2002 study of a community of interest, specifically the science fiction fandom community, Obst, Zinkiewicz, and Smith suggest Conscious Identification as the fifth dimension (Obst, 2002).\n\nChavis et al.'s Sense of Community Index (SCI) (see Chipuer & Pretty, 1999; Long & Perkins, 2003), originally designed primarily in reference to neighborhoods, can be adapted to study other communities as well, including the workplace, schools, religious communities, communities of interest, etc.\n\n\nChicago\n\n"}
{"id": "54615538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54615538", "title": "Solution Tree", "text": "Solution Tree\n\nSolution Tree is a professional development company and publisher of educational material for K–12 educators. Founded in 1998, the company provides services and products that include books, videos, conferences, workshops, consultation, and online courses. Solution Tree authors and consultants provide guidance to schools and districts on topics such as professional learning communities, response to intervention, educational assessment, and Common Core State Standards.\n\nSolution Tree provides training, consultation, and resources to help schools and districts implement the PLC at Work™ process. The process focuses on three concepts: ensuring that students learn, creating a culture of collaboration, and producing results. It was first introduced in 1998 with Professional Learning Communities at Work™ by Richard DuFour and Robert Eaker. The implementation handbook, Learning by Doing by Richard DuFour, Rebecca DuFour, Robert Eaker, and Thomas W. Many, was released in 2006 and provides strategies for building and sustaining PLCs. \n\nSolution Tree also operates allthingsPLC.info, an online resource that provides helps educators in PLCs collaborate in an online global learning community. Through the website, schools and districts can apply to become model PLCs, which requires that applicants meet a set of criteria and reapply annually. Four times per year, Solution Tree publishes the AllThingsPLC Magazine, which features information about PLCs and personal commentaries from educators.\n\nSolution Tree collaborates with thought-leaders in education topics, such as Richard DuFour (PLCs), Robert J. Marzano (evidence-based education), James Bellanca (deeper learning), Timothy Kanold (mathematics), Kurt W. Fischer (educational neuroscience), and Will Richardson (technology in education). The company often publishes and partners with professionals currently in the education industry to provide their expertise in education. This has raised questions in transparency in private earning by school officials. Proponents argue that it represents a shift toward educational materials being written by educators and is driven by the desire to produce the best results. \n\nSolution Tree provides various forms of professional development for educators. Working at the school or district level, Solution Tree offers short or long-term PD, from one-day events or workshops to in-depth, long term arrangements. In 2014, Solution Tree launched Global PD, an online tool designed to help schools and districts facilitate the work of PLCs. \n\nIn 2017, Solution Tree acquired Hawker Brownlow Professional Learning Solutions (HBPLS).\n\n"}
{"id": "36257554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36257554", "title": "Steven Skiena", "text": "Steven Skiena\n\nSteven Sol Skiena (born January 30, 1961) is a Distinguished Teaching Professor of Computer Science at Stony Brook University.\nHe was co-founder of General Sentiment, a social media and news analytics company, and served as Chief Science Officer from 2009 to 2015.\nHis research interests include algorithm design and its applications to biology. Skiena is the author of several popular books in the fields of algorithms, programming, and mathematics.\n\"The Algorithm Design Manual\" is widely used as an undergraduate text in algorithms and within the tech industry for job interview preparation. In 2001, Skiena was awarded the IEEE Computer Science and Engineering Undergraduate Teaching Award \"for outstanding contributions to undergraduate education in the areas of algorithms and discrete mathematics and for influential textbook and software.\"\n\nSkiena has worked on algorithmic problems in synthetic biology, and, in particular, issues of optimal gene design for a given protein under various constraints.\nIn collaboration with virologist Eckard Wimmer, he has worked to computationally design synthetic viruses for use as attenuated vaccines.\nTheir Synthetic Attenuated Virus Engineering (SAVE) approach has been validated in flu and experiments with other viruses are ongoing.\nA popular account of this work appears in Dennis Shasha and Cathy Lazare's \"Natural Computing.\"\n\nSkiena played a role in the conception of the Apple iPad.\nIn 1988, Skiena and his team won a competition run by Apple to design the \"Computer of the Year 2000\".\nTheir design, a tablet featuring a touch screen, GPS, and wireless communications was similar in many regards to the iPad of 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32724180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32724180", "title": "Stock Market Learning", "text": "Stock Market Learning\n\nStock Market Learning is an international competition run by the Savings Banks in Europe with the support of the European Savings Banks Group (ESBG) based in Brussels. It aims to provide pupils a better understanding of the stock market and of the economic and financial world by simulating transactions in stock exchanges. The competition was held for the first time in Germany in 1983, while the Savings Banks in Europe became actively involved in 1999. By 2010, over 1 million teams had taken part in the initiative.\n\nEach team is assigned an account with virtual capital that is to be used to buy and sell securities. The purpose is to increase initial assets by conducting individual investing strategies. While capital is virtual, trading is based on real stock prices at certain stock exchanges.\n\nThe list of tradable securities consists primarily of shares but also includes fixed-interests securities and investment funds. Since 2009, there is both a conventional and sustainability competition. The former takes into consideration the total performance of the account, whereas the latter is based on the sustainability account value, i.e. on the earnings gained from shares listed in a sustainability index.\n\nIn 2010, Stock Market Learning received the official UN Decade Project of Education for Sustainable Development award from the German Commission for UNESCO.\n\n"}
{"id": "24083495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24083495", "title": "Suicide among LGBT youth", "text": "Suicide among LGBT youth\n\nResearch has found that attempted suicide rates and suicidal ideation among lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) youth is significantly higher than among the general population. LGBT adolescents have the highest rate of suicide attempts, which scientific research indicates is linked to homophobic attitudes and heterosexist discrimination, including political attacks on the civil rights of LGBT people, such as in the contemporary efforts to halt the establishment of same-sex marriage.\n\nThe passage of laws that discriminate against LGBT people have been shown to have significant negative impacts on the physical and mental health and well-being of LGBT youth; for example, depression and drug use among LGBT people have been shown to increase significantly after the passage of discriminatory laws. By contrast, the passage of laws that recognize LGBT people as equal with regard to civil rights have been shown to have significant positive impacts on the physical and mental health and well-being of LGBT youth; for example, a study of nationwide data from across the United States from January 1999 to December 2015 revealed that the establishment of same-sex marriage is associated with a significant reduction in the rate of attempted suicide among children, with the effect being concentrated among children of a minority sexual orientation (LGB youth), resulting in approximately 134,000 fewer children attempting suicide each year in the United States.\n\nBullying of LGBT youth has been shown to be a contributing factor in many suicides, even if not all of the attacks have been specifically regarding sexuality or gender. Since a series of suicides in the early 2000s, more attention has been focused on the issues and underlying causes in an effort to reduce suicides among LGBT youth. Research by the Family Acceptance Project has demonstrated that \"parental acceptance, and even neutrality, with regard to a child's sexual orientation\" can bring down the attempted suicide rate.\n\nThe National Action Alliance for Suicide Prevention notes that there is no national data (for the U.S.) regarding suicidal ideation or suicide rates among the LGBT population as a whole or in part, for LGBT youth or LGBT seniors, for example. In part because there is no agreed percentage of the national population that is LGBT, or even identifies as LGBT, death certificates do not include sexuality information. A 1986 study noted that previous large scale studies of completed suicides did not \"consider sexual orientation in their data analyses\".\n\nClinical social worker Caitlin Ryan's Family Acceptance Project (San Francisco State University) conducted the first study of the effect of family acceptance and rejection on the health, mental health and well-being of LGBT youth, including suicide, HIV/AIDS and homelessness. Their research shows that LGBT youths \"who experience high levels of rejection from their families during adolescence (when compared with those young people who experienced little or no rejection from parents and caregivers) were more than eight times likely to have attempted suicide, more than six times likely to report high levels of depression, more than three times likely to use illegal drugs and more than three times likely to be at high risk for HIV or other STDs\" by the time they reach their early 20s.\n\nNumerous studies have shown that lesbian, gay, and bisexual youth have a higher rate of suicide attempts than do heterosexual youth. The Suicide Prevention Resource Center synthesized these studies and estimated that between 5 and 10% of LGBT youth, depending on age and sex groups, have attempted suicide, a rate 1.5-3 times higher than heterosexual youth. A U.S. government study, titled \"Report of the Secretary's Task Force on Youth Suicide\", published in 1989, found that LGBT youth are four times more likely to attempt suicide than other young people. This higher prevalence of suicidal ideation and overall mental health problems among gay teenagers compared to their heterosexual peers has been attributed to minority stress. \"More than 34,000 people die by suicide each year,\" making it \"the third leading cause of death among 15 to 24 year olds with lesbian, gay, and bisexual youth attempting suicide up to four times more than their heterosexual peers.\"\n\nIt is impossible to know the exact suicide rate of LGBT youth because sexuality and gender minorities are often hidden and even unknown, particularly in this age group. Further research is currently being done to explain the prevalence of suicide among LGBT youths.\n\nIn terms of school climate, \"approximately 25 percent of lesbian, gay and bisexual students and university employees have been harassed due to their sexual orientation, as well as a third of those who identify as transgender, according to the study and reported by the Chronicle of Higher Education.\" Research has found the presence of gay-straight alliances (GSAs) in schools is associated with decreased suicide attempts; in a study of LGBT youth, ages 13–22, 16.9% of youth who attended schools with GSAs attempted suicide versus 33.1% of students who attended schools without GSAs.\n\n\"LGBT students are three times as likely as non-LGBT students to say that they do not feel safe at school (22% vs. 7%) and 90% of LGBT students (vs. 62% of non-LGBT teens) have been harassed or assaulted during the past year.\" In addition, \"LGBQ students were more likely than heterosexual students to have seriously considered leaving their institution as a result of harassment and discrimination.\" Susan Rankin, a contributing author to the report in Miami, found that “Unequivocally, The 2010 State of Higher Education for LGBT People demonstrates that LGBT students, faculty and staff experience a ‘chilly’ campus climate of harassment and far less than welcoming campus communities.\"\n\nThe internet is also an important factor for LGBT. An international study found that suicidal LGBT showed important differences with suicidal heterosexuals, in a matched-pairs study. That study found suicidal LGBT were more likely to communicate suicidal intentions, more likely to search for new friends online, and found more support online than did suicidal heterosexuals.\n\nAccording to a study in Taiwan, 1 in 5 or 20% of Taiwanese gay people have attempted suicide.\n\nThe black transgender and gender non-conforming community has been found to face discrimination to a higher degree than the rest of the transgender community, which is due to the intersection of racism and transphobia. Research has found that this community experiences a higher level of poverty, suicide attempts, and harassment, while the effects of HIV and being refused health care due to transphobia and/or racism are greater as well. The National LGBTQ task force conducted a survey to discern these trends among the black transgender non-conforming community in with the overall transgender community. \n\nThe survey found that amongst the black respondents 49% reported having attempted suicide. Additional findings were that this group reported that 26% are unemployed and 34% reported an annual income of less than $10,000 per year. 42% of respondents reported homelessness which is five times the rate of the US homelessness rate. Also, the report revealed that the black transgender or gender non-conforming community reported 20.23% were living with HIV. 27% of black transgender youth reported being physically assaulted, 15% were sexually assaulted and 21% left school due to these instances of harassment.\n\nThe establishment of same-sex marriage is associated with a significant reduction in the rate of attempted suicide among children, with the effect being concentrated among children of a minority sexual orientation (LGB youth). A study of nationwide data from across the United States from January 1999 to December 2015 revealed that the rate of attempted suicide among all schoolchildren in grades 9–12 declined by 7% and the rate of attempted suicide among schoolchildren of a minority sexual orientation (LGB youth) in grades 9–12 declined by 14% in states which established same-sex marriage, resulting in approximately 134,000 fewer children attempting suicide each year in the United States. The researchers took advantage of the gradual manner in which same-sex marriage was established in the United States (expanding from 1 state in 2004 to all 50 states in 2015) to compare the rate of attempted suicide among children in each state over the time period studied. Once same-sex marriage was established in a particular state, the reduction in the rate of attempted suicide among children in that state became permanent. No reduction in the rate of attempted suicide among children occurred in a particular state until that state recognized same-sex marriage. The lead researcher of the study observed that \"laws that have the greatest impact on gay adults may make gay kids feel more hopeful for the future\".\n\nThe diathesis-stress model suggests that biological vulnerabilities predispose individuals to different conditions such as cancer, heart disease, and mental health conditions like major depression, a risk factor for suicide. Varying amounts of environmental stress increase the probability that these individuals will develop that condition. Minority stress theory suggests that minority status leads to increased discrimination from the social environment which leads to greater stress and health problems. In the presence of poor emotion regulation skills this can lead to poor mental health. Also, the differential susceptibility hypothesis suggests that for some individuals their physical and mental development is highly dependent on their environment in a “for-better-and-for-worse” fashion. That is, individuals who are highly susceptible will have better than average health in highly supportive environments and significantly worse than average health in hostile, violent environments. The model can help explain the unique health problems affecting LGBT populations including increased suicide attempts. For adolescents, the most relevant environments are the family, neighborhood, and school. Adolescent bullying - which is highly prevalent among sexual minority youths - is a chronic stressor that can increase risk for suicide via the diathesis-stress model. In a study of American lesbian, gay, and bisexual adolescents, Mark Hatzenbuehler examined the effect of the county-level social environment. This was indexed by the proportion of same-sex couples and Democrats living in the counties. Also included were the proportions of schools with gay-straight alliances as well as anti-bullying and antidiscrimination policies that include sexual orientation. He found that a more conservative social environment elevated risk in suicidal behavior among all youth and that this effect was stronger for LGB youth. Furthermore, he found that the social environment partially mediated the relation between LGB status and suicidal behaviour. Hatzenbuehler found that even after such social as well as individual factors were controlled for, however, that \"LGB status remained a significant predictor of suicide attempts.\"\n\nInstitutionalized and internalized homophobia may also lead LGBT youth to not accept themselves and have deep internal conflicts about their sexual orientation. Parents may abandon or force children out of home after the child's coming out.\n\nHomophobia arrived at by any means can be a gateway to bullying which can take many forms. Physical bullying is kicking, punching, while emotional bullying is name calling, spreading rumors and other verbal abuse. Cyber bullying involves abusive text messages or messages of the same nature on Facebook, Twitter, and other social media networks. Sexual bullying is inappropriate touching, lewd gestures or jokes.\n\nBullying may be considered a \"rite of passage\", but studies have shown it has negative physical and psychological effects. \"Sexual minority youth, or teens that identify themselves as gay, lesbian or bisexual, are bullied two to three times more than heterosexuals\", and \"almost all transgender students have been verbally harassed (e.g., called names or threatened in the past year at school because of their sexual orientation (89%) and gender expression (89%)\") according to Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network's \"Harsh Realities, The Experiences of Transgender Youth In Our Nation’s Schools\".\n\nThis issue has been a hot topic for media outlets over the past few years, and even more so in the months of September and October 2010. President Barack Obama has posted an \"It Gets Better\" video on The White House website as part of the It Gets Better Project. First lady Michelle Obama attributes such behaviors to the examples parents set as, in most cases, children follow their lead.\n\n\"The Trevor Project was founded by director/producer Peggy Rajski, producer Randy Stone and screenwriter James Lecesne, creators of the 1994 Academy Award-winning short film, \"Trevor\", a comedy/drama about a gay 13-year-old boy who, when rejected by friends because of his sexuality, makes an attempt to take his life.\" They are an American non-profit organization that operates the only nationwide, around-the-clock crisis and suicide prevention helpline for LGBT youth, the project \"is determined to end suicide among LGBTQ youth by providing life-saving and life-affirming resources including our nationwide, 24/7 crisis intervention lifeline, digital community and advocacy/educational programs that create a safe, supportive and positive environment for everyone.\"\n\nIt Gets Better Project is an Internet-based campaign founded in the US by Dan Savage and his partner Terry Miller in September 2010, in response to the suicides of teenagers who were bullied because they were gay or because their peers suspected that they were gay. The videos that were posted emphasized the idea that hope is possible despite the bullying that LGBT individuals may face. Its goal is to prevent suicide among LGBT youth by having gay adults convey the message through social media videos that these teens' lives will improve. The project has grown rapidly: over 200 videos were uploaded in the first week, and the project's YouTube channel reached the 650 video limit in the next week. The project is now organized on its own website, the It Gets Better Project, and includes more than 30,000 entries with more than 40 million views from people of all sexual orientations, including many celebrities. A book of essays from the project, \"\", was released in March 2011.\n\nIn 2017 news emerged of a study that found that asking youth to accept negative experiences as the only coping strategy, potentially exacerbates stress. This study from the University of Arizona, led to claims that the It Gets Better Project may do more harm than good.\n\nA number of policy options have been repeatedly proposed to address this issue. Some advocate intervention at the stage in which youth are already suicidal (such as crisis hotlines), while others advocate programs directed at increasing LGBT youth access to factors found to be \"protective\" against suicide (such as social support networks or mentors).\n\nOne proposed option is to provide LGBT-sensitivity and anti-bullying training to current middle and high school counselors and teachers. Citing a study by Jordan et al., school psychologist Anastasia Hansen notes that hearing teachers make homophobic remarks or fail to intervene when students make such remarks are both positively correlated with negative feelings about an LGBT identity Conversely, a number of researchers have found the presence of LGBT-supportive school staff to be related to \"positive outcomes for LGBT youth\". Citing a 2006 Psychology in the Schools report, The Trevor Project notes that \"lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and questioning (LGBTQ) youth who believe they have just one school staff member with whom they can talk about problems are only 1/3 as likely as those without that support to... report making multiple suicide attempts in the past year.\"\n\nAnother frequently proposed policy option involves providing grant incentives for schools to create and/or support Gay-Straight Alliances, student groups dedicated to providing a social support network for LGBT students. Kosciw and Diaz, researchers for the Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network, found in a nationwide survey that \"students in schools with a GSA were less likely to feel unsafe, less likely to miss school, and more likely to feel that they belonged at their school than students in schools with no such clubs.\" Studies have shown that social isolation and marginalization at school are psychologically damaging to LGBT students, and that GSAs and other similar peer-support group can be effective providers of this \"psychosocial support\".\n\nEducators can be proactive in helping adolescents with gender identity and the questions/ issues that sometimes come that can help teens so that they do not resort to suicide, drug abuse, homelessness, and many psychological problems. Van Wormer & McKinney (2003) relate that understanding LBGT students is the first step to suicide prevention. They use a harm reduction approach, which meets students where they are to reduce any continued harm linked with their behaviors. They relate that creating a supportive and culturally diverse environment is crucial to social acceptance in an educational setting.\n\nIt is beneficial to hire LGBT teachers to serve as role models and support LGBT students. Many of the resources in the U.S. are crisis driven not prevention driven which needs to be the other way around in order to prevent suicide for LGBT adolescents. Furthermore, studies show that counselors and teachers need to be trained in self-awareness, sexuality and sexual diversity with themselves and with students. Researchers also suggest inviting gay/lesbian and bisexual panels from colleges or universities to conduct classroom discussions. Education and resources is key to helping LGBT students and families. According to researcher Rob Cover, role models and resources benefit LGBT youth only if they avoid replicating stereotypes and provide diverse visual and narrative representations to allow broad identification.\n\nHaving a PFLAG (Parents Families, and Friends of Lesbians and Gays) and GSA Club are possible resources to promote discussions and leadership roles to LGBT students. These resources extend outside of school and in the community. (Greytak, E. A., Kosciw, J. G., & Boesen, M. J. 2013) report that when schools have a GSA or Gay Straight Alliance club or a club promoting social awareness and camaraderie of sorts, supportive educators, inclusive curricula, and comprehensive policies that LGBT students were victimized less and had more positive school experiences. Students will feel positive and want to be in school.\n\nExamine a school's climate and teach tolerance – Teaching Tolerance is a movement, magazine and website which gives many tools and ideas to help people be tolerant of one another. It demonstrates that the classroom is a reflection of the world around us. Educators can use Teach Tolerance's website and book to download resources and look up creative ways to learn more about LBGT students and teaching tolerance to their students in the classroom. It helps schools get started with anti-bullying training and professional development and resource suggestions. It even relates common roadblocks and tips to starting a GSA club.\n\nResearch shows that a collaborative effort must be made in order to prevent LGBT students from being bullied and/or committing suicide. Teachers, administrators, students, families, and communities need to come together to help LGBT students be confident. Each school has its own individuality, its own sense of \"self\", whether it be the teachers, administrators, students, or the surrounding community. In order to tackle the issue of bullying for LGBT students it needs to start with understanding the student population and demographic where the school lies. Educating students, faculty, staff, and school boards on LGBT issues and eliminating homophobia and trans phobia in schools, training staff on diversity acceptance and bullying prevention, and implementing Gay-Straight Alliances is key to suicide prevention for LGBT students (Bacon, Laura Ann 2011). Adolescents grow and are shaped by many factors including internal and external features (Swearer, Espelage, Vaillancourt, & Hymel, 2010).\n\nThe school climate must foster respect. Thus, setting the tone for administration, teachers, professionals who enter the building, parents and most importantly the students. People, in general, need to understand their own misconceptions and stereotypes of what being LGBT is. Unless students and adults are educated on the LGBT community, than stereotypes and negative attitudes will continue to exist (Knotts, G., & Gregorio, D. 2011). The GMCLA (Gay Men's Chorus of Los Angeles) use music and singing as a vehicle for changing the attitudes and hearts of people in schools nationwide. Their goal is to bring music to standards-driven curriculum to youth with the purpose of teaching content in innovative and meaningful ways. They instill in students and staff techniques to foster positive meaning of the social and personal issues dealt with in school and society.\n\nGay, L. (2009) has generated a guide to helping school safety/climate and fostering positive interpersonal relationships through \"The Safe Space Kit\". This tool helps teachers create a safe space for LGBT students. One of the most effective ways for an educator to create a safe space is to be a supportive ally to LGBT students. This kit has numerous tools for teachers and schools to utilize, including: a hard copy of \"The Safe Space Kit\" includes the \"Guide to Being an Ally\", stickers and two Safe Space posters. Even utilizing something just to promote awareness, such as using \"The Safe Space Kit\" could be a good first step for schools to promote responsiveness to LGBT students. Providing some supports rather than none at all can benefit LGBT youth tremendously now and in the future (Greytak, et al. 2013).\n\nOBPP is an anti-bullying program designed by psychologist Dan Olweus utilized in schools in Europe, Canada and the U.S. Reductions in bullying were due to parent training, playground supervision, home-school communication, classroom rules, and training videos. Furthermore, Swearer, et al. (2010) discuss a \"dosage effect\" in which the more positive and consistent elements included in a program, the more the likelihood that bullying would decrease. Success in one school does not guarantee success in another because each school has its own social climate. The OBPP is effective but still needs to be analyzed further, since there are many things to consider when implementing this technique within a large school.\n\nSteps To Respect is an anti-bullying campaign which can be beneficial in schools as well – it is a comprehensive guide for teachers, administrators, and students utilizing in class lessons and training helping schools foster positive social-emotional skills and conflict resolution. If schools are able to change peer conduct and norms, increase student communication skills, and maintain adult prevention and intervention efforts, the positive effects of their work will strengthen over time (Frey, Edstrom & Hirschstein 2005) and continue to grow as each class progresses through the school system.\n\nAccording to Russell, S. T., McGuire, J. K., Laub, C., & Manke, E. (2006), it is imperative for educators to make subject and age appropriate lessons with LGBT issues incorporated into the curriculum on a consistent basis utilizing current events, history, literature, or social sciences. Teachers should be trained each year on new practices to employ in their classrooms and in school in general. They should be taught how to handle situations they may face with LGBT students, so that if a problem should arise, they will be confident in their own understandings of the LGBT community and know how to handle any question or situation professionally and empathetically. Russell, et al. (2006) report that state policy and government officials need to be mindful of the ever-changing culture we live in by enforcing and including material appropriate in schools to educate educators on LGBT people in the world.\n\nBurdge, H., Sinclair, K., Laub, C., Russell, S. T. (2012) relate numerous lessons, which each subject area teacher can teach to enforce LGBT inclusivity and school safety. They report that lessons, which promote LGBT inclusivity, can have the greatest impact on school safety. Physical education, health, history, and social studies teachers can educate all students to have more social awareness and create a positive school climate. They continue to note that inviting parents, teachers, administrators and other key stakeholders to identify and/or participate in the development of age-appropriate LGBT-inclusive lessons that teachers can use in their classrooms is most beneficial.\n\nEducators must continue to try new trends, constantly assessing the environment of their school. The best policies and interventions are those, which show positive growth across grade levels. Research should continue to see which programs suit the needs of different schools over a period of time. Since each school varies in many ways, it may be hard to report positive trends. One technique that works in one school may or may not work for another. Therefore, taking pieces of one technique and making it into something that molds best to each school and environment is key.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47668613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47668613", "title": "The British College", "text": "The British College\n\nThe British College (also known as TBC) is an independent institution located in Trade Tower Business Center Thapathali, Kathmandu. It was established in 2012 with the objective to provide undergraduate and post graduate courses of reputed UK Universities. The college is in partnership with University of the West of England (popularly known as UWE) and Leeds Beckett University (formerly known as Leeds Metropolitan University). The courses that TBC offers are focused on Business Studies and Computing. However, the college provides other courses such as GCE A Level, ACCA and CIMA as well.\n\nThe British Model College (also known as BMC) is a sister concern of The British College. The BMC runs all the activities under TBC and delivers A Level courses from Cambridge International Examination (CIE). \n\nTBC offers undergraduate as well as post graduate courses. The BBA (Hons) Business and Management degree is a 4-year course affiliated to UWE where the student studies one year of foundation level and three years of University course. \nThe post graduate courses offered by TBC are MBA (Graduate) along with MBA (Executive) from LBU and MSc in International Business Management (MIBM) from UWE.\n\nThe B.Sc (Hons) Computing and MSc. Information & Technology programme is run in partnership with Leeds Beckett University, UK. The courses entirely focuse on computer programming, database development, networking, website development, systems modelling and computer security.,\n\nThe Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) is the global body for professional accountants. This course is for those students who are looking to pursue a career in accountancy, management and finance.,\n\nThe British College offers CIMA classes. CIMA members are business decision makers who are fully engaged in selecting the services and the products their businesses need.\n\nAlong with these, there are other short term courses that The British College offers. They are - IELTS Preparatory Courses, Cambridge Business English Certificate, Pearson Test of English Academic\n\n"}
{"id": "83025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=83025", "title": "Tripos", "text": "Tripos\n\nAt the University of Cambridge, a Tripos (, plural 'Triposes') is any of the undergraduate examinations that qualify an undergraduate for a bachelor's degree or the courses taken by an undergraduate to prepare. For example, an undergraduate studying mathematics is said to be reading for the \"Mathematical Tripos\", whilst a student of English literature is reading for the \"English Tripos\". \n\nIn most traditional English universities, a student registers to study one field exclusively, rather than having \"majors\" or \"minors\" as in American, Australian, Canadian, or Scottish universities. In practice, however, most degrees may be fairly interdisciplinary in nature, depending on the subject. The multi-part tripos system at Cambridge also allows substantial changes in field between parts; the Natural Sciences Tripos is especially designed to allow a highly flexible curriculum across the sciences.\n\nThe word has an obscure etymology, but may be traced to the three-legged stool candidates once used to sit on when taking oral examinations (see \"tripod\"). An apocryphal legend says that students used to receive one leg of a stool in each of their three years of exams, receiving the whole stool at graduation. Another tradition holds that the name derives from the three brackets printed on the back of the voucher.\n\nInitially, the only way to obtain an honours degree at Cambridge was the Mathematical Tripos examination. Although John Jebb proposed reforms in 1772, but implementation was blocked by various matters such as lack of expertise in the smaller colleges in a wider range of subjects. Classed examinations in law were introduced in 1816 by James William Geldart, who was then Regius Professor of Civil Law. Although a classical tripos was created in 1822, it was only open to those who already had high honours in mathematics or those who were the sons of peers. This restriction ended around 1850, and triposes in the moral sciences and natural sciences were introduced in the 1860s.\n\nThe origin and evolution of the Cambridge Tripos can be found in William Clark's \"Academic Charisma and the Origin of the Research University\".\n\nA tripos is divided into two parts: \"Part I\", which is broadly based, and \"Part II\", which allows specialization within the student's chosen field. Since a bachelor's degree usually takes three years to complete, either Part I or Part II is two years, and the other one year. The details of this can vary from subject to subject. There is also an optional Part III offered in some subjects, such as the Mathematical Tripos; these are not required to complete a bachelor's degree. Some \"Part III\" courses allow the student to graduate with both a master's degree and a bachelor's degree: for example, scientific Part III courses allow the student to graduate with an M.Sci. degree in addition to the B.A. degree which all Cambridge graduates receive. The Engineering Tripos on the other hand is divided into Parts IA (spoken as: \"\"One A\"), IB (\"One B\"), IIA (\"Two A\"), and IIB (\"Two B\"\"), each corresponding to one academic year, and leads to the simultaneous awarding of the B.A. and M.Eng. degrees.\n\nStudents are examined formally at the end of each part and are awarded a degree classification for each part. The Part II classification is usually, but incorrectly, considered to be the classification for the overall degree. Most subjects are examined in all three years; for example, the Natural Sciences Tripos has examinations for Part IA, Part IB, Part II, and in some subjects, Part III. The English and History Triposes have preliminary rather than full examinations at the end of the first year.\n\nDegree regulations state that, to be awarded a degree, a student must have passed two honours examinations (i.e., two Tripos examinations) – this could include a Part I and a Part II, two Part I exams, or (in some cases) a Part I and a Part IA. From October 2011, students can only be awarded an honours degree if they have been awarded honours in a Part II or Part III examination; a combination of Part I examinations will allow a student to graduate with an Ordinary degree. All students must complete at least nine terms of residence (three years of study) – making it impossible for students to simply complete two one-year tripos parts. This makes it easy for an undergraduate to switch out of a subject. So a one-year Part I (or Part IA) must be followed by a two-year Part II, and usually vice versa. More exotic combinations are possible, with the permission of the student's college and prospective department, but some combinations create a four-year bachelor's degree. A few subjects – e.g. Management Studies, and Linguistics (prior to October 2010) – exist only as Part II, and can be preceded by any manner of Part I subject.\n\nStudents who already possess a bachelor's degree or equivalent from another university are generally permitted to skip Part I, and thus can complete a Cambridge bachelor's degree in two years or less. Students already holding a BA degree from Cambridge are not permitted to collect a second BA from the University.\n\nA student requesting to graduate (technically, 'admitted to a degree') is assessed mainly on two criteria: not only the Triposes they have completed (requirements laid by the statues and ordinance of Cambridge), as recorded in the Cambridge University Reporter (Cambridge's gazette newspaper), but also the number of terms kept (at least nine required for a BA; 10 for an undergraduate master's degree). A student's requests to graduate should also be approved by their college, and be unopposed by the regent house, one of the university's governing bodies with vetoing powers.\n\nBelow is the list of Triposes offered by the University (Latin numerals in brackets indicate the Parts available):\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35193468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35193468", "title": "Tsui Tin-Chau", "text": "Tsui Tin-Chau\n\nTsui Tin-Chau (born in Hong Kong, 1958) (jiaxiang: Guangdong, Zhongshan) is a Chinese-born Dutchman who is well known in the Chinese community in the Netherlands. He emigrated to the Netherlands in 1972.\n\nAfter graduating from secondary school, he completed his studies at the Katholieke pedagogische Academie (Catholic Pedagogical Academy) in Maastricht and his study in Chinese Languages and Cultures at Leiden University.\n\nTsui teaches Chinese in both secondary and tertiary education. In addition, he develops educational tools and teaching methods for Chinese language courses and Chinese language (weekend) schools. His course \"Chinees? 'n makkie\" (Chinese? Piece of cake)<ref name=\"http://www.selexyz.nl/product/9789046900611/t-c-tsui/chinees-n-makkie/?channel_code=210&product_code=27221923&s2m_campaign=top5000_boektitels&gclid=CMG7guP0_K4CFcGEDgodBH2J3g\"></ref> is well known. Until 2010, he was a teacher at Eijkhagen College/Charlemagne College in the Dutch province of Limburg.\n\nTsui is known in the Chinese community in the Netherlands primarily because of the Chinese broadcast on the Dutch channel NPS, \"snelle berichten Nederland-China\" (Quick Messages Netherlands-China). From 1996 to 2005, he presented the Dutch course \"Aa Laa (alle) dingen Yeung Yeung Sóow/阿啦dingen樣樣數\" (“All things Yeung Yeung Sóow/阿啦things樣樣數\"). He also presented the course \"\"Dag in dag uit Nederlands/荷语日日讲\" (Dutch every day 荷语日日讲). Together with Chow Yiu-Fai, Tsui hosted light-hearted summer programs like \"Yauw Moow Kôk Tsôh有冇搅错\"\".\n\nIn addition to teaching methods and educational tools, Tsui has published the following works:\n\nSinology\n"}
{"id": "33006048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33006048", "title": "UNSW Institute of Languages", "text": "UNSW Institute of Languages\n\nUNSW Institute of Languages is the longest-standing provider of university English language courses in Australia and has been operating for over 40 years. Courses at the Institute assist international and local students in developing their general, professional and academic English skills for university admission, professional accreditation and personal development.\nIn addition to English language courses, the Institute also offers courses in language teacher training, test preparation for a range of English and foreign language proficiency exams and part-time study in 10 foreign languages.\n\nThe UNSW Institute of Languages offers courses for international and domestic students. Some courses prepare students for study at the UNSW Foundation Studies program at UNSW and other Australian universities, while others have been specifically designed for vocational or general purposes. \nThere are different courses on offer for international and domestic students.\n\nInternational students can undertake study to address three main areas of English language ability:\n\nDomestic students can undertake study in the following streams:\n\nThe Institute offers a series of customised courses and study tours under the Elite Programs banner. These include short- and long-term English courses for languages teachers as well as tailored courses for university staff and groups of university students from partner institutions.\n\nThe UNSW Institute of Languages is a registered examination site for a range of Australian and international English and other language testing systems. The Institute administers the following examinations:\n\nThe UNSW Institute of Languages has purpose-built facilities at both UNSW’s Kensington and Randwick campuses in Sydney, Australia. In addition to accessing the Institute’s facilities, students taking languages courses can also access a range of UNSW facilities including the library, sports facilities and health centres.\n\n"}
{"id": "37223375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37223375", "title": "Valeria Archimó", "text": "Valeria Archimó\n\nValeria Constanza Archimaut (born January 14, 1972), known as Valeria Archimó, is an Argentine theater dancer, supervedette, choreographer and theater creative director. She is known for participating in many dance competitions, including the Second Dance World Championship in which she ended in 3rd place alongside her dance partner, Juan Leandro Nimo. Archimó is also known for her work and is many times compared with fellow supervedettes, Adabel Guerrero and Mónica Farro.\n\nIn early 2007 Archimó, who at the time was still known by her family French name (Archimaut) got signed into the mixed revue and musical comedy, \"Irresistible, Otra Historia De Humor\", sequel to, \"Inolvidable, Una Historia De Humor\". She stud as the first vedette of the show, others in the musical where Adabel Guerrero and Sabrina Ravelli, the lead dancers and outstanding vedettes. Sergio Marcos was the head writer, Reina Reech was the creative director and Miguel Ángel Cherruti was the head producer, apart from acting in the theatre magazine. Carmen Barbieri was its lead figure dancing, acting, singing, making monologs and even directing. In 2008 she re-signed to continue with Barbier and Cherruti in their second sequel, \"Incomparable, El Humor Continúa\", but this time she would work as the head choreographer and not as a figure in the musical. The figures where: Matías Sayágo, Cristian Ponce, Vanina Escudero, Adabel Guerrero, Rodrigo Rodríguez, Diego Reinhold, Celina Rucci, Miguel Ángel Cherutti and led by Carmen Barbieri, directed by Cherruti and Reech. That year she was the first vedette-dancer of \"Planeta Show\".\n\nArchimaut would later on in 2008 return to work with Guerrero and also with Mónica Farro as the three co-lead first vedettes of the musical \"La Fiesta Está En El Lago\", led by Florencia De La V and el Negro Álvarez. As always she showed her great acrobatic dance ability in her owned self-choreographed dance numbers and continued in the revue throw all 2009 and continued in the company's sequel, \"Y Ahora, La Fiesta Está En El Tabarís\". This time she was the single first vedette of the magazine show, being that Farro when to work on Barbieri's alternative revue (still in the same theater company) and later on continuing to work with el Negro Álvarez as his supervedette and her own producer and Guerrero moved to a more classical musical comedy and numerous revue shows being let by her as well as recording music. In 2010 Valeria went to perform in \"Gracias A La Villa\" alongside a large cast of vedettes, actors, dancers and comedians.\n\nIn 2011 and 2012 Archimó was the co-lead vedette alongside María Eugenia Ritó in the revue-musical dance hall, La Revista De Buenos Aires. The shows creative director was Reina Reech and the lead figure was Moria Casán. The other vedettes in the revue where Stefanía Xipolitakis, Andrea Rincon, Lorena Liggi and María Eugenia Bassi and also male dancers, actors and comedians Raúl Lavie, Juan Acosta, Carlos Bernarl and Juan Pablo Bataglia.\n\nIn 2012 Valeria signed to star alongside television presenter Jorge Rial, his wife, vedette, actress and model Mariana Loly Antoniale and the great Cacho Castaña in a musical hall theater show that at the moment was still unnamed for the 2012-13 theatrical summer season, produced by her husband Guillermo Marín and do to debut on December 12–15 in the theatre, \"La Féliz\" in the city of Mar del Plata. She would have four dance numbers choreographed by herself and takes credit as the creative director. On November 17, information about the musical was published indicating that Rial will have a number in which he performs as an astronaut and Antoniale has been excluted from the show. On December 21, after many changes done to the still not debuted musical hall, it was confirmed that the musical debuted that same day and that it was being called, \"RIALidad en el City\" without the participation of Cacho Castaña, but with the participation of humorist, Claudio Rico and a body of renown dancers: \"Juan Pablo Bataglia, Vero Pérez, Cristian Ponce, Fran Arriagada, Emilia Chaya, Natalia Franchi, Matías Sayago and Inés Zúnino\". The general idea and production of the musical was made by Rial and Archimó.\n\nArchimó first participated in \"Bailando...\" in 2007 as a simple replacement for model Celina Rucci (the winner of that season) alongside professional dance partner, Matías Sayago.\n\nIn 2008 Valeria participated in the fifth season of ShowMatch, hosted by Marcelo Tinelli. She danced alongside professional dancer and model Juan Leandro Nimo with whom she also participated in Bailando por un Sueño: Segundo Campeonato Mundial de Baile. She finished in third place in both competitions. Mónica Farro and Adabel Guerrero both were competitors in the fifth season as well, they finished at eighth place (Farro) and sixth place (Guerrero).\n\nArchimó had a special participation in \"El Musical de tus Sueños\" in 2009 dancing on doble stripper poles alongside Mónica Farro opening up for the special edition re-entry gala (in which Guerrero entered).\n\nIn 2012 she was cast in Bailando 2012 with amputee salsa dancer, Reinaldo Ojeda as her dance partner. Gala after gala tension between Archimó and Ojeda was noticed and was exploited when Archimó was replaced in the fifth round by Guerrero because she had to travel and Ojeda admitted that he was more comfort with Adabel then with Valeria. Valeria returned for the next gala, where she confronted Ojeda after they performed and later on in the media where she decided to quit, being permanently replaced by Guerrero.\n\n"}
{"id": "13519358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13519358", "title": "Voice teacher", "text": "Voice teacher\n\nA voice teacher or singing teacher is a musical instructor who assists adults and children in the development of their abilities in singing.\n\nA voice teacher works with a student singer to improve the various skills involved in singing.\n\nThese skills include breath control and support, tone production and resonance, pitch control and musical intonation, proper formation of vowels and consonants as well as clarity of words, blending the various high and low ranges of a voice (called \"registration\"), as well as attentiveness to musical notation and phrasing, and the learning of songs. The voice teacher might operate in a private studio or be affiliated with a college or university faculty.\n\nStudents usually start vocal instruction after their voices have settled in later teen years. Part of the job of any voice teacher is to know a student’s vocal characteristics sufficiently well to identify their voice type. Women are usually classified in one of three categories: soprano, mezzo-soprano, and contralto. Men's voices are divided into four categories: countertenor, tenor, baritone, and bass. However, more mature and experienced singers who have completed their professional training can usually benefit from ongoing vocal instruction. At this point it is often referred to as vocal coaching. A vocal coach may help a student to learn new repertoire or assist the student to learn diction in different languages. Vocal coaches may also help vocalists to improve their singing technique, take care of and develop their voice, and prepare for the performance of a song or other work.\n\nThe training and education of singing teachers varies widely. Teachers are generally trained in \"vocal pedagogy\", the study of the teaching of singing. Some voice teachers are members of professional associations such as the National Association of Teachers of Singing or NATS. Some singing teachers have extensive formal training, such as a Bachelor's in Music, a Master's in Music, a Conservatory diploma, or degrees in related areas, such as foreign languages, or diplomas in human kinetics, posture techniques, or breathing methods. Several American universities now offer graduate degrees in vocal pedagogy. Programs at smaller colleges include The Boston Conservatory, the music conservatory at Shenandoah University, and Westminster Choir College, and there are programs as several large universities, such as Arizona State University, the University of North Texas, The Ohio State University, and the University of Iowa.\n\nOn the other hand, some singing teachers may have little formal training, and so they rely on their extensive experience as a performer. For example, some singers had decades of solo stage experience prior to becoming singing teachers, in recitals, oratorios, operas, operettas, or musical theater. \n\nSinging teachers may also come to their profession through related musical professions. Some singing teachers began as rehearsal pianists and they gained decades of experience accompanying singers in different styles. As well, some singing teachers learn their craft by starting as choral, music theater, or symphony conductors. \n\nThe singing teacher field is competitive, especially at the highest professional levels. Salaries vary greatly, as do the conditions of work. While a small number of top singing teachers can command very high hourly or daily rates, most singing teachers, like most other music and arts professionals, tend to have salaries which are below the average for other professions which require a similar amount of education and experience, such as economists or bank managers. The work conditions vary widely, from part-time or occasional freelance work teaching individual singers, to full-time contracts or multi-year jobs for universities teaching vocal performance students.\n\n"}
{"id": "47054039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47054039", "title": "Études Sans Frontières International", "text": "Études Sans Frontières International\n\nEtudes Sans Frontières International (commonly known as ESFI and Studies Without Borders International) is the international federation of existing chapters and members that adhere to the values, objectives, methods, statute and internal rules of the Etudes Sans Frontières movement (ESF), in order to be able to carry the name Etudes Sans Frontières. The federation is registered in Paris as a non-profit organization (Loi 1901), which relies on international volunteers to help develop its programs.\nThe aim of ESFI is to improve access for young adults from crisis regions to higher education and targeted practical qualifications – which otherwise would not be accessible to them because of the situation in their country – so as to enhance their willingness and capability to commit themselves to the (re-)construction of a peaceful, free and fair society in their home country.\n\nThis term refers to any national or sub-national area worldwide whose population faces violent conflict, post-conflict challenges, severe political oppression, a failed state situation, extreme poverty or environmental disasters, leading to severely restricted access to higher education or a severely reduced capacity of the higher education system.\n\nCurrently ESFI has higher education programs implying students from Rwanda, Democratic Republic of Congo, Haiti, Chechnya and Afghanistan. Whenever possible, ESFI helps these students study in their home countries by offering full scholarship programs that cover living and study expenses.\n\nESFI also helps advance education facilities in crisis regions, develops e-learning, internship programs wherever possible and networking and offers capacity-building workshops to its members. All ESFI activities are meant to enhance sustainable development and peace by supporting motivated individuals to engage in meaningful positive change in their region.\n\nStudents who are offered grants to study outside of their home country (in Europe and North America for example) are carefully selected with reference to their academic performance, motivation, language skills, capacity to adapt to Western systems of higher education and most of all on their «return project» (i.e. in what way concretely they hope to make use of the new skills and capabilities they have mastered with their studies abroad). They are requested to honour a formal agreement – they have signed and sent before leaving for their studies abroad – to return to their home country once they have completed their studies and requirements of their bursary.\n\nESFI also aims to raise worldwide public awareness and solidarity on situations prevailing in crisis regions from which their scholarship students come, by the organization of public information activities, conferences, debates, film presentations, etc. and fundraising events.\n\nIts network of volunteer is made up mostly of university students, employees and retirees from academic executive jobs, but its donators come from every walk of life. Volunteers and donators offer their skills and experience to support the movement and the organization and create a solid international network, since its beginning.\n\nAll ESFI members and persons who benefit from activities carried out in the name of Etudes Sans Frontières are requested to respect and promote these values:\ninternational, intercultural and intergenerational solidarity;\nESFI is based on the belief that these values are universal and that their origin cannot be claimed by any particular culture or society. At the same time, it acknowledges and respects the rich cultural diversity of human societies.\n\nThe first chapter of Etudes Sans Frontières that started the international movement was founded as a non profit organization in 2003 in Paris by students and members of the French civil society. It emerged as the second Chechen war was raging in the Caucasus and students from the Grozny University lost numerous professors to the war and bombs destroyed part of their university building and library.\n\nA handful of French students with the help of many volunteers troubled by the terrible situation these students had to endure to acquire an education started the movement by welcoming to Paris a first cohort of 9 students in 2003 – 21 Chechen students were offered bursaries over a period of six years afterwards – who completed studies in such diverse disciplines as journalism, sociology, psychology, political science, architecture, administration, fashion, languages, etc.\n\nThe French chapter also helped Rwandan orphans to resume their studies in Rwanda after the genocide of 1994 and the following years of chaos. The impetus gained in the community by the implication of these young students prompted the local authorities to install electricity in the village, which radically changed the life of the people.\n\nThe movement started by Etudes Sans Frontières in France rapidly picked up momentum when renowned international public figures such as Bronislaw Geremek, André Glucksman, Elena Bonner, Youri Afanassief, Pascal Bruckner, Jack Lang, Pierre Hassner, Pierre Lellouche, Josep Ramoneda, Jacques Rupnik, Walter Veltroni and many others helped secure funds to offer grants to Chechen students. The president of this prestigious Honours Committee was the no less respected dissident playwright and first president of the Czech Republic, Vaclav Havel, now deceased (2011).\n\nChapters develop in Europe and North America\nThe international success obtained by the French founding chapter rapidly branched out in Europe and North America with chapters opening up in Belgium (2005), Québec, Canada (July 2006), Germany (October 2006), Italy (December 2006), Spain (April 2007), Norway (2007).\n\nSince most European chapters were initiated by very active and motivated students, some have been short-lived when these have left the university after graduation to settle in life. Some of these chapters have become «dormant chapters» which can be revived anytime by new teams, with new ideas and projects.\n\nOn the other hand, well-grounded active chapter can decide to extend their range of activities by opening new branches in other cities and universities of their region or country.\n\nThe German chapter (SOG) – Studieren Ohne Grenzen – is the most extensive of the ESF movement with more than 1,000 members active in a dozen German cities and universities. Since its opening in 2006, it has developed very important scholarship program for students in the Democratic Republic of Congo registered in different programs at UNIKIND (University of Kindu located in Maniema State in the Eastern part of the country) where they also have plans to develop a computer room and build a library with the help of local organizations.\n\nSOG is also involved with the Institut Supérieur d’Études agronomiques in Mweso where it sponsors 64 students who study with scholarships to become qualified agronomists with the intent of helping to alleviate poverty and hunger.\n\nSOG has also offered Chechen students full scholarships to acquire a university diploma in Germany, including preparatory language courses. These students benefit from intensive mentoring and support throughout their stay in Germany. During their studies in Germany they prepare a project which aims to support the development of their home country’s society and culture that will be implemented after their graduation.\n\nA new project developing in Afghanistan with the collaboration of the Herat University will enable carefully selected young people to take up studies in all kinds of academic fields. The Afghan people have suffered the direct and indirect outcomes of 30 continuous years of war on their soil. After the overturn of the Taliban regime no sustainable future was established for the younger generation which makes the bulk of the Afghan people. True to its motto: \"Education is the most powerful weapon we have to change the world.\" (Nelson Mandela), SOG wants to extend a hand to talented Afghan students.\n\nThe Canadian chapter (ESF-Qc) – Études sans frontières, section Québec – the only chapter founded outside Europe by university employees in 2006 [with the help of Université du Québec à Montréal - UQAM] has focused on two crisis region, Rwanda and Haiti, after having tried for two years without success to sponsor two Chechen students from the capital Grozny.\n\nIt has helped so far a Rwandan student and mother complete a master's degree in clinical psychology (2009-2013). It is currently sponsoring a Haitian student who studies to acquire a master's degree in Computer science applied to Management, who has plans to help modernize the public Archives in Haiti upon his return to his home country. ESF-Qc has already made contact with Bibliothèque et Archives nationales du Québec (BAnQ) in order to select an internship and mentoring program concurrent to this student’ studies in Montréal.\nESF-Qc has also sponsored two Congolese students for two years in collaboration with the German project operating in UNIKIND (University of Kindu) in the Democratic Republic of Congo.\n\nThe Canadian chapter has projects in 2013-2014 to extend its activities to two other francophone universities in the province of Québec and to sponsor more students from crisis regions. It is running a major fundraising operation in the Montreal university community and civil society.\n\nThe French chapter who started the ESF movement in 2003 has been completing on-going projects these last years with very few members but very dedicated and loyal donors who have been supporting the organization since the beginning.\n\nAn especially talented Chechen student who arrived in France in 2007 has been able to complete an undergraduate program in Political science at the high profile «Sciences Po» – L'Institut d'Études Politiques de Paris – and then registered for a master's degree in European Affairs which she should complete in 2013. She is the last student of a program which helped more than 20 students to complete university degrees in France from Chechnya.\n\nThe French chapter is also pursuing the Kimironko project started in 2006 with the help of ESF-Italy, which has offered 12 scholarships to orphans of all ages living together on a hill near Kigali in order to take care of each other without the help of their parents killed in the 1994 genocide. Six graduated in 2012 and three others study in programs of Finance, Administration and International Relations in Rwanda. The Rwandan project is due to end in 2014 with lasting success for the many students who completed their high school, college or university studies.10\n\nIn 2013 ESF France is planning to finance a 3 to 6 months training program in French for its former pivot person in Chechnya. In addition it keeps contact with former beneficiaries and helps them with non-financial or financial matters related to their professional projects based on their specific needs. With no more than 3 members left from the initial team, the French chapter will mutate to «dormant» status in 2014 unless it is revived by a new team.\n\n"}
