{"id": "532840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=532840", "title": "ABET", "text": "ABET\n\nABET, incorporated as the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology, Inc., is a non-governmental organization that accredits post-secondary education programs in applied and natural science, computing, engineering and engineering technology.\n\nThe accreditation of these programs occurs mainly in the United States but also internationally. , 3,852 programs are accredited, distributed over 776 universities and colleges in 31 countries.\n\nABET is the recognized U.S. accreditor of college and university programs in applied and natural science, computing, engineering and engineering technology. ABET also provides leadership internationally through workshops, memoranda of understanding, and mutual recognition agreements, such as the Washington Accord. ABET has been recognized by the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA) since 1997. Also, ABET evaluates programs offered in a 100-percent online format.\n\nABET was established in 1932 as the Engineers' Council for Professional Development (ECPD) by seven engineering societies: \n\nECPD was founded to provide a \"joint program for upbuilding engineering as a profession.\" However, it almost immediately began developing as an accreditation agency, evaluating its first engineering program in 1936 and its first engineering technology program in 1946. By 1947, 580 programs at 133 institutions had been accredited.\n\nECPD changed its name to the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology, Inc. in 1980, and began doing business as ABET in 2005. In 1985, ABET helped establish the Computing Sciences Accreditation Board (CSAB), which is now one of ABET's largest member societies with over 300 programs, in response to a dramatic rise in interest of computer science education.\n\nABET is a federation of 35 professional and technical \"member societies\" representing the fields of applied science, computing, engineering and engineering technology.\n\nMember societies\n\nABET accredits post-secondary degree-granting programs offered by institutions that are regionally accredited in the U.S. and nationally accredited outside of the U.S. Certification, training, or doctoral programs are not accredited.\n\nABET accreditation is voluntary; the request for accreditation is initiated by the institution seeking accreditation. Accreditation is given to individual programs within an institution rather than to the institution as a whole. Accredited programs must request re-evaluation every six years to retain accreditation; if the accreditation criteria are not satisfied, additional evaluations may be required within the six-year interval. Programs without previous accreditation can apply for accreditation as long as they have produced at least one program graduate.\n\nThe first step in securing or retaining ABET accreditation is for an institution to request an evaluation of its program(s) by January 31 of the year in which accreditation is being sought. The eligibility of the institution must be established, which can be satisfied if the institution is accredited by a regional accreditation agency. Each program is then assigned to one of four accreditation commissions within ABET:\nThe program is assigned to a commission based on its title (the program name shown on the transcript). Each commission has different accreditation criteria.\n\nEach program then conducts an internal evaluation and completes a self-study report. The self-study documents how well the program is meeting the established accreditation criteria in multiple areas, such as their students, curriculum, faculty, administration, facilities, and institutional support. The self-study report must be provided to ABET by July 1.\n\nWhile the program conducts its self-study, the appropriate ABET commission (Applied and Natural Science, Computing, Engineering or Engineering Technology Commission) will choose a team chair to head the on-campus evaluation visit. A visit date (generally in the September – December time frame) is negotiated between the team chair and the institution. Once the date is set, the ABET commission will assign program evaluators (generally one per program being evaluated). The institution is provided the opportunity to reject the team chair or program evaluators if a conflict of interest is perceived. The team chair and evaluators are volunteers from academe, government, industry, and private practice.\n\nOnce the program evaluators are accepted by the institution, they are provided with the self-study report for their assigned program. This report forms the basis of their evaluation of the program, and prepares them for the campus visit.\n\nThe evaluation team (team chair and program evaluators) will normally arrive on campus on a Saturday or Sunday. During the on-campus visit, the evaluation team will review course materials from each program, as well as student projects and sample assignments. Evaluators will also interview students, faculty, and administrators, and tour the facilities to investigate any questions raised by the self-study. The visit will normally conclude the following Tuesday with an exit interview with the institution's chief executive officer, dean, and other appropriate institution personnel as appropriate. This interview is intended to summarize the results of the evaluation for each program.\n\nFollowing the campus visit, the institution has 7 days in which to correct perceived errors of fact communicated during the exit interview. Following this period, the team chair will begin preparation of a draft statement to the institution; this statement undergoes extensive editing and will typically be provided to the institution several months after the visit. On receipt of the draft statement, the institution has 30 days to respond to issues identified in the evaluation. After this response, the team chair prepares a final statement to the institution.\n\nThe final statement and recommended accreditation action is reviewed by the large annual meeting of all ABET commission members in July after the campus visit. Based on the findings, the commission members vote on the final accreditation action, and the school is notified of the decision in August.\n\nThe information the school receives identifies strengths, concerns, weaknesses, and deficiencies of the program, as well as recommendations for compliance with ABET criteria. Accreditation is granted for a maximum of six years, after which the institution must request another evaluation.\n\nABET specifies minimum curricula for various engineering programs. For instance, ABET requires that all engineering graduates of a baccalaureate program receive at least one year of study in the natural or physical sciences and mathematics, and requires some study within general education. ABET also requires that each student complete a capstone project or design class in their education. Because of ABET's involvement, engineering curricula are somewhat standardized at the bachelor's level, thus ensuring that graduates of any ABET-accredited program have some minimal skill set for entry into the workforce or for future education.\n\nFor most of its history, ABET's accreditation criteria specifically outlined the major elements that accredited engineering programs must have, including the program curricula, the faculty type, and the facilities. However, in the mid-1990s, the engineering community began to question the appropriateness of such rigid accreditation requirements.\n\nAfter intense discussion, in 1997, ABET adopted Engineering Criteria 2000 (EC2000). The EC2000 criteria shifted the focus away from the inputs (what material is taught) and to the outputs (what students learned). EC2000 stresses continuous improvement, and accounts for specific missions and goals of the individual institutions and programs. The intention of this approach was to enable innovation in engineering programs rather than forcing all programs to conform to a standard, as well as to encourage new assessment processes and program improvements.\n\nABET- Accreditation is certified by the International Organization for Standardization. ISO 9000 family of quality management systems standards is designed to help organizations ensure that they meet the needs of customers and other stakeholders while meeting statutory and regulatory requirements related to a product or service.\n\nABET's accreditation process is recognized by these international entities.\nTo become a licensed professional engineer, one common prerequisite is graduation from an EAC of ABET-accredited program. Requirements for professional engineer testing for EAC accredited programs vary from state to state.\n\nThe Engineering Credential Evaluation International (ECEI) was established in 1997 as the credential evaluation service of ABET. ECEI specialized in the evaluation of degrees in engineering, engineering technology, computer science and surveying from outside the U.S. As of October 30, 2006, ECEI stopped accepting applications for credentials evaluation; a business decision made by the ABET board of directors.\n\n"}
{"id": "1679129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1679129", "title": "ACTFL Proficiency Guidelines", "text": "ACTFL Proficiency Guidelines\n\nThe ACTFL Proficiency Guidelines were created by the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages in order to provide a means of assessing the proficiency of a foreign language speaker.\n\nThe guidelines are broken up into different proficiency levels: novice, intermediate, advanced, superior, and distinguished. Additionally, each of these (except superior and distinguished) is further subdivided into low, mid and high. These proficiency levels are defined separately for ability to listen, speak, read and write. Thus, in those American programs that emphasize written language over spoken, students may reach the advanced level in reading and writing while remaining at a lower level in listening and speaking.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7363564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7363564", "title": "Action Philosophers!", "text": "Action Philosophers!\n\nAction Philosophers! was a self-published comic book series by artist Ryan Dunlavey and writer Fred Van Lente, which was awarded a Xeric Grant in 2004, leading to Action Philosophers! # 1's publication in April 2005.\n\nThe series focused on a concise biography of some of the most notable philosophers and their ideas. To quote the book's homepage:\nACTION PHILOSOPHERS! is a comic book series detailing the lives and thoughts of history's A-list brain trust in a hip and humorous way that proves that philosophy is not just the province of boring tweed-enveloped college professors.\nThe series concluded with issue # 9, published in September 2007. The series was also collected into various self-published paperback collections. Dark Horse Comics published a deluxe hardcover collection of the series with new material in October, 2014.\n\nThe American Library Association included Action Philosophers vol. 1 in its 2007 Great Graphic Novels for Teens booklist. The series was nominated for a 2010 Ignatz Outstanding Debut Award and received a positive review from Philosophy Now.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49668674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49668674", "title": "Albanian School of Magistrates", "text": "Albanian School of Magistrates\n\nThe \"Albanian School of Magistrates\", officially known as the School of Magistrates of the Republic of Albania (, ASM) is an Albanian post-graduate school, where Albanian judges and public prosecutors are trained. The institution was established in 1997 by virtue of Law no. 8136, date 31.7.1996 “On the School of Magistrates of the Republic of Albania”, as amended by Law no. 9414, date 20.05.2005 and Law no. 97/2014. It is located in Tirana, with its campus located inside the Tirana Grand Park, sharing premises with the Faculty of Geology and Mining of the Polytechnic University of Tirana.\n\nThe aim of the training provided by the ASM is to form a corps of judges and public prosecutors who are suitable for all posts on the bench as well as in the public prosecution service in first instance courts. A prospective Judge or Public prosecutor must complete a Bachelor in Law (which typically requires three years of study) and a Master in Law (which requires two years of study) before entering the School of Magistrates. Admission is made through a two-part entrance examination.\n\nThe Albanian School of Magistrates offers:\n\n· Initial professional theoretical and practical education of candidates for magistrate (who select either the Judicial or the Prosecutorial stream);\n\n· Professional continuous formation of judges and prosecutors in function of general character, combined with the specialized formation for professionals who are in duty in such courts as the administrative court, the serious crimes court, as well as of the sections of courts which are focused into the judgment of specific matters, such as commercial sections, bankruptcy sections, task force of the prosecution, etc.;\n\n· the realization of the activities of the professional formation of the employees of the judicial administrate, as well as of other professions related with the justice system, in accordance with the law or on the request of interested institutions, in dependence of free capacities, as well as of the funds it has in disposal from responsible institutions or donors;\n\n· Editions and publications;\n\n· Scientific research and preparation of analysis, memo and expertise from Legal and Scientific Clinics of the School of Magistrates, (candidates for magistrate under the observation of their professors), in the support of the judicial institutions, such as the High Court, the Constitutional Court and the General Prosecutor’s Institution, as well as in the support of the drafting process for the Parliament and the Ministry of Justice.\n\nThe Initial Training Formation of candidates for magistrates is made up of a period of three years, which comprises:\n\na) A theoretical year with different law subjects;\n\nb) A practical year under the guide of a school professor and under the guide of a judge or prosecutor with high qualifications.\n\nc) A professional internship year dealing with less complicated cases under the guidance of a prosecutor or a judge;\n\nThe first year theoretical program is common for all candidates whereas the second practical year and the third year of professional internship are carried out according to the careers of each of the candidates, judges or prosecutors.\nSchool Director announces the list of courts and prosecutors’ offices, where the internship will be conducted, the responsible magistrates and names of candidates for each court or prosecutor’s office.\n\nAt the end of the first and second year, an evaluation is made from the Pedagogical Council for each of the candidates, with 5 (five) scales: Excellent, Very Good, Good, Sufficient, Insuficcient. Evaluation rules and procedures are defined in the Internal Regulations of the School of Magistrates.\n\nBased on this evaluation, the President of the Republic upon the proposal of the High Council of Justice and General Prosecutor, appoints temporarily candidates for magistrates to carry out their professional internship, respectively as judges and prosecutors.\n\nIn the context of the fulfillment of its mission the School of Magistrates offers the continuous education for judges and prosecutors of courts and prosecutions of the first instances and appeal courts.\nThe period of the continuous education is not more than 20 days per year and not more than 60 days in five years.\nThe program of continuous education is composed from the Director of the School in collaboration with the internal pedagogical staff after is taken, preliminarily, the opinion of the Head of the High Court, of the General Prosecutor, of the Minister of Justice, of the High Council of Justice and of the Pedagogical Council of the School. The program of the continuous education is approved from the Directive Council of the School.\nParticipation in these trainings is compulsory.\n\n"}
{"id": "45434504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45434504", "title": "American University of the Middle East", "text": "American University of the Middle East\n\nAmerican University of the Middle East (AUM) is a private university in Kuwait, founded in 2008. AUM is based in Egaila (Eqaila) in Kuwait, with a campus area of 161,190 square meters and 9000+ students in the year 2017. The American University of the Middle East (AUM) is affiliated with Purdue University in Indiana, US, and is accredited by the Private Universities Council (PUC) of the Government of Kuwait.\n\nAUM offers undergraduate programs in Business and Engineering as well as a graduate program in Business Administration (MBA).\n\nAUM has also acquired licenses for Health Sciences majors.\n\nAUM is part of HumanSoft Holding, one of the listed companies on the Kuwait Stock Exchange Market.\n\nThe majors offered in the College of Engineering and Technology include Industrial, Computer, Electrical, Mechanical and Chemical Engineering, in addition to Information System Technology and Telecommunications and Networking Technology. \n\nThe College of Business Administration (CBA) offers bachelor's degrees in accounting, finance, Management Information System (MIS), Marketing and Human Resource Management, in addition to an MBA program.\n\nAUM Campus extends over an area of 161,190 square meters and comprises green open spaces and modernly designed buildings that include: AUM College of Business Administration (CBA), AUM College of Engineering and Technology, AUM Library that includes a cinema auditorium, AUM Sports Center, AUM Research and Innovation Center that includes AUM Robotics Center(6) and AUM Nanotechnology Center, AUM Cultural Center that includes AUM Opera House and AUM Conference Center and a multi-storage Parking Complex. \n\nAmongst the amenities are several high tech lab facilities, a professional soccer field (FIFA certified), basketball fields (both outdoor and indoor), squash rooms, gymnasium, running track and cycling track. This is in addition to an outdoor amphitheater and numerous cafeterias. \n\nThe main clubs at the university are Art Club, Music Club, Photography Club, and Robotics Club.\n\nThe buildings also include a nanotechnology research center and several high tech lab facilities.\n\nThe campus also hosts “Tawteen Career Development and Recruitment Center” which is a branch of “Tawteen Recruitment & HR Solutions Company”, specialized in offering personal development skills, employment opportunities and career support mainly for Kuwaiti and GCC citizens.\n\nThere are over 700 faculty members & staff at AUM coming from around 62 nationalities. \n\nReferences: AUM Website:  Private Universities Council Kuwait:   Institution license’s Decree:  HumanSoft Holdings website:  \n"}
{"id": "14227998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14227998", "title": "Anatol Pikas", "text": "Anatol Pikas\n\nAnatol Pikas, Ph.D. (born 29 November 1928), creator of the Shared Concern method, SCm, is a retired associate professor in Educational Psychology from Uppsala University, Sweden.\n\nPikas was born in Viljandi, Estonia, and raised in Norrköping in Sweden. He has been a visiting professor in Peace Education in Heidelberg, at the University of Alberta, Edmonton, and at Gustavus Adolphus College in Minnesota, USA.\n\nIn the 1960s Pikas’ fields of teaching and research included cognitive psychology and in the 1970s Peace Education. Since the 1980s, Pikas has been developing his Shared Concern method, SCm, originally aimed at dealing with cases of bullying and hazeing when they occur in high school. More recently, SCm has been used as a basis for Peer Mediation and treating youth violence and gang activity in cases where therapeutic mediation can be applied. SCm is presented in a class discussion: not to seek guilt but a shared solution. The students are asked to write the names of \"those who need help\". Private discussions start with those mentioned which reveal the names of the suspected bullies are revealed. First in private and later in group discussion a shared resolution with their probable victim is prepared. If this is considered to be acceptable by the therapeutic mediator, the probable victim is invited and a shared solution obtained. If this is in accordance with the norms of the school, the case is considered to be solved but a surveillance continued until satisfactory co-operation is secured.\n\nThe following is a partial list of published works by Dr. Pikas:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17055522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17055522", "title": "Anders Selinder", "text": "Anders Selinder\n\nAnders Selinder (4 November 1806, Stockholm – 6 November 1874, Stockholm), was a Swedish ballet dancer, choreographer and director. He was Ballet master of the Royal Swedish Ballet in 1833–1856.\n\nAnders Selinder was the son of the jeweler A. Selinder in Stockholm. \n\nSelinder premier dancer at the Royal ballet in the Royal Swedish Opera in Stockholm in 1829-46. In 1833, he was appointed ballet master at the age of twenty seven. He succeeded Per Erik Wallqvist, and worked closely to Sophie Daguin, who had previously shared the position of ballet master with Wallqvist and was principal of the Opera's ballet school. Together, Selinder and Daguin are considered to have upheld a high standard of the ballet.\n\nAnders Selinder has been referred to as one of the most noted ballet masters of the royal ballet. \n\nDuring this time, there was a new interest for the old Folk dance, which were at that time disappearing. Selinder preserved the folk dance by making them into ballets. He wrote several ballet compositions, and made the choreography to the national opera \"Värmlänningarne\" in 1846. He composed about 40 ballets and 40 opera ballets. Many of his ballets were used by the Folk dance movement where they are still performed, such as \"Daldans\", \"Jössehäradspolska\" and \"Vingåkersdans\".\n\nIn 1856, both Selinder and Sophie Daguin lost their positions at the royal ballet. This has been pointed out as the beginning of a certain decay which affected the Royal Swedish Ballet during the second half of the 19th-century, when ballets where given much less space and often only allowed to be a complement of the opera plays. \n\nAfter having lost his position as ballet master, Anders Selinder formed a ballet company and toured Sweden: this was the first travelling ballet company in Sweden. The company also performed folk dance and gave lessons in that art. \n\nBetween 1858 and 1866, Selinder managed a children's theatre. In 1870–1871, he was joint director in the theatre \"Ladugårdslandsteatern\".\n\nAmong his famous students were Anna de Wahl, Sophie Cysch, Mathilda Hodell, Hilma Bruno, Hilda Bingvall, Zelma Eklund, Gardt and C. GL Callmén, Mina Pettersson, Sophie Dahl, Gunhild Rosén, Robert Sjöblom and Gustaf Ullberg.\n\n"}
{"id": "37339082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37339082", "title": "Asaf Zeynally Music College", "text": "Asaf Zeynally Music College\n\nBaku Musical College – is a state college of professional secondary education in Baku and one of the leading secondary musical schools of Azerbaijan.\n\nBaku Musical College is a four-year special secondary school. About 1400 students study and 400 pedagogues teach there. More than 8000 musical personnel studied in this college during its existence period. Nazim Kazimov, Honored Art Worker of Azerbaijan is a chairman of the college.\n\nIn 1885, Antonina Yermolayeva, alumni of Moscow Conservatory opened a private music school with a support of her sisters Yelizaveta and Yevgeniya. Antonina Yermolayeva became director of the school. Musical classes under Baku department of Musical Union of Russia were opened on the basis of this school, in 1901. A.Yermolayeva was in charge of them, too. Education in these classes were professional. In 1916, musical courses were transformed into a musical school. Pedagogical staff of the school was mainly consisted of alumnus of Russian conservatoires. Education was implemented by that material which was accepted in Saint Petersburg and Moscow, in the beginning of the 19th century. In, 1922, Uzeyir Hajibeyov, eminent Azerbaijani composer led the school. New faculties, where foundation of theory and play on eastern instruments was also taught alongside with the European instruments, were opened in time of Uzeyir Hajibeyov’s direction (1922-1926 and 1939-1941). In 1953, the school was named after Asaf Zeynally, Azerbaijani composer and pedagogue.\n\n"}
{"id": "34833414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34833414", "title": "Attila Menyhárd", "text": "Attila Menyhárd\n\nAttila Menyhárd Ph.D. is a Hungarian lawyer, a professor of civil law and the head of the Department at Eötvös Loránd University (hereafter ELTE), Faculty of Law, Civil Law Department in Budapest, Hungary.\n\nMenyhárd earned his law degree from Eötvös Loránd University in 1993. During his studies he became a member of Eötvös Loránd University István Bibó College of Law and Political Sciencies. He admitted to the Budapest bar association in 1997. He promoted with PhD degree in 2003 in ELTE Law Faculty (Budapest) with the thesis on immoral contracts. He habilitated in 2007 with his book on property law and his thesis on human rights in private law. \nHe is teaching the whole range of private law and has special courses in contract law, tort law, property law, commercial law, law and economics, law and literature, human rights in private law, European business law and European company law. Upon the invitation of the Ministry of Justice he contributed the project for a new Hungarian Civil Code, being liable for the provisions on property law and rent law. Professor Menyhárd is participant in several international research projects and programs. He is the Hungarian fellow of European Centre of Tort and Insurance Law (Wien). He participates in the Trento Common Core Project in Product Liability and in Property Law. Professor Menyhárd is a listed member of the Arbitration Court attached to the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Budapest. Within the China-EU School of Law he is in charge of representing ELTE (Budapest). In March 2012 Menyhárd was appointed as university full professor by the President of Hungary.\n\nHis special research fields are: contract law, tort law, property law, commercial law, corporate law, human rights and private law, and economic analysis of law.\n\nHe is the author of four books and more than eighty other publications in tort law, contract law, property law, company law, law and economics and human rights in private law in Hungarian, English and German language in Hungary as well as in abroad. \n\nSome of his works which were written in English:\n\n"}
{"id": "38781366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38781366", "title": "Board of Secondary Education, Karachi", "text": "Board of Secondary Education, Karachi\n\nThe Board of Secondary Education, Karachi (BSEK) is a government board in Karachi for secondary education examination. It was established in 1974 by the Government of Sindh through the Sindh Boards of Intermediate and Secondary Education amendment act No. 20 of 1973 along with Board of Intermediate Education, Karachi. BSEK controls and organizes the secondary education examinations in Karachi.\n\nBoard of Intermediate Education, Karachi\n\nBSEK official website\n"}
{"id": "33556373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33556373", "title": "Breadwinner model", "text": "Breadwinner model\n\nThe breadwinner model is a paradigm of family centered on a breadwinner, \"the member of a family who earns the money to support the others\". Traditionally, the earner works outside the home to provide the family with income and benefits such as health insurance, while the non-earner stays at home and takes care of children and the elderly.\n\nSince the 1950s, social scientists and feminist theorists have increasingly criticized the gendered division of work and care and the expectation that the breadwinner role should be fulfilled by men. Norwegian government policy has increasingly targeted men as fathers, as a tool of changing gender relations. Recent years have seen a shift in gender norms for the breadwinner role in the U.S. A 2013 Pew Research study found that women were the sole or primary breadwinners in 40% of heterosexual relationships with children.\n\nIn Britain, the breadwinner model developed among the emerging middle-class towards the end of the industrial revolution in the mid-nineteenth-century. Prior to this, in low-income families, a subsistence wage was paid based upon the individual worker's output, with all members of the family expected to contribute to the household upkeep.\n\nThere was another side to the transformation of wage relations in mid-19th-century Britain involving two closely related changes: first, a shift in the prevailing wage form, from a joint to an individual payment; and second, a shift in the predominant subsistence norm of a living wage, from a family group's income to the ideal of an adult male-breadwinner wage. This is the notion that the wage earned by a husband ought to be sufficient to support his family without his wife and young children having to work for pay.\n\nThe increase in wages among skilled labourers and lower-middle-class workers allowed for a far larger number of families being able to support the entire family unit on one wage, and the breadwinner model became an attainable goal for a far wider proportion of society. Within this model, \"The division of labour in parenting tasks can also be classified as 'caring about' (breadwinning) and 'caring for' (nurturing) children\".\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the emergence of the breadwinner norm coincided with and helped to facilitate the removal of children from the workforce. In 1821, approximately 49% of the nation's workforce was under the age of 20. Throughout the century, multiple items of legislation were written in to law limiting the age at which a child could enter work and ensuring mandatory standards of education.\n\nHistorically, families that rely on the earning power of one parent have had a lower divorce rate than families where both parents are in gainful employment.\n\nOne associated disadvantage is that 'male breadwinner regimes make women dependent within marriage cohabitation especially when they have young children'. In societies where the breadwinner model is present, it is common for the non-earner (predominantly women) to have broken career paths, providing unpaid labour to the family or working part-time. This contributes to the fact that, on average, women obtain lower levels of lifetime earnings than men. This income disparity can often lead to an increase in financial insecurity or poverty – predominantly affecting women – if the relationship collapses. Another risk that has been identified with this has been a higher exposure to domestic violence, which has been associated with the non-earner's lack of independent resources.\n\nIn 2013 the UK female employment rate reached 67.2 per cent, the highest since the Office for National Statistics' records began.\nAs women's growing presence in the professional world has risen, as well as support for gender equality, male-female relations in the home have changed, especially the breadwinner paradigm. The breadwinner model was most prevalent during the 20-year period directly after World War II. During this time the economy relied heavily on men to financially support the family and to provide the main source of income, typically relying on women to stay at home and look after the children and undertaking domestic work. \"Women's support for gender specialisation in marriage began to decline rapidly from the late 1970s through to the mid 1980s, this was followed by an interval of stability until the mid 1990s\". \"As increasing proportions of women entered the paid labour market during the latter decades of the 20th century, the family model of a male breadwinner and female homemaker came under significant challenge both as a practice and an ideology\".\n\nThe Nordic countries in particular have begun to adopt the dual-breadwinner model, with high employment rates among men and women, and a very small difference between men's and women's hours of work. With the exception of Denmark, research by the World Economic Forum has shown that all Nordic countries have closed over 80 percent of the gender gap.\n\nThe female breadwinner model, otherwise known as \"Breadwinner Moms\", takes place when the female provides the main source of income for the family. Recent data from the US Census stated that \"40% of all households with children under the age of 18 include mothers who are either the sole or primary source of income for the family\". 37% of these \"Breadwinner Moms\" are married mothers who have a higher income than their husbands, and 63% are single mothers.\n\nAlthough there have been problems identified with the breadwinner model, there have also been issues noted in its decline. The decline of the breadwinner model has been accompanied by an erosion of various dimensions – sexual division of labour, the economic support of family members, and the \"distribution of time and regulation of marriage and parenthood\". With two parents in the workforce, there is a risk that a job could undermine family life, consequently leading to relationship breakdown or adversely affecting original family formation.\n\nA recent study has found that \"women's gains on the economic front may be contributing to a decline in the formation and stability of marriages\". Although one reason for this may be that women with greater earning and economic security have more freedom to leave bad marriages, another possibility could be that men are more hesitant to this change in social norms.\n\n"}
{"id": "3770091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3770091", "title": "Business Professionals of America", "text": "Business Professionals of America\n\nBusiness Professionals of America (BPA) is a career and technical student organization that is headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. BPA aims to develop leadership, academic, and technological skills in the workplace among students and leaders within the community. BPA's colors are navy blue, tan, and red.\n\nEvery Business Professionals of America chapter has presiding officers for the national organization, state associations, and local chapters. They all share and carry out similar tasks at all levels.\n\nBPA rewards members in three categories:\n\nThere are several levels of competition held at conferences and competition advancement is sought at each level in events referred to in the awards section.\n\n\nMany regions, districts, or states opt to also arrange Fall Leadership Conferences in which there is no competition. These conferences are usually less formal than at RLC/DLC, SLC, and NLC instead often focusing on workshops over areas such as social media etiquette, proper professional dress, public speaking, etc.\n\nEvery year BPA hosts a National Leadership Conference (NLC) with nearly 6,000 students from across the nation. At NLC, students compete in over 71 competitive events with students from across the United States. The 2017 National Leadership Conference took place in Orlando, Florida from May 10 to May 14.\nThe 2018 National Leadership Conference will take place in Dallas, Texas on May 9 through May 13.\nBusiness Professionals of America was formed in 1966 as the Office Education Association (OEA). Note that information retrieved below was accessed at https://web.archive.org/web/20100920171816/http://www.bpa.org/information/history.\n\n"}
{"id": "524423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=524423", "title": "CARNet", "text": "CARNet\n\nCARNET (Croatian Academic and Research Network, ) is the national research and education network of Croatia. It is funded from the government budget and it operates from offices in Zagreb and five other cities.\n\nCARNet was established in 1991 as a project of the Ministry of Science and Technology of the Republic of Croatia. In March 1995 the Government of the Republic of Croatia passed the Decree on founding of the CARNet institution with the purpose of facilitating progress of individuals, as well as of the society as a whole, through the use of new information technologies.\n\nCARNet's activities can be divided in three basic areas: Internet service provision, encouragement of information society development and education for the new era.\n\nA body responsible for coordinating the establishment of the Croatian educational computer network has been established on 3 October 1991. That was the beginning of the work of the Croatian Academic and Research Network - CARNet, the first Internet Service Provider (ISP) in Croatia. In the several years that followed CARNet was the only Internet service provider in Croatia, providing the service free of charge, not only to the academic community, but to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia as well.\n\nIn November 1992 the first international communication connection was established, which connected CARNet Internet exchange point in Zagreb to Austria. By that act Croatia became a part of the world computer network – the Internet.\n\nDuring 1992, the first equipment was procured and the backbone of the CARNet network was built. Institutions in Croatia were connected at the speed of 19 - 200 kbit/s, while the whole network was connected to the Internet through Austria at the speed of 64 kbit/s.\nThe first institutions to be connected to the Internet were the University Computing Centre - Srce, the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing in Zagreb, the Ruđer Bošković Institute, the Faculty of Science, the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering and Naval Architecture in Split, the Faculty of Engineering in Rijeka, the Faculty of Economics in Osijek and the Ministry of Science and Technology.\n\nDuring the first months of 1993, CARNet was assigned the administration over the top-level .hr domain by the international organisation called the Internet Assigned Number Authority (IANA).\nIn October 1994, CARNet started offering the first Internet courses to its users and, in time, user education became one of CARNet’s most important activities.\n\nIn 1996, the backbone of CARNet network was upgraded by introducing the ATM technology which enables real-time transfer of image and sound at the basic speed of 155 Mbit/s.\n\nIn January 1997, the first distance lecture in Croatia was organized through the CARNet ATM core between the Rectorate of the Osijek University and the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing in Zagreb.\nGÉANT, the pan-European academic and research network, was put into service on 1 December 2001, and CARNet, among others, connected to it.\n\nIn cooperation with the University Computing Centre - Srce, in 2003 CARNet released the Giga CARNet project in order to use gigabit technologies to develop a high quality infrastructure for CARNet member institutions, faculties and research institutes. In the framework of the Giga CARNet project, in February 2004 CARNet was enabled, through the connection to the GÉANT network, to have a twice-faster connection to similar academic and research networks in Europe and all over the world (at the speed of 1.2 Gbit/s instead of the former 622 Mbit/s).\n\nAs a necessary requirement for further cooperation between CARNet and the world's academic and research communities, in June 2007 the speed of CARNet's connection towards the GÉANT network was increased to 10 Gbit/s.\n\nChronology \n\nCARNet operates through services and projects integrated in eight departments:\n\nThe CEO coordinates the activities at the level of the entire institution and outside it, acts on behalf of the institution and represents CARNet in public. CARNet Executive Committee consists of the CEO, the vice CEO and deputy CEOs (heads of the said departments). The Committee coordinates short- and long-term planning, makes decisions on business organisation and is responsible for the relations with the government bodies, users, partners and the public.\n\nCARNet is run by the Managing Council which represents the interests of CARNet founders, the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Managing Council members are appointed by the Minister of Science, Education and Sports.\n\nThe Users Board is CARNet's advisory body consisting of all CARNet coordinators at CARNet member institutions as the representatives of the academic community, heads of county-level computer science councils as the representatives of school system users, and the CARNet CEO.\n\nThe total amount of budget funds allocated to CARNet was over 88.5 million HRK (ca. 12 million EUR).\n\nBasic activities of the Croatian Academic and Research Network - CARNet are network development, building and maintenance. CARNet network is a private network of the Croatian academic, scientific and research community and the primary and secondary school system institutions.\n\nNetwork infrastructure is owned by the CARNet institution, but cables are rented from a number of telecommunication providers. CARNet network is an example of a WAN network which enables CARNet members throughout Croatia to be connected into a compact information and communication system.\n\nCARNet network is a data network whose principal purpose is to transfer data through the TCP/IP protocol. The currently supported version of the TCP/IP protocol in the CARNet network as its integral part is version 4 (IPv4). The key characteristic of every private network is its connection to the global network - the Internet. The CARNet network established this connection through the GÉANT pan-European research network, with the current connection speed of 10 Gbit/s. The connection to other Internet service providers in Croatia has been implemented through the Croatian Internet Exchange Point – CIX.\n\nIn Croatia, the CARNet network connects the major Croatian towns and cities on the mainland and a number of settlements on the islands. The larger university centres (Dubrovnik, Osijek, Pula, Rijeka, Split, Zadar, Zagreb) have high speed connections (ranging from 155 Mbit/s to 1 Gbit/s), while smaller centres are connected at the speeds ranging from 2 Mbit/s to 100 Mbit/s. Zagreb has a particularly advanced infrastructure, connecting larger faculties and scientific institutions at the speeds of up to 10 Gbit/s. Thanks to the project \"e-Split,\", which CARNet has accomplished in cooperation with the City of Split, Split is the first city in which CARNet has its own optical network. Through that optical network 158 CARNet member institutions, in the city area, are connected to CARNet network.\n\nMore than 900 institutions from the primary and secondary school systems are also connected to the CARNet network via ADSL connections, and schools on Croatian islands have been connected to CARNet network in the framework of the e-Islands project.\n\nAs part of its vision of inclusion of the Republic of Croatia in modern information society, CARNet participates in a series of international activities.\n\nParallel with the increase of physical link speed on GEANT network, there is an increased development of CARNet's parallel (human) link towards European and international academic Internet community. CARNet activities in the sphere of international cooperation are forming a stable communication channel towards foreign countries, providing CARNet with an opportunity to present Croatia and its academic research community.\n\nInternational cooperation includes following the activities of other academic networks in Europe and participating in the work of international organisations that gather national, educational, academic and research networks. CARNet also promotes the inclusion of the Croatian academic community into international projects in the field of information technologies research and application and coordinates the participation of CARNet employees in international projects.\n\nCARNet is active member of several international organisations:\n\n\nCARNet users are member institutions and individual users.\n\nCARNet member institutions are institutions belonging to the science and higher education system, as well as those belonging to the primary and secondary school systems. By obtaining the member status, institutions are connected to the CARNet network and entitled to use the CARNet services. CARNet has 241 member institutions from the academic community connected to the CARNet network at 418 locations. There are 1385 members from the primary and secondary school systems, connected at 1283 locations.\n\nIndividual users are higher education students and professors, scientists and persons employed in the academic and higher education community, primary and secondary school students, teachers and employees at primary and secondary schools and student homes.\n\nAt their respective central institution individual users obtain electronic identities in the AAI@EduHr system. Electronic identity is a virtual identity on the CARNet network which serves for user authentication and authorisation for different CARNet services and is necessary for the use of CARNet services.\n\n"}
{"id": "12400902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12400902", "title": "Canadian Technology Accreditation Board", "text": "Canadian Technology Accreditation Board\n\nThe Canadian Technology Accreditation Board (CTAB) is a standing committee of the Canadian Council of Technicians and Technologists that was established in 1982 to manage the accreditation of post-secondary applied science and engineering technology programs in Canada.\n\nCTAB manages the national accreditation program for applied science and engineering technology programs. CTAB is a member of the Association of Accrediting Agencies of Canada (AAAC). Currently, there are 252 active programs in the CTAB Directory.\n\nGraduates of CTAB accredited programs have international mobility rights under the Sydney Accord & Dublin Accords.\n\n"}
{"id": "17226752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17226752", "title": "Cephalonian method", "text": "Cephalonian method\n\nThe cephalonian method is a method of active learning for library orientation first made popular in the United Kingdom at Cardiff University. Introduced to a wider audience in 2004 by Linda Davies and Nigel Morgan, the method consists of giving the students at a library orientation class cards with prepared questions they are to ask during the session for the instructor to answer. Questions are grouped into categories and colour coded to provide some structure; the order of the questions in any section is based on the order the students choose to stand up which makes the sessions more random and reduces the repetitive nature of library induction / orientation. However, it may be more appropriate for first year students than more senior students.\n\nThe name is taken from a method used for orientation of tourists at a popular resort in Cephalonia, Greece.\n\n"}
{"id": "37635406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37635406", "title": "Clarissa Minnie Thompson Allen", "text": "Clarissa Minnie Thompson Allen\n\nClarissa Minnie Thompson Allen (October 1, 1859 – November 23, 1941) was an American educator and author. She wrote fictional stories about wealthy African-American families in the American South.\n\nClarissa Minnie Thompson Allen was born in Columbia, South Carolina, one of nine children of Eliza Henrietta Montgomery, a socialite, and Samuel Benjamin Thompson, a delegate in the South Carolina Constitutional Convention. She attended Howard Junior High School and a normal school in South Carolina. She worked at three different schools, including Allen University, where she taught subjects like algebra, Latin, physical geology, and history. She moved to Jefferson, Texas, around 1886, where she taught at a public school. She also lived in Ft. Worth, Texas, and worked in the public school system.\n\nAllen wrote fiction based around true stories about wealthy African-American families in the Southern United States. Her most notable work was \"Treading the Winepress\", also called \"A Mountain of Misfortune.\" The book consisted of 41 stories about two families. The stories took place in \"Capitolia,\" which was based on Columbia, South Carolina. The book includes love triangles, murder, womanhood, charity, and madness. It was a serialized publication. She also wrote novelettes for Texas-based publications. Her poetry was also published in African American newspapers. Some reviewers believed that her work was anti-religious, specifically towards the African Methodist Episcopal Church.\n\n"}
{"id": "41585692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41585692", "title": "Code.org", "text": "Code.org\n\nCode.org is a non-profit organization and eponymous website led by Hadi Partovi that aims to encourage people, particularly school students in the United States, to learn computer science. The website includes free coding lessons and the initiative also targets schools in an attempt to encourage them to include more computer science classes in the curriculum. On December 9, 2013, they launched the Hour of Code nationwide to promote computer science during Computer Science Education Week through December 15, 2013.\n\nCode.org was launched in January 2013 by Iranian-American brothers Hadi Partovi and Ali Partovi, as a non-profit focused on making computer programming more accessible. The initial focus was on creating a database of all computer science classrooms in the United States. At the time, Hadi Partovi stated that about ninety percent of US schools do not teach programming, despite it now being a \"foundational field\". The idea for the organization came from Hadi, who states that he thought of it on the day of Steve Jobs' death in 2011 while mulling over his own potential legacy. After this, Hadi worked full-time to bring the organization to fruition.\n\nIn late February 2013, a month after launch, they released a video featuring Mark Zuckerberg, Bill Gates, Jack Dorsey, and other programmers and entrepreneurs on the importance of learning to code. Two weeks after the launch, \"TechCrunch\" reported that the video had gone viral and received a lot of positive attention. Partovi raised about $10 million for Code.org from various tech companies and tech company founders. In 2014, Code.org posted a one-hour tutorial to build and customize a \"Flappy Bird\" video game using the site's block visual programming language. Code.org has also created coding programs revolving around characters from the Disney film \"Frozen\", in addition to \"Angry Birds\", and \"Plants vs. Zombies\". In December 2014, Code.org held a successful Indiegogo crowdfunding campaign that raised over $5 million to help educate school children. Overall, about 100 million students have been reached by Code.org efforts. On November 16, 2015, Microsoft announced a partnership with Code.org to launch \"Minecraft\" as a tutorial to teach kids how to code.\n\nIn February 2016, Code.org won the award for \"Biggest Social Impact\" at the Annual Crunchies Awards. By September 2016, Code.org founder Hadi Partovi was recognized as a Top 30 Education Leader by the Center for Digital Education. In December 2016, Code.org was recognized by the NASDAQ market by opening the stock market.\n\nDuring Computer Science Education Week from December 9 to December 15, 2013, Code.org launched the \"Hour of Code Challenge\" on its website to teach computer science to school students, enticing them to complete short programming tutorials. The Hour of Code involved getting people to write short snippets of code to achieve pre-specified goals using Blockly, a visual programming language of a similar flavor as Logo. The initiative had been announced about two months in advance and at the time of launch, the initiative was supported by former United States President Barack Obama as well as executives from technology companies such as Microsoft and Apple Inc. About 20 million people participated and over 600 million lines of code had been written. The Hour of Code also offered participation gifts to some of the schools involved, such as a set of fifty laptops or a conference call with one a tech \"luminary\" like Gates or Dorsey. The crowdfunding effort for Hour of Code received the highest amount of funding ever raised on Indiegogo. By October 2014, about forty million students had taken the Hour of Code class, and a second Hour of Code was held in December 2014. That year, locations for Hour of Code lessons included Apple retail stores.\n\nIn December 2016, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau helped launch the international Hour of Code campaign for 2016.\nAnd in December 2017, Code.org announced the Hour of Code had reached over 500 million hours served.\n\nThe first step in the organization's efforts as regards the curriculum of schools was to work with US school districts to add computer programming as a class. Most US schools did not have a course code for computer sciences, in order for schools to be able to offer coding as a class. After this, the next step was to create free online teaching and learning materials for schools to use if instituting computer science classes. By 2014, Code.org had launched computer courses in thirty US school districts to reach about 5% of all the students in US public schools (about two million students), and by 2015, Code.org had trained about 15,000 teachers to teach computer sciences, able to reach about 600,000 new students previously unable to learn computer coding, with large percentages of those being either female or minorities. To date, Code.org has prepared over 72,000 educators to teach computer science.\n\nThat year Code.org was partnered with about seventy of the largest US school districts (including each of the seven largest), representing several million students. The company also partnered with other computer class businesses and private entities to provide additional computer learning materials and opportunities. As of 2015, six million students had been enrolled in Code.org curriculum classes. That year, Code.org partnered with College Board, in order to develop a slate of advanced placement computer classes. The main platform used in Code.org instruction is Code Studio which according to TechCrunch, \"teaches the underlying concepts in programming through the manipulation of blocks of logic that when stacked together in a particular order, move a character around a scene or draw a shape.\"\n\nIn 2018, Code.org celebrated record participation by girls and underrepresented minorities in AP computer science classrooms, driven in large part by students in the Code.org CS Principles classrooms.\n\nOne of the main lobbying efforts of Code.org in state legislatures is to ensure that computer classes are not registered as foreign language classes, but as science classes, in order to ensure that more than coding is taught in computer courses. Code.org also focuses specifically on female and minority students, as the organization believes these are the students most at risk of not receiving computer science education before high school or college.\n\nAccording to its website, Code.org has the following goals:\n\nWriting for \"San Jose Mercury News\", Mike Cassidy praised Code.org and the Hour of Code, writing: \"A publicity stunt is what we need.\" John Dvorak was critical of the Hour of Code in an article for \"PC Magazine\". Dvorak wrote: \"I see it as a ploy to sell more computers in schools.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3207276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3207276", "title": "Contingent work", "text": "Contingent work\n\nContingent work or casual work is an employment relationship which is considered non-permanent. These jobs are typically part time (typically with variable hours), have limited job security, and result in payment on a piece work basis. Contingent work is usually not considered to be a career or part of a career. One of the features of contingent work is that it usually offers little or no opportunity for career development. Contingent workers are also often called freelancers, independent professionals, temporary contract workers, \"temps\", independent contractors, or consultants.\n\n\"Contingent work\" is not an entirely neutral term as commentators who use the phrase generally consider it to be a social problem. Employment agencies and classified advertising media are more likely to use the phrase \"casual work\", particularly to attract students who wish to earn money during the summer vacation but who would not consider the work as part of a long-term career. All casual work is considered to be contingent work, but not all contingent work is casual. In particular, part time jobs, or jobs in organisations that have a high staff turnover, may be considered contingent work but may not be casual.\n\nThe concept of what is now considered to be a \"job\", where one attends work at fixed hours was rare until the Industrial Revolution. Before then, the predominant regular work was in agriculture. Textile workers would often work from home, buying raw cotton from a merchant, spinning it and weaving it into cloth at home, before selling it on.\n\nIn the 1770s, cotton mills started to appear in Lancashire, England, using Richard Arkwright's spinning jenny and powered by water wheels. Workers would often work in twelve-hour shifts, six days a week. However, they would still often be paid on a piece work basis, and fines would be deducted from their pay for damage to machinery. Employers could hire and fire pretty much as they pleased, and if employees had any grievance about this, there was very little that they could do about it.\n\nIndividual workers were powerless to prevent exploitation by their employers. However, the realisation that all workers generally want the same things, and the benefits of collective bargaining, led to the formation of the first trade unions. As trade unions became larger, their sphere of influence increased, and started to involve political lobbying, resulting in much of the employment law that is now taken for granted.\n\nManufacturing has declined during the 20th century in the Western world. Many manufacturing organisations that employ large numbers of people have relocated their operations to developing nations. As a result, whenever they do hire staff in Europe or North America, they often need to be able to fire them quickly and keep costs as low as possible, to remain competitive. As a result, some employers may look for loopholes in employment law, or ways of engaging staff that allows them to circumvent union-negotiated employment law, creating what is now known as contingent work.\n\nAccording to the US Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), the nontraditional workforce includes \"multiple job holders, contingent and part-time workers, and people in alternative work arrangements\". These workers currently represent a substantial portion of the US workforce, and \"nearly four out of five employers, in establishments of all sizes and industries, use some form of nontraditional staffing\". \"People in alternative work arrangements\" includes independent contractors, employees of contract companies, workers who are on call, and temporary workers.\n\nAmong several other contributing factors, globalization has had a large impact on the growth in using contingent labor. Globalization contributes to rapid growth in industries, increased outsourcing, and a need for flexibility and agility to remain competitive. By engaging contract workers, organizations are able to be agile and save costs. The contingent workforce acts as a variable workforce for companies to select from to perform specific projects or complete specialized projects. Also as organizations make efforts to be more agile and to quickly respond to change in order to be more competitive, they turn to the contingent workforce to have on-demand access to professionals and experts. Organizations also see the opportunity to reduce benefits and retirement costs by engaging the contingent workforce. However, there is risk involved in avoiding these costs if an employee is improperly classified as a contingent worker. Using the contingent workforce is also cost-effective in that using contingent labor allows for adjustments to employment levels and employment costs depending on what kind of expertise and labor is need and at what time it is needed.\n\nTrends in the contingent workforce are also impacted by the economy. A study conducted by the MPS Group shows the relationship between the contingent labor cycle and the state of the economy. In a bullish economy, the demand for contingent labor is strong. This is most likely because organizations are trying to grow with the economy, and using contingent workers allows them to work with experts when needed, without the long-term costs of hiring them.\n\nA knowledge-driven economy also contributes to the growth in the use of the contingent workforce because organizations rely more on their specific and expert knowledge and expertise. As demand increases for highly skilled and knowledgeable people, the expertise of contract workers becomes more attractive.\n\nContingent workers are at a high risk of being injured or killed on the job. In 2015, 829 fatal injuries (17% of all occupational fatalities) occurred among contract workers, which only represent a subset of contingent workers. Studies have also shown a higher burden of non-fatal occupational injuries and illnesses among contingent workers compared to those in standard employment arrangements. There are many possible contributing factors to the high rates of injuries and illnesses among contingent workers. They are often inexperienced and assigned to hazardous jobs and tasks, may be reluctant to object to unsafe working conditions or to advocate for safety measures due to fear of job loss or other repercussions, and they may lack basic knowledge and skills to protect themselves from workplace hazards due to insufficient safety training. According to a joint guidance document released by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), both staffing agencies and host employers (i.e., the clients of staffing agencies) are responsible for providing and maintaining a safe and healthy work environment for contingent workers. Collaborative and interdisciplinary (e.g., epidemiology, occupational psychology, organizational science, economics, law, management, sociology, labor health and safety) research and intervention efforts are needed to protect and promote the occupational safety and health of contingent workers.\n\nContingent work jobs are widely referred to as McJobs. This term was made popular by Douglas Coupland's novel , and stems from the notion that jobs in McDonald's and other fast food and retail businesses are frequently insecure.\n\nCritics say that it is unfair to tarnish all employment agencies with the brush of contingent work. Some say that temporary work patterns such as self-employment, consultancy and telecommuting can bring benefits of flexibility not just to employers but also employees, can improve work-life balance, and can make it easier for workers to manage family responsibilities. However, it is argued that such benefits are realised only in middle class jobs, whose entry barriers are too high for most workers with below-average earnings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55867806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55867806", "title": "Delia North", "text": "Delia North\n\nDelia North is a South African statistician and a leader in statistics education in South Africa. She is the dean of the School of Mathematics, Statistics and Computer Science at the University of KwaZulu-Natal.\n\nNorth was educated at the University of Natal. She earned a bachelor's degree in mathematics and mathematical statistics with honours in mathematical statistics there, as well as a master's degree and Ph.D. in probability theory. She began her teaching career at the University of Natal in 1982, and remained with the university through its 2004 merger with the University of Durban-Westville to become the University of KwaZulu-Natal, when she became the leader of the combined statistics unit in the merged university.\n\nShe has been chair of the Education Committee of the South African Statistical Association since 2003, and she served as vice-president of the International Association for Statistics Education (the education branch of the International Statistical Institute) from 2007 to 2011.\n\nNorth is an elected member of the International Statistical Institute.\n"}
{"id": "40955181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40955181", "title": "Edward Niesen", "text": "Edward Niesen\n\nEdward Niesen was born in Chicago on June 4, 1908 and died March 12, 1974 in Delhi, India. He was an American Jesuit priest, missionary in India and Nepal where he taught in several schools, amongst them the St. Xavier's High School, Patna, the Godavari St. Xavier's, Kathmandu and St. Xavier's School, Delhi.\n\nJoining the Society of Jesus on 20 September 1926, he arrived in India in 1933. He completed his studies at St. Mary’s, Kurseong. After tertianship, he joined Fr. Marshall D. Moran in the founding of St. Xavier's High School, Patna, where he initially worked as vice-principal & hostel superintendent. Fr. Niesen could teach several subjects including mathematics and was an able administrator. During his time at St. Xavier's High School, Patna, students performed extremely well academically and won distinctions of various sorts like Rhodes Scholarships.\n\nIn 1949, when Fr. Moran went to Nepal, Niesen took charge as principal of St. Xavier's High School, Patna. Fr. Niesen introduced the house system at St. Xavier's High School, Patna in which the boys were divided into four houses- Lions, Leopards, Tigers & Panthers. The houses competed against each other in sports and other extra-curricular activities. The system exists at St. Xavier's High School, Patna to this very day and was also replicated at Godavari St. Xavier's, where Niesen later moved. A great sports man himself, Niesen encouraged his students to participate in sports. He formed leagues in all sports and there were tournaments organised throughout the school year that culminated in Annual Sports Day.\n\nBy 1954, Godavari St. Xavier's was well established and another school at Jawalakhel had been opened for the primary students. Niesen moved to Nepal to take up the work of principal of Godavari High School and superior of the Jesuits in Nepal. He also continued the task of teaching mathematics in all the senior classes. Later, Fr. Niesen moved to Jawalakhel to take over the junior school and built the \"new\" building at Jawalakhel, one of the first structures in Nepal using the then novel reinforced concrete pillars and slabs.\n\nFr. Niesen suffered from asthama, and later emphysema. By 1968 Fr. Niesen’s health had deteriorated, he was asked by the provincial to move to Delhi to take over the junior section of St. Xavier's School, Delhi, where he put all his skills to good use to build up that school, a task he continued until his death in March 1974.\n\n"}
{"id": "3721866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3721866", "title": "Euclid Consortium", "text": "Euclid Consortium\n\nThe Euclid Consortium is a distance learning educational consortium created in 2005 by the University of Bangui (Central African Republic), the Université Libre Internationale (Belgium), and the International Organization for Sustainable Development. The original name was Euclid University Consortium, but the structure was renamed in December 2008 in order to avoid confusion with EUCLID University, which is a member of the consortium.\n\nThe Euclid initiative began in June 2004 as a cooperative project between the Human Bioethics Treaty Organization and the Embassy of the Central African Republic in Washington, DC. This led to the formalization of an educational extension project with the University of Bangui and the private Université Libre Internationale of Brussels (Belgium) as co-founders. In January 2006, the agreements were revised and transferred with the formation of IOSD (the International Organization for Sustainable Development) and the participation of the Université Libre du Burkina alongside ULI.\n\nThe University of N'Djamena (UNDT, Chad), became a full member of the consortium in May 2006, adding the institutional recognition of its IAU (International Association of Universities) member status and the approval of its Ministry of Education to the initiative. In 2007, the Gaston Berger University of Senegal announced its intention to participate in the consortium and confirmed the same in 2008.\n\nThe Consortium organizes online degree programs on behalf of the member schools and manages other joint academic initiatives of interest to the participating universities. The programs are offered in French and English, notably in Diplomacy, Sustainable Development and Religious Studies, which are structured after the Bologna Process (including ECTS and Diploma Supplement) in order to follow both European Union and United States guidelines.\n\nThe consortium's educational programs are managed by 4 academic units called schools:\n\nSince 2009, the programs are directly managed by EUCLID (University), and the original academic units were absorbed in EUCLID. However, EUCLID University is not a recognised degree-granting institution. \n\nThe Euclid Consortium is headed by a high steward, the ambassador of the Central African Republic to the United States, His Excellency Emmanuel Touaboye and an executive president, Mr. Syed Zahid Ali, who is also the secretary-general of EUCLID (Euclid University).\n\nAcademic oversight is under the responsibility of the oversight council, whose co-chairmen are the rectors of the participating universities.\n\n\n+ Consortium members but not joint degree granters\n\nThis inter-university initiative was originally named \"Pôle d'Extension Universitaire Euclide\" and the name \"Euclid University\" was initially used as a short translation of the French name, hence giving the unintentional impression that the extension consortium was intended to be a free-standing, degree-granting institution. This technical and legal issue led to recognition problems in the English-speaking world. In order to correct this situation, the official English name was amended to \"Euclid University Consortium\" to emphasize the fact that Euclid was originally designed as a consortium, not a free-standing university with its own charter and degrees. In January 2009, the name was further changed to \"Euclid Consortium.\"\n\nBecause the international directory of UNESCO does not list inter-institutional consortia, the registration of the extension initiative was done under the entry for the universities of N'Djamena and Bangui.\n\nHence, the Consortium's recognition is tied to the recognition of the member universities, two of which are the actual degree granters, since the consortium itself has no direct degree-granting authority.\n\nIn December 2006, IOSD signed an agreement with the Islamic Chamber of Commerce and Industry, an affiliated institution of the 57 member-state Organisation of the Islamic Conference, establishing the recognition of its programs and applicable accreditations.\n\nIn 2008, the need for the consortium to obtain an autonomous charter and direct governmental accreditation led to the introduction of a multilateral Memorandum of Understanding which was approved by four initial Participating States. This intergovernmental agreement formalized the constitution of EUCLID (University) as an intergovernmental university framework with legal personality. This initial agreement was succeeded by a revised framework agreement, and both indicated that EUCLID would also become a member of the Euclid Consortium which remains an active partnership.\n\n"}
{"id": "26217405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26217405", "title": "Foothill Horizons Outdoor School", "text": "Foothill Horizons Outdoor School\n\nFoothill Horizons Outdoor School is an outdoor school located in Sonora, California. The center's formal name is Neal E. Wade Outdoor Education Center. It is operated by the Stanislaus County Office of Education. Stanislaus County Office of Education has been operating an Outdoor Education program for over 50 years.\n\nThe current director is Pam Ivie.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30633444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30633444", "title": "Full-Option Science System", "text": "Full-Option Science System\n\nFOSS (Full-Option Science System) is a research-based science curriculum for grades K—8 developed at the Lawrence Hall of Science, University of California, Berkeley. FOSS is also an ongoing research project dedicated to improving the learning and teaching of science.\n\nThe FOSS K–8 program was developed at the Lawrence Hall of Science, University of California at Berkeley, under three separate National Science Foundation grants (1988 1991, 1996.) The program was originally developed and trial tested in urban and suburban San Francisco Bay Area school districts and field-tested and implemented nationally in ten sites. Twenty-six modules were developed for K–6, and nine courses for middle school. The FOSS K–6 program went through a major revision in 2000 and was then adopted in Texas. The program went through a minor revision in 2005. A new, California specific, edition was developed for the California science adoption (K–5) in 2007. FOSS is currently published by Delta Education, a division of School Specialty Inc.\n\nThe FOSS program uses several instructional pedagogies: inquiry-based learning (each investigation is guided by questions), hands-on learning and active investigation (students work with materials and conduct investigations to attempt to answer questions), student-to-student interaction, writing (students keep careful notes in science notebooks), and research/reading (readings are included to enhance or underscore active investigation—students work with materials prior to doing any reading).\n\nEach K–6 module consists of a kit of student materials, a teacher guide, and a student reading book. Each middle school course includes a kit of student materials, a teacher guide, a Science Resources book, a lab notebook, and a course-specific multimedia component. The FOSS website, FOSSweb, contains additional online activities for students and resources for parents and teachers. FOSSweb has two sister sites, FOSSweb CA, for the California 2007 edition, and FOSSweb NYC, for New York City teachers using FOSS.\n\nFOSS is in use in every state in the country with over 100,000 teachers and 2 million students and is in approximately 16% of the nation's school districts. FOSS was the first non-textbook curriculum to make the California adoption list (1992) and was adopted in California for the 2007 science adoption (FOSS California K–5). The program is on many state adoption lists and is used in 50 of the 100 largest U.S. school districts. FOSS is cited as an exemplary program in publications by nationally recognized organizations in the science reform movement, including National Science Resources Center, and the National Science Teachers Association.\n\nFOSS has been approved as a recommended science program in each of the adoption states in which it has been submitted.\n\nScruggs, T., & Mastropieri, M. (1994). The construction\nof scientific knowledge by students with mild disabilities.\nThe Journal of Special Education, 28, 307-321.\n\n"}
{"id": "10647329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10647329", "title": "Full flight simulator", "text": "Full flight simulator\n\nFull flight simulator (FFS) is a term used by national (civil) aviation authorities (NAA) for a high technical level of flight simulator. Such authorities include the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) in the United States and the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA).\n\nThere are currently four levels of full flight simulator, levels A - D, level D being the highest standard and being eligible for zero flight time (ZFT) training of civil pilots when converting from one airliner type to another. In about 2012, these FFS levels will be changed as a result of work by an international working group chaired by the UK Royal Aeronautical Society Flight Simulation Group (RAeS FSG), which rationalised 27 previous categories of flight training device into 7 international ones. This work has been accepted by ICAO and is published under ICAO document 9625 Issue 3. The new Type 7 Full Flight Simulator will be the old Level D with enhancements in a number of areas including motion, visual and Communications/air traffic simulations.\n\nA Level D/Type 7 simulator simulates all aircraft systems that are accessible from the flight deck and are critical to training. For instance, accurate force feedback for the pilot's flight controls is provided through a simulator system called \"control loading\", and other systems such as avionics, communications and \"glass cockpit\" displays are also simulated.\n\nThis standard of simulator is used both for initial and recurrent training for commercial air transport (CAT) aircraft. Initial training is for conversion to a new aircraft type, and recurrent training is that which all commercial pilots must carry out at regular intervals (such as every six months) in order to retain their qualification to fly \"fare-paying passengers\" in CAT aircraft, loosely \"airliners\".\n\nA Level D/Type 7 FFS also provides motion feedback to the crew through a motion platform upon which the simulator cabin is mounted. The motion platform must produce accelerations in all of the six degrees of freedom (6-DoF) that can be experienced by a body that is free to move in space, using a principle called acceleration onset cueing, generally using the Stewart platform design.\n\nThe display system that shows imagery of the out-the-window (OTW) world to the pilots, is generally designed so that the imagery appears at a distant focus. This is called a collimated display, a word derived from \"co-linear\". The reason is so that each of two pilots, sitting side by side, can see essentially the same OTW imagery without angular errors or distortions. If a simple projection screen were used instead of a collimated display, each pilot would see the OTW at different angles.\n\nThe error angle (parallax) for a simple, non-collimated projection can be estimated in the following manner:\n\nformula_1 , where\n\nl — lateral distance between the pilots,\n\nR — distance from the pilot's head to screen.\n\nSo at l =1.5 m and R =5 m angle formula_2.\n\n"}
{"id": "4966696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4966696", "title": "Giancarlo Prete", "text": "Giancarlo Prete\n\nGiancarlo Prete (5 February 1943 in Rome, Italy – 9 March 2001, also in Rome, of a brain tumour) was an Italian actor.\n\nAfter he worked in the cinema as stuntman, Prete went to Alessandro Fersen's acting school (where he later returned as a teacher) and began to act in many films and in television serials.\n\nIn the following years Prete worked as dubbing director and acted only in television productions.\n\nHe was married to Elizabeth Jacinto.\n\n"}
{"id": "1793719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1793719", "title": "Haigazian University", "text": "Haigazian University\n\nHaigazian University (, pronounced \"Haygazyan Hamalsaran\"; ) is a higher education institution founded in 1955 in Beirut, Lebanon as Haigazian College. For a brief period starting 1992, name was changed to Haigazian University College before adopting the present name in 1996. It offers programs leading to Bachelor's degrees in the Arts and Sciences as well as Business Administration and Economics, in addition to Master's degrees in the Arts, Sciences and Business Administration. English is the main language of instruction, although some courses are offered in Armenian and Arabic. All degrees from Haigazian are recognized by the Lebanese government and the Association of International Colleges and Universities. It is supported by the Armenian Evangelical community, and was established primarily to meet the needs of the large Lebanese-Armenian population. However, the university is open to all students, regardless of race, nationality, or creed, and has professors and student body from all sections of Lebanese society.\n\nHaigazian University is named in honor of Dr. Armenag Haigazian (), former headmaster of the Jenanian Apostolic Institute of Konya, Turkey. Dr. Haigazian was a highly respected educator who received his Ph.D. from Yale University and returned to Turkey to serve his Armenian compatriots. When the genocide of the Armenians began, Dr. Haigazian had the opportunity to escape to the United States, but he chose to stay and continue his ministry. Later, he, along with many Armenian intellectuals, was rounded up to be driven into the Syrian desert. Dr. Haigazian died on the way in the prison of Kharpert in 1921 (\"New York Times\" article).\nConcurrently, eight Armenian colleges were also destroyed in Turkey. Although these aspects of education and service were brought to an end, the dream continued in the minds of Dr. Haigazian's descendants and others. The Mehagian family (Mary Mehagian and Florence Mehagian-Guertmenian) of Phoenix, Arizona, close relatives of Dr. Haigazian, donated capital through the AMAA and worked hand in hand with Stephen Philibosian to get Haigazian College started.\nThe University was founded on October 17, 1955, by the Union of Armenian Evangelical Churches in the Near East (UAECNE) and the Armenian Missionary Association of America (AMAA) as a liberal arts college to assist in the preparation of teachers and pastors.\n\nPrior to this date, the Armenian Evangelical community of Beirut, to complement its high schools and the Teacher Training needs, had established two post-secondary educational programs: the Teacher's Training Institute, which was housed in the library of the Central High School and operated from 1948–51, and the Armenian Evangelical College, which held a Freshman Arts and Sciences program under the sponsorship of the First Armenian Evangelical Church of Beirut. These two entities merged in 1951 forming a Freshman Arts and Sciences plus a Sophomore Arts program, and they continued to serve the Armenian Community until 1955, when Haigazian College was established.\n\nHaigazian College was originally designed to function as a junior college offering two years of university-level education. However, a demand for upper-division classes encouraged the institution to develop four year programs.\n\nThe university was founded on October 17, 1955, by the Union of the Armenian Evangelical Churches in the Near East (UAECNE) and the Armenian Missionary Association of America (AMAA) as a liberal arts college to assist in the preparation of teachers and pastors. When the University opened in 1955, there were 43 students enrolled. Student enrollment reached 740 before the start of the civil disturbances in Lebanon in 1975.\n\nOn October 17, 1955 Haigazian University was established in Beirut, Lebanon by the joint endeavors of the Armenian Missionary Association of America (AMAA) and the Union of the Armenian Evangelical Churches in the Near East (UAECNE).\n\nThe university was first located in the Webb Building, a ten-room house converted for college use. Later, a seven-story building was added. This building was called the Mehagian Academic Centre in honor of Mr. and Mrs. A. S. Mehagian, whose financial support made its construction possible. A grant from Mr. Stephen P. Mugar enabled the university to acquire a beautiful historic structure, subsequently named the Mugar Building, to honor the donor’s parents.\n\nPrior to this date, the Armenian Evangelical community of Beirut, to complement its high schools, had established two post-secondary educational entities: the Teacher’s Training Institute, which was housed in the library of the Central High School and operated from 1948–51, and the Armenian Evangelical College, which held a Freshman Arts and Sciences program under the sponsorship of the First Armenian Evangelical Church of Beirut. These two entities merged in 1951 forming a Freshman Arts and Sciences plus a Sophomore Arts program, and they continued to serve the Armenian Community until 1955, when Haigazian College was established. Haigazian College was originally designed to function as a junior college offering two years of university-level education. However, a demand for upper-division classes encouraged the institution to develop four-year programs.\n\nHaigazian operated under its original name of \"College\" until 1991.\n\nIn keeping with Near Eastern nomenclature, the name was changed to Haigazian University College in 1992.\n\nOn December 28, 1996, the Ministry of Culture and Higher Education of Lebanon issued decree number 9657, which authorized the institution to change its name to Haigazian University.\nDr. John Markarian, the first president of the University, served until June 1966. During the years 1967 to 1971, Dr. Gilbert Bilezikian held this position; then Dr. Markarian returned to the post until his retirement in June 1982. Subsequently, the presidency was held by Dr. Verne H. Fletcher until February 1985. Miss Wilma Cholakian, the administrative dean, was then responsible for the operation of the University until August 30, 1995. Dr. John Khanjian served as president from September 1, 1995, until August 1, 2002. On September 1, 2002, Rev. Dr. Paul Haidostian became president.\nWhen the University opened in 1955, there were 43 students enrolled. Student enrollment reached 650 before the start of the civil disturbances in Lebanon in 1975. The present enrollment is approximately 750 with a faculty and staff of 150. So far, the university has granted the Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Business Administration, Bachelor of Science and Master of Arts, Master of Business Administration degrees in various fields to more than 2,700 students.\n\nEmpowered by its newly acquired authorization from the Ministry of Culture and Higher Education to offer graduate programs, since 1995, the institution has started four Masters programs: Educational Administration and Supervision, General Psychology, Clinical Psychology, and Masters in Business Administration. As clearly highlighted during the 50th Anniversary celebratory activities throughout the year 2005, Haigazian University has served Lebanon and the region by empowering valuable human resources for a better life and service.\n\nThe university was first located in the Webb Building the residence of American Missionary Elizabeth Webb, a ten-room house converted for college use. Later, a seven-story building was added. This building was called the Mehagian Academic Center in honor of Mr. and Mrs. A. S. Mehagian, whose financial support made its construction possible. A grant from Mr. Stephen P. Mugar of Boston, MA enabled the university to acquire a beautiful historic structure, a sample of the Lebanese architectural heritage, subsequently named the Mugar Building, to honor the donor's parents.\n\nIn 1987, due to the Lebanese war, the University moved to the Christian Medical Center in the Ashrafieh district, and classes continued as usual. On March 27, 1996, the Board of Managers decided that the University should return to its original campus on Rue Mexique, Kantari. On February 16, 1997, the renovation of the former campus began. On October 6, 1997, classes resumed in the renovated and revitalized Kantari campus to the delight of students and the community at large.\n\nEarly in July 2001, began the construction of a fourth building on the Mugar property which has a media center, a board room, and faculty offices. This new facility became operational in October 2001. Another addition, a new heritage building on May Ziadeh street will be ready for use early 2010.\n\nHaigazian University is named in honor of Dr. Armenag Haigazian, former headmaster of the Jenanian Apostolic Institute of Konya, Turkey. Dr. Haigazian was an educator who received his Ph.D. from Yale University and returned to Turkey to serve his Armenian compatriots. After the law for forced exile of the Armenians passed in the Ottoman Parliament, Dr. Haigazian had the opportunity to escape to the United States, but he chose to stay and continue his ministry.\n\nLater, he, along with the Armenian intellectuals, was rounded up to be driven to the Syrian desert. Dr. Haigazian died on the way in the prison of Kharpert in 1921. Concurrently, eight Armenian colleges were destroyed in Turkey. Although these realities of education and service were brought to an end, the dream continued in the minds of Dr. Haigazian’s descendants and others. The Mehagian family (Mary Mehagian and Florence Mehagian-Guertmenian) of Phoenix, Arizona, relatives of Dr. Haigazian, donated capital through the Armenian Missionary Association of America (AMAA) and worked hand in hand with Stephen Philibosian to get Haigazian College started.\n\nDr. John Markarian, the first president of the University, served until June 1966. From 1966 to 1968, Dr. Joseph Spradley, chair of the division of sciences, served as acting president while on a 3-year leave of absence from Wheaton College in Illinois. During the years 1968 to 1971, Dr. Gilbert Bilezikian, also from Wheaton College, held the presidency; then Dr. Markarian returned to the post until his retirement in June 1982. Subsequently, the presidency was held by Dr. Verne H. Fletcher until February 1985. Miss Wilma Cholakian, the administrative dean, was then responsible for the operation of the University until August 30, 1995. Dr. John Khanjian served as president from September 1, 1995, until August 1, 2002. On September 1, 2002, Rev. Dr. Paul Haidostian became president.\n\nIn 1987, due to the war, the university moved to the Christian Medical Center in the Achrafieh district of Beirut, and classes continued as usual. On March 27, 1996, the Board of Managers decided that the university should return to its original campus on Rue Mexique, Kantari. On February 16, 1997, the renovation of the former campus began. On October 6, 1997, classes resumed in the renovated and revitalized Kantari campus.\n\nIn July 2001, construction began on a fourth building on the Mugar property which has a media center, a board room, and faculty offices. This new facility became operational in October 2001. In 2003, Haigazian University started to use the whole seven floors of the south wing of the adjacent Armenian Evangelical College (AEC), according to a non-rent agreement between the administration and the AEC trustees.\n\nEmpowered by its newly acquired authorization from the Ministry of Culture and Higher Education to offer graduate programs, since 1995, the institution has started four M.A. programs: Educational Administration and Supervision, General Psychology, Clinical Psychology, and Masters in Business Administration.\n\n\n\nHaigazian University has the following publications:\n\nThe Lebanese Rocket Society which was led by Manoug Manougian and consisted a small group of students from the Haigazian University. The society developed into the wider Lebanese space program and it produced the first rockets of the Arab World, which were capable of suborbital flight.\n\nIn November 1960, a group of Haigazian College students got together under the guidance of Manoug Manougian (a Math and Physics instructor) to form the Haigazian College Rocket Society (HCRS).\n\nAspects of the first single-stage rocket were assigned to each student. As a result of the lack of required equipment, the group was obliged to resort to flight testing without any fuel tests in the laboratories. After a number of failures, the project was crowned with success.\n\nIn April 1961, a single-stage solid propellant rocket was Launched and reached an altitude of about one kilometer. With further improvements of the solid fuel system, a similar rocket called HCRS-3 was Launched all the way up to 2 000 m.\n\nThe Lebanese President, Fouad Chehab, as a result of these experiments, met with the members of HCRS and granted financial assistance for the project (10 thousand LL for 1961 and 15 thousand LL for 1962).\n\nDuring the academic year 1961-1962, the society worked on two-stage rockets with further improvements of the separation system, solid fuel system, and vehicle design. On May 25, 1962, HCRS-7 Cedar was Launched up to 11,500 m, and the Lebanese Army was responsible for the security of the launch. In the summer of 1962, two more rockets, Cedar ll B and Cedar ll c, Were Launched to a distance of 20 km.\n\nDue to the successes of the HCRS new members joined and a new group was formed in 1962, it was called the Lebanese Rocket Society (LRS).\n\nThe LRS was directed by a main committee of six members: Mr. M. Manougian of Haigazian College (Director), Dr. P. Mourad of AUB (advisor), Mr. Karamanougian of Haigazian college, Mr.J. Sfeir (Electronic engineer), Mr, E. Kai (Engineer geodesist), and an officer expert in ballistics (granted by the Army). Further tests were planned on design and construction of multistage rockets. Mr. Hart supervised the works of the HCRS while Mr. Manougian was in the U.S.A. Members of the HCRS at the College were: Hampartzum Karaguezian, Hrair Aintablian, Hrair Sahagian, Jirair Zenian, and Jean Jack Guvlekjian.\n\nOn November 21, 1962 Cedar-3, a three-stage solid propellant rocket prepared by the Haigazian group was launched. It had a length of 6.80 m and weight of 1250 kg.\n\nAfter several other launchings, an accident occurred during the summer of 1964, which hospitalized 2 students, who later recovered. However, the launchings were ended then, and no \"big bang\" has taken place since. The outcome of these experiments was not a Haigazian student walking on the moon, but more students walking into Haigazian’s admissions office. One has to realize that nowadays, after the Lebanese civil wars, the idea of a rocket is not very pleasing, but back in the 1960s when both the U.S.and the U.S.S.R. were trying to reach the moon, Haigazian College was also on track.\n\nA reproduction of a 1964 postage stamp produced by the Lebanese postal service to commemorate the 21st anniversary of Lebanese Independence. Depicted is one of Haigazian College's Cedar rockets.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "430914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=430914", "title": "John Cheever", "text": "John Cheever\n\nJohn William Cheever (May 27, 1912 – June 18, 1982) was an American novelist and short story writer. He is sometimes called \"the Chekhov of the suburbs\". His fiction is mostly set in the Upper East Side of Manhattan, the Westchester suburbs, old New England villages based on various South Shore towns around Quincy, Massachusetts, where he was born, and Italy, especially Rome. He is \"now recognized as one of the most important short fiction writers of the 20th century.\" While Cheever is perhaps best remembered for his short stories (including \"The Enormous Radio\", \"Goodbye, My Brother\", \"The Five-Forty-Eight\", \"The Country Husband\", and \"The Swimmer\"), he also wrote four novels, comprising \"The Wapshot Chronicle\" (National Book Award, 1958),\n\"The Wapshot Scandal\" (William Dean Howells Medal, 1965), \"Bullet Park\" (1969), \"Falconer\" (1977) and a novella \"Oh What a Paradise It Seems\" (1982).\n\nHis main themes include the duality of human nature: sometimes dramatized as the disparity between a character's decorous social persona and inner corruption, and sometimes as a conflict between two characters (often brothers) who embody the salient aspects of both – light and dark, flesh and spirit. Many of his works also express a nostalgia for a vanishing way of life (as evoked by the mythical St. Botolphs in the \"Wapshot\" novels), characterized by abiding cultural traditions and a profound sense of community, as opposed to the alienating nomadism of modern suburbia.\n\nA compilation of his short stories, \"The Stories of John Cheever\", won the 1979 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction and a National Book Critics Circle Award, and its first paperback edition won a 1981 National Book Award.\n\nOn April 27, 1982, six weeks before his death, Cheever was awarded the National Medal for Literature by the American Academy of Arts and Letters. His work has been included in the Library of America.\n\nJohn William Cheever was born in Quincy, Massachusetts, the second child of Frederick Lincoln Cheever and Mary Liley Cheever. His father was a prosperous shoe salesman, and Cheever spent much of his childhood in a large Victorian house, at 123 Winthrop Avenue, in the then-genteel suburb of Wollaston, Massachusetts. In the mid-1920s, however, as the New England shoe and textile industries began their long decline, Frederick Cheever lost most of his money and began to drink heavily. To pay the bills, Mary Cheever opened a gift shop in downtown Quincy—an \"abysmal humiliation\" for the family, as John saw it. In 1926, Cheever began attending Thayer Academy, a private day school, but he found the atmosphere stifling and performed poorly, and finally transferred to Quincy High in 1928. A year later he won a short story contest sponsored by the \"Boston Herald\" and was invited back to Thayer as a \"special student\" on academic probation. His grades continued to be poor, however, and, in March 1930, he was either expelled for smoking or (more likely) departed of his own accord when the headmaster delivered an ultimatum to the effect that he must either apply himself or leave. The 18-year-old Cheever wrote a sardonic account of this experience, titled \"Expelled\", which was subsequently published in \"The New Republic\". (1930).\n\nAround this time, Cheever's older brother Fred, forced to withdraw from Dartmouth in 1926 because of the family's financial crisis, re-entered Cheever's life \"when the situation was most painful and critical,\" as Cheever later wrote. After the 1932 crash of Kreuger & Toll, in which Frederick Cheever had invested what was left of his money, the Cheever house on Winthrop Avenue was lost to foreclosure. The parents separated, while John and Fred took an apartment together on Beacon Hill, in Boston. In 1933, John wrote to Elizabeth Ames, the director of the Yaddo artist's colony in Saratoga Springs, New York: \"The idea of leaving the city,\" he said, \"has never been so distant or desirable.\" Ames denied his first application but offered him a place the following year, whereupon Cheever decided to sever his \"ungainly attachment\" to his brother. Cheever spent the summer of 1934 at Yaddo, which would serve as a second home for much of his life.\n\nFor the next few years, Cheever divided his time between Manhattan, Saratoga, Lake George (where he was caretaker of the Yaddo-owned Triuna Island), and Quincy, where he continued to visit his parents, who had reconciled and moved to an apartment at 60 Spear Street. Cheever drove from one place to another in a dilapidated Model A roadster, but had no permanent address. In 1935, Katharine White of \"The New Yorker\" bought Cheever's story \"Buffalo\", for $45—the first of many that Cheever would publish in the magazine. Maxim Lieber became his literary agent, 1935–1941. In 1938, he began work for the Federal Writers' Project in Washington, D. C., which he considered an embarrassing boondoggle. As an editor for the \"WPA Guide to New York City\", Cheever was charged with (as he put it) \"twisting into order the sentences written by some incredibly lazy bastards.\" He quit after less than a year and a few months later he met his future wife, Mary Winternitz, seven years his junior. She was a daughter of Milton Winternitz, dean of Yale Medical School, and granddaughter of Thomas A. Watson, an assistant to Alexander Graham Bell during the invention of the telephone. They married in 1941.\n\nCheever enlisted in the Army on May 7, 1942. His first collection of short stories, \"The Way Some People Live\", was published in 1943 to mixed reviews. Cheever himself came to despise the book as \"embarrassingly immature\", and for the rest of his life to destroyed every copy he could lay his hands on. However, the book may have saved his life after falling into the hands of Major Leonard Spigelgass, an MGM executive and officer in the Army Signal Corps, who was struck by Cheever's \"childlike sense of wonder\". Early that summer, Cheever was transferred to the former Paramount studio in Astoria, Queens, New York City, where he commuted via subway from his apartment in Chelsea, Manhattan, New York City. Meanwhile, most of his old infantry company was killed on a Normandy beach during the D-Day invasion. Cheever's daughter Susan was born on July 31, 1943.\n\nAfter the war, Cheever moved his family to an apartment building at 400 East 59th Street, near Sutton Place, Manhattan; almost every morning for the next five years, he would dress in his only suit and take the elevator to a maid's room in the basement, where he stripped to his boxer shorts and wrote until lunchtime. In 1946, he accepted a $4,800 advance from Random House to resume work on his novel, \"The Holly Tree\", which he had discontinued during the war. \"The Enormous Radio\" appeared in the May 17, 1947, issue of \"The New Yorker\" — a Kafkaesque tale about a sinister radio that broadcasts the private conversations of tenants in a New York apartment building. A startling advance on Cheever's early, more naturalistic work, the story elicited a fan letter from the magazine's irascible editor, Harold Ross: \"It will turn out to be a memorable one, or I am a fish.\" Cheever's son Benjamin was born on May 4, 1948.\n\nCheever's work became longer and more complex, apparently a protest against the \"slice of life\" fiction typical of \"The New Yorker\" in those years. An early draft of \"The Day the Pig Fell into the Well\"—a long story with elaborate Chekhovian nuances, meant to \"operate something like a rondo\", as Cheever wrote to his friend and \"New Yorker\" editor William Maxwell—was completed in 1949, though the magazine did not make space for it until five years later. In 1951, Cheever wrote \"Goodbye, My Brother\", after a gloomy summer in Martha's Vineyard. Largely on the strength of these two stories (still in manuscript at the time), Cheever was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship. On May 28, 1951, Cheever moved to Beechwood, the suburban estate of Frank A. Vanderlip, a banker, in the Westchester hamlet of Scarborough-on-Hudson, where he rented a small cottage on the edge of the estate. The house, coincidentally, had been occupied before the Cheevers by another suburban chronicler, Richard Yates. In Scarborough, he was a casual volunteer for the Briarcliff Manor Fire Department.\n\nCheever's second collection, \"The Enormous Radio\", was published in 1953. Reviews were mostly positive, though Cheever's reputation continued to suffer because of his close association with \"The New Yorker\" (considered middlebrow by such influential critics as Dwight Macdonald), and he was particularly pained by the general preference for J. D. Salinger's \"Nine Stories\", published around the same time. Meanwhile, Random House demanded that Cheever either produce a publishable novel or pay back his advance, whereupon Cheever wrote Mike Bessie at Harper & Brothers (\"These old bones are up for sale\"), who bought him out of his Random House contract. In the summer of 1956, Cheever finished \"The Wapshot Chronicle\" while vacationing in Friendship, Maine, and received a congratulatory telegram from William Maxwell: \"WELL ROARED LION.\" With the proceeds from the sale of film rights to \"The Housebreaker of Shady Hill\", Cheever and his family spent the following year in Italy, where his son Federico was born on March 9, 1957 (\"We wanted to call him Frederick\", Cheever wrote, \"but there is of course no K in the alphabet here and I gave up after an hour or two\").\n\n\"The Wapshot Scandal\" was published in 1964, and received perhaps the best reviews of Cheever's career up to that point (amid quibbles about the novel's episodic structure). Cheever appeared on the cover of \"Time\" magazine's March 27 issue, this for an appreciative profile, \"Ovid in Ossining\". (In 1961 Cheever had moved to a stately, stone-ended Dutch Colonial farmhouse in Ossining, on the east bank of the Hudson.) \"The Swimmer\" appeared in the July 18, 1964 issue of \"The New Yorker\". Cheever noted with chagrin that the story (one of his best) appeared toward the back of the issue—behind a John Updike story—since, as it happened, Maxwell and other editors at the magazine were a little bewildered by its non-\"New Yorker\"ish surrealism. In the summer of 1966, a screen adaptation of \"The Swimmer\", starring Burt Lancaster, was filmed in Westport, Connecticut. Cheever was a frequent visitor on the set, and made a cameo appearance in the movie.\n\nBy then Cheever's alcoholism had become severe, exacerbated by torment concerning his bisexuality. Still, he blamed most of his marital woes on his wife, and in 1966 he consulted a psychiatrist, David C. Hays, about her hostility and \"needless darkness\". After a session with Mary Cheever, the psychiatrist asked to see the couple jointly; Cheever, heartened, believed his wife's difficult behavior would finally be addressed. At the joint session, however, Hays said\n(as Cheever noted in his journal) that Cheever himself was the problem: \"a neurotic man, narcissistic, egocentric, friendless, and so deeply involved in [his] own defensive illusions that [he has] invented a manic-depressive wife.\" Cheever soon terminated therapy.\n\n\"Bullet Park\" was published in 1969, and received a devastating review from Benjamin DeMott on the front page of \"The New York Times Book Review\": \"John Cheever's short stories are and will remain lovely birds... But in the gluey atmosphere of \"Bullet Park\" no birds sing.\" Cheever's alcoholic depression deepened, and in May he resumed psychiatric treatment (which again proved fruitless). He began an affair with actress Hope Lange in the late 1960s.\n\nOn May 12, 1973, Cheever awoke coughing uncontrollably, and learned at the hospital that he had almost died from pulmonary edema caused by alcoholism. After a month in the hospital, he returned home vowing never to drink again; however, he resumed drinking in August. Despite his precarious health, he spent the fall semester teaching (and drinking, both with fellow writer-teacher, Raymond Carver) at the Iowa Writers' Workshop, where his students included T. C. Boyle, Allan Gurganus, and Ron Hansen. As his marriage continued to deteriorate, Cheever accepted a professorship at Boston University the following year and moved into a fourth-floor walkup apartment at 71 Bay State Road. Cheever's drinking soon became suicidal and, in March 1975, his brother Fred, now virtually indigent, but sober after his own lifelong bout with alcoholism, drove John back to Ossining. On April 9, Cheever was admitted to the Smithers Alcoholic Rehabilitation Unit in New York, where he shared a bedroom and bath with four other men. Driven home by his wife on May 7, Cheever never drank alcohol again.\n\nIn March 1977, Cheever appeared on the cover of \"Newsweek\" with the caption, \"A Great American Novel: John Cheever's \"Falconer.\"\" The novel was No. 1 on the \"New York Times\" Best Seller list for three weeks. \"The Stories of John Cheever\" appeared in October 1978, and became one of the most successful collections ever, selling 125,000 copies in hardback and winning universal acclaim.\n\nCheever was awarded the Edward MacDowell Medal for outstanding contribution to the arts by the MacDowell Colony in 1979.\n\nIn the summer of 1981, a tumor was discovered in Cheever's right lung, and, in late November, he returned to the hospital and learned that the cancer had spread to his femur, pelvis, and bladder. Cheever's last novel, \"Oh What a Paradise It Seems,\" was published in March 1982; only 100 pages long and relatively inferior (as Cheever himself suspected), the book received respectful reviews in part because it was widely known the author was dying of cancer. On April 27, he received the National Medal for Literature at Carnegie Hall, where colleagues were shocked by Cheever's ravaged appearance after months of cancer therapy. \"A page of good prose\", he declared in his remarks, \"remains invincible.\" As John Updike remembered, \"All the literary acolytes assembled there fell quite silent, astonished by such faith.\"\n\nCheever died on June 18, 1982. The flags in Ossining were lowered to half staff for 10 days after Cheever's death. He is buried at First Parish Cemetery, Norwell, Massachusetts.\n\nIn 1987, Cheever's widow, Mary, signed a contract with a small publisher, Academy Chicago, for the right to publish Cheever's uncollected short stories. The contract led to a long legal battle and a book of 13 stories by the author entitled \"Fall River and Other Uncollected Stories\", published in 1994 by Academy Chicago Publishers.\n\nTwo of Cheever's children, Susan and Benjamin, became writers. Susan's memoir, \"Home Before Dark\" (1984), revealed Cheever's bisexuality, which was confirmed by his posthumously published letters and journals. This was parodied to comedic effect in a 1992 episode of the TV sitcom \"Seinfeld\", when the character Susan discovers explicit love letters from Cheever to her father.\n\nAfter Blake Bailey published his biography of Richard Yates, \"A Tragic Honesty\" (2003), Cheever's son Ben suggested Bailey write an authoritative biography of Cheever. The book was published by Knopf on March 10, 2009 and won that year's National Book Critics Circle Award in Biography and the Francis Parkman Prize, and was a finalist for the Pulitzer and James Tait Black Memorial Prize.\n\nAlso in 2009, Cheever was featured in \"Soul of a People: Writing America's Story\", a 90-minute documentary about the WPA Writers' Project. His life during the 1930s is also highlighted in the companion book, \"Soul of a People: The WPA Writers' Project Uncovers Depression America\".\n\nCheever's name is mentioned in the lyrics of 2017 song \"Carin at the Liquor Store\" by the American band The National.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33714586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33714586", "title": "Johns Hopkins Writing Seminars", "text": "Johns Hopkins Writing Seminars\n\nFounded in 1947, the Johns Hopkins Writing Seminars is an academic program offering undergraduate and graduate degrees in writing in the Zanvyl Krieger School of Arts & Sciences at Johns Hopkins University. It is the second-oldest creative writing program in the United States. \n\nNotable faculty of the program have included Edward Albee, John Barth, Madison Smartt Bell, J. M. Coetzee, Mary Jo Salter, Stephen Dixon, Mark Hertsgaard, Brad Leithauser, John Irwin, J.D. McClatchy, Alice McDermott, Mark Crispin Miller, Andrew Motion, Wyatt Prunty, David St. John, Mark Strand, Robert Stone, and David Yezzi.\n\nWriter David Yezzi currently chairs the program, which has a strong reputation. It has been ranked \"One of the Top Ten Graduate Programs in Creative Writing\" by The Atlantic. In 1997, \"US News and World Report\" ranked the program second in the United States out of sixty-five eligible full-residency MFA programs. In 2011, Poets & Writers ranked Hopkins seventeenth nationally out of 157 eligible full-residency MFA programs. The long respected Science Writing program was closed down in 2013 as an on-campus program, but was re-established as an online/low residency program shortly thereafter.\n\n\nThe Writing Seminars hosts the Turnbull Lectures, a yearly lecture series on the topic of poetry. The series was established in 1891 and has run almost continuously between the years 1891-1984 and 2000–present. Recent lecturers have included Tracy K. Smith, Terrance Hayes, Richard Wilbur, Paul Muldoon, Stanley Plumly, Edward Mendelson, and Edna Longley.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30987049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30987049", "title": "Kriegsschule (Austria)", "text": "Kriegsschule (Austria)\n\nThe k.u.k. War College, also k.u.k. Staff College (Ge: \"k.u.k. Kriegsschule\") was the highest military facility to educate, instruct, train, and develop \"general staff officers\" of the Austrian Empire and later the Austro-Hungarian Empire.\n\nIt was located in Vienna, and active from 1852 to 1918.\n\nEstablished in 1852, the \"k.u.k. War College\" was an outgrowth of the previous centers of Austrian military scholarship: the \"Kriegsarchiv\" and the \"Österreichische militärische Zeitschrift\" (Austrian Military Journal). Having been earlier suggested by the likes of officers including Joseph Radetzky von Radetz, it was organized early in the reign of Emperor Franz Josef. Among its students and faculty were such influential members of the Austro-Hungarian military as Count Franz Conrad von Hötzendorf, who attended the school and later taught tactics there from 1888 to 1892. \n"}
{"id": "56264438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56264438", "title": "List of English-medium Schools in Bangladesh", "text": "List of English-medium Schools in Bangladesh\n\nThis is a list of English-medium schools in Bangladesh. The syllabus most common in usage is the Edexcel and Cambridge. Other syllabi are also used, although rarely.\n"}
{"id": "26758617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26758617", "title": "List of law schools in Egypt", "text": "List of law schools in Egypt\n\nThis is a list of schools in Egypt dedicated to the study of Law.\n\nAlexandria Governorate\n\nAsyut Governorate\n\nBeni Suef Governorate\n\nCairo Governorate\n\nDakahlia Governorate\n\nGharbia Governorate\n\nGiza Governorate\n\nHelwan Governorate\n\nMonufia Governorate\n\nQalyubia Governorate\n\nQena Governorate\n\nSharqia Governorate\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42350645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42350645", "title": "Marion Walter", "text": "Marion Walter\n\nMarion Walter (born July 30, 1928 in Berlin, Germany) is a mathematician who retired as Professor of Mathematics at University of Oregon in 1994. There is a theorem named after her, called Marion Walter's theorem.\n\nBorn in Germany in 1928, she left on a \"Kindertransport\" to England where she attended a boarding school.\n\nAfter she left school in December 1944 the school's only mathematics teacher resigned and since it was difficult to find a replacement during the war period, she was asked to teach maths, in part because she had earned a mark of distinction on her Cambridge University School Certificate exam. She taught for two terms and found she enjoyed teaching.\n\nShe attended college in England for two years before leaving for the United States in 1948. She then attended Hunter College, majoring in mathematics and minoring in education, graduating in 1950.\n\nAfter graduating, she taught at Hunter College High School and George Washington High School. She began taking evening classes for a master's degree in mathematics at New York University. She worked as a research assistant, mainly doing computing work at what became the Courant Institute.\n\nIn the summers of 1952 and 1953 she was awarded a National Bureau of Standards summer scholarship to study at the Institute of Numerical Analysis at UCLA.\n\nShe earned her master's degree in mathematics from New York University in 1954.\n\nShe accepted a teaching assistantship at Cornell University. In 1956, she took a one-year appointment at Simmons College in Boston. At the time, the college did not offer a major in mathematics but at the end of the year she was asked to create this major. Disliking the administrative aspects, she stepped down as department chair after four years, remaining there teaching until 1965 when she left to concentrate on her doctorate at Harvard Graduate School of Education, earning an Ed.D. in 1967.\n\nIn 1960, she earned a fellowship to attend the National Science Foundation Summer Program at Stanford.\n\nAt Harvard, she formed a group called the Boston Area Math Specialists which gives monthly workshops for practicing teachers.\n\nShe was a mathematics consultant to the project that became \"Sesame Street\".\n\nShe worked briefly in Israel as a UNESCO consultant for mathematics teaching.\n\nIn 1977, she accepted a teaching position at University of Oregon where she remained until her retirement in 1994.\n\nIn 1993, Marion Walter's Theorem, which deals with the area of the hexagon formed by trisecting the sides of triangles, was named for her.\n\nShe wrote a book on using mirrors to explore symmetry - Make a Bigger Puddle, Make a Smaller Worm (1971), which won an honourable mention from the New York Academy of Science Children's Book Award Program, as did her 1985 book \"The Mirror Puzzle Book\".\n\n"}
{"id": "21172747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21172747", "title": "Matching person and technology model", "text": "Matching person and technology model\n\nThe matching person and technology model is an organizational framework to assess and recommend successful use of a variety of assistive technologies for people with disabilities: educational technology, and those used in the workplace, school, home; for healthcare, for mobility and performing daily activities. Specialized devices for hearing loss, speech, eyesight and cognition as well as general or everyday technologies are also included. Research shows that although a technology may appear perfect for a given need, it may be used inappropriately or even go unused when critical personality preferences, psychosocial characteristics or needed environmental support are not considered. The use and non-use of technology as conceptualized in the Matching person and technology model has been validated by many researchers and authors representing the fields of occupational therapy, physical therapy, speech language pathology, psychology, and others. The matching person and technology model is operationalized by a series of reliable and valid measures that provide a person-centered and individualized approach to matching individuals with the most appropriate technologies for their use. The matching person & technology model and measures were developed by Marcia J. Scherer beginning in 1986.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10419299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10419299", "title": "Michael Gunder", "text": "Michael Gunder\n\nMichael Gunder is an Associate Professor in the School of Architecture and Planning at The University of Auckland, and is a past president of the New Zealand Planning Institute. He has a BA (Sociology), MA (Planning) and PhD in Planning. In 2011 he was made a Fellow of the New Zealand Planning Institute. He is the Managing Editor of the academic journal Planning Theory.\n\nGunder spent fifteen years working as a professional planner in government and as a consultant, prior to becoming an academic in 1994. He has worked in New Zealand, Canada and the European Union. He was HOD of the Planning Department, University of Auckland, 1999–2001, and is the author of over 60 academic articles and monographs. His main areas of expertise include public policy review, economic development, transportation and strategic planning, and his current academic research is focused on the application of poststructuralism and psychoanalytic theory towards the understanding of planning practice and public policy formulation.\n"}
{"id": "44470727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44470727", "title": "Misty Lown", "text": "Misty Lown\n\nMisty Lown is an American dance teacher and studio owner. She is the founder of \"Misty's Dance Unlimited\" and the \"More Than Just Great Dancing\" dance studio affiliate program.\n\nShe founded Misty's Dance Unlimited in 1998 in Onalaska, Wisconsin. Misty's Dance Unlimited teaches ballet, tap, jazz, hip hop, and beginner's classes. The studio integrates classes on community building and service into the dance curriculum. Lown is also the owner of More Than Just Great Dancing, an international affiliation program that establishes standards for dance programs and management. The program included 25 dance studios as of 2013. That year Lown and Misty's Dance Unlimited won Evoloshen's \"Most Amazing Companies\" award.\n\nShe married her high school boyfriend and has five children.\n"}
{"id": "8881224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8881224", "title": "Murray S. Klamkin", "text": "Murray S. Klamkin\n\nMurray Seymour Klamkin (March 5, 1921 – August 6, 2004) was an American mathematician, known as prolific proposer and editor of professionally challenging mathematical problems.\n\nKlamkin was born on March 5, 1921 in Brooklyn, New York. He received a bachelor's degree from the Cooper Union in 1942 and, after four years of service in the United States Army, earned a master's degree from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn in 1947, where he taught from 1948 until 1957.\n\nAfter this, Klamkin worked at AVCO, taught at SUNY Buffalo (1962–1964), and served as the principal research scientist at Ford Motor Company (1965–1976). During this period, he was also a visiting professor at the University of Minnesota. After leaving Ford, he became a professor at the University of Waterloo. \nFrom 1976 to 1981 Klamkin was the chairman of the Department of Mathematics at the University of Alberta.\n\nAfter 1981 he became an emeritus professor at Alberta. Klamkin died August 6, 2004.\n\nKlamkin was known worldwide as a prolific proposer and editor of professionally challenging mathematical problems. He served as problem editor for \"SIAM Review\", the \"American Mathematical Monthly\", and many other journals. He was also known for his work in high-level mathematics competitions, such as the USA Mathematical Olympiad, the International Mathematical Olympiad, and the Putnam Competition. \nIn 1988 the Mathematical Association of America gave him its Award for Distinguished Service to Mathematics, its highest service award. In 1992, the World Federation of National Mathematics Competitions awarded Klamkin the David Hilbert Award for his contributions to mathematics competitions.\n\n"}
{"id": "21765092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21765092", "title": "Neighbourhood action group", "text": "Neighbourhood action group\n\nA Neighbourhood Action Group, or NAG, is a UK initiative, set up to deal with key issues identified by a community's first public consultation. The group is coordinated by the police.This may happen in the form of a public meeting, through surveys done face-to-face or by mail, or a combination of methods. \n\nNAGs are volunteer working groups made up of representatives from the community.They will include residents, the police, local authority and other organisations, such as local businesses and schools. Ideally NAGs represent a cross section of the society they represent, including representatives from groups such as neighbourhood watch schemes and local councils.\n\nThey are key to the success of neighbourhood policing as it is this group which will plan on behalf of the community and organise for tasks to be completed. In effect, they are the 'doers', accountable locally for responding to problems a community wants to tackle.\n\nThe NAG constitution suggests the following should be invited to join the NAG:\n\nEvery NAG has three priority profiles - priorities for the neighbourhood policing team to address, with the assistance of NAG members. These are reviewed annually and those outside of the NAG are invited to contribute.\n\n"}
{"id": "3175555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3175555", "title": "Objective structured clinical examination", "text": "Objective structured clinical examination\n\nAn objective structured clinical examination (OSCE) is a modern type of examination often used in health sciences (e.g. audiology, midwifery, occupational therapy, optometry, orthoptics, medicine, physician assistants/associates, physical therapy, radiography, athletic training, rehabilitation medicine, dietetics, nursing, pharmacy, dentistry, chiropractic, paramedicine, podiatry, veterinary medicine, athletic training). It is designed to test clinical skill performance and competence in skills such as communication, clinical examination, medical procedures / prescription, exercise prescription, joint mobilisation / manipulation techniques, radiographic positioning, radiographic image evaluation and interpretation of results. It is a hands-on, real-world approach to learning that keeps examinees engaged, allows them to understand the key factors that drive the medical decision-making process, and challenges the professional to be innovative and reveals their errors in case-handling and provides an open space for improved decision-making, based on evidence-based practice for real-world responsibilities.\n\nAn OSCE usually comprises a circuit of short (the usual is 5–10 minutes although some use up to 15 minute) stations, in which each candidate is examined on a one-to-one basis with one or two impartial examiner(s) and either real or simulated (actors or electronic patient simulators) patients. Each station has a different examiner, as opposed to the traditional method of clinical examinations where a candidate would be assigned to an examiner for the entire examination. Candidates rotate through the stations, completing all the stations on their circuit. In this way, all candidates take the same stations. It is considered to be an improvement over traditional examination methods because the stations can be standardised enabling fairer peer comparison and complex procedures can be assessed without endangering patients health.\n\nAs the name suggests, an OSCE is designed to be \"objective\" – all candidates are assessed using exactly the same stations (although if real patients are used, their signs may vary slightly) with the same marking scheme. In an OSCE, candidates get marks for each step on the mark scheme that they perform correctly, which therefore makes the assessment of clinical skills more objective, rather than subjective, \"structured\" – stations in OSCEs have a very specific task. Where simulated patients are used, detailed scripts are provided to ensure that the information that they give is the same to all candidates, including the emotions that the patient should use during the consultation. Instructions are carefully written to ensure that the candidate is given a very specific task to complete. The OSCE is carefully structured to include parts from all elements of the curriculum as well as a wide range of skills. \"A clinical examination\" - the OSCE is designed to apply clinical and theoretical knowledge. Where theoretical knowledge is required, for example, answering questions from the examiner at the end of the station, then the questions are standardized and the candidate is only asked questions that are on the mark sheet and if the candidate is asked any others then there will be no marks for them.\n\nMarking in OSCEs is done by the examiner. Occasionally written stations, for example, writing a prescription chart, are used and these are marked like written examinations, again usually using a standardized mark sheet. One of the ways an OSCE is made objective is by having a detailed mark scheme and standard set of questions. For example, a station concerning the demonstration to a simulated patient on how to use a metered dose inhaler [MDI] would award points for specific actions which are performed safely and accurately. The examiner can often vary the marks depending on how well the candidate performed the step. At the end of the mark sheet, the examiner often has a small number of marks that they can use to weight the station depending on performance and if a simulated patient is used, then they are often asked to add marks depending on the candidates approach. At the end, the examiner is often asked to give a \"global score\". This is usually used as a subjective score based on the candidates overall performance, not taking into account how many marks the candidate scored. The examiner is usually asked to rate the candidate as pass/borderline/fail or sometimes as excellent/good/pass/borderline/fail. This is then used to determine the individual pass mark for the station.\n\nMany centres allocate each station an individual pass mark. The sum of the pass marks of all the stations determines the overall pass mark for the OSCE. Many centres also impose a minimum number of stations required to pass which ensures that a consistently poor performance is not compensated by a good performance on a small number of stations.\n\nThere are, however, criticisms that the OSCE stations can never be truly standardized and objective in the same way as a written exam. It has been known for different patients / actors to afford more assistance, and for different marking criteria to be applied. Finally, it is not uncommon at certain institutions for members of teaching staff be known to students (and vice versa) as the examiner. This familiarity does not necessarily affect the integrity of the examination process, although there is a deviation from anonymous marking. However, in OSCEs that use several circuits of the same stations the marking is repeatedly shown to be very consistent which supports the validity that the OSCE is a fair clinical examination. There are arguments for and against quarantining OSCE examinees to prevent sharing of exam information. Although the data tend to show no improvement in the overall scores in a later OSCE session, the research methodology is flawed and validity of the claim is questionable. A study suggested that marks do not give a sound inference of student collusion in an OSCE.\n\nPreparing for OSCEs is very different from preparing for an examination on theory. In an OSCE, clinical skills are tested rather than pure theoretical knowledge. It is essential to learn correct clinical methods, and then practice repeatedly until one perfects the methods whilst simultaneously developing an understanding of the underlying theory behind the methods used. Marks are awarded for each step in the method; hence, it is essential to dissect the method into its individual steps, learn the steps, and then learn to perform the steps in a sequence.\n\nMost universities have clinical skills labs where students have the opportunity to practice clinical skills such as taking blood or mobilizing patients in a safe and controlled environment. It is often very helpful to practise in small groups with colleagues, setting a typical OSCE scenario and timing it with one person role playing a patient, one person doing the task and if possible, one person either observing and commenting on technique or even role playing the examiner using a sample mark sheet. Many OSCE textbooks have sample OSCE stations and mark sheets that can be helpful when studying in the manner. In doing this the candidate is able to get a feel of running to time and working under pressure.\n\nIn many OSCEs the stations are extended using data interpretation. For example, the candidate may have to take a brief history of chest pain and then interpret an electrocardiogram. It is also common to be asked for a differential diagnosis, to suggest which medical investigations the candidate would like to do or to suggest a management plan for the patient.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "703297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=703297", "title": "OpenTTD", "text": "OpenTTD\n\nOpenTTD is a business simulation game in which players try to earn money via transporting passengers and freight by road, rail, water and air. It is an open-source remake and expansion of the 1995 Chris Sawyer video game \"Transport Tycoon Deluxe\".\n\n\"OpenTTD\" duplicates most features of \"Transport Tycoon Deluxe\" and has many additions, including a range of map sizes, support for many languages, custom (user-made) artificial intelligence (AI), downloadable customisations, ports for several widely used operating systems, and a more user-friendly interface. \"OpenTTD\" also supports local area network (LAN) and Internet multiplayer, co-operative and competitive, for up to 255 players.\n\n\"OpenTTD\" is free and open-source software licensed under the GNU General Public License version 2.0 and is under ongoing development. According to a study of the 61,154 open-source projects on SourceForge in the period between 1999 and 2005, \"OpenTTD\" ranked 8th most active open-source project to receive patches and contributions. In 2003 or 2004, development moved to their own server.\nSince 2018, the project uses GitHub for its source repository and bug tracker.\n\nThe development of \"OpenTTD\" was driven by the desire to extend the abilities of \"Transport Tycoon Deluxe\" to support user-made additions to the graphics and gameplay. Also, users wanted to play the game on more modern operating systems and alternative computer architectures which \"Transport Tycoon Deluxe\" did not support, being released in 1994 for DOS and programmed in assembly language.\n\nThere was a prior attempt to modify Transport Tycoon Deluxe to run on more modern operating systems. \"OpenTTD\" was preceded by a commercial conversion of \"Transport Tycoon Deluxe\" to run on Windows 95. It was created in 1996 by the FISH technology group, but Nola released in 1999 as part of a compilation of older \"Tycoon\" games. This release was still greatly restricted in operating systems and computer architectures it could run on. Similarly, there was an earlier success aiming to open \"Transport Tycoon Deluxe\" to modification by users. \"TTDPatch\", initially created by Josef Drexler in 1996–97 and still being developed in 2010, changes the behaviour of \"Transport Tycoon Deluxe\" as it is running, to introduce many new features to the game, such as new graphics, vehicles, industries, etc. \"TTDPatch\" is restricted by the same operating system and computer architecture limits as \"Transport Tycoon Deluxe\" and has limited control over what features of the game can be altered.\n\nIn 2003, Ludvig Strigeus announced that he intended to reverse engineer \"Transport Tycoon Deluxe\" and convert the game to C. In 2004, this re-engineered \"Transport Tycoon Deluxe\" was released and named \"OpenTTD\". This release was popular. , \"OpenTTD\" is still under active development.\n\nThe early development of \"OpenTTD\" focused on restructuring the code to improve readability and extensibility. This allowed restoring features like sound and music, improving the user interface and introducing new languages for the GUI. Many new gameplay features and possibilities for user modification were also added around this time, aiming to replicate the abilities of TTDPatch. A major improvement was reprogramming multiplayer (network games) to use the internet protocol, allowing multiplayer gaming online and over modern LANs.\n\nBy the late 2000s, \"OpenTTD\" was a stable and popular game and development moved toward more substantial changes. 2007 saw the development of support for custom, user-made AIs, which can provide players with more of a challenge than the original AI. Other more major changes included introducing support for IPv6, an integrated download system for user-made customisations, and support for alternative base graphics, sound and music sets in 2009. Since 2007, \"OpenTTD\" is gradually being rewritten in C++.\n\nUp until 2010, \"OpenTTD\" relied on the graphics, sound and music files from \"Transport Tycoon Deluxe\". While \"OpenTTD\" was free software, it needed copyrighted components of a commercial game to work. Starting at the end of 2007, a large community effort worked to generate replacements for the 7000 2D sprites which make up the graphics of the game. Similar community efforts to create free sound effects and music soon followed. When the graphics and sound effect replacement projects (\"OpenGFX\" and \"OpenSFX\", respectively) reached completion at the end of 2009, it was possible, for the first time, to play \"OpenTTD\" completely independently of \"Transport Tycoon Deluxe\".\nA music replacement set \"OpenMSX\" is also available. This was celebrated in early 2010 with the release of \"OpenTTD\" 1.0.0, named to reflect its new status as a fully stand-alone game.\n\nReleased on April 1, 2011, OpenTTD 1.1.0 saw the re-introduction of Mac OS platform support. The 1.1.x series also saw extensions of the NewGRF and NewObject specifications, improvement of GUI loading times and pathfinding, and the introduction of a new command-line administrative interface that can be accessed over a network for remote servers. \nReleased on April 15, 2012, OpenTTD 1.2.0 formally integrated graphics support for 32 bpp, and 2x and 4x zoom levels. These two features allow graphics developers to include graphics that feature higher resolutions and more details. For the first time the game can randomly create rivers automatically on map generation. The introduction of the Game Script feature allows developers to create scripted scenarios, new interactive goals, and achievements within games. Two new features alter the way the game can be played. Infrastructure Maintenance adds a new ongoing costs to owning infrastructure such as roads, rails, and signals. Airport Range implements a limit on how far aircraft can travel before needing to land at another airport facility. In-game documentation for NewGRFs was introduced, allowing developers to provide more information about NewGRF add-ons, including Internet links to external Web sites or other documentation. \nReleased on April 1, 2013, OpenTTD 1.3.0 focused on improving the user interface, including GUI and textboxes. Formerly undocumented features which were unsupported were removed in later releases of the 1.3.x series, and support for new currencies and translations was introduced. \nReleased on April 1, 2014, OpenTTD 1.4.0 saw a significant change in how the game can be played with the formal inclusion of the Cargo Distribution (CargoDist) patch. In the original Transport Tycoon Deluxe and prior versions of OpenTTD, passengers, mail and other cargo were not assigned a destination, and hence could be sent to any destination desired by players (effectively being unloaded at the next station accepting them). With the introduction of CargoDist, cargo are assigned a destination by the game when created, and will transfer as necessary to arrive at their destination. The game also regularly checks for new destinations that players have constructed, allowing cargo to be assigned to new destinations if available. Further improvements to the NoGo and NewObject specifications were included. Users can now create map sizes of up to 4096x4096. Players are now also able to load more NewGRF and NewObject sets, with an increase of up to 255 NewGRF or NewObject sets, and 64,000 different objects with nearly 16 million instances of objects. Later improvements of the 1.4.x series include optimization for building on more obscure operating systems.\nReleased on April 1, 2015, OpenTTD 1.5.0 focused on improving the user interface and introduced more height levels. New features for NewGRF and NoGoal were also implemented.\nReleased on April 1, 2016, OpenTTD 1.6.0 focused mainly on aesthetics by introducing a new, redesigned land generator which gave coastlines and hills a more curved, realistic terrain.\n\nReleased on April 1, 2017, OpenTTD 1.7.0 includes NewGRF API extensions, and many bug fixes, including the extension of the DCxx range to D800-DFFF, et cetera.\n\nReleased April 1, 2018.\n\n\"OpenTTD\" gameplay is very similar to \"Transport Tycoon Deluxe\", on which it is based, although there are many improvements in both options within the game and ease of use. \nA player's aim is to build a transportation network using trucks, buses, trains, airplanes and boats to link together industries and towns on the map and transport the cargo they produce. Every time a vehicle makes a delivery of some cargo, players receive an income, allowing them to build more infrastructure (rails, stations, etc.), build more vehicles, modify the terrain, and interact with towns, via their local authorities. The default game runs from 1950 to 2050, during which a player aims to get as high a performance rating (based on number of vehicles, income, amount of cargo delivered, etc.) as possible.\n\nThe world map is dotted with both industries and towns. Cargo for transportation is supplied by both industries (e.g. the coal mine which produces coal) and towns (which produce passengers and mail) and accepted by other industries and/or towns according to their needs (e.g., the power station accepts coal). Placing a station near a source and a receiver of a certain cargo allows transportation between the two. The amount of cargo supplied by a town or industry depends on the quality of transport players provide to move its goods. Payment for delivering cargo depends on the quantity of cargo delivered, how fast it was delivered and how perishable it is. Some cargoes (e.g., passengers) must be delivered faster than others (e.g., coal) to earn a good income.\nDuring the course of the game, players must build and expand their transport infrastructure. The only infrastructure present on the map at the start of the game are roads within towns. All other infrastructure—ports, stations, airports, rail, and depots—must be built by players. The tools for building a rail network are particularly powerful, and players have access to many different signal types to build a complex and interconnected rail network.\n\nDuring the course of the game, technology improvements give players access to newer, faster and more powerful vehicles. For rail transport, new track technology also becomes available over time, first electrified rail, then monorail and maglev track. In general, newer vehicles cost more money to buy and run, and players must have earned enough money in earlier stages of the game to be able to afford to upgrade their vehicles. The full course of the default game, from 1950 to 2050, takes around 24 hours. Players can optionally start at earlier dates and play on past 2050, although no new technology becomes available.\n\n\"OpenTTD\" can be played by one player, against a computer controlled AI, or by many players against each other, over a LAN or the Internet.\n\n\"OpenTTD\" supports multiplayer games for up to 255 players between 15 different transport companies, and can be played both over a LAN or over the Internet. Each transport company is in competition with each other transport company, and each transport company can be controlled by more than one player at any time. This allows both co-operative and competitive multiplayer games. Competitive team games (e.g. two transport companies, both controlled by three players) are also possible.\n\n\"OpenTTD\" supports extensive modification for both single player and multiplayer games. Modifications come in the form of a \"NewGRF\" (New Graphics Resource File). NewGRFs package both new graphics (2D sprites) and the computer code which describes how the new graphics should be used. Many aspects of the game can be altered by NewGRFs; a NewGRF can introduce a complete new set of vehicles, new industries and the cargoes they produce, new town buildings, new rail graphics and behaviour, etc. NewGRFs, along with heightmaps, scenarios and custom AIs, can be downloaded and installed using the \"BaNaNaS\" in-game online content system.\n\nDue to its use of Simple DirectMedia Layer cross-platform graphics and sound layers, \"OpenTTD\" can be compiled and run on many different operating systems. The officially supported operating systems are the 32/64-bit variants of: BSDs (FreeBSD, NetBSD, OpenBSD), Linux, Microsoft Windows (95/98/ME/2000/XP/Vista/7/8, and later), Solaris, and macOS.\n\nUnofficially supported devices include: Android phones, the Nintendo DS, Wii, and PlayStation Portable.\nThe game could even be played on virtual desktops, like Spoon.net.\n\nOpenTTD has been praised for the amount of improvements it has made to the original Transport Tycoon Deluxe, such as the AI, graphics, sounds, and ability to play multiplayer.\nOpenTTD received the most votes for Game of the Year for the 2004 Amiga Games Award.\nLewis Denby from PC Gamer ranked OpenTTD 20th in its May 2011 list of best free PC games.\nHungarian Unix Portal users chose \"OpenTTD\" as favourite (free) game in 2005, 2007, 2009, and 2010. In 2014 \"OpenTTD\" was named by PCGamer among the \"Ten top fan remade classics you can play for free right now\".\nIn 2015 and 2016, Rock, Paper, Shotgun ranked \"OpenTTD\" 8th on its The 50 Best Free Games on PC list.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6299665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6299665", "title": "Pakistan Educational Research Network", "text": "Pakistan Educational Research Network\n\nThe Pakistan Education and Research Network (PERN) connects universities and research institutes through high-speed Internet bandwidth. The main purpose of this network is to facilitate researchers/students in sharing data and to coordinate with each other though video conferencing.\nCurrently 56(Pakistani) educational institutes are interconnected; in the future the PERN-II project would further include 59 other educational institutes national-wide at speeds of up to 10 Gbps.\n\nNotes\n\n\n\nPartners links:\n"}
{"id": "40431181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40431181", "title": "Pierre Frédéric Malevergne", "text": "Pierre Frédéric Malevergne\n\nPierre-Frederic Malevergne or Pierre-Frederic Malavergne and Pierre-Frederic Malovergne (1810, France — 1872, Russian Empire) was a French dancer who worked in Russia.\n\nAll English-speaking and French-speaking sources call him Malevergne; all Russian-speaking sources call him Malavergne () or Malovergne (), .\n\nThe birth name of the dancer name is unknown, he himself preferred to be called by alias \"Monsieur Frédéric\" or \"Frédéric\" (ru: Фредерик).\n\nOf his youth nothing is known.\n\nMonsieur Frédéric received an invitation from the Russian Imperial troupe and arrived to Saint Petersburg in 1831.\n\nIn these years, Russia has laid the base of culture and arts and invited European experts to aid in this, not skimping on the fees and salaries to Europeans. European specialists have not received compensation in Europe and gladfully visited Russia for big money. Russia's policy was justified, and in the middle of the 19th century Russia already had its own Russian culture, a part of the pan-European culture.\n\nSince the tranvel, Monsieur Frédéric’s whole life was in Russia. He was working in Russia for 42 years.\n\nMonsieur Frédéric became a solo performer of many parties in ballets of choreographers Charles Didelot, Alexis-Scipion Blache, Antoine Titus, Marius Petipa.\n\nHe also became a choreographer. His greatest work was \"Paquita\" together with Marius Petipa in 1847, St. Petersburg (Bolshoi Kamenny Theatre) and 1848, Moscow (Bolshoi Theatre) with Yelena Andreyanova in the main party. Another his well-known work is \"Le Corsaire\" en 1858, after Jules Perrot's chorégraphie, Moscow (Bolshoi Theatre) with Praskovya Lebedeva as Medora.\n\nMonsieur Frédéric became the teacher of dance. He taught for many years. Among his students were: Lev Ivanov, Timofei Stukolkin, Marfa Muravyova, Lubov Radina, Alexandra Kammerer etc.\n\nIn Russia there were two Imperial troupes: in Saint Petersburg and in Moscow, he worked in both, and eventually he was transferred to Moscow. He died in 1872. Some sources attribute his death place to Moscow while other sources state that he died in Saint Petersburg.\n\nHis death was seen in Russia as a tragedy—everybody knew him, he had a great value for the Russian ballet. An historian of Russian ballet wrote (\"Our ballet: 1673-1899\"): \"The art of Choreography suffered a great loss in the face of the deceased in Moscow as a dance teacher in the school, old man Frederick Malovergne\" (ru: «Хореографическое искусство понесло большую потерю в лице скончавшегося в Москве учителя танцев в школе, старика Фредерика Маловерн»).\n"}
{"id": "27988516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27988516", "title": "Project method", "text": "Project method\n\nThe project method is a medium of instruction which was introduced during the 18th century into the schools of architecture and engineering in Europe when graduating students had to apply the skills and knowledge they had learned in the course of their studies to problems they had to solve as practicians of their trade, for example, designing a monument, building a steam engine. In the early 20th Century, William Heard Kilpatrick expanded the project method into a philosophy of education. His device is child-centred and based in progressive education. Both approaches are used by teachers worldwide to this day. Unlike traditional education, proponents of the project method attempt to allow the student to solve problems with as little teacher direction as possible. The teacher is seen more as a facilitator than a deliver of knowledge and information. \n\nStudents in a project method environment should be allowed to explore and experience their environment through their senses and, in a sense, direct their own learning by their individual interests. Very little is taught from textbooks and the emphasis is on experiential learning, rather than rote and memorization. A project method classroom focuses on democracy and collaboration to solve \"purposeful\" problems.\n\nKilpatrick devised four classes of projects for his method: construction (such as writing a play), enjoyment (such as experiencing a concert), problem (for instance, discussing a complex social problem like poverty), and specific learning (learning of skills such as swimming).\n\n"}
{"id": "25251679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25251679", "title": "Prueba de Selección Universitaria", "text": "Prueba de Selección Universitaria\n\nThe University Selection Test ( or PSU) is a standardized university admissions examination used in Chile since 2003. It replaced the Prueba de Aptitud Académica (PAA) which had been in use since 1966. The PSU consists of four sections: math, language, science and history. It's applied every year between the months of November and December. It's mandatory to take the Math and Language tests, and a elective one, having the option to take both elective tests, the maximum score is of 850 points, and the minimum of 150 points (Equal to not answering anything), It's mandatory to take it if the postulant would like to go to a University of the Rector's Council, commonly referred to as Traditional Universities.\n"}
{"id": "53457587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53457587", "title": "Richard Plunz", "text": "Richard Plunz\n\nRichard Plunz is an American architect, critic, and historian. He is Professor of Architecture at the Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation at Columbia University in the City of New York and the Founder and Director of the Urban Design Lab, a research unit of Columbia's Earth Institute, where he also serves as Professor.\n\nPlunz studied architecture at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, New York, where he earned B.S. in engineering, B.Arch, and M.Arch degrees. There, and at Pennsylvania State University, he researched urban history and development and began developing field techniques related to the anthropology of building and people's relationship to the built environment.\n\nHe has been at Columbia since 1973, and served as Chair of the Division of Architecture and Director of the post-professional Urban Design Program from 1992 to 2015. Plunz has also held visiting professor positions at the Catholic University of Leuven, in Flanders, and Polytechnic University of Turin, in Italy.\n\nPlunz has pursued research related to housing, urban history, anthropology, urban parametrics, and design. During the 1970s, he undertook anthropological field research in a serious of major studies using digitized environmental modeling to help understand the divergent urban contexts of Mantua, in West Philadelphia, the \"frazione\" of San Leucio in Southern Italy, and in the Adirondack High Peaks region in New York State.\n\nOther significant work includes a 40-year study in Turgutreis, Turkey, which documented the transformation of small villages into a modern city through the experiences of 15 families, and a Millennium Cities Initiative-developed strategic analysis of Accra, Ghana's Ga Mashie and Nima neighborhoods.\n\nHis \"A History of Housing in New York City\" tracks the city's housing developments from 1850 and was published in 1992, and republished in 2016 with new research and an introduction by urban historian Kenneth T. Jackson. Urban planner Peter Marcuse wrote of the book in a 1992 review, “For its wealth of information and description, for its humane perspective, and for the illumination it provides on the role of architecture in the shaping of housing in New York City over the decades, this is a most valuable book.” \n\nPlunz received the Andrew J Thomas Award from the American Institute of Architects for his pioneering work in housing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10370512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10370512", "title": "Scholarly communication", "text": "Scholarly communication\n\nScholarly communication is the process by which academics, scholars, and researchers share and publish their research findings so that they are available to the wider academic community and beyond.\n\nScholarly communication can be defined as “the system through which research and other scholarly writings are created, evaluated for quality, disseminated to the scholarly community, and preserved for future use. The system includes both formal means of communication, such as publication in peer-reviewed journals, and informal channels, such as electronic listservs.” There are many issues with scholarly communications, which include author rights, the peer review process, the economics of scholarly resources, new models of publishing (including open access and institutional repositories), rights and access to federally funded research and preservation of intellectual assets.\n\nCommon methods of scholarly communication include writings in a scholarly journals, books, E-only journals, reviews, preprints and working papers, encyclopedias, dictionaries, and annotated content, data, blogs, discussion forums, professional and scholarly hubs and conference papers. Other forms, particularly in the arts and humanities include multimedia formats such as sound and video recordings. At the outset, the goal of most e-journal editors was the education of those who subscribed to their publication. Through this medium, users had an incentive to access the Internet and to become familiar with navigating the Web. The editors’ goals were similar to those of the library. Both wanted to provide access to journals, in order to help readers and patrons gain the knowledge to conduct further online research independently. Over time the role of the e-journal has transformed from an innovative education tool, to the primary means for delivery of scholarly content.\n\nThe term \"scholarly communications\" has been in common usage at least since the mid-1970s, in recent years there has been widespread belief that the traditional system for disseminating scholarship has reached a state of crisis (often referred to as the \"publishing crisis\" or \"serials crisis\")\n\nThe proliferation of new journals and the \"twigging\" of established journals into smaller sub-specialities, combined with rising prices, especially in the sciences, have dramatically reduced the capacity of research libraries to purchase resources required by their scholarly communities. All disciplines and formats are affected, the humanities and social sciences as well as the sciences, books as well as journals. The proliferation of electronic journals and the various pricing models for this information has further complicated the acquisitions issue, both for libraries and for publishers.\n\nMany groups, including library consortia, research funders, academics and universities have been calling for changes to the ways scholarly communication takes place, particularly in light of the Internet creating new and low cost methods to disseminate research, while still maintaining a 'peer review' process to ensure that the quality of research is maintained. To advance research in this area and to produce sustainable publication tools, the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation has funded a cohort of projects based on university campuses and at academic presses \"to change scholarly practice in ways that advance teaching, research, preservation, and publication.\" Recent technological developments, such as open access and institutional repositories at universities are seen as vehicles for changing or improving the scholarly communication process.\n\nChief among the factors contributing to the perceived crisis is the academic reward system, which emphasizes quantity of publication. There is a consequent demand by scholars for peer-reviewed publication outlets. Another important cause is the commercialization and internationalization of scholarly publishing. The growing dominance of publishing conglomerates in scientific, technical, and medical fields, and to some degree in the social sciences, is of special concern to information professionals. Scholars, often indifferent to rights issues, transfer copyright to for-profit publishers, frequently for reports of research funded wholly or partially at public expense. Commercial publishers have established a highly profitable niche for themselves in the scholarly communication chain.\n\nScholarly communication is seen as a crucial part of research, and researchers - many of whom are lecturers and academics at universities - are often judged by their academic output and list of publications. Promotions will normally take into account the number of publications and how prestigious the journals they were published in (e.g. \"Nature\" and \"The Lancet\" are seen as very prestigious journals within the sciences). A researcher's publication list will help them create a positive reputation within their discipline. The proliferation of open access journals has facilitated this process by providing a means for scholars to publish their research regardless of perceived importance, as is the case with traditional journals. Publications such as PLOS ONE and Scientific Reports follow an author pay model, where the peer review and publishing service are provided for a one time cost to the writer. The material is then made available at no cost to others, who can then build on this research without limitation. This approach results in the acceptance and publishing of a greater percentage of submissions across a broader subject area.\n\nLibraries and librarians play a critical role in the aggregation, evaluation and dissemination of scholarly communication. The Scholarly Communication Toolkit was designed by the Research and Scholarly Environment Committee of the Association of College and Research Libraries (ACRL) to support advocacy efforts designed to transform the scholarly communication landscape.\n\nThe future of research libraries will be shaped by broader developments at research universities in the areas of creating, sharing, disseminating, and curating knowledge. Universities face fundamental policy choices in all of the areas that have been recast by developments in information technology. Current trends in digital scholarship practices across the humanities, science, and social science have significant implications for research libraries in academic institutions as a means of framing policy choices. \n\nMany research libraries have formalized the role of Scholarly Communications Librarian and defined specific responsibilities, including the implementation of outreach programs to increase awareness relative to copyright (particularly section 108 of the US Copyright Act), open access, and other scholarly communication issues. Through these types of programs, librarians have established their role relative to the structure of the library organization by formalizing the discussion of these issues in research and e-learning activities. They also contribute in teaching copyright literacy by being active in all stages of the research process.\n\nOther resources: The Scholarly Publishing and Academic Resources Coalition, Library Publishing Coalition\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe modern research author requires a reliable and standardized method to make research data available to other members of their community. This need has resulted in the development of a new form of scholarly communication known as data publishing. The process involves making data accessible, reusable and citable for long term use and is more elaborate than simply providing access to a data file. Data is becoming an important element of scholarship as a sharable source to be reused and shared. The same data can be accessed by multiple researchers to ask new questions or to replicate research for verification and augmentation. Categories of data differ among disciplines, as does its accessibility. Many publications have begun to offer incentives to scholarly researchers to publish their data and have developed the necessary infrastructure in support of e-research. Technical, policy, and institutional factors are becoming more established. The next phase will see the integration of the process into a standardized data publishing methodology.\n\nThere are several types of data that researchers must to protect when collecting, handling, storing and sharing data to safeguard the confidentiality of contributors. There are three primary types of information. Personally identifiable information includes any data that allows the identity of an individual to whom the information applies to be realistically deduced by either direct or indirect means. Protected health information includes individually identifiable health information transmitted or maintained in any form or medium by a covered entity. Other sensitive information that should be protected include data that if it were disclosed would have a significant likelihood to cause psychological, social, emotional, physical, or reputation harm. A common approach for data sharing that includes confidential material is through de-identification or anonymization. There are numerous techniques for the de-identification of data including simply removing specific variables or by using statistical techniques such as top-coding, collapsing or combining, sampling, swapping, or disturbing the data. For qualitative data, redaction can be used to hide data elements that cannot be made public. However, it is important that future research requirements be taken into consideration when developing a de-identification or anonymization plan.\n\nA key element of the scholarly communication process is ensuring that research meets a level of quality and is of scholarly merit. This is normally done through a process of peer review, where other researchers in the same discipline review the research write up and decide if it is of sufficient quality. For example, in the case of a journal article, the author(s) of a piece of research will submit their article to a journal, it will then be sent to a number of other academics who specialize in the same area to be peer reviewed. The journal will often receive many more articles than there is space to publish them, and it is in their interest to publish only those of the highest quality (which will over time increase the reputation of the journal). If the reviewers feel the article is of a high enough quality for the journal, they will often request some changes to be made and once these are done, accept the article for publication.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18243505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18243505", "title": "School Psychological Examiner", "text": "School Psychological Examiner\n\nIn the United States education system, School Psychological Examiners assess the needs of students in schools for special education services or other interventions. The post requires a relevant postgraduate qualification and specialist training. This role is distinct within school psychology from that of the psychiatrist, clinical psychologist and psychometrist.\nSchool Psychological Examiners are assessors licensed by a State Department of Education to work with students from pre-kindergarten to twelfth grade in public schools, interviewing, observing, and administering and interpreting standardized testing instruments that measure cognitive and academic abilities, or describe behavior, personality characteristics, attitude or aptitude, in order to determine eligibility for special education services, placement, or conduct re-evaluation, or occupational guidance and planning. \n\nThe work of the School Psychological Examiners is both qualitative and quantitative in nature. They prepare psychoeducational evaluation reports based on test results and interpretation. Integrated with case history, the evaluation reports should present an accurate and clear profile of a student’s level of functioning or disability, strengths and weaknesses, compare test results with the standards of the evaluation instruments, analyze potential test biases, and develop appropriate recommendations to help direct educational interventions and services in a most inclusive and least restrictive environment. Evaluation reports are framed by laws and regulations applicable to testing and assessment in special education, and must follow school district policies and the codes of ethics applicable to education, special education, and psychological assessment.\n\nSchool Psychological Examiners also provide psychoeducational interventions such as consultation services, collaboration in behavior management planning and monitoring, and devising social skills training programs in public schools.\n\nUnless additionally trained and licensed, School Psychological Examiners do not offer or provide psychotherapy or clinical diagnostic/treatment services, which are attributions of licensed psychiatrists and clinical psychologists, as provided by law and professional regulations.\n\nSchool Psychological Examiners are highly trained and experienced educators who hold a master’s or higher degree in education or school counseling and at least one endorsement in special education. In addition to school district policies, School Psychological Examiners are bound by professional regulations, as well as by the ethical codes of testing and measurement. Other designations for School Psychological Examiners include ‘Educational Examiners’ or ‘Psychoeducational Examiners.’ Designation of this specialty varies among different school districts. \n\n'Psychometrist,’ from the term psychometrics, is an occupational designation not inclusive of the broader faculties of School Psychological Examiners. Psychometrists deal exclusively with quantitative test administration, do not require coursework beyond the bachelor's level, or licensure by a state department of education. Training of psychometrists is primarily done on-the-job, and their services are valuable in mental health community agencies, assessment and institutional research, or test-producing companies, etc., rather than in K-12 schools.\n\nTypical training includes coursework beyond the Master of Education, Master of Science in Education, or Master of Arts in Teaching degrees. Currently, School Psychological Examiners complete the courses required by their state department of education rather than by a prescribed self-contained program of studies. The coursework is equivalent to an entire Specialist or Doctoral Degree; unfortunately just a handful of institutions of higher education offer this kind of self-standing graduate program. Graduate courses of a psychological nature include:\n\n\nLicensure as School Psychological Examiner demands experience in a special education or school counseling setting, satisfactory completion of the required graduate coursework and practicum, plus a passing score on the 'Praxis II Special Education: Knowledge-Based Core Principles'. Graduate school recommendation and verification of experience by the employing school district complete the requirements. In addition to the practicum, on-the-job mentoring supervision for at least two school years, sometimes four years, allows the transition from initial licensure to standard professional licensure. An annual professional development plan and ongoing performance-based evaluation ensure 'High Quality' professionalism as required by the No Child Left Behind law and related regulations.\n\nAdditionally, high quality School Psychological Examiners exhibit proficiency-level knowledge on: \n\nEvaluation standards provide guidelines for designing, implementing, assessing, and reporting the psychoeducational evaluation reported by school psychological examiners. The evaluation is informed by professional codes of ethics.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19175450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19175450", "title": "Seamester", "text": "Seamester\n\nSea|mester Global Programs is an organization which offers academic, study abroad programs on board two sailing vessels, \"Ocean Star\" and \"Argo\". Sea|mester began running programs in 1998 as an extension from its sister organization ActionQuest. A full semester's course load is offered on board including classes in Oceanography, Marine Biology, Professional Skipper Certification Training, Leadership, Basic Seamanship, and an Independent Research Project. Courses are accredited through the University of South Florida (USF).\n\nSea|mester is an institution dedicated to the facilitation and development of practical watermanship skills and defining of academic interests in ocean and earth science, while offering college credit and promoting personal growth, teamwork and leadership through a distinctive, experiential educational program based upon active participation and individual support.\n\nSea|mester ran its first program in 1998 aboard two Beneteau monohulls. In 1999, Sea|mester acquired the schooner \"Ocean Star\" and began running 80-day programs with high school graduates and college students.\n\n\"Ocean Star\" sails throughout the Caribbean, from Tortola to Grenada. Occasionally, \"Ocean Star\" sails with another monohull or catamaran, allowing berths for over 25 students.\n\nThe steady growth of Sea|mester with \"Ocean Star\" allowed for the expansion of its fleet with the design and construction of the schooner \"S/Y Argo\". \"Argo\" was built in Samut Prakan, Thailand and completed in June 2006. Since then, \"Argo\" has been making her way around the globe with students. She had completed her first circumnavigation of the globe in December 2008 and was hoping to start her second during the spring of 2009.Unfortunately, the vessel was unable to secure an escort from the US Navy or EU coalition through the pirate-infested waters of the Gulf of Aden and had to head back to Asia to wait out the Monsoon season in order to sail south to Cape Town. Argo has completed her second circumnavigation via Cape Town.\n\"S/Y Argo\" is a two-masted Marconi rigged schooner designed to cross oceans with up to 26 students on board and 7 professional staff. \"Argo\" is certified and inspected by the British Maritime and Coastguard Agency as a Category “0” vessel, allowing her unrestricted operation in the world's oceans. She is registered in Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands, and has been circumnavigating the globe with students since her launch in 2006. She is currently a member vessel of the Tall Ships America Organization. The name of the vessel was inspired by the constellation Argo Navis. \n\n\"S/Y Ocean Star\" is a two-masted schooner originally built for Ocean Navigator Magazine as a sail training and promotional vessel. Ocean Star now conducts educational programs for Sea|mester Global Programs in the Caribbean Sea, and is a member vessel of the Tall Ships America Organization. The vessel is 88 feet (27 m) in overall length and accommodates sixteen trainees and four professional staff. \"Ocean Star\" is certified and inspected by the British Maritime and Coastguard Agency for ocean service. \"Ocean Star\" undergoes an annual refit in English Harbour, Antigua at Antigua Slipway Ltd.\n\nS/Y Vela is under construction by Marsun Shipyard in Thailand and will be a duplicate of S/Y Argo that had previously been commissioned by Seamester. \n\nSea Education Program of the Year Award from Tall Ships America 2011\n\n"}
{"id": "3493289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3493289", "title": "Sue Monk Kidd", "text": "Sue Monk Kidd\n\nSue Monk Kidd (born August 12, 1948) is a writer from Sylvester, Georgia, best known for her 2001 novel \"The Secret Life of Bees\".\n\nKidd was born in Sylvester, Georgia, and attended local schools. She graduated from Texas Christian University with a B.S. in nursing in 1970. She worked in her twenties as a Registered Nurse and college nursing instructor at the Medical College of Georgia.\n\nShe was influenced in her 20s by the writings of Thomas Merton to explore her inner life. In her 30s, she took writing courses at Emory University and Anderson College in South Carolina, now Anderson University, as well as studying at Sewanee, Bread Loaf, and other writers' conferences.\n\nShe got her start in writing when a personal essay she wrote for a writing class was published in \"Guideposts\" and reprinted in \"Reader's Digest\". She went on to become a Contributing Editor at \"Guideposts\".\n\nHer first three books were spiritual memoirs describing her experiences in contemplative Christianity, the last telling the story of her journey from traditional Christianity to feminist theology. \"God's Joyful Surprise: Finding Yourself Loved\" (Harper SanFrancisco, 1988) is focused on abandoning a hopeless quest for perfection and accepting one is loved as one is. \"When the Heart Waits: Spiritual Direction for Life's Sacred Questions\" (Harper SanFrancisco, 1990) tells of her painful midlife crisis. Finally, \"The Dance of the Dissident Daughter: A Woman's Journey from Christian Tradition to the Sacred Feminine\" (Harper SanFrancisco, 1996), discussed her encounter with women's spirituality.\n\nHer first novel, \"The Secret Life of Bees\" (2002), is set during the American civil rights movement of 1964, telling the story of a white girl who runs away from home to live with a woman who now works as an independent bee-keeper and honey-maker with many of her sisters. It has been adapted as a play in New York by The American Place Theater. The novel was also adapted as a movie of the same name by Fox Searchlight, starring Dakota Fanning, Queen Latifah, Jennifer Hudson, Alicia Keys and Sophie Okonedo.\n\nHer second novel, \"The Mermaid Chair\" (2005), won the 2005 Quill Award for General Fiction. The story concerns a woman who upon coming home to an island off the coast of South Carolina becomes attracted to a Benedictine monk who is just a few months short of taking his final vows. The title refers to a chair in his monastery carved with mermaids dedicated to a female saint said to be a mermaid before her conversion and who is patroness of the island. \nIt was adapted as a 2006 Lifetime movie of the same name.\n\nIn 2006, \"Firstlight\", a collection of Kidd's early writings, was published in hardcover by Guideposts Books; it was published in paperback by Penguin in 2007.\n\nAfter traveling with her daughter, Ann Kidd Taylor, to sacred sites in Greece, Turkey, and France, Kidd and Taylor co-authored a memoir, Traveling with Pomegranates: A Mother-Daughter Story. Published by Viking in 2009, it appeared on numerous bestseller lists, including the New York Times list and has been published in several languages.\n\nHer 2014 novel, \"The Invention of Wings\", is set during the antebellum years and based on the life of Sarah Grimké, a 19th-century abolitionist and women's rights pioneer. The novel debuted at No. 1 on \"The New York Times\" Best Seller list and was later selected for Oprah's Book Club 2.0. In April, Kidd appeared in an interview with Oprah on OWN's \"Super Soul Sunday\" episode.\n\nKidd is married to Sanford \"Sandy\" Kidd. The couple have two children, Bob and Ann. She has lived in Charleston and Mt. Pleasant, South Carolina, before Florida, her current residence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1827449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1827449", "title": "Teacher-librarian", "text": "Teacher-librarian\n\nA teacher-librarian (TL), school librarian, or school library media specialist (SLMS), is a certified librarian who also has training in teaching. According to the American Association of School Librarians (AASL), a division of the American Library Association (ALA), the official title for a certified librarian who works in a school in the United States is school librarian.\n\nThe school librarian performs four main leadership roles: teacher, instructional partner, information specialist, and program administrator. \n\nSchool librarians may read to children, assist them in selecting books, and assist with schoolwork. Some school librarians see classes on a \"flexible schedule\". A flexible schedule means that rather than having students come to the library for instruction at a fixed time every week, the classroom teacher schedules library time when the expertise of the school librarian, library and information skills, or materials are needed as part of a learning experience.\n\nIn the instructional partner role, school librarians collaborate with classroom teachers to create independent learners by fostering students' research, information literacy, technology, communication, and critical thinking skills. School librarians play a major role in infusing Information Literacy concepts and skills into secondary school curricula as well as enhances implementation of Information Literacy knowledge practices and dispositions into the secondary school education system. \n\nAs information specialists, school librarians develop a resource base for the school by using the curriculum and student interests to identify and obtain library materials, organize and maintain the library collection in order to promote independent reading and lifelong learning. Materials in the library collection can be located using an Online Public Access Catalog (OPAC)\n\nThis role also encompasses many activities relating to technology including the integration of resources in a variety of formats: periodical databases; Web sites; digital video segments; podcasts; blog and wiki content; digital images; virtual classrooms, etc. School librarians are often responsible for audio-visual equipment and are sometimes in charge of school computers and computer networks. \n\nAs program administrators, school librarians define, lead, and manage school library media programs by establishing library policies; overseeing the library budget; planning the physical and virtual library space; and maintaining a welcoming, positive, and innovative learning atmosphere. Librarians also maintain the collection by adding items to enhance curriculum and entice readers in order to have a good relationships with the patrons, both teachers and students. Many times, librarians are also responsible for repairing damaged books and periodicals .\n\nIn the United States, a teacher-librarian must have a baccalaureate degree and a certificate in secondary or elementary education, and must also complete a school library media program and gain a state certification. Programs in library science vary between institutions; however, state requirements must be met before a library media specialist is allowed to teach. Some school library media specialists hold the full Master of Library Science (MLS) or Master of Library and Information Science (MLIS) degree, while others do not. In many instances, school librarians who have an MLS degree but do not have the requisite teaching credentials must obtain these teaching credentials and classroom teaching experience first before they are permitted to work as teacher-librarians. Often additional library science graduate coursework is required, focused specifically on issues pertaining to school librarianship.\n\nTeacher-librarians rely on the support of local, state, national, and international professional organizations for career and professional development, employment opportunities, and awards/grants/funding. Groups like the International Association of School Librarianship; the American Association of School Librarians; the School Library Association in the United Kingdom and the Australian School Library Association host websites, publish journals, and sponsor conferences, workshops, and other events which showcase current research and practices in the field.\n\nIn the United States, teacher-librarians are also supported by state organizations which advocate for teachers at the district and school level. A comprehensive list is available from the ALA.\n\nIn December 2015, school library programs fell under the benefits for the Every Student Succeeds Act, a law that opens the use of federal funding for school library programs .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45594455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45594455", "title": "University Ranking by Academic Performance", "text": "University Ranking by Academic Performance\n\nThe University Ranking by Academic Performance, abbreviated as URAP, was developed in the Informatics Institute of Middle East Technical University. Since 2010, it has been publishing annual national and global college and university rankings for top 2000 institutions. The scientometrics measurement of URAP is based on data obtained from the Institute for Scientific Information via Web of Science and inCites. For global rankings, URAP employs indicators of research performance including the number of articles, citation, total documents, article impact total, citation impact total, and international collaboration. In addition to global rankings, URAP publishes regional rankings for universities in Turkey using additional indicators such as the number of students and faculty members obtained from Center of Measuring, Selection and Placement ÖSYM.\n\nURAP gathers data from international bibliometric databases such as Web of Science and InCites provided by the Institute for Scientific Information. URAP uses data of 2,500 Higher Education Institutions (HEI) with highest number of articles published. The overall score of each HEI is based on its performance over several indicators. Of 2500 selected HEIs, the top 2000 are included in the rankings published by URAP. Field based rankings are performed on 23 fields based on Australia ERA.\n\nURAP uses 6 main indicator to measure the academic performance. These indicators are number of articles, citation, total documents, article impact total, citation impact total, and international collaboration. The raw bibliometric data underlying URAP's 6 main indicators have highly skewed distribution. To address this issue, the median of the indicators have been used. The Delphi system was conducted with a group of experts to assign weighting scores to the indicators. Total score of 600 is distributed to indicators. URAP uses additional indicators for ranking universities in Turkey including the number of students and faculty members.\nThe following table shows the indicators used for global rankings in URAP as of 2014.\n\nNumber of articles is used as a measure of current scientific productivity which includes articles indexed by Web of Science. This indicator covers articles, reviews and notes. The weight of this indicator in the overall ranking is %21.\n\nCitation, as an indicator in URAP ranking, is a measure of research impact. It is scored according to the total number of citations received. The weight of this indicator in the overall ranking is %21.\n\nTotal documents is the measure of sustainability and continuity of scientific productivity. The total document count covers all scholarly literature provided by the Web of Science database, including conference papers, reviews, letters, discussions, scripts, and journal articles. The weight of this indicator in the overall ranking is %10.\n\nArticle Impact Total (AIT) is a measure of scientific productivity adjusted by the ratio of institution's Citation Per Publication (CPP) to the world CPP in 23 subject areas. The ratio of the institution's CPP and the world CPP indicates whether the institution is performing above or below the world average in that field. This ratio is multiplied by the number of publications in that field and then summed across the 23 fields, as shown in the following formula:\n\nformula_1\n\nThe weight of this indicator in the overall ranking is %18.\n\nCitation Impact Total (CIT) is a measure of research impact corrected by the institution's normalized CPP with respect to the world CPP in 23 subject areas. The ratio of the institution's CPP and the world CPP indicates whether the institution is performing above or below the world average in that field. This ratio is multiplied by the number of citations in that field and then summed across the 23 fields, as shown in the following formula:\n\nformula_2\n\nThe weight of this indicator in the overall ranking is %15.\n\nInternational Collaboration is a measure of global acceptance of the institution. International collaboration data, which is based on the total number of published studies conducted in collaboration with foreign universities, is obtained from InCites. The weight of this indicator in the overall ranking is %15.\n\n\n\n\n\nURAP covers considerably more institutions than other major ranking systems. In a section about URAP in “Where Are the Global Rankings Leading Us? An Analysis of Recent Methodological Changes and New Developments” published in the European Journal of Education it is mentioned that ”While it is less well-known than SRG, ARWU, THE, and QS, it is interesting because it published a list of 2000 universities, while the above rankings cover a maximum of 700 universities.” This is also mentioned in the “EUA report on Ranking for 2013 “ published by the European University Association. It indicates that URAP, along with SCImago ranking system, “fill an important gap in the rankings market in that their indicators measure the performance of substantially more universities, up to 2000 in the case of URAP and over 3000 in SCImago, compared to only 400 in THE, 500 in SRC ARWU, NTU ranking and CWTS Leiden, and around 700 in QS.”\n\nURAP is mentioned as one the four ranking systems that solely measure the academic performance. The other three are Performance Ranking of Scientific Papers for World Universities , CWTS Leiden Ranking, and SCImago Institutions Rankings. URAP excludes teaching indicators, such as student quality and teaching performance, from global rankings and only covers research-oriented indicators. In the “International Benchmarking in UK higher Education” report of the Higher Education Statistics Agency, URAP is listed among the benchmarking resources for measuring academic. In the same report, URAP is categorized in the “whole university rankings” along with Times Higher Education World University Rankings (THE), QS World University Rankings, Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU), CHE Excellence Rankings, RatER Global University Ranking of World Universities, Webometrics Ranking of World Universities, 2010 World University Ranking, SIR World Report, CWTS Leiden Ranking, U-Multirank, European Research Ranking, Performance Ranking of Scientific Papers for World Universities, Human Resources & Labor Review (HRLR), and Professional Classification of Higher Education Institutions.\n\nURAP is mentioned and used in several studies based on, or referring to, global rankings. In the “World University Ranking Systems: An Alternative Approach Using Partial Least Squares Path Modeling” article, published in the Journal of Higher Education Policy and Management, Urap is incorporated in the suggested model as one of the nine major worldwide university ranking systems along with ARWU, QS, Times, Webometrics, Taiwan. Leiden, SIR, and CWUR. In the same article, URAP is categorized among the ranking systems that are based solely on publication performance. The other ranking systems in the same category are Performance Ranking of Scientific Papers for World Universities , CWTS Leiden Ranking, and SCImago Institutions Rankings.\n\nThe following is a list of some of the books, peer reviewed articles, and conference proceedings that have covered URAP or have incorporated it in their models or comparisons.\n\n\n\nAnnual URAP ranking results are used by a number of listed universities to indicate their academic performance. The following is a short list of links to university pages that has mentioned URAP results either independently or in conjunction with other ranking results.\n\n\nThe indicators used in URAP are absolute values and size-dependent making it biased towards larger institutions. \nAccording to the “EUA report on Ranking for 2013“ published by the European University Association, URAP disregards books, excludes studies in arts and humanities areas, and under-represents social sciences. Furthermore, URAP does not employ any compensation for different publication cultures due to the lack of field-normalization of the results of bibliometric indicators. The report further states that “The results of the indicator on citation numbers in particular, as well as those on publication counts, are thus skewed towards the natural sciences and especially medicine.” It also states that excluding teaching indicators by URAP makes its focus solely on research-oriented institutions.\n\nThe “University Ranking Lists: A directory” report published by the Division for Analysis and Evaluation of the University of Gothenburg points out a problem that might arise from including more than 500 institutions in the ranking system. It states that “It [URAP] lists 2000 universities, and the purpose is to provide a ranking that covers not only institutions in the Western elite group. This purpose contrasts starkly with other ranking producers’ decisions not to publish more than the 400-500 top positions of their lists, since they do not consider their methods reliable below that level. [URAP] do not comment this problem.”\n\n\n"}
