{"id": "39681684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39681684", "title": "1916 VFA season", "text": "1916 VFA season\n\nThe 1916 Victorian Football Association season was not played owing to World War I, which was at its peak at the time.\n\nIn February, the Association met to determine whether or not to contest the premiership during the season, in light of the need to support the war effort in Europe. The Association had curtailed the 1915 season five weeks early for the same reason.\n\nAt its first meeting on 7 February, the clubs were divided in opinion: Brighton, , Brunswick and Northcote were in favour of playing the season; , , Essendon and Williamstown were opposed; and Port Melbourne and Prahran were undecided. However, at the second meeting on 25 February, all clubs decided unanimously not to contest the premiership in 1916.\n\nThe Association resolved that its clubs should continue to operate, and could play matches for patriotic fund-raising purposes during the season. Many Association players moved into the Victorian Junior Football Association, which had before the war been the first level of junior football below the Association.\n"}
{"id": "43306471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43306471", "title": "1964 Moscow protest", "text": "1964 Moscow protest\n\nOn 18 March 1964 approximately 50 Moroccan students broke into the embassy of Morocco in the Soviet Union in Moscow and staged an all‐day sit-in protesting against death sentences handed down by a Moroccan court in Rabat four days earlier. The death sentences concerned 11 people who allegedly attempted to assassinate Moroccan King Hassan II.\n\nSoviet authorities complied with the embassy's request to ignore extraterritoriality and remove the students by force, but later ignored the Moroccan ambassador's demand to punish the students.\n\nThe students forced their way into the embassy, which was then located on Moscow's Gorki Street (now Tverskaya Street), and occupied a wing of the building. The protesters carried placards demanding the immediate release of the convicted men. They said they would stay until 10 a.m. 19 March combining sit-in with a hunger strike.\n\nIn the evening five officials from the Soviet Ministry of Education tried to persuade the students to abandon the demands. To the chagrin of authorities in Morocco, the embassy eventually asked the Soviet government to ignore extraterritoriality and storm the building to remove the students by force. Soviet authorities complied with the request. However, later, when the Moroccan ambassador asked that the students lose their stipends and be expelled from the Soviet Union, the Soviet government quietly shifted all the stipends to public organizations’ accounts, and replied that it had no jurisdiction over these organizations’ scholarships.\n"}
{"id": "52703832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52703832", "title": "1979 Prague Skate", "text": "1979 Prague Skate\n\nThe 1979 Prague Skate was held in November 1979. Medals were awarded in the disciplines of men's singles, ladies' singles, pair skating, and ice dancing.\n"}
{"id": "4240792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4240792", "title": "1999 Summer Universiade", "text": "1999 Summer Universiade\n\nThe 1999 Summer Universiade, also known as the XX Summer Universiade, took place in Palma de Mallorca, Spain.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24271444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24271444", "title": "2009 Henan mine disaster", "text": "2009 Henan mine disaster\n\nThe 2009 Henan mine disaster took place on 8 September 2009 in Pingdingshan city, in Henan province in China.\n\nThe gas explosion took place around 1 a.m. Tuesday in the Xinhua No.4 pit in Xinhua District of Pingdingshan City. 93 men were working underground, of which 14 managed to escape to safety. Initial report said 35 were confirmed dead and 44 were missing. On 9 September, the death toll rose to 44, while 35 were still missing. \nOn 27 September, the total death toll was confirmed 67, while 9 people remained missing. Each family of the dead or missing workers was compensated 400,000 yuan.\n"}
{"id": "52905055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52905055", "title": "2017 Southern Thailand floods", "text": "2017 Southern Thailand floods\n\nThe 2017 Southern Thailand floods occurred from December 2016 throughout early months of 2017 and are the biggest floods in over 30 years in the southern part of the country during the regional annual monsoon season, which is distinct from other parts of the nation and mirrors that the Malay Peninsula. They have also caused damages in Kelantan and Terengganu states in Malaysia the weeks prior. The floods began in early January. Some 120 billion baht ($4 billion USD) in damages are foreseen as of mid-January, much of this due to lost production in agriculture tourism and infrastructure. Rubber supply is particularly impacted. The death toll have reached 91. Particularly hard hit are palm and rubber plantations.\n\n"}
{"id": "57279216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57279216", "title": "5th Indonesian Choice Awards", "text": "5th Indonesian Choice Awards\n\nThe 5th Indonesian Choice Awards ceremony (Official name: Indonesian Choice Awards 5.0 NET.), presented by the NET., honored the best entertainment of the year in 2018, and took place on April 29, 2018, at the Sentul International Convention Center in Bogor, West Java, at 7:00 p.m. WIB.\n\nThe awards ceremony aired live on NET. coinciding with the fifth anniversary celebration, entitled NET 5.0: Upgraded. The annual awards have presented by Sarah Sechan, Vincent Rompies and Desta (3rd time overall).\n\nIn addition to local musicians, NET. also featuring to international musician and artists, such as Craig David, Hailee Steinfeld, and Light Balance.\n\nVoting for 2018 Indonesian Choice Awards opened on March 30th, 2018 on Twitter for hashtag #ICA _5#<nominees_category>\n\n"}
{"id": "21624861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21624861", "title": "Andriy Slyusarchuk", "text": "Andriy Slyusarchuk\n\nAndriy Tykhonovych Slyusarchuk (, born 10 May 1971 in Zhytomyr) is a Ukrainian mnemonist who has claimed to be a general aviation pilot, a psychotherapist, a Doctor of Science in medicine, a psychiatrist, a psychologist and a neurosurgeon. He has performed brain surgery throughout Ukraine in state and municipal hospitals. Slyusarchuk was employed by the V. Chornovol Lviv State Institute of Modern Technology and Management, the Kyiv National University of Construction and Architecture, the P.L. Shupyk National Medical Academy of Postgraduate Education, the A. P. Romodanov Institute of Neurosurgery and Lviv Polytechnic as a professor, and by the government of Ukraine as an adviser to Oleksandr Turchynov.\n\nHe has claimed to have set several unverified world records memorizing data and figures (such as pi) while performing complex calculations mentally. Because of this, he is known as \"Doctor Pi\".\n\nSlyusarchuk defrauded two Ukrainian presidents: Viktor Yushchenko and Viktor Yanukovych. In the Verkhovna Rada (the Ukrainian Parliament), his activities were called \"the largest-scale fraud in Ukraine's 20 years of independence\". On 14 February 2014, the Sykhiv Raion Court sentenced Slyusarchuk to eight years in prison.\n\nSlyusarchuk's education began in an institutional school for intellectually-disabled infant orphans in the village of Hryshkivtsi (Berdychiv Raion of Zhytomyr Oblast). He was diagnosed with schizophrenia, oligophrenia, cerebral palsy, hepatitis and nephropathy. Slyusarchuk obtained a Doctor of Science degree and went into practice, performing neurosurgery, appearing on radio and television, granting interviews and publicly demonstrating his memorization of numbers. He met the Ukrainian president (who authorized him to establish the National Institute of the Brain), attended private clubs and meetings of Ukrainian \"nomenklatura\", befriended ministers and received a State Prize. Slyusarchuk forged documents, cheated the public at chess matches and memory demonstrations and practiced medicine without a license. He was interviewed by major newspapers, such as \"Trud\": As a teacher, as a psychiatrist, I can say \"pleno jure\" (with full right): today it is dependent children who are mostly taught in the universities of the country. All is about money, there is no natural scientific selection. And earlier, in the 1980s and 90s, you had to withstand intellectual contest. Today there is no necessity for it. Now a lot of mediocrities grind away at their studies. But with mother's and father's money, they manage to buy not only diplomas but also positions.\n\nSlyusarchuk was born in Zhytomyr, Ukraine on 10 May 1971. His 21-year-old mother, Natalia Tykhonovna Slyusarchuk of Zhytomyr, left her newborn son at a maternity home. She did not know the name of the father of her child, and Slyusarchuk's middle name was recorded on his birth certificate as \"Tykhonovych\" (the masculine version of Natalia Slyusarchuk’s patronymic).\n\nHe was hospitalized at the Zhytomyr psychiatric hospital eight times between 1974 and 1987. From 1980 to 1987 (second to eighth grade) Slyusarchuk lived and studied at an institutional school for young orphans in the town of Hryshkivtsi in Berdychiv Raion, receiving a certificate for the completion of his education there. Nearly all the documents pertaining to his education at the school were later destroyed; his birth date became 19 May 1974 on some documents, yielding negative results for official inquiries about his time at the school.\n\nFrom 1987 to 1989, Slyusarchuk studied in the 208th group at the inter-regional Higher Vocational School of Railway Transport in Kozyatyn, Vinnytsia Oblast to become a plasterer-tiler-facing worker.\nOn 2 October 1989, according to order No. 31, he was transferred to the Specialized Vocational School No. 62 in Chervonohrad, Lviv Oblast. According to teachers there, Slyusarchuk walked with a briefcase and a stethoscope like a doctor and conducted hypnosis sessions at a nearby school to earn money. On 1 June 1990, he received a certificate for the completion of his course; although his occupation was listed as \"assistant foreman”, he was not appointed to a job. In 1993 Slyusarchuk was turned down for a position as a neurosurgeon at the hospital in Novoyavorivsk (Lviv Oblast), and later practiced medicine elsewhere.\n\nOn 27 July 1996, the first criminal complaint was brought against Slyusarchuk. The Zhydachiv Raion police in Lviv Oblast) accused him of fraud, investigating the case for eight years. According to the complaint, Slyusarchuk diagnosed a woman with a fatal illness, promised to cure her with expensive drugs, took $665 from her and disappeared; it indicated that he had a diploma from the M. I. Pirogov Vinnytsia Medical Institute.\nIn 1999, he taught in the departments of Engineering and Pedagogical Training at Lviv Polytechnic for about six months. According to his colleagues at Lviv, Slyusarchuk lectured on the psychology of managing people. His lectures were popular, with students cutting classes to listen to him, and were also attended by other teachers.\n\nOn 17 July 2000, a second criminal complaint was brought against Slyusarchuk in Lviv. According to complainants Oleg and Bogdana Gamalii, they paid him $1,500 to treat their two young children; the children worsened following his treatment. After five years, the complaint was dropped.\n\nFrom 2003 to 2006 Slyusarchuk lived in a Lviv Polytechnic National University dormitory, where he fraudulently diagnosed students and \"treated\" them with psychotropic drugs. He extorted large amounts of money from parents for treatment, telling them that their children would commit suicide without it, and distributed unapproved drugs for $4,000 per ampoule.\n\nOn 28 February 2006, Slyusarchuk claimed to have set a record by memorizing the numbers which make up pi. Journalists from \"Ekspres\" and \"Moskovskij Komsomolets\" noted that at his public performances, he was attended by a nearby assistant with a computer (and, perhaps, a small earphone). In March 2006, Slyusarchuk began work as an associate professor at the Chornovil Lviv State Institute of Modern Technology and Management and became a professor in the general-law department that year. At the end of October 2008 the media reported that he had applied for emigration to Canada, where he could undertake studies impossible to obtain in Ukraine.\n\nFrom June 2008 to February 2010, Slyusarchuk was a professor of neurosurgery at the P.L. Shupyk National Medical Academy of Postgraduate Education. According to department head Mykola Polishchuk, when Slyusarchuk read several pages from a medical book given him by Polishchuk and recited them from memory he was hired. Slyusarchuk lectured on the subject of memory, and Polishchuk said that colleagues had found Slyusarchuk's 2002 dissertation on the Internet. Polishchuk later found a 2000 dissertation by Nikolai Ershov in the Russian State Library in Moscow; the only difference between Ershov's dissertation and Slyusarchuk's was in the title. After Polishchuk's report to the rector, an order to dismiss Slyusarchuk was issued. When the academic administration requested verification from the Higher Attestation Commission of the Ministry of Education of Russia of Slyusarchuk's credentials, it was told that there was no record of him as a professor or a Doctor of Science. He was a professor in the Department of Information Systems and Networks at Lviv Polytechnic from September 2009 to June 2011.\n\nFrom 9 December 2009 to 11 March 2010, Slyusarchuk was an adviser to Oleksandr Turchynov in the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers. With journalist Igor Yurchenko, he anchored the program \"Mind Games\" on Radio Era from 2009 to 2011.\n\nOn 22 December 2009, Slyusarchuk discussed an Institute of the Brain with Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko; Yushchenko issued a decree establishing it that day. On 26 December the \"Mirror Weekly\" reported in an interview with Slyusarchuk that he had been offered the position of head of the institute and hoped to implement his plans. He said in another interview that the institute's annual budget would be ₴500 million.\n\nIn 2010 the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, headed by Dmytro Tabachnyk, reportedly gave Slyusarchuk a document making him a professor in the department of neurosurgery at the A. P. Romodanov Institute of Neurosurgery. The Higher Attestation Commission of Ukraine refused to recognize the professorship, nullifying a professorship allegedly given him in Russia, and the Russian professorship proved false. In 2010 Slyusarchuk practiced disaster medicine, performed surgery throughout Ukraine and conducted behavioral experiments on rats in his one-room apartment with his assistant Chervoniy, a neuromagnetic stimulator and other devices. A newspaper article about the devices called them part of a prototypical psychotropic weapon.\n\nOn 25 May 2011, Dmytro Pavlychko, Levko Lukyanenko, Yuri Palchukovsky and Volodymyr Pylypchuk appealed to President Viktor Yanukovych to establish the Institute of the Brain and invite Slyusarchuk to head it because he was threatening to leave Ukraine for intellectual reasons. According to Slyusarchuk, the institute's primary aim would be \"to engage specialists, to be active — [to] have the possibility to be a scientist\". Anatoly Kashpirovsky, whom Slysarchuk called \"my idol in the profession\", also lobbied for the institute's establishment.\n\nOn 9 June 2011 he was first criticized in the press, by the weekly \"2000\". On 30 September 2011, Slysarchuk received the 2011 State Prize of Ukraine for \"scientific achievements in the field of education\": a series of works, \"The Complex of Educational Information Technologies for Presenting, Memorizing and Processing Superlarge Information Objects in the Learning Process\".\n\nThe Lviv newspaper \"Ekspres\" published the first of a series of articles criticizing him, \"The Sensational Exposure of Pseudo-professor Pi\", on 6 October 2011. It was followed by \"The First Victims of Pseudo-professor Pi\", \"Pseudo-doctor Slyusarchuk Kills People\", \"The Cheap Tricks of Professor Pi\", \"The New Victims of the Pseudo-Doctor\", \"Pseudo-doctor Slyusarchuk is in a Trap\", \"Pseudo-doctor Slyusarchuk Buried His Mother Alive\", \"The Pseudo-Doctor Sows New Deaths\", \"It is Just a Shock. The Pseudo-doctor Kills the Child of a Priest\", \"The Pi Record is Cancelled\", \"The Pi Record is Falsified,\" \"The Secret Protectors of Doctor Pi\", \"The Pseudo-Doctor Again Picked Up a Scalpel\", \"The Perverts of Minister Tabachnyk\", \"The Pseudo-Doctor, Sex and Drugs\", \"The Grave Sin of Minister Tabachnyk\", \"Three More New Victims of the Pseudo-Doctor\" (a video), \"The New Attitude of Doctor Pi\", \"The Intelligentsia of the Lviv Oblast Demand that Tabachnyk, Who is an Accessory of Doctor Pi, Be Relieved of His Position\", \"The Computer Operator of Doctor Pi Speaks Out\", \"New Actions Brought Against the Pseudo-Doctor\", \"A New Death in the Case of Doctor Pi\", \"The Millions of Doctor Pi Against Ekspres\", \"The Inquest Breaks the Action Brought Against Doctor Pi\", \"Doctor Pi is Ignorant of Even Arithmetic\", \"Doctor Pi Took Up to Tens of Thousands\". After the \"Ekspres\" articles were published, criminal complaints were again brought against Slyusarchuk.\n\nOn 14 November 2011 he was charged with fraud by the Berkut, and on 21 November he was informed that his records memorizing pi were canceled and removed from \"The Book of Records of Ukraine\". From 2 February to 1 March 2012, Slyusarchuk underwent a medical and psychiatric examination at the Lviv Oblast Psychiatric Hospital. The examination found him partially sane, authorizing a psychiatrist to supervise and treat him in a prison if and when needed. From 2 July to fall 2012, Slyusarchuk received a second psychiatric examination at the Pavlov Psychiatric Hospital in Kiev. On 14 February 2014 the Sykhiv Raion Court sentenced him to eight years in prison, with the judge reading the 150-page sentence based on the 26-volume criminal-case transcript.\n\nAccording to a birth certificate shown to journalists, Slyusarchuk was born in the village of Tuğ in the Hadrut Rayon of the Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast of the Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic. His father was Mushegyan Vartan Aramovich, an ethnic Armenian. His mother, a Ukrainian, was Ruslana Tykhonovna Slyusarchuk. The Hadrut Rayon civil registry reportedly changed his birth details to his mother’s by request in 1984, and he became Andriy Tykhonovych Slyusarchuk.\n\nSlyusarchuk said that he graduated from secondary school in Vinnytsia at age nine. His parents, medical professionals (his mother a pediatrician and his father a cardiac surgeon), died in a car accident the year he graduated from secondary school.\n\nDuring the 1980s he was subjected to punitive psychiatry, physically abused and sent to a psychiatric hospital where he was tied to a bed, given psychoactive drugs and injected with sulfozin. When the psychiatrists asked him which books he was reading, Slyusarchuk said that he was reading medical literature and works by Ivan Pavlov and Vladimir Lenin. He was sent to an institution for the mentally-ill children.\n\nSlyusarchuk was placed in a Soviet orphanage, where he was misunderstood by his teachers and encouraged to conform. When he tried to retrieve his secondary-school certification to enter a higher educational institution, he was labeled mentally ill and punished. At age 11, Slyusarchuk ran away from the orphanage.\n\nHe taught himself by reading the book \"Your Abilities, Man\", which was given to him by Soviet psychiatrist Andrei Snezhnevsky (who examined him when he was a child). When Slyusarchuk arrived in Moscow he found a Gypsy camp, where he was accepted, fed and taught to beg for money. At the time, he felt the environment was what he needed; he learned about Gypsy hypnotism and its use.\n\nAfter living with the Gypsies for about a year, Slyusarchuk met an employee of the Russian National Research Medical University. They became friends, and through him Slyusarchuk received an appointment with Soviet Minister of Health Yevgeniy Chazov.\n\nWith Chazov's help, at age 12 Slyusarchuk entered the general-therapy department of the Russian State Medical University. He specialized in neurosurgery under Professor E. I. Gusev (Гусев Е.И.), and his teachers included neurologists V. A. Karlov (Карлов В. А.), A. N. Konovalov and A. M. Vein (Вейн А.М.). Slyusarchuk claimed to have graduated from the Russian National Research Medical University with an honorable diploma at 18, beginning a postgraduate course without the usual internship.\n\nHis partial reported timeline was:\n\nIn June 2009, after claiming a world record for memorizing pi by being able to recite randomly selected sequences from the first 30 million places of pi, Slyusarchuk was congratulated by Ukrainian President Viktor Yuschenko and funding for a research center for the development of Slyusarchuk's methodology was discussed. A December 22 press release from the President of Ukraine reported that Yushchenko and Slyusarchuk had discussed an Institute of Brain Studies to prevent and treat neurological disorders, focusing on social problems such as drug and alcohol abuse. Yushchenko issued a decree providing for the Institute of Brain Studies, for research in neurology, psychiatry, psychology and neurorehabilitation, to be established within one month.\n\nSlyusarchuk claimed that his memorization skills were based on mental associations between figures, images, words, numbers (mnemonics) and a photographic memory of everything on which he concentrates. According to the scientists verifying Slyusarchuk's records, \"The mnemonic technique can be used by any person\".\nA February 2010 article in the newspaper \"Novaya\" reported that Slyusarchuk's student, Alexander Chervonyi, claimed that he could reproduce many of his teacher's memory performances (including the recitation of randomly-selected sequences from the first five million decimal places of pi.\n\nSlyusarchuk became interested in chess. In April 2011, he defeated the chess program Rybka in an exhibition match in Kiev while blindfolded. On 26 May, Slyusarchuk said that he memorized 2,600 books on chess in preparation for the game with Rybka. The \"Trinidad and Tobago Guardian\" newspaper published an account of Slyusarchuk’s victory over Rybka as \"Oh, the wonders of gullibility\", quoting the Internet-based chess newspaper \"Chess Today\": \"What can help [to prove that it was a mystification] are Slyusarchuk’s numerous absurd statements which show his complete ignorance of chess—quite unforgivable for a guy who has read, as is claimed, more than 2000 chess books within several months!\"\n\nAccording to Slyusarchuk's friend, journalist Igor Yurchenko, no one argued that Slyusarchuk played chess better than a world champion or a grandmaster; at the time, Slyusarchuk stressed that it was not a chess event but a demonstration of memory. Sponsors bought Slyusarchuk a heavy-duty computer which played many games daily with another comparable computer, and he memorized the strategy of these games. Memorizing thousands of chess games reportedly helped him defeat the Rybka-4; according to Yurchenko, Slyusarchuk just recalled memorized games.\n\nSlyusarchuk claimed to have set records for memorizing large amounts of digital data, sequences of geometric figures, words and other information, including one million digits of the figure pi. By 2008, he claimed to have memorized two million decimal places of pi and about 7,000 volumes of text; by the following year, his claim had increased to 15,000 volumes.\n\nBy June 2009 Slyusarchuk claimed to have set a record by memorizing the first 30 million decimal places of pi, which were printed in 20 volumes of text. He claimed to have memorized 200 million decimal places of pi by October 2010. None of the claimed pi records appear on the Pi World Ranking list.\n\nSlyusarchuk was known for his hypnotic skill; he claimed the ability to hypnotize people to feel no pain when burned. On a TV show, he hypnotized students of the L'viv University of Modern Technology () into believing that the onions they ate were apples. Slyusarchuk demonstrated hypnosis of a salesman who accepted a ₴1 bill, thinking it was a ₴500 bill. His televised demonstration of chess-position memory (memorizing all pieces on 80 boards) was criticized by invited chess master Grigoriy Timoshenko, who said that he was 99.9-percent sure that the performance was fake, and a \"New York Times\" article called Slyusarchuk \"an illusionist\".\n\nOn 6 October 2011 the Lviv newspaper \"Ekspres\" published its first article critical of Slyusarchuk, \"The Sensational Exposure of Pseudo-Professor Pi\", accusing him of forgery and fraud and investigating him in subsequent articles. Three weeks later, the newspaper published a letter from the Russian National Research Medical University saying that Slyusarchuk had not studied at the university. On 10 January 2012 the newspaper released a video of brain surgery performed by Slyusarchuk, surrounded by assistants in an operating room; in the video, he wiped his scalpel with cotton wool before incising the patient's brain. On 14 March \"Ekspres\" published an interview with Andriy Novosad, who told reporters that he wrote a computer program which Slyusarchuk tested with radio equipment for the pi demonstrations and created articles which were published in Slyusarchuk's name.\n\nAfter the \"Ekspres\" articles attracted widespread publicity Slyusarchuk denied the accusations in interviews for other media sources, saying that he had applied to the General Prosecutor of Ukraine to clarify the situation and disprove the \"Ekspres\" allegations. On 14 November 2011, the Ukrainian police detained him on suspicion of forgery and fraud.\n\nDuring the investigation, senior officials of the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sport of Ukraine (including department heads and the vice-minister) had told the press that Slyusarchuk's documents and scientific titles were valid according to Ukrainian law and protocol. Large portions of Slyusarchuk's scientific works were considered classified, with state secrets privilege in Ukraine and Russia.\nAt Slyusarchuk's trial people who admired him and invited him to work for them testified that although they were aware that he was not a doctor, they did not report him; he continued to practice neurosurgery in hospitals.\n\nFrom 2 February to 1 March 2012, Slyusarchuk underwent a psychiatric examination at Lviv Oblast Psychiatric Hospital. The examination found Slyusarchuk partially sane from a legal standpoint; he had a \"mixed personality disorder with a predominance of dissocial, hysterical and narcissistic elements\". According to Alexander Soroka, Slyusarchuk is mentally ill but responsible for his actions; if such a person is imprisoned, they would be supervised and treated by a psychiatrist as needed. The examination results were questioned by Ukrainian psychiatrist Semyon Gluzman: \"If Doctor Pi begins to testify, a lot of compromising materials on the powerful of the world can appear. But in this way, it all can be attributed to his mental illness. I saw many performances of Slyusarchuk on television, listened to his speeches on radio and did not notice any signs of mental illness\". According to Gluzman, none of his colleagues suspected that Slyusarchuk was mentally ill.\n\nHe received a second psychiatric examination at Pavlov Psychiatric Hospital in Kiev from 2 July to the fall of 2012. Ministry of Internal Affairs public-affairs department head Volodymyr Polishchuk said, \"Independent examination [was] conducted to check Slyusarchuk's mental health and his possible psychic and hypnotic abilities\". Slyusarchuk's first attorneys had based their strategy on a finding of mental incompetence, a strategy with which he disagreed. In his final testimony at the trial Slyusarchuk said, \"The logic of such 'expert opinions' is simple: to diminish the defendant's attempts to adduce evidence in his defense, to force court and public not to believe a word said by him, he is declared out of his mind. The true value of such 'examinations' is known because since the USSR punitive psychiatry has been a trusted servant of the NKVD and the KGB.\" According to investigators, he did not graduate from a university; his background consisted of an institutional school, a sewing vocational school in Chervonohrad and treatment at the Zhytomyr psychiatric hospital. With his forged credentials, he worked as a neurosurgeon and held senior positions for long periods.\n\nAccording to a former agent of the USSR secret service who knew Slyusarchuk by sight, he was probably a product of a secret KGB pilot project. The agent was aware of a program in which orphans with unusual abilities were recruited throughout the Soviet Union; many died as a result of neurological experiments, but Slyusarchuk survived. He believes that Slyusarchuk participated in the secret pilot projects, receiving a professorship in return. His medical knowledge was derived from books and his memory was actually faulty; over time, he came to believe that he actually held the university diplomas. According to the agent, sealed documents about Slyusarchuk are stored in the KGB archives.\n\nSlyusarchuk maintained that his case was fabricated by the Prosecutor General and the Security Service of Ukraine. In 2005, he reportedly accidentally damaged his original diploma from the Russian National Research Medical University; a month later he received a duplicate, and denied any forgery. In 2003 Slyusarchuk reportedly met with Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) agents, agreeing in writing not to disclose the results of his scientific works and advising the Ukrainian government. In 2011, he traveled to Moscow and asked the former FSB curator for help. When Slyusarchuk was told that the FSB would confirm his education and academic degrees if he cooperated with them, he refused.\n\nUnder questioning, the head of the university archives testified that Slyusarchuk showed her his damaged diploma in 2005 and his full name was legible. Verifying his surname in the registry, the woman submitted a request to the rector for approval. He did so, adding the instructions: \"Carry out according to procedure\"; the university neither proved nor disproved whether Slyusarchuk originally received a diploma from them.\n\nAt a 16 December 2011 press conference, Minister of Education and Science Dmytro Tabachnyk said that his ministry's Russian counterpart admitted that it had mistakenly issued Slyusarchuk a duplicate diploma. At the press conference, Slyusarchuk’s diplomas (including a duplicate) were demonstrated to be scanned documents.\n\nIn the Verkhovna Rada, Slyusarchuk's activities were called \"the largest-scale fraud in the 20 years of Ukrainian independence\". According to the Ukrainian Independent Information Agency, his defrauding of government agencies is unprecedented. In 2012, \"Ukrainsky Medychny Chasopys\" (\"Ukrainian Medical Journal\") published the outcome of his case entitled, \"Head doctors who let the person without medical training into operating room should be held criminally responsible.\" In the article, Ukrainian psychiatrist Semyon Gluzman expressed the opinion that Slyusarchuk skillfully took advantage of poor security; if he had chosen a lower-profile specialty, he might have succeeded. According to Gluzman, Ukraine has hundreds of people with the degree of Doctor of Sciences with expertise comparable to Slyusarchuk’s. In the journal, Doctor of Science Olga Bogomolets wrote that the admission of a person without medical training to an operating room violated laws clearly regulating who can practice medicine, when and where; a hospital supervising physician who violates the law must be held accountable.\n\nOn 14 February 2014, the Sykhiv Raion Court sentenced Slyusarchuk to eight years in prison after finding him guilty of five counts of illegal medical activities and two counts of murder by negligence: a 52-year-old named Lozovoy and three-year-old Daniil Prokopchuk of Ternopil Oblast. He was also found guilty of knowingly using forged documents and five counts of appropriating another's property by deception and breach of confidence (fraud). The court upheld victim claims, with Slyusarchuk fined about $40,000 (the amount of money paid for his services). He was also fined ₴70,000 to compensate Lozovoy's family and ₴30,000 for each of the other four victims. Slyusarchuk was fined a total of ₴500,000 in victim compensation and ₴44,000 in state fines. The court found that Slyusarchuk’s diplomas from the Moscow and Vinnytsia medical universities were falsified.\n\nIn a five-bed prison cell furnished with a table, a washstand, a toilet, bookshelves, a TV and a radio, he reads books on medicine, the criminal code and the criminal-procedure code. In September 2014 Slyusarchuk dismissed his attorneys, telling them that for what he paid for their services he could have bought ten more diplomas. He distrusts defense attorneys, feeling that they do their job poorly, and hoped to appeal his conviction at the regular session of the Lviv Oblast Appeal Court scheduled for 1 October 2014.\n\nOn 30 September 2011, Ukrainian president Viktor Yanukovych issued Decree No 960/2011 awarding Slyusarchuk the 2011 State Prize of Ukraine for \"scientific achievements in the field of education\" for a series of works: \"The complex of educational information technologies for presenting, memorizing and processing superlarge information objects in the learning process\". Slyusarchuk's research involved the technology of inputting large amounts of information into electronic databases and its playback. Portions on which Slyusarchuk worked are stamped \"secret\". Slyusarchuk's portions were published in Russia and are secret. His research was nominated by the academic administration of Lviv Polytechnic for the State Prize, and the issue was debated in Kiev by a commission of Ukrainian scientists.\n\nAs a State Prize laureate Slyusarchuk would have received ₴150,000; he did not, after his detention for fraud by the Berkut on 14 November 2011. The decree awarding the State Prize is unrevoked, describing his credentials as a professor of Information Systems and Networks at Lviv Polytechnic and a Doctor of Sciences in medicine.\n\nDocumentaries and TV programs have been made about Slyusarchuk, including a 2008 BBC documentary. In 2009 the STB Channel broadcast the documentary, \"Pravyla Zhyttya: Povelyteli Svidomosti\" (\"The Rules of Life: The Rulers of Consciousness\"). In 2012 the HTH channel broadcast a documentary by Oleg Vasilevsky, \"Nezbagnenna Afera Doktora \" (\"The Incredible Fraud of Doctor Pi\"). On 26 December 2012 the ТСН channel broadcast a documentary, \"Ukrainskiе Sensatsyi: Rascryli Vse Tainy \"Doktora Pi\"\" (\"Ukrainian Sensation: The Secrets of Doctor Pi\").\n"}
{"id": "24651898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24651898", "title": "Billboard Live Music Awards", "text": "Billboard Live Music Awards\n\nThe Billboard\" Live Music Awards (previously known as the Billboard\" Touring Conference and Awards until 2018) is an annual meeting sponsored by \"Billboard\" magazine that honors the top international live entertainment industry artists and professionals. Established in 2004, it has thus been described as \"part industry conference, part awards show\".\n\nMany of the awards are based on \"Billboard\"s Boxscore chart tracking concert, comedy and other live entertainment attendance and gate receipts, and on real box office performance. As a result, the awards often equate to commercial success. The \"top tour\" superlative award is also given on the basis of fan polls. The \"Legend of Live\" and Humanitarian awards are given to individuals for their ongoing contributions to the live entertainment touring industry.\n\nThe conference and awards are held in November of each year, traditionally at the Roosevelt Hotel in Midtown Manhattan in New York City but, since 2016, at hotels in the Los Angeles area. The conference usually takes place over two days and is attended by figures from the music and concert industry. Each year features a keynote speaker from the performance industry, who in the past have included the likes of Gene Simmons of Kiss and 3 Doors Down.\n\nWhile recorded music has an established awards structure headed by the Grammy Awards and also featuring the American Music Awards and the MTV Video Music Awards, live performance music has not had the same. The \"Billboard\" Touring Awards are an attempt to fill that gap. \"Billboard\" previously attempted to enter the awards arena for recorded music with the charts-based \"Billboard\" Music Award, which lasted from 1990 through 2006, returning in 2011. Those awards featured two slots for Concert Venue Award and Touring Venue Award, but were not otherwise live-performance-based.\n\nAward names and awards given themselves have varied somewhat each year, with for example the Top Comedy Tour and Concert Marketing and Promotion Awards being added in 2007 and the Fans Choice being added in 2008, both being determined by fan vote. There are typically three nominees in each category.\n\nRepeat winners in the awards have been common, with country artist Kenny Chesney winning Top Package Tour six consecutive years through 2009 and Bonnaroo Music Festival winning four times as well starting in 2004.\n\nThe fifteenth annual edition of the (newly named) awards took place on November 13, 2018, at the Montage Beverly Hills in Beverly Hills, California, in proceedings hosted by comedian Roy Wood Jr..\n\nThe fourteenth annual edition of the awards took place on November 15, 2017, at the Montage Beverly Hills in Beverly Hills, California, in proceedings hosted by Hasan Minhaj.\n\nThe thirteenth annual \"Billboard\" Touring Awards took place on a single day, November 9, 2016, this time at the SLS Hotel in Beverly Hills, California.\n\nThe twelfth annual \"Billboard\" Touring Awards took place on a single day, November 19, 2015, at the Roosevelt Hotel in New York City.\n\nThe eleventh annual \"Billboard\" Touring Awards took place on over two days in November 19–20, 2014, at the Roosevelt Hotel in New York City.\n\nThe tenth annual \"Billboard\" Touring Awards took place on over two days in November 13 and 14, 2013, at the Roosevelt Hotel in New York City.\n\nThe ninth annual \"Billboard\" Touring Awards again took place on over two days in November 2012 at the Roosevelt Hotel in New York City, despite the aftereffects of Superstorm Sandy.\n\nThe eighth annual \"Billboard\" Touring Awards took place on over two days in November 2011 at the Roosevelt Hotel in New York City.\n\nThe seventh annual \"Billboard\" Touring Awards took place on November 3 and 4, 2010, at the Sheraton Hotel in New York City, NY.\n\nThe sixth annual \"Billboard\" Touring Awards took place November 4 and 5, 2009, at the Roosevelt Hotel in New York City. The winners were:\n\n\nThe fifth annual \"Billboard\" Touring Awards took place November 20, 2008 in New York City.\n\n\nThe 2007 awards were held on November 15, 2007. Awards were based on box office performance from January 1, 2007 through September 30, 2007.\n\n\nThe 2006 awards were held on November 9, 2006 in New York City.\n\n\nThe 2005 awards were termed the \"Billboard\" Roadworks '05 Touring Awards.\n\n\nThe first annual \"Billboard\" Touring Awards were held November 8–9, 2004, at the Roosevelt Hotel in New York City, as the culmination of the first Billboard Backstage Pass Conference. The winners were announced in advance of the awards ceremony. The awards were not well known or publicized much during this time.\n\n"}
{"id": "29147376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29147376", "title": "Bogotá Bracelet", "text": "Bogotá Bracelet\n\nThe Bogotá Bracelet incident took place in May 1970 when Bobby Moore, the captain of the England national football team, was detained in Colombia for four days after being accused of stealing a bracelet from a jewellery shop located in the Bogotá hotel in which the team were staying.\n\nThe arrest took place in the build-up to the World Cup Finals where England were to defend the cup they had won in 1966. It provoked widespread reaction in the United Kingdom, including a diplomatic intervention at the behest of the British Prime Minister Harold Wilson, and across the world in general.\n\nOn 28 May 1970, Moore was conditionally released and flew to join his teammates in Mexico where he played in all of England's World Cup matches. The Colombian authorities came to the conclusion that Moore was innocent of any wrongdoing, but the case was not formally closed until 1972.\n\nAs part of their preparations for the 1970 FIFA World Cup being held in Mexico that summer, the England football team planned to play two friendly matches in South America to help them prepare for the high altitudes they would face once the tournament began.\n\nThey were scheduled to play first in Colombia, on 20 May 1970, and then in Ecuador on 24 May. England left their forward base in Mexico City on 18 May and arrived in the Colombian capital Bogotá, checking into the Hotel Tequendama.\n\nAlthough the various accounts of the incident differ somewhat in exact details, the basic outline of what happened is all the same. Located near the foyer of the hotel was a gift shop selling jewellery known as the Fuego Verde (Green Fire). A number of the English players visited the store at one point or another, browsing for gifts to take home. At 6:25pm, Moore went in with Bobby Charlton to look for a present for Charlton's wife. Team doctor Neil Phillips was also in the shop as at one point was Peter Thompson.\n\nAfter looking at some of the items in the display cases, Moore and Charlton found nothing that interested them and left again. They were standing in the foyer when the assistant in the shop, Clara Padilla, came out and accused them of stealing a valuable bracelet from a display case. Moore and Charlton protested their innocence and offered to allow themselves to be searched.\n\nDespite their denials, Padilla repeatedly identified them as the culprits of the alleged theft. Soon tourist police and hotel staff were on hand, as were most of the English players. Doctor Phillips went to fetch Alf Ramsey. When he arrived, Ramsey took charge of the situation and spoke to the authorities. Moore and Charlton were briefly questioned, and made an official statement.\n\nThis appeared to have cleared the matter up, and they even received apologies for the inconvenience. The match against Colombia went ahead, and England won the game 4–0, with Moore and Charlton both playing. By a gentlemen's agreement, the travelling British sports journalists agreed not to mention the incident.\n\nAfter their win in Bogotá, England then proceeded on to their match against Ecuador in Quito and won 2–0 there. England were scheduled to fly back to Mexico City via Bogotá, where there would be a four and a half hour stopover. Neil Phillips suggested that to avoid any further problems they should take an alternative route via Panama City. Both Ramsey and Moore rejected this idea, as they felt it would indicate wrongdoing and England took their arranged flight back to Bogotá.\n\nThey checked into the same hotel where the bracelet incident had taken place. To fill the time up while they waited for their flight the team sat down to watch the film \"Shenandoah\". As they were sitting there two plainclothes Colombian police officers quietly took Moore out and formally arrested him for theft.\n\nThe Colombian police acted after a new witness Alvaro Suarez came forward, claiming to have seen Moore take the bracelet. Only lobbying by the British ambassador had stopped Moore from being arrested at the airport in front of cameras. Suarez said he saw what happened through the shop window and supported the version of Clara Padilla.\n\nAs it became clear that Moore might be detained for some time, Ramsey decided that, with the World Cup just a few days away from beginning he had to go on to Mexico without his captain. Two FA officials remained in Bogotá to assist Moore, and further help was provided by British Embassy officials.\n\nNeither Bobby Charlton nor Peter Thompson were arrested, despite their presence in the shop at the time of the incident, and they left the hotel along with the rest of the squad and boarded the plane. Many of the other players hadn't noticed or realised the significance of Moore's absence, as he was often called away to do interviews or meet people. Once they had taken off, Ramsey explained what had happened to the players, staff and press.\n\nThe public relations problems of the English were further complicated when Jeff Astle, who hated flying, had several drinks to calm his nerves. Astle was clearly intoxicated once they reached Mexico City, and had to be helped along by his teammates. This led one Mexican newspaper to brand the English as \"a team of drunks and thieves\".\n\nMoore was held in a room in the Bogotá police headquarters while his fate was decided. He was ultimately charged, and faced with prosecution for theft. In light of the special circumstances, it was arranged that, rather than be sent to one of the city's prisons, Moore was kept under house arrest at the home belonging to the Director of the Colombian Football Federation Alfonso Senior. He was allowed to train, so he could keep up his fitness, although he was constantly followed by armed police guards. In press reports there was initially some confusion about the fact that the alleged theft and Moore's arrest had taken place several days apart.\n\nThe arrest sparked international media attention. Interest in the incident was stoked by the fact that Moore was a particularly well-known footballer generally respected throughout the game. In Britain there was massive press interest in Moore's wife Tina, who was shortly due to go out and watch England play in Mexico, and she was followed by a crowd of journalists wherever she went.\n\nMoore was generally perceived to be innocent. Ramsey expressed his own belief in his captain. \"I should have thought that the integrity of this man would be enough to answer these charges. It is too ridiculous for words\". The former Brazil coach Joao Saldanha observed that when he had stayed at the hotel with his team Botafogo they had experienced a similar incident – in which jewellry had been hidden on them and money demanded in order to avoid a scandal. Saldanha described the allegations against Moore as \"disgraceful\" and \"slander\".\n\nIn the England camp many of the players considered the charge ridiculous and treated it as a joke. Ramsey was more concerned as the matter disrupted his carefully planned preparations for the World Cup, and made a contingency plan to play Norman Hunter in Moore's central defensive role and make Alan Mullery the team's captain. He was facing up to the possibility that he might lose Moore for the entire World Cup.\n\nIn Bogotá, Moore was taken before a judge, Justice Peter Dorado, and questioned for four hours. Moore denied he knew anything about the theft or had even ever seen the bracelet in question. Confused by the conflicting claims, Justice Dorado arranged for the authorities to stage a re-enactment of the incident with Moore and Padilla. Her version was undermined as she claimed that Moore had slipped the bracelet into the left-hand pocket of his blazer, and it was demonstrated that the blazer had no pocket on the left side. She then changed various parts of her story and eventually left in tears. It was also questioned why the fresh witness, Alvaro Suarez waited four days to come forward. There were also conflicting suggestions about the value of the bracelet. Initially it was said to be valued around £500, but later it is claimed to be worth £5,000, while the owner of the shop requested £6,000 in compensation. As Moore was driven back from the re-enactment, cries of \"Viva Bobby\" could be heard from the streets.\n\nHarold Wilson hoped that a strong performance by England at the World Cup would boost the chances of his governing Labour Party being re-elected in the 1970 General Election. Wilson was so concerned by Moore's arrest that he requested repeated lobbying of the Colombian government by the British embassy in Bogotá. The Colombians were wary of creating what was fast becoming a diplomatic incident.\n\nOn 28 May 1970, Moore was taken before Justice Dorado and told there was insufficient evidence for a prosecution and he was to be set free. Moore released a statement \"I am happy to be set free and the allegations against me turned out to be groundless\". He promised to further co-operate with the Colombian authorities and thanked the Colombian people \"for the many expressions of sympathy and support which I have received from them in the last few days\".\n\nMoore was given a conditional release that required him to report to the Colombian consulate in Mexico, although this was abandoned soon afterwards with an official stating \"It was an accusation that needed proof. \"It was never proved. Moore has no obligation with the embassy. There was never much case\".\n\nMoore arrived in Mexico City and then flew on to Guadalajara where the English were preparing to play their opening match against Romania on 2 June. He was greeted warmly at the airport by Ramsey. Moore was taken back to the England team hotel where he was greeted by the other players lined up in a guard of honour to applaud him. On 2 June he captained England to a 1–0 victory against Romania.\n\nEngland went out of the World Cup in the Quarter Final stage after losing 3–2 to West Germany. Bobby Moore was widely praised for his performances in the tournament, especially in England's group stage match against Brazil. Ramsey later told a journalist that the incident had been the worst thing that ever happened to him in all his years of football.\n\nIn October 1970, the Colombian authorities re-opened the case but could find nothing to prove there had ever been a theft. Moore and Charlton had to attend a hearing at Bow Street Magistrates Court after which the case was formally closed in 1972. Despite being cleared the incident continued to dog Moore, and it has been suggested as a major reason why he was never awarded a knighthood. The Fuego Verde shop closed soon afterwards and Clara Padilla ended up fleeing to the United States.\n\nA general consensus exists that the incident was an attempted frame-up, either to try to secure money from the England camp or possibly to have Moore ruled out of the World Cup, weakening England's chances of winning it. Another theory has occasionally been proposed, that a bracelet was taken by one of the other England players, possibly as part of a prank, and that Moore took the blame to protect them. This was given credence by a comment that Moore made shortly before his death, that seemed to hint at this, when he told biographer Jeff Powell \"Perhaps one of the lads did something foolish, a prank with unfortunate consequences\". However, this theory has been dismissed by Tina Moore, his wife at the time, and by Doctor Phillips.\n\n"}
{"id": "1513032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1513032", "title": "British Touring Car Championship", "text": "British Touring Car Championship\n\nThe British Touring Car Championship is a touring car racing series held each year in the United Kingdom, currently organised and administered by TOCA. It was established in 1958 as the British Saloon Car Championship and was renamed as the British Touring Car Championship for the 1987 season. The championship, currently running Next Generation Touring Car regulations, has been run to various national and international regulations over the years including FIA Group 2, FIA Group 5, FIA Group 1, FIA Group A, FIA Super Touring and FIA Super 2000. A lower-key Group N class for production cars ran from 2000 until 2003.\n\nThe championship was initially run with a mix of classes, divided according to engine capacity, racing simultaneously. This often meant that a driver who chose the right class could win the overall championship without any chance of overall race wins, thereby devaluing the title for the spectators – for example, in the 1980s Chris Hodgetts won two overall titles in a small Toyota Corolla prepared by Hughes Of Beaconsfield, at that time a Mercedes-Benz/Toyota main dealer when most of the race wins were going to much larger cars; and while the Ford Sierra Cosworth RS500s were dominating at the front of the field, Frank Sytner took a title in a Class B BMW M3 and John Cleland's first title was won in a small Class C Vauxhall Astra.\n\nIn 1990, the BTCC introduced a class for cars with an engine displacement up to 2.0 litres which would later be adopted by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile and become the Super Touring regulations that were used in various championships in Europe and around the world. In their first year, these cars were run alongside a second class which continued to allow larger engines and was once again dominated by the Ford Sierra Cosworth RS500, however from 1991 they became the only cars eligible to compete. The new one-class system was popular with manufacturers from the beginning with six manufacturer supported teams from BMW, Ford, Mitsubishi, Nissan, Toyota and Vauxhall entered in the championship. During the first seasons, the cars weren't fitted with aerodynamic aids such as a front splitter or a rear wing which were allowed from 1995 after Alfa Romeo caused controversy a year earlier, when they entered the 155 fitted with a rear wing - an item that was delivered with the road-going version of the 155, however unfitted in its boot.\nThe continuously high number of manufacturer-backed teams meant rapid development on the cars and quickly growing costs to compete which caused several manufacturers to withdraw from the championship until the 2000 season, when only Ford, Honda and Vauxhall remained in the championship.\nTo this day, the 'super touring era' during the 1990s is still looked at as the most successful period of the BTCC. The high number of manufacturer-backed teams provided very close competition, close and hard-fought racing on track and many spectators at the circuits.\n\n In order to reduce the costs to compete in the championship, the organisers introduced new regulations for the 2001 season. The BTC Touring regulations cut costs dramatically but both manufacturer and spectator interest was low. The Super 2000 rules were adopted for the 2007 season. The 2000s saw cheaper cars than the later Supertouring era, with fewer factory teams and fewer international drivers.\n\nIn 2009, the BTCC released details of its Next Generation Touring Car (NGTC) specification, to be introduced from 2011. The introduction of these new technical regulations were designed to dramatically reduce the design, build and running costs of the cars and engines as well as reducing the potential for significant performance disparities between cars. The NGTC specification also aimed to cut costs by reducing reliance on WTCC/S2000 equipment, due to increasing costs/complexity and concerns as to its future sustainability and direction.\n\nCurrently, the cars used are a mix of 2.0 L saloons (sedans) such as the Toyota Avensis and Chevrolet Cruze, station wagons (estates) such as the Subaru Levorg as well as hatchback cars such as the Honda Civic and Ford Focus, based on models from a variety of manufacturers, using NGTC regulations. S2000 cars continued running in the Jack Sears Trophy until the 2014 season. \n\nBTCC teams are a mixture of manufacturer entries (currently Honda, MG, BMW, Vauxhall and Subaru) and independent teams such as BTC Norlin, and Motorbase Performance.\n\nIn 2010, following Vauxhall's decision to pull out of the series, there were two new works teams, : Chevrolet, run by RML; and Honda, run by Team Dynamics.\n\nIn 2005, Team Dynamics became the first independent outfit to win the BTCC drivers and team championships; Matt Neal won the overall and independent drivers contests in his Team Dynamics Honda Integra. This included finishing all 30 championship races that year, something no other driver had achieved before and only equalled by Adam Morgan some 10 years later in 2015. This ended Vauxhall's run of 4 victories in the drivers and teams championships between 2001 and 2004. Neal and Dynamics were also victorious in 2006, before Vauxhall won the 2007 title with Italian Fabrizio Giovanardi. Team Dynamics also achieved the first overall independents race win in the 'Supertouring' era when Neal won a round of the 1999 BTCC at Donington park, earning the team prize-money of £250,000.\n\nAs a result of Matt Neal's championship victories, and the fact that Team Dynamics were designing and building their own S2000 Honda Civic Type R (with unofficial support from Honda), they were no longer entered into the Independents category, and were classed as neither an \"independent\" or \"works\" team until the 2009 season, when the Manufacturers championship was renamed Manufacturers/Constructors Championship to allow both Team Aon and Team Dynamics to compete with at the time the sole works entry of Vauxhall.\n\nAs of the 2014 British Touring Car Championship, all cars are built to the same regulations:\n\nThere are strict limits to the modifications which can be made to the cars, which are intended to reduce the cost of running a competitive team, which had become prohibitive in the final years of the Super Touring rules. These cost reductions saw a rise in independent entries – teams or individuals entering cars purchased from the manufacturer teams when they update their chassis. \n\nWith the introduction of the NGTC rules, all cars share a number of common components provided through a contract with RML Group. This has allowed many independent teams to enter without the need for manufacturer support, and negating the need to source ex-works cars.\nTeams can install an engine from their marque's broad 'family' of cars, or opt to lease an engine from TOCA, built by Swindon Engines which also helps to make the cost of entry more affordable.\n\nTo further keep costs in check, the BTCC uses a single tyre supplier, with Dunlop the current supplier of rubber to all the teams. For dry races, the Dunlop SportMaxx Prime tyre is used, along with the use of the Option tyre (Soft/Hard) mandated at one race each meeting. For wet races, the Dunlop SportMaxx BluResponse tyre is used.\n\nThe rules previously allowed for a variety of different fuels in a bid to encourage more efficient cars. In 2004 Mardi Gras Motorsport independently entered a Liquified petroleum gas powered Super 2000 Honda Civic Type-R (which was subsequently replaced by a more competitive BTC-Touring Peugeot 406 Coupé, still LPG powered), and in 2005 Tech-Speed Motorsport converted an ex-works Vauxhall Astra Coupé to run on bio-ethanol fuel. In the middle of 2006, Kartworld's owner-driver Jason Hughes converted his 4-cylinder MG ZS to run on Bio-Ethanol, soon followed by the West Surrey Racing cars of championship contender Colin Turkington and Rob Collard, and for the final event at Silverstone, Richard Marsh converted his Peugeot 307 to run on bio-ethanol fuel. Only Hughes continued on this fuel in 2007 and 2008.\nThe regulations also permitted cars to run on diesel; attempted first in the 2007 season by Rick Kerry in a BMW 120d E87 run by Team AFM Racing. In 2008 SEAT Sport UK entered two Turbo Diesel Power SEAT Leons – the first diesel powered manufacturer entered cars.\nAt the start of the 2010 season, it was announced that Team AON racing had converted both of their Ford Focus ST cars to run on LPG.\n\nUnder current NGTC regulations, all entrants use Carless HiperFlo 300 which is a 101/102 RON and 89/90 MON unleaded gasoline with approximately 2% oxygen content that meets the FIA ‘Appendix J’ gasoline specification.\n\nThe following regulations have been applied to the championship:\n\nBeing a national championship, the British Touring Car Championship has visited circuits throughout the United Kingdom over its long history. Currently the series visits nine different tracks in England and Scotland over the course of ten meetings. These tracks are: Brands Hatch (Indy Layout), Donington Park, Thruxton Circuit (the fastest track ever visited by the BTCC, with an average speed of 111.31 mph, set by Andrew Jordan during qualifying in 2014), Oulton Park, Croft Circuit, Snetterton Motor Racing Circuit, Knockhill Racing Circuit, Rockingham Motor Speedway and Silverstone Circuit with a return to Brands Hatch (GP Layout) at the end of the season.\n\nIn the past, the BTCC has visited Mondello Park in Ireland and Pembrey Circuit in Wales. A street race around the city of Birmingham known as the Birmingham Superprix, was held in 1989 and 1990. Aintree Motor Racing Circuit, Crystal Palace circuit and Goodwood Circuit have all hosted rounds in the past.\n\nOn the Saturday of a race weekend there are two practice sessions followed by a 30-minute qualifying session which determines the starting order for the first race on the Sunday, the fastest driver lining up in pole position.\n\nEach race typically consists of between 16 and 25 laps, depending on the length of the circuit. A race may be extended by three laps if three or more laps have been run behind a safety car.\n\nThe grid for race two is based on the finishing order of race one. For race three, a draw takes place to decide at which place the grid is 'reversed'. This means drivers finishing race two in positions 6th through 12th could take pole position for race 3 depending on the outcome of the draw. For example, if ball number 7 is drawn, the driver finishing in 7th position in race two starts on pole, 6th place starts in second place, 5th place starts in third etc. Drivers finishing in 8th place and beyond would start race three in their finishing order for race two. The draw is normally conducted by a celebrity or VIP, live on TV. For 2014, this was changed so that the driver who finished Race 2 in 10th position made the draw. Fabrizio Giovanardi has twice managed to put himself on pole position by drawing out number 10.\n\nBefore 2006, the driver finishing in 10th place in race two took pole position for race three. This initiated deliberate race 'fixing', whereby some drivers attempted to finished in 10th place during race two to gain pole position in race three. This \"reverse grid\" rule polarised opinion: some fans enjoy the spectacle afforded by having unlikely drivers on pole position while faster ones have to battle through the field; others feel it detracts from the purity of the racing. For example, some drivers might decide to slow down and let others pass them, thereby improving their own starting position for the \"reverse grid\" race, which is contrary to the spirit of motor racing – which is to try to come first in every race. It also led to some safety concerns as drivers would slow dramatically on the approach to the finish line, with cars behind forced to take evasive action to avoid collecting slower cars ahead. These factors contributed the rule change for the 2006 season.\n\nPoints are awarded to the top fifteen drivers in each race as follows:\n\n\nPoints are awarded to the top ten drivers in each race as follows:\n\nThe BBC screened highlights of every race from 1988 to 2001. The F1 commentator at the time, Murray Walker, commentated. From 1997, some races were screened live with Charlie Cox joining Murray Walker. After 1997 the commentary team was Charlie Cox and John Watson with Murray Walker dedicating his time to Formula 1.\n\nIn the UK, ITV covered the series from 2002, with commentary from Ben Edwards and former champion Tim Harvey, with Toby Moody replacing Edwards after he replaced Martin Brundle on the BBC's F1 coverage in 2012 and David Addison replaced Toby Moody for the 2013 season. In 2006 the ITV coverage included highlights from the first and second race of the day and live coverage of the third and final race. This returned in the second half of 2007, after the first five meetings had been on ITV3 (a digital channel with fewer viewers), with a half-hour late-night highlights show. ITV also has a Sunday night show called Motorsport UK, featuring many of the supporting races. From 2008, the races were screened live on ITV4, along with the support races. ITV has a one-hour highlights programme on the Monday night following the race.\n\nThe series is screened in other countries. In Australia, Fox Sports Australia have been covering the BTCC championship since 2000. From 2009 the ITV coverage has screened on ONE HD. Speed TV screened several seasons in the USA over the winter, but this ended when the network became Fox Sports 1 in 2013. BTCC returned to the air in the US with the 2015 season, being aired on CBS Sports Network in condensed, one-hour packages like those aired on Speed. Unlike Speed's offering as the series being winter programming filling the void after the American racing season, CBSSN airs events a week or so after their actual running.\n\nMotors TV used to show all the races live, including some support races, both in the UK and across Europe. In 2007 Setanta Sports showed all the races live, including the support races; this ceased when the entire day's coverage moved to ITV4.\n\nLive timing for the BTCC and its support races, as well as testing, is provided by Timing Solutions Ltd from their website. This service allows you to follow free practice and qualifying as well as race day action via a timing screen from your computer or mobile phone.\n\nCurrently, five championships are awarded per season. The overall driver's championship is the driver gaining the most points overall throughout the season. Since 1992, the Independents driver championship has also been awarded to the leading non-manufacturer-backed driver. There are also awards for the best overall team, leading manufacturer and, since 2005, the top independent team. Previous championship titles were awarded to the leading \"Production\" (or \"Class B\") driver and team between 2000 and 2003. The Jack Sears Trophy was introduced for the 2013 season and was awarded to the highest scoring driver comping in S2000 machinery. For 2014, with S2000 cars no longer eligible to compete, it was awarded to the drive that had made up the most places from their grid position throughout the season. From the 2015 season the Jack Sears Trophy has been awarded to the highest placed rookie driver at the end of the season. For the 60th anniversary year in 2018, any driver who had yet to take an overall podium was eligible to contest the Jack Sears Trophy.\n\nThe BTCC has had several championship sponsors over the years.\nThe BTCC features entries with the backing, funding and technical support of a motor manufacturer. This may be a motor racing team running cars on behalf of the manufacturer or cars being run directly by the factory. Below is a timeline of manufacturer/constructor entries from the beginning of the 2-litre era.\n\nEach BTCC race meeting, the crowds are kept further entertained by the appearance of high-profile supporting championships, known as the TOCA Support Package, from the manufacturers Ford, Ginetta, Porsche and Renault.\n\nThe TOCA Support Package consists of five main support championships, which support the championship at almost every round, along with several smaller championships supporting one or two events. All the support championships are either Single Make Championships or Formula racing.\n\nAfter previously supported the BTCC in the late 1990s and then in 2013 and 2014, the British Formula Ford Championship announced that it was folding to become the MSA Formula, the FIA's Formula 4 championship in the UK for the 2015 season. Known as F4 British Championship from 2016, the championship uses Mygale carbon-fibre monocoque chassis and a Ford 1.6L EcoBoost engine as used in the more modern Formula Ford cars. \n\nThe Ginetta GT Supercup is a GT style, multi class championship. The main class is the G55 class, utilising Ginetta's G55 car. The second class, known as the G50 class, utilises the older and less powerful Ginetta G50. Most weekends in 2013 see three Supercup races with a few rounds hosting only two races. Ginetta also run a championship on the support package that caters for up and coming young talent in the form of the Ginetta Junior Championship. These 14- to 17-year-olds race in identical Ginetta G40J cars with strict regulations which help keep costs down. In 2013, the championship with run two races at all BTCC weekends.\n\nOut of all the current support series, the Porsche Carrera Cup GB is the longest serving support championship. Drivers compete in identical Porsche 911 GT3 Cup (Type 997) cars which produce 450 bhp. The three tier championship splits drivers according to their racing experience. Professional drivers compete in the Pro class, with semi-professional and amateur drivers racing in either Pro-Am1 or Pro-Am2. In 2013, the Carrera Cup will hold two races at each BTCC meeting.\n\nFinally, the Renault Clio Cup UK allows aspiring touring car drivers to showcase their talent in this single make series, utilising Clio Renaultsport 200 cars. The championship awards three different titles for drivers. Along with the overall drivers’ championship, younger rookie drivers can chase points for the Graduate Cup and older gentlemen drivers can seek points for the Masters Cup. During 2013, the Clio Cup will hold two races at all BTCC weekends except the rounds at Croft and Knockhill.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20816194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20816194", "title": "Ciutat de Carlet International Piano Competition", "text": "Ciutat de Carlet International Piano Competition\n\nThe Ciutat de Carlet International Piano Competition is a piano competition held annually in Carlet, Spain. It was founded as a national competition (1991 to 1996).\n\n\"Juror presidents in bold.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16298046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16298046", "title": "Clarence Park Festival", "text": "Clarence Park Festival\n\nClarence Park Festival is the longest running free music festival in Yorkshire, England. Known initially as Clarence Rocks Off it has been held annually at the bandstand in Clarence Park, Wakefield since 1991.\n\nIt is the flagship event for Wakefield Music Collective, a non-profit community group with open membership. Estimated attendance of the festival ranges between 2,000 and 8,000 depending on weather, and it is funded largely through grants, corporate sponsorship and other fundraising events throughout the year.\n\nThe 23rd Festival is taking place on the weekend of 26 and 27 July 2014. During the two days the Festival will showcase a host of bands as well as craft and food stalls, and a beer tent.\n\nMost artists are chosen by The Music Collective via a democratic application process which invites bands to apply via a post or an online portal. Selection takes place in April, followed by a press launch in May. The event is traditionally opened each day by a Wakefield-based act. There are no hard-and-fast rules on which genres are allowed to apply or play.\n\nAlongside local acts, over the years the lineup has included, Dodgy, Eddie and The Hot Rods, Zodiac Mindwarp & The Love Reaction, John Otway and The Cribs' first band Wrinkle.\n\n"}
{"id": "10218190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10218190", "title": "Deconstruction Tour", "text": "Deconstruction Tour\n\nDeconstruction Tour was a one-day punk music and skate festival that was staged in various countries across Europe. It first took place in 1999 and occurred annually until 2006. The tour was arranged by Destiny Tourbooking. In general, the tour offered the opening slot of each day to a local, often unsigned band, with the following acts increasing in notability throughout the lineup. The festival also included displays by BMX riders and skaters.\n\nAside from the first year, 2006 was possibly the least successful for the tour, due to problems with booking bands and the limited number of dates that were booked. The tour has not gone ahead since 2006.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThere was no tour in 2007, and although the organisers hoped to bring it back for 2008, it appears that there will be no further Deconstruction Tours.\n\n\nNOTE: Although this reference directs to a forum, the posts are answered by \"Dave\" - this is the owner/booker of Destiny.\n"}
{"id": "11409359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11409359", "title": "Ecological extinction", "text": "Ecological extinction\n\nEcological extinction is \"the reduction of a species to such low abundance that, although it is still present in the community, it no longer interacts significantly with other species\". \n\nEcological extinction stands out because it is the interaction ecology of a species that is important for conservation work. They state that \"unless the species interacts significantly with other species in the community (e.g. it is an important predator, competitor, symbiont, mutualist, or prey) its loss may result in little to no adjustment to the abundance and population structure of other species\". \n\nThis view stems from the neutral model of communities that assumes there is little to no interaction within species unless otherwise proven.\n\nEstes, Duggins, and Rathburn (1989) recognize two other distinct types of extinction:\n\nRobert Paine (1969) first came up with the concept of a keystone species while studying the effects of the predatory sea star \"Pisaster ochraceus\", on the abundance of the herbivorous gastropod, \"Tegula funebralis\". This study took place in the rocky intertidal habitat off the coast of Washington; Paine removed all \"Pisaster\" in 8m x 10m plots weekly while noting the response of \"Tegula\" for two years. He found that removing the top predator, in this case being \"Pisaster\", reduced species number in the treatment plots. Paine defined the concept of a keystone species as a species that has a disproportionate effect on the community structure of an environment in relation to its total biomass. This keystone species effect forms the basis for the concept of ecological extinction.\n\nEstes et al. (1978) evaluated the potential role of the sea otter as the keystone predator in near-shore kelp forests. They compared the Rat and Near islands in the Aleutian islands to test if \"sea otter predation controls epibenthic invertebrate populations (specifically sea urchins), and in turn releases the vegetation association from intense grazing\". Estes and his colleagues found that different size structures and densities of sea urchins were correlated with the presence of sea otter populations, and because they are the principal prey of this keystone predator, the sea otters were most likely the main determinants of the differences in sea urchin populations. With high sea otter densities the herbivory of sea urchins in these kelp forest was severely limited, and this made competition between algal species the main determinant in survival. However, when sea otters were absent, herbivory of the sea urchins was greatly intensified to the point of decimation of the kelp forest community. This loss of heterogeneity serves as a loss of habitat for both fish and eagle populations that depend on the richly productive kelp forest environment. Historical over harvesting of sea otter furs has severely restricted their once wide-ranging habitat, and only today are scientists starting to see the implications of these local extinctions. Conservation work needs to focus on finding the density threshold that render the sea otters an effective population. It must then continue and artificially repopulate the historical range of the sea otter in order to allow kelp forest communities to re-establish.\n\nThe California spiny lobster, or \"Panulirus interruptus\", is another example of a keystone predator that has a distinct role in maintaining species diversity in its habitat. Robles (1987) demonstrated experimentally that the exclusion of spiny lobsters from the intertidal zone habitats led to the competitive dominance of mussels (\"Mytilus edulis\" and \"M. californianus\"). This results shows another example of how the ecological extinction of a keystone predator can reduce species diversity in an ecosystem. Unfortunately, the threshold of ecological extinction has long passed due to over fishing now that many local extinctions of the California spiny lobster are common. \n\nJackson et al. (2001) took a much needed historical perspective on the role of ecological extinction caused by overfishing of oysters in the Chesapeake Bay. Commercial oyster fishing had not affected the bay ecosystem until mechanical dredges for harvesting were utilized in the 1870s. The bay today is plagued by eutrophication due to algal blooms, and the resulting water is highly hypoxic. These algal blooms have competitively excluded any other species from surviving, including the rich diversity in faunal life that once flourished such as dolphins, manatees, river otters, sea turtles, alligators, sharks, and rays. This example highlights the top-down loss of diversity commercial fishing has on marine ecosystems by removing the keystone species of the environment.\n\nNovaro et al. (2000) assessed the potential ecological extinction of guanacos (\"Lama guanicoe\") and lesser rheas (\"Pterocnemia pennata\") as a prey source for native omnivores and predators in the Argentine Patagonia. These native species are being replaced by introduced species such as the European rabbit, red deer, and domestic cattle; the cumulative damage from the increased herbivory by introduced species has also served to accelerate destruction of the already dwindling Argentine pampas and steppe habitats. This was the first study to take into account a large number of diverse predators, ranging from skunks to pumas, as well as conduct their survey in non-protected areas that represent the majority of southern South America. Novaro and his colleagues found that the entire assemblage of native carnivores relied primarily on introduced species as a prey base. They also suggested that the lesser rhea and guanaco had already passed their ecological effective density as a prey species, and thus were ecological extinct. It is possible that the niches of introduced species as herbivores too closely mirrored those of the natives, and thus competition was the primary cause of ecological extinction. The effect of introduction of new competitors, such as the red deer and rabbit, also served to alter the vegetation in the habitat, which could have further pronounced the intensity of competition. Guanacos and rheas have been classified as a low risk for global extinction, but this simplistic view of their demography doesn't take into account that they have already become functionally extinct in the Argentine Patagonia. Novaro and his colleagues suggest \"this loss could have strong effects on plant-animal interactions, nutrient dynamics, and disturbance regimes ...\" This is a prime example of how current conservation policy has already failed to protect the intended species because of its lack of a functionally sound definition for extinction.\nSeed dispersal mechanisms play a fundamental role in the regeneration and continuation of community structure, and a recent study by Christian (2001) demonstrated a shift in the composition of the plant community in the South African shrublands following an invasion by the Argentine ant \"(Linepithema humile)\". Ants disperse up to 30% of the flora in the shrublands and are vital to the survival of fynbos plants because they bury the large seeds away from the dangers of predation and fire damage. It is also crucial for seeds to be buried, because nearly all seed germination takes place in the first season after a fire. Argentine ants, a recent invader, do not disperse even small seeds. Christian tested whether the invasion of the Argentine ant differentially effected small and large-seeded fauna. He found that post-fire recruitment of large-seeded flora was reduced disproportionately for large seeds in sites already invaded by Argentine ants. These initial low large-seed density recruitments will eventually lead the domination of small-seeded fauna in invaded habitats. The consequences of this change in community structure highlight the struggle for dispersal of large-seeded flora that have potential reverberations around the world because ants are major ecological seed dispersers throughout the globe.\n\nThe McConkey and Drake (2006) study is unique because it was one of the first attempts to model a density-dependent threshold relationship that described ecological extinction. They studied a seed dispersal interaction between flying foxes and trees with large seeds on the tropical Pacific Islands. Insular flying foxes (\"Pteropus tonganus)\", are considered to be keystone species because they are the only seed dispersers that can carry large seeds long distances. The host-pathogen model by Janzen and Connell suggests that survivorship of seeds in the tropics greatly increases the further away from the parent tree it lands, and that trees require this dispersal in order to avoid extinction. In the pathogen latent environment of the tropics, seed dispersal only becomes more paramount to species survival. As hypothesized, McConkey and Drake found a threshold relationship between the Flying Fox Index (FFI) and the median proportion of seeds carried over five meters. Below the threshold of abundance seed dispersal was insignificant and independent of flying fox abundance; however, above the threshold, dispersal positively correlated with increased flying fox abundance (as measured by the FFI). Although they did not directly prove the cause for this relationship, McConkey and Drake proposed a behavioral mechanism. Flying foxes are known to be territorial, and in the absence of competition a flying fox will eat within one tree, effectively dropping the seeds right below it. Alternatively, if there is a high density of flying foxes feeding at one time (abundance above the threshold density) then aggressive behavior, such as stealing fruit from another individual's territory, will lead to longer average seed dispersal. In this way the seed dispersing flying fox has a disproportional effect on the overall community structure in comparison to their relative biomass. Modeling the effect of ecological extinction on communities is the first step to applying this framework into conservation work.\n\nWhile ecologists are just starting to get a grapple on the significant interactions within an ecosystem, they must continue to find an effective density threshold that can maintain the level of equilibrium species diversity. Only with this knowledge of where and to what extent a specific species interacts with its environment will the proper and most efficient levels of conservation work take place. This work is especially important on the limited ecosystems of islands, where there are less likely to be replacement species for specific niches. With species diversity and available habitat decreasing rapidly worldwide, identifying the systems that are most crucial to the ecosystem will be the crux of conservation work.\n\nClimate change has produced numerous shifts in the distributions and abundances of species. Thomas et al. (2004) went on to assess the extinction risk due to these shifts over a broad range of global habitats. Their predictive model using midline estimates for climate warming over the next 50 years suggests that 15–37% of species will be \"committed to extinction\" by 2050. Although the average global temperature has risen .6°C, individual populations and habitats will only respond to their local changes in climate. Root et al. (2002) suggests that local changes in climate may account for density changes in regions, shifts in phenology (timing) of events, changes in morphology (biology) (such as body size), and shifts in genetic frequencies. They found that there have been an average phenological shift of 5.1 days earlier in the spring for a broad range of over a thousand compiled studies. This shift was also, as predicted, more pronounced in the upper latitudes that have concurrently had the largest shift in local average temperatures.\n\nWhile the loss of habitat, loss of pollinator mutualisms, and the effect of introduced species all have distinct pressures on native populations, these effects must be looked underneath a synergistic and not an independent framework. Climate change has the potential to exacerbate all of these processes. Nehring (1999) found a total of 16 non-indigenous thermophilic phytoplankton established in habitats northwards of their normal range in the North Sea. He likened these changes in range of more southerly phytoplankton to climatic shifts in ocean temperature. All of these effects have additive effects to the stress on populations within an environment, and with the additionally fragile and more complete definition of ecological extinction must be taken into account into preventative conservation measures.\n\nConservation policy has historically lagged behind current science all over the world, but at this critical juncture politicians must make the effort to catch up before massive extinctions occur on our planet. For example, the pinnacle of American conservation policy, the Endangered Species Act of 1973, fails to acknowledge any benefit for protecting highly interactive species that may help maintain overall species diversity. Policy must first assess whether the species in question is considered highly interactive by asking the questions \"does the absence or loss of this species, either directly or indirectly, incur a loss of overall diversity, effect the reproduction or recruitment of other species, lead to a change in habitat structure, lead to a change in productivity or nutrient dynamics between ecosystems, change important ecological processes, or reduce the resilience of the ecosystem to disturbances?\". After these multitudes of questions are addressed to define an interactive species, an ecologically effective density threshold must be estimated in order to maintain this interaction ecology. This process holds many of the same variables contained within viable population estimates, and thus should not be difficult to incorporate into policy. To avoid mass extinction on a global scale unlike anyone has seen before, scientists must understand all of the mechanisms driving the process. It is now that the governments of the world must act in order to prevent this catastrophe of the loss of biodiversity from progressing further and wasting all of the time and money spent on previous conservation efforts.\n"}
{"id": "16433890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16433890", "title": "Erdélyi Napló", "text": "Erdélyi Napló\n\nErdélyi Napló is a Hungarian language right-wing weekly published in Bihor, and distributed nationally throughout Transylvania.\n\n"}
{"id": "32840268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32840268", "title": "Ethnic violence in South Sudan", "text": "Ethnic violence in South Sudan\n\nEthnic violence in South Sudan has a long history among South Sudan's varied ethnic groups. South Sudan has 64 tribes with the largest being the Dinkas, who constitute about 35% of the population and predominate in government. The second largest are the Nuers. Conflict is often aggravated among nomadic groups over the issue of cattle and grazing land and is part of the wider Sudanese nomadic conflicts.\n\nIn 2010, Dennis Blair, then United States Director of National Intelligence, issued a warning that \"over the next five years...a new mass killing or genocide is most likely to occur in southern Sudan.\" In April 2017, Priti Patel, the Secretary of the United Kingdom's Department for International Development, declared the violence in South Sudan as genocide.\n\nThose from the Murle and the Lou Nuer are largely nomadic cattle herders. Cattle are used as food and are used as a store of wealth. It takes 20 cows to buy a bride if a young man hopes to marry, which encourages cattle raiding. Violence between the two groups go back generations, exacerbated by tensions over land and water. The attacks often target an entire village, burning them in their round thatched huts. Militias frequently abduct children during cattle raids, who are then raised as their own. This is seen as a method, notably among the Murle, to increase the numbers of the small minority group. In past generations, attacks used machetes and sticks. However, after decades of civil war, the region is awash with guns, and young men are now armed with high-powered weapons. In 2017, local organizations said that more than 5,000 people were killed since 2011 in cattle raids in South Sudan.\n\nThe governing party, the Sudan People's Liberation Movement (SPLM), and the army, the Sudan People's Liberation Army (SPLA), have been accused of being dominated by the Dinka. Many refer to the dominance of Dinkas as the \"Dinkocracy\". A Dinka lobbying group known as the \"Jieng Council of Elders\" is often accused of being behind hardline SPLM policies. While the army used to attract men from across tribes, during the South Sudanese Civil War, the SPLA had largely become a militia of soldiers from the Dinka stronghold of Bahr el Ghazal, home region of President Kiir and the Chief of Staff, and the army was often referred to within the country as \"the Dinka army\". Much of the worst atrocities committed are blamed on a group known as \"Mathiang Anyoor\" (Brown caterpillar) or \"Dot Ke Beny\" (Rescue the President), a militia of Dinkas formed to protect Kiir and Paul Malong Awan, while the SPLA claim that it is just another battalion.\n\nThe South Sudan Democratic Movement (SSDM) is a rebel group founded in 2010 by George Athor after he lost a contested election. The group also incorporates and supports other factions as part of a broad coalition of those who complain of neglect by the Dinka dominated SPLA. This notably includes those composed of ethnic minorities such as the Murle people who lead the Cobra faction and the Shilluk people who lead the Upper Nile Faction. In a strategy of co-option known as \"big tent\", the government often buys off community militia and pardons its leaders. Others call the use of rebellion to receive public office as \"bad culture\" and an incentive to rebel.\n\nOn 18 August 2011, an attack in Uror County, northern Jonglei was reportedly launched by Murle tribesmen after armed groups infiltrated into the Peiri and Pulchuol Districts (Payams) at about 5 a.m. The attack is believed to have been a revenge operation against the Lou Nuer tribe after an attack on the Murle the previous June in Pibor County. At least 640 people were killed and the attackers burned down over 3,400 houses and the hospital run by Médecins Sans Frontières. An initial estimate showed that 38,000 heads of cattle were stolen and 208 children were kidnapped.\n\nBy 25 December 2011, the Nuer White Army released a statement stating its intent to \"wipe out the entire Murle tribe on the face of the earth as the only solution to guarantee long-term security of Nuer's cattle\" and attack United Nations and SPLA personnel if they interfered. The United Nations Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS) deployed peacekeepers to Pibor on 30 December in an effort to avert an attack by 6,000 armed Lou Nuer youths. United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and UNMISS head Hilde Johnson called on Lou Nuer and Murle fighters alike to lay down their arms and allow the government of South Sudan to work with them toward a lasting solution to the crisis. Activists, including Minority Rights Group International, warned of genocide in the conflict.\n\nAt 3 pm on 31 December between 3–6,000 Lou Nuer tribesmen attacked a part of Pibor not protected by the UN peacekeepers. Houses were reported to have been set on fire and much of the town, including the airport and main hospital, were occupied. The Lou Nuer were said to have pursued members of the Murle who were fleeing southwards. The South Sudanese government promised to send more army personnel and 2,000 police to the town to reinforce the 800 troops already there. The healthcare charity Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) said that it lost contact with 130 of its staff who were forced to flee into the bush due to the attack. MSF said that a hospital and two outreach clinics were overrun, with some reports stating that the hospital had been set on fire. Looting was said to have taken place at MSF facilities.\n\nBy 2 January, the majority of the Lou Nuer forces were said to have left Pibor and started to move to the southeast with a UN spokesman saying they were \"almost certainly looking for cattle\". The UN said that it had successfully held the main part of Pibor alongside South Sudanese army troops. The UN was advising people in the area to \"disperse into the bush for their safety\". Estimates for the number of displaced ranged up to 50,000, and more than 30 were killed with as many as 80 left injured. The SPLA dispatched 3,000 soldiers and 800 police to support the government's garrison in Pibor. On 5 January, Joshua Konyi, the commissioner of Pibor County and a Murle, estimated that 2,182 women and children and 959 men were killed, 1,293 children were abducted, and 375,186 cows were stolen. The United Nations estimated a total death toll of 900 between December 2011 and February 2012 as a result of the Nuer-Murle clashes, prior to the South Sudanese government's disarmament campaign in March.\n\nA peace deal was signed in May 2012 by representatives of six ethnic communities in Jonglei state.\n\nIn February 2013, an attack by a group of armed Murle youth killed more than 100 civilians and 14 SPLA soldiers.\n\nThe Greater Pibor Forces split off from the Cobra Faction, which had signed a peace agreement with the government. They joined opposition forces and one of their disagreements with the government was the alleged encouragement of the Murle, as a method of divide and rule, to fight against Nuer groups in Jonglei, as some groups such as the Nuer White Army have fought against the government.\n\nOn 15 April 2016, Murle fighters in South Sudan crossed over to the Jikawo and Lare areas of the Gambela Region (which hosts about 300,000 South Sudanese refugees) in Ethiopia and killed at least 208 people, stole 2000 cattle and kidnapped at least 108 women and children from the Nuer tribe. Ethiopian troops killed about 60 gunmen and crossed over the border with the South Sudanese government's permission to track the kidnappers in what some felt is the spilling over of fighting into Ethiopia. By 2017, about 100 children had been retrieved.\n\nIn March 2017, about 1,000 Murle gunmen from Boma State raided the Gambela Region in Ethiopia and abducted 43 children. They were pursued by the Ethiopian military.\n\nDuring the Second Sudanese Civil War, several factions split from the SPLA often along ethnic lines and were funded and armed by Khartoum. The most notable was SPLA-Nasir founded in 1991 by Riek Machar as an attempt by the Nuer to replace John Garang.\n\nThe South Sudan Liberation Movement (SSLA) was formed in 1999 as a Nuer dominated faction in the Civil War.\n\nAs a result of the infighting, more southerners died at each other's hands than were killed by northerners during the war. In the Bor massacre in 1991, an estimated 2000 civilians were killed by SPLA-Nasir and the Nuer White Army and another estimated 25,000 died from the resulting famine in the following years.\n\nIn April 2011, The SSLA, now led by Peter Gadet, announces its formation as a rebel army fighting against the main SPLA forces. In 2011, SSLA clash with tribal cattle herders in Warrap State, south of Abyei. Southern authorities accuse the rebels of being backed by al-Bashir's Khartoum government, and say that the rebels are mobilizing the Misseriya against the SPLA in Unity State. To put down the rebellion, it was alleged that the SPLA set fire to over 7,000 homes in Unity state in May 2011.\n\nIn 2013, after a year of escalating changes in government and in the party, including the dismissal of Vice-President Riek Machar and the entire cabinet in June, fighting between Nuer and Dinka SPLA soldiers broke out in Juba on December, igniting the South Sudanese Civil War. A rebellion rapidly spread around the country, with defected troops loyal to Machar and the SSLA taking over Bentiu, Malakal and Bor.\n\nImmediately after the initial mutiny in Juba, Nuer soldiers, overpowered and on the run, made off toward Terekeka, north of Juba, leaving no Nuer soldiers left in the city. SPLM Dinka troops, led by Lieutenant General Marial Chanuong, were assisted by guides in house to house searches for Nuers in Nuer areas of the Juba. In the Gudele neighborhood, about 200-400 Nuer men were rounded up in to a room in a police station and were shot at through the windows over two days if the soldiers noticed signs of life. There were about 12 survivors. An African Union report cited Nuers being tortured, such as being forced to eat human flesh and blood and to jump into fires. Official death toll has not been released as Human Rights Watch has noted the South Sudan government troops had blocked access and were heavily guarding Gudele and other affected, now abandoned suburbs of Juba. The Guardian report also reported that 21 Nuer youths as well as three women were killed in two other incidents while Human Rights Watch cites eye witness accounts of truck loads of bodies carried to undisclosed site on December 18, 2013. Government officials have not announced a list of the dead or the location of the bodies and have denied knowledge of any killings. Much of the killings were carried out by Mathiang Anyoor. Similar door to door searches of members of the Nuer ethnicity have been reported in the government held capital city of the Upper Nile State, Malakal.\n\nDuring the South Sudanese Civil War, forces identified by the UN as SPLM-IO massacred about 200 mostly non-Nuer civilians in April 2014.\n\nOn 25 April, ethnic tensions between Nuer trainees of the SPLA and Dinka civilians escalated in Mapel, at the time part of Western Bahr el Ghazal, resulting in altercations and murders. In response, Dinka soldiers of the SPLA's 5th Division, led by Bak Akoon Bak, massacred their Nuer comrades at the local training center, killing between 40 to 200 Nuer. The surviving Nuer soldiers fled into the bush, with some joining local SPLM-IO rebels or starting to escape northward. Joined by hundreds of other Nuer deserters from Wau and later Northern Bahr el Ghazal, the Nuer deserters marched all the way to Sudan to escape ethnic prosecution and loyalist SPLA forces.\n\nAs early as 1963, during the First Sudanese Civil War, Khartoum began arming the Murle tribe, traditional enemies of both Dinka and Nuer, to fight the southern rebellion. Sometimes, whole tribal territories became affiliated with one side or the other, and the vicious north-south war became a defining factor in relations between tribes, infusing old hostilities with a new, political dimension. With the peace deal in 2005, tribal militias chose to either be absorbed into the SPLA or head north and join the armed forces there. Most chose to join their former SPLA enemies as a matter of survival. Others, like fighters from the Murle tribe, chose to join the northern army. Today, there are many Murle army officers in Khartoum, and they say the tribe is being punished for that.\n\nDavid Yau Yau, led a Murle dominated faction of the South Sudan Democratic Movement (SSDM) known as the Cobra faction against the government in 2010. He signed a ceasefire with the GoSS in June 2011, which integrated him and his militia with the SPLA. However, he defected again in April 2012 citing SPLA abuses in Pibor county in the March–October 2012 disarmament campaign that followed the Murle-Nuer clashes, called Operation Restore Hope. He now claimed to be fighting for a separate state for the Murle. During the Civil War in January 2014, the government signed a peace agreement called the Greater Pibor Administrative Area peace agreement with the Cobra Faction which created in May that year the semi-autonomous area called the Greater Pibor Administrative Area (GPAA) to increase the minority populations within its borders and David Yau Yau was appointed chief administrator, equivalent to state governor. Not all Cobra faction general were satisfied and a splinter group called the Greater Pibor Forces formed alleging that the SPLM were inciting the Murle to attack the Lou Nuer as a form of divide and rule. Further, on Christmas Eve 2015, Salvar Kiir announced an increase in the number of states from 10 to 28 and then, five days later, swore in all new governors appointed by him. The new borders give Kiir's Dinkas a majority in strategic locations. This replaced the GPAA with Boma State and replaced Yau Yau with Baba Medan Konya, angering the Cobra faction. In September 2016, the Cobra faction, now led by Khalid Boutros declared war against the government but in March 2017, Boutros dissolved the faction to incorporate it into the broader faction of the National Salvation Front led by Thomas Cirillo.\n\nCattle raids between Dinka from the Dinka majority Jonglei state and the Murle from the Murle majority Boma State led to a peace agreement between both states on 5 December 2016 and to the formation of a joint police force recruited from the states of Jonglei, Boma and Bieh. However attacks across states continued. In March, armed youth and soldiers from Jonglei state attacked and captured Kotchar, in Boma state. Boma state officials, as well as Khalid Boutros of the Cobra faction, accuse the SPLA of supporting the attacks on Boma state. In November 2017, Murle gunmen attacked a Dinka village of Duk Payuel county in Jonglei, killing 45 people and abducting about 60 women and children.\n\nMany from the Shilluk people contend that the Dinka as well as the Dinka and Nuer soldiers from the Sudan People's Liberation Army committed abuses in an attempt to disarm them in the summer of 2010. The SPLA burned scores of villages, raped hundreds of women and girls and killed an untold number of civilians in the Shilluk Kingdom. Over 10,000 people were displaced in the midst of the rainy season and sent fleeing into the forest, often naked, without bedding, shelter or food, with many children dying from hunger and cold. Civilians alleging torture by the SPLA claim fingernails being torn out, burning plastic bags dripped on children to make their parents hand over weapons and villagers burned alive in their huts if rebels were suspected of spending the night there. The United Nations Human Rights Council reported many of these violations, and the frustrated director of one Juba-based international aid agency called them \"human rights abuses off the Richter scale\".\n\nJohn Uliny from the Shilluk people lead the Upper Nile faction of the South Sudan Democratic Movement in rebellion. In March 2011, in clashes between the Uliny's Upper Nile faction and the SPLA North of Malakal, the SSDM claimed that the SPLA killed 168 civilians and named six villages that the SPLA burned down. Human Rights Watch later confirmed that over 60 ethnic Shilluk were killed, and more than 7,000 displaced. The official United Nations report counted 62 dead, 70 injured and 7,625 displaced, but how many people were actually killed is unknown. During the civil war, in February 2016, 18 people were killed, including two Médecins Sans Frontières staff, in fighting between Shilluk and Dinka youths at a \"protection of civilian\" (POC) site, which are often divided by ethnic groups to prevent fighting.\n\nUliny entered into peace talks and accepted an amnesty by the government in 2013. However, during the civil war, after Kiir's floated the idea of carving new states which would give Kiir's Dinkas strong majorities and which the Shilluk felt would carve up their homeland, Uliny switched sides to fight with SPLO-IO in April 2015. His forces were now known as the \"Agwelek\" army. On 16 May 2015, the Agwelek forces and elements of the SPLM-IO captured Upper Nile's capital, Malakal, as well as Anakdiar and areas around Fashoda. The group said they want to run their affairs independently from others in Upper Nile State, and SPLM-IO backed away from claims that it is in charge of Olony's group and stated that Olony's interests simply coincides with theirs. SPLM-IO said they understood the feeling from the Shilluk community that they wanted a level of independence and that that was the reason the SPLM-IO last year created Fashoda state for the Shilluk kingdom and appointed Tijwog Aguet, a Shilluk, as governor.\n\nAs the predominantly Shilluk Agwelek forces joined, in July 2016, with the SPLM-IO, which entered the peace agreement with the government, some Shilluk felt dissatisfied. After the establishment of the new states, a new group made up of mostly Shilluk formed the \"Tiger Faction New Forces\" (TFNF), led by General Yoanes Okij, alleging that the new states gives power over Shilluk lands to the Dinka. They rejected joining the SPLM-IO or the peace agreement and called for the restoration of the original 1956 borders of the Shilluk territories. In September 2016, Shilluk politician Lam Akol, leader of the largest opposition party, Democratic Change, announced a new faction called the National Democratic Movement (NDM) to overthrow Kiir. Yohanis Okiech then joined the predominantly Shilluk NDM as deputy chief of general staff. In January 2017, Olony's forces working for SPLM-IO ambushed and killed Yohanis Okiech.\n\nIn the Upper Nile region, much of the fighting in 2016-17 was between the SPLA and the SPLA-IO allied Upper Nile faction of Uliny. During this fighting, Shilluk in Wau Shilluk were forced from their homes and Yasmin Sooka, chairwoman of the Commission on Human Rights in South Sudan, claimed that the government was engaging in \"social engineering\" after it transported 2,000 mostly Dinka people to the abandoned areas. The king of the Shilluk Kingdom, Kwongo Dak Padiet, claimed his people were at risk of physical and cultural extinction. He claimed the SPLA razed down several villages and that his lawyers were preparing a case before the International Criminal Court against senior SPLA staff and members of the Jieng Council of Elders.\n\nDuring the Second Sudanese Civil War, many from the Fertit, which refers to the various Bantu groups in the Bahr el Ghazal region such as the Banda and Binga, fought on behalf of the central government in Khartoum against the SPLA. Fertit militias often attacked Dinka civilians, with the police force in Wau, composed of Dinkas, fighting for the Dinka.\n\nAnother group traditionally inhabiting the Bahr El Ghazal are the Jur people. In March 2011, a clash between Dinka pastoralists of Lakes State and Jur farmers from Western Equatoria over land issues left 7 people dead and 5 injured. This happened following a similar clash over pasture that killed 10 people the previous month. The two communities signed a memorandum of understanding in September 2011.\n\nIn 2016, about a year after the Compromise Peace Agreement was signed, groups of ethnic Dinka youth and the SPLA targeted members of the Fertit in Wau, killing dozens and forcing more than 120,000 to flee their homes.\n\nIn April 2017, Mathiang Anyoor led by General Thayip Gatluak attacked Wau, targeting Jur and Fertit people, killing at least 18 people.\n\nAfter the Compromise Peace Agreement, some observers felt that the government was holding on to the peace deal to maintain international aid while backing campaigns to increase Dinka control over land and resources traditionally held by other groups. In Western Equatoria, after Dinka cattle herders, allegedly backed by the SPLA, occupied farmland, Zande youth rose up into armed groups, notably the Arrow Boys. A new rebel faction calling itself the South Sudan Federal Democratic Party (different from but related to the larger similarly named rebel faction led by Peter Gadet, Gabriel Chang and Gathoth Gatkuoth), made up mostly of Lotuko people formed during this time due to growing perceptions of mistreatment by the \"Dinka\" government and took over a SPLA outpost in Eastern Equatoria.\n\nFor most of the South Sudanese Civil War, the fighting was focused in the Greater Upper Nile region. After the clashes in Juba in 2016, the fighting spread to the previously safe haven of Equatoria, where the bulk of SPLM-IO forces went for shelter. Accounts point to both sides targeting civilians on ethnic lines between the Dinka and the dozens of ethnic groups among the Equatorians who are historically in conflict with the Dinka, such as the Karo, who include the Bari. Witnesses report Dinka soldiers threatening villagers that they will kill all Kakwa, another Karo people, for their alleged support to Machar and killing Pojulu people while sparing those who they find can speak Dinka. Much of the atrocities in around Yei are blamed on Mathiang Anyoor. A UN investigation said rape was being used a tool of ethnic cleansing and Adama Dieng, the U.N.'s Special Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide, warned of genocide after visiting areas of fighting in Yei. On 4 April 2017, a pro-government militia reportedly led by Major Gen. Gildo Oling attacked mostly Acholis in Pajok and SPLA-IO claimed 200 civilians were killed.\n\nMany of the self-defense factions formed among the Equatorians have targeted Dinka civilians, including in one case where a convoy of commercial vehicles along the Juba-Yei road was stopped and separated into Dinka and non-Dinka and the Dinka were executed, with up to 21 people killed. Among the refugees fleeing the violence are a few Dinkas as well and they faced violence among Equatorians in the refugee camps as retribution. Ugandan authorities often house Dinka refugees separately to minimize violence.\n\nIn January 2011, clashes between nomadic Misseriya Arabs and the Dinka people killed 'dozens' in Abyei preceding the independence referendum. A source of tension was reportedly the delay in holding a separate referendum for the Abyei region. The Dinkas largely supported South Sudan's independence during the Second Sudanese Civil War. In February,at a market in Abyei, three people are killed and 300 sought refuge in a United Nations (UNMIS) mission compound. In the same month, in Todach, Abyei, ten people died when armed militias stormed a police post. Southern Sudan officials reported some of the attackers were Misseriya, but claimed the attack itself was connected to a Khartoum government-sponsored militia. In March, another militia attack in an Abyei town kills 30 people, as militia burned hundreds of dwellings and close to 25,000 people flee the town in Abyei, migrating south. The United Nations then sent in 100 peacekeepers. The armed forces of northern and southern Sudan deployed heavy weapons to the region. In April, Sudan's president, Omar al-Bashir, issued a statement saying he will not accept South Sudan's independence as voted in the January referendum unless the north takes control over the oil-rich Abyei region. A draft proposal from the south claims Abyei. In May, Sudan's tanks enter Abyei, in an attempt to clear out southern forces. The UN, US and UK condemn this move. By the end of the month, the African Union discloses a tentative agreement is reached, establishing a preliminary 20-kilometre ceasefire line and demilitarized region in Abyei. By June, the UN reports that 146,000 people had been displaced in the Abyei region, on the disputed border zone.\n\nIn March 2011, an armed clash over a land dispute in Twic East County, Jonglei between members of the Ayuel and Dachuek Dinka, killed 22 people, including one SPLA officer.\n\nIn 2015, more than 70 people were killed in the Apuk and Aguok clans and 2,000 cattle were used as compensation for the victims. In June 2017, 38 people were killed in Gogrial State in fighting between Apuk and Aguok over border disputes.\n\nIn 2017, in Malek County in the Great Lakes Region, clashes between Ruop and Pakam clans killed at least 170 according to government officials, with 342 houses burnt and 1,800 people displaced.\n\nDuring the Second Sudanese Civil War, The Luo Nuer and the Jikany Nuer were in open conflict, particular around Nasir in Nasir County, from the SPLA split in 1994 to around the end of the war in 2004.\n\nDuring the South Sudanese Civil War, the Nuer dominated South Sudan Liberation Army, led by Mathew Pul Jang, sided with the government and helped take back Bentiu in December 2013.\n\nThe Dinka dominated SPLA recruited militias and young men from the Jikany Nuer and Bul Nuer in Unity state to take back areas held by the Nuer dominated SPLM-IO.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41546847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41546847", "title": "Hip Hop World Magazine", "text": "Hip Hop World Magazine\n\nHip Hop World Magazine is a weekly Nigerian music magazine established in 1995. It has sponsored The Headies award since the award's inception in 2006. The magazine's publisher is Nigerian journalist and music promoter Ayo Animashaun.\n"}
{"id": "4440843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4440843", "title": "Illuminares", "text": "Illuminares\n\nIlluminares is an annual lantern festival held every summer in John Hendry Park (also known as Trout Lake Park) in east Vancouver. In 2010, the festival moved to Canada Place, but the 2012 festival returned to John Hendry Park. The event is put on by the Public Dreams Society, a group formed in 1985 to encourage community events. \"Illuminares\" is a mixture of events put on by the society, such as fire-breathers and bands, and participants bringing their own homemade lanterns. Local artists run lantern making workshops to help people make their own personalized lantern. The festival is paid for through corporate and community sponsors, government grants as well as donations from participants at the event.\n\nWhile it began as a small community festival, \"Illuminares\" has quickly grown into one of the most popular events in Vancouver. About 30,000 people come to this event each year. The number of people coming to this even grows exponentially every year. Illuminares happens on the last Saturday of July each year.\n\nPublic Dreams also participates in several other events in the Greater Vancouver area. These include the North Shore's Wild Lights Lantern Festival, held in Edgemont Village, and the Parade of the Lost Souls, a parade through Vancouver's Commercial Drive area around Halloween.\n\n"}
{"id": "45402495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45402495", "title": "International Conference on Mechanical Industrial &amp; Energy Engineering", "text": "International Conference on Mechanical Industrial &amp; Energy Engineering\n\nInternational Conference on Mechanical Industrial & Energy Engineering (ICMIEE) is held in Bangladesh every alternate 2 years starting from 2010. The objective of ICMIEE is to present the latest research and results of scientists and Researchers. The conference provides opportunities for different areas' delegates to exchange new ideas and applications experiences face to face to establish research relationships.\n\nTechnological development can be enhanced through continuous research. The Faculty of Mechanical Engineering, Khulna University of Engineering & Technology organizes International Conference on Mechanical, Industrial and Energy Engineering (ICMIEE). It brings great opportunities for both researchers and industrial communities to meet, discuss and share their research outcomes. This helps develop a bridge among the researchers and the experts of the industry. This conference aims to provide a common platform for the participants throughout the world to exchange their views and share the ideas in the vast field of Mechanical, Industrial and Energy Engineering.\n\n"}
{"id": "52919691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52919691", "title": "Jack Livesey (impostor)", "text": "Jack Livesey (impostor)\n\nJohn \"Jack\" Livesey (born 15 May 1954) is a British military imposter who posed as a decorated war hero; in actuality he served in the army as a cook for three years. His fabricated military record included twenty years in the Parachute Regiment, fighting with the 2nd Battalion in the Falklands War, serving five tours of duty in Northern Ireland, receiving the Military Medal and reaching the rank of Colour Sergeant. He has worked as a historian, author, consultant, lecturer and battlefield tour guide on the basis of his alleged military experience.\n\nJack Livesey served as a chef in the Army Catering Corps from 1971 until 1974, when he was discharged following a mental breakdown. Livesey admitted that he created a 'fantasy world' to compensate for his early discharge from the army: 'I built this fictional guy up which was better than admitting the failure that was my military career […] It wasn’t the best way to end your military career. It was going to be my dream – the Army was a wonderful life and I screwed it up and created this fantasy'.\n\nLivesey was featured as a military historian in the documentary \"Death and Destruction in the Falaise Gap\" and on the History Channel series \"Battlefield Detectives\". He worked as a historical adviser on the 2005 BBC documentary series \"D-Day to Berlin\" and the 2006 movie \"Flyboys\". He claimed to have also advised production crews, uncredited, on the miniseries \"Band of Brothers\" and the movie \"Saving Private Ryan\".\n\nLivesey authored books of military non-fiction, three which were co-written by George Forty, a well-known author and a former curator of the Tank Museum.\n\nLivesey worked at the Imperial War Museum Duxford for seven years, first as a volunteer and later as a collections assistant, until he resigned in 2006.\n\nIn 2004 Jack Livesey was convicted of benefit fraud for receiving nearly £30,000 in incapacity benefit while he was employed at the Imperial War Museum. He was sentenced to a suspended twelve-month jail term due to his supposed military service, and character references submitted by veterans including Air Commodore Peter Thorne and Major Gordon Corrigan, who knew Livesey and believed him to be a war hero.\n\nLivesey was exposed as an impostor when investigations following his conviction found that the references submitted by the veterans were based on false claims that Livesey had made to them. He was subsequently charged with perverting the course of justice by police, and admitted to lying about his army career, but denied he was aware the references were submitted. His partner, Bridget Pollard, testified that she had compiled the references.\n\nIn mitigation, Livesey's attorney stated that his client had been diagnosed with dependent and histrionic personality disorder, and argued these disorders impaired his client's ability to tell fact from fiction. Livesey was found guilty, sentenced to three years in jail and was ordered to pay £3,500 in prosecution costs. He filed on appeal on the grounds that his sentence was excessive. The appeal was denied.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15805", "title": "June 10", "text": "June 10\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40255049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40255049", "title": "Kagerou Project", "text": "Kagerou Project\n\nThe , also known as or \"Kagerou Days\", is a Japanese mixed-media project. It started as a Vocaloid song series created by . The story revolves around the Mekakushi Dan, a group of young people with unusual eye-related powers.\n\nThe series became popular on the video sharing website Niconico after the release of the music video and song for \"Kagerou Daze\", which primarily featured character Hibiya Amamiya (supporting character Hiyori Asahina referred to only in the song's lyrics), also gave the series its name. The song has amassed over 3 million views and is the most popular song of the project. Seven light novels have been released, written by Jin and illustrated by . A manga adaptation with illustrations by , began serialization in \"Monthly Comic Gene\" on June 15, 2012, also written by Jin. A 12-episode anime adaptation titled —\"Mekakucity\" being a portmanteau of \"mekakushi\" (\"blindfold\" in Japanese) and \"city\"—aired between April 12 and June 28, 2014. The series was directed by Akiyuki Shinbo and animated by Shaft, with the script also written completely by Jin.\n\nIn the novels and anime, Shintarō Kisaragi of \"Kashiwa City\", Japan is an 18-year-old hiki-NEET who has not left his room in two years, engrossing himself with his computer and the internet. However, on August 14, due to the messing about of the cyber girl Ene, who lives inside his computer, Shintarō spills soda on his computer keyboard and is forced to go outside to buy a new one, due to the fact that during the Obon festival none of the stores will deliver until August 17. (In the manga's second alternate storyline, he goes to buy food for his female pet rabbit; Tono.) Shintarō goes to the department store, where a group of criminals break in and hold the people inside hostage for ransom. Here he comes in contact with a group of people calling themselves the , who stop the robbery with their mysterious eye powers and \"force\" Shintarō to join into their group.\n\nBefore this occurs, in the novel and anime, Shintarō's younger sister, Momo Kisaragi, is a popular idol and first-year high school student who has the ability to attract people's attention. This is due to the \"Drawing Eyes\" ability, which she cannot control and causes people to look at her wherever she goes. One day, while fleeing from a horde of fans, she meets the Mekakushi Dan leader, Tsubomi Kido, who invites Momo to join, which she does. In the manga adaptation, however, events take different turns.\n\nIn the novels and anime, while meeting the first four members of the Mekakushi Dan, Marry trips and gets Momo's phone wet, and the Mekakushi Dan all go to the department store to buy a new phone for Momo. Kido uses her ability to keep people from staring at Momo, but while in the store, they find out Shintarō is there at the same time. The terrorists break in and take all the shoppers hostage, but with Kido's eye power, she, Momo, Marry, Seto, and Kano are invisible and thus do not get caught. They work together to stop the heist, though Shintarō passes out, and they bring him to their hideout and introduce him and Ene as members once the former awakens. Afterwards, they all go to the amusement park to have fun. However, further events begin to unfold.\n\nThe prologue for the novels' storyline is told in the second novel, \"-a headphone actor-\". Takane Enomoto and Haruka Kokonose, students of Kenjirō Tateyama, plan a class booth for their school's cultural festival. Haruka gets an idea to host a shooting booth; however this idea could not be fulfilled due to Kenjirō spending all their booth funds on a rare specimen. Takane, being a highly skilled gamer, decides that instead of a shooting booth with a large amount of equipment, they should make a video game of a first-person shooter. Kenjirō would be in charge of programming, Haruka was in charge of illustration and Takane was responsible for playing as the opponent. Their plan captured a great amount of attention, good and bad.\n\nThe series contains alternative storylines, endings (and in some cases, beginnings) depending on the format of the media, called \"routes\".\n\n\nVarious other (including smaller or shorter) \"timelines\" are also contained within major \"routes\" or other side materials. These are all indicated in detail in the \"Kagerou Project Perfect Guide\" (2016). While many \"timelines\" occur between the dates of August 14–15 (and in some cases a short time beyond, such as August 17, among other dates) some \"timelines\"'s initial storylines are indicated to happen before the \"main\" series begins. This often involves the backstories of the \"trio\" of Kido, Kano, and Seto and their encounters, on their own or otherwise, and notably involving supporting characters Ayano Tateyama, and Mekakushi Dan member Marry Kozakura (notably detailing her meeting with character Seto). Yet more timelines occur detailing Marry's own backstory, and events that happen long before that; also indicated by which timeline, or \"August 15th\" (among similar close dates) is referred to.\n\nThe series began as a series of albums that were released alongside the novels. The soundtracks were produced by Jin and released by IA Project. The first album is titled and was released on May 30, 2012. It was followed by a single, , on August 15, 2012. A second album titled was released on May 29, 2013. A third album titled was announced on August 15, 2017 and was released November 7, 2018.\n\nThe \"Kagerou Daze\" light novels are written by Jin with illustrations from \"Kagerou Project\" music video maker Sidu. The first volume was released on May 30, 2012 by Enterbrain on their KCG Bunko imprint, and will conclude in the eighth volume on December 29, 2017. Yen Press has been releasing the novels in English in North America since May 26, 2015.\n\nThere is an anthology series called that is made up of short stories from a Pixiv contest.\n\nThere is a novel anthology series named made from other Pixiv competitions.\n\nThe \"Kagerou Daze \" manga is illustrated by Mahiro Satou. It began serialization in Media Factory's \"Monthly Comic Gene\" on June 15, 2012. The first \"tankōbon\" volume was released on November 27, 2012; ten volumes have been released as of October 27, 2017. Yen Press will release the manga in English in North America, with the first volume released on April 21, 2015.\n\nThere is also an ongoing anthology series called and each volume goes with a certain theme. It is written and illustrated by various people including \"Kagerou Daze\" light novel artist and music video creator Sidu, the \"Kagerou Daze\" manga artist Mahiro Satou, and \"Kagerou Project\" music video creator .\n\nA \"Kagerou Project\" anime titled , directed by Akiyuki Shinbo and produced by Shaft, began airing on April 12, 2014. The anime has been licensed for streaming by Aniplex of America. The opening theme is \"Daze\" sung by Maria from Garnidelia and the ending theme is \"Days\" by Lia. For episode six, the opening theme is and the ending theme is ; both songs are sung by LiSA. For episode eight, the ending theme is sung by Kōta Matsuyama from Byee the Round. For episode nine, the opening theme is sung by Aki Okui. All songs are composed by Jin.\n\nA \"Kagerou Project\" short anime film titled was directed by Sidu and produced by Studio Jumonji. It was produced with MX4D presentation in mind and premiered on November 4, 2016. The opening theme is \"Red\" by Gouache, a band Jin is a part of.\n\nA \"Kagerou Project\" anime titled was announced at the Seek at Mekakucity event on August 15, 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "28249741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28249741", "title": "Kammeroper Schloss Rheinsberg", "text": "Kammeroper Schloss Rheinsberg\n\nKammeroper Schloss Rheinsberg is an international opera festival for young talented singers, founded and directed by German composer Siegfried Matthus. It takes place every summer at the historical Rheinsberg Castle, in Brandenburg (Germany). The festival presents the winners of the \"International Singing Competition Schloss Rheinsberg\", in which about 450 candidates from all over the world participate every year.\n\nThe Chamber Opera Schloss Rheinsberg Festival was founded in 1990 by Siegfried Matthus, who also composed the opening opera: \"Die Weise von Liebe und Tod des Cornets Christoph Rilke\". In the last 20 years there have been more than 70 opera and concert productions. Experienced, renowned conductors and directors work with the young singers on opera roles under professional conditions and support the festival as members of the committee. Conductors have included Daniel Barenboim, Kurt Masur and Christian Thielemann, and directors have included Götz Friedrich, August Everding, Harry Kupfer and Axel Köhler, among many others. \n\nThe Festival has no orchestra of his own, but collaborates with many well-known German orchestras: RIAS Symphony Orchestra, Junge Philharmonie Brandenburg, Neubranbenburger Philharmonie, , Brandenburgische Philharmonie Potsdam, Rundfunkchor Berlin, Brandenburger Symphoniker, Braunschweig State Orchestra.\n\nIn 2000 the completely restored Castle Theater (\"Schlosstheater\") opened its doors to the public. The Rheinsberg Opera Festival also has a rarity among theaters - the 18th century Garden Theater (\"Heckentheater\"), with capacity for 1000 spectators in a total area of 750 m. The Opera Festival also uses rooms in Rheinsberg Castle for many concerts during the summer festival season.\n\nSiegfried Matthus has been the Artistic Director of the Chamber Opera Schloss Rheinsberg since 1990, Claudia Eder is the Voice Advisor and Rainer Schwarz the Festival Manager and Executive Director. The Festival includes opera productions in both Castle and Garden Theaters, and many thematic concerts and masterclasses.\n\nThe Chamber Opera Schloss Rheinsberg organises every year in Berlin the \"International Singing Competition Kammeroper Schloss Rheinsberg\", in which over 450 candidates from all over the world participate. The winners of the competition then have the chance to perform various different roles required for the opera productions. Thus the singers of the festival are the chosen elite of young singers worldwide, and thousands of classical music fans travel to Rheinsberg to hear their young voices. Many highly talented young singers started a successful career through their appearance at the Rheinsberg festival. Singers who have started in Rheinsberg can be heard at the New York Metropolitan Opera, La Scala, Salzburg Festival, other various international opera houses such as Royal Swedish Opera in Stockholm, Tokyo Opera House, Vienna State Opera, Sydney Opera House, Zürich Opera House and most German opera houses. \n\nSome of the former winners of the Chamber Opera Schloss Rheinsberg:\nClaudia Barainsky (1991); Nina Warren (1991); Andreas Karasiak (1992, 1993); Friedemann Röhlig (1998); Camilla Tilling (1998); Boguslaw Bidzinski (1999, 2000); Kristiane Kaiser (1999)\nAnnette Dasch (2000 and 2001); Aris Argiris (2002); Marco Jentzsch (2003, 2004); Hyung-Wook Lee (2004); Gabriela Scherer (2005); Ines Thomas Almeida (2008)\n\n"}
{"id": "51220571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51220571", "title": "Khizr and Ghazala Khan", "text": "Khizr and Ghazala Khan\n\nKhizr Muazzam Khan (born 1950) and Ghazala Khan (born 1951) are the Pakistani American parents of United States Army Captain Humayun Khan, who was killed in 2004 during the Iraq War. The couple received international attention following a speech at the 2016 Democratic National Convention that criticized Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump.\n\nKhizr Khan was born in 1950, the eldest of ten children, to poultry farming parents in Gujranwala, a city in Pakistan's Punjab Province. Ghazala is also from Punjab, born in 1951 in Faisalabad. The couple met while attending the University of Punjab, where Ghazala studied Persian and Khizr pursued an LL.B. in the Law College. Khizr passed the Punjab bar in 1974. Once married, the couple moved to Dubai in the United Arab Emirates to earn money to move to the United States. Two of their sons, Shaharyar and Humayun, were born in Dubai.\n\nThey moved from the UAE to the United States in 1980. Their first home in the US was in Houston, Texas, where the family stayed while Khizr went to receive LL.M. degrees from the University of Missouri Law School in 1982 and Harvard Law School in 1986. In 1986 they also became American citizens. Khizr, Ghazala, and their two sons then moved to Silver Spring, Maryland, where their third son, Omer, was born.\n\nKhizr went on to work at the Washington, D.C., office of the law firm of Hogan & Hartson, one of the largest lobbying firms in the United States, where he was employed as the firm's manager of litigation technology from 2000 to 2007.\n\nTheir middle child, Humayun, attended the University of Virginia, where he became a cadet in its Army ROTC program. Upon graduating in 2000, he was commissioned in the Army as a way to earn money for law school and because, according to Khizr, Humayun \"felt that ROTC had completed him as a person, and he wanted to give back.\" He rose to the rank of captain and served in Iraq during the Iraq War. In 2004, at the age of 27, Humayun was killed in Baqubah, Iraq, in an explosion. He was inspecting a guard post when he saw a suspicious vehicle approaching. Ordering his subordinates to stay back, he stepped forward to engage. The car was later determined to have been carrying more than 200 pounds of explosives, and when it detonated he was killed along with the two suicide attackers. He was posthumously awarded the Bronze Star Medal and Purple Heart and is interred at Arlington National Cemetery.\n\nFollowing Humayun's death, the Khans moved to Charlottesville, Virginia, to be closer to their other sons. Ghazala began working at a fabric store and Khizr continued his legal consulting, working in commercial law and specializing in electronic discovery. They became heavily involved with the University of Virginia ROTC program, where Humayun had been a cadet, and became known as the \"mom and pop of the department\".\n\nIn 2008, the Khans participated in an HBO documentary, \"Section 60: Arlington National Cemetery\", featuring visitors to the section of Arlington National Cemetery where their son, and many other United States military personnel who died in the Iraq and Afghanistan conflicts, are buried.\n\nThe Khans were not publicly political prior to 2015. In the 1980s, Khizr was a strong supporter of Ronald Reagan, but in 2015 he had a strong negative reaction to then-candidate Donald Trump's speech promoting the idea of banning Muslims from entering the country. He gave an interview on the subject to a reporter for \"Vocativ\", published in December 2015. Many of Khizr's speeches and writings focus on United States founding documents, and in particular the Constitution. He was introduced to them as a law student in Pakistan, and found them both profound and thought-provoking. Starting in 2005, Khizr began carrying pocket constitutions with him, which he would read from and give to University of Virginia ROTC cadets.\n\nPrior to the 2016 Democratic National Convention, Hillary Clinton's campaign reached out to the Khans about speaking at the event. The couple deliberated and eventually agreed, believing it to be what Humayun would have done, despite protests from their other sons that it would make them targets for criticism. In planning for the speech, Ghazala opted not to speak on stage, worried that she would not be able to maintain her composure if a picture of her son were with them.\n\nOn July 28, the final day of the convention, Khizr, accompanied by Ghazala, gave a speech about Humayun, during which he harshly criticized Republican nominee for president, Donald Trump. Khan took issue with several of Trump's policies, including his proposed ban on migration from a list of majority-Muslim countries. Many news outlets focused on two passages from the speech in particular:\n\nWhen Khizr offered to lend Trump his copy of the Constitution, he pulled a small version of the document from his pocket, holding it up and gesturing with it, in what the \"Washington Post\" called it the most memorable image from the convention. Khan said afterwards that the gesture was unplanned, and that he ad-libbed the sentence about lending Trump his copy upon realizing he had it in his pocket. According to the \"New York Times\", Khan has long kept a supply of pocket Constitutions in his home, carrying one around and distributing copies to visitors \"the way other hosts might distribute a party favor.\" Following the speech, sales of pocket Constitutions soared, with one 2005 edition rising to the second position on Amazon.com's bestsellers list. The ACLU offered free copies through their website until Election Day (November 8, 2016), but public demand (reportedly over 100,000) exhausted their supply within days. The ACLU also offered an \"I'll gladly lend you mine\" graphic tee shirt. A year later, \"The Guardian\" Simon Hattenstone called it \"a defining image\" of the election, which \"remains the most eloquent response to Trump's bigotry.\"\n\n\"New York\" magazine's Andrew Sullivan declared the speech \"the fulcrum of this election,\" and one minute after it had ended, a spike in searches for \"register to vote\" was seen on Google.\n\nIn an interview with ABC News, George Stephanopoulos asked Trump about the content of the speech, asking him to respond to the charge that he had not made sacrifices. Trump began by suggesting that Hillary Clinton's campaign staff had written the speech (according to Khizr, they wrote it themselves), and said, \"I think I've made a lot of sacrifices ... I've created thousands and thousands of jobs, tens of thousands of jobs, built great structures. I've had tremendous success. I think I've done a lot.\" He went on to describe financial help he has provided for veterans' causes. Trump also remarked on Ghazala's presence on stage, implying a connection between her silence and gender roles in Islam: \"If you look at his wife, she was standing there. She had nothing to say. She probably — maybe she wasn't allowed to have anything to say. You tell me.\"\n\nDirectly responding to Trump's comments, Ghazala wrote an op-ed in \"The Washington Post\", saying that Trump is ignorant with regard to Islam and its relationship to terrorism, and explaining that while she was asked if she wanted to speak, she felt she would be too upset to do so. In an interview on \"Morning Joe\" the day after the op-ed was published, she added that \"All Muslim women have very strong opinions ... we are not from that type of culture that we will just have to follow the husband.\"\n\nTrump's comments sparked widespread outrage and condemnation from both Democrats and Republicans, and were widely reported in the press. Prominently, Republican Senator John McCain of Arizona, who Khizr says was a hero to Humayun, issued a statement about what he called his \"most severe disagreement\" with Trump, saying \"While our party has bestowed upon him the nomination, it is not accompanied by unfettered license to defame those who are the best among us.\" In a \"Washington Post\" op-ed, Republican Senator Susan Collins of Maine cited Trump's treatment of the Khans as one of the major reasons why she \"will not be voting for Donald Trump for president.\"\n\nMuslim American women took to social media with the hashtag \"#CanYouHearUsNow\" to protest Trump's comments. The organization Veterans of Foreign Wars issued a statement saying, \"Election year or not, the VFW will not tolerate anyone berating a Gold Star family member for exercising his or her right of speech or expression.\" Paul Rieckhoff of the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America said that Trump's comparison of his own sacrifice to families who lost family members in war was \"insulting, foolish and ignorant.\" The Jewish War Veterans of the United States said that Trump was worthy of \"contempt\" and said that his remarks on Ghazala Khan were \"vile beyond words.\" An open letter by 23 Gold Star families called upon Trump to apologize to the Khans.\n\nOn August 4, a group of protesters at a Trump rally in Portland, Maine, were ejected after standing among the seated attendees and silently holding up pocket Constitutions.\n\nOn August 5, Khizr told Anderson Cooper that he and his wife were withdrawing from further TV appearances because it was emotionally draining, but said they would not be silent. On September 3, the Khans were special guests at the Islamic Society of North America convention in Rosemont, Illinois, where they both spoke. They did not address the election, other than Ghazala joking, \"I have to speak today.\"\n\nKhizr made one other high-profile appearance before the election on October 21, 2016, when the Hillary Clinton campaign released a 60-second television ad featuring Khizr Khan at home, showing the viewer pictures and mementos while telling the story of Humayun's sacrifice, and his voice wells up as he concludes, \"I want to ask Mr. Trump: Would my son have a place in your America?\" In the final weeks of the election, Khizr joined Hillary Clinton on the campaign trail in Virginia.\n\nAfter Trump's Electoral College victory in the presidential election, in response to his announced nominations for cabinet positions before the inauguration, Khizr Khan urged the Senate Judiciary Committee to reject Senator Jeff Sessions as Attorney General, pointing out the Senate's rejection of Sessions in 1986 for a federal judgeship over racism concerns, and adding that Sessions \"does not understand patriotic dissent.\" Khizr also voiced opposition against Trump's travel ban on seven Muslim-majority countries, threatening an anti-Trump boycott if the ban was not repealed.\n\nOn March 5, 2017, Khan canceled a planned speaking engagement in Toronto and said he had been told that his travel privileges were being reviewed. His Facebook announcement said, \"This turn of events is not just of deep concern to me but to all my fellow Americans who cherish our freedom to travel abroad. I have not been given any reason as to why.\" Camielle Edwards, spokeswoman for Canada's Immigration Minister Ahmed Hussen, said, \"We are unaware of any restrictions regarding this traveler.\" Khan later said that he \"did not want to go through the hassle of uncertain rules and capricious implementation\" at the border.\n\nKhizr published a memoir in October 2017 entitled \"An American Family: A Memoir of Hope and Sacrifice\", published by Random House. Simon Hattenstone wrote in \"The Guardian\" that while \"it tells the story of the Khan family ... it is also a universal story of migration - struggle, hope and achievement\". In the \"New York Times Book Review\", Linda Chavez said it \"can teach all of us what real American patriotism looks like\" and called it \"a wonderful refutation of Trump's nativism and bigotry\" without becoming a \"partisan polemic\". Alyssa Rosenberg wrote in \"The Washington Post\" that the memoir is \"a small but lovely immigrant's journey\" which successfully avoids \"Trump outbursts\". She went on to say that \"Khizr Khan is probably a better American than I am. But it's a strength of his book that I felt inspired, rather than condemned, by that conclusion.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2547347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2547347", "title": "Kodee Kennings", "text": "Kodee Kennings\n\nKodee Kennings is the name given to a fictitious 8-year-old girl, supposedly the daughter of a U.S. Army soldier named Dan Kennings in post-invasion Iraq. Kodee's plight was detailed in letters published in the \"Daily Egyptian\", a student newspaper for Southern Illinois University in Carbondale, Illinois, beginning in 2003.\n\nThe story was concocted by Jaimie Reynolds, a woman who claimed to be Colleen Hastings, caregiver of the fictional Kodee. Reynolds allegedly passed a letter supposedly written by \"Kodee,\" to Michael Brenner, who was then a sports editor at the \"Egyptian\" which prompted a feature story published May 6, 2003. In the article, \"Kodee\" told how upset she was by an anti-war protest at the university campus, and of her worries about her father \"Dan\" who was shipping off to Iraq with the 101st Airborne. Kodee's mother was said to be dead.\n\nOver the next year, the \"Egyptian\" would publish, unedited, notes and letters from \"Kodee\", liberally strewn with misspellings and phonetic English, to update their readers about Dan's Iraq service or Kodee's daily life. A young friend of Reynolds, Caitlin Hadley, the daughter of a Nazarene minister, was recruited to play the part of Kodee for photographs, and a nurse, Patrick Trovillion, played Dan. Both believed that they were playing parts in a movie. \"Kodee\" was taken to the \"Egyptian\" newsroom and other Carbondale locations. \"Dan\" was photographed wearing camouflage, sitting on a tank, and meeting with school children in Michigan. \"Dan\" also called the newsroom and maintained an e-mail address at Yahoo! \"Dan\" was even portrayed as having been injured in a December, 2004 explosion in a mess hall at a base near Mosul, Iraq. He reportedly returned to duty just weeks later, and was later injured by an roadside bomb which struck a Humvee in which he was traveling.\n\nReynolds also apparently penned a guest editorial published in the name of a real war widow, wherein the author claimed that her late husband had been a war buddy of Kennings'.\n\nTo further attempt to turn her hoax into reality, Jaimie Reynolds would dial the \"Daily Egyptian\" newsroom and – unbeknown to DE staff – allegedly disguise her voice to pretend to be the fictional girl \"Kodee Kennings\" wanting to talk to staff.\n\nThroughout the hoax, Jaimie Reynolds also passed herself off as the twin sister of the fictional \"Colleen Hastings\" and visited the \"Daily Egyptian\" newsroom alternating as either Jaimie or \"Colleen.\" Reynolds was a broadcast-journalism student at Southern Illinois University and graduated in 2004, putting her in classes alongside \"Daily Egyptian\" staff.\n\nThe hoax unraveled when Reynolds claimed in August 2005 that Kennings had died in Iraq. This news was published in the \"Egyptian\", leading reporters from the \"Tribune\" to seek an interview with \"Hastings.\" These reporters became suspicious when Reynolds routed interview requests through Brenner, who had become a close friend of hers.\n\nReynolds and Hadley (as \"Hastings\" and \"Kodee\"), along with members of the \"Egyptian\" staff, attended a memorial service arranged at the local American Legion outpost. After openly weeping at the service, Reynolds and Hadley met with \"Tribune\" reporters briefly at a restaurant, where they were told that media liaisons at The Pentagon were unable to confirm the existence of Kennings. Reynolds refused to provide any proof of Kennings' existence. Days later, reporters located her at her mother's home in Marion, Illinois, where she admitted to participating in the hoax.\n\nBrenner was duped by Reynolds. After numerous articles in the \"Chicago Tribune\", the Associated Press, the \"St. Louis Post-Dispatch\" and the \"Daily Egyptian\" itself, it appeared no crime was committed. The parents of Hadley were particularly upset, however and considered a restraining order against Reynolds.\n\nSubsequent attempts to contact Reynolds after news of her hoax broke were unsuccessful. Reynolds went so far as to change the identity of her cell-phone voicemail from the fictional \"Colleen Hastings\" to \"Blank Blank.\"\n\nThe \"Daily Egyptian\" subsequently investigated the hoax that had been perpetrated on its own paper. In part due to that investigation, the \"Egyptian\" won the Illinois College Press Association's General Excellence Award in 2006, as well as first place in the Investigative Reporting category.\n\n"}
{"id": "537117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537117", "title": "Komische Oper Berlin", "text": "Komische Oper Berlin\n\nThe Komische Oper Berlin is a German opera company based in Berlin. The company produces opera, operetta and musicals.\n\nThe opera house is located on Behrenstraße, just a few steps from Unter den Linden. Since 2004, the Komische Oper Berlin, along with the Berlin State Opera, the Deutsche Oper Berlin, the Berlin State Ballet, and the Bühnenservice Berlin (Stage and Costume Design), has been a member of the Berlin Opera Foundation.\n\nThe theatre was built between 1891 and 1892 by architects Ferdinand Fellner and Hermann Helmer for a private society. It first opened on 24 September 1892 as \"Theater Unter den Linden\" with Adolf Ferron's operetta \"Daphne\" and Gaul and Haßreiter's ballet \"Die Welt in Bild und Tanz\".\n\nThe theatre was primarily a vehicle for operetta, but was also used for various other events and balls. Around 800 people could be seated in the stalls, and the balconies and various en-suite dinner rooms housed about a further 1,700 seats. Its directors went bankrupt in 1896 and the theatre was forced to close its doors.\n\nOn 3 September 1898 the theatre was reopened as \"Metropol-Theater\" with Julius Freund's revue \"Paradies der Frauen\". It then grew to become one of Berlin's most famous and successful variety theatres. During the 1920s and early 1930s, it was leased by the brothers Alfred and Fritz Rotter. Under their management, it saw the premieres of two operettas by Franz Lehár - \"Friederike (opera)\" in 1928 and Das Land des Lächelns in 1929, both starring Richard Tauber. However, due to a decline of variety and music hall entertainment the theatre was again closed in 1933.\n\nIn 1934 the theatre was nationalised and renamed \"Staatliches Operettentheater\". It operated as part of the Nazi \"Kraft durch Freude\" entertainment and leisure programmes. During World War II, the auditorium was damaged by Allied bombing on 7 May 1944. The façade, entrance hall, and auditorium ceiling murals were destroyed by bombs on 9 March 1945.\n\nAfter the war, the theatre was in East Germany, being that the building was in the eastern part of Berlin. Following repair works and provisional rebuilding, the theatre reopened on 23 December 1947, as the \"Komische Oper\" with Johann Strauss's operetta \"Die Fledermaus\".\n\nThe 1950s saw various further alterations and extensions. The theatre was completely rebuilt in 1965/1966 by Architektenkollektiv Kunz Nierade, adding functional extensions and giving the theatre a completely new exterior. The theatre reopened again on 4 December 1966, with Mozart's \"Don Giovanni\". The auditorium underwent further restoration in 1986, and the stage technology was further modernised by 1989. Today the theatre seats 1,270.\n\nIn 1947, Walter Felsenstein founded and led the resident opera company, the \"Komische Oper\", until his death in 1975. Götz Friedrich was an assistant to Felsenstein at the company. Joachim Herz became general director after Felsenstein's death and served until 1981. Subsequently, Harry Kupfer directed the company for 21 seasons, until 2002. The company specializes in German language productions of opera, operetta and musicals. In 2007 the company won, jointly with Oper Bremen, the \"Opera house of the year\" award by the German magazine \"Opernwelt\". From 2002 to 2012, the company's chief director and \"Intendant\" was . In June 2008, the company announced the appointment of Barrie Kosky to succeed Homoki as its next \"Intendant\", as of the 2012/2013 season. In October 2014, his contract with the company was extended through 2022. Since 2005, the company's managing director has been Susanne Moser.\n\nFrom 1966 to 2004, the theatre was also home to a resident ballet company – first as the \"Tanztheater der Komischen Oper\", and then from 1999 as \"BerlinBallett – Komische Oper\". In 2004, due to budgetary problems, the separate ballet companies of Berlin's three opera houses were merged into a single company called the Staatsballett Berlin.\n\nPast General Music Directors (GMD) of the company have included Kurt Masur, Rolf Reuter, Yakov Kreizberg, Kirill Petrenko, Carl St.Clair, and Patrick Lange. Since 2012, the GMD of the company is Henrik Nánási. Nánási is scheduled to conclude his tenure at the end of the 2017-2018 season. In May 2017, the company announced the appointment of Ainārs Rubiķis as its next GMD, effective with the 2018-2019 season, with an initial contract of 3 seasons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35718371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35718371", "title": "List of film and television accidents", "text": "List of film and television accidents\n\nThis is intended to be a list of notable accidents that occurred during the shooting of films and television, such as cast or crew fatalities or serious accidents that plagued production. It is not intended to be a list of every minor injury an actor or stuntman suffered during filming. Stuntwork accounts for over half of all film-related injuries, with an average of five deaths for every 2,000 injuries. From 1980 to 1990, there were 37 deaths relating to accidents during stunts; 24 of these deaths involved the use of helicopters.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42183735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42183735", "title": "List of long biographical articles on Rees's Cyclopaedia", "text": "List of long biographical articles on Rees's Cyclopaedia\n\nThis is a list of the longer biographical articles from Rees's \"Cyclopaedia\", 4 columns or more (3000 words appx.) The longest is that of Captain Cook (43.9 columns).\n\nThere are 3789 biographies half a column (350 words) or more long, and an unknown number of briefer ones. Sir James Edward Smith wrote the Botanical articles, and Charles Burney the ones on Music. Many of the biographical articles are sourced to biographical reference books. In most cases Christian names were Anglicised – John for Johannes, for example.\n\n"}
{"id": "21149621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21149621", "title": "Lucky-S incident", "text": "Lucky-S incident\n\nThe \"Lucky-S\" incident occurred on January 7, 1993 when Turkish Navy vessels, carrying members of the Turkish Narcotic Police, intercepted the MV \"Lucky-S\", a Turkish ocean freighter in international waters in the Mediterranean Sea. The ship was suspected of being involved in smuggling illegal drugs into Turkey.\n\nIt was the second Turkish anti-drug-smuggling operation on the high seas in three weeks, following the Kısmetim-1 incident. cannabis and morphine base were captured on the ship, which was escorted to a Turkish port.\n\nA total of 11 individuals arrested as a result of the operation were convicted of involvement in the drug trade.\n\nNejat Daş, who was also found to have organized drug trafficking by the MV \"Kısmetim-1\" and was imprisoned, escaped from custody on November 8, 1994, as he was brought from Sinop Fortress Prison to the 1st State Security Court in Istanbul for trial over his involvement in the Lucky-S incident. On March 16, 1995, he was sentenced in absentia to 24 years' imprisonment in a maximum-security prison.\n\nIt was asserted that the drug on the ship belonged mostly to the Turkish drug lord Halil Havar, son of the arms trafficker Mehmet Havar. He was tried and sentenced to 30 years' imprisonment. He is serving his sentence in the maximum-security Uşak Prison.\n\n"}
{"id": "1182320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1182320", "title": "Mass operations of the NKVD", "text": "Mass operations of the NKVD\n\nMass operations of the NKVD were carried out during the Great Purge and targeted specific categories of people. As a rule, they were carried out according to the corresponding order of the People's Commissar of Internal Affairs Nikolai Yezhov.\n\n\nThe operations of this type in this period targeted \"foreign\" ethnicities (ethnicities with cross-border ties to foreign nation-states), unlike nationally targeted repressions during World War II.\n\n\nOn November 17, 1938 a joint decree No. 81 of Sovnarkom USSR and Central Committee of Communist Party of the Soviet Union Decree about Arrests, Prosecutor Supervision and Course of Investigation and the subsequent order of the NKVD undersigned by Lavrentiy Beria cancelled most of NKVD orders of mass type (but not all, see, e.g., NKVD Order no. 00689) and suspended implementation of death sentences, signifying the end of the Great Purge (\"Yezhovshchina\").\n"}
{"id": "6799019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6799019", "title": "Melodifestivalen 1972", "text": "Melodifestivalen 1972\n\nMelodifestivalen 1972 was the selection for the 13th song to represent Sweden at the Eurovision Song Contest. It was the 12th time that this system of picking a song had been used. Approximately 1000 songs were submitted to Sveriges Radio for the competition. The final was broadcast on TV1 but was not broadcast on radio.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28092660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28092660", "title": "NZPWI Invitational", "text": "NZPWI Invitational\n\nThe NZPWI Invitational was a professional wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) event hosted by the website New Zealand Pro Wrestling Informer (NZPWI). The event was the first interpromotional show ever held in New Zealand and featured wrestlers from the country's three major promotions Impact Pro Wrestling, Kiwi Pro Wrestling, New Zealand Wide Pro Wrestling, and Peter Ball's Major Impact Wrestling from Australia now called Impact Pro Wrestling Australia. Held annually in 2006 and 2007, it was primarily a single-elimination tournament and included a 20-man battle royal semi-main event. The battle royal would end via pin or submission between the last two entrants, the winner of which would receive an entry for next year's invitational.\n\nThe event was largely organised by Dion McCraken, NZPWI editor-in-chief, whose intention was to bring attention to professional wrestling in New Zealand. Similar to the Super 8 Tournament in the United States or the Super J-Cup in Japan, it showcased the top talent of New Zealand's \"big three\" and provided the first major television exposure for many independent wrestlers in the Australasian region since the days of Steve Rickard's \"On the Mat\" during the 1980s. The show also served as a reunion of sorts for older veterans of the era. John da Silva, a champion amateur and pro wrestler during the 1960s and 70s, was in attendance at the 2006 invitational and presented the trophy to \"Heartless\" Alfred Valentine after winning the tournament.\n\nIt was one of the largest show's ever held in New Zealand and the event received some coverage by the national media. The 2006 NZPWI Invitational was promoted by \"Fight Times Magazine\" in March 2006. The Machine, an IPW wrestler and first entrant to battle royal, was featured in a cover story for the \"Horowhenua-Kapiti Weekend Chronicle\" on 29 July. Two of its participants, IPW wrestlers Alfred Valentine and Jon E. King, were interviewed on TV One's morning talk show \"Breakfast\" by Kay Gregory days prior to the event.\n\nThe first annual NZPWI Invitational was held at the Lynfield YMCA on 12 August 2006, and was attended by a sell out crowd of 450 fans. It was the largest attendance for a live wrestling event in 20 years. The 2006 NZPWI Invitational was later shown on Sky1 and proved so popular that the network aired on primetime the following year. The second show was broadcast following the 9 December 2007 edition of WWE Smackdown, and again on Christmas Eve followed by the WWE Hall of Fame Induction Ceremony. The program was watched by over 100,000 people on SKY Television and both invitationals later released on DVD. Dion McCracken served as the colour commentator for both shows, with co-host Vinny Dunn in 2006 and manager Gary O. Davis in 2007, and his performance led to a full-time position as the head announcer of \"IPW Ignition\".\n\nAlthough plans were made to hold a third NZPWI Invitational in November 2008, the event was unable to gain the necessary corporate sponsorship to cover costs. Previous shows had been held at a significant loss, costing at least $15,000 to run, and almost entirely supported financially by McCraken himself. Due to the financial burden, as well as familial commitments, McCraken officially announced on NZPWI.co.nz that he would no longer be able to host the event.\n\n12 August 2006 in Lynfield, New Zealand (Lynfield YMCA)\nThe tournament took place on 12 August 2006. The tournament brackets were:\n10 November 2007 in Whangarei, New Zealand (Forum North Exhibition Hall)\nThe tournament took place on 10 November 2007. The tournament brackets were:\n"}
{"id": "38084418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38084418", "title": "Okinawa International Movie Festival", "text": "Okinawa International Movie Festival\n\nThe Okinawa International Movie Festival is an annual Film Festival held in Ginowan City and Naha City on the Japanese island of Okinawa Island. The festival was founded by Japanese century-old comedy-entertainment giant Yoshimoto Kogyo in 2009 and focuses on comedy films from around the world, with the theme of \"Laugh & Peace\".\n\nIt is held each year at the Okinawa Convention Center and Sakurazaka Theater with indoor and outdoor screenings of film premieres and recent movies from Japan and abroad. It also hosts fashion, music and trade shows and has been likened to a Japanese \"matsuri\" in atmosphere.\n\nThe most prestigious award given out at the Okinawa International Movie Festival is the \"Golden Shisa Award\" for the best film, selected by a jury.\n\nThe 8th Okinawa International Film Festival was held from April 21, 2016 until April 24, 2016.\n\nThe concept for the festival was inspired by a visit to Cannes Film Festival by Yoshimoto Kogyo CEO Hiroshi Osaki. While watching the premiere of Hitoshi Matsumoto's \"Dai Nipponjin\" he considered that the cost of making a film was higher than of putting on a festival, and so to allow people to enjoy watching films, perhaps his company could arrange their own.\n\nYoshimoto Kogyo, which was started by Sei and Kichibei Yoshimoto in 1912 with a \"rakugo\" theater in the grounds Tenmangu Shrine in Osaka, had been expanding throughout the 2000s with hundreds of new comedians graduating each year from New Star Creation, Yoshimoto's entertainment school. In addition it had spread out to manage athletes, producers and musicians, and two theatres in each of Tokyo and Osaka.\n\nWith Busan Film Festival director Kim Dong-ho as a patron for the Okinawa International Movie Festival, he was able to give valuable advice while other staff brought expertise from Tokyo International Film Festival. The 1st Okinawa International Movie Festival took place over four days from March 19–22, 2009 at the American Village at Mihama Chatan-cho in Okinawa City.\n\nThe location of Okinawa was selected for its natural beauty by the sea in order to replicate the atmosphere of Cannes, but with comedy at its heart.\n\nBefore each screening, every film is introduced by one of comedy agency giant and organizer Yoshimoto Kogyo's comedians.\n\nThe festival's largest screen is shipped over from Sweden and placed directly on the beach at Okinawa Convention Center. It measures just under 30m wide and 15m tall.\n\nThe Okinawa International Movie Festival is organised into two main sections:\n\nPrior to the beginning of each event, the Festival's board of directors appoints the juries who hold sole responsibility for choosing which films will receive a Cannes award. Jurors are chosen from a wide range of international artists, based on their body of work and respect from their peers.\n\n\nThe most prestigious award given out at the Okinawa International Movie Festival is the \"Golden Shisa Award\" for the best film.\n\nIn addition the Uminchu Prize Grand Prix is awarded to the best film in each of the two categories.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8879732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8879732", "title": "Our Lady of Meritxell", "text": "Our Lady of Meritxell\n\nOur Lady of Meritxell (, ) is an Andorran Roman Catholic statue depicting an apparition of the Virgin Mary. Our Lady of Meritxell is the patron saint of Andorra. The original statue dated from the late 12th century. However, the chapel in which it was housed burned down on September 8 and 9, 1972, and the statue was destroyed. A replica can be found in the new Meritxell Chapel, designed in 1976 by Ricardo Bofill. \n\nThe Catalan philologist Joan Coromines says that \"Meritxell\" is a diminutive of \"merig\", from the Latin \"meridiem\" (midday in English). Merig is a name used by shepherds to denote a pasture with lot of sun.\n\nIn the late 12th century, on January 6, a wild rose in bloom was found by villagers from Meritxell going to Mass in Canillo. It was out of season and at its base was found a statue of the Virgin and Child. \nThe statue was placed in the Canillo church. However, the statue was found under the same wild rose the next day. The statue was taken to the church of Encamp. However, as before, the statue was again found under the same wild rose on the next day. As in similar legends elsewhere, the villagers of Meritxell took this as a sign and decided to build a new chapel in their town after they found an open space miraculously untouched by the winter snows.\n\nThe feast day of Our Lady of Meritxell is September 8 and the Andorran National Holiday.\n\nThe image is also mentioned in the anthem of Andorra.\n\n\"Meritxell\" is a relatively frequent female name among Andorran women and other Catalan-speaking women.\n\nNotable persons with the name include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16389810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16389810", "title": "Panguni Uthiram", "text": "Panguni Uthiram\n\nPanguni Uthiram (Tamil:பங்குனி உத்திரம்) (also known as Meena Uttara-phalguni in Sanskrit) is a day of importance to Tamil Hindus. It falls on the day the moon transits in the asterism or nakshatram of Uttara-phalguni or Uthiram in the twelfth month of the Tamil calendar i.e. Panguni. It is the Purnima or full moon of the month of Panguni (பங்குனி 14 March - 13 April). This coincides with the Hindu calendar month of Phalguna / Chaitra.\n\nThis month is special because the Uthiram nakshatram coincides with the full moon. This full moon signifies the marriage of Parvati and Parameswara (Lord Shiva), Murugan and Deivanai, and Aandaal (also known as Kothai) and Rangamannar took place. On Panguni Uthiram, Narayana marries Komalavalli Naachiyar and give his Kalyana Kola Seva to his Bhakthas. Again, Valmiki's Ramayana says it is on this day and star that Sita's marriage with Rama was celebrated. From Brahmanda Puranam we learn that on Panguni Uthiram every holy water joins Thumburu teertha (also spelt as Tirtha), one of seven sacred tanks in Tirupati Tirumala. \n\nThe day is intended to underline the glory of grahasta dharma (or the married life of a householder). The Almighty manifests in the marital state as Uma Maheswara, Sita Rama, and Radha Krishna – despite his changelessness, sans childhood or youth or old age. The Lord is indeed a Nitya Kalyana Murthi. It is our duty to celebrate this day when the Lord, in both Shiva and Vishnu temples, appears to devotees in his married state. On Panguni Uthiram, in all places where Lord Subrahmanya has a temple, his devotees carry in a kavadi the requisites for puja for him, in fulfilment of vows. Such vow fulfilment by devotees carrying kavadis is a special feature of Subrahmanya temples wherever they happen to be.\n\nDevotees flock in hundreds to all the Murugan temples during the Panguni Uthiram festival, which is celebrated in March every year. It is the Jayanti (Day of Incarnation) of Lord Ayyappan. It is also an important festival day for Lord Subramanya (Muruga), as it is on this day that Sri Deivanai married Lord Subramanya. On this day Goddess Mahalakshmi incarnated on earth from the ocean of milk (after the ocean was churned by the Gods and the demons) and hence it is celebrated as Mahalakshmi Jayanti. On this day Goddess Parvati in the form of Gowri married Lord Siva in Kanchipuram and hence this day is also celebrated as the Gowri Kalyanam day.\n\nThe month of Panguni when coinciding with Phalguna, sees the festival of Holi too. It is celebrated in the Braj region, which includes locations traditionally connected to the Lord Krishna: Mathura, Vrindavan, Nandagaon, and Barsana, Kumaoni (Uttarakhand); also as Basatotsav (Bengal), Phagwah (Bihar), Doḷajātra (Oriya), Ganga Mela (UP), Dol Purnima (Bengal), Śigmo (Konkani), Rangapanchami (MP), Yaosang (Manipur), Basnata Panchami (AP), Phakuwa (Assam), Shimga (Maharashtra), Manjal Kuli (Kerala), Fagu Poornima (Nepal), Panguni Uthram Vasanthotsavam (TN). Mostly it coincides with the end of Rang Panchami; Phalgun Krushnapaksh Panchami celebrations, so called Panchami of Holi of Krishna, which carries on as a celebration of spring. The playful throwing of natural colored powders has a medicinal significance: the colours are traditionally made of Neem, Kumkum, Haldi, Bilva, and other medicinal herbs prescribed by Ayurveda doctors. A very auspicious day for all Hindus.\n\nThe day of Panguni Uthiram is of special significance to the worship of earth element, \"Prithvi lingam\" of Ekambareswarar Temple, where festivities last for 13 days.\n\nThis occurs during the last month of the year known as Panguni (i.e. Phalguna / Chaitra). Panguni Uthiram is a famous festival and special to Murugan and Shiva devotees. The 2019 date is March 21, on Thursday.\n\n"}
{"id": "24143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24143", "title": "Perestroika", "text": "Perestroika\n\nPerestroika (; ) was a political movement for reformation within the Communist Party of the Soviet Union during the 1980s and 1990s and is widely associated with Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev and his glasnost (meaning \"openness\") policy reform. The literal meaning of perestroika is \"restructuring,\" referring to the restructuring of the Soviet political and economic system.\n\nPerestroika is sometimes argued to be a significant cause of the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the revolutions of 1989 in Eastern Europe, and the end of the Cold War.\nPerestroika allowed more independent actions from various ministries and introduced some market-like reforms. The goal of perestroika, however, was not to end the command economy but rather to make socialism work more efficiently to better meet the needs of Soviet citizens. The process of implementing perestroika arguably exacerbated already existing political, social, and economic tensions within the Soviet Union and is often blamed for furthering the political ascent of nationalism and nationalist political parties in the constituent republics. Perestroika and its associated structural ailments have been cited as major catalysts leading to the dissolution of the Soviet Union.\n\nIn May 1985, Gorbachev gave a speech in Leningrad in which he admitted the slowing of economic development, and inadequate living standards. This was the first time that a Soviet leader had done so.\n\nThe programme was furthered at the 27th Congress of the Communist Party in Gorbachev's report to the congress, in which he spoke about \"perestroika\", \"uskoreniye\", \"human factor\", \"glasnost\", and \"expansion of the khozraschyot\" (commercialization).\n\nDuring the initial period (1985–87) of Mikhail Gorbachev's time in power, he talked about modifying central planning but did not make any truly fundamental changes (\"uskoreniye\"; \"acceleration\"). Gorbachev and his team of economic advisors then introduced more fundamental reforms, which became known as \"perestroika\" (restructuring).\n\nAt the June 1987 plenary session of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU), Gorbachev presented his \"basic theses\", which laid the political foundation of economic reform for the remainder of the existence of the Soviet Union.\n\nIn July 1987, the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union passed the Law on State Enterprise. The law stipulated that state enterprises were free to determine output levels based on demand from consumers and other enterprises. Enterprises had to fulfill state orders, but they could dispose of the remaining output as they saw fit. However, at the same time the state still held control over the means of production for these enterprises, thus limiting their ability to enact full-cost accountability. Enterprises bought input from suppliers at negotiated contract prices. Under the law, enterprises became self-financing; that is, they had to cover expenses (wages, taxes, supplies, and debt service) through revenues. No longer was the government to rescue unprofitable enterprises that could face bankruptcy. Finally, the law shifted control over the enterprise operations from ministries to elected workers' collectives. Gosplan's (; \"Gosudarstvenniy komitet po planirovaniyu\"; \"State Committee for Planning\") responsibilities were to supply general guidelines and national investment priorities, not to formulate detailed production plans.\n\nThe Law on Cooperatives, enacted in May 1988, was perhaps the most radical of the economic reforms during the early part of the Gorbachev era. For the first time since Vladimir Lenin's New Economic Policy was abolished in 1928, the law permitted private ownership of businesses in the services, manufacturing, and foreign-trade sectors. The law initially imposed high taxes and employment restrictions, but it later revised these to avoid discouraging private-sector activity. Under this provision, cooperative restaurants, shops, and manufacturers became part of the Soviet scene.\nGorbachev brought \"perestroika\" to the Soviet Union's foreign economic sector with measures that Soviet economists considered bold at that time. His programme virtually eliminated the monopoly that the Ministry of Foreign Trade had once held on most trade operations. It permitted the ministries of the various industrial and agricultural branches to conduct foreign trade in sectors under their responsibility, rather than having to operate indirectly through the bureaucracy of trade ministry organizations. In addition, regional and local organizations and individual state enterprises were permitted to conduct foreign trade. This change was an attempt to redress a major imperfection in the Soviet foreign trade regime: the lack of contact between Soviet end users and suppliers and their foreign partners.\n\nThe most significant of Gorbachev's reforms in the foreign economic sector allowed foreigners to invest in the Soviet Union in the form of joint ventures with Soviet ministries, state enterprises, and cooperatives. The original version of the Soviet Joint Venture Law, which went into effect in June 1987, limited foreign shares of a Soviet venture to 49 percent and required that Soviet citizens occupy the positions of chairman and general manager. After potential Western partners complained, the government revised the regulations to allow majority foreign ownership and control. Under the terms of the Joint Venture Law, the Soviet partner supplied labor, infrastructure, and a potentially large domestic market. The foreign partner supplied capital, technology, entrepreneurial expertise, and in many cases, products and services of world competitive quality.\n\nGorbachev's economic changes did not do much to restart the country's sluggish economy in the late 1980s. The reforms decentralised things to some extent, although price controls remained, as did the ruble's inconvertibility and most government controls over the means of production.\n\nBy 1990 the government had virtually lost control over economic conditions. Government spending increased sharply as an increasing number of unprofitable enterprises required state support and consumer price subsidies continued. Tax revenues declined because republic and local governments withheld tax revenues from the central government under the growing spirit of regional autonomy. The elimination of central control over production decisions, especially in the consumer goods sector, led to the breakdown in traditional supply-demand relationships without contributing to the formation of new ones. Thus, instead of streamlining the system, Gorbachev's decentralisation caused new production bottlenecks.\n\n\"Perestroika\" and Deng Xiaoping's economic reforms have similar origins but very different effects on their respective countries' economies. Both efforts occurred in large socialist countries attempting to modernize their economies, but while China's GDP has grown consistently since the late 1980s (albeit from a much lower level), national GDP in the USSR and in many of its successor states fell precipitously throughout the 1990s. Gorbachev's reforms were gradualist and maintained many of the macroeconomic aspects of the command economy (including price controls, inconvertibility of the ruble, exclusion of private property ownership, and the government monopoly over most means of production).\n\nReform was largely focused on industry and on cooperatives, and a limited role was given to the development of foreign investment and international trade. Factory managers were expected to meet state demands for goods, but to find their own funding. Perestroika reforms went far enough to create new bottlenecks in the Soviet economy but arguably did not go far enough to effectively streamline it.\n\nChinese economic reform was, by contrast, a bottom-up attempt at reform, focusing on light industry and agriculture (namely allowing peasants to sell produce grown on private holdings at market prices). Economic reforms were fostered through the development of \"Special Economic Zones\", designed for export and to attract foreign investment, municipally managed Township and Village Enterprises and a \"dual pricing\" system leading to the steady phasing out of state-dictated prices. Greater latitude was given to managers of state-owned factories, while capital was made available to them through a reformed banking system and through fiscal policies (in contrast to the fiscal anarchy and fall in revenue experienced by the Soviet government during \"perestroika\"). Perestroika was expected to lead to results such as market pricing and privately sold produce, but the Union dissolved before advanced stages were reached.\n\nAnother fundamental difference is that where perestroika was accompanied by greater political freedoms under Gorbachev's glasnost policies, Chinese economic reform has been accompanied by continued authoritarian rule and a suppression of political dissidents, most notably at Tiananmen Square. Gorbachev acknowledges this difference but has always maintained that it was unavoidable and that perestroika would have been doomed to defeat and revanchism by the nomenklatura without glasnost, because conditions in the Soviet Union were not identical to those in China. Gorbachev had lived through the era in which the attempted reforms by Khrushchev, limited as they were, were rolled back under Brezhnev and other pro-totalitarian conservatives, and he could clearly see that the same could happen again without glasnost to allow broad oppositional pressure against the nomenklatura. Gorbachev cited a line from a 1986 newspaper article that he felt encapsulated this reality: \"The apparatus broke Khrushchev's neck and the same thing will happen now.\"\n\nAnother difference is that Soviet Union faced strong secession threats from its ethnic regions and a primacy challenge by the RSFSR. Gorbachev's extension of regional autonomy removed the suppression from existing ethnic-regional tension, while Deng's reforms did not alter the tight grip of the central government on any of their so-called autonomous regions. The Soviet Union's dual nature, part supranational union of republics and part unitary state, played a part in the difficulty of controlling the pace of restructuring, especially once the new Russian Communist Party was formed and posed a challenge to the primacy of the CPSU. Gorbachev described this process as a \"parade of sovereignties\" and identified it as the factor that most undermined the gradualism of restructuring and the preservation of the Soviet Union. This caused a situation in the USSR whose closest analog would be if English sovereignty undermined that of the United Kingdom at a time when the entire UK society and economy was under significant stress and reform, or if North China had a party and state emerge as a challenge to the CCP and PRC during Deng's reforms.\n\nOne of the final important measures taken on the continuation of the movement was a report from the central committee meeting of the CPSU titled \"On Reorganization and the Party's Personnel Policy\". This report was in such high demand in Prague and Berlin that many people could not get a copy. One effect was the sudden demand for Russian dictionaries in order to understand the content of Gorbachev's report. \n\nDuring the 1980s and 1990s the United States President George H. W. Bush pledged solidarity with Gorbachev, but never brought his administration into supporting Gorbachev's reform. In fact, \"no bailout for Gorbachev\" was a consistent policy line of the Bush Administration, further demonstrating the lack of true support from the West. President Bush had a financial policy to aid perestroika that was shaped by a minimalist approach, foreign-policy convictions that set Bush up against other U.S. internal affairs, and a frugal attitude, all influencing his unwillingness to aid Gorbachev. Other factors influenced the West's lack of aid as well like \"the in-house Gorbi-skeptics\" advocacy, the expert community's consensus about the undesirability of rushing U.S. aid to Gorbachev, and strong opposition to any bailout at many levels, including foreign-policy conservatives, the U.S. Congress, and the American public at large. The West seemed to miss an opportunity to help reform the Soviet regime into a more democracy-like society. The Soviets aided in the expansion of Western capitalism to allow for an inflow of Western investments, but the perestroika managers failed. President Bush had the opportunity to aid the Soviet Union in a chance to improve their government, like Harry S. Truman did for Western Europe. Early on, as perestroika was getting under way, I felt like the West might come along and find it a sensible thing to do—easing Russia's difficult transition from totalitarianism to democracy. What I had in mind in the Preface iv first place, was the participation [of the West] in conversion of defense industries, the modernization of light and food industries, and Russia's inclusion on an equal-member footing in the frameworks of the international economic relations ... [U]nlike some democrats, I did not expect \"manna from Heaven,\" but counted on the Western statesmen to use their common sense.President George H. Bush continued to dodge helping the Russians and the President of Czechoslovakia, Vaclav Havel, laid bare the linkage for the Americans in his address to a joint session of Congress on February 21, 1990: ... I often hear the question: How can the United States of America help us today? My reply is as paradoxical as the whole of my life has been: You can help us most of all if you help the Soviet Union on its irreversible, but immensely complicated road to democracy. ...[T]he sooner, the more quickly, and the more peacefully the Soviet Union begins to move along the road toward genuine political pluralism, respect for the rights of nations to their own integrity and to a working—that is a market—economy, the better it will be, not just for Czechs and Slovaks, but for the whole world.\n\nWhen the United States needed help with Germany's reunification, Gorbachev proved to be instrumental in bringing solutions to the \"German problem\" and Bush acknowledged that \"Gorbachev was moving the USSR in the right direction\". Bush, in his own words, even gave praise to Gorbachev \"to salute the man\" in acknowledgment of the Soviet leader's role as \"the architect of perestroika ... [who had] conducted the affairs of the Soviet Union with great restraint as Poland and Czechoslovakia and GDR ... and other countries [that had] achieved their independence,\" and who was \"under extraordinary pressure at home, particularly on the economy.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52919670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52919670", "title": "Plasco Building", "text": "Plasco Building\n\nThe Plasco Building () was a 17-story high-rise landmark building in Tehran, the capital city of Iran. At the time of its construction in the 1960s it was the tallest building in Iran and was considered an iconic part of the Tehran skyline. The building collapsed on 19 January 2017 during a skyscraper fire.\n\nThe Plasco building was built in 1962 by the prominent businessman Habib Elghanian, during a decade of rapid growth in Iran. The building was named after his plastics company. At the time of its construction it was the tallest building in Iran, and was considered an iconic landmark of the Tehran skyline, representing the drive for modernization under the rule of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi.\n\nAfter the 1979 Iranian revolution, Habib Elghanian was executed by the new government, which seized the building and handed ownership of it to the state-controlled Islamic Revolution Mostazafan Foundation, tied to the Iranian Revolutionary Guards. The Mostazafan Foundation operated the building until its collapse.\n\nAt the time of the fire, the Plasco building was used as a residential and commercial building, with a major shopping center on its ground floor, a restaurant on its upper floor, and several clothing workshops.\n\nOn 19 January 2017, a fire started on the ninth floor at around 07:50 local time (04:20 GMT). The building was occupied at the time by its residents, workers at the garment shops, and various tour groups that were being shown around the building. Ten fire brigades arrived to fight the blaze. The combined brigades had been trying to stop the fire for hours—while assuring that the building had been evacuated—when the building's north wall collapsed without warning, leading to the collapse of the rest of the building a few moments later. The collapse was captured on camera by Iran's state-run Press TV, which was filming the firefighting efforts.\n\nSeveral firefighters were in the building when the north wall fell, some of whom safely escaped before the building completely collapsed. A number had been fighting the fire from elevated aerial platforms that toppled over during the collapse of the building. Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf, the mayor of Tehran, said he believed that no other civilians were within the building when it collapsed, but eyewitnesses reported seeing residents crossing police lines to try to enter the building and recover their possessions.\n\nTwenty firefighters have been reported to be killed. At least 70 others were injured by the collapse, with 23 taken to local hospitals having suffered severe injuries. The building primarily collapsed vertically, causing minimal damage to neighboring buildings.\n\nThe remains of 15 firefighters were recovered after nine days of relief and rescue operations, which were aided by the local military. Tens of thousands of Iranians, including firefighters and senior officials, attended the funeral ceremony held at Tehran's Grand Mosalla. They were laid to rest in part of the Behesht-e Zahra cemetery that is reserved for martyrs. Iranian Leader Ayatollah Khamenei eulogized the firefighters in a message, calling them heroes and shaheeds.\n\nFollowing the building's collapse, its owner, the Mostazafan Foundation, declined to make a public statement. Four days later, on 23 January 2017 the foundation apologized for their role in the possible failure in building's safety, but added that they are not a member of building's board who is responsible for the building's affairs. Mohammad Saeedikia, CEO of Mostazafan Foundation also said that the organization is ready to rebuild the Plasco in two years.\n\nIn April 2017 the government issued a report on the collapse of the building which stated that the Mostazafan Foundation had ignored warnings given by the authorities. The report also stated that government ministries had failed to enforce 22 national building regulations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56061462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56061462", "title": "Shinee World The Best 2018", "text": "Shinee World The Best 2018\n\nShinee World The Best 2018 (promoted as SHINee Concert \"SHINee WORLD THE BEST 2018～FROM NOW ON～\") was the sixth Japan concert tour by South Korean boy band Shinee. This tour was described as a culmination of SHINee's activities in Japan since debut, kicked off in Osaka Dome on February 17, 2018 and ended in Tokyo Dome on February 28, 2018. The associated album for this tour was Shinee The Best From Now On. The concerts drew in audiences of over 220,000.\n\nAfter Jonghyun's death on December 18, 2017, the remaining members entered discussion on whether to postpone the concerts and held them as scheduled.\n\n"}
{"id": "6022515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6022515", "title": "SugoiCon", "text": "SugoiCon\n\nSugoiCon was an annual three day anime convention in the Cincinnati–Northern Kentucky metropolitan area held at the Crowne Plaza Cincinnati North in Sharonville, Ohio. The convention was organized by Southwest Ohio Regional Animation.\n\nThe convention typically featured an anime music video contest, concerts, costume contest, dealers room, game shows, guest panels, karaoke, masquerade, rave, video rooms, and workshops. Due to scheduling problems, the 2014 event was cancelled. \n\n"}
{"id": "4584336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4584336", "title": "Swansea Grand Theatre", "text": "Swansea Grand Theatre\n\nSwansea Grand Theatre is a performing arts venue in the centre of Swansea, Wales. The theatre stages plays, pantomimes and touring theatrical acts visiting Swansea. Swansea Grand Theatre was the base for the UK's only Russian ballet company, the Swansea Ballet Russe.\n\nThe theatre opened in 1897. Erected on the site of the former 'Drill Hall' it was designed for proprietors H H Morell and F Mouillot by architect William Hope of Newcastle, built by D Jenkins and opened by Madame Adelina Patti - a locally resident operatic diva.\n\nIn 1968, the Swansea Grand was threatened with closure but, following a campaign led by its manager and artistic director John Chilvers, the theatre was saved. The Swansea Corporation (City Council) leased the building in May 1969 and bought it outright in 1979. The theatre was then refurbished and updated between 1983 and 1987 at a cost of £6.5m. A further £1m was spent on an Arts Wing which opened in 1999 (opened by Catherine Zeta Jones). The City and County of Swansea continues to own, manage and fund the building today.\n\nSwansea Grand Theatre has a 1,014\n-seat auditorium and variety of smaller studios and rooms. The Arts Wing is the most recent development at the theatre, a space to host exhibitions, conferences and smaller-scale music and drama performances. These include Lunchtime Theatre on the last Saturday of each month, presented by Fluellen Theatre Company, a regular burlesque night presented by The Blue Stocking Lounge, and a regular comedy club featuring acts on the comedy circuit.\n\nSince September 1999, the Ballet Russe, formerly known as Swansea's Pavlov Ballet, has been based at the Swansea Grand Theatre. The company, which started in Bristol, is a group of young dancers, most whom trained in Russia at the Bolshoi and Kirov academies. They work as an ensemble under the artistic leadership of the Messerer family, and are able to put on full-length performances of \"Giselle\", \"The Nutcracker\", \"Coppélia\", \"La Fille Mal Gardée\" and \"Swan Lake\", and also give gala performances including extracts from \"Bayadere\", \"Carnival of Venice\", \"Don Quixote\" and \"Le Corsaire\".\n\nSwansea Grand Theatre is also home to the Sir Harry Secombe Trust Youth Theatre, Fluellen Theatre Company, the Swansea Grand Theatre School of Dance and Mellin Theatre Arts, which hold classes, performances and workshops at the venue.\n\n"}
{"id": "47180667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47180667", "title": "Tabriz International Book Fair", "text": "Tabriz International Book Fair\n\nTabriz International Book Fair () is an annual international book fair held in Tabriz, East Azerbaijan, Iran. Held in Tabriz International Exhibition Center, the event also provides an opportunity for publishers to discuss future cooperation. In terms of number of domestic and foreign publishers contract after than Tehran International Book Fair. Perennial Tabriz International Book Fair visits more than 750,000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8236080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8236080", "title": "Taphophobia", "text": "Taphophobia\n\nFear of being buried alive is the fear of being placed in a grave while still alive as a result of being incorrectly pronounced dead. The abnormal, psychopathological version of this fear is referred to as taphophobia (from Greek τάφος - \"taphos\", \"grave, tomb\" and φόβος - \"phobos\", \"fear\"), which is translated as \"fear of graves\".\n\nBefore the advent of modern medicine, the fear was not entirely irrational. Throughout history, there have been numerous cases of people being buried alive by accident. In 1905, the English reformer William Tebb collected accounts of premature burial. He found 219 cases of near live burial, 149 actual live burials, 10 cases of live dissection and 2 cases of awakening while being embalmed.\n\nThe 18th century had seen the development of mouth-to-mouth resuscitation and crude defibrillation techniques to revive persons considered dead, and the Royal Humane Society had been formed as the Society for the Recovery of Persons Apparently Drowned. In 1896, an American funeral director, T. M. Montgomery, reported that \"nearly 2% of those exhumed were no doubt victims of suspended animation\", although folklorist Paul Barber has argued that the incidence of burial alive has been overestimated, and that the normal effects of decomposition are mistaken for signs of life.\n\nThere have been many urban legends of people being accidentally buried alive. Legends included elements such as someone entering into the state of sopor or coma, only to wake up years later and die a horrible death. Other legends tell of coffins opened to find a corpse with a long beard or corpses with the hands raised and palms turned upward. Of note is a legend about the premature burial of Ann Hill Carter Lee, the wife of Henry Lee III. On his deathbed in 1799, George Washington made his attendants promise not to bury him for two days.\n\nLiterature found fertile ground in exploring the natural fear of being buried alive. One of Edgar Allan Poe's horror stories, \"The Premature Burial\", is about a person suffering from taphophobia. Other Poe stories about premature burial are \"The Fall of the House of Usher\" and \"The Cask of Amontillado\"—and to a lesser extent, \"The Black Cat\".\n\nFear of being buried alive was elaborated to the extent that those who could afford it would make all sorts of arrangements for the construction of a safety coffin to ensure this would be avoided (e.g., glass lids for observation, ropes to bells for signaling, and breathing pipes for survival until rescued).\n\nAn urban legend states that the sayings \"Saved by the bell\" and \"Dead ringer\" are both derived from the notion of having a rope attached to a bell outside the coffin that could alert people that the recently buried person is not yet deceased; these theories have been proven a hoax.\n\nAlthough greater public confidence in the medical profession and its ability to diagnose death accurately has seen a reduction in fear of premature burial after the early 20th century there have been periods of public alarm in recent decades after medical errors in diagnosing death were reported. Taphophobia may remain common in some parts of the world. For example, a study of Pakistani women found severe taphophobia in one third of subjects with mental illness and a mild degree of this fear in half of the controls. Although rare in the developed world, a recent study reported three cases of taphophobia among older people in the west of Ireland.\n\n"}
{"id": "12399910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12399910", "title": "The babysitter and the man upstairs", "text": "The babysitter and the man upstairs\n\nThe babysitter and the man upstairs — also known as the babysitter or the sitter — is an urban legend that dates back to the 1960s about a teenage girl babysitting children who receives telephone calls from a man who continually asks her to \"check the children\". The basic storyline has been adapted a number of times, including in \"Foster's Release\" (1971), \"Black Christmas\" (1974), \"O Anjo da Noite\" (1974), \"The Sitter\" (1977), \"When a Stranger Calls\" (1979), \"When a Stranger Calls Back\" (1993), \"When a Stranger Calls\" (2006) and \"Amusement\" (2008). (\"The Sitter\", \"When a Stranger Calls\", and \"When a Stranger Calls Back\" are all the work of director Fred Walton.)\n\nIt has also been covered in the television programs \"Freaky Stories\" and \"\".\n\nA teenage girl is babysitting at night. The children have been put to bed upstairs and the babysitter is downstairs, watching TV. The phone rings; a man tells her to check on the children. The teenager dismisses the call and goes back to watching TV. The stranger calls back several times. Eventually the girl becomes worried and calls the police, who tell her they will trace the next call. After he calls again, the police call back, telling her that the call is coming from inside the house and tell her to get out now. She goes outside and the police meet her. They explain that the calls were coming from inside the house, and that the man was calling her after killing the children.\n\nThe crime on which this urban legend is based happened in 1950. On the evening of March 18, 1950, 13-year-old Janett Christman was babysitting 3-year-old Gregory Romack at his home on West Boulevard and Stewart Road in Columbia, Missouri. Sometime after Christman put the toddler to bed and before his parents returned around 1:30 a.m., an intruder shattered a window and attacked her in the Romacks’ living room. Although a garden hose left outside was used to break the window, police said the furniture and light fixtures near the window were totally undisturbed, making it impossible for him to run into the darkness. that way. This indicated to investigators that the intruder attempted to make it look like the house had been broken into, when in reality, Christman probably opened the front door for someone she knew.\n\nAt 10:35 p.m., Officer Roy McCowan received a jarring phone call. A girl was screaming hysterically on the other end, and McCowan heard the words “come quick!” The connection, however, broke off before the girl could identify herself. At that late hour, the test board at the telephone company was not staffed, and the call could not be traced. At about 1:35 a.m., the Romacks returned home to find the front Venetian blinds open and the porch light illuminated. Both the front and back doors were unlocked, and a side window was broken open. Christman lay in a pool of blood on a shag carpet by the family piano.\n\nIn the attack, she was hit on the head with a blunt weapon, raped and strangled with an iron cord. Several small puncture wounds on her head were consistent with that of a mechanical pencil — an item often carried by a close friend of the Romacks, Robert Mueller. He had met Christman several times and, according to court documents, “expressed admiration for Christman’s figure and her mature development, and expressed the opinion that she was a virgin.” Mrs. Romack told police she thought Mueller had made unwelcome advances toward Christman in the past.\n\nThe prime suspect, 27-year-old Robert Mueller, was never charged, passed a lie detector test and eventually sued the sheriff and others for holding him illegally.\n\nThe crime remains unsolved.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17598662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17598662", "title": "Tom &amp; Viv (play)", "text": "Tom &amp; Viv (play)\n\nTom & Viv is a play written by English playwright Michael Hastings. The play is based on the real life of T. S. Eliot and his wife Vivienne Haigh-Wood Eliot.\n\nTo write the play, Hastings spent many months conducting interviews with friends and family of the Eliot's that were still alive and read through the letters left behind from the family. The play received some controversy over painting T.S. Eliot in a less than flattering light over his treatment of his wife while she was in poor health. Hastings died in 2011.\n\nThe play begins with the beginning of the courtship between T.S. Eliot and Vivienne Haigh-Wood in 1914 and ends with their separation in 1933 and Vivienne's gradual mental health decline until her death in 1947. The play also follows the early career of T.S. Eliot, the death of Vivienne's father, and how her mother Rose dealt with her daughter's failing marriage and mental health.\n\nThe play premiered in 1984 at the Royal Court Theatre. The same cast, except for Wilkinson who was replaced by Edward Herrmann, traveled to New York and the play was staged at The Public Theater. The play did not transfer to Broadway, and instead returned to London for a short run.\n\nIn 2006, the first major revival was staged at the Almeida Theatre starring Frances O'Connor, Will Keen, and Anna Carteret.\nIn 2010, a production was staged at Wadham College in Oxford.\n\nThe play was adapted as a film by Hastings and Adrian Hodges with of the same name in 1993 and released in 1994 by the Weinstein Company. The film received acclaim and Miranda Richardson was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actress and Rosemary Harris was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress.\n\nFor the Royal Court Theatre run, Julie Covington was nominated for the Laurence Olivier Award for Actress of the Year in a New Play.\n\nFor the original Off-broadway run, Margaret Tyzack was nominated for the Drama Desk Award for Outstanding Featured Actress in a Play.\n\nThe play script was first published in 1985 by Penguin Books, it was revised in 1992 with additional notes, and in 2000 it was revised and released by Oberon Books.\n"}
{"id": "53956355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53956355", "title": "Trojan.Win32.DNSChanger", "text": "Trojan.Win32.DNSChanger\n\nTrojan.Win32.DNSChanger (or Trojan:Win32/Dnschanger (\"Microsoft Malware Protection Center\")) is the definition of multiple AV-Labs, of a (backdoor) Trojan. Due to McAfee Labs, this Malware variant was detected on April 19, 2009, though \"Microsoft Malware Protection Center\" knew about this threat since December 8, 2006.\n\nDNS changer Trojans are dropped onto systems by other malware such as \"TDSS\" or Koobface. The DNS-Changer-Trojan is a malicious .exe file, but is unable to spread of its own accord. It may therefore perform several actions of an attacker's choice on an compromised computer, such as changing the \"Domain Name Server\" (\"DNS\") settings in order to divert traffic to unsolicited, and potentially illegal and/or malicious domains.\n\nThe \"Win32.DNSChanger\" is used by organized crime syndicates to maintain Click-Fraud. In that moment the (unaware) user's browsing activity is secretly manipulated (such as altering the user who clicks on a (for him seemingly) legitimate link to then be forwarded to another offered site), so that the attackers can generate revenues from pay-per-click online advertising schemes. Mostly this trojan is usually an extremely small file (+/- 1.5 kilobytes) that is designed to change the 'NameServer' Registry key value to a custom IP address or link. This called IP address is encrypted in the body of a trojan. As a result of this change, a victim's Device will contact the newly assigned \"DNS\"-server to resolve names of different webservers, sometimes randomly.\n\n\n\n\"F-Secure\" received samples of a variant that were named \"PayPal-2.5.200-MSWin32-x86-2005.exe\". In this Case the PayPal attribution indicates that Phishing is likely. This trojan was programmed to change the DNS server name of a victim's computer to IP address 193.227.227.218.\n\nThe Registry key that is affected by this trojan is:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25936961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25936961", "title": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 463", "text": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 463\n\nUnited Nations Security Council resolution 463, adopted on 2 February 1980, after considering the latest developments in Southern Rhodesia and Resolution 460 (1979) in which it was noted that an agreement had produced a Constitution for a free and independent Zimbabwe and majority rule, the Council called on all parties to comply with the Lancaster House Agreement and the administering power, the United Kingdom, to fully implement the agreement. \n\nResolution 463 called upon the Government of the United Kingdom to ensure that South African forces would be withdrawn, regular or mercenary, out of the country. It also requested that United Kingdom implement steps including:\n\nThe resolution also went on to call for the release of South African political prisoners, including \"freedom fighters\" - presumably Umkhonto we Sizwe members detained by the Rhodesian Security Forces - and to ensure safe passage to a country of their choice. It also condemned South Africa for its interference in Southern Rhodesia.\n\nWhile noting that it would keep the situation under review until the full independence of Zimbabwe, the Council adopted the resolution by 14 votes to none, while the United Kingdom did not participate in the vote.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41685404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41685404", "title": "Upstream collection", "text": "Upstream collection\n\nUpstream collection is a term used by the National Security Agency (NSA) of the United States for intercepting telephone and Internet traffic from the Internet backbone, i.e. major Internet cables and switches, both domestic and foreign. Besides the Upstream collection, NSA also gathers information from Internet communications through arrangements with Internet companies under the program codenamed PRISM. Both the Upstream programs and PRISM are part of the Special Source Operations (SSO) division, which is responsible for collection in cooperation with corporate partners.\n\nOne of the slides of a presentation about the PRISM-program describes Upstream as \"collection of communications on fiber cables and infrastructure as data flows past\" and says the Upstream collection is conducted under the following four major surveillance programs:\n\nThe FAIRVIEW, BLARNEY and STORMBREW programs are for collecting data at facilities in the United States, whereas OAKSTAR is an umbrella for eight different programs used for collection outside the US. Under all four programs, the collection takes place in cooperation with commercial telecommunication companies, both inside and outside the US.\n\nUpstream collection programs allow access to very high volumes of data. According to one anonymous official speaking to a Wall Street Journal reporter, first, a pre-selection is done by the telecommunication providers themselves, who select traffic (including the text of emails and the audio of telephone calls) that most likely contains foreign communications. Then the data is passed on to the NSA, where a second selection is made by briefly copying the traffic and filtering it by using so-called \"strong selectors\" like phone numbers, e-mail or IP addresses of people and organizations in which NSA is interested. However, William Binney, a former high-ranking NSA official who is now a whistleblower, publicly maintains that the NSA seeks to \"collect it all\" with minimal filtering. Internet data collected by Upstream programs can be processed and searched through the XKEYSCORE indexing and analysing system.\n\nAccording to former and current US government officials, there are more than a dozen major US based Internet switching stations where this kind of filtering takes place, which is not only near the sites where the main undersea Internet cables enter the US. An actual example of a facility where NSA taps Internet backbone cables is Room 641A in the San Francisco switching station of AT&T, which was revealed in 2006. One of the devices used to filter the Internet traffic is the Semantic Traffic Analyzer or STA 6400 made by Boeing subsidiary Narus.\n\nFor collection of data from Internet cables and switches outside the United States, the NSA also has secret agreements with foreign Internet providers, especially in Europe and the Middle East. The costs for this cooperation made by these companies are paid by NSA under its Corporate Partner Access program, just like the expenses of the American telecommunication companies. The total costs for this program were estimated at 278 million US dollar for the fiscal year 2013.\n\nUpstream collection is conducted under four different legal authorizations: \n\nIn a Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) order from October 3, 2011, it was said that the Upstream collection accounts for approximately 9% of the total number of 250 million Internet communications which NSA collects under the authority of section 702 FAA every year. During the first half of 2011, NSA acquired some 13.25 million Internet communications through Upstream collection. Although this is a relatively small amount, the order says Upstream collection is significant because it contains certain types of valuable foreign intelligence information, it still involves the collection of millions of Internet communications each year, and it is impossible for NSA to exclude domestic communications being collected due to technical difficulties.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "142735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142735", "title": "World war", "text": "World war\n\nA world war is a large-scale war which affects the whole world directly or indirectly. World wars span multiple countries on multiple continents or just two countries, with battles fought in many theaters. While a variety of global conflicts have been subjectively deemed \"world wars\", such as the Cold War and the War on Terror, the term is widely and usually accepted only as it is retrospectively applied to two major international conflicts that occurred during the 20th century: World War I (1914–1918) and World War II (1939–1945).\n\nThe \"Oxford English Dictionary\" cited the first known usage in the English language to a Scottish newspaper: the \"People's Journal\" in 1848: \"A war among the great powers is now necessarily a world-war.\" The term \"world war\" had been used in 1850 by Karl Marx and his associate, Friedrich Engels, in \"The Class Struggles in France\". Rasmus B. Anderson in 1889 described an episode in Teutonic mythology as a “world war” (Swedish: \"världskrig\"), justifying this description by a line in an Old Norse epic poem, \"Völuspá: folcvig fyrst i heimi\" (\"The first great war in the world\".) German writer August Wilhelm Otto Niemann had used the term \"world war\" in the title of his anti-British novel, \"Der Weltkrieg: Deutsche Träume\" (\"The World War: German Dreams\") in 1904, published in English as \"The Coming Conquest of England\".\n\nIn English, the term \"First World War\" had been used by Charles à Court Repington, as a title for his memoirs (published in 1920); he had noted his discussion on the matter with a Major Johnstone of Harvard University in his diary entry of September 10, 1918.\n\nThe term \"World War I\" was coined by \"Time\" magazine on page 28b of its June 12, 1939 issue. In the same article, on page 32, the term \"World War II\" was first used speculatively to describe the upcoming war. The first use for the actual war came in its issue of September 11, 1939. One week earlier, on September 4, the day after France and the United Kingdom declared war on Germany, the Danish newspaper \"Kristeligt Dagblad\" used the term on its front page, saying \"The Second World War broke out yesterday at 11 a.m.\"\n\nSpeculative fiction authors had been noting the concept of a Second World War in 1919 and 1920, when Milo Hastings wrote his dystopian novel, \"City of Endless Night\".\nOther languages have also adopted the \"world war\" terminology, for example; in French: \"world war\" is translated as \"guerre mondiale\", in German: \"Weltkrieg\" (which, prior to the war, had been used in the more abstract meaning of a global conflict), in Italian: \"guerra mondiale\", in Spanish and Portuguese: \"guerra mundial\", in Danish and Norwegian: \"verdenskrig\", and in Russian: \"мировая война\" (\"mirovaya voyna\".)\n\nIt occurred from 1914 to 1918 and in terms of human technological history, the scale of World War I was enabled by the technological advances of the second industrial revolution and the resulting globalization that allowed global power projection and mass production of military hardware. Wars on such a scale have not been repeated since the onset of the Atomic Age and the resulting danger of mutually-assured destruction. It had been recognized that the complex system of opposing alliances (the German, Austro-Hungarian, and Ottoman Empires against the British, Russian, and French Empires) was likely to lead to a worldwide conflict if a war broke out. Due to this fact, a very minute conflict between two countries had the potential to set off a domino effect of alliances, triggering a world war. The fact that the powers involved had large overseas empires virtually guaranteed that such a war would be worldwide, as the colonies' resources would be a crucial strategic factor. The same strategic considerations also ensured that the combatants would strike at each other's colonies, thus spreading the wars far more widely than those of pre-Columbian times.\n\nWar crimes were perpetrated in World War I. Chemical weapons were used in the First World War despite the Hague Conventions of 1899 and 1907 having outlawed the use of such weapons in warfare. The Ottoman Empire was responsible for the Armenian genocide, the death of over one million Armenians during the First World War.\n\nThe Second World War occurred from 1939 to 1945 and is the only conflict in which atomic bombs have been used. Hiroshima and Nagasaki, in Japan, were devastated by atomic bombs dropped by the United States. Nazi Germany was responsible for genocides, most notably the Holocaust, the killing of six million Jews. The United States, the Soviet Union, and Canada deported and interned minority groups within their own borders, and largely because of the conflict, many ethnic Germans were later expelled from Eastern Europe. Japan was responsible for attacking neutral nations without a declaration of war, such as the bombing of Pearl Harbor. It is also known for its brutal treatment and killing of Allied prisoners of war and the inhabitants of Asia. It also used Asians as forced laborers and was responsible for the Nanking massacre where 250,000 civilians in the city were brutally murdered by Japanese troops. Non-combatants suffered at least as badly as or worse than combatants, and the distinction between combatants and non-combatants was often blurred by belligerents of total war in both conflicts.\n\nThe outcome of World War II had a profound effect on the course of world history. The old European empires either collapsed or were dismantled as a direct result of the wars' crushing costs and, in some cases, their fall was due to the defeat of imperial powers. The United States became firmly established as the dominant global superpower, along with its ideological foe, the Soviet Union, in close competition. The two superpowers exerted political influence over most of the world's nation-states for decades after the end of the Second World War. The modern international security, economic, and diplomatic system was created in the aftermath of the wars.\n\nInstitutions such as the United Nations were established to collectivize international affairs, with the explicit goal of preventing another outbreak of general war. The wars had also greatly changed the course of daily life. Technologies developed during wartime had a profound effect on peacetime life as well, such as by advances in jet aircraft, penicillin, nuclear energy, and electronic computers.\n\nSince the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki during the Second World War, there has been a widespread and prolonged fear of a potential Third World War between nuclear-armed powers. The Third World War is generally considered a successor to the Second World War and is often suggested to become a nuclear war, devastating in nature and likely much more violent than the First World War and the Second World War combined; in 1947, Albert Einstein commented that \"I know not with what weapons World War III will be fought, but World War IV will be fought with sticks and stones.\" It has been anticipated and planned for by military and civil authorities and has been explored in fiction in many countries. Concepts have ranged from purely-conventional scenarios, to limited use of nuclear weapons, to the complete destruction of the planet's surface.\n\nVarious former government officials, politicians, authors, and military leaders (including the following people: James Woolsey Alexandre de Marenches, Eliot Cohen, and Subcomandante Marcos) have attempted to apply the labels of the “Third World War” and “Fourth World War” to various past and present global wars since the closing of the Second World War, for example, the Cold War and the War on Terror, respectively. Among these are former American, French, and Mexican government officials, military leaders, politicians, and authors: Despite their efforts, none of these wars are commonly deemed world wars.\n\nWars described by some historians as \"World War Zero\" include the Seven Years' War and the onset of the Late Bronze Age collapse.\n\nThe Second Congo War (1998–2003) involved nine nations and led to ongoing low-level warfare despite an official peace and the first democratic elections in 2006. It has often been referred to as \"Africa's World War\". During the early-21st century the Syrian Civil War and the Iraqi Civil War and their worldwide spillovers are sometimes described as proxy wars waged between the United States and Russia, which led some commentators to characterize the situation as a \"proto-world war\" with nearly a dozen countries embroiled in two overlapping conflicts.\n\nThe two world wars of the 20th century had caused unprecedented casualties and destruction across the theaters of conflict. There have been several wars that occurred with as many or more deaths than in the First World War (16,563,868 — 40,000,000), including:\n\nThere have been numerous wars spanning two or more continents throughout history, including:\n\n\n"}
