{"id": "38520536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38520536", "title": "1751 in philosophy", "text": "1751 in philosophy\n\n1751 in philosophy\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25689234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25689234", "title": "Arsen of Iqalto", "text": "Arsen of Iqalto\n\nArsen Iqaltoeli or Arsen of Iqalto () (died c. 1127) was a Georgian churchman, calligrapher and religious author with noticeable role in the ecclesiastic life of Georgia in the reign of David IV \"the Builder\" (r. 1089—1125) with whom he collaborated in rearing the Georgian monastic academes. His formidable efforts at translating and compiling major doctrinal and polemical work from Greek gave a novel impetus to the Georgian patristic and philosophical literature. Iqaltoeli is canonized by the Georgian Orthodox Church, which commemorates him on February 6 (19).\n\nArsen is apparently the same person as Arsen Vachesdze mentioned in several manuscripts. Furthermore, some Georgian scholars identify him with Arsen Beri (Arsenius \"the Monk\"; fl. 1100), the author of the metaphrastic revision of \"The Life of Saint Nino\". According to historic tradition Arsen was born in Iqalto in the province of Kakheti, east of Tbilisi, Georgia's modern capital. He was educated in Constantinople at the Mangana academy, the centre of Byzantine philosophical activity and classical learning, and served as a monk on the Black Mountain near Antioch under the tutelage of Ephraim the Minor. Around 1114, Iqaltoeli, along with several other Georgian repatriate monks, responded to King David IV's call to join the reconstructed Georgian church. Along with John of Petrizos, Iqaltoeli brought the Byzantine philosophical tradition to the newly founded Georgian academe at Gelati and helped found a similar academy at Iqalto. Finally he established himself at the Shio-Mgvime monastery in Kakheti.\n\nIqaltoeli probably played a key role in the debate between Armenian and Georgian churchmen organized by David IV in a futile attempt to reconcile doctrinal differences between the two churches in 1123. He outlived David and composed the king's epitaph.\n\nMost of Iqaltoeli's work both abroad and in Georgia consists of translations of major doctrinal and polemical work, which he compiled as his massive \"Dogmatikon\", \"a book of teachings\", influenced by Aristotelianism. The most complete surviving manuscript of this work (S-1463) dates to the 12th-13th century and includes sixteen key authors, such as Anastasius Sinaita, John of Damascus, Theodore Abucara, Michael Psellos, Cyril of Alexandria, Nikitas Stithatos, Pope Leo the Great and others.\n"}
{"id": "22844503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22844503", "title": "Blue Obelisk", "text": "Blue Obelisk\n\nBlue Obelisk is an informal group of chemists who promote open data, open source, and open standards; it was initiated by Peter Murray-Rust and others in 2005. Multiple open source cheminformatics projects associate themselves with the Blue Obelisk, among which, in alphabetical order, Avogadro, Bioclipse, cclib, Chemistry Development Kit, GaussSum, JChemPaint, JOELib, Kalzium, Openbabel, OpenSMILES, and UsefulChem.\n\nThe project has handed out personal awards for achievements in promoting Open Data, Open Source and Open Standards. Among those who received a Blue Obelisk Award are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21524318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21524318", "title": "Blue skies research", "text": "Blue skies research\n\nBlue skies research (also called blue sky science) is scientific research in domains where \"real-world\" applications are not immediately apparent. It has been defined as \"research without a clear goal\" and \"curiosity-driven science\". It is sometimes used interchangeably with the term \"basic research\". Proponents of this mode of science argue that unanticipated scientific breakthroughs are sometimes more valuable than the outcomes of agenda-driven research, heralding advances in genetics and stem cell biology as examples of unforeseen benefits of research that was originally seen as purely theoretical in scope. Because of the inherently uncertain return on investment, blue-sky projects are politically and commercially unpopular and tend to lose funding to more reliably profitable or practical research.\n\nSupport for blue skies research has varied over time, ultimately becoming subject to the political process, in countries such as the United States, the United Kingdom, and India. Vannevar Bush's 1945 report, \"Science: The Endless Frontier\", made the argument for the value of basic research in the postwar era, and was the basis for many appeals to the federal funding of basic research. The 1957 launch of Sputnik prompted the United States Air Force Office of Scientific Research to sponsor blue skies research into the 1960s. By the 1970s, financial strains brought pressure on public expenditure on the sciences, first in the UK and the Netherlands, and by the 1990s in Germany and the United States.\n\nIn 1980, British Petroleum (known as BP after 2000) established a blue skies research initiative called the Venture Research Unit, headed by particle physicist Donald Braben. Braben controversially challenged peer review as the mechanism for establishing funding, emphasizing the selection of researchers whose proposals \"could radically change the way we think about something important.\"\n\nIn 2005, Mark Walport, director of the Wellcome Trust and former Professor of Medicine at Imperial College, London warned that excessive emphasis on agenda-driven research could jeopardise serendipitous advances in science:\n\nThe Government is right to recognise the importance of science and technology, but I think it is a mistake to try to ring-fence funds. There is a serious danger that we will spend money on projects that are less good. It is absolutely key that funding is used to support the best scientists with the best ideas.\n\nWhen UK research councils introduced a requirement that grant application include a 2-page statement on the economic impact of the proposed work, 20 scientists, including 1996 Nobel laureate Harold Kroto, wrote a public letter to \"Times Higher Education\" condemning the requirement and calling for peer reviewers to ignore the additional documentation.\n\nThe Royal Society grants up to 1 million pounds sterling annually in \"Theo Murphy Blue Skies awards\" to fund \"research which is considered to be original and exciting but lacks a sufficient evidence base in the literature to be supported by traditional grant schemes.\"\n\nThe UK-based Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) operates a program called the IDEAS Factory, intended to promote \"blue sky, curiosity-led research.\"\n\nThe international Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) holds a \"Blue Sky Forum\" every decade.\n\nOwing to its radical nature, blue sky science may challenge accepted scientific paradigms and introduce entirely new fields of study. It has been the inspiration for numerous works of science fiction. It has sometimes been concerned with topics such as unexplained phenomena and the impact of future technologies upon society, asking questions such as \"How would a spacecraft traverse a black hole and where would it arrive upon leaving it?\" and \"Will the universe end, or will it just expand ever outwards for eternity?\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7250479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7250479", "title": "Bohdan Urbankowski", "text": "Bohdan Urbankowski\n\nBohdan Urbankowski (born 19 May 1943 in Warsaw) is a Polish writer, poet and philosopher.\n\nAn opposition activist in People's Republic of Poland, he received several awards for his publications, most of which were published underground (\"bibuła\").\n\nThe author of over 40 books, including many biographies including those of Adam Mickiewicz, Józef Piłsudski and John Paul II.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "741028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=741028", "title": "Causal theory of reference", "text": "Causal theory of reference\n\nA causal theory of reference is a theory of how terms acquire specific referents based on evidence. Such theories have been used to describe many referring terms, particularly logical terms, proper names, and natural kind terms. In the case of names, for example, a causal theory of reference typically involves the following claims:\n\n\nWeaker versions of the position (perhaps not properly called \"causal theories\"), claim merely that, in many cases, events in the causal history of a speaker's use of the term, including when the term was first acquired, must be considered to correctly assign references to the speaker's words.\n\nCausal theories of names became popular during the 1970s, under the influence of work by Saul Kripke and Keith Donnellan. Kripke and Hilary Putnam also defended an analogous causal account of natural kind terms.\n\nIn lectures later published as \"Naming and Necessity\", Kripke provided a rough outline of his causal theory of reference for names. Although he refused to explicitly endorse such a theory, he indicated that such an approach was far more promising than the then-popular descriptive theory of names introduced by Russell, according to which names are in fact disguised definite descriptions. Kripke argued that in order to use a name successfully to refer to something, you do not have to be acquainted with a uniquely identifying description of that thing. Rather, your use of the name need only be caused (in an appropriate way) by the naming of that thing.\n\nSuch a causal process might proceed as follows: the parents of a newborn baby name it, pointing to the child and saying \"we'll call her 'Jane'.\" Henceforth everyone calls her 'Jane'. With that act, the parents give the girl her name. The assembled family and friends now know that 'Jane' is a name which refers to Jane. This is referred to as Jane's dubbing, naming, or initial baptism.\n\nHowever, not everyone who knows Jane and uses the name 'Jane' to refer to her was present at this naming. So how is it that when \"they\" use the name 'Jane', they are referring to Jane? The answer provided by causal theories is that there is a causal chain that passes from the original observers of Jane's naming to everyone else who uses her name. For example, maybe Jill was not at the naming, but Jill learns about Jane, and learns that her name is 'Jane', from Jane's mother, who \"was\" there. She then uses the name 'Jane' with the intention of referring to the child Jane's mother referred to. Jill can now use the name, and her use of it can in turn transmit the ability to refer to Jane to other speakers.\n\nPhilosophers such as Gareth Evans have insisted that the theory's account of the dubbing process needs to be broadened to include what are called 'multiple groundings'. After her initial baptism, uses of 'Jane' in the presence of Jane may, under the right circumstances, be considered to further ground the name ('Jane') in its referent (Jane). That is, if I am in direct contact with Jane, the reference for my utterance of the name 'Jane' may be fixed not simply by a causal chain through people who had encountered her earlier (when she was first named); it may also be indexically fixed to Jane at the moment of my utterance. Thus our modern day use of a name such as 'Christopher Columbus' can be thought of as referring to Columbus through a causal chain that terminates not simply in one instance of his naming, but rather in a series of grounding uses of the name that occurred throughout his life. Under certain circumstances of confusion, this can lead to the alteration of a name's referent (for one example of how this might happen, see Twin Earth thought experiment).\n\nCausal theories of reference were born partially in response to the widespread acceptance of Russellian descriptive theories. Russell found that certain logical contradictions could be avoided if names were considered disguised definite descriptions (a similar view is often attributed to Gottlob Frege, mostly on the strength of a footnoted comment in \"On Sense and Reference\", although many Frege scholars consider this attribution misguided). On such an account, the name 'Aristotle' might be seen as meaning 'the student of Plato and teacher of Alexander the Great'. Later description theorists expanded upon this by suggesting that a name expressed not one particular description, but many (perhaps constituting all of one's essential knowledge of the individual named), or a weighted average of these descriptions.\n\nKripke found this account to be deeply flawed, for a number of reasons. Notably:\n\n\nA causal theory avoids these difficulties. A name refers rigidly to the bearer to which it is causally connected, regardless of any particular facts about the bearer, and in all possible worlds.\n\nThe same motivations apply to causal theories in regard to other sorts of terms. Putnam, for instance, attempted to establish that 'water' refers rigidly to the stuff that we do in fact call 'water', to the exclusion of any possible identical water-like substance for which we have no causal connection. These considerations motivate semantic externalism. Because speakers interact with a natural kind such as water regularly, and because there is generally no naming ceremony through which their names are formalized, the multiple groundings described above are even more essential to a causal account of such terms. A speaker whose environment changes may thus observe that the referents of his terms shift, as described in the Twin Earth and Swamp man thought experiments.\n\nVariations of the causal theory include:\n\nGareth Evans argued that the causal theory, or at least certain common and over-simple variants of it, have the consequence that, however remote or obscure the causal connection between someone's use of a proper name and the object it originally referred to, they still refer to that object when they use the name. (Imagine a name briefly overheard in a train or café.) The theory effectively ignores context and makes reference into a magic trick. Evans describes it as a \"photograph\" theory of reference.\n\nThe links between different users of the name are particularly obscure. Each user must somehow pass the name on to the next, and must somehow \"mean\" the right individual as they do so (suppose \"Socrates\" is the name of a pet aardvark). Kripke himself notes the difficulty, John Searle makes much of it.\n\nMark Sainsbury argued for a causal theory similar to Kripke's, except that the baptised object is eliminated. A \"baptism\" may be a baptism of nothing, he argues: a name can be intelligibly introduced even if it names nothing. The causal chain we associate with the use of proper names may begin merely with a \"journalistic\" source.\n\nThe causal theory has a difficult time explaining the phenomenon of reference change. Gareth Evans cites the example of when Marco Polo unknowingly referred to the African Island as \"Madagascar\" when the natives actually used the term to refer to a part of the mainland. Evans claims that Polo clearly intended to use the term as the natives do, but somehow changed the meaning of the term \"Madagascar\" to refer to the island as it is known today. Michael Devitt claims that repeated groundings in an object can account for reference change. However, such a response leaves open the problem of cognitive significance that originally intrigued Russell and Frege.\n\nEast Asians are more likely than Americans to have intuitions about reference in line with descriptivist theories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3076755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3076755", "title": "Charles Cotin", "text": "Charles Cotin\n\nCharles Cotin or Abbé Cotin (1604 – December 1681) was a French abbé, philosopher and poet. He was made a member of the Académie française on 7 January 1655.\n\nCotin was born and died in Paris. He was a scholar of Latin, Greek, Hebrew, and Syriac, an advisor to Louis XIV, and renowned in his time for his sermons, poetry, and erudition. He frequented the Paris literary salons, particularly that of the Hôtel de Rambouillet as a friend of Mlle de Gournay, and his translation of the Song of Songs is more notable for its flavor of fashionable salons than of sacred poetry.\n\nCotin is remembered for his violent squabbles with Nicolas Boileau and Molière, who gave him a stinging satiric immortality as the character Trissotin in \"Les Femmes savantes\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1343423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1343423", "title": "Collective security", "text": "Collective security\n\nCollective security can be understood as a security arrangement, political, regional, or global, in which each state in the system accepts that the security of one is the concern of all, and therefore commits to a collective response to threats to, and breaches to peace. Collective security is more ambitious than systems of alliance security or collective defense in that it seeks to encompass the totality of states within a region or indeed globally, and to address a wide range of possible threats. While collective security is an idea with a long history, its implementation in practice has proved problematic. Several prerequisites have to be met for it to have a chance of working. It is the theory or practice of states pledging to defend one another in order to deter aggression or to exterminate transgressor if international order has been breached.\n\nCollective security is one of the most promising approaches for peace and a valuable device for power management on an international scale. Cardinal Richelieu proposed a scheme for collective security in 1629, which was partially reflected in the 1648 Peace of Westphalia. In the eighteenth century many proposals were made for collective security arrangements, especially in Europe.\n\nThe concept of a peaceful community of nations was outlined in 1795 in Immanuel Kant's \"\". Kant outlined the idea of a league of nations that would control conflict and promote peace between states. However, he argues for the establishment of a peaceful world community not in a sense that there be a global government but in the hope that each state would declare itself as a free state that respects its citizens and welcomes foreign visitors as fellow rational beings. His key argument is that a union of free states would promote peaceful society worldwide: therefore, in his view, there can be a perpetual peace shaped by the international community rather than by a world government.\n\nInternational co-operation to promote collective security originated in the Concert of Europe that developed after the Napoleonic Wars in the nineteenth century in an attempt to maintain the \"status quo\" between European states and so avoid war. This period also saw the development of international law with the first Geneva Conventions establishing laws about humanitarian relief during war and the international Hague Conventions of 1899 and 1907 governing rules of war and the peaceful settlement of international disputes.\n\nThe forerunner of the League of Nations, the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU), was formed by peace activists William Randal Cremer and Frédéric Passy in 1889. The organization was international in scope with a third of the members of parliament, in the 24 countries with parliaments, serving as members of the IPU by 1914. Its aims were to encourage governments to solve international disputes by peaceful means and arbitration and annual conferences were held to help governments refine the process of international arbitration. The IPU's structure consisted of a Council headed by a President which would later be reflected in the structure of the League.\n\nAt the start of the twentieth century two power blocs emerged through alliances between the European Great Powers. It was these alliances that came into effect at the start of the First World War in 1914, drawing all the major European powers into the war. This was the first major war in Europe between industrialized countries and the first time in Western Europe the results of industrialization (for example mass production) had been dedicated to war. The result of this industrial warfare was an unprecedented casualty level with eight and a half million members of armed services dead, an estimated 21 million wounded, and approximately 10 million civilian deaths.\n\nBy the time the fighting ended in November 1918, the war had had a profound impact, affecting the social, political and economic systems of Europe and inflicting psychological and physical damage on the continent. Anti-war sentiment rose across the world; the First World War was described as \"the war to end all wars\", and its possible causes were vigorously investigated. The causes identified included arms races, alliances, secret diplomacy, and the freedom of sovereign states to enter into war for their own benefit. The perceived remedies to these were seen as the creation of an international organization whose aim was to prevent future war through disarmament, open diplomacy, international co-operation, restrictions on the right to wage wars, and penalties that made war unattractive to nations.\n\nCollective security can be understood as a security arrangement in which all states cooperate collectively to provide security for all by the actions of all against any states within the groups which might challenge the existing order by using force. This contrasts with self-help strategies of engaging in war for purely immediate national interest. While collective security is possible, several prerequisites have to be met for it to work.\n\nCollective Security also contrasts with alliances in term of different forms. In Ph.D dissertation of Andreatta, collective security is based on the perspective of all together in a group against any one rather than on unilateral idea of some against specific others. Alliance has the form of two groups against each other as like states A+B+C against states Y+Z; however, collective security system takes form of conducting one agreement between A+B+C+Y+Z against any one of them. Moreover, it is also different from alliance since collective security is built to focus on internal regulation required universal membership while alliance is built to deter or reduce an outside threat as an exclusive institution. For alliance, states would see their allies as absolute gain and their enemies as relative gains without legal obligation. In contrast, collective security follows the case of neutrality as the whole group would be required to punish the aggressor with the hope for it not to violate general norms, in which are beyond the states' control rather than by their self-interests. Opposite with short term interest of allies fighting for a common threat, collective security tends to use universal interests for global peace. \n\nSovereign nations eager to maintain the status quo, willingly cooperate, accepting a degree of vulnerability and in some cases of minor nations, also accede to the interests of the chief contributing nations organising the collective security. Collective Security is achieved by setting up an international cooperative organisation, under the auspices of international law and this gives rise to a form of international collective governance, albeit limited in scope and effectiveness. The collective security organisation then becomes an arena for diplomacy, balance of power and exercise of soft power. The use of hard power by states, unless legitimised by the Collective Security organisation, is considered illegitimate, reprehensible and needing remediation of some kind. The collective security organisation not only gives cheaper security, but also may be the only practicable means of security for smaller nations against more powerful threatening neighbours without the need of joining the camp of the nations balancing their neighbours.\n\nThe concept of \"collective security\" forwarded by men such as Michael Joseph Savage, Martin Wight, Immanuel Kant, and Woodrow Wilson, are deemed to apply interests in security in a broad manner, to \"avoid grouping powers into opposing camps, and refusing to draw dividing lines that would leave anyone out.\" The term \"collective security\" has also been cited as a principle of the United Nations, and the League of Nations before that. By employing a system of collective security, the UN hopes to dissuade any member state from acting in a manner likely to threaten peace, thereby avoiding any conflict.\n\nCollective security selectively incorporates the concept of both balance of power and global government. However, the term \"Collective Security\" is not the same as Balance of power, mentioned in Realism theory. According to Adreatta, balance of power focuses on state's unilateral interests stoping aggression. Since states look at the world as having security dilemma due to the fear of relative gain, state does not want any state to become predominant causing a mutually restraining equilibrium. In other word, Balance of power between states opts for decentralization of power. States are separate actors who do not subordinate their autonomy or sovereignty to a central. \"Singly or in combinations reflecting the coincidence of interests, States seek to influence the pattern of power distribution and to determine their own places within that pattern.\" The expectation of order and peace comes from the belief that competing powers will somehow balance and thereby cancel each other out to produce “deterrence through equilibration.” In contrast, under collective security, states share the long term goal of global peace, reversing relationship between individual and community goals mentioned in Balance of Power theories. Balance of power fails to maintain stability led to break down of war as in the case of Napoleonic Wars and World Wars when states unilaterally decided to be unwilling or unable to fight. \n\nAt the same time, the concept of global government is about centralization. Global government is a centralized institutional system that possesses the power use of force like a well established sovereign nation state. This concept strips states of their \"standing as centers of power and policy, where issues of war and peace are concerned,\" and superimposing on them \"an institution possessed of the authority and capability to maintain, by unchallengeable force so far as may be necessary, the order and stability of a global community.\" Despite some different characteristics of balance of power theory, collective Collective security selectively incorporates both of the concepts, centralization and decentralization, which can broil down to a phrase: \"order without government.\" Thus, collective security seems to be more reliable alternative since it gathers power as a team to punish the aggressor, and it is an attempt to improve international relations and to provide solid rules under anarchy. \n\nOrganski (1960) lists five basic assumptions underlying the theory of collective security:\n\n\nMorgenthau (1948) states that three prerequisites must be met for collective security to successfully prevent war:\n\n\nAfter World War I, the first large scale attempt to provide collective security in modern times was the establishment of the League of Nations in 1919–20. The provisions of the League of Nations Covenant represented a weak system for decision-making and for collective action. According to Palmer and Perking, they pointed failure of United States in joining League of Nations and the rise of USSR outside the League as one of major reasons why it was failed under enforcement of collective security. Moreover, an example of the failure of the League of Nations' collective security is the Manchurian Crisis, when Japan occupied part of China (which was a League member). After the invasion, members of the League passed a resolution calling for Japan to withdraw or face severe penalties. Given that every nation on the League of Nations council had veto power, Japan promptly vetoed the resolution, severely limiting the LN's ability to respond. After one year of deliberation, the League passed a resolution condemning the invasion without committing the League's members to any action against it. The Japanese replied by quitting the League.\n\nA similar process occurred in 1935, when Italy invaded Abyssinia (now Ethiopia). Sanctions were passed, but Italy would have vetoed any stronger resolution. Additionally, Britain and France sought to court Italy's government as a potential deterrent to Hitler, given that Mussolini was not yet in what would become the Axis alliance of World War II. Thus, neither enforced any serious sanctions against the Italian government. Additionally, in this case and with the Japanese invasion of Manchuria, the absence of the United States from the League of Nations deprived it of another major power that could have used economic leverage against either of the aggressor states. Inaction by the League subjected it to criticisms that it was weak and concerned more with European issues (most leading members were European), and it did not deter Hitler from his plans to dominate Europe. Ethiopian Emperor Haile Selassie I continued to support collective security, as he assessed that impotence lay not in the principle but in its covenantors' commitment to honor its tenets.\n\nOne active and articulate exponent of collective security during the immediate pre-war years was the Soviet foreign minister, Maxim Litvinov. However, there are grounds for doubt about the depth of Soviet commitment to the principle as well as that of Western powers. After the Munich Agreement in September 1938 and the passivity of outside powers in the face of German occupation of the remainder of Czechoslovakia in March 1939, it was shown that the Western powers were not prepared to engage in collective security against aggression by the Axis powers together with the Soviet Union, Soviet foreign policy was revised and Litvinov was replaced as foreign minister in early May 1939 to facilitate the negotiations that led to the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact with Germany, signed by Litvinov's successor, Vyacheslav Molotov, on August 23 of that year. The war in Europe broke out a week later, with the invasion of Poland, starting on September 1, 1939. Thus, this could be seen that collective security does not always work due to the lack of commitment and unwillingness of states or International Community to act in concert (Mingst 1999).\n\nThe 1945 United Nations Charter, although containing stronger provisions for decision-making and collective military action than those of the League of Nations Covenant, does not represent a complete system of collective security, but rather a balance between collective action on the one hand and continued operation of the states system (including the continued special roles of great powers) on the other. States in UN collective security system are selective to support or oppose UN action in certain conflicts based on their self-interests. United Nations can be somehow seen as the platform for self-interest purposes for members in Security Council due to their Veto power and excessive assistance or aid. This has made those states to act unilaterally ignoring the approval, or flout orders of Security Council not to act unilaterally. The Iraq crisis is a clearer example as “Rather than seek the global interest of peace and security through stability in Iraq and the Middle East region, the domination oriented members amassed their vast economic, diplomatic and military resources, captured and brazenly subjugated Iraq to an unprecedented condominial regime serving their economic interest under Iraq Reconstruction Programme.” (Eke, 2007) In addition, lack of geographical spread of members in Security Council causes unbalancing on the role of maintenance global peace and security. The voices of small countries can be only heard, but not all policies were adopted in response to them unless they serves the great powers' interests. \n\nHowever, this does not mean collective security in the UN is completely fail. The role of the UN and collective security in general is evolving, given the rise of internal state conflicts. Since the end of World War II, there have been 111 military conflicts worldwide, but only 9 of these have involved two or more states going to war with one another. The remainder have either been internal civil wars or civil wars where other nations intervened in some manner. This means that collective security may have to evolve towards providing a means to ensure stability and a fair international resolution to those internal conflicts. Whether this will involve more powerful peacekeeping forces, or a larger role for the UN diplomatically, will likely be judged on a case-by-case basis. \n\nCollective defense is an arrangement, usually formalized by a treaty and an organization, among participant states that commit support in defense of a member state if it is attacked by another state outside the organization. NATO is the best known collective defense organization; its famous Article 5 calls on (but does not fully commit) member states to assist another member under attack. This article was invoked after the September 11 attacks on the United States, after which other NATO members provided assistance to the US War on Terror in Afghanistan.\n\nCollective defense has its roots in multiparty alliances and entails benefits as well as risks. On the one hand, by combining and pooling resources, it can reduce any single state's cost of providing fully for its security. Smaller members of NATO, for example, have leeway to invest a greater proportion of their budget on non-military priorities, such as education or health, since they can count on other members to come to their defense, if needed.\n\nOn the other hand, collective defense also involves risky commitments. Member states can become embroiled in costly wars benefiting neither the direct victim nor the aggressor. In World War I, countries in the collective defense arrangement known as the Triple Entente (France, Britain, Russia) were pulled into war quickly when Russia started full mobilization against Austria-Hungary, whose ally Germany subsequently declared war on Russia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1029178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1029178", "title": "Contextualism", "text": "Contextualism\n\nContextualism describes a collection of views in philosophy which emphasize the \"context\" in which an action, utterance, or expression occurs, and argues that, in some important respect, the action, utterance, or expression can only be understood relative to that context. Contextualist views hold that philosophically controversial concepts, such as \"meaning P\", \"knowing that P\", \"having a reason to A\", and possibly even \"being true\" or \"being right\" only have meaning relative to a specified context. Some philosophers hold that context-dependence may lead to relativism; nevertheless, contextualist views are increasingly popular within philosophy.\n\nIn ethics, \"contextualist\" views are often closely associated with situational ethics, or with moral relativism.\n\nIn architectural theory, contextualism is a theory of design wherein modern (not be confused with modernism) building types are harmonized with urban forms usual to a traditional city.\n\nIn epistemology, contextualism is the treatment of the word 'knows' as context-sensitive. Context-sensitive expressions are ones that \"express different propositions relative to different contexts of use\". For example, some terms that are relatively uncontroversially considered context-sensitive are indexicals, such as 'I', 'here', and 'now'. While the word 'I' has a constant linguistic meaning in all contexts of use, whom it refers to varies with context. Similarly, epistemic contextualists argue that the word 'knows' is context sensitive, expressing different relations in some different contexts.\n\nContextualism was introduced, in part, in order to undermine skeptical arguments that have this basic structure:\nContextualist solution is not to deny any premise, nor to say that the argument does not follow, but link the truth value of (3) to the context, and say that we can refuse (3) in context—like everyday conversational context—where we have different requirements to say we know.\n\nThe main tenet of contextualist epistemology, no matter what account of knowledge it is wedded to, is that knowledge attributions are context-sensitive. Then the truth values of out term \"know\" depend on the context in which it is used . We can realize that in the context in which the standards to claim truthfully knowledge are so high—e. e., in skeptical context—if we said something like 'I know that I have hands' then this statement would be false. Nevertheless, if we utter the same proposition in an ordinary context—e.g., in a cafe with friends--, where lower standards are in place , the statement would be truth, even more, it's negation would be false. So, only when we participate in philosophical discourses of the skeptical sort, do we seem to lose our knowledge. However, once we leave the skeptical context, we can truthfully say we have knowledge.\n\nThat is, when we attribute knowledge to someone, the context in which we use the term 'knowledge' determines the standards relative to which \"knowledge\" is being attributed (or denied). If we use it in everyday conversational contexts, the contextualist maintains, most of our claims to \"know\" things are true, despite skeptic's attempts to show we know little or nothing. But if the term 'knowledge' is used when skeptical hypotheses are being discussed, we count as \"knowing\" very little, if anything. Contextualists use this to explain why skeptical arguments can be persuasive, while at the same time protecting the correctness of our ordinary claims to \"know\" things. It is important to note that this theory does not allow that someone can have knowledge at one moment and not the other, for this would hardly be a satisfying epistemological answer. What contextualism entails is that in one context an utterance of a knowledge attribution can be true, and in a context with higher standards for knowledge, the same statement can be false. This happens in the same way that 'I' can correctly be used (by different people) to refer to different people at the same time.\n\nWhat varies with context is how well-positioned a subject must be with respect to a proposition to count as \"knowing\" it. Contextualism in epistemology then is a semantic thesis about how 'knows' works in English, not a theory of what knowledge, justification, or strength of epistemic position consists in. However, epistemologists combine contextualism with views about what knowledge is to address epistemological puzzles and issues, such as skepticism, the Gettier problem, and the Lottery paradox.\n\nContextualist accounts of knowledge became increasingly popular toward the end of the 20th century, particularly as responses to the problem of skepticism. Contemporary contextualists include Michael Blome-Tillmann, Michael Williams, Stewart Cohen, Keith DeRose, David Lewis, Gail Stine, and George Mattey.\n\nThus, the standards for attributing knowledge to someone, the contexualist claims, vary from one user's context to the next. Thus, if I say \"John knows that his car is in front of him\", the utterance is true if and only if (1) John believes that his car is in front of him, (2) the car is in fact in front of him, and (3) John meets the epistemic standards that my (the speaker's) context selects. This is a loose contextualist account of knowledge, and there are many significantly different theories of knowledge that can fit this contextualist template and thereby come in a contextualist form.\n\nFor instance, an evidentialist account of knowledge can be an instance of contextualism if it's held that strength of justification is a contextually varying matter. And one who accepts a relevant alternative's account of knowledge can be a contextualist by holding that what range of alternatives are relevant is sensitive to conversational context. DeRose adopts a type of modal or \"safety\" (as it has since come to be known) account on which knowledge is a matter of one's belief as to whether or not p is the case matching the fact of the matter, not only in the actual world, but also in the sufficiently close possible worlds: Knowledge amounts to there being no \"nearby\" worlds in which one goes wrong with respect to p. But how close is sufficiently close? It's here that DeRose takes the modal account of knowledge in a contextualist direction, for the range of \"epistemically relevant worlds\" is what varies with context: In high standards contexts one's belief must match the fact of the matter through a much wider range of worlds than is relevant to low standards contexts.\n\nIt is claimed that neurophilosophy has the goal of \"contextualizing\". \"We must contextualize questions usually dealt with in the physical and epistemological domains into the context of the empirical domain, the domain of observation in third-person perspective.\" \"Rather than approaching the metaphysical and epistemological issues [about the nature and features of brain and mind] from a mind-based (as in traditional philosophy) or brain-reductive (as in neuroscience) perspective, we therefore pursue a brain-based strategy and thus a non-reductive neurophilosophy.\" \"The various arguments against the material or lphysicalistic view of consciousness...are directly compared with the empirical data and are thus put into the empirical, that is, neuroscientific context of consciousness.\"\n\nHowever, contextualist epistemology has been criticized by several philosophers. Contextualism is opposed to any general form of \"Invariantism\", which claims that knowledge is not context-sensitive (i.e. it is invariant). More recent criticism has been in the form of rival theories, including \"Subject-Sensitive Invariantism\" (SSI), mainly due to the work of John Hawthorne (2004), and \"Interest-Relative Invariantism\" (IRI), due to Jason Stanley (2005). SSI claims that it is the context of the subject of the knowledge attribution that determines the epistemic standards, whereas Contextualism maintains it is the attributor. IRI, on the other hand, argues that it is the context of the practical interests of the subject of the knowledge attribution that determines the epistemic standards. Stanley writes that bare IRI is \"simply the claim that whether or not someone knows that \"p\" may be determined in part by practical facts about the subject's environment.\" (\"Contextualism\" is a misnomer for either form of Invariantism, since \"Contextualism\" among epistemologists is considered to be restricted to a claim about the context-sensitivity of knowledge attributions (or the word \"knows\"). Thus, any view which maintains that something other than knowledge attributions are context-sensitive is not, strictly speaking, a form of Contextualism.) DeRose (2009) responds to recent attacks on contextualism, and argues that contextualism is superior to these recent rivals.\n\nAn alternative to contextualism called contrastivism has been proposed by Jonathan Schaffer. Contrastivism, like contextualism, uses semantic approaches to tackle the problem of skepticism.\n\nRecent work in the new field of experimental philosophy has taken an empirical approach to testing the claims of contextualism and related views. This research has proceeded by conducting experiments in which ordinary non-philosophers are presented with vignettes which involve a knowledge ascription. Participants are then asked to report on the status of that knowledge ascription. The studies address contextualism by varying the context of the knowledge ascription, e.g., how important it is that the agent in the vignette has accurate knowledge.\n\nIn the studies completed up to this point, no support for contextualism has been found. This critique of contextualism can be summed up as: stakes have no impact on evidence. More specifically, non-philosophical intuitions about knowledge attributions are not affected by the importance to the potential knower of the accuracy of that knowledge. Some may argue that these empirical studies for the most part have not been well designed for testing contextualism, which claims that the context of the attributor of \"knowledge\" affects the epistemic standards that govern their claims. Because most of the empirical studies don't vary the stakes for the attributor, but for the subject being described, these studies are more relevant to the evaluation of John Hawthorne's \"Subject-Sensitive Invariantism\" or Jason Stanley's \"Interest-Relative Invariantism\"—views on which the stakes for the putative subject of knowledge can affect whether that subject knows—than they are of contextualism. However, Feltz & Zarpentine (forthcoming) have tested the stakes for both the subject and the attributor, and the results are not in keeping with contextualism. Experimental work continues to be done on this topic.\n\n"}
{"id": "8852981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8852981", "title": "Continuity thesis", "text": "Continuity thesis\n\nIn the history of ideas, the continuity thesis is the hypothesis that there was no radical discontinuity between the intellectual development of the Middle Ages and the developments in the Renaissance and early modern period. Thus the idea of an intellectual or scientific revolution following the Renaissance is, according to the continuity thesis, a myth. Some continuity theorists point to earlier intellectual revolutions occurring in the Middle Ages, usually referring to the European Renaissance of the 12th century as a sign of continuity. Despite the many points that have been brought up by proponents of the continuity thesis, a majority of scholars still support the traditional view of the Scientific Revolution occurring in the 16th and 17th centuries.\n\nThe idea of a continuity, rather than contrast between medieval and modern thought, begins with Pierre Duhem, the French physicist and philosopher of science. It is set out in his ten volume work on the history of science, \"Le système du monde: histoire des doctrines cosmologiques de Platon à Copernic\". Unlike many former historians such as Voltaire and Condorcet, who did not consider the Middle Ages to be of much intellectual importance , he tried to show that the Roman Catholic Church had helped foster the development of Western science. His work was prompted by his research into the origins of statics, where he encountered the works of medieval mathematicians and philosophers such as Nicole Oresme and Roger Bacon. He consequently came to regard them as the founders of modern science, their having in his view anticipated many of the discoveries of Galileo and later thinkers. Duhem concluded that \"the mechanics and physics of which modern times are justifiably proud proceed, by an uninterrupted series of scarcely perceptible improvements, from doctrines professed in the heart of the medieval schools.\"\n\nAnother notable supporter of the continuity thesis was George Sarton (1884–1956). In \"The History of Science and the New Humanism\" (1931), George Sarton put much stress on the historical continuity of science. Sarton further noted that the development of science stagnated during the Renaissance, due to Renaissance humanism putting more emphasis on form over fact, grammar over substance, and the adoration of ancient authorities over empirical investigation. As a result, he stated that science had to be introduced to Western culture twice: first in the 12th century during the Arabic–Latin translation movement, and again in the 17th century during what became known as the \"Scientific Revolution\". He said this was due to the first appearance of science being swept away by Renaissance humanism before science had to be re-introduced again in the 17th century.\n\nSarton wrote in the \"Introduction to the History of Science\":\n\nMore recently the Australian mathematician and historian of science James Franklin has argued that the idea of a European Renaissance is a myth. He characterizes the myth as the view that around the 15th century:\n\nHe claims that the Renaissance was in fact a period when thought declined significantly, bringing to an end a period of advance in the late Middle Ages, and that the twelfth century was the \"real, true, and unqualified renaissance\". For example, the rediscovery of ancient knowledge, which the later Italian humanists claimed for themselves, was actually accomplished in the 12th century.\n\nFranklin cites many examples of scientific advances in the medieval period that predate or anticipate later 'discoveries'. For example, the first advances in geometrical optics and mechanics were in the 12th century. The first steps in understanding motion, and continuous variation in general, occurred in the 14th century with the work of the scientists of the Merton School, at Oxford in the 1330s and 1340s. (Franklin notes that there is no phrase in ancient Greek or Latin equivalent to \"kilometres per hour\"). Nicole Oresme, who wrote on theology and money, devoted much of his effort to science and mathematics and invented graphs, was the first to perform calculations involving probability, and the first to compare the workings of the universe to a clock. Franklin emphasises how much of later thought, not only in science, was built on a foundation of revived scholasticism, not Renaissance humanism.\n\nBut little of importance occurs in any other branches of science in the two centuries between Oresme and Copernicus. Like other historians of this period, Franklin attributes the decline to the plague of 1348–1350, (the black death), which killed a third of the people in Europe. Johan Huizinga's examination of this period, \"The Waning of the Middle Ages\", suggests a tendency towards elaborate theory of signs, which Franklin compares with the degeneracy of modern Marxism. He cites the late Renaissance naturalist Aldrovandi, who considered his account of the snake incomplete until he had treated it in its anatomical, heraldic, allegorical, medicinal, anecdotal, historical and mythical aspects. He marks the 15th century as coinciding with the decline of literature. Chaucer died in 1400; the next writers that are widely read are Erasmus, More, Rabelais and Machiavelli, just after 1500. \"It is hard to think of any writer in English between Chaucer and Spenser who is now read even by the most enthusiastic students. The gap is almost two hundred years.\" He points to the development of astrology and alchemy in the heyday of the Renaissance.\n\nFranklin concedes that in painting the Renaissance really did excel, but that unfortunately the artistic skill of the Renaissance concealed its incompetence in anything else. He cites Da Vinci, who was supposed to be good at everything, but who on examination, \"had nothing of importance to say on most subjects\". (A standard history of mathematics, according to Franklin (E. T. Bell's \"The Development of Mathematics\", 1940), says that \"Leonardo's published jottings on mathematics are trivial, even puerile, and show no mathematical talent whatever.\") The invention of printing he compares to television, which produced \"a flood of drivel catering to the lowest common denominator of the paying public, plus a quantity of propaganda paid for by the sponsors\".\n\nThe philosopher and historian Robert Pasnau makes a similar, but more extreme claim that \"modernity came in the late twelfth century, with Averroes' magisterial revival of Aristotle and its almost immediate embrace by the Latin West.\"\n\nPasnau argues that in some branches of 17th century philosophy, the insights of the scholastic era fall into neglect and disrepute. He disputes the modernist view of medieval thought as subservient to the views of Aristotle. By contrast \"scholastic philosophers agree among themselves no more than does any group of philosophers from any historical period.\" Furthermore, the almost unknown period between 1400 and 1600 was not barren, but gave rise to vast quantities of material, much of which still survives. This complicates any generalizations about the supposedly novel developments in the seventeenth-century. He claims that the concerns of scholasticism are largely continuous with the central themes of the modern era, that early modern philosophy, though different in tone and style, is a natural progression out of later medieval debates, and that a grasp of the scholastic background is essential to an understanding of the philosophy of Descartes, Locke, and others.\n\nIn 1973, A. C. Graham criticized the notion of \"modern science\", arguing that \"The question may also be raised whether Ptolemy or even Copernicus and Kepler were in principle any nearer to modern science than the Chinese and the Maya, or indeed than the first astronomer, whoever he may have been, who allowed observations to outweigh numerological considerations of symmetry in his calculations of the month and the year.\" In 1999, George Saliba, in his review of Toby E. Huff's \"The Rise of Early Modern Science: Islam, China and the West\", also criticized the notion of \"modern science\", arguing how one would define terms like \"modern science\" or \"modernity\". After quoting Graham, Saliba notes that \"the empirical emphasis placed by that very first astronomer on the value of his observations set the inescapable course to modern science. So where would the origins of modern science then lie?\"\n\nIn \"The Foundations of Modern Science in the Middle Ages\", Edward Grant argues that the origins of modern science lie in the Middle Ages and was due to a combination of four factors:\n\nGary Hatfield, in his \"Was the Scientific Revolution Really a Revolution of Science?\", argues that while the \"Scientific Revolution\" of the 17th century did have several individual \"revolutions\", he does not consider the period to be a \"scientific\" revolution. Some of his reasons include science still being tied to metaphysics at the time, experimental physics not being separated from natural philosophy until the end of the 18th century, and comparable individual \"revolutions\" in different sciences continued occurring before and after the 17th century, such as the optical revolution of Faraday and Maxwell.\n\nAnother contrary view has been recently proposed by Arun Bala in his dialogical history of the birth of modern science. Bala proposes that the changes involved in the Scientific Revolution — the mathematical realist turn, the mechanical philosophy, the atomism, the central role assigned to the Sun in Copernican heliocentrism — have to be seen as rooted in multicultural influences on Europe. He sees specific influences in Alhazen's physical optical theory, Chinese mechanical technologies leading to the perception of the world as a machine, the Hindu-Arabic numeral system, which carried implicitly a new mode of mathematical atomic thinking, and the heliocentrism rooted in ancient Egyptian religious ideas associated with Hermeticism. Bala argues that by ignoring such multicultural impacts we have been led to a Eurocentric conception of the Scientific Revolution. Critics note that lacking documentary evidence of transmission of specific scientific ideas, Bala's model will remain \"a working hypothesis, not a conclusion\".\n"}
{"id": "2692103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2692103", "title": "Corinne Heline", "text": "Corinne Heline\n\nCorinne Heline (August 18, 1882 in Atlanta, Georgia – July 26, 1975) was an American author, Christian mystic, and occultist who published 28 books.\n\nBorn to the well-to-do Duke family, part of the aristocracy of the Old South, she received a large inheritance at age 16 that allowed her to self-publish her works.\n\nHeline received a classical and religious education. She was a lifelong student of the ancient mysteries. Rosicrucian Initiate Max Heindel became her teacher at Mount Ecclesia, where she met another New Age pioneer, Theodore Heline, who became her husband in 1938 and undertook the publication of her mystical and occult writings.\n\nHer magnum opus \"The New Age Bible Interpretation\" (1954) in seven volumes was followed by many other works interpreting the ancient wisdom. She is known worldwide among students of esotericism and occultism, and also in New Age circles as a pioneer, opening the way to vast new fields of investigation related to the coming [Age of Aquarius].\n\nHeline joined the New Age Bible and Philosophy Center at Santa Monica, California, which took the motto \"Devoted to studies designed to aid the modern seeker to a spiritual reorientation in the Light of the Ancient Wisdom.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57447217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57447217", "title": "Dariusz Karłowicz", "text": "Dariusz Karłowicz\n\nDariusz Karłowicz (born 1964) is a Polish philosopher, university lecturer, columnist, and a book publisher.\nThe president of the St. Nicolas Foundation (Fundacja Świętego Mikołaja) which is an NGO involved in charitable, educational, and scientific activity.\nAn Editor-in-chief of the Polish philosophical magazine \"Political Theology\" (\"Teologia Polityczna\") which analyzes the connections and relationships between philosophy, religion, and politics.\nLecturer in political philosophy at the War Studies University in Warsaw.\nCo-author of a weekly television program \"Trzeci Punkt Widzenia\" on the channel TVP Kultura (on the public television).\nA regular columnist in the weekly Sieci (one of the largest weekly magazines in Poland).\nA member of the policy council for the magazine First Things – the Polish edition (2006-2008),\nThe author of books and articles.\nThe winner of the Andrzej Kijowski Prize for the book \"Koniec snu Konstantyna\" (2005).\nWas awarded by the Order of Polonia Restituta for charity work (2012).\n\nBooks translated into English:\n\n"}
{"id": "606681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=606681", "title": "Dasein", "text": "Dasein\n\nDasein () is a German word that means \"being there\" or \"presence\" (German: \"da\" \"there\"; \"sein\" \"being\"), and is often translated into English with the word \"existence\". It is a fundamental concept in the existential philosophy of Martin Heidegger, particularly in his \"magnum opus\" \"Being and Time\". Heidegger uses the expression \"Dasein\" to refer to the experience of being that is peculiar to human beings. Thus it is a form of being that is aware of and must confront such issues as personhood, mortality and the dilemma or paradox of living in relationship with other humans while being ultimately alone with oneself.\n\nIn German, \"Dasein\" is the vernacular term for \"existence\", as in \"I am pleased with my existence\" (\"Ich bin mit meinem Dasein zufrieden\"). The term has been used by several philosophers before Heidegger, most notably Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, with the meaning of human \"existence\" or \"presence\". It is derived from \"da-sein\", which literally means \"being-there/there-being\"—though Heidegger was adamant that this was an inappropriate translation of \"Dasein\".\nDasein for Heidegger can be a way of being involved with and caring for the immediate world in which one lives, while always remaining aware of the contingent element of that involvement, of the priority of the world to the self, and of the evolving nature of the self itself.\n\nThe opposite of this authentic self is everyday and inauthentic Dasein, the forfeiture of one's individual meaning, destiny and lifespan, in favour of an (escapist) immersion in the public everyday world—the anonymous, identical world of the They and the Them.\n\nIn harmony with Nietzsche's critique of the subject, as something definable in terms of consciousness, Heidegger distinguished Dasein from everyday consciousness in order to emphasize the critical importance \"Being\" has for our understanding and interpretation of the world, and so on.\n\"This entity which each of us is himself…we shall denote by the term “Dasein”\" (Heidegger, trans. 1927/1962, p.27).\n\n\"[Dasein is] that entity which in its Being has this very Being as an issue…\" (Heidegger, trans. 1927/1962, p.68).\nHeidegger sought to use the concept of \"Dasein\" to uncover the primal nature of \"Being\" (\"Sein\"), agreeing with Nietzsche and Dilthey that \"Dasein\" is always a being engaged in the world: neither a subject, nor the objective world alone, but the coherence of Being-in-the-world. This ontological basis of Heidegger's work thus opposes the Cartesian \"abstract agent\" in favour of practical engagement with one's environment. Dasein is revealed by projection into, and engagement with, a personal world—a never-ending process of involvement with the world as mediated through the projects of the self.\n\nHeidegger considered that language, everyday curiosity, logical systems, and common beliefs obscure \"Dasein's\" nature from itself. Authentic choice means turning away from the collective world of Them, to face \"Dasein\", one's individuality, one's own limited life-span, one's own being. Heidegger thus intended the concept of \"Dasein\" to provide a stepping stone in the questioning of what it means to \"be\"—to have one's own being, one's own death, one's own truth.\n\nHeidegger also saw the question of \"Dasein\" as extending beyond the realms disclosed by positive science or in the history of metaphysics. “Scientific research is not the only manner of Being which this entity can have, nor is it the one which lies closest. Moreover, Dasein itself has a special distinctiveness as compared with other entities; [...] it is ontically distinguished by the fact that, in its very Being, that Being is an issue for it.”\n\"Being and Time\" stressed the ontological difference between entities and the being \"of\" entities: “Being is always the Being of an entity.” Establishing this difference is the general motif running through \"Being and Time\".\n\nSome scholars disagree with this interpretation, however, arguing that for Heidegger \"Dasein\" denoted a structured awareness or an institutional \"way of life\". Others suggest that Heidegger's early insistence on the ontological priority of Dasein was muted in his post-war writings.\n\nSome have argued for an origin of \"Dasein\" in Chinese philosophy and Japanese philosophy: according to Tomonobu Imamichi, Heidegger's concept of \"Dasein\" was inspired—although Heidegger remained silent on this—by Okakura Kakuzo's concept of \"das-in-der-Welt-sein\" (being-in-the-worldness, worldliness) expressed in \"The Book of Tea\" to describe Zhuangzi's Taoist philosophy, which Imamichi's teacher had offered to Heidegger in 1919, after having followed lessons with him the year before.\n\nFor Karl Jaspers, the term \"\"Dasein\" meant existence in its most minimal sense, the realm of objectivity and science, in opposition to what Jaspers called \"Existenz\", the realm of authentic being. Due to the drastically different use of the term \"Dasein\"\" between the two philosophers, there is often some confusion in students who begin with either Heidegger or Jaspers and subsequently study the other.\n\nIn \"Philosophy\" (3 vols, 1932), Jaspers gave his view of the history of philosophy and introduced his major themes. Beginning with modern science and empiricism, Jaspers points out that as we question reality, we confront borders that an empirical (or scientific) method can simply not transcend. At this point, the individual faces a choice: sink into despair and resignation, or take a leap of faith toward what Jaspers calls \"Transcendence\". In making this leap, individuals confront their own limitless freedom, which Jaspers calls \"Existenz\", and can finally experience authentic existence.\n\nEero Tarasti considered \"Dasein\" very important in \"Existential Semiotics\".\n\nJacques Lacan turned in the 1950s to Heidegger's Dasein for his characterisation of the psychoanalyst as being-for-death: (\"être-pour-la-mort\"). Similarly, he saw the analysand as searching for authentic speech, as opposed to “the subject who loses his meaning in the objectifications of discourse...[which] will give him the wherewithal to forget his own existence and his own death”.\n\nAlfred Schutz distinguished between direct and indirect social experience, emphasising that in the latter “My orientation is not towards the existence (\"Dasein\") of a concrete individual Thou. It is not towards any subjective experiences now being constituted in all their uniqueness in another's mind”,\n\nTheodor W. Adorno criticised Heidegger's concept of Dasein as an idealistic retreat from historical reality.\n\nRichard Rorty considered that with Dasein, Heidegger was creating a conservative myth of being, complicit with the Romantic elements of National Socialism.\n\n"}
{"id": "8249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8249", "title": "Definition of music", "text": "Definition of music\n\nA definition of music endeavors to give an accurate and concise explanation of music's basic attributes or essential nature and it involves a process of defining what is meant by the term \"music\". Many authorities have suggested definitions, but defining music turns out to be more difficult than might first be imagined and there is ongoing debate. A number of explanations start with the notion of music as \"organized sound\" but they also highlight that this is perhaps too broad a definition and cite examples of organized sound that are not defined as music, such as human speech, and sounds found in both natural and industrial environments . The problem of defining music is further complicated by the influence of culture in music cognition. \n\nThe \"Concise Oxford Dictionary\" defines music as \"the art of combining vocal or instrumental sounds (or both) to produce beauty of form, harmony, and expression of emotion\" . However, the music genres known as noise music and musique concrète, for instance, challenge these ideas about what constitutes music's essential attributes by using sounds not widely considered as musical, like randomly produced electronic distortion, feedback, static, cacophony, and compositional processes using indeterminacy (; ).\n\nAn oft cited notable example of the dilemma in defining music is a work entitled \"4'33\"\" (1952) by the American composer John Cage (1912–1992). The written score has three movements and directs the performer(s) to appear on stage, indicate by gesture or other means when the piece begins, then make no sound and only mark sections and the end by gesture. What is heard are only whatever ambient sounds may occur in the room. Some argue this is not music because, for example, it contains no sounds that are conventionally considered \"musical\" and the composer and performer(s) exert no control over the organization of the sounds heard . Others argue it is music because the conventional definitions of musical sounds are unnecessarily and arbitrarily limited, and control over the organization of the sounds is achieved by the composer and performer(s) through their gestures that divide what is heard into specific sections and a comprehensible form .\n\nBecause of differing fundamental concepts of music, the languages of many cultures do not contain a word that can be accurately translated as \"music,\" as that word is generally understood by Western cultures . Inuit and most North American Indian languages do not have a general term for music. Among the Aztecs, the ancient Mexican theory of rhetorics, poetry, dance, and instrumental music used the Nahuatl term \"In xochitl-in kwikatl\" to refer to a complex mix of music and other poetic verbal and non-verbal elements, and reserve the word \"Kwikakayotl\" (or cuicacayotl) only for the sung expressions . In Africa there is no term for music in Tiv, Yoruba, Igbo, Efik, Birom, Hausa, Idoma, Eggon or Jarawa. Many other languages have terms which only partly cover what Western culture typically means by the term \"music\" (). The Mapuche of Argentina do not have a word for \"music\", but they do have words for instrumental versus improvised forms (\"kantun\"), European and non-Mapuche music (\"kantun winka\"), ceremonial songs (\"öl\"), and \"tayil\" .\n\nWhile some languages in West Africa have no term for music, some West African languages accept the general concepts of music (). \"Musiqi\" is the Persian word for the science and art of music, \"muzik\" being the sound and performance of music (), though some things European-influenced listeners would include, such as Quran chanting, are excluded.\n\nBen Watson points out that Ludwig van Beethoven's \"Grosse Fuge\" (1825) \"sounded like noise\" to his audience at the time. Indeed, Beethoven's publishers persuaded him to remove it from its original setting as the last movement of a string quartet. He did so, replacing it with a sparkling \"Allegro\". They subsequently published it separately . Musicologist Jean-Jacques Nattiez considers the difference between noise and music nebulous, explaining that \"The border between music and noise is always culturally defined—which implies that, even within a single society, this border does not always pass through the same place; in short, there is rarely a consensus ... By all accounts there is no \"single\" and \"intercultural\" universal concept defining what music might be\" .\n\nAn often-cited definition of music is that it is \"organized sound\", a term originally coined by modernist composer Edgard Varèse in reference to his own musical aesthetic. Varèse's concept of music as \"organized sound\" fits into his vision of \"sound as living matter\" and of \"musical space as open rather than bounded\" . He conceived the elements of his music in terms of \"sound-masses\", likening their organization to the natural phenomenon of crystallization . Varèse thought that \"to stubbornly conditioned ears, anything new in music has always been called noise\", and he posed the question, \"what is music but organized noises?\" .\n\nThe fifteenth edition of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" states that \"while there are no sounds that can be described as inherently unmusical, musicians in each culture have tended to restrict the range of sounds they will admit.\" A human organizing element is often felt to be implicit in music (sounds produced by non-human agents, such as waterfalls or birds, are often described as \"musical\", but perhaps less often as \"music\"). The composer R. Murray states that the sound of classical music \"has decays; it is granular; it has attacks; it fluctuates, swollen with impurities—and all this creates a musicality that comes before any 'cultural' musicality.\" However, in the view of semiologist Jean-Jacques Nattiez, \"just as music is whatever people choose to recognize as such, noise is whatever is recognized as disturbing, unpleasant, or both\" . (See \"music as social construct\" below.)\"\"'\n\nLevi R. Bryant defines music not as a language, but as a marked-based, problem-solving method such as mathematics .\n\nMost definitions of music include a reference to sound and a list of universals of music can be generated by stating the elements (or aspects) of sound: pitch, timbre, loudness, duration, spatial location and texture (). However, in terms more specifically relating to music: following Wittgenstein, cognitive psychologist Eleanor Rosch proposes that categories are not clean cut but that something may be more or less a member of a category . As such the search for musical universals would fail and would not provide one with a valid definition . This is primarily because other cultures have different understandings in relation to the sounds that English language writers refer to as music.\n\nMany people do, however, share a general idea of music. The Websters definition of music is a typical example: \"the science or art of ordering tones or sounds in succession, in combination, and in temporal relationships to produce a composition having unity and continuity\" (\"Webster's Collegiate Dictionary\", online edition).\n\nThis approach to the definition focuses not on the \"construction\" but on the \"experience\" of music. An extreme statement of the position has been articulated by the Italian composer Luciano Berio: “Music is everything that one listens to with the intention of listening to music” . This approach permits the boundary between music and noise to change over time as the conventions of musical interpretation evolve within a culture, to be different in different cultures at any given moment, and to vary from person to person according to their experience and proclivities. It is further consistent with the subjective reality that even what would commonly be considered music is experienced as nonmusic if the mind is concentrating on other matters and thus not perceiving the sound's \"essence\" \"as music\" .\n\nIn his 1983 book, \"Music as Heard\", which sets out from the phenomenological position of Husserl, Merleau-Ponty, and Ricœur, Thomas Clifton defines music as \"an ordered arrangement of sounds and silences whose meaning is presentative rather than denotative. . . . This definition distinguishes music, as an end in itself, from compositional technique, and from sounds as purely physical objects.\" More precisely, \"music is the actualization of the possibility of any sound whatever to present to some human being a meaning which he experiences with his body—that is to say, with his mind, his feelings, his senses, his will, and his metabolism\" . It is therefore \"a certain reciprocal relation established between a person, his behavior, and a sounding object\" .\n\nClifton accordingly differentiates music from non-music on the basis of the human behavior involved, rather than on either the nature of compositional technique or of sounds as purely physical objects. Consequently, the distinction becomes a question of what is meant by musical behavior: \"a musically behaving person is one whose very being is absorbed in the significance of the sounds being experienced.\" However, \"It is not altogether accurate to say that this person is listening \"to\" the sounds. First, the person is doing more than listening: he is perceiving, interpreting, judging, and feeling. Second, the preposition 'to' puts too much stress on the sounds as such. Thus, the musically behaving person experiences musical significance by means of, or through, the sounds\" .\n\nIn this framework, Clifton finds that there are two things that separate music from non-music: (1) musical meaning is presentative, and (2) music and non-music are distinguished in the idea of personal involvement. \"It is the notion of personal involvement which lends significance to the word \"ordered\" in this definition of music\" . This is not to be understood, however, as a sanctification of extreme relativism, since \"it is precisely the 'subjective' aspect of experience which lured many writers earlier in this century down the path of sheer opinion-mongering. Later on this trend was reversed by a renewed interest in 'objective,' scientific, or otherwise non-introspective musical analysis. But we have good reason to believe that a musical experience is not a purely private thing, like seeing pink elephants, and that reporting about such an experience need not be subjective in the sense of it being a mere matter of opinion\" .\n\nClifton's task, then, is to describe musical experience and the objects of this experience which, together, are called \"phenomena,\" and the activity of describing phenomena is called \"phenomenology\" . It is important to stress that this definition of music says nothing about aesthetic standards. Music is not a fact or a thing in the world, but a meaning constituted by human beings. . . . To talk about such experience in a meaningful way demands several things. First, we have to be willing to let the composition speak to us, to let it reveal its own order and significance. . . . Second, we have to be willing to question our assumptions about the nature and role of musical materials. . . . Last, and perhaps most important, we have to be ready to admit that describing a meaningful experience is itself meaningful. \n\n\"Music, often an art/entertainment, is a total social fact whose definitions vary according to era and culture,\" according to Jean . It is often contrasted with noise. According to musicologist Jean-Jacques Nattiez: \"The border between music and noise is always culturally defined—which implies that, even within a single society, this border does not always pass through the same place; in short, there is rarely a consensus... By all accounts there is no \"single\" and \"intercultural\" universal concept defining what music might be\" . Given the above demonstration that \"there is no limit to the number or the genre of variables that might intervene in a definition of the musical,\" an organization of definitions and elements is necessary.\n\nNattiez (1990, 17) describes definitions according to a tripartite semiological scheme similar to the following:\nThere are three levels of description, the poietic, the neutral, and the esthesic:\n\nTable describing types of definitions of music :\nBecause of this range of definitions, the study of music comes in a wide variety of forms. There is the study of sound and vibration or acoustics, the cognitive study of music, the study of music theory and performance practice or music theory and ethnomusicology and the study of the reception and history of music, generally called musicology.\n\nComposer Iannis Xenakis in \"Towards a Metamusic\" (chapter 7 of \"Formalized Music\") defined music in the following way :\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4553564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4553564", "title": "Dining in", "text": "Dining in\n\nDining in is a formal military ceremony for members of a company or other unit, which includes a dinner, drinking, and other events to foster camaraderie and \"esprit de corps\".\n\nThe United States Army, the United States Navy, the United States Coast Guard, and the United States Air Force refer to this event as a dining in or dining-in. The United States Marine Corps refers to it as mess night. Other names include regimental dinner, guest night, formal mess dinner, and band night.\n\nThe dining in is a formal event for all unit members, male and female; though some specialized mess nights can be officer- or enlisted-only. The unit chaplain is usually also invited, if an invocation is needed. A unit's dining-in consists of only the members of the unit, with the possible exception of the guest(s) of honor. An optional formal dinner, known as the dining-out may include spouses and other guests. The dining-out follows the same basic rules of the dining-in, but is often tailored to minimize some of the military traditions and be more approachable to civilian guests.\n\nThe practice of dining in is thought to have formally begun in 16th-century England, in monasteries and universities; though some records indicate that militaries have held formal dinners as far back as the Roman Legions. The Vikings held formal ceremonies to honor and celebrate battles and heroes. During the 18th century, the British Army incorporated the practice of formal dining into their regimental mess system. Customs and rules of the mess were soon institutionalized rules, known as the \"Queen's Regulations\". The mess night or \"Dining in\" became a tradition in all British regiments. The Americans, taking many of their traditions from the British military, held mess nights in the 18th and 19th century, but the tradition waned after the Civil War.\n\nDining in took a temporary halt in the Navy and Marine Corps when Navy Secretary Josephus Daniels imposed prohibition of alcoholic drink, but soon the tradition was restored. During World War II, the custom was revived in the U.S. military, initially in the US Army Air Forces 8th Air Force, which was based in Britain. AAFOfficers were invited to participate in British military hosted Mess Nights and then were obligated to reciprocate.\n\nA Formal function is one at which all mess members may be required to attend and Service Personnel are on official duty.\n\nThe entitlements for official functions are as follows:\n\n12 Formal Functions per annum. Generally these are 2 x seasonal balls and 10 x other functions (e.g. Mess Dinners) as agreed by mess committees.\n\n6 Formal Functions per annum. Generally these are 2 x seasonal balls and 4 x other functions (e.g. Mess Dinners) as agreed by mess committees.\n\nThe port\ndecanters are to be placed at pre-determined places and in front of the President and Vice President. The President and Vice President will remove the stoppers simultaneously and pass the decanters in a clockwise direction/to the left. Wine stewards are to follow the decanters round the table with a jug of water, filling the glass of any diner who declines port or madeira. The glasses of the President and Vice President will be filled last, after which they are to re-stop the decanters. All stewards may then be required to leave the dining room before the President calls upon the Vice President to propose the Loyal Toast. It should be remembered that whilst the Army and RAF stand for the Loyal Toast, the RN remain seated. Also, whilst passing the port, the RN would ensure the decanter does not leave the table whilst in the RAF; it is passed from hand to hand without touching the table. In the Army, it will depend on the traditions of the Regiment.\n\nBy the late 18th century, the British Army's \"mess night\" developed formal rules, as a result of troops being stationed in remote areas. Officers elected mess committees to conduct their meals. Towards the latter part of the 19th century, attending officers were expected to adhere to the rigid etiquette of Victorian-era society.\n\nIn modern times it is sometimes known as a \"regimental dinner\".\n\nRoyal Navy officers have the privilege of remaining seated when toasting the Sovereign. Some sources state that this privilege was granted by William IV. A popular story states that Charles II was on board his namesake ship \"Royal Charles\" and had bumped his head on the low overhead of the wardroom when he stood up to reply a toast that had been drunk to him. He stated that henceforth, naval officers would never again rise to toast a British sovereign. In 1964, Queen Elizabeth II extended the privilege to the Royal Marines in honour of their 300th anniversary.\n\nThe custom of \"dining in\" to welcome new officers and \"dining out\" to farewell retiring officers originated with the British, although the term came about much later. It has been discontinued in some countries such as the United States but is still practised by the Royal Navy.\n\nThe traditional toasts after dinner for ships at sea are shown below. On certain days, an alternative toast is available but the first one is most usual.\n\nSunday ‘Absent friends’ or ‘Absent friends and those at sea’ \n\nMonday ‘Our ship at sea’ or ‘Our native land’ \n\nTuesday ‘Our Sailors’ \n\nWednesday ‘Ourselves’ (as no one is likely to concern themselves with our welfare)’ or ‘Ourselves – Our swords’ \n\nThursday ‘A bloody war or a sickly season’ \n\nFriday ‘A willing foe and sea room’ ‘Fox hunting and old port’ \n\nSaturday ‘Our Families’\n\nFor Trafalgar Night Mess Dinners, the routine varies slightly from a normal dinner night. When the main course is about to be served, the Baron of Beef is first paraded around the table behind a drummer. Similarly, before commencing the service of the sweet, the Ships of the Line are also paraded around the table in a similar fashion to the Beef. The toasts used at dinner on Trafalgar Night are:\n\nThe Royal Air Force inherited many mess traditions from the British Army as a former corps. These customs were notably passed on the US Army Air Forces during World War II as British and American crew served alongside one another in close quarters.\n\nPortions of the event tend to become quite humorous in nature, while others remain somber. Etiquette requires a diner to know what is appropriate at any given time.\n\nThe dining in follows established protocols. After a brief cocktail period of 30 to 45 minutes, the presiding officer, known as the \"President of the Mess\", announces, \"Please be seated.\" The group will then retire to the dining area to be seated.\n\nAfter tasting the meat (usually beef), the President will declare it \"tasty and fit for human consumption\", after which the meal will be served to the diners. After the dessert is finished, the President will invite the chief steward to bring forth wine and/or punch to be served, and toasting will begin. After the toasts have concluded, the floor will be opened to the levying of fines. The president and the guest of honor will have the opportunity to speak if they so desire. After this, the mess is often then returned to an open cocktail hour, and then the evening concludes with final honors.\n\nFormal toasts are the heart of the formal dining in. A junior officer, known as \"Mr/Madam Vice\", proposes a toast to the guests, at which the guests remain seated. After this, various parties will offer toasts to the Commander in Chief, to the heads of state of a visiting or host nations, to their branch of service, to the units, and to the fallen members of the military.\n\nNotice that the United States does not have a king, queen, or Prime Minister, and that the commander in chief and President are the same person.\nThe final and most solemn toast is always to fallen comrades. Often this tribute is marked with a table setting dedicated to those military members killed, captured, or missing in action.\n\nSome unusual forms of toasting are common to the U.S. and Canadian traditions. In the Toronto Scottish Regiment, for example, a loyal toast to the regiment's Colonel-in-Chief (Currently the Prince of Wales) is performed standing with one foot on the chair and one foot on the dining table, facing a portrait of the C-in-C and drinking after the piper has played. Others, particularly Scottish regiments, perform toasts in the same way with one foot on a chair and one on the table. This is a frequent form of toasting in the United States Marine Corps as well. In the Scottish form, the glass is raised, lowered, brought out, and brought in, as the words of the toast, usually including some form of \"Up\", \"Down\", \"To you\", \"To me\", are recited, and finally drunk to the cry \"Drink it up!\" or similar.\n\nViolations of the formal etiquette of the dining in are \"punished\", generally with fines. The following are examples of what could be considered \"Violations of the Mess\": \n\nAt some mess nights, violators of the mess are obliged to publicly drink from a grog bowl in front of the mess attendees. The grog is sometimes contained in a toilet bowl, consisting of various alcoholic beverages mixed together. As a more disgusting effect, the grog may also contain floating solids, such as meatballs, raw oysters, or Tootsie Rolls. The tradition of drinking grog originated with the British Navy. Grog consisted of the regulation rum ration diluted with water to discourage binge drinking. In modern times, grog comes in two varieties: alcoholic and non-alcoholic, the latter of which may contain anything that will make it less appealing to the taste, including hot sauce. For additional effect, the drinker may be required to drink from a boot.\n\nIn addition to visiting the grog bowl and paying fines, violators may be sentenced to sing songs, tell jokes, do pushups, or perform menial tasks to entertain the mess. In most cases, when a violator has been identified, he or she is given the opportunity to provide a rebuttal or defense for the violation, which rarely results in the violator being excused for the offense, and usually only results in more punishment.\n\nTraditionally, all fines collected throughout the night are split amongst the stewards that served the attendees as a token of appreciation for their efforts. The fines can also be used to pay for the drinks consumed, while some units have used the Mess Night as a fund raiser (often to pay for a ball).\n\nMembers of the mess may also be singled out for some good-natured ribbing and teasing. In some units, members go out of their way to be picked on, often wearing obvious uniform violations, such as crowns, tiaras, eye-patches, bowties and cummerbunds of the wrong color, and other items that have no place on any military uniform (although it is common for US Artillerymen to wear red socks, suspenders and even bowties, in a nod to tradition at the expense of uniform regulations). Some will attempt to leave sabotaging evidence on or around others they wish to see fined, so care must be taken to not be the butt of a joke.\n\nNavy and Marine traditions also include that no diner may leave the hall to use the restroom without permission until Mr. Vice suggests that the company \"shed a tear for Lord Admiral Nelson\", a reference to the fact that his body was preserved in a barrel of brandy after his death at Trafalgar.\n\nMost Messes attempt to furnish the night with military music and marches, with live bands if possible, or recorded music. Depending on how formal the ceremony is, the diners may be required to march to their seats.\n\nIn recent times, Marines have established a variant of the mess in a \"field environment\", substituting in mess dress for utilities and combat equipment (to include camouflage facepaint), canteen cups, and tentage, while still retaining the formal nature of the ceremony.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38025629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38025629", "title": "Eli Eduardo de Gortari", "text": "Eli Eduardo de Gortari\n\nEli Eduardo de Gortari (Mexico City, Federal District, Mexico, April 28, 1918 – July 29, 1991) was a logician, philosopher of science and engineer.\n\nElí de Gortari was a student of the Engineering School of the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM, Spanish acronym), matriculating in 1938. His goal was to become an engineer, which he achieved in two years. His commitment to public welfare led him to enroll in sanitation engineering, but he continued his studies of mathematics and philosophy. Eventually, in 1948, he would become a professor of philosophy of science. In 1949 he obtained a master's degree in philosophy and published a thesis \"The Science of Logic\" in the Soviet Union.\n\nAmong his published works are: \"The Science of Logic\" (1950); \"The Dialectic of Physics\" (1964); \"General Logic\" (1965); \"Introduction to Dialectic Logic\" (1956); \"Science in Mexican History\" (1963); \"Seven Essays on Modern Science\" (1969); \"The Dialectic Method\" (1970); \"Elements of Mathematical Logic\" (1983); \"Science and Consciousness in Mexico: 1767-1783\" (1973); \"Science Methods\" (1977); \"University Reform Today and Tomorrow\" (1987), where he recounts his battles as an education activist; and the \"Dictionary of Logic\" (1988).\n\n"}
{"id": "41469204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41469204", "title": "Epistemological Letters", "text": "Epistemological Letters\n\nEpistemological Letters was a hand-typed, mimeographed \"underground\" newsletter about quantum physics that was distributed to a private mailing list, described by the physicist John Clauser as a \"quantum subculture\", between 1973 and 1984.\n\nDistributed by a Swiss foundation, the newsletter was created because mainstream academic journals were reluctant to publish articles about the philosophy of quantum mechanics, especially anything that implied support for ideas such as action at a distance. Thirty-six or thirty-seven issues of \"Epistemological Letters\" appeared, each between four and eighty-nine pages long. Several well-known scientists published their work there, including the physicist John Bell, the originator of Bell's theorem. According to Clauser, much of the early work on Bell's theorem was published only in \"Epistemological Letters\".\n\nAccording to the Irish physicist Andrew Whitaker, a powerful group of physicists centred on Niels Bohr, Wolfgang Pauli and Werner Heisenberg made clear that \"there was no place in physics – no jobs in physics! – for anybody who dared to question the Copenhagen interpretation\" (Bohr's interpretation) of quantum theory. John Clauser writes that any inquiry into the \"wonders and peculiarities\" of quantum mechanics and quantum entanglement that went outside the \"party line\" was prohibited, in what he argues amounted to an \"evangelical crusade\". Samuel Goudsmit, editor of the prestigious \"Physical Review\" and \"Physical Review Letters\" until he retired in 1974, imposed a formal ban on the philosophical debate, issuing instructions to referees that they should feel free to reject material that even hinted at it.\n\nArticles questioning the mainstream position were therefore distributed in alternative publications, and \"Epistemological Letters\" became one of the main conduits. The newsletter was sent out by the \nL'Institut de la Méthode of the Association Ferdinand Gonseth, which had been established in honour of the philosopher . It described itself as \"an open and informal journal allowing confrontation and ripening of ideas before publishing in some adequate journal.\" According to Clauser, it announced that the usual stigma against discussing certain ideas, such as hidden-variable theories, was to be absent. The newsletter's editors included Abner Shimony.\n\nSeveral eminent physicists published their material in \"Epistemological Letters\", including John Bell, the originator of Bell's theorem. Clauser writes that much of the early work on Bell's theorem was published only in \"Epistemological Letters\". Bell's paper, \"The Theory of Local Beables\" (\"beable\", as opposed to \"observable\", referring to something that exists independently of any observer), appeared there in March 1976. Abner Shimony, John Clauser and Michael Horne published responses to it, also in the \"Letters\". Henry Stapp was another prominent physicist who wrote for the \"Letters\". H. Dieter Zeh published a paper in the \"Letters\" on the many-minds interpretation of quantum mechanics in 1981.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45463332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45463332", "title": "Folmer Wisti", "text": "Folmer Wisti\n\nFolmer Wisti f . Visti Folmer Jensen (May 8, 1908, Vroue, Denmark – October 16, 2000) was a Danish director, associate professor and philologist. He was the first Slavic philologist from Aarhus University. Wisti was the instigator and leader of the Danish Cultural Institute (originally Danish Society) from 1940 to 1983. In 1974, he founded the Foundation for International Understanding, today known as the Folmer Wisti Foundation for International Understanding.\n\nFrom 1976, he was also the organizer of conferences Europe of the regions as well as the information sheet, Regional Contact.\n\n"}
{"id": "29719956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29719956", "title": "Frederick Grinnell (biologist)", "text": "Frederick Grinnell (biologist)\n\nFrederick Grinnell (born 1945 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania) is an American cell biologist, also known for his work in bioethics. Currently, he is the Robert McLemore Professor of Medical Science in the department of cell biology at UT Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas, Texas. He took his undergraduate degree in chemistry at Clark University (1966) and Ph.D. in biochemistry at Tufts University (1970). He joined the faculty at UT Southwestern in 1972 and founded the Ethics in Science and Medicine Program and Ethics Grand Rounds in 1998.\n\nGrinnell's scientific work contributed to the discovery of the biological adhesion protein fibronectin and helped to establish the importance of fibronectin in wound repair. Subsequently, his laboratory helped popularize the use of wound exudate to analyze the human wound environment and made the discovery that chronic wounds contain degraded fibronectin and high levels of proteolytic enzymes. Subsequently, his research focused on the biomechanics of fibroblasts interacting with three dimensional collagen matrices.\n\nIn bioethics, Grinnell engages in cross-disciplinary work at the boundary between science and philosophy. His goal is to inform public policy and to advance science education and public understanding of science. He has published two books: \"The Scientific Attitude\" (now is in its 2nd edition) and \"Everyday Practice of Science: Where Intuition and Passion Meet Objectivity and Logic\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1973470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1973470", "title": "Fuzzy concept", "text": "Fuzzy concept\n\nA fuzzy concept is a concept of which the boundaries of application can vary considerably according to context or conditions, instead of being fixed once and for all. This means the concept is vague in some way, lacking a fixed, precise meaning, without however being unclear or meaningless altogether. It has a definite meaning, which can be made more precise only through further elaboration and specification - including a closer definition of the context in which the concept is used. The study of the characteristics of fuzzy concepts and fuzzy language is called \"fuzzy semantics\". The inverse of a \"fuzzy concept\" is a \"crisp concept\" (i.e. a precise concept). \n\nA fuzzy concept is understood by scientists as a concept which is \"to an extent applicable\" in a situation. That means the concept has \"gradations\" of significance or \"unsharp\" (variable) boundaries of application. A fuzzy statement is a statement which is true \"to some extent\", and that extent can often be represented by a scaled value. The best known example of a fuzzy concept around the world is an amber traffic light, and indeed fuzzy concepts are widely used in traffic control systems. The term is also used these days in a more general, popular sense - in contrast to its technical meaning - to refer to a concept which is \"rather vague\" for any kind of reason.\n\nIn the past, the very idea of reasoning with fuzzy concepts faced considerable resistance from academic elites. They did not want to endorse the use of imprecise concepts in research or argumentation. Yet although people might not be aware of it, the use of fuzzy concepts has risen gigantically in all walks of life from the 1970s onward. That is mainly due to advances in electronic engineering, fuzzy mathematics and digital computer programming. The new technology allows very complex inferences about \"variations on a theme\" to be anticipated and fixed in a program. \n\nThe new neuro-fuzzy computational methods make it possible, to identify, to measure and respond to fine gradations of significance, with great precision. It means that practically useful concepts can be coded and applied to all kinds of tasks, even if, ordinarily, these concepts are never precisely defined. Nowadays engineers, statisticians and programmers often represent fuzzy concepts mathematically, using fuzzy logic, fuzzy values, fuzzy variables and fuzzy sets.\n\nProblems of vagueness and fuzziness have probably always existed in human experience. The boundary between different things can appear blurry. Sometimes people have to think, when they are not in the best frame of mind to do it, or, they have to talk about something out there, which just isn't sharply defined. Across time, however, philosophers and scientists began to reflect about those kinds of problems, in much more systematic ways.\n\nThe ancient Sorites paradox first raised the logical problem of how we could exactly define the threshold at which a change in quantitative gradation turns into a qualitative or categorical difference. With some physical processes this threshold is relatively easy to identify. For example, water turns into steam at 100 °C or 212 °F (the boiling point depends partly on atmospheric pressure, which decreases at higher altitudes). \n\nWith many other processes and gradations, however, the point of change is much more difficult to locate, and remains somewhat vague. Thus, the boundaries between qualitatively different things may be \"unsharp\": we know that there are boundaries, but we cannot define them exactly. \n\nAccording to the modern idea of the continuum fallacy, the fact that a statement is to an extent vague, does not automatically mean that it is invalid. The problem then becomes one of how we could ascertain the kind of validity that the statement does have.\n\nThe Nordic myth of Loki's wager suggested that concepts that lack precise meanings or precise boundaries of application cannot be usefully discussed at all. However, the 20th century idea of \"fuzzy concepts\" proposes that \"somewhat vague terms\" can be operated with, since we can explicate and define the variability of their application, by assigning numbers to gradations of applicability. This idea sounds simple enough, but it had large implications.\n\nThe intellectual origins of the species of fuzzy concepts as a logical category have been traced back to a diversity of famous and less well-known thinkers, including (among many others) Eubulides, Plato, Cicero, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, Friedrich Nietzsche, Hugh MacColl, Charles S. Peirce, Max Black, Jan Łukasiewicz, Emil Leon Post, Alfred Tarski, Georg Cantor, Nicolai A. Vasiliev, Kurt Gödel, Stanisław Jaśkowski and Donald Knuth. \n\nAcross at least two and a half millennia, all of them had something to say about graded concepts with unsharp boundaries. This suggests at least that the awareness of the existence of concepts with \"fuzzy\" characteristics, in one form or another, has a very long history in human thought. Quite a few logicians and philosophers have also tried to \"analyze\" the characteristics of fuzzy concepts as a recognized species, sometimes with the aid of some kind of many-valued logic or substructural logic.\n\nAn early attempt in the post-WW2 era to create a theory of sets where set membership is a matter of degree was made by Abraham Kaplan and Hermann Schott in 1951. They intended to apply the idea to empirical research. Kaplan and Schott measured the degree of membership of empirical classes using real numbers between 0 and 1, and they defined corresponding notions of intersection, union, complementation and subset. However, at the time, their idea \"fell on stony ground\". J. Barkley Rosser Sr. published a treatise on many-valued logics in 1952, anticipating \"many-valued sets\". Another treatise was published in 1963 by Aleksandr A. Zinov'ev and others\n\nIn 1964, the American philosopher William Alston introduced the term \"degree vagueness\" to describe vagueness in an idea that results from the absence of a definite cut-off point along an implied scale (in contrast to \"combinatory vagueness\" caused by a term that has a number of logically independent conditions of application). \n\nThe German mathematician Dieter Klaua published a German-language paper on fuzzy sets in 1965, but he used a different terminology (he referred to \"many-valued sets\", not \"fuzzy sets\").\n\nTwo popular introductions to many-valued logic in the late 1960s were by Robert J. Ackermann and Nicholas Rescher respectively. Rescher’s book includes a bibliography on fuzzy theory up to 1965, which was extended by Robert Wolf for 1966-1974. Haack provides references to significant works after 1974. Bergmann provides a more recent (2008) introduction to fuzzy reasoning.\n\nUsually the Iranian-born American computer scientist Lotfi A. Zadeh (1921-2017) is credited with inventing the specific idea of a \"fuzzy concept\" in his seminal 1965 paper on fuzzy sets, because he gave a formal mathematical presentation of the phenomenon that was widely accepted by scholars.<ref>Lotfi A. Zadeh, \"Fuzzy sets\". In: \"Information and Control\", Vol. 8, June 1965, pp. 338–353.\n\n"}
{"id": "5713624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5713624", "title": "Gustav Glogau", "text": "Gustav Glogau\n\nGustav Glogau (6 June 1844, Laukischken (Kreis Labiau, Ostpreußen) - 22 March 1895, Laurion (Greece)) is a German philosopher of religion. He taught as a professor at the Halle University (1883-), Kiel University (1884-).\n\nThe name is sometime misspelled as \"Gustav Grogau\".\n\n"}
{"id": "36261566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36261566", "title": "Hobutsushu", "text": "Hobutsushu\n\nThe is a Japanese anthology of \"setsuwa\" stories compiled by the monk Tairano Yasuyori in 1179.\n\nThe stories take the form of a series of discussions between a Zen monk and an audience, and are intended to guide the reader towards satori. Among the subjects covered are the stories of Rama, derived from Indian and Chinese sources, and the fate of Murasaki Shikibu, whom Tairano condemns to hell for publishing fiction.\n"}
{"id": "15594200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15594200", "title": "Hypercyclic morphogenesis", "text": "Hypercyclic morphogenesis\n\nHypercyclic morphogenesis refers to the emergence of a higher order of self-reproducing structure or organization or hierarchy within a system, first introduced by J. Barkley Rosser, Jr. in 1991 (Chap. 12). It involves combining the idea of the \"hypercycle\", an idea due to Manfred Eigen and Peter Schuster (1979) with that of \"morphogenesis\", an idea due to D’Arcy W.Thompson (1917). The hypercycle involves the problem in biochemistry of molecules combining in a self-reacting group that is able to stay together, posited by Eigen and Schuster as the foundation for the emergence of multi-cellular organisms. Thompson saw morphogenesis as a central part of the development of an organism as cell differentiation led to new organs appearing as it develops and grows. Alan Turing (1952) would study the chemistry and mathematics involved in such a process, which would also be studied mathematically by René Thom (1972) in his formulation of catastrophe theory.\n\n"}
{"id": "50043189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50043189", "title": "Insects in music", "text": "Insects in music\n\nInsect names have appeared in music from Rimsky-Korsakov's \"Flight of the Bumblebee\" to such popular songs as \"Blue-tailed Fly\" and the folk song \"La Cucaracha\" which is about a cockroach. Insect groups mentioned include bees, ants, flies and the various singing insects such as cicadas, crickets, and beetles, while other songs refer to \"bugs\" in general.\n\nInsects including bees, cicadas, crickets and grasshoppers produce sounds, whether by flying or by stridulation, attracting human interest. Insect sounds have accordingly been the inspiration for a variety of forms of music. Among Western composers, Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov imitates the quick buzzing vibrato of the bumblebee in his famous \"Flight of the Bumblebee\"; Edvard Grieg was inspired by flies in his \"Said the Gadfly to the Fly\". Popular songs with an insect theme include \"Glow-Worm\", \"Poor Butterfly\", \"La Cucaracha\", \"The Boll Weevil\", and \"The Blue-Tailed Fly\". Operas like Puccini's \"Madama Butterfly\" and Rousel's \"Le Festin de L’Araignée\" similarly reference arthropods. Pop groups named after insects include Buddy Holly and The Crickets, The Beatles, Adam and the Ants and many others. And some fictional crickets in Western popular culture, like Jiminy Cricket and Cri-Cri have been known to sing.\n\n\"Ants Marching\" is a song by the Dave Matthews Band. The song features the themes of the monotony of everyday life being like ants marching endlessly to and fro. Both the theme and the music of the song are beloved by fans, being played over 1,000 times live in concert. Dave Matthews himself once declared, \"This song is our anthem.\"\nThe Irish folk singer Sinéad Lohan included the song \"Bee In The Bottle\" on her 1995 album \"Who Do You Think I Am\".\n\nNikolai Rimsky-Korsakov wrote \"Flight of the Bumblebee\" as an orchestral interlude for his opera \"The Tale of Tsar Saltan\", composed in 1899–1900. The piece closes Act III, Tableau 1, during which the magic Swan-Bird changes Prince Gvidon Saltanovich (the Tsar's son) into a bumblebee so that he can fly away to visit his father, who does not know that he is alive. The piece is one of the most recognizable in classical music. The fast pace of the music has given rise to its mass appeal, as well as making it difficult to play. Musicians have risen to the challenge by setting world records for the fastest performance on guitar, piano and violin.\n\nThe Canadian violinist Eric Speed broke the record for the fastest performance of the \"Flight of the Bumblebee\" at the \"Just For Laughs\" festival in Montreal on 22 July 2011, playing the piece in 53 seconds. The song has a direct connection to martial arts master Bruce Lee, who starred on the radio program Green Hornet. \"Flight\" was the show's theme music, blended with a hornet buzz created on a Theremin. The play upon which the opera was based – written by Alexander Pushkin – originally had two more insect themes: the Flight of the Mosquito and the Flight of the Fly. Neither was made into musical pieces. One was made into an illustration for the original publication.\n\nBéla Bartók's bizarrely empathetic piece, \"From the Diary of a Fly, for piano (Mikrokosmos Vol. 6/142)\", attempts to depict the actions of a fly caught in a cobweb, from the fly's perspective—i.e., as related from his diary. The buzzing sounds signify the fly's desperation to escape. The middle section of the Adagio religioso movement in Bartók's 1945 Piano Concerto No. 3 contains imitations of natural sounds of insect and bird calls.\n\nThe French Renaissance composer Josquin des Prez, working in Italy, wrote a piece in the style of a frottola entitled \"El Grillo\" (The Cricket). It is among the most frequently sung of his works.\n\nThe jazz musician and philosophy professor David Rothenberg plays duets with singing insects including cicadas, crickets, and beetles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22037234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22037234", "title": "Isagiyosa", "text": "Isagiyosa\n\nIn Japanese society, particularly in historical feudal Japan, isagiyosa (, \"purity\") is a virtue, translated with \"resolute composure\" or \"manliness\". \nIsagiyosa is the capability of accepting death with composure and equanimity. It stands besides other central virtues such as public-spiritedness (\"kō no seishin\"), loyalty (\"seijitsusa\"), diligence (\"kinbensa\") and steadiness (\"jimichisa\").\n\nCherry blossoms, because of their ephemeral nature, are a symbol of isagiyosa in the sense of embracing the transience of the world. Honda (2001) maintains that these virtues are not Japanese in particular but form a moral code common to all Asian agricultural societies.\n\n"}
{"id": "148284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148284", "title": "Jaime Balmes", "text": "Jaime Balmes\n\nJaime Luciano Balmes y Urpiá (; August 28, 1810July 9, 1848) was a philosopher, theologian, Catholic apologist, sociologist and Spanish political writer. Familiar with the doctrine of Saint Thomas Aquinas, Balmes was an original philosopher who did not belong to any particular school or stream, to whom Pius XII qualified as the \"Prince of Modern Apologetics.\"\n\nBalmes was born at Vic, in the region of Catalonia in Spain and baptized the same day in the cathedral of that city with the name of Jaime Luciano Antonio. He died in the same city.\n\nIn 1817, Balmes began his studies at the seminary in Vic: three years of Latin grammar, three of Rhetoric and, from 1822, three of Philosophy. In 1825, in Solsona, he received the tonsure from the Bishop of this city, Manuel Benito Tabernero.\n\nFrom 1825 to 1826, Balmes studied courses of Theology, also in Vic Seminary. He studied four courses of Theology, thanks to a scholarship, in the College of San Carlos at the University of Cervera.\n\nFor two years in 1830, because of the closure of the University of Cervera, Balmes continued studying in Vic, on his own. On June 8, 1833 he received his degree in theology.\n\nOn September 20, 1834, in the chapel of the episcopal palace of Vic, Balmes was ordained a priest by bishop don Pablo de Jesús Corcuera. He continued his studies in theology and of Canons, again at the University of Cervera. Finally, in 1835, he received the title of Doctor of Theology and Bachelor of Canons.\n\nBalmes then made several attempts to teach in an official way at the University of Barcelona and not get engaged for some time in Vic tutoring. Finally, the City Council appoints him, in 1837, Professor of Mathematics, a position that he held for four years. In 1839, his mother Teresa Urpiá, died. In 1841, he moved to Barcelona.\n\nThen, Balmes began his creative activity and contributed to various newspapers and magazines: \"Peace\", \"Catholic Madrid\", \"Civilization\"; and several pamphlets that attract readers attention.\n\nFrom 1841, his creative genius \"exploded\" and he developed in a few highly active months his writings and his personality, that would be admired throughout Europe.\n\nOn September 7, 1844, he wrote and published \"The true idea of value, or thoughts on the origin, the nature and variations of the prices\" in which he solved the calue paradox, clearly introducing the notion of marginal use, Balmes asked himself, \"Why a precious stone has a higher value than a piece of bread?\"\n\nHaving attacked the regent Espartero, he was exiled. On his return, he founded and edited \"El Pensamiento de la Nación\", a Catholic and conservative weekly; however, his fame rests principally on \"El Protestantismo comparado con el Catolicismo en sus relaciones con la Civilización Europea\" (Protestantism and Catholicity compared in their Effects on the Civilization of Europe), an able defence of Catholicism on the ground that it represents the spirit of obedience or order, as opposed to Protestantism, the spirit of revolt or anarchy. The book is often cited as a counter argument to historical accounts that focus on the reputed central role of the Protestant thought to the development of modern society.\n\nAccording to the \"Encyclopædia Britannica Eleventh Edition:\n\nGenerally the philosophy of Balmes is understood merely as \"philosophy of common sense\", when in reality it is something much more complex. Both in \" Fundamental Philosophy \" and in \" Elementary Philosophy \" (being this second work more informative) is the subject of certainty.\n\nBalmes divides the truth into three irreducible classes, although we speak of it as if it were only one. These are the subjective truths, the rational truths and the objective truths. The first type of truth, the subjective one, can be understood as a present reality for the subject, which is real but depends on the perception of the speaker. For example, affirming that one is cold or that one is thirsty are subjective truths. The second type, the rational one, is logical and mathematical truth, using any operation of this type as an example. Finally, the objective truth is understood as that which, although perceived by all, does not fall within the category of rational truth: to affirm that the sky is blue, or that there are trees in the forest.\n\nThe three types of truth are irreducible, and the methods of recruitment differ from one to the other. Therefore, it is necessary that the philosophy first of all consider what kind of truth we are looking for.\n\nFor Balmes there is no possibility of doubting everything: making such statement, we forget that there are a series of rules of thought that we admit as truths in order to be able to doubt. In a similar way to that posed by St Augustine or Descartes, to affirm that we doubt necessarily implies the certainty that we are doubting. In this way, doubt is also a certainty. An authentic radical skeptic is impossible, because there is no universal doubt.\n\nCertainty is natural and intuitive like doubt, and prior to philosophy. Thus, the common and natural certainty also encompasses the Cartesian philosophical certainty. To reach this certainty, the so-called \"criteria\" are necessary, the means by which we can access the truth. There are a lot of criteria for having, also, several types of truths. However, Balmes prefers to distribute them in three: the criteria of conscience, those of evidence and those of common sense. These are the criteria for accessing the three types of truth. To define the corpus of Balmes's thought as \"philosophy of common sense\" is not so much due to his conception of common sense as inherent in philosophical work, but especially because of his definition of this sense as a criterion for reaching a certainty. At this point, it is worth noting the relationship of subjective truths with criteria of conscience, rational truths with those of evidence and finally, objective truths accessible through the criterion of so-called \"common sense\".\n\nTherefore, Balmes argues that metaphysics should not be sustained only on one column, but on three that correspond to the three truths: thus, the principle of Cartesian consciousness, the \" cogito ergo sum \" is a truth subjective, while the principle of non-contradiction Aristotelian is truly rational. Finally, common sense, the intellectual instinct (perhaps it is \"intellectual instinct\" a more specific term than \"common sense\") presents the so-called objective truth. It is impossible to find a truth common to the three principles.\n\nIn this way, Balmes denies the exclusivity of the theories of philosophers: philosophy is the fullness of natural knowledge, and is rooted in being a man. To affirm, for example, that the \"cogito\" is the foundation of truth and philosophy is not in itself a wrong assertion, because it is true what it affirms, but false what it denies, because besides the \"cogito\" There are other possibilities of foundation. Balmes does not reduce this idea only to the field of philosophy, and extends it also to general human thought.\n\nIn this way, the fundamental thesis of Balmes is that there is no formula from which the universe can be detached. There is no truth from which all others arise. At this point, the three criteria can be defined more thoroughly.\n\nConsciousness is what you notice on the inside, what you think and experience. Sensations would be useless if they were not experienced in consciousness. This criterion has several characteristics: the first is the subjective nature of consciousness, that is, our perception is that of the phenomenon, not that of reality, although for Balmes, subjectivity does not imply that the certainty achieved is not true. It also has the function of pointing or presenting. Consciousness does not put us in contact with external reality, nor with others (we can not perceive – yes suppose – the existence of consciousness in others), but it presents facts, it is an absolute that dispenses with relationships. Consciousness has no objectivity or light, it is pure presence.\n\nWhen the language expresses the conscience, it betrays it, because something personal can not be expressed through something universal. Language is incapable of expressing pure consciousness, something that art can do, for example. Likewise, consciousness can not be wrong either, because we are not mistaken about the experience of it, although it can be fallible when it leaves its ground to go outside. There is no error in the internal phenomenon, but perhaps in its correspondence with the outside. Balmes, against the Cartesian animaina machina, defends that the animals also have conscience, but in his case it is reduced to the sensation, and not to the intellectualization of it. Thus, they possess only a direct consciousness, while humans -for our intellective capacity- also possess reflex consciousness, which is the capacity to reflect on the sensations of direct consciousness.\n\nFor Balmes, consciousness is the foundation of the other criteria, and all are necessarily born of it.\n\nUnlike consciousness, the evidence is not singular and contingent. The evidence has universality and a logical necessity. Balmes divides between two types of evidence, the immediate and the mediate: the first does not require proof, it is a priori knowledge, such as knowing that every object is equal to itself. On the other hand, mediate evidence requires demonstration.\n\nThe evidence does not capture a fact, but captures its relationships. It is captured that the idea of the predicate is in the subject (similar to the analytical judgment of Kant). All evidence is based on the principle of non-contradiction, and is reduced to the analytical. Forget the synthetic judgments that are not exclusively rational, do not consider that the criterion of evidence is accompanied by the senses. Therefore, for Balmes the analysis of consciousness is better than the analysis of evidence.\n\nThe intellectual instinct gives us the correspondence between the idea and reality, it is not an animal instinct, but a rational instinct. Through this instinct we know that what we see exists, or at least that there is a representation of what we see. These kinds of truths are by definition broader than the intellectual truths of the evidence. The same truth can also be had by means of an intellectual rather than an instinct: to give an example, it can be known whether a business works or not through an economic study or through an intuition of common sense. Thus, in the common sense there is the unconscious -like the moral truths, or the sensations- or that which through the intellectual instinct we see as evident, for example the scientific truths. It is also through this instinct that we know demonstrable truths without having to prove them, or we consider truth as probability, that is, the awareness of contingency: to give an example, to be aware of the possibilities we have to win the lottery, or to achieve write something coherent by moving the pen randomly on the paper.\n\nFor Balmes, these are the three pillars of metaphysics. To better define this, there is an analysis of the \" cogito ergo sum \" Cartesian, according to which the affirmation of the \"I think, therefore I exist\" Cartesian is in principle a truth of conscience, later transformed into an intellectual truth of evidence, a logical syllogism whose reality is understood through intuition. Having founded the \" cogito \" on something intellectual, Descartes falls into the risk of reducing the \" cogito \" to something logical and intellectual. For this reason, for Balmes consciousness is the fundamental pillar of metaphysics, but for him transcends the \"cogito\" the clear and distinct Cartesian idea: consciousness is the pillar because it is where experience is lived and given sense.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23214186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23214186", "title": "Józef Kalasanty Szaniawski", "text": "Józef Kalasanty Szaniawski\n\nJózef Kalasanty Szaniawski (1764 in Kalwaria Zebrzydowska – 16 May 1843 in Lwów) was a Polish philosopher and politician.\n\nDuring the Kościuszko Uprising (1794) Szaniawski was a Polish Jacobin. After the suppression of the uprising, he emigrated to Paris, where he was a member of the \"Polish Deputation\" (\"Deputacja Polska\"), an independence organization that arose in Paris in 1795 (remaining active till 1796) and grouped representatives of the Polish émigré radical wing. The Polish Deputation hoped to bring about an armed uprising and social revolution in occupied Poland with the support of revolutionary France. The Polish Deputation thereby came into conflict with the moderate Kościuszko-Uprising émigré activists of the \"Agency\" (\"Agencja\"), founded in Paris in 1794, which opposed armed action in Poland, counting instead on France's diplomatic and military aid, and supporting Henryk Dąbrowski's Polish Legions.\n\nOn returning to Warsaw during the Prussian occupation, Szaniawski co-edited \"Gazeta Warszawska\" (The Warsaw Gazette) and initiated \"Korespondencja w materiach obraz kraju i narodu polskiego rozjaśniających\" (\"Correspondence on Matters Elucidating the Picture of Poland and the Polish People\"). He became secretary of the Society of Friends of Learning and president of the Society for Elementary Textbooks, and headed the censorship. A former student of Kant's in Königsberg, he waged a campaign in favor of Kantism.\n\nFrom 1802 to 1808 Szaniawski published his philosophical works in rapid succession. He expounded Kant's philosophy, but with a special purpose—to turn people's minds toward learning; and, in learning, to break with Enlightenment philosophy, which he condemned for dogmatic unbelief and morally damaging hedonism. He was the first to lead the campaign against the Enlightenment in Poland. He became an apostle of German philosophy and was the first to introduce it into Poland.\n\nSzaniawski especially urged the study of Kant; but, having accepted the fundamental points of the critical theory of knowledge, he still hesitated between Kant's metaphysical agnosticism and the new metaphysics of Idealism. He owed a particular debt to Schelling. Thus this one man introduced to Poland both the anti-metaphysical Kant and the post-Kantian metaphysics.\n\nHe introduced them, but later disavowed them. He had entered the civil service and rose quickly to high station, becoming attorney general of the Duchy of Warsaw (1807–15), then secretary of the Provisional Government, then \"referendary\" of state under the Congress Poland. And a curious change came over him: not only did he lose interest in philosophy, but now he sought to restrain its development. When toward the end of his life, in 1842, he spoke about philosophy, it was only to represent all its theories as a pack of errors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "561941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=561941", "title": "Kanada (philosopher)", "text": "Kanada (philosopher)\n\nKanada (Sanskrit: कणाद, IAST: 'Kaṇāda), also known as Kashyapa, Uluka, Kananda and Kanabhuk, was an ancient Indian natural scientist and philosopher who founded the Vaisheshika school of Indian philosophy.\n\nEstimated to have lived sometime between 6th century to 2nd century BCE, little is known about his life. His traditional name \"Kanada\" means \"atom eater\", and he is known for developing the foundations of an atomistic naturalism Indian philosophy in the Sanskrit text \"Vaisheshika Sutra\". His text is also known as \"Kanada Sutras\", or Aphorisms of Kanada.\n\nThe school founded by Kanada attempted to explain the creation and existence of the universe by proposing an atomistic theory, applying logic and realism, and is among one of the earliest known systematic realist ontology in human history. Kanada suggested that everything can be subdivided, but this subdivision cannot go on forever, and there must be smallest entities (\"parmanu\") that cannot be divided, that are eternal, that aggregate in different ways to yield complex substances and bodies with unique identity, a process that involves heat, and this is the basis for all material existence. He used these ideas with the concept of Atman (soul, Self) to develop a non-theistic means to moksha. Kanada's ideas were influential on other schools of Hinduism, and over its history became closely associated with the Nyaya school of Hindu philosophy.\n\nKanada's system speaks of six properties (padārthas) that are nameable and knowable. He claims that these are sufficient to describe everything in the universe, including observers. These six categories are dravya (substance), guna (quality), karman (motion), samanya (universal), visesa (particular), and samavaya (inherence). There are nine classes of substances (dravya), some of which are atomic, some non-atomic, and others that are all-pervasive.\n\nKanada was influential in Indian philosophies, and he appears in various texts by alternate names such as Kashyapa, Uluka, Kananda, Kanabhuk among others. In Jainism literature, he is affectionately referred to as \"Sad-uluka\", which means \"the Uluka who propounded the doctrine of six categories\". His Vaisheshika philosophy similarly appears with alternate names, such as \"Aulukya philosophy\" derived from the nickname Uluka (literally owl, or grain eater in the night).\n\nThe ideas of Kanada span a wide range of fields, and they influenced not only philosophy, but possibly scholars in other fields such as Charaka who wrote a medical text that has survived as \"Charaka Samhita\".\n\nThe century in which Kanada lived is unclear and have been a subject of a long debate. In his review of 1961, Riepe states Kanada lived sometime before 300 CE, but convincing evidence to firmly put him in a certain century remains elusive.\n\nThe \"Vaisheshika Sutras\" mention competing schools of Indian philosophy such as Samkhya and Mimamsa, but make no mention of Buddhism, which has led scholars in more recent publications to posit estimates of 6th to 2nd century BCE. The \"Vaisheshika Sutras\" manuscript has survived into the modern era in multiple versions and the discovery of newer manuscripts in different parts of India by Thakur in 1957 and Jambuvijayaji in 1961, followed by critical edition studies, suggest that the text attributed to Kanada was systematized and finalized sometime between 200 BCE and the start of the common era, with the possibility that its key doctrines may be much older. Multiple Hindu texts dated to the 1st and 2nd century CE, such as the \"Mahavibhasa\" and \"Jnanaprasthana\" from the Kushan Empire, quote and comment on Kanada's doctrines. His ideas are also mentioned in Buddhist texts attributed to Aśvaghoṣa of the same period.\n\nKanada begins his famed Sutras by defining Dharma as that which brings about material progress and highest good. He follows this Sutra with another that asserts that the Vedas have gained respect because they teach such Dharma, and something is not Dharma simply because it is in the Vedas.\nKanada and early Vaisheshika scholars were non-theistic. However, this was not unusual for his times since several major early versions of Hindu philosophies such as Samkhya, Nyaya, Mimamsa along with sub-schools of Yoga and Vedanta, as well as non-Vedic schools such as Jainism and Buddhism, were similarly non-theistic. Kanada was among the sages of India who believed in man's potential to understand existence and reach moksha on his own, without God, a notion of ancient Indians summarized by Nietzsche as the belief that \"with piety and knowledge of the Veda, nothing is impossible\".\n\nIn the fifth chapter of Vaisheshika Sutra, Kanada mentions various empirical observations and natural phenomena such as the falling of objects to ground, rising of fire and heat upwards, the growth of grass upwards, the nature of rainfall and thunderstorms, the flow of liquids, the movement towards a magnet among many others, asks why these things happen, then attempts to integrate his observations with his theories on atoms, molecules and their interaction. He classifies observed events into two: those caused by volition, and those caused by subject-object conjunctions.\n\nKanada came up with the idea that \"paramanu\" (atom) was an indestructible particle of matter. The atom is indivisible because it is a state at which no measurement can be attributed. He used invariance arguments to determine properties of the atoms. He also stated that \"anu\" can have two states — absolute rest and a state of motion.\n\nAdherents of the school of philosophy founded by Kanada considered the atom to be indestructible, and hence eternal. They believed atoms to be minute objects invisible to the naked eye which come into being and vanish in an instant. Vaiseshikas further held that atoms of same substance combined with each other to produce dvyanuka (diatomic molecules) and tryanuka (triatomic molecules). Kanada also put forward the idea that atoms could be combined in various ways to produce chemical changes in presence of other factors such as heat. He gave blackening of earthen pot and ripening of fruit as examples of this phenomenon.\n\nKanada postulated four different kinds of atoms: two with mass, and two without. Each substance is supposed to consist of all the four atoms.\n\nKanada's conception of the atom was likely independent from the similar concept among the ancient Greeks, because of the differences between the theories. For example, Kanada suggested that atoms as building blocks differ both qualitatively and quantitatively, while Greeks suggested that atoms differed only quantitatively but not qualitatively.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41908", "title": "Key Word in Context", "text": "Key Word in Context\n\nKWIC is an acronym for Key Word In Context, the most common format for concordance lines. The term KWIC was first coined by Hans Peter Luhn. The system was based on a concept called \"keyword in titles\" which was first proposed for Manchester libraries in 1864 by Andrea Crestadoro.\n\nA KWIC index is formed by sorting and aligning the words within an article title to allow each word (except the stop words) in titles to be searchable alphabetically in the index. It was a useful indexing method for technical manuals before computerized full text search became common.\n\nFor example, a search query including all of the words in the title statement of this article (\"KWIC is an acronym for Key Word In Context, the most common format for concordance lines\") and the in English (\"the free encyclopedia\"), searched against this very web page, might yield a KWIC index as follows. A KWIC index usually uses a wide layout to allow the display of maximum 'in context' information (not shown in the following example).\n\nA KWIC index is a special case of a \"permuted index\". This term refers to the fact that it indexes all cyclic permutations of the headings. Books composed of many short sections with their own descriptive headings, most notably collections of manual pages, often ended with a permuted index section, allowing the reader to easily find a section by any word from its heading. This practice, also known as KWOC (“Key Word Out of Context”), is no longer common.\n\n\"Note: The first reference does not show the KWIC index unless you pay to view the paper. The second reference does not even list the paper at all.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41731521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41731521", "title": "Lakshana", "text": "Lakshana\n\nLakshana ( \"\") – derived from the combination of words \"lakshya\" and \"kshana\" – means 'indication' or 'symptom'. It also means 'an auspicious mark', 'attribute' or 'quality'. In Tamil language, Lakshanam means \"features\". Sulakshana means good features.\n\nIn Varadarāja's \"Laghukaumudi\" (St.210), on the following \"Paniniya Sukta\" I.i.62 on Sanskrit grammar, which reads:\n\nstates that when elision (\"lopa\") of an affix has taken place, the affix shall still exert its influence, and the operations dependent upon it will take place as if it were present. He explains that the word, \"Lakshana\", signifies that by which a thing is recognized, and the word, \"Lopa\" signifies the elision i.e. substitution of a blank, in which regard Sakalya had suggested certain optional substitutions as stated in Sukta VIII.iii.19. Vardaraja draws attention to Panini’s statement referred to at St.152 to the effect that after whatsoever there is an affix (pratyaya) enjoined, let what begins therewith, in the form in which it appears when the affix follows it, be called an inflective base (anga) e.g. in the case of addressing two or more persons of the same name, say - Rama, the Ramas need not be addressed as \"Oh two Ramas\" but the \" -s\" is to be dropped without change in meaning (intention) and addressed as \"Oh Rama\" which would suffice the intended purpose.\n\n\"Vyasa-bhashya\" (VIII.13) explains that in the smallest particle of time or \"kshana\" the whole universe undergoes a change. Each moment or particle of time is only the manifestation of that change, and time does not have a separate existence. Appearance is called Dharma, and the arrangement of objects or qualities is called \"Dharmin\"; the change of appearance is called \"Dharma-parinama\" which has two aspects – \"Lakshana-parinama\" and \"Avastha-parinama\", which are not intrinsically different. \"Lakshana-parinama\" considers three stages of an appearance viz. a) the unmanifested when it exists in the future, b) the manifested moment of the present and c) the past when it has been manifested, lost to view but preserved and retained in all the onwards stages of evolution. \"Avastha-parinama\" is change of condition which is not materially different from \"Lakshana-parinama\" and hence its mode; it is on account of this that an object is called new or old, grown or decayed. It is the nature of the Guṇas that there cannot remain even a moment without the evolutionary changes of \"dharma\", \"lakshana\" and \"avastha\", for movement is the characteristic of the \"gunas\" whose nature is the cause of constant movement, which changes the mind also experiences in accordance with its two qualities visible and invisible; the visible qualities are those whose changes can be noticed as conscious states or thought-products or precepts, whereas the invisible qualities are those whose changes can only be established by inference. There is an order in all successive changes (Vacaspati in his \"Tattva–vaivasaradi\" (III.15).\n\nDharma, which provides security, peace and well-being, is concerned equally to the individual and his other worldly interests and to the worldly interest of the individual, family and society. Dharma embraces man’s life as a whole. The two goals of man’s individual and collective existence signified by the words \"abhyudaya\" ('prosperity') and \"nihsreyasa\" ('necessaries') are attained by following a two-fold dharma – 1) \"Pravritti Lakshana Dharma\" ('religion of action') that is characterized by action and 2) \"Nivritti Lakshana Dharma\" ('religion of renunciation') which is characterized by freedom from action.\n\nAdvaita Vedanta refers to the three meanings that all words and sentences carry – the primary or direct meaning, the implied meaning and the suggested meaning. The implied meaning, known as \"Lakshana\", is of three kinds – \"Jahallakshana\" which consists in discarding the direct meaning in favour of the indirect or implied meaning, \"Ajahallakshana\" in which the direct meaning is not completely given up and the real meaning is hinted, and \"Jahadjahallakshana\" which consists in giving up a part of the direct meaning and retaining the other part. Thus, the word \"That\" of the mahavakya – tat tvam asi primarily refers to the Saguna Brahman or Ishvara, and the word \"Thou\" primarily to the Jiva, the individual soul. The direct sense points to the identity of between Ishvara and Jiva. The implied meaning reveals that Ishvara and Jiva are the result of ignorance and the imposition of the unreal on the real when \"That\" refers to the Nirguna Brahman, the pure consciousness who is absolute and without attributes and \"Thou\" refers to self or atman, the pure consciousness which is the reality underlying the mind-body complex. It is according to the third \"Lakshana\" that the identity of Brahman and Atman is established, that these two words in their implicit sense point to the same reality, that \"Brahma-anubhava\" is the non-dual experience of the sole reality.\n\nThe student of classical music – after faithfully evaluating the effect of listening and observation as aids for sadhana – strives to study the role of acquiring \"Lakshana Jnanam\" ('theoretical knowledge') as an aid to \"Lakshya Sadhana\" ('practical attainment') in order to uplift knowledge of music gained and realizing its practical utilities/applications. Mere theoretical knowledge, the \"arohana\" and \"avarohana\" of a raga is not \"Lakshana Jnanam\", for the body is first formed and only thereafter infused with life. Lakshya (target or aim to be accomplished) is based on \"Kalpana\" ('imagination','inspiration') and \"Lakshana\" is like grammar, the former is not clear without the latter. The knowledge of \"Lakshana\" is essential for \"Lakshya sadhana\".\n\nIn matters pertaining to the prediction of future events, the word, \"Lakshana\", means a mark or an omen. In this system, eight different methods are employed:\nAccording to numerology, numbers pregnant with more than one meaning and significance, indicate the course of future events. According to \"Anga Ranga\", a very ancient method, women are divided into four distinct classes of temperament that correspond to the four phases of liberation (\"moksa\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26695431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26695431", "title": "Lament bass", "text": "Lament bass\n\nIn music, the lament bass is a ground bass, built from a descending perfect fourth from tonic to dominant, with each step harmonized. The diatonic version is the upper tetrachord from the natural minor scale, known as the Phrygian tetrachord, while the chromatic version, the chromatic fourth, has all semitones filled in. It is often used in music to denote tragedy or sorrow.\n\nHowever, \"A common misperception exists that the 'lament bass' of Venetian opera became so prevalent that it immediately swept away all other possible affective associations with this bass pattern...To cite but one example, Peter Holman, writing about Henry Purcell, once characterized the minor tetrachord as 'the descending ground that was associated with love in seventeenth-century opera'.\"\n\nThere exists a short, free musical form of the Romantic Era, called complaint or \"complainte\" (Fr.) or lament. It is typically a set of harmonic variations in homophonic texture, wherein the bass descends through some tetrachord, possibly that of the previous paragraph, but usually one suggesting a minor mode. This tetrachord, treated as a very short ground bass, is repeated again and again over the length of the composition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "354285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=354285", "title": "List of rules of inference", "text": "List of rules of inference\n\nThis is a list of rules of inference, logical laws that relate to mathematical formulae.\n\nRules of inference are syntactical transform rules which one can use to infer a conclusion from a premise to create an argument. A set of rules can be used to infer any valid conclusion if it is complete, while never inferring an invalid conclusion, if it is sound. A sound and complete set of rules need not include every rule in the following list, as many of the rules are redundant, and can be proven with the other rules.\n\n\"Discharge rules\" permit inference from a subderivation based on a temporary assumption. Below, the notation\n\nindicates such a subderivation from the temporary assumption formula_2 to formula_3.\n\nSentential calculus is also known as propositional calculus.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn the following rules, formula_71 is exactly like formula_2 except for having the term formula_73 everywhere formula_2 has the free variable formula_75.\n\n\nRestriction 1: formula_73 is a variable which does not occur in formula_2.\n\nRestriction 2: formula_73 is not mentioned in any hypothesis or undischarged assumptions.\n\n\nRestriction: No free occurrence of formula_75 in formula_2 falls within the scope of a quantifier quantifying a variable occurring in formula_73.\n\n\nRestriction: No free occurrence of formula_75 in formula_2 falls within the scope of a quantifier quantifying a variable occurring in formula_73.\n\nRestriction 1: formula_73 is a variable which does not occur in formula_2.\n\nRestriction 2: There is no occurrence, free or bound, of formula_73 in formula_3.\n\nRestriction 3: formula_73 is not mentioned in any hypothesis or undischarged assumptions.\n\nThe following are special cases of universal generalization and existential elimination; these occur in substructrual logics, such as linear logic.\n\n\nThe rules above can be summed up in the following table. The \"Tautology\" column shows how to interpret the notation of a given rule. \n\nAll rules use the basic logic operators. A complete table of \"logic operators\" is shown by a truth table, giving definitions of all the possible (16) truth functions of 2 boolean variables (\"p\", \"q\"):\n\nwhere T = true and F = false, and, the columns are the logical operators: 0, false, Contradiction; 1, NOR, Logical NOR; 2, Converse nonimplication; 3, ¬p, Negation; 4, Material nonimplication; 5, ¬q, Negation; 6, XOR, Exclusive disjunction; 7, NAND, Logical NAND; 8, AND, Logical conjunction; 9, XNOR, If and only if, Logical biconditional; 10, q, Projection function; 11, if/then, Logical implication; 12, p, Projection function; 13, then/if, Converse implication; 14, OR, Logical disjunction; 15, true, Tautology.\n\nEach logic operator can be used in an assertion about variables and operations, showing a basic rule of inference. Examples:\nMachines and well-trained people use this look at table approach to do basic inferences, and to check if other inferences (for the same premises) can be obtained.\n\nLet us consider the following assumptions: \"If it rains today, then we will not go on a canoe today. If we do not go on a canoe trip today, then we will go on a canoe trip tomorrow. Therefore (Mathematical symbol for \"therefore\" is formula_103), if it rains today, we will go on a canoe trip tomorrow\".\nTo make use of the rules of inference in the above table we let formula_104 be the proposition \"If it rains today\", formula_105 be \"We will not go on a canoe today\" and let formula_106 be \"We will go on a canoe trip tomorrow\". Then this argument is of the form:\n\nformula_107\n\nLet us consider a more complex set of assumptions: \"It is not sunny today and it is colder than yesterday\". \"We will go swimming only if it is sunny\", \"If we do not go swimming, then we will have a barbecue\", and \"If we will have a barbecue, then we will be home by sunset\" lead to the conclusion \"We will be home by sunset.\"\nProof by rules of inference: Let formula_104 be the proposition \"It is sunny today\", formula_105 the proposition \"It is colder than yesterday\", formula_106 the proposition \"We will go swimming\", formula_111 the proposition \"We will have a barbecue\", and formula_112 the proposition \"We will be home by sunset\". Then the hypotheses become formula_113 and formula_114. Using our intuition we conjecture that the conclusion might be formula_112. Using the Rules of Inference table we can prove the conjecture easily:\nList of logic systems\n"}
{"id": "31429433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31429433", "title": "Maqaam", "text": "Maqaam\n\nMaqaam (also known as \"maqām\") or maqaamat (plural), translating to \"stations\" in Arabic, is the various stages a Sufi's soul must attain in its search for God. The stations are derived from the most routine considerations a Sufi must deal with on a day-to-day basis and is essentially an embodiment of both mystical knowledge and Islamic law (Sharia). Although the number and order of maqaamat are not universal the majority agree on the following seven: Tawba, Wara', Zuhd, Faqr, Ṣabr, Tawakkul, and Riḍā. Sufis believe that these stations are the grounds of the spiritual life, and they are viewed as a mode through which the most elemental aspects of daily life begin to play a vital role in the overall attainment of oneness with God.\n\nIt is within the power of a Sufi to fulfill the obligations pertaining to the specific station, and keeping it until its full precision is comprehended. That is to say, it is only when one stage has been reached that the next stage may be attained. In order to reach a higher maqaam, one must continue to possess the maqaam below it and not become deprived of it. Each of the stations stand related to each other in a hierarchical order, so that even when they are transcended they remain a permanent possession of the one who attained them. Possession of a certain station means not only to experience it outworldly, but to be internally transformed by it and, in a sense, to embody the stage itself.\n\nThe first of the maqaamat is Tawba. Al-Ghazali, a prolific Sufi theologian, wrote that Tawba is the repentance of a sin with the promise that it will not be repeated and that the sinner will return to God. Junayd Baghdadi emphasized the return to God by saying this station \"is forgetting your fault\". This is thought to mean that after realization occurs God will be in constant remembrance and overwhelm the mind. Ibn Arabi, a Sufi mystic and philosopher who had tremendous influence on post 13th century Islamic thought, spent a great deal of time exploring what religious as well as spiritual authorities identified as being the three conditions of human tawba. The first condition is that of remorse for the violations that have been committed. The second is an immediate abandonment of the sin. The final condition is a firm resolve on the part of the sinner to never return to similar acts of disobedience. All of these conditions essentially convey the message that tawba, in its purest form, consists of forgetting one’s sin. Al-Arabi concluded that brooding over ones faults, after the fact, is not only a hindrance in the remembrance of God but also a subtle form of narcissism.\n\nPeople of the second maqaamat, Wara' translating to \"\"watchfulness\", are divided into three ranks. The first rank is of those who are adamant about avoiding that which lies between the prohibited (\"harām\") and the permitted (\"halāl\"). In other words, they avoid grey area. This is thought to be the rank of common people. The second rank contains those who are cautious with anything concerning sin. This can only be known by the individual. These people are free from association with anything wrong. This is said to be the rank of the select. The third rank in watchfulness is being suspicious of anything that distracts you from God. This is said to be the rank of the very select.\n\nThe station of Zuhd, translated \"renunciation\", concerns that which is permitted and is at hand, and the obligatory action of relinquishing all desire for that which is prohibited as well as that which is uncertain. There exist three ranks of renouncers. The first consists of those who feel no joy at worldly things acquired or grief over worldly things missed. The second rank consists of those who have realized renunciation. These are the people who have discovered that in renunciation of material goods, there are goods for the self such as praise of others, honor, and tranquility that must also be renounced. The third rank consists of those who would renounce the thought of renunciation, and giving up the hope for heavenly reward or fear of hell.\n\nFaqr, translated as \"poverty\"\", is one of the central attitudes in a Sufi’s life. It was also one of the attributes of the Prophet. He claimed \"poverty is my pride\". In a spiritual sense, poverty is defined as the absence of desire for wealth or for the blessings of the otherworld. One of the aspects of one who has embodied the true essence of faqr, is that the mystic must never ask anything of anyone else. The reason for this is for one to ask someone else for anything they would be relying on a created being. To receive something from that same being would produce gratitude in the heart which would be geared toward the giver, not towards God.\n\nJunayd describes the fifth station, \"patience\", as \"The bearing of the burden for the sake of God Most High until the times of hardship have passed.\" Al-Ghazzali divides this station into different kinds of patience. The first is to have patience with physical pain. This can be caused by serious illness, an accident or even in the tasks of God's services. This patience is judged by laws of the religion. The second kind deals with attraction to evil and greed, essentially concerning matters of self-control. He lists other kinds of patience such as that of battles, the appeasement of anger, of happiness and that of possessions. The Prophet Muhammad described patience as the most difficult act of faith as well as the forbearing of hardship. Because the Prophet viewed patience as such a difficult act, it is widely followed on the path of a Sufi.\n\nTawwakul, translated \"trust\" is a noble stage a Sufi must reach once he has learned patience, so that when something is denied to a mystic they trust it is in agreement with destiny. True faith is accompanied by tawwakul, a disposition that must be incessantly cultivated through pious practice and reflection. This stage is characterized by complete trust in God and surrender to his will. It is agreed upon by some scholars that because the divine power is all-encompassing, complete trust in this power is mandatory. As such, the degree of tawwakul can vary in accordance to the amount of faith a person has. To place this trust in someone else leads to the greatest sin, shirk (\"hidden associationism\"). When every feeling and thought of a mystic is directed in perfect sincerity towards only God, the mystic is then considered to be the true essence of tawwakkul. Tawwakul is not a \"passive\" form of fatalism that counteracts human agency, rather it can be characterized as a disposition whose achievement requires active and persistent work on one’s self.\n\nRiḍā, the final station, is a word that only roughly translates to \"\"acceptance\" in English. Along with this is also means taking pleasure in something or someone. Acceptance is said to be the greatest gate to God and is seen as heaven on earth. The station is divided into three parts. The first consists of those who attempt to silence their anxieties until they are able to accept their misfortunes, comforts, deprivations, or bounties. The second part are those who accept God and wish God to accept them. These people do not seek priority in their acceptance even if they view all blessings and misfortunes the same. The third are those who go beyond the second group by not looking for God's acceptance of them and theirs of God. Instead of this they accept that God has preordained all of his creations.\n\nHāl (pl. ahwāl), or Haal, translated \"spiritual state\"\", appears many times within Sufi texts as the opposite and complement to maqaam. As an early authority on Sufism, Ali bin Usman Al-Hujwiri in his book \"Kashf ul Mahjoob: a Persian Treatise on Sufism\", defines Hal as \"something that descends from God into a man’s heart, without his being able to repel it when it comes, or to attract it as it goes, by his own effort.\" The maqaamat and the ahwal are clearly presented as two series of spiritual states, the first being something one must acquire and the second being something that must be received. To reach a new maqaam does not destroy the preceding maqaam. Hāl, on the contrary, is by its very nature \"instantaneous\", though not necessarily passive. The most prominent distinction made between the two spiritual states is that the ahwāl are essentially gifts from God, while the maqaamat are acquired through the exertion of effort. In the Ihya Ulum al-din (Revivification of the religious science) al-Ghazali defines Hāl in conjunction and in contrast with maqaam. He says:\nQualifications (\"wasf\") is called “station” (\"maqaam\") if it is stable and endures and it is called “state of soul” (hāl) if it passes away and disappears without delay…What is not stable is called “state of soul” because it disappears to give its place to another state rapidly. This is true of all the qualifications of the heart.\n"}
{"id": "1619103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1619103", "title": "Melville Y. Stewart", "text": "Melville Y. Stewart\n\nMelville Y. Stewart (born 1935) is Professor of Philosophy Emeritus, Bethel University, (Saint Paul, Minnesota).\n\nStewart has a B.A. from Gordon College, (Wenham, Massachusetts), an M. Div. from Westminster Theological Seminary, (Philadelphia, Pennsylvania), an S.T.M. from Andover Newton Theological School, (Newton Centre, Massachusetts), an M.A. from the University of Connecticut, (Storrs, Connecticut), a Ph.D. from the University of Minnesota, (Minneapolis, Minnesota) and he did Postdoctoral work at Oxford University, (Oxford, England) in 1986. May 21, 2015, he was awarded an honorary Doctor of Divinity (D.D.) degree from Westminster Theological Seminary, Philadelphia, PA.\n\nStewart's main areas of interest are philosophy of religion, science and religion, and Chinese philosophy. He taught at Bethel University from 1972 to 1999, and chaired the department from 1985 to 1992. He received the Excellence in Scholarship Award in 1996, and in 1999 became Emeritus Professor of Philosophy. From 2000 to 2003 he served as Adjunct Professor at the University of St. Thomas. Outside the U.S. he taught a year in the Department of Philosophy at Saint Petersburg State University from 1992 to 1993, and was Adjunct Professor at St. Petersburg Christian College during the spring term of 2003. He has taught 13 terms at various Universities in China between 1996 and 2013.\n\nStewart has read papers at 43 universities outside the U.S. including 19 in China, 8 in Russia, and at Vilnius University, Latvian Academy of Science, University of Minsk, University of Edinburgh, Tokyo Christian University, University of Hong Kong, Oxford University, and the University of London. His most recent Science and Religion Series held at five universities in China: Wuhan University, Fudan University, Shandong University, Peking University, and Tsinghua University, led to a multi-volume work in three editions: an English 2-volume edition, \"Science and Religion in Dialogue\" published by Wiley-Blackwell of Oxford, a 5-volume Chinese edition,《科学与宗教的对话》(\"Science and Religion in Dialogue\"), published by Peking University Press, Beijing (Volumes I, III, IV and V) and Fudan University Press (Volume II), and a 4-volume Russian edition, edited by Stewart and Natalia Pechereskaya.\n\nIn the US Stewart gave a public lecture at Texas A&M University on \"Confucianism and Christianity,\" and read a paper at the Confucius Institute Academic Symposium, \"Elements of Ancient Chinese Monotheism and the Ancient Hebrew Tradition,\" April, 2009. He also presented a paper, \"Ancient Chinese, Hebrew and Christian Monotheism\", at the Evangelical Philosophical Society in 2013, and \"The Ethic of Love in Ancient Judaism and Early Christianity\" at the Evangelical Philosophical Society in 2014.\n\nIn 2010, he team-taught a Seminar at Peking University, taught a course \"Philosophy of Religion\" at Beijing Normal University, and taught another course, \"Philosophy of Mind\" at Beijing University of Chemical Technology. He also presented a paper, \"Ancient Chinese, Hebrew and Christian Monotheism\" at the First Nishan Forum, September 26,27, 2010, Qufu/Jining, China.\nIn 2011, he taught a theological module at the Evangelical Lutheran Seminary in Novosaratovka, Russia.\nIn 2012, he gave lecture series at Beijing Normal University in Beijing, Tsinghua University in Beijing, and Shandong University in Jinan. He also presented a paper, \"The Ethic of Love in Ancient Judaism and Early Christianity\", at the Second Nishan Forum, May 21–23, 2012,Qufu/Jining, China.\nIn 2013, he gave a lecture series at Beijing Normal University and Tsinghua University in Beijing.\nIn 2014, he presented papers at Tsinghua University in Beijing, and conducted a Workshop at Beijing Normal University. October 9–15, 2015, he presented two papers at Fudan University in Shanghai, and agreed to co-author a new Dictionary with Prof. Yingjin Xu.\nApril 16–24, taught a module in Science and Religion at the Universidad Evangelico Seminario, Lima, Peru. New Volume of the Russian edition, Наука и Религия в Диалоге (Science and Religion in Dialogue), Vol. 3, Melville Y. Stewart and Natalia Pecherskaya, editors, St. Petersburg School of Religion and Philosophy, 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "1031376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1031376", "title": "Michael Hillegas", "text": "Michael Hillegas\n\nMichael Hillegas (April 22, 1729 – September 29, 1804) was the first Treasurer of the United States.\n\nHillegas was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He was the son of Margaret Schiebenstock (1710 – July 21, 1770) and George Michael Hillegass (February 14, 1696 – October 30, 1749), an immigrant from Germany and a well-to-do merchant involved in iron and sugar. Soon Michael thus had the freedom and resources to participate in local politics. He married Henrietta Boude on May 10, 1753, at Christ Church in Philadelphia, and they went on to have many children. Hillegas was a member of the Pennsylvania Provincial Assembly from 1765 to 1775 and served as treasurer of the Committee of Safety under Benjamin Franklin in 1774.\n\nOn July 29, 1775, Hillegas and fellow patriot George Clymer were appointed by the Continental Congress to share the office of Treasurer of the United Colonies. Because Hillegas edited the Declaration of Independence, when the Declaration of Independence was signed, Clymer's signature appeared on the document.\n\nAfter Clymer's resignation on August 6, 1776, Hillegas assumed sole ownership of the office, which he held throughout the remainder of the American Revolution, using much of his own fortune to support the cause. His son, Samuel Hillegas, was also given the authority to sign new currency, known as \"Continentals.\" Hillegas also served briefly as quartermaster to the army and served on occasional commissions. On September 9, 1776, the Continental Congress officially changed the name of the country to the United States of America, but Hillegas's title did not officially change until March 1778. On September 11, 1789, Congress created the Treasury Department, and Alexander Hamilton took the oath of office as the first Secretary of the Treasury. On that same date, Hillegas tendered his resignation, and Samuel Meredith was appointed Treasurer.\n\nHillegas was also an early member of the American Philosophical Society, along with Franklin. He died in Philadelphia and is buried near Franklin in Christ Church Burial Ground. Late in the 19th century, his descendants petitioned to have his portrait appear on the ten-dollar gold certificate in the series issued in the years 1907 and 1922.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11757833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11757833", "title": "Mihail Petruševski", "text": "Mihail Petruševski\n\nMihail Petruševski (Macedonian and ; July 2, 1911, Bitola – February 27, 1990) was a Yugoslav Macedonian academic, philologist and founder of the Faculty of Philosophy at the Skopje University. He published over 200 philosophic works, but his translation of Homer's \"Iliad\" and his adaptation of \"Skanderbeg\" by Grigor Parlichev were considered particularly significant for Macedonian culture.\n\nPetruševski was also a committee member on the first Committee for the Standardization of the Macedonian Alphabet, and a former rector of Saints Cyril and Methodius University, Skopje.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36999783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36999783", "title": "Mind and Cosmos", "text": "Mind and Cosmos\n\nMind and Cosmos: Why the Materialist Neo-Darwinian Conception of Nature is Almost Certainly False is a 2012 book by the philosopher Thomas Nagel.\n\nNagel argues that the materialist version of evolutionary biology is unable to account for the existence of mind and consciousness, and is therefore at best incomplete. He writes that mind is a basic aspect of nature, and that any philosophy of nature that cannot account for it is fundamentally misguided. He argues that the standard physico-chemical reductionist account of the emergence of life – that it emerged from a series of accidents, acted upon by the mechanism of natural selection – flies in the face of common sense.\n\nNagel's position is that principles of an entirely different kind may account for the emergence of life, and in particular conscious life, and that those principles may be teleological, rather than materialist or mechanistic. He stresses that his argument is not a religious one (he is an atheist), and that it is not based on the theory of intelligent design (ID), though he also writes that ID proponents such as Michael Behe, Stephen C. Meyer, and David Berlinski do not deserve the scorn with which their ideas have been met by the overwhelming majority of the scientific establishment.\n\nThe book generated significant criticism, including from Steven Pinker, Daniel Dennett and Elliott Sober. Michael Chorost wrote that Nagel raised valid criticisms but did not sufficiently engage with the large – though not dominant – body of scientific literature related to natural teleology. Chorost also suggests the book would have received less criticism had Nagel not endorsed criticisms raised by proponents of intelligent design, despite Nagel's not having endorsed intelligent design as a solution.\n\nPhysicist Sean M. Carroll negatively reviewed the book concluding \"he advocates overthrowing things that are precisely defined, extremely robust, and impressively well-tested (the known laws of physics, natural selection) on the basis of ideas that are rather vague and much less well-supported (a conviction that consciousness can’t be explained physically, a demand for intelligibility, moral realism).\"\n\n"}
{"id": "44856939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44856939", "title": "Mitahara", "text": "Mitahara\n\nMitahara (Sanskrit: मिताहार, Mitāhāra) literally means the habit of moderate food. Mitahara is also a concept in Indian philosophy, particularly Yoga, that integrates awareness about food, drink, balanced diet and consumption habits and its effect on one’s body and mind. It is one of the ten yamas in ancient Indian texts.\n\n\"Mitahara\" is a Sanskrit combination word, from Mita (मित, moderate) and Ahara (आहार, taking food, diet), which together mean moderate diet. In Yoga and other ancient texts, it represents a concept linking nutrition to the health of one’s body and mind. It is considered a yamas or self-restraint virtue in some schools of Indian traditions, where one refrains from either eating too much or eating too little quantity of food, and where one refrains from either eating too much or too little of certain qualities of food. Mitahara is synonymous with Mātrāśin (मात्राशिन्).\n\nAncient and medieval era Indian literature on \"Mitahara\" are of two categories – one relates to philosophical discussion of moderate diet and proper nutrition, the other category relate to details about \"Aharatattva\" (dietetics). The former category include the Upanishads and Sutras that discuss why virtuous self-restraint is appropriate in matters of food, while the latter include Samhitas that discuss what and when certain foods are suitable. A few texts such as Hathayoga Pradipika combine both.\n\n\"Mitahara\" is discussed in Śāṇḍilya Upanishad, as well as by Svātmārāma. It is one of the yamas (virtuous self restraints) discussed in ancient Indian texts. The other nine yamas are Ahiṃsā (अहिंसा): Nonviolence, Satya (सत्य): truthfulness, Asteya (अस्तेय): not stealing, Brahmacharya (ब्रह्मचर्य): celibacy and not cheating on one’s spouse, Kṣamā (क्षमा): forgiveness, Dhṛti (धृति): fortitude, Dayā (दया): compassion, Ārjava (आर्जव): sincerity, non-hypocrisy, and Śauca (शौच): purity, cleanliness.\n\nSome of the earliest ideas behind \"Mitahara\" trace to ancient era Taittiriya Upanishad, which in various hymns discusses the importance of food to healthy living, to the cycle of life, as well as to its role in one's body and its effect on Self (Brahman, Atma, Spirit). The Upanishad, states Stiles, notes “from food life springs forth, by food it is sustained, and in food it merges when life departs”.\n\nThe Bhagavad Gita includes verses on ‘‘mitahara’’ in Chapter 6. It states in verse 6.16 that a yogi must neither eat too much nor too little, neither sleep too much nor too little. Understanding and regulating one’s established habits about eating, sleeping and recreation is suggested as essential to the practice of yoga in verse 6.17.\n\nAnother ancient text, in a South Indian language, \"Tirukkuṛaḷ\" states moderate diet as a virtuous life style. This text, written between 200 BC and 400 AD, and sometimes called the Tamil Veda, discusses eating habits and its role in a healthy life (Mitahara), dedicating Chapter 95 of Book 7 to it. \"Tirukkuṛaḷ\" states in verses 943 through 945, “eat in moderation, when you feel hungry, foods that are agreeable to your body, refraining from foods that your body finds disagreeable”. Tiruvalluvar also emphasizes overeating has ill effects on health, in verse 946, as “the pleasures of health abide in the man who eats moderately. The pains of disease dwell with him who eats excessively.”\n\nMedieval era Sanskrit texts such as Dasakumara Charita and Hatha Yoga Pradipika discuss \"Mitahara\". For example, Hatha Yoga Pradipika verse 1.57 states the importance of ‘‘mitihara’’, as\nVerses 1.57 through 1.63 of the critical edition of Hathayoga Pradipika suggests that taste cravings should not drive one’s eating habits, rather the best diet is one that is tasty, nutritious and likable as well as sufficient to meet the needs of one’s body and for one’s inner self. It recommends that one must “eat only when one feels hungry” and “neither overeat nor eat to completely fill the capacity of one’s stomach; rather leave a quarter portion empty and fill three quarters with quality food and fresh water”. Verses 1.59 to 1.61 of Hathayoga Pradipika suggests ‘‘mitahara’’ regimen of a yogi avoids foods with excessive amounts of sour, salt, bitterness, oil, spice burn, unripe vegetables, fermented foods or alcohol. The practice of \"Mitahara\", in Hathayoga Pradipika, includes avoiding stale, impure and tamasic foods, and consuming moderate amounts of fresh, vital and sattvic foods.\n\nCharaka Samhita and Sushruta Samhita are among the two largest surviving compendium on nutrition and diet that have survived from ancient and medieval periods of India. Caraka Samhita emphasizes the need to plan and understand the role of diet in health, across Chapters 5, 6, 25, 26 and 27. In verse 25.31, it states \"wholesome diet promotes health and growth, unwholesome diet is the most important cause of diseases\". In verses 25.38-39, Caraka Samhita classifies foods into groups based on its source and taste, then categorizes them into nutritive and harmful. In Chapters 26 and 27, it suggests that the same food can be nutritive in small amounts while harmful in large amounts or if cooked improperly or if eaten together with foods its lists. Food, claims Caraka Samhita, must be tailored to needs of one's body, state of one's health, climate, season, habits and personal palatability and needs. In the spirit of Mitahara, in Chapter 5, it insists even light, easily digested and nutritious food should be consumed in moderation and should not be consumed in excess of bodily requirements. In Chapter 6, Caraka Samhita recommends that food should be tailored to the season, with rich and fatty foods being beneficial in winter, while light soups, fruits and acidulated drinks more suited for summers. In verses 6.6-7, it suggests that the diet should be planned and nourishing foods consumed in rotation, tailored to one's health condition and personal needs.\n\nAs with Caraka Samhita, the other large compendium on health – Sushruta Samhita – includes many chapters on the role of diet and personal needs of an individual. In Chapter 10 of Sushruta Samhita, for example, the diet and nutrition for pregnant women, nursing mothers and young children are described. It recommends milk, butter, fluid foods, fruits, vegetables and fibrous diets for expecting mothers along with soups made from \"jangala\" (wild) meat. In most cases, vegetarian diets are preferred and recommended in the Samhitas; however, for those recovering from injuries, growing children, those who do high levels of physical exercise, and expecting mothers, Sutrasthanam's Chapter 20 and other texts recommend carefully prepared meat. Sushruta Samhita also recommends a rotation and balance in foods consumed, in moderation. For this purposes, it classifies foods by various characteristics, such as taste. In Chapter 42 of Sutrasthanam, for example, it lists six tastes – \"madhura\" (sweet), \"amla\" (acidic), \"lavana\" (saline), \"katuka\" (pungent), \"tikta\" (bitter) and \"kashaya\" (astringent). It then lists various sources of foods that deliver these tastes and recommends that all six tastes (flavors) be consumed in moderation and routinely, as a habit for good health.\n\nThe concept of \"Mitahara\" is discussed in over 30 different ancient and medieval era texts of Hinduism. However, some texts use a different word and concept for the idea of \"moderate diet and paying attention to what one eats and drinks\". For example, Shivayoga Dipika uses the term \"Niyatāshana\" (planned, regulated eating), while Dattatreya Samhita uses \"Laghrāhāra\" (eating lightly, small portions of diverse foods).\n\n"}
{"id": "6051479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6051479", "title": "Niall Shanks", "text": "Niall Shanks\n\nNiall Shanks (January 18, 1959 — July 13, 2011) was an English Canadian philosopher and critic of intelligent design.\n\nShanks was born in Cheshire, England, was educated at Rossall School, and later at the University of Leeds and the University of Liverpool. Shanks left England for Canada in 1981 and earned his Ph.D. at the University of Alberta, Canada in 1987. Shanks moved to the United States in 1987. For a number of years Shanks was a member of the Department of Philosophy at East Tennessee State University, where he also held positions in the Department of Biological Sciences and the Department of Physics and Astronomy. He then moved to Wichita State University where he was the Curtis D. Gridley Professor in the History and Philosophy of Science.\n\nShanks served a term as President (2008-9) of the Southwest and Rocky Mountain Division of the American Association for the Advancement of Science; He was vice-president and board member of Americans For Medical Advancement for ten years; and an honorary Board Member of Internet Infidels. In 1993 he served a term as President of the Tennessee Philosophical Association. He died on 13 July 2011.\n\nShanks' early research interests were focused on issues in the philosophical foundations of quantum mechanics. He later wrote about the case against Intelligent Design and actively defended evolution. Beginning in the 1990s he explored the implications of evolutionary biology for biomedical research and was actively involved in this until his death. Shanks was also interested in the history of medicine and the role played by medicine in the scientific revolutions of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries.\n\nQuantum Theory: Shanks early work was focused on so-called hidden-variables theory of non-relativistic elementary quantum mechanics, and the problem of the construction of classical models (models exhibiting the properties of determinateness and determinism) for quantum measurement statistics. Shanks argued that the various no-hidden-variables proofs rested on questionable assumptions which a classical modeler could plausibly deny. Shanks would later argue that local deterministic models were indeed possible for the puzzling quantum spin correlation statistics that were used to characterize Bell's Theorem (a modern incarnation of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox EPR paradox). Shanks essay, \"Quantum Mechanics and Determinism\", (Philosophical Quarterly,1993, vol. 43, 170:20-37) summarizes his arguments in an accessible manner. At this point in time, working with W. David Sharp, Shanks examined some puzzles concerning \"counterfactual interpretations\" of quantum mechanics. This work culminated in the \"Sharp and Shanks proof\" that counterfactual interpretations of quantum spin measurements could not be reconciled with the validated predictions of quantum mechanics (see W.D. Sharp and N. Shanks, 1993, \"The Rise and Fall of Time-Symmetrized Quantum Mechanics\", Philosophy of Science, vol. 60:488-499).\n\nAnimals, Science and Animal Science: Shanks has explored the role played by animal experimentation in the contexts of anatomy and physiology during the renaissance. He has argued that animal experimentation provided a crucial driving force behind the method of analysis and synthesis that would come to play a central role in the emergence of the physico-chemical sciences in the 17th and 18th centuries. According to Shanks, the development of modern science flows from \"physik\" (i.e., medicine) to \"physics\", and not the reverse as is commonly supposed. Physics would ultimately come to have profound implications for physiology, and these matters are explored by Shanks in his work on the writings of the great 19th century French physiologist, Claude Bernard. In the course of his explorations of the implications of the study of animals for the modern scientific view of the world, Shanks has explored the issue of animal consciousness and the question as to what, if anything, science can teach us about the mental lives of animals. Shanks has argued that there is no straightforward fact of the matter to settle disputes between those who have a very generous view of the mental lives of animals (for example, in some versions of cognitive ethology derived from the work of Donald Griffin), and those who favor minimalistic cognitive estimates (for example, some species of behaviorism). Shanks has argued that disputes about these matters hinge not on appeals to the facts, but rather on disputes about what the relevant facts are, and where these disputes do not themselves admit of a straightforward factual resolution.\n\nCreationism: Shanks was a staunch defender of evolutionary biology and a vehement opponent of creationism (and its recent incarnation in the form of intelligent design theology). Shanks argued that the intelligent design movement is rooted in bad science, bad theology and a radical right-wing social agenda. His views may be found in his book, \"God, The Devil and Darwin\". Shanks conducted numerous public debates with creationists and advocates of intelligent design, including Duane Gish, William Dembski, Paul Nelson (creationist) and Michael Behe. Shanks is an advocate of methodological naturalism and has argued against drawing supernatural conclusions on the basis of either biological complexity or puzzles in cosmology concerning the fine-tuned universe. In addition to evolution, Shanks emphasized the role played by self-organization in a purely naturalistic account of biological and cosmological phenomena.\n\nEvolution and Medicine: Shanks made contributions to debates on topics in what may be broadly characterized as evolutionary medicine. It is now generally recognized that the implications evolutionary biology for medicine must be taken into account if modern medical inquiry is to be placed on a sound theoretical foundation. The great population geneticist Theodosius Dobzhansky once remarked that \"nothing in biology makes sense except in the light of evolution.\" This is especially true of modern medicine. Shanks has argued that evolutionary biology is highly important when considering the so-called \"prediction problem\" in biomedical research. It has become common scientific practice in research in toxicology, drug development, pathology and therapeutics to explore human biomedical phenomena by performing experiments on nonhuman animals and then extrapolating the results to humans (animals play many roles in biomedical research, but one important role is as predictors of human biomedical phenomena). Shanks claims that a prediction problem exists due to the fact that humans and their nonhuman models have taken divergent evolutionary trajectories, and are thus not qualitatively identical systems (once compensation has been made for purely quantitative differences in body weight, for example). Put bluntly, the prediction problem boils down to this: if mice are not men writ small, under what conditions do we expect experimental results on mice to have informational value for human biomedical phenomena? Two of Shanks' essays have generated some interest in this puzzle (see \"Evolution and Medicine: The Long Reach of Dr. Darwin\", http://www.peh-med.com/content/2/1/4, written with Rebecca Pyles, Ph.D., and \"Are Animal Models Predictive for Humans\", http://www.peh-med.com/content/4/1/2, written with Ray Greek, MD., and Jean Greek, DVM).\n\n\nIn addition, Shanks has written over fifty scholarly articles and is also the author of numerous book reviews.\n"}
{"id": "1062901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1062901", "title": "Orthogenesis", "text": "Orthogenesis\n\nOrthogenesis, also known as orthogenetic evolution, progressive evolution, evolutionary progress, or progressionism, is the biological hypothesis that organisms have an innate tendency to evolve in a definite direction towards some goal (teleology) due to some internal mechanism or \"driving force\". According to the theory, the largest-scale trends in evolution have an absolute goal such as increasing biological complexity. Prominent historical figures who have championed some form of evolutionary progress include Jean-Baptiste Lamarck, Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, and Henri Bergson.\n\nThe term \"orthogenesis\" was introduced by Wilhelm Haacke in 1893 and popularized by Theodor Eimer five years later. Proponents of orthogenesis had rejected the theory of natural selection as the organizing mechanism in evolution for a rectilinear model of directed evolution. With the emergence of the modern synthesis, in which genetics was integrated with evolution, orthogenesis and other alternatives to Darwinism were largely abandoned by biologists, but the notion that evolution represents progress is still widely shared. The evolutionary biologist Ernst Mayr made the term effectively taboo in the journal \"Nature\" in 1948, by stating that it implied \"some supernatural force\". The American paleontologist George Gaylord Simpson (1953) attacked orthogenesis, linking it with vitalism by describing it as \"the mysterious inner force\". Modern supporters include E. O. Wilson and Simon Conway Morris, while museum displays and textbook illustrations continue to give the impression of progress in evolution.\n\nThe philosopher of biology Michael Ruse notes that in popular culture evolution and progress are synonyms, while the unintentionally misleading image of the \"March of Progress\", from apes to modern humans, has been widely imitated.\n\nThe term orthogenesis (from Ancient Greek ὀρθός orthós, \"straight\", and γένεσις génesis, \"origin\") was first used by the biologist Wilhelm Haacke in 1893. Theodor Eimer was the first to give the word a definition; he defined orthogenesis as \"the general law according to which evolutionary development takes place in a noticeable direction, above all in specialized groups\".\n\nIn 1922, the zoologist Michael F. Guyer wrote:\n\nAccording to Susan R. Schrepfer in 1983:\n\nIn 1988, Francisco J. Ayala defined progress as \"systematic change in a feature belonging to all the members of a sequence in such a way that posterior members of the sequence exhibit an improvement of that feature\". He argued that there are two elements in this definition, directional change and improvement according to some standard. Whether a directional change constitutes an improvement is not a scientific question; therefore Ayala suggested that science should focus on the question of whether there is directional change, without regard to whether the change is \"improvement\". This may be compared to Stephen Jay Gould's suggestion of \"replacing the idea of progress with an operational notion of directionality\".\n\nIn 1989, Peter J. Bowler defined orthogenesis as:\n\nIn 1996, Michael Ruse defined orthogenesis as \"the view that evolution has a kind of momentum of its own that carries organisms along certain tracks\".\n\nThe possibility of progress is embedded in the mediaeval great chain of being, with a linear sequence of forms from lowest to highest. The concept, indeed, had its roots in Aristotle's biology, from insects that produced only a grub, to fish that laid eggs, and on up to animals with blood and live birth. The mediaeval chain, as in Ramon Lull's \"Ladder of Ascent and Descent of the Mind\", 1305, added steps or levels above humans, with orders of angels reaching up to God at the top.\n\nThe orthogenesis hypothesis had a significant following in the 19th century when evolutionary mechanisms such as Lamarckism were being proposed. The French zoologist Jean-Baptiste Lamarck (1744–1829) himself accepted the idea, and it had a central role in his theory of inheritance of acquired characteristics, the hypothesized mechanism of which resembled the \"mysterious inner force\" of orthogenesis. Orthogenesis was particularly accepted by paleontologists who saw in their fossils a directional change, and in invertebrate paleontology thought there was a gradual and constant directional change. Those who accepted orthogenesis in this way, however, did not necessarily accept that the mechanism that drove orthogenesis was teleological (had a definite goal). Charles Darwin himself rarely used the term \"evolution\" now so commonly used to describe his theory, because the term was strongly associated with orthogenesis, as had been common usage since at least 1647.\n\nRuse observed that \"Progress \"(sic, his capitalisation)\" became essentially a nineteenth-century belief. It gave meaning to life—it offered inspiration—after the collapse [with Malthus's pessimism and the shock of the French revolution] of the foundations of the past.\"\nThe Russian biologist Karl Ernst von Baer (1792–1876) argued for an orthogenetic force in nature, reasoning in a review of Darwin's 1859 \"On the Origin of Species\" that \"Forces which are not directed—so-called blind forces—can never produce order.\" \nIn 1864, the Swiss anatomist Albert von Kölliker (1817–1905) presented his orthogenetic theory, \"heterogenesis\", arguing for wholly separate lines of descent with no common ancestor.\nIn 1884, the Swiss botanist Carl Nägeli (1817–1891) proposed a version of orthogenesis involving an \"inner perfecting principle\". Gregor Mendel died that same year; Nägeli, who proposed that an \"idioplasm\" transmitted inherited characteristics, dissuaded Mendel from continuing to work on plant genetics. According to Nägeli many evolutionary developments were nonadaptive and variation was internally programmed. Charles Darwin saw this as a serious challenge, replying that \"There must be some efficient cause for each slight individual difference\", but was unable to provide a specific answer without knowledge of genetics. Further, Darwin was himself somewhat progressionist, believing for example that \"Man\" was \"higher\" than the barnacles he studied.\nDarwin indeed wrote in his 1859 \"Origin of Species\":\n\nIn 1898, after studying butterfly coloration, Theodor Eimer (1843–1898) introduced the term orthogenesis with a widely read book, \"On Orthogenesis: And the Impotence of Natural Selection in Species Formation\". Eimer claimed there were trends in evolution with no adaptive significance that would be difficult to explain by natural selection. To supporters of orthogenesis, in some cases species could be led by such trends to extinction. Eimer linked orthogenesis to neo-Lamarckism in his 1890 book \"Organic Evolution as the Result of the Inheritance of Acquired Characteristics According to the Laws of Organic Growth\". He used examples such as the evolution of the horse to argue that evolution had proceeded in a regular single direction that was difficult to explain by random variation. Gould described Eimer as a materialist who rejected any vitalist or teleological approach to orthogenesis, arguing that Eimer's criticism of natural selection was common amongst many evolutionists of his generation; they were searching for alternative mechanisms, as they had come to believe that natural selection could not create new species.\n\nNumerous versions of orthogenesis (see table) have been proposed. Debate centred on whether such theories were scientific, or whether orthogenesis was inherently vitalistic or essentially theological. For example, biologists such as Maynard M. Metcalf (1914), John Merle Coulter (1915), David Starr Jordan (1920) and Charles B. Lipman (1922) claimed evidence for orthogenesis in bacteria, fish populations and plants. \nIn 1950, the German paleontologist Otto Schindewolf argued that variation tends to move in a predetermined direction. He believed this was purely mechanistic, denying any kind of vitalism, but that evolution occurs due to a periodic cycle of evolutionary processes dictated by factors internal to the organism.\nIn 1964 George Gaylord Simpson argued that orthogenetic theories such as those promulgated by Du Noüy and Sinnott were essentially theology rather than biology.\n\nThough evolution is not progressive, it does sometimes proceed in a linear way, reinforcing characteristics in certain lineages, but such examples are entirely consistent with the modern neo-Darwinian theory of evolution. These examples have sometimes been referred to as \"orthoselection\" but are not strictly orthogenetic, and simply appear as linear and constant changes because of environmental and molecular constraints on the direction of change. The term orthoselection was first used by Ludwig Hermann Plate, and was incorporated into the modern synthesis by Julian Huxley and Bernard Rensch.\n\nRecent work has supported the mechanism and existence of mutation-biased adaptation, meaning that limited local orthogenesis is now seen as possible.\n\nFor the columns for other philosophies of evolution (i.e., combined theories including any of Lamarckism, Mutationism, Natural selection, and Vitalism), \"yes\" means that person definitely supports the theory; \"no\" means explicit opposition to the theory; a blank means the matter is apparently not discussed, not part of the theory.\n\nThe various alternatives to Darwinian evolution by natural selection were not necessarily mutually exclusive. The evolutionary philosophy of the American palaeontologist Edward Drinker Cope is a case in point. Cope, a religious man, began his career denying the possibility of evolution. In the 1860s, he accepted that evolution could occur, but, influenced by Agassiz, rejected natural selection. Cope accepted instead the theory of recapitulation of evolutionary history during the growth of the embryo - that ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny, which Agassiz believed showed a divine plan leading straight up to man, in a pattern revealed both in embryology and palaeontology. Cope did not go so far, seeing that evolution created a branching tree of forms, as Darwin had suggested. Each evolutionary step was however non-random: the direction was determined in advance and had a regular pattern (orthogenesis), and steps were not adaptive but part of a divine plan (theistic evolution). This left unanswered the question of why each step should occur, and Cope switched his theory to accommodate functional adaptation for each change. Still rejecting natural selection as the cause of adaptation, Cope turned to Lamarckism to provide the force guiding evolution. Finally, Cope supposed that Lamarckian use and disuse operated by causing a vitalist growth-force substance, \"bathmism\", to be concentrated in the areas of the body being most intensively used; in turn, it made these areas develop at the expense of the rest. Cope's complex set of beliefs thus assembled five evolutionary philosophies: recapitulationism, orthogenesis, theistic evolution, Lamarckism, and vitalism. Other palaeontologists and field naturalists continued to hold beliefs combining orthogenesis and Lamarckism until the modern synthesis in the 1930s.\n\nThe stronger versions of the orthogenetic hypothesis began to lose popularity when it became clear that they were inconsistent with the patterns found by paleontologists in the fossil record, which were non-rectilinear (richly branching) with many complications. The hypothesis was abandoned by the mainstream of evolutionists when no mechanism could be found that would account for the process, and the theory of evolution by natural selection came to prevail. The historian of biology Edward J. Larson commented that\n\nThe modern synthesis of the 1930s and 1940s, in which the genetic mechanisms of evolution were incorporated, appeared to refute the hypothesis for good. As more was understood about these mechanisms it came to be held that there was no naturalistic way in which the newly discovered mechanism of heredity could be far-sighted or have a memory of past trends. Orthogenesis was seen to lie outside the methodological naturalism of the sciences.\n\nBy 1948, the evolutionary biologist Ernst Mayr, as editor of the journal \"Evolution\", made the use of the term \"orthogenesis\" taboo: \"It might be well to abstain from use of the word 'orthogenesis' .. since so many of the geneticists seem to be of the opinion that the use of the term implies some supernatural force.\" With the rise of evolutionary developmental biology in the late 20th-early 21st centuries, however, which is open to an expanded concept of heredity that incorporates the physics of self-organization, ideas of constraint and preferred directions of morphological change have made a reappearance in evolutionary theory.\n\nFor these and other reasons, belief in evolutionary progress has remained \"a persistent heresy\", among evolutionary biologists including E. O. Wilson and Simon Conway Morris, although often denied or veiled. The philosopher of biology Michael Ruse wrote that \"some of the most significant of today's evolutionists are progressionists, and that because of this we find (absolute) progressionism alive and well in their work.\" He argued that progressionism has harmed the status of evolutionary biology as a mature, professional science. Presentations of evolution remain characteristically progressionist, with humans at the top of the \"Tower of Time\" in the Smithsonian Institution in Washington D.C., while \"Scientific American\" magazine could illustrate the history of life leading progressively from mammals to dinosaurs to primates and finally man. Ruse noted that at the popular level, progress and evolution are simply synonyms, as they were in the nineteenth century, though confidence in the value of cultural and technological progress has declined.\n\nIn popular culture, progressionist images of evolution are widespread. The historian Jennifer Tucker, writing in \"The Boston Globe\", notes that Thomas Henry Huxley's 1863 illustration comparing the skeletons of apes and humans \"has become an iconic and instantly recognizable visual shorthand for evolution.\" She calls its history extraordinary, saying that it is \"one of the most intriguing, and most misleading, drawings in the modern history of science.\" Nobody, Tucker observes, supposes that the \"monkey-to-man\" sequence accurately depicts Darwinian evolution. \"The Origin of Species\" had only one illustration, a diagrams showing that random events create a process of branching evolution, a view that Tucker notes is broadly acceptable to modern biologists. But Huxley's image recalled the great chain of being, implying with the force of a visual image a \"logical, evenly paced progression\" leading up to \"Homo sapiens\", a view denounced by Stephen Jay Gould in \"Wonderful Life\".\n\nPopular perception, however, had seized upon the idea of linear progress. Edward Linley Sambourne's \"Man is But a Worm\", drawn for \"Punch's Almanack\", mocked the idea of any evolutionary link between humans and animals, with a sequence from chaos to earthworm to apes, primitive men, a Victorian beau, and Darwin in a pose that according to Tucker recalls Michelangelo's figure of Adam in his fresco adorning the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel. This was followed by a flood of variations on the evolution-as-progress theme, including \"The New Yorker\"'s 1925 \"The Rise and Fall of Man\", the sequence running from a chimpanzee to Neanderthal man, Socrates, and finally the lawyer William Jennings Bryan who argued for the anti-evolutionist prosecution in the Scopes Trial on the State of Tennessee law limiting the teaching of evolution. Tucker noted that Rudolph Franz Zallinger's 1965 \"The Road to Homo Sapiens\" fold-out illustration in F. Clark Howell's \"Early Man\", showing a sequence of 14 walking figures ending with modern man, fitted the palaeoanthropological discoveries \"not into a branching Darwinian scheme, but into the framework of the original Huxley diagram.\" Howell ruefully commented that the \"powerful and emotional\" graphic had overwhelmed his Darwinian text.\n\nScientists, Ruse argues, continue to slide easily from one notion of progress to another: even committed Darwinians like Richard Dawkins embed the idea of cultural progress in a theory of cultural units, memes, that act much like genes. Dawkins can speak of \"progressive rather than random ... trends in evolution\". Dawkins and John Krebs deny the \"earlier [Darwinian] prejudice\" that there is anything \"inherently progressive about evolution\", but the feeling of progress comes from evolutionary arms races which remain in Dawkins's words \"by far the most satisfactory explanation for the existence of the advanced and complex machinery that animals and plants possess\".\n\nRuse concludes his detailed analysis of the idea of \"Progress\", meaning a progressionist philosophy, in evolutionary biology by stating that evolutionary thought came out of that philosophy. Before Darwin, Ruse argues, evolution was just a pseudoscience; Darwin made it respectable, but \"only as popular science\". \"There it remained frozen, for nearly another hundred years\", until mathematicians such as Fisher provided \"both models and status\", enabling evolutionary biologists to construct the modern synthesis of the 1930s and 1940s. That made biology a professional science, at the price of ejecting the notion of progress. That, Ruse argues, was a significant cost to \"people [biologists] still firmly committed to Progress\" as a philosophy.\n\nBiology has largely rejected the idea that evolution is guided in any way, but the evolution of some features is indeed facilitated by the genes of the developmental-genetic toolkit studied in evolutionary developmental biology. An example is the development of wing pattern in some species of \"Heliconius\" butterfly, which have independently evolved similar patterns. These butterflies are Müllerian mimics of each other, so natural selection is the driving force, but their wing patterns, which arose in separate evolutionary events, are controlled by the same genes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2677249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2677249", "title": "Pointing-out instruction", "text": "Pointing-out instruction\n\nThe pointing-out instruction (\"ngo sprod\") is the direct introduction to the nature of mind in the Tibetan Buddhist lineages of Mahāmudrā and Dzogchen. In these traditions, a \"root guru\" gives the \"pointing-out instruction\" in such a way that the disciple successfully recognizes the \"nature of mind.\"\n\nThe tradition of conferring such instructions outside the context of formal empowerment () is unique to the Kagyu and Nyingma lineages. Whether or not such instructions are valid without the formal empowerment has historically been a point of contention with the more conservative Gelug and Sakya lineages. The pointing-out instruction is often equated with the fourth formal vajrayana empowerment.\n\nIn the Mahāmudrā tradition, pointing-out instruction ( \"ngotrö kyi dampa\") is also referred to as \"pointing out the nature of mind\" ( \"sem kyi ngotrö\"), \"pointing out transmission\", or \"introduction to the nature of mind\". In the Dzogchen tradition, the pointing out instructions are often called the “introduction to awareness” (\"rig pa'i ngo sprod\", pronounced \"rigpay notro\") or \"sems khrid,\" pronounced \"sem tri\". Senior Shambhala Buddhist teacher Jeremy Hayward describes this as \nIn the Mahāmudrā tradition, the mind pointed out is called \"ordinary mind\" ( \"tamel gyi shépa\", Sanskrit: *\"prākṛita-jñana\"). As the Dzogchen Ponlop Rinpoche explains, \nIn the Dzogchen tradition, knowledge of the basis pointed out is called \"rigpa\" (, Sanskrit: *\"vidya\").\n\nSometimes the pointing-out instruction is referred to as \"the empowerment of vajra wisdom,\" \"vajrayana transmission\" or \"esoteric transmission,\" although these terms can also be applied to formal abhiṣeka as well.\n\nAs scholar David Jackson describes, the particular Kagyu tradition of pointing-out instruction outside the tantras was popularized, if not originated, by Gampopa.\n\nOne of the special Great Seal (\"phyag rgya chen po: mahāmudrā\") teachings for which sGam-po-pa was best known was his so-called \"introduction to the [nature of] Mind\" (\"sems kyi ngo sprod\"), by which the disciple was led to confront and directly recognize the nature of his or her mind. sGam-po-pa is said to have given such Great Seal instructions sometimes not as secret Vajrayana precepts in connection with initiation and special yogic practices, but rather as a Sūtra-based Great Seal instruction, or even as a doctrine going beyond both Sūtra and Tantra. Later critics such as Sa-skya Paṇḍita (or Sa-paṇ, as he was known for short) maintained, however, that all true Great Seal instructions were Mantrayana teachings that necessitated full, formal Tantric initiation into a maṇḍala. These masters denied in general the existence of any Sūtra-based or non-Tantric Great Seal, and in particular they considered the existence of any Mahāyāna doctrine outside the classes of Pāramitāyāna and Mantrayāna to be impossible.\n\nJackson reports that, according to a number of Kagyu historians, Gampopa put particular emphasis on pointing out the nature of Mind. Jackson writes \nThere is evidence that this practice derived from (unacknowledged) Chan influence, a controversial issue in Tibet. As scholar Matthew Kapstein writes, the \nHow much of a departure this in fact represented from the Indian model has been a subject of ongoing research. As scholar Klaus-Dieter Mathes has found:\nAccording to scholar Trungram Gyaltrul Rinpoche Sherpa, introduction (\"ngo sprod\") \nTrungram notes that Gampopa uses \nThe mahāmudrā tradition also includes a \"fourfold pointing-out instructions\" (pointing out the nature of Mind on the basis of appearances) presented by Karmapa Wangchuk Dorje in his three texts on mahāmudrā.\n\nIn the Dzogchen tradition, the pointing out instructions are more often called the “introduction to awareness” (\"rig pa'i ngo sprod\", pronounced \"rigpay notro\") or \"direct introduction\" (Tibetan: ངོ་སྤྲོད་སྤྲས་པ, Wylie: \"ngo sprod spras pa\", literally \"directly encountering one's own state\"). The \"Empowerment of Awareness\" (, pronounced \"rigpay sall wahng\") is a technical term employed within the Dzogchen lineages for a particular lineage of empowerment propagated by Jigme Lingpa. This empowerment consists of the direct introduction of the student to the intrinsic nature of their own mind-essence, rigpa, by their empowering master.\n\nAlbion Moonlight Butters notes, \nSogyal Rinpoche describes the pointing out instructions given by Patrul Rinpoche to Nyoshul Lungtok:\n\nAccording to Dzogchen master Tulku Urgyen Rinpoche, \nBruce Newman, a long-time student of Tulku Urgyen's son, Chökyi Nyima Rinpoche, describes the possible responses of the student to the pointing out instruction:\n\nAccording to Orgyen Tobgyal Rinpoche, few contemporary disciples are capable of recognition, even when receiving pointing out instructions from superior masters:\n\nOnce I witnessed Tulku Urgyen Rinpoche give the pointing out instruction to a gathering of more than one thousand people in Taiwan. He still gave the real thing nakedly and directly, leaving nothing out. This must exemplify what they call the 'expression of compassionate capacity,' for he rose to the occasion out of the power of his realization. He said, 'The oral instruction is like a candle: you can see while you hold it, and when you give it away you have no more light. But since all of you have taken the trouble to come here, expecting to hear me speak, I feel that I cannot refuse giving you the pointing-out instruction.' Then he gave the instruction in coming face to face with your own nature. Even if the great Khyentse, Kongtrül or Longchenpa were doing so, it wouldn't surpass his instruction. Yet I later met only a few there who truly recognized their own nature. Even among Rinpoche's Western students there were some very close disciples who definitely should have recognized their buddha nature. They probably had some vague glimpse of recognition; yet they use empty words, and ignore the consequences of their actions. I have yet to meet one who has fully realized his teachings.\n\nThe Dzogchen Ponlop Rinpoche characterizes recognition as follows:\n\nReceiving pointing-out instructions is similar to watching a movie preview. Unless we see the preview, we have no idea what the movie will be about. So a preview is an excellent way to be introduced to what a particular movie might be like. We might see the preview and then decide to skip the filmthat is up to us. No one is going to force us to sit through the whole movie.\n\nSimilarly, we get a preview of the Mahamudra experience when we receive the pointing-out instructions from our guru. They give us a glimpse or flash experience of Mahamudra. They give us a sense of direction and motivate us to go further; however, it is up to us to extend our exploration so that we eventually come to a genuine realization of Mahamudra. Without this flash experience, we would have no way to be exposed to the nature of Mind so directly, so nakedly. That flash is a transmission of the lineage, a wonderful blessing through which we are introduced to the deeper experience and realization of the Mahamudra path. This shows how necessary it is to rely on the lineage transmission and to be connected to a genuine lineage master. Without the pure and genuine lineage, without a qualified lineage master, we would have no way to experience such a preview, such a flash experience.\n\nThis conspicuous aspect of Vajrayana Buddhism is esoteric. In this context esoteric means that the transmission of certain accelerating factors only occurs directly from teacher to student during an initiation and cannot be simply learned from a book. The term adhisthana (literally \"blessing\") refers to the spiritual energy that is received in the mindstream of the aspirant when successful transmission takes place.\n\nMany techniques are also commonly said to be secret, but some Vajrayana teachers have responded that the secrecy itself is not important but only a side-effect of the reality that the techniques have no validity outside the teacher-student lineage. As these techniques are said to be highly effective, when not practiced properly, the practitioner can be harmed physically and mentally. In order to avoid these kind of dangers, the practice is kept secret.\n\nAccording to the Dalai Lama in the \"Tradition of Mahamudra\":\n\nThe Kagyu system refers to those who manifest clear light mind by relying on the methods for penetrating vital points of the external and internal body as those who progress through graded stages of methods. Such practitioners manifest clear light mind by progressing through stages. Those with sharp faculties, however, may be practitioners for whom everything happens at once. The Nyingma tradition of dzogchen also distinguishes between these two types of practitioners. Those who manifest rigpa, pure awareness, by training through stages involving various practices with the energy-winds, tummo, and so forth are those who progress through graded stages, while those for whom everything happens at once achieve the same by relying solely on meditation on a nonconceptual state of mental consciousness without the practices of the energy channels and energy-winds.\n\nAccording to one Kagyu text, the method of practice of those for whom everything happens at once is powerful medicine. But it is deadly poison for those who progress through graded stages. In other words, the method of practice of meditating solely on the nonconceptual state of the mind is suited only for those of sharpest faculties. For those who are not of their level, such practice brings only harm, no benefit. For them the medicine acts like a poison.\n\nKaydrub Norzang-gyatso, in \"A Lamp for Clarifying Mahamudra to Establish the Single Intention of the Kagyu and Gelug Traditions\", has explained that those for whom everything happens at once are persons who have trained extensively through stages either in previous lives or earlier in this life. As a result, meditation on the nonconceptual state of the mind, without need to rely on any further meditation on penetrating vital points of the vajra-body, alone causes clear light mind to manifest so that everything happens at once. Such meditation does this by acting as a circumstance for triggering the ripening of potentials built up from previous practice with energy-winds and so forth, so that they automatically enter, abide and dissolve in the central energy-channel. If a practitioner has not built up these potentials, then no matter how intensively he or she may focus in a nonconceptual state of mind, this person is unable to manifest clear light mind or pure awareness. They lack sufficient causes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "990353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=990353", "title": "Polyculturalism", "text": "Polyculturalism\n\nPolyculturalism is an ideological approach to the consequences of intercultural engagements within a geographical area which emphasises similarities between, and the enduring interconnectedness of, groups which self-identify as distinct, thus blurring the boundaries which may be perceived by members of those groups. It differs from multiculturalism which instead emphasises the separateness of the identities of self-identifying cultural groups with an aim of preserving and celebrating their differences in spite of interactions between them. Supporters of polyculturalism oppose multiculturalism, arguing that the latter's emphasis on difference and separateness is divisive and harmful to social cohesion.\n\nThe concept of polyculturalism was first proposed by Robin Kelley and Vijay Prashad.\n\nResearch has shown that belief in polyculturalism is linked to cultural intelligence (CQ) in Australia and China.\n\nResearch shows that polyculturists are less likely to demonstrate sexist attitudes.\n\nResearch has shown that polyculturalism has a positive relationship with cross-cultural attitudes in both the Philippines and the United States of America.\n\nLike advocates of multiculturalism, proponents of polyculturalism encourage individuals to learn about different cultures, especially those they may come into contact with in their own areas. However whereas multiculturalism advocates for toleration between members of distictly different cultures groups, polyculturalism is less rigid and acknowledges that individual shape their own identities and may choose to change so as to express their culture in a different way to their own ancestors, either by adding elements of other cultures to it or by eliminating aspects of it.\n\nPolyculturalism rejects the concept of race as a social construct with no scientific basis, however it recognises the concept of ethnicity, considering ethno-nationalism a barrier which must be transcended in the pursuit of a dynamic community culture.\n\nCritics of multiculturalism argue that it entrenches identity politics while polyculturalism aims to forge a common new identity\n\nPolyculturalism acknowledges that cultures are dynamic, interactive and impure while multiculturalism treats them as static, isolated and complete.\n\nThe following table presents an overview of some ideologies.\n\nPolyculturalism was the subject of the 2001 book \"Everybody Was Kung Fu Fighting: Afro-Asian Connections and the Myth of Cultural Purity\" by Vijay Prashad.\n"}
{"id": "12225912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12225912", "title": "Samayasāra", "text": "Samayasāra\n\nSamayasāra (\"The Nature of the Self\") is a famous Jain text composed by \"Acharya Kundakunda\" in 439 verses. Its ten chapters discuss the nature of \"Jīva\" (pure self/soul), its attachment to Karma and Moksha (liberation). \"Samayasāra\" expounds the Jain concepts like \"Karma\", \"Asrava\" (influx of \"karmas\"), Bandha (Bondage), \"Samvara\" (stoppage), \"Nirjara\" (shedding) and Moksha (complete annihilation of \"karmas\").\n\nJainism says that shedding \"karmas\" i.e. getting rid of \"karmas\" leads to \"Moksha\" (liberation, salvation). \"Samayasāra\", in its \"Nirjara\" (shedding) chapter describes that shedding of \"karmas\" happens when a person observes both pleasant and unpleasant sensations without any \"Raag\" (attachment) and \"dveśa\" (aversion).\n\nThe first verse (aphorism) of the \"Samayasāra\" is an invocation: \n\nAccording to \"Samayasāra\", the real self is only that soul which has achieved ratnatraya i.e. Samyak Darshan, Samyak Gyan and Samyak Charitra. These state when soul achieves purity is Arihant and Siddha. It can be achieved by victory over five senses.\n\nAccording to \"Samayasāra\":\n\nIt has a number of commentaries on it including Atmakhyati of Acharya Amritchandra and Natak Samayasar of Banarasidas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "956677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=956677", "title": "Serenade", "text": "Serenade\n\nIn music, a serenade (; also sometimes called serenata, from the ) is a musical composition and/or performance delivered in honor of someone or something. Serenades are typically calm, light pieces of music. The term comes from the Italian word , which itself derives from the Latin .\n\nIn the oldest usage, which survives in informal form to the present day, a serenade is a musical greeting performed for a lover, friend, person of rank or other person to be honored. The classic usage would be from a lover to his lady love through a window. It was considered an evening piece, one to be performed on a quiet and pleasant evening, as opposed to an aubade, which would be performed in the morning. The custom of serenading in this manner began in the Medieval era, and the word \"serenade\" as commonly used in current English is related to this custom. Music performed followed no one particular form, except that it was typically sung by one person accompanying himself on a portable instrument, most likely a guitar, lute or other plucked instrument. Works of this type also appeared in later eras, but usually in a context that referred specifically to a past time, such as arias in an opera (there is a famous example in Mozart's \"Don Giovanni\"). Carl Maria von Weber composed his serenade for voice and guitar, \"Horch'! Leise horch', Geliebte!\" (1809).\n\nIn the Baroque era, a serenata—which the form was called since it occurred most frequently in Italy and Vienna—was a typically celebratory or eulogistic dramatic cantata for two or more singers and orchestra, performed outdoors in the evening by artificial light. Some composers of this type of serenade include Alessandro Stradella, Alessandro Scarlatti, Johann Joseph Fux, Johann Mattheson, and Antonio Caldara. Often these were large-scale works performed with minimal staging, intermediate between a \"cantata\" and an opera. The main difference between a \"cantata\" and a serenata, around 1700, was that the \"serenata\" was performed outdoors and therefore could use instruments which would be too loud in a small room (for example, trumpets, horns, and drums).\n\nThe most important and prevalent type of serenade in music history is a work for large instrumental ensemble in multiple movements, related to the divertimento, and mainly being composed in the Classical and Romantic periods, though a few examples exist from the 20th century. Usually the character of the work is lighter than other multiple-movement works for large ensemble (for example the symphony), with tunefulness being more important than thematic development or dramatic intensity. Most of these works are from Italy, Germany, Austria and Bohemia.\n\nAmong the most famous examples of the serenade from the 18th century are those by Mozart, whose serenades typically comprise between four and ten movements. His serenades were often purely instrumental pieces, written for special occasions such as those commissioned for wedding ceremonies. Famous serenades by Mozart include the \"Haffner\" Serenade, the \"Serenata notturna\", and one of his most famous works, \"Eine Kleine Nachtmusik.\" The last two of these, had they been written earlier in the century, would have been atypical for using only string instruments.\n\nBy the 19th century, the serenade had transformed into a concert work, and was less associated with outdoor performance for honorary occasions. Composers began to write serenades for other ensembles. The two serenades by Brahms are rather like light symphonies, perhaps more closely related to suites, except that they use an ensemble such as Mozart would have recognized: a small orchestra (in the case of the Serenade No. 2, an orchestra entirely without violins). Dvořák, Tchaikovsky, Josef Suk, Edward Elgar, and others wrote serenades for strings only, as did Hugo Wolf, who wrote one for string quartet (the \"Italian Serenade\"). Other composers to write serenades in a Romantic style include Ludwig van Beethoven, Hector Berlioz, Franz Schubert, Richard Strauss, Max Reger, Ethel Smyth and Jean Sibelius.\n\nSome examples of serenades in the 20th century include the \"Serenade for Tenor, Horn and Strings\" by Benjamin Britten, the Serenade in A for piano by Stravinsky, the Serenade for baritone and septet, Op. 24 by Arnold Schoenberg, and the movement entitled \"Serenade\" in Shostakovich's last string quartet, No. 15 (1974). Ralph Vaughan Williams wrote a \"Serenade to Music\" (for 16 solo voices and orchestra) that premiered in 1938, while Leonard Bernstein composed his \"Serenade after Plato's \"Symposium\"\" (for solo violin, strings harp and percussion) in 1954. These modern serenades are freely explored adaptations to the serenade's original formal layout and instrumentation.\n\nA serenade is commonly of a multi-movement structure, ranging anywhere from four to up to ten movements. They usually are constructed with a fast opening movement, followed by middle slow movements that alternate with fast ones and close with a fast presto or allegro movement. There are strong influences from chamber music, and serenades can be subtly inserted into a chamber music program. A serenade can be considered somewhere in between a suite and a symphony, but is usually of a light and romantic nature—casual and without too many overly dramatic moments.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23913465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23913465", "title": "Taizō-in", "text": "Taizō-in\n\nTaizō-in is well known for its two gardens. The main garden, Motonobu-no-niwa, is a traditional Japanese dry landscape garden (\"karesansui\"), containing several angular rocks suggesting the cliffs of the island of Hōrai, with smaller stones suggesting a stream. The planting is mostly evergreen, including camellia, pine, and Japanese umbrella pine. It covers 50 tsubo (170 m²) and was designed to integrate a borrowing of scenery (\"shakkei\") of a view of Narabigaoka Hill in the distance. It is thought to be the final work of Muromachi painter Kanō Motonobu (狩野 元信), reproducing one of his paintings in three dimensions.\n\nA new pond garden, or yoko-en, was designed by Kinsaku Nakane in 1963-1966. The new garden is large enough for visitors to walk in, and contains azaleas and a stream that cascades along the main axis, directly toward the main viewing position. The stream flows around rocks, gradually widening until it empties into a pool in front of the viewer.\n\nTaizō-in holds one of Japan's oldest ink paintings, , c.1413, by , which is a National Treasure of Japan. It is identified as a turning point in Muromachi painting, and represents a Zen koan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42892459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42892459", "title": "The Ethics of Immigration", "text": "The Ethics of Immigration\n\nThe Ethics of Immigration is a September 2013 book by the philosopher Joseph Carens.\n\nThe first eight chapters of the book argue for a robust system of migrant rights and equal treatment of migrants and natives, while conceding the legitimacy of nation-states and their discretionary control over migration. The ninth and tenth chapter discuss illegal immigrants, family reunification, and refugees. The eleventh chapter argues for open borders, and challenges the presumption of discretionary control over migration, while still staying within the framework of legitimacy of nation-states.\n\nDylan Matthews interviewed Carens on his book for the \"Wonkblog\" section of the \"Washington Post\". Carens was also interviewed about the book for \"New Books in Philosophy\".\n\nIn April 2014, \"Notre Dame Philosophical Reviews\" published a review of the book by Arash Abizadeh of McGill University. In late May 2014, the Crooked Timber blog hosted a symposium on the book, with contributions from Chris Bertram, Kenan Malik, Ryan Pevnick, Phillip Cole, Speranta Dumitru, Sarah Fine, Jo Shaw, Brian Weatherson, and others. Carens responded to the critiques in two blog posts.\n"}
{"id": "45273477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45273477", "title": "Tsikey Chokling Rinpoche", "text": "Tsikey Chokling Rinpoche\n\nTsikey Chokling Rinpoche is a teacher, writer, religious ritual master, and meditation master of the Nyingma school of Tibetan Buddhism.\n\nThere are four schools of Tibetan Buddhism which originated in the country of Tibet. The Nyingma school is the oldest of the four schools and stems from circa 800 A.D. when the master known as Guru Rinpoche came to Tibet and established Samye Monastery there. Numerous reincarnation lineages were created over the next few hundred years as an individual would want to continue the work of his life in a future life by being reincarnated and recognized by his students or teachers and trained again and then continue his work. This is most well known with the monk and political and religious teacher known as the Dalai Lama.\n\nTsikey Chokling Rinpoche has been recognized by the Karmapa as the fourth reincarnation of the 19th-century \"treasure-discoverer\" (tertön) Chokgyur Lingpa and is a holder of his Chokling Tersar lineage of teachings. He is currently the master of Vajrayana ceremonies at Ka-Nying Shedrup Ling monastery and of several other monasteries in Nepal. He also oversees monasteries, nunneries, and practice centers in Tibet, India, Bhutan, and Sikkim. He has published two books.\n\nTulku Urgyen Rinpoche, Tibetan Dzogchen meditation teacher to many students, including the 16th Karmapa, is the father of Tsikey Chokling Rinpoche. Chokling Rinpoche's brothers are Chokyi Nyima Rinpoche, Tsoknyi Rinpoche, and Mingyur Rinpoche. Like his father, his grandfather and himself, Chokling Rinpoche's two sons have been recognized with the title \"Rinpoche\" based on their reincarnation lineage: Phakchok Rinpoche, the reincarnation and the lineage holder of the Taklung Kagyu lineage and the reincarnation of Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche, Khyentse Yangsi Rinpoche.\n\nTsikey Chokling Rinpoche through his foundation, The Chokgyur Lingpa Foundation, supports both many different projects including religious, humanitarian, and educational projects through the Monastic Education Fund. The healthcare projects are aimed at providing treatments throughout Nepal where needed, as well as longer-term healthcare improvement, through the Vajra Varahi Healthcare Clinic, the annual Dental and Medical Camps. The Foundation hosts publication teams through Lhasey Lotsawa Translations & Publications, a growing team of translators. Committed to making more of the Dharma accessible to fellow students worldwide, the mission is to produce authentic and accessible translations in many languages.\n\nThe Chokgyur Lingpa Foundation is also building Zangdok Palri (a model of Padmasambhava's pure land, Copper-Colored Mountain) in Vajravarahi, outside Kathmandu, Nepal. The Chokgyur Lingpa Foundation has a growing number of organizations around the world as well as students in many countries, more than fifty, including Malaysia, United States, Poland, Singapore, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Taiwan, Thailand, Germany, Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Austria, Scotland, Great Britain and Israel. Chokling Rinpoche is on the board of the non-profit organization Rangjung Yeshe Shenpen, also based in Nepal.\n\nOn Saturday, March 25, 2015, Nepal suffered a major earthquake that registered 7.8 on the Richter scale. This was the largest earthquake for at least 80 years. Large and numerous aftershocks by the hundreds followed in the weeks following that earthquake. Many thousands of people died and hundreds of thousands were left homeless and in need of medical care. Under the direction of Tsikey Chokling Rinpoche and Phakchok Rinpoche and senior monks, everyone associated with Tsikey Chokling Rinpoche, his monastery, and his foundation in Nepal have organized to help rebuild Nepal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38390287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38390287", "title": "Upeksha (Indian thought)", "text": "Upeksha (Indian thought)\n\nUpeksha in Sanskrit or Upekkha in Pali means equanimity, non-attachment, even-mindedness or letting go. \"Upeksha\" does not mean indifference. It is the fourth element of true love and has as its seed the wisdom of equality that removes all boundaries, discrimination and prejudices while leading to the sublime unity where there is no self and no other; without \"Upeksha\", love becomes possessive. Equanimity or \"Upeksha\" grows out of mindfulness, then one becomes master of every situation no matter what the situation is without it one cannot take anything in one’s stride; its significance is that one really lives unconditionally.\n\nThe understanding that our happiness and that of others is inseparable moves us directly into the fourth \"Brahmavihara\", \"Upeksha\". Equanimity of \"Upeksha\" carries the ability to take a large view and to look over the whole situation not bound by one side or the other, its near-enemy is in-difference which is difficult to recognise because it masquerades on the surface as even-mindedness; indifference causes retreat to a form of denial like repression, don’t care-can’t be bothered attitude. \n\nIn Yoga, \"maîtri\", \"karuna\", \"mudita\" and \"upeksha\" are only different aspects of universal sympathy, which remove all perversities in our nature and unite us with our fellow-men. This is the positive aspect of the mind with reference to abstinence from injuring (\"ahimsa\") which will cleanse the mind and make it fit for \"Śraddhā\" etc., prepare it to become steady with a view to attaining true discriminative knowledge. It is a \"karmasthana\" that holds a very high place in \"sadhana\". Like equality in Bhagavad Gita, \"upeksha\" of the Buddhists operates on many levels, and ten kinds of upeksha are enumerated; it is the equality called the six-limbed upeksha which renounces all the creaturely reactions of the six senses when anything agreeable or disagreeable presents itself. Samadhi may also involve the cultivation of the four states called Brahmaviharas which four states are - \"goodwill\" (\"maîtri\"), \"compassion\" (\"karuna\"), \"sympathetic joy\" (\"mudita\") and \"equanimity\" (\"upeksha\"). Practised to perfection these states take one to pure the mind-states on the plane of formlessness that are proximate to the apex of existence.\n\n\"Upeksha\" as a power includes freedom from all kinds of desires and birth because it has no preference for one thing more than the other. It is opposed to individuality. This power manifests as ten kinds which are – \"Sadangopeksha\" (when there is neither pleasure nor displeasure), \"Brahma-wiharopeksha\" (when the mind is equally affected towards all beings), \"Bowdyangopeksha\" (when the mind is equally affected towards all thoughts), \"Wiryopeksha\" (when the mind is equally affected by the same force of determination), \"Sankharopeksha\" (when the mind is equally affected towards all kinds of wisdom), \"Wedanopeksha\" (when the mind is sensible to neither pleasure nor pain), \"Widarsanopeksha\" (when the mind is not affected by what is seen), \"Tatramadyastopeksha\" (when all modes of upeksha are applied together), \"Dhyanopeksha\" (when the impermanency of sensible-objects is regarded with an even mind)and \"Parisudi-upeksha\" (when the mind is equally affected towards all that is necessary to secure freedom from the cleaving to existence). All upekshas may be possessed by one and the same person but the second cannot be possessed without the first. \n\nAccording to the Theosophists, \"maitri\", \"karuna\", \"mudita\" and \"upeksha\" are the four qualities of a \"Jivanmukta\" who favours \"Sishya\" (\"disciple\") who attains \"mukti\", \"Bhakta\" (\"devotee\") who gains his noble ends, \"Udasina\" (\"indifferent person\") who begins to cherish love for virtuous deeds and \"Pathaka\" (a \"sinner\") whose sins are purged, and whose \"lakshanas\" are \"akkrodha\" (\"absence of hatred\"), \"arogya\" (\"sound health\"), \"jitendriyathawam\" (\"conquest of passions\"), \"daya\" (kindness), \"kshama\" (forbearance), \"janapriyathawa\" (popularity), \"alobha\" (\"absence of avarice\"), \"dathruthawa\" (generosity), \"abhaya\" (courage) and \"nairmalaya\" (cleanliness).\n\nAlong with the four \"upayas\" (sama, dana, bheda and danda) that were then the recognised expedients for application of foreign policy Kamandaka and others had recommended application of Upeksha, Maya and Indrajala in diplomacy; the enemy could be warded off or neutralised by a policy of \"Upeksha\" and absolute indifference to even movements of enemy troops.\n"}
{"id": "2066951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2066951", "title": "William Mitchell (philosopher)", "text": "William Mitchell (philosopher)\n\nSir William Mitchell (27 March 1861 – 24 June 1962) was Professor of English Language, Literature, Mental and Moral Philosophy at the University of Adelaide from 1894–1922, Vice-Chancellor 1916–1942 and Chancellor 1942–1948.\n\nMitchell was an enthusiast for literary societies, and was in 1883 a foundation member of the South Australian Literary Societies' Union, served as its president in 1901, and remained a staunch supporter of the Union in 1937.\n\nMitchell wrote about issues overlapping philosophy of mind and science, neurology, quantum theory and philosophical psychology.\n\nHis work is the subject of a book by W. Martin Davies, \"The philosophy of Sir William Mitchell, 1861–1962 : a mind's own place\" (2003) .\n\nHe is also the benefactor of The Professor Sir William Mitchell Prize for Philosophy, Level II, and gives his name to the South Australian Electoral District of Mitchell.\n\nOn 18 January 1900 William Mitchell married Marjory Erlistoun Barr Smith (1868 – 3 August 1913), fourth daughter of Robert Barr Smith. Their daughter Joanna \"Nan\" Mitchell (1900– ) married Major David Thompson, of Farnham House, Farnham Royal. Buckinghamshire c. 1 May 1925.\n\nMitchell was knighted in 1927.\n\n"}
{"id": "45506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45506", "title": "World peace", "text": "World peace\n\nWorld peace, or peace on Earth, is the concept of an ideal state of happiness, freedom and peace within and among all people and nations on earth. This idea of world non-violence is one motivation for people and nations to willingly cooperate, either voluntarily or by virtue of a system of governance that objects it will be solved by cookie \nlove and peace. Different cultures, religions, philosophies and organisations have varying concepts on how such a state would come about.\n\nVarious religious and secular organisations have the stated aim of achieving world peace through addressing human rights, technology, education, engineering, medicine or diplomacy used as an end to all forms of fighting. Since 1945, the United Nations and the 5 permanent members of its Security Council (the US, Russia, China, France and the UK) have operated under the aim to resolve conflicts without war or declarations of war. Nonetheless, nations have entered numerous military conflicts since then.\n\nMany theories as to how world peace could be achieved have been proposed. Several of these are listed below.\n\nThe term is traced back to the Roman Emperor Hadrian (reigned AD 117 – 138) but the concept is as old as the recorded history. The Egyptian god Ptah says that Ramses II's (1279–1213 BC) \"strength\" causes every country \"to crave peace\":\n\nIn 1943, at the peak of World War II, the founder of the Paneuropean Union, Richard von Coudenhove-Kalergi, argued that after the War the United States is bound to take \"command of the skies\" to ensure the lasting world peace:\n\nIn fact, near the entrance to the headquarters of the SAC at Offutt Air Base stands a large sign with a SAC emblem and its motto: \"Peace is our profession.\" The motto \"was a staggering paradox that was also completely accurate.\" One SAC Bomber—Convair B-36—is called \"Peacemaker\" and one inter-continental missile-LGM-118-\"Peacekeeper\".\n\nIn 2016, former US Secretary of Defense Ash Carter envisaged that the rebalance to the Asia-Pacific will make the region \"peaceful\" through \"strength\": \n\nIntroduction to US National Security and Defense Strategies of 2018 states: The US force posture combined with the allies will \"preserve peace through strength.\" The document proceeds to detail what \"achieving peace through strength requires.\"\n\nAssociated with \"peace through strength\" are concepts of \"preponderance of power\" (as opposed to balance of power), hegemonic stability theory, \"unipolar stability\", and imperial peace (such as Pax Romana, Pax Britannica, or Pax Americana).\n\nWorld peace would be a consequence of the anarchist communist world. According to the dialectic materialist theory of Karl Marx, the humanity is divided in just 2 classes in capitalism, the proletarians -that do not possess the means of production- and the bourgeoisie -that possesses the means of production-, once that the communist revolution, that shall abolish the private propriety of the means of production, have happened, humanity will not be divided anymore and a lot of changes will happen. Through a period called socialism the dictatorship of the proletarians will take charge of getting rid of the last vestiges of capitalism, and help to make the revolution worldwide. Once the private propriety have been abolished worldwide, the state will not longer be useful and will disappear, because the government only exists to protect the dominant class, effectively dominating with violence and fear the submitted class, but there will not be classes anymore, and therefore none will require to dominate anyone. Instead organisations of workers will manage the production of things, but no organisation will have any military power, neither police force or prisons.\n\nThe main principle of Marx's theory is that the material conditions limit the spiritual conditions. People will not be violent but respecting, peaceful and altruistic, because the material conditions will finally allow them to be so. They do not longer need to live just aiming to earn money, but they live to develop themselves spiritually. With the material problems solved, and everyone receiving education and being provided the appropriate circumstances for their intellectual development, there will not any problem, and society will work getting from each one what one has the capacity to give, and providing to each one what one need.\n\nLeon Trotsky argued that a proletariat world revolution would lead to world peace.\n\nProponents of the democratic peace theory claim that strong empirical evidence exists that democracies never or rarely wage war against each other.\n\nThere are, however, several wars between democracies that have taken place, historically.\n\nIn her essay \"The Roots of War\", Ayn Rand held that the major wars of history were started by the more controlled economies of the time against the freer ones and that capitalism gave mankind the longest period of peace in history—a period during which there were no wars involving the entire civilized world—from the end of the Napoleonic wars in 1815 to the outbreak of World War I in 1914, with the exceptions of the Franco-Prussian War (1870), the Spanish–American War (1898), and the American Civil War (1861–1865), which notably occurred in perhaps the most liberal economy in the world at the beginning of the industrial revolution.\n\nProponents of Cobdenism claim that by removing tariffs and creating international free trade wars would become impossible, because free trade prevents a nation from becoming self-sufficient, which is a requirement for long wars.\n\nHowever, free trade does not prevent a nation from establishing some sort of emergency plan to become temporarily self-sufficient in case of war or that a nation could simply acquire what it needs from a different nation. A good example of this is World War I, during which both Britain and Germany became partially self-sufficient. This is particularly important because Germany had no plan for creating a war economy.\n\nMore generally, free trade—while not making wars impossible—can make wars, and restrictions on trade caused by wars, very costly for international companies with production, research, and sales in many different nations. Thus, a powerful lobby—unless there are only national companies—will argue against wars.\n\nMutual assured destruction is a doctrine of military strategy in which a full-scale use of nuclear weapons by two opposing sides would effectively result in the destruction of both belligerents. Proponents of the policy of mutual assured destruction during the Cold War attributed this to the increase in the lethality of war to the point where it no longer offers the possibility of a net gain for either side, thereby making wars pointless.\n\nAfter World War II, the United Nations was established by the United Nations Charter to \"save successive generations from the scourge of war which twice in our lifetime has brought untold sorrow to mankind\" (Preamble). The Preamble to the United Nations Charter also aims to further the adoption of fundamental human rights, to respect obligations to sources of international law as well as to unite the strength of independent countries in order to maintain international peace and security. All treaties on international human rights law make reference to or consider \"the principles proclaimed in the Charter of the United Nations, recognition of the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the foundation of freedom, justice and \"peace in the world\".\n\nDeclaration of Peace and Cessation of War (DPCW) with 10 article and 38 clauses is an international legal framework drafted by HWPL International Law Peace Committee, composed of international law experts from 15 countries. DPCW is proclaimed as a law for peace, which promotes the engagement of civil society actors, by provoking their advocacy and promoting voluntary practices of democratic values, as peace is considered difficult to be achieved only by the voices of the elites or with current institutions. \n\nThe Preambles of DPCW are:1. Prohibit the threat or use of force; 2. Reduce war potential and repurpose weapons to benefit humanity; 3. Develop friendly relations and prohibit acts of aggression; 4. Prohibit coercion against internationally recognised state boundaries; 5. Ensure the right to self-determination of peoples of states; 6. Settle international disputes through peaceful means; 7. Acknowledge the right to self-defence; 8. Foster religious freedom; 9. Promote peaceful coexistence amongst religious and ethnic groups; 10. Spread a culture of peace.\n\nAlong with the global movement of support from civil society, increasing awareness and support of DPCW from former and current heads of states, civil society actors and government representatives from different countries are received such that the legal document to be submitted and introduced into the UN. \n\nGordon B. Hinckley saw a trend in national politics by which city-states and nation-states have unified and suggests that the international arena will eventually follow suit. Many countries such as China, Italy, the United States, Australia, Germany, India and Britain have unified into single nation-states with others like the European Union following suit, suggesting that further globalization will bring about a world state.\n\nWorld peace has been depicted as a consequence of local, self-determined behaviors that inhibit the institutionalization of power and ensuing violence. The solution is not so much based on an agreed agenda, or an investment in higher authority whether divine or political, but rather a self-organized network of mutually supportive mechanisms, resulting in a viable politico-economic social fabric. The principal technique for inducing convergence is thought experiment, namely backcasting, enabling anyone to participate no matter what cultural background, religious doctrine, political affiliation or age demographic. Similar collaborative mechanisms are emerging from the Internet around open-source projects, including Wikipedia, and the evolution of other social media.\n\nEconomic norms theory links economic conditions with institutions of governance and conflict, distinguishing personal clientelist economies from impersonal market-oriented ones, identifying the latter with permanent peace within and between nations.\n\nThrough most of human history societies have been based on personal relations: individuals in groups know each other and exchange favors. Today in most lower-income societies hierarchies of groups distribute wealth based on personal relationships among group leaders, a process often linked with clientelism and corruption. Michael Mousseau argues that in this kind of socio-economy conflict is always present, latent or overt, because individuals depend on their groups for physical and economic security and are thus loyal to their groups rather than their states, and because groups are in a constant state of conflict over access to state coffers. Through processes of bounded rationality, people are conditioned towards strong in-group identities and are easily swayed to fear outsiders, psychological predispositions that make possible sectarian violence, genocide, and terrorism.\n\nMarket-oriented socio-economies are integrated not with personal ties but the impersonal force of the market where most individuals are economically dependent on trusting strangers in contracts enforced by the state. This creates loyalty to a state that enforces the rule of law and contracts impartially and reliably and provides equal protection in the freedom to contract – that is, liberal democracy. Wars cannot happen within or between nations with market-integrated economies because war requires the harming of others, and in these kinds of economies everyone is always economically better off when others in the market are also better off, not worse off. Rather than fight, citizens in market-oriented socio-economies care deeply about everyone's rights and welfare, so they demand economic growth at home and economic cooperation and human rights abroad. In fact, nations with market-oriented socio-economies tend to agree on global issues and not a single fatality has occurred in any dispute between them.\n\nEconomic norms theory should not be confused with classical liberal theory. The latter assumes that markets are natural and that freer markets promote wealth. In contrast, Economic norms theory shows how market-contracting is a learned norm, and state spending, regulation, and redistribution are necessary to ensure that almost everyone can participate in the \"social market\" economy, which is in everyone's interests. One proposed mechanism for world peace involves consumer purchasing of renewable and equitable local food and power sources involving artificial photosynthesis ushering in a period of social and ecological harmony known as the Sustainocene.\n\nThe International Day of Peace, sometimes called World Peace Day, is observed annually on 21 September. It is dedicated to peace, and specifically the absence of war and violence, and can be celebrated by a temporary ceasefire in a combat zone. The International Day of Peace was established in 1981 by the United Nations General Assembly. Two decades later, in 2001, the General Assembly unanimously voted to designate the day as a day of preventing violence and a cease-fire. The celebration of this day is recognized by many nations and people. In 2013, for the first time, the day has been dedicated to peace education, i.e. by the key preventive means to reduce war sustainably.\n\nMany religions and religious leaders have expressed a desire for an end to violence.\n\nThe central aim of the Bahá'í Faith is the establishment of the unity of the peoples of the world. Bahá'u'lláh, the founder of the Bahá'í Faith, stated in no uncertain terms, \"the fundamental purpose animating the Faith of God and His Religion is to safeguard the interests and promote the unity of the human race ...\" In His writings, Bahá'u'lláh described two distinct stages of world peace – a lesser peace and a most great peace.\n\nThe lesser peace is essentially a collective security agreement between the nations of the world. In this arrangement, nations agree to protect one another by rising up against an aggressor nation, should it seek the usurpation of territory or the destruction of its neighbors. The lesser peace is limited in scope and is concerned with the establishment of basic order and the universal recognition of national borders and the sovereignty of nations. Bahá'ís believe that the lesser peace is taking place largely through the operation of the Divine Will, and that Bahá'í influence on the process is relatively minor.\n\nThe most great peace is the eventual end goal of the lesser peace and is envisioned as a time of spiritual and social unity – a time when the peoples of the world genuinely identify with and care for one another, rather than simply tolerating one other's existence. The Bahá'ís view this process as taking place largely as a result of the spread of Bahá'í teachings, principles and practices throughout the world. The larger world peace process and its foundational elements are addressed in the document \"The Promise of World Peace\", written by the Universal House of Justice.\n\nMany Buddhists believe that world peace can only be achieved if we first establish peace within our minds. The idea is that anger and other negative states of mind are the cause of wars and fighting. Buddhists believe people can live in peace and harmony only if we abandon negative emotions such as anger in our minds and cultivate positive emotions such as love and compassion. As with all Dharmic religions (Hinduism, Jainism, Buddhism and Sikhism), ahimsa (avoidance of violence) is a central concept.\n\nPeace pagodas are monuments that are built to symbolize and inspire world peace and have been central to the peace movement throughout the years. These are typically of Buddhist origin, being built by the Japanese Buddhist organisation Nipponzan Myohoji. They exist around the world in cities such as London, Vienna, New Delhi, Tokyo and Lumbini.\n\nThe basic Christian ideal specifies that peace can only come by the Word and love of God, which is perfectly demonstrated in the life of Christ:\n\nAs christologically interpreted from , whereupon the \"Word of the Lord\" is established on the earth, the material human-political result will be 'nation not taking up sword against nation; nor will they train for war anymore'. Christian world peace necessitates the living of a proactive life replete with all good works in direct light of the Word of God. The details of such a life can be observed in the Gospels, especially the historically renowned Sermon on the Mount, where forgiving those who do wrong things against oneself is advocated among other pious precepts.\n\nHowever, not all Christians expect a lasting world peace on this earth:\n\nMany Christians believe that world peace is expected to be manifest upon the \"new earth\" that is promised in Christian scripture such as .\n\nThe Roman Catholic religious conception of \"Consecration of Russia\", related to the Church's high-priority Fátima Marian apparitions, promises \"world peace\" as a result of this process being fulfilled.\n\nTraditionally, Hinduism has adopted an ancient Sanskrit phrase \"Vasudha eka kutumbakam\", which translates as \"The world is one family.\" The essence of this concept is the observation that only base minds see dichotomies and divisions. The more we seek wisdom, the more we become inclusive and free our internal spirit from worldly illusions or \"Maya\". World peace is hence only achieved through internal means—by liberating ourselves from artificial boundaries that separate us all. As with all Dharmic religions (Hinduism, Jainism, Buddhism and Sikhism), ahimsa (avoidance of violence) is a central concept.\n\nAccording to Islamic eschatology, the whole world will be united under the leadership of prophet Isa in his second coming. At that time love, justice and peace will be so abundant that the world will be in likeness of paradise.\n\nThe concept of \"Tikkun olam\" (Repairing the World) is central to modern Rabbinic Judaism. \"Tikkun olam\" is accomplished through various means, such as ritualistically performing God's commandments, charity and social justice, as well as through example persuading the rest of the world to behave morally. According to some views, Tikkun Olam would result in the beginning of the Messianic Age. It has been said that in every generation, a person is born with the potential to be the spiritual Messiah. If the time is right for the Messianic Age within that person's lifetime, then that person will be the mashiach. But if that person dies before he completes the mission of the Messiah, then that person is not the Messiah (Mashiach).\n\nSpecifically, in Jewish messianism it is considered that at some future time a \"Messiah\" (literally \"a King appointed by God\") will rise up to bring all Jews back to the Land of Israel, followed by everlasting global peace and prosperity. This idea originates from passages in the Old Testament and the Talmud.\n\nCompassion for all life, human and non-human, is central to Jainism.They have adopted the wordings of Lord Mahvira Jiyo aur Jeeno Do Human life is valued as a unique, rare opportunity to reach enlightenment; to kill any person, no matter what crime he may have committed, is considered unimaginably abhorrent. It is a religion that requires monks and laity, from all its sects and traditions, to be vegetarian. Some Indian regions, such as Gujarat, have been strongly influenced by Jains and often the majority of the local Hindus of every denomination have also become vegetarian. Famous quote on world peace as per Jainism by a 19th-century Indian legend, Virchand Gandhi: \"May peace rule the universe; may peace rule in kingdoms and empires; may peace rule in states and in the lands of the potentates; may peace rule in the house of friends and may peace also rule in the house of enemies.\" As with all Dharmic religions (Hinduism, Jainism, Buddhism and Sikhism), ahimsa (avoidance of violence) is a central concept.\n\nPeace comes from God. Meditation, the means of communicating with God, is unfruitful without the noble character of a devotee, there can be no worship without performing good deeds. Guru Nanak stressed now \"kirat karō\": that a Sikh should balance work, worship, and charity, and should defend the rights of all creatures, and in particular, fellow human beings. They are encouraged to have a \"chaṛdī kalā\", or \"optimistic\" – \"resilience\", view of life. Sikh teachings also stress the concept of sharing—\"vaṇḍ chakkō\"—through the distribution of free food at Sikh gurdwaras (\"laṅgar\"), giving charitable donations, and working for the good of the community and others (\"sēvā\"). Sikhs believe that no matter what race, sex, or religion one is, all are equal in God's eyes. Men and women are equal and share the same rights, and women can lead in prayers. As with all Dharmic religions (Hinduism, Jainism, Buddhism and Sikhism), ahimsa (avoidance of violence) is a central concept.\n\nA report in June 2015 on the Global Peace Index highlighted that the impact of violence on the global economy reached US$14.3 trillion. The report also found that the economic cost of violence is 13.4% of world GDP, equal to the total economic output of Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, Spain and the UK combined.\n\n"}
