{"id": "37960666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37960666", "title": "Adolf Bötticher", "text": "Adolf Bötticher\n\nAdolf Bötticher or Adolf Boetticher (12 December 1842 – 9 June 1901) was a German art historian and conservator.\n\nBötticher was born in Blumberg, Brandenburg, and studied at the Bauakademie in Berlin (1865–68). After performing excavatory work in Greece from 1875–77, he published a weekly newspaper for architects and engineers (\"Wochenblatt für Architekten und Ingenieure\"). In 1886 Bötticher headed the registry for historic buildings and art monuments in East Prussia, and in 1891 he was named conservator for the province. He died in Warnicken.\nFrom 1891–98 he published the 8-volume \"Die Bau und Kunstdenkmäler der Provinz Ostpreussen\" (9th volume, 1899 by Walther von Schimmelfennig), documenting architectural and artistic landmarks of East Prussia. Other noted works by Bötticher include:\n"}
{"id": "25750508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25750508", "title": "Adolph P. Yushkevich", "text": "Adolph P. Yushkevich\n\nAdolph-Andrei Pavlovich Yushkevich (; 15 July 1906 – 17 July 1993) was a Soviet historian of mathematics, leading expert in medieval mathematics of the East and the work of Leonhard Euler. He is a winner of George Sarton Medal by the History of Science Society for a lifetime of scholarly achievement.\n\nYushkevich was born in Odessa, then Russian Empire, in today's Ukraine, to a Jewish family. His father was Pavel Yushkevich a Sorbonne-educated philosopher and a mathematician, active in politics as a Menshevik who was in \"ssylka\" (deportation) in Siberia, and later in France. His uncle, Semen Solomonovich Yushkevich was a well-known Jewish writer. Yushkevich grew up in St. Petersburg and later in Paris where he lived until Russian Revolution of 1917, when Yushkevich family returned to Odessa. For a time, Sofya Yanovskaya was one of Adolf's teachers in a gymnasium.\n\nIn 1923, Yushkevich started his studies at the Department of Mathematics of Moscow State University. His doctoral advisor was Dmitri Egorov, but he was awarded a Ph.D. degree without a defense. From 1930 to 1952 he worked at Bauman Technical University where he rose to professorship in 1940 and head of the department of mathematics in 1941. In the years 1941–1943 he was evacuated to Izhevsk, together with the whole Bauman Technical University. Starting 1952, he became a full-time researcher at Vavilov Institute of Natural History, where he worked until retirement.\n\nYushkevich published over 300 works in history of mathematics. For his work, he received numerous honors, including George Sarton Medal (1978), Koyré Medal by the International Academy of the History of Science (1971), May Prize (1989) by the International Commission on the History of Mathematics, Prize of the German Academy of Sciences Berlin (twice, in 1978 and 1983), and Prize of the French Academy of Sciences (1982). He was a member of several foreign academies, including German Academy of Sciences Leopoldina, and president of the International Academy of the History of Science (1965–1968).\n\nYushkevich died in Moscow in 1993. He bequeathed his personal library to the Vavilov Institute.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "320348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=320348", "title": "Alexander Gerschenkron", "text": "Alexander Gerschenkron\n\nAlexander Gerschenkron (; 1 October 1904 – 26 October 1978) was a Ukrainian-born American economic historian and professor at Harvard University, trained in the Austrian School of economics.\n\nBorn in Odessa, then part of the Russian Empire, Gerschenkron fled the country during the Russian Civil War in 1920 to Austria, where he attended the University of Vienna, earning a doctorate in 1928. After the Anschluss in 1938, he emigrated to the United States.\n\nGerschenkron was born in Odessa into an elite family of the Russian intelligentsia. When he was 16, he and his father left Russia during the period of the Bolshevik Revolution. They eventually settled in Vienna, Austria. There he taught himself languages including, German and Latin. In 1924, he enrolled in the University of Vienna's school of economics, graduating in 1928.\n\nAfter graduation, Gerschenkron got married and had a child. He found work in Vienna as a representative for a Belgian motorcycle firm. He worked for the firm for three year, but then decided to commit himself to politics, in particular the Social Democrats. However, in 1934 the party ceased to exist after the Austrian Civil War.\n\nIn 1938, Gerschenkron and his family emigrated to the United States after the annexation of Austria to the German Reich. Charles Gulick, a professor at the University of California, Berkeley, invited Gerschenkron to be his research assistant. Gerschenkron spent twelve months researching and writing to help produce Gulick's book, \"Austria: From Habsburg to Hitler\". He researched at the University of California, Berkeley, for five years and then in 1943 he moved to Washington, D. C., to join the Federal Reserve Board.\n\nIn 1944 he worked with the Federal Reserve in the Research and Statistics department. During his time on the Federal Reserve Board, Gerschenkron established himself as an expert on the Soviet economy. His knowledge was of vital importance to the Board, because it was during a time when the relationship between the Soviet Union and the United States was a central issue. He worked on the Federal Reserve Board for four years, and was eventually promoted to the head of the International Section.\n\nIn 1945, Gerschenkron became an American citizen and in 1948, he left the Federal Reserve Board to accept a position as a tenured professor at Harvard University. He was a Professor of Economics at Harvard for about 25 years. There, he taught economic history and Soviet studies.\n\nIn a recent research article, the Dutch social historian Marcel van der Linden demonstrates that Gerschenkron was a member of the Social Democratic Workers' Party of Austria, one of the two major political parties in Austria, which has ties to the Austrian Trade Union Federation (ÖGB) and the Austrian Chamber of Labour (AK); and, later, the Communist Party of Austria, both banned between 1933 and 1945 under both the Austrofascist regime and the Nazi German control of Austria after the 1938 Anschluss. Gerschenkron kept his former political affiliations a secret after he was able to immigrate to the United States.\n\nGerschenkron kept to his Russian roots—in his economics, history and as a critic of Russian literature. His early work concentrated on development in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. In a celebrated 1947 article, he found the \"Gerschenkron effect\" (changing the base year for an index determines the growth rate of the index). His early work often pursued the statistical tricks of Soviet planners.\n\nIn 1954, Gerschenkron published a celebrated article, \"A Dollar Index of Soviet Machinery Output, 1927–1928 to 1937\", in which he introduced what is now called the Gerschenkron effect (the difference between calculated Paasche and Laspeyres volume indexes). In this study, he constructed a series of dollar indexes of Soviet industrial output for the purpose of proving the deficiencies of the official Soviet index during that time (1927-1937). He showed that the high rate of growth of Soviet industrial production was an effect of index number bias: a Laspeyres index calculated on the basis of 1926–1927 weights significantly overstates real expansion. This \"Gerschenkron effect\" was a significant finding that deflated the announced superior Soviet growth.\n\nThe OECD website: gives a more detailed description of the Gerschenkron effect:\n\nIn 1951, Gerschenkron wrote an essay \"Economic Backwardness in Historical Perspective\", a cornerstone of his career, and of significance to European economic history. In it, he advanced the linear stages theory of economic development, which posits that development goes forward in largely determined stages.\n\nThe essay deals with \"economic backwardness\", and argued that the more backward an economy is at the outset of economic development, the more likely certain conditions are to occur. Gerschenkron stated that a country such as Russia, backward relative to Britain when it embarked on industrialization, did not go through the same stages. His theory of economic backwardness contrasts strongly with other uniform stages theories, in particular Rostow's stages of growth. It predicts that the more \"economically backward\" a country is, the more we will see:\n\n\nGerschenkron did not define economic backwardness but alluded to related factors: income per capita, amount of social overhead capital, literacy, savings rates and level of technology. He also referred to a northwest-to-southeast axis within Europe, with Britain as the least backward, followed by Belgium, the Netherlands, France, Germany, Austria, Italy, and—the most backward—Russia. In his essay, he mostly discusses Britain, Germany and Russia.\n\nDespite his roots in the Austrian school, he criticized the \"penny pinching, 'not-one-heller-more-policies'\" of the prominent Austrian economist Eugen von Böhm-Bawerk when the latter was Austrian Minister of Finance. He laid much of the blame for Austria's economic backwardness on Böhm-Bawerk's unwillingness to spend heavily on public works projects.\n\nIn 1943, Gerschenkron published a book titled \"Bread and Democracy in Germany\". In this study, he analyzes the problem of the relation between democracy and the protection of agricultural products, particularly of grain, in Germany. Gerschenkron understands that the establishment of democracy in Germany depends on numerous factors, and in his book he specifically deals with one aspect of the problem, the position of the Junkers and the agricultural policy in its relation to democracy.\n\nHe defines the economic history of the problem as this: In 1879, Germany introduced a new tariff and formulated a definite policy, which protected domestic grain production against overseas competition. This policy worked in favor of the big estate owners, the Junkers, who held important political positions in Prussia. It also worked in favor to a major part of the German peasantry. In 1926, eight years after the Germans were defeated at World War I, the Junkers started to plot against the forces of democracy. They introduced a new era of increased agricultural protection, which once again favored the peasants and Junkers.\n\nGerschenkron arrives at this conclusion, “that democratic reconstruction of Germany… in insurance of world peace calls for a radical elimination of the Junkers as a social and economic group.” He also recommends a radical land reform. To achieve the readjustment of agriculture and to place it on a competitive basis he suggests the introduction of a government trade monopoly of the bulk of agricultural products in Germany. With a monopoly in place, the government could set a price policy, which would force a number of farmers to discontinue grain production for the market and eventually carry out the needed adjustment of high cost agriculture to the international market conditions.\n\nGerschenkron also warns of the possible difficulties of creating a government monopoly. He believes the management of the monopoly would require “great practical skill and energy”. He believes the Germans should include this program of the agricultural adjustment plan in the peace treaties and entrust its execution and supervision to an international economic agency.\n\nGerschenkron had a profound influence on his students. At Harvard, he led the Economic History Workshop and taught courses on Soviet economics and economic history. In economic history he taught a year-long course required of all graduate economics students. His course required two major dissertation papers and a final exam. He also led evening seminars once a week in which his graduate students would discuss ideas for dissertations and evaluate quantitative techniques.\n\nMany of his students went on to have productive careers, and a good number of them have attained presidency of the Economic History Association. Ten of his students in the mid-1960s prepared a Festschrift in his honor. The book was titled \"Industrialization in Two Systems\" and was published in 1966.\n\nGerschenkron was known as an extremely bright scholar. As one of his former students Deirdre McCloskey put it, “Alexander Gerschenkron was not the best teacher or the best economist or the best historian among these — nor even, I think, the best human being. But he was the best scholar I have known.”\n\nGerschenkron studied many subjects, from history of economics, economics of the Soviet Union, statistics, Greek poetry, and a great deal in between. He also learned many languages. From his studies in Austria, he learned Latin, Greek, French and German. Later in life he would pick up languages with ease—Swedish one week, Bulgarian the next. As an example of his facility with languages, Deirdre McCloskey tells of Gerschenkron's harsh evaluation of a Russian translation: “He wrote a devastating review of a translation from Russian of a book in economics, attacking in detail the author’s apparently feeble command of the language. The translator had the termerity to approach Gerschenkron at a conference and say amiably, “I want you to know, Professor Gerschenkron, that I am not angry about your review.” Gerschnkron replied, “Angry? Why should you be angry? Ashamed, yes; angry, no.”\n\nIn addition to his vast knowledge of economic history, he also studied literature. He and his wife wrote an article together on translations of Shakespeare, which was published in a literary journal.\n\nThe Economic History Association created the Alexander Gershenkron Prize. It is awarded for the best dissertation in the economic history of an area outside of the United States or Canada. To be eligible for the Alexander Gerschenkron Prize, you must have received your Ph.D. within 2 years of when the award is given out.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15704208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15704208", "title": "Alexandru Mironov", "text": "Alexandru Mironov\n\nAlexandru Mironov (born 27 January 1942) is a Romanian science-fiction writer, journalist, and left-wing politician. A former member of the Social Democratic Party (PSD) and Counsel for President Ion Iliescu, Mironov was Minister for Youth and Sport in 1993-1996. Since 2008, he is a member of the minor Romanian Socialist Party (PSR). He is also known as a radio and television presenter and a documentary filmmaker.\n\nBorn in the Bessarabian locality of Vertujeni, now part of Moldova, Mironov was from a family which took refuge in southern Romania following the region's second occupation by the Soviet Union before the end of World War II. He attended the Nicolae Bălcescu High School in Craiova (known before and after as the \"Carol I High School\") and then he studied Mathematics at the University of Bucharest.\n\nHis debut was in 1971 in the number 387 of the \"Colecţia de Povestiri Ştiinţifico-Fantastice\" magazine, having published two sci-fi stories \"Performanţă ciudată\"(Strange performance) and \"Prea târziu\"(Too late). For the following decades, he published several dozens of stories, most of them featured in the \"Întâmplări din Veacul XXI\" (1974) and \"Alte întâmplări din Veacul XXI\" (1977) anthologies. Between 1969 and 1976, he traveled to various \"paleoastronautics\" sites studying the hypothesis that intelligent extraterrestrials have visited Earth in the past, this resulting in the book \"Enigmatic, pămîntul\", published in 1977.\n\nIn 1979, Mironov joined the state-owned Romanian Television and Romanian Radio, which were then under a single administration. He was employed there until 1991, and again between 1996 and 2001 (when he worked for the main television station, TVR 1). According to Mironov's own statement, the communist regime sidelined him and sent him to work for the Radio company after his explicit refusal to broadcast praises of President Nicolae Ceauşescu.\n\nHe directed and produced several documentary films, including the 1984 \"Din soare, gheaţă şi căldură\" (for which he received a prize granted by the Italian magazine \"Italia sul Mare\"), and the 1992 \"Universul cunoaşterii\" (awarded the Annual Prize of the Association of Romanian Television Professionals). In all, Mironov produced around 2,000 broadcasts for the national television and radio stations. His successive shows were also granted prizes from various cultural institutions.\n\nAlexandru Mironov played an active part in the anti-communist Romanian Revolution of 1989, when opened the first free Romanian Radio broadcast (22 December 1989). According to his own statements, he persuaded the Romanian Army soldiers not to storm into the main Radio building in Bucharest.\n\nFollowing the fall of communism and until his resignation in 2005, he was a member of the National Salvation Front and of its successor party, the PSD (which went through various names). He also worked as a Counsel for Romanian President Ion Iliescu, and claims to have played a part in ensuring his election victory during the 1992 suffrage. Between 28 August 1993 and 11 December 1996, he was the Minister for Youth and Sport in the Nicolae Văcăroiu cabinet. While in office, Mironov inaugurated a state program which allowed some 13,000 honored students to visit foreign countries. Starting December 2004, he was named the head of the Institute of the Romanian Revolution.\n\nMironov left the PSD at the same time as his colleague Petre Lificiu, and motivated it by saying that Romania needed a real left-wing party. Alleging that the \"almost all [PSD] leaders are millionaires in dollars\", Mironov stated that he still supported former PSD leader Iliescu, showing himself ready to join a potential new left-wing party founded by the latter.\n\nMironov joined the relatively new PSR, created and led by Valentin Adem. In February 2008, Adem declared to the press that Mironov had been proposed as the PSR's new president, its main candidate in the scheduled legislative election, as well as contender for the office of Mayor of Bucharest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24089985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24089985", "title": "American Freedom and Catholic Power", "text": "American Freedom and Catholic Power\n\nAmerican Freedom and Catholic Power is an anti-Catholic book by American writer Paul Blanshard, published in 1949 by Beacon Press. Blanshard asserted that America had a \"Catholic problem\" in that the Church was an \"undemocratic system of alien control\". The book has been described as bigoted and \"vicious\", propaganda and as \"the most unusual bestseller of 1949–1950\". It was based on a series of articles that he had published in the magazine \"The Nation\".\n\nBlanshard's autobiography indicates that his precipitating concern in 1946, which propelled him to commence research, was the influence of Catholic doctrine upon the practice of medicine generally, and obstetrics specifically. Some reviewers thought that the book incorporated nativist sentiments into its anti-Catholicism, including that the Church was a foreign power in America determined to dominate the world. In the prologue, Blanshard said that he was not opposed to the Catholic religion or to Catholic Americans, but that the church's hierarchy had an undue influence on legislation, education and medical practice.\n\nIn the late 1940s Blanshard published a series of articles that questioned and criticized specific activities and goals of the Catholic Church in the United States. New York school libraries were pressured to cancel subscriptions to \"The Nation\" by Cardinal Francis Spellman, an action denounced by Eleanor Roosevelt. The series of articles formed the basis for the book published by Beacon Press in their book series entitled Series in Freedom and Power.\n\nWhen the book was released, \"The New York Times\" refused to accept advertising for the book and many bookstores refused to carry it. However, the book sold 240,000 copies in its first edition. It was praised by John Dewey, Albert Einstein, Bertrand Russell, Henry Sloane Coffin, and Horace Kallen as well as scholarly reviewers. A work of rebuttal, \"Catholicism and American Freedom\" was written by James M. O'Neill and published in 1952. Blanshard's rejoinder to O'Neill and others was the pamphlet \"My Catholic Critics\". Blanshard published a second edition that updated the book. Blanshard was later a vocal admirer of John F. Kennedy.\n\nWilliam A. Donohue of the Catholic League for Religious and Civil Rights calls it a \"hate-filled\" book that raised the \"old canard of 'dual loyalties'\" and included such \"rubbish\" as Blanshard's \"Catholic Plan for America\", which purportedly entailed \"seizing the government, repealing the First Amendment, outlawing divorce, and making the pope the president's official superior\". Philip Jenkins, the Protestant author of \"\", notes that the book contains echoes of the views of the American Protective Association and the Ku Klux Klan and, although Blanshard's plan of \"resistance\" to Catholicism did not prescribe the violence of those earlier anti-Catholic predecessors, that in the shadow of World War II readers would read the word resistance to have such an implication.\n\nCatholic author Robert Lockwood states the work essentially makes a secularist argument, despite having its foundation in English anti-Catholicism of a Protestant variety.\n\nIn the Preface to the Revised Edition, Blanshard wrote:\n\n\"It is almost ten years since American Freedom and Catholic Power was published as a book, and somewhat more than a decade since major portions of this work appeared in magazine form. I express my appreciation to those American and foreign readers (several millions) who made possible the miraculous passage of this book through the vicissitudes of twenty-six printings in this country and abroad.\n– No book in recent years has drawn a heavier barrage from ecclesiastical batteries. The work is often called \"controversial\" – and I \"the dean of American controversy\". I do not care to repudiate the title, since I regard controversy in a good cause as entirely honorable. – It is my purpose here to bring all factual statements up to date, to cover the most dramatic and significant events in the battle of Catholic power during the past decade, and to add to the narrative more abundant documentation so that every controversial assertion may be supported by the latest items of evidence from Catholic sources.\n\nOn page 350 of the Second Edition, Blanshard included three issues that he said any Catholic candidate for the U.S. Presidency must address: \"the Catholic boycott of public schools, the drive of Catholic bishops for public funds, and the appointment of a Vatican ambassador.\"\n"}
{"id": "38203396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38203396", "title": "André Pakosie", "text": "André Pakosie\n\nAndré Pakosie (born 1955 in Diitabiki, Sipaliwini District) is a Ndyuka activist from a family of herbal doctors. He founded both Sabanapeti health center and the Sabanapeti Foundation. In the 1980s he had to leave Suriname because of the Suriname Guerrilla War and settled in the Netherlands. He has received honors from the Queen of the Netherlands and the President of Suriname. He was the founder of \"Maroon Day.\" In his teens he rejected Christianity as he felt it hostile to pre-Christian traditions. In addition to being a herbalist and activist he is also a poet and historian. He is noted for his writing concerning the Maroon peoples.\n"}
{"id": "6156184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6156184", "title": "Battlefield archaeology", "text": "Battlefield archaeology\n\nBattlefield archaeology is a sub-discipline of archaeology that began in North America with Dr. Douglas D. Scott's, National Park Service, metal detecting of Little Bighorn Battlefield National Monument in 1983. It is not considered distinct from Military archaeology or Recceology (i.e., the recovery of surface finds and non-invasive site surveying).\n\n\"Battlefield archaeology\" also refers to the specific study of a particular archaeological horizon in which a military action occurred. This may include both 'bounded' battlefields where troop dispositions, numbers and the order of battle are known from textual records, and also from undocumented evidence of conflict. The discipline is distinct from military history in that it seeks to answer different questions, including the experiences of ordinary soldiers in wider political frameworks. Therefore, \"battlefield archaeology\" is not concerned, primarily, with the causes of conflict but of the sites where conflict actually took place, and of the archaeology of the event.\n\nWhilst the \"battlefield\" is a contemporary concept, the archaeology of battlefields incorporates the study of both ancient and modern military technologies, features and conflicts. It may also incorporate events such as civil unrest, including public demonstrations and riots. The discipline, therefore, applies the approaches and techniques of archaeology to military and civil conflict. Conflicts in the twentieth century in particular have been characterised by wars of ethnicity, nationality and identity, where civilians and civilian environments (i.e., domestic buildings, urban centres) have become involved in warfare, and are often inseparable from it. This is also known as 'Total War', understood by the engagement of entire populations and economies within the sphere of warfare. The archaeology of contemporary conflict, therefore, is a 'total' project, considering the impact of conflict and modern weapons systems on civilian as well as military targets.\n\nThe study of the relationships and contexts of the material by-products of war give an alternate account to the version recorded in a history book, poem, or witness account, which may be constructed though bias, or may present only a limited perspective of the events.\n\nBattlefield archaeology was first used in England at the site of the battle of Naseby. Between 2006 and 2008 the Council for British Archaeology conducted a resource assessment for English Heritage, creating a database of more than 200 battlefields in England. According to the report, \"battlefields [in England] older than 1066 are at present almost impossible to locate\". By 2012 there was no comparable database for Europe, though 56 battlefields had been ascertained for Scotland. The Register of Historic Battlefields, now maintained by Historic England, was founded in 1995.\n\nThe First World War exhibited a conflict that mobilised large numbers of soldiers and a sophisticated and diverse array of material culture. Battlefield Archaeology in this arena has dealt with the battlefields of conflict, where human action and technology shaped the landscape into recognisable and extensive features. It also concerns the study of material culture associated with individuals: including 'trench art', such as engraved shells and the personal belongings of private soldiers, officers and civilian staff.\n\nExcavations and survey work have also been conducted in southern Jordan, known for the conflict during World War One between Ottoman forces, Bedouin tribes-people and British forces commanded by T.E. Lawrence (the 'Great Arab Revolt'). The project looked for the militarised footprint of the conflict, basing its conclusions on trench systems, army camps and the refuse of forces (small-finds including coins, bullets and other military gear).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3231525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3231525", "title": "Brinsley Le Poer Trench, 8th Earl of Clancarty", "text": "Brinsley Le Poer Trench, 8th Earl of Clancarty\n\nWilliam Francis Brinsley Le Poer Trench, 8th Earl of Clancarty, 7th Marquess of Heusden (18 September 191118 May 1995) was a prominent ufologist. He was an Irish peer, as well as a nobleman in the Dutch nobility.\n\nHe was the fifth son of William Frederick Le Poer Trench, 5th Earl of Clancarty by Mary Gwatkin Ellis. He had four older half-brothers born to the 5th Earl's first wife, Isabel Maud Penrice Bilton, the actress known as Belle Bilton, who died of cancer in 1906. Brinsley was educated at the Pangbourne Nautical College.\n\nFrom 1956 to 1959 Clancarty edited the \"Flying Saucer Review\" and founded the \"International Unidentified Object Observer Corps\". He also found employment selling advertising space for a gardening magazine housed opposite Waterloo station.\n\nIn 1967, he founded \"Contact International\" and served as its first president. He also served as vice-president of the British UFO Research Association (BUFORA). Clancarty was an honorary life member of the now defunct \"Ancient Astronauts Society\" which supported the ideas put forward by Erich von Däniken in his 1968 book \"Chariots of the Gods?\".\n\nIn 1975 he succeeded to the earldom on the death of his half-brother, Grenville Sydney Rocheforte, 7th Earl of Clancarty, giving him a seat in the British Parliament. He used his new position to found a UFO Study Group at the House of Lords, introducing \"Flying Saucer Review\" to its library and pushing for the declassification of UFO data.\n\nFour years later he organised a celebrated debate in the House of Lords on UFOs which attracted many speeches on both sides of the question. In one debate, Lord Strabolgi, for the Government, declared that there was nothing to convince him that any alien spacecraft had ever visited the Earth.\n\nClancarty married first, in 1940, Diana (1919–1999), daughter of Sir William Younger, Bt. This marriage was dissolved in 1947. He married secondly, in 1961, Mrs Wilma Belknap (née Vermilyea) (1915–1995) and that marriage was dissolved in 1969. His third marriage was in 1974, to Mrs Mildred Allewyn Spong (née Bensusan) (1895–1975). She died in 1975 but Clancarty remarried a fourth time, in 1976, to Mrs May Beasley (née Radonicich) (1904–2003).\n\nHe lived most of his life in South Kensington and died in Bexhill-on-Sea in 1995, leaving his extensive collection of papers to \"Contact International\".\n\nHe was succeeded to the earldom by his nephew Nicholas Le Poer Trench (b. 1952).\n\nIn 1974, Trench published \"Secret of the Ages: UFOs from Inside the Earth\", a book which theorised that the centre of the Earth was hollow, with entrances to its interior located at both the north and south polar areas. The interior, he suggested, consisted of large tunnel systems connecting a large cavern world. Trench also believed that the lost continent of Atlantis actually once existed and that these tunnels were probably constructed all over the world by the Atlanteans, for various purposes.\n\nTrench believed that there was no actual North Pole, but instead a large area with a warm sea dipping gradually into the interior of the Earth. He said that humans were 'living on the deck of a ship, unaware of the life going on under our feet'. One argument he put forward for this theory was that whilst the Earth is spherical, it is flattened at the poles. Additionally, he questioned how all icebergs could be composed of frozen fresh water, if no rivers were flowing from the inside of the Earth to the outside. He had also suggested that a large proportion of unidentified flying objects (UFOs) emanated from the Earth's interior. These objects were likely to have been created by a group of much more technically advanced beings, similar to humans, but a group that likely possessed extrasensory abilities, as well as the ability to manipulate psychic phenomena. Another argument for the Hollow Earth theory was that everything, he suggested, including nebulae, comets and planets, is hollow and these conditions would certainly prove favourable for a hollow Earth.\n\nWhilst Trench had in one of his earlier books disregarded the Hollow Earth theory, he admitted to at the time 'being educated along with millions of other people to believe that the Earth had a liquid molten core'.\n\nAccording to Trench in his book \"The Sky People\", Adam and Eve, Noah any many of the other characters from the Bible originally lived on Mars. Trench believed that Adam and Eve were experiment creations of extraterrestrials. His claim was that the Biblical description of the Garden of Eden was inconsistent with what was on Earth and as Mars contained canals, that the Garden of Eden must have been located on Mars. He further claimed that the north polar ice cap melted on Mars, and this caused the descendants of Adam and Eve to move to Earth.\n\nTrench also claimed to know a former U.S. test pilot who said he was one of six persons present at a meeting between President Eisenhower and a group of aliens, which allegedly took place at Edwards Air Force Base on 4 April 1954. Clancarty reported that the test pilot told him \"Five different alien craft landed at the base. Three were saucer-shaped and two were cigar shaped... the aliens looked something like humans, but not exactly.\" \n\nHe claimed that he could trace his descent from 63,000, when beings from other planets had landed on Earth in spaceships.\n\n"}
{"id": "2646130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2646130", "title": "Center for Hellenic Studies", "text": "Center for Hellenic Studies\n\nThe Center for Hellenic Studies (CHS) is a research institute for classics located in Washington, D.C. at 3100 NW Whitehaven Street. It is affiliated with Harvard University.\n\nNestled in Rock Creek Park behind Embassy Row, the Center for Hellenic Studies offers a variety of both residential and remote fellowships each year to scholars and researchers working on projects in a variety of fields, including \"archaeology, art history, epigraphy, history, literary criticism, philology, philosophy, pedagogical applications, reception, and interdisciplinary studies\". The Center provides housing for \"residential\" fellows and their families, and accommodates remote fellows and visiting scholars during shorter stays. Fellows are selected by a panel of Senior Fellows, a group of five internationally selected senior classicists. Fellows are typically pre-tenured PhDs from around the world, most often from Europe or North America. The \"Center\", as it is commonly called, has been a stopping point in the careers of many budding classicists who have gone on to be major contributors in the field.\n\nThe Director of the Center is appointed by Harvard University. Michael C.J. Putnam (Brown University, 1962) was the first director, but acted as a substitute for Bernard Knox (Yale University, 1963–1985), the Center's first official Director. Knox was succeeded by Zeph Stewart (Harvard University, 1985–1992), and Stewart by Co-Directors, Kurt Raaflaub and Deborah Boedeker (Brown University, 1992–2000). The current Director of the Center is Gregory Nagy (Harvard University, 2000–present).\n\nThe main building of the Center houses one of the world's premier research libraries for the study of the classical world. The library is primarily used by residential and visiting fellows, as well as visiting scholars, but it is also open to the public. It includes a rare book room with editions from as early as the 1600s. The main building also houses offices for the fellows, staff, and administration.\n\nThe wooded campus has a large mansion as the director's residence, a \"stoa\" with five apartments for the fellows without families, three cottages for the fellows with families, two subdivided cottages serving as double residences, five guest-rooms to accommodate visiting scholars, and one cottage that has been transformed into a multi-media conference facility. There is easy access from the Center to Rock Creek Park.\n\nThe Center was established in 1961 through an endowment, \"exclusively for the establishment of an educational center in the field of Hellenic Studies designed to rediscover the humanism of the Hellenic Greeks,\" made by the Old Dominion Foundation, (the predecessor to the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation). The governing body was the \"Trustees of Harvard University\" (one of Harvard University's two governing boards, now known as the President and Fellows of Harvard College or Harvard Corporation). The Center was completed in 1963 by the architect H. Page Cross on land donated by Marie Beale in memory of her son, Walker Blaine Beale (Harvard College class of 1918) who died in World War I. In 1996, the Italian Embassy bought about half of the land from the Center and built a new facility there. In the mid-1990s, under the directorship of Raaflaub and Boedecker, the Center was greatly expanded (from 8 Junior Fellows to 12, and with a significant renovation of the library).\n\nStarting in 2000, the current Director, Gregory Nagy, has brought a new focus on outreach (both national and international), information technology, publishing, and collaborative research to the Center for Hellenic Studies, as evidenced by the Center's dynamic website. In 2003, under Nagy's direction, the Center began renovations to transform one of the cottages into a new multi-media conference center. The design plans were drawn up by the architectural firm, Convergeo, and in 2006, the \"Digital Agora\" was unveiled.\n\nIn 2008, the Center for Hellenic Studies opened a campus in Nafplio, Greece. The Center for Hellenic Studies in Greece is a Harvard international Center that unites the humanistic pursuits of the CHS in Washington D.C. with the homeland of Hellenism. Dr. Ioannis Petropoulos of the Democritus University of Thrace is the first, and current Director of the Center for Hellenic Studies in Greece (CHS GR). CHS GR began as an office of the CHS DC, and has evolved into a Harvard base of operations and twin institution to its counterpart in Washington, D.C. It organizes, hosts and supports the summer programs of Harvard and other institutions, including opportunities for research, study and internship abroad.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8500", "title": "Dar es Salaam", "text": "Dar es Salaam\n\nDar es Salaam (Dar) (from ', \"the house of peace\"; formerly Mzizima) is the former capital as well as the most populous city in Tanzania and a regionally important economic centre. Located on the Swahili coast, the city is one of the fastest growing cities in the world.\n\nUntil 1974, Dar es Salaam served as Tanzania’s capital city, at which point the capital city commenced transferring to Dodoma, which was officially completed in 1996. However, as of 2018, it continues to remain a focus of central government bureaucracy, although this is in the process of fully moving to Dodoma. In addition, it is Tanzania's most prominent city in arts, fashion, media, music, film and television and a leading financial centre. The city is the leading arrival and departure point for most tourists who visit Tanzania, including the national parks for safaris and the islands of Unguja and Pemba. Dar es Salaam is also the largest and most populous Swahili-speaking city in the world.\n\nIt is the capital of the co-extensive Dar es Salaam Region, which is one of Tanzania's 31 administrative regions and consists of five districts: Kinondoni in the north, Ilala in the centre, Ubungo, Temeke in the south and Kigamboni in the east across the Kurasini creek. The region had a population of 4,364,541 as of the official 2012 census.\n\nIn the 19th century, Mzizima (Swahili for \"healthy town\") was a coastal fishing village on the periphery of Indian Ocean trade routes. In 1865 or 1866, Sultan Majid bin Said of Zanzibar began building a new city very close to Mzizima and named it Dar es Salaam. The name is commonly translated as \"abode/home of peace\", based on the Arabic \"dar\" (\"house\"), and the Arabic \"es salaam\" (\"of peace\"). Dar es Salaam fell into decline after Majid's death in 1870, but was revived in 1887 when the German East Africa Company established a station there. The town's growth was facilitated by its role as the administrative and commercial centre of German East Africa and industrial expansion resulting from the construction of the Central Railway Line in the early 1900s.\n\nGerman East Africa was captured by the British during World War I and became Tanganyika, with Dar es Salaam remaining the administrative and commercial centre. Under British indirect rule, separate European (e.g., Oyster Bay) and African (e.g., Kariakoo and Ilala) areas developed at a distance from the city centre. The city's population also included a large number of workers from British India, many of whom came to dominate trade and commerce. After World War II, Dar es Salaam experienced a period of rapid growth.\n\nPolitical developments, including the formation and growth of the Tanganyika African National Union, led to Tanganyika attaining independence from colonial rule in December 1961. Dar es Salaam continued to serve as its capital, even when in 1964 Tanganyika and Zanzibar merged to form Tanzania. In 1973, however, provisions were made to relocate the capital to Dodoma, a more centrally located city in the interior. The relocation process has not yet been completed, and Dar es Salaam remains Tanzania's primary city.\n\nIn 1967, the Tanzanian government declared the \"Ujamaa policy\", that set Tanzania into a socialist path. The move slowed down the potential growth of the city as the government encouraged people not to move in cities but stay in Ujamaa socialist villages. But by the 1980s the Ujamaa policy proved to be a failure into combating increasing poverty, hunger, and delayed development that Tanzania faced. This led to the 1980s liberalization policy that virtually ended socialism and its spirit within the Tanzania's government.\n\nUntil the late 1990s, Dar es Salaam was not put into the same category as Africa's leading cities like Nairobi, Johannesburg, Lagos, or Addis Ababa. But the 2000s decade became the turning point as the city experienced one of Africa's fastest urbanization rates as businesses were opened and prospered, growth in the construction sector with multi-storey building, bridges and roads, Tanzanian banks headquartered in the city started to run more proper, the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange expanded, and the Dar es Salaam harbour proved to be the most important in Tanzania and prominent for entrepot trade with landlocked countries like eastern Democratic Republic of Congo, Rwanda, Burundi, and Zambia. The CBD skyline hosts tall buildings, among them the 35-floor PSPF Tower, finished in 2015, and \"the Tanzania\" \"Port\"s \"Authority\" \"(TPA) Tower\", currently under construction .\n\nDar es Salaam is located at 6°48' South, 39°17' East (−6.8000, 39.2833), on a natural harbour on the eastern coast of East Africa, with sandy beaches in some areas.\n\nThe region of Dar es Salaam is divided into five districts.\n\nDar es Salaam Region is divided into five administrative districts. All five are governed as municipal councils, and so all of the city's suburbs or wards are affiliated with them. The regional commissioner is Paul Makonda.\n\nKinondoni is the most populated amongst the districts, with half of the city's population residing within it. It is also home to high-income suburbs. These include:\n\nIlala is the administrative district of Dar es Salaam where almost all government offices and ministries are housed. The Central Business District (locally called \"Posta\") is located in this district. It is the transportation hub of the city, as the Julius Nyerere International Airport, Central Railway Station and Tazara Railway Station are all within the district boundaries. The residential areas are mainly middle to high-income, and some of these are:\n\nTemeke is the industrial district of the city, where the manufacturing centers (heavy and light industry) are located. The Port of Dar es Salaam, which is the largest in the country, is found east of Temeke.\n\nTemeke is believed to have the largest concentration of low-income residents due to industry. Port officials, military and police officers live there.\n\nThe Ubungo terminal serves as a transportation link to most large Dar es Salaam urban nodes. The narrow-gauge commuter rail runs from there to the city centre, with ten level crossings along the route.\n\n\nDue to close proximity to the equator and the warm Indian Ocean, the city experiences tropical climatic conditions, typified by hot and humid weather throughout much of the year. It has a tropical wet and dry climate (Köppen: Aw). Annual rainfall is approximately , and in a normal year there are two rainy seasons: \"the long rains\" in April and May and \"the short rains\" in November and December.\n\n\"In 1949 the town became a municipality...[with] four honourable nominated Town Councillors who elected a Mayor.\" \"Until June 1996, Dar es Salaam was managed by the Dar es Salaam City Council...the highest policy-making body in the city.\" As of 2017 Paul Makonda serves as the commissioner of Dar es Salaam Region.\n\nAs any growing city Dar es Salaam is the city in Tanzania to which villagers flock for better opportunities. Westerners and Asians are also settling in Dar es Salaam, and the movement of foreigners has put a good work load on the relevant government body for developing better policies to accommodate the growing and the diverse population of the Dar es salaam together with its suburbs.\n\nDar es Salaam is the most populous city in Tanzania. With a population increase of 5.6 percent per year from 2002 to 2012, it is the third-fastest-growing city in Africa, after Bamako and Lagos, and the ninth-fastest-growing in the world. The metro population is expected to reach 5.12 million by 2020 and predicted to be as high as 76 million by the year 2100, making it the third largest city on earth (after Lagos and Kinshasa), by 2100.\n\nAccording to the 2012 national census, the region had a population of 4,364,541, which was much higher than the pre-census projection of 3,270,255. For 2002–2012, the region's 5.6 percent average annual population growth rate was the highest in the country. It was also the most densely populated region with 3,133 people per square kilometer.\n\nThe sprawling suburbs furthest from the city centre are generally populated by Tanzanians of African descent, with the exception of Oyster Bay, where there is a large population of foreign expatriates. The edges of Dar es Salaam are spreading rapidly, severely taxing the transportation network (which aside from ferries, lacks any kind of mass transit facilities) and raising the prospect of future urban overcrowding.\n\nDar es Salaam is Tanzania's most important city for both business and government. The city contains high concentrations of trade and other services and manufacturing compared to other parts of Tanzania, which has about 80 percent of its population in rural areas. Downtown includes small businesses, many of which are run by traders and proprietors whose families originated from the Middle East and the Indian sub-continent—areas of the world with which the settlements of the Tanzanian coast have had long-standing trading relations.\n\nThe Dar es Salaam Central Business District is made up of Kisutu, Kivukoni, Upanga and Kariakoo areas is Tanzania's largest city CBD. All three areas making up the downtown are found in the Ilala district. Kivukoni has the city's important fish market, the Magogoni fish market. Kivukoni also is the place where the Tanzania's central bank, The Bank of Tanzania is located, so is the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange. Kisutu has businesses and offices and is the location of Dar es Salaam central railway station, the PSPF Towers and the TPA tower.\nDar es Salaam has a problem with slums. According to a United Nations estimate, 70 percent of the city's population lives in informal settlements. The poorer residents crowd into downtown areas or large slums, many without running water or basic services. The more wealthy live in beachside mansions in the city's northern districts.\n\nDar es Salaam has had a major construction boom. The PSPF Twin Towers with more than 35 stories is the tallest building in the city and the country. Dar es Salaam has major infrastructural challenges, including an outdated transport system and occasional power rationing.\n\nThe Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE) being the country's first and most important stock exchange market.[4]\n\nDar es Salaam hosts the Mlimani City shopping Mall.\n\nDar es Salaam on a natural harbour on the Indian Ocean, is one of the hub of the Tanzanian transportation system as the main railways and several highways originate in or near the city to serve convenient means of transportation for commuters.\n\nThe most common form of transport in Dar es Salaam are the public buses, called \"dala dala\", which are often found at the major bus terminals of Makumbusho and Ubungo. Since the introduction of motorcycle transit business known as \"Bodaboda\", most of the people prefer this type of transportation which allows them to get into the city faster compared to the minibuses which face a lot of traffic. Other types of transport include motorcycles and Bajaj.\n\nThe government has been introducing a bus rapid transport or metro bus system under the Dar es Salaam bus rapid transit meaning 'mwendo kasi' in Kiswahili. The metro buses are managed by UDA (Usafiri Dar es Salaam).\n\nThe bus rapid transit system Phase 1 is completed and already in operation by the Dar es Salaam Rapid Transit Agency, a government-private sector entity, and began operation on 10 May 2016. It is branded as UDA-RT (Usafiri Dar es Salaam Rapid Transit). The first section runs between Kimara in the northwest to Kivukoni on the northern headland of the harbour. Phase 1 was funded by the World Bank, African Development Bank and the Tanzanian government.\n\nThe city has the country's busiest port: The port is located on the west of the Indian Ocean, Kurasini creek south east of Dar es Salaam's central business District. The Port of Dar es Salaam handles 90% of the country's cargo. \n\nDue to huge influx of cargo and the slow pace of expansion a new cargo port northwest of Dar es Salaam is proposed at Bagamoyo.\n\nMV Kigamboni ferries are running between south east of Kivukoni and north west of Kigamboni in Dar es Salaam.\n\nTravel to Urban and sub urban parts of Dar es Salaam is provided by the Dar es Salaam commuter rail.\n\nTanzania Railways operates the Central Line from Dar es Salaam to Kigoma\n\nThe city also hosts the head office of Tanzania Zambia Railways Authority (TAZARA) built in the late 1960s to early 1970s. The main terminal is located west of Dar es Salaam's central business district in north Yombo Vituka along Nelson Mandela road. The TAZARA Railway connects Dar es Salaam to Zambia.\n\nThe Julius Nyerere International Airport is the principal airport serving the country with two operating terminals and one under construction; Terminal Three at Kipawa in Ilala Municipality. The airport is located west of Dar es Salaam's central business district.\n\nDar es Salaam (and specifically the area of Oyster Bay) is home to the brightly coloured and tourist-oriented Tingatinga painting style. The Tingatinga Arts Cooperative Society is a cultural centre, workshop and shop dedicated to Tanzanian art, showcasing and promoting Tanzanian craftmanship. Prominent Tanzanian sculptor George Lilanga has donated some of his works to the centre, including decorations of the building's main entrance.\n\nThe music scene in Dar es Salaam is divided between several styles. The longest standing style is live dance music (muziki wa dansi) bands such as DDC Mlimani Park Orchestra and Malaika Musical Band as examples. Taarab which was traditionally strong in Zanzibar has also found a niche. However, it remains small compared both to dance music and \"Bongo Flava\", a broad category that represents the Tanzanian take on Hip Hop and R&B, which has quickly become the most popular locally produced music. Traditional music, which locally is used to refer to tribal music is still performed but typically only on family oriented occasions such as weddings. Recently there has been development of another music niche, a taste that is rising and to be prominent as BongoFlava known as Singeli with star singers such as Msaga Sumu and Man Fongo.\n\nThis rap scene is also present.\n\nIn the 1970s, the Ministry of National Youth Culture aimed to create a national culture, which stressed the importance of music. Dar es Salaam became the music center in Tanzania, with the local radio showcasing new bands and dominating the music and cultural scene. With this ujamaa, or family, mentality governing culture and music a unified people’s culture was created, leading to the rise of hip hop music. Throughout the years, the radio in Dar es Salaam has played a major role in the dissemination of music because many people don’t have television and cassettes are used over CDs.\n\nDue in part to the growth of the expatriate community and the increasing importance of tourism, the number of restaurants serving international cuisines has risen rapidly. The city offers a diversity of cuisine, ranging from traditional Tanzanian Barbecue-style options, such as \"Nyama Choma\" (Roasted meat—served with rice or ugali) and \"Mishkaki\" (Shish kebab—usually barbecued and served with salt, hot chili peppers, chapati, fries, and rice on the side), as well as the long-established traditional Indian and Zanzibari cuisine, to options from all corners of the globe, including Arab, Chinese, Thai, Turkish, Italian, and Japanese food. People who are looking for a light meal or a snack and prefer neither fast food nor a meal from the traditional restaurants buy their food from street vendors, who usually sell good food and snacks at low prices. Samosas (\"sambusas\") with coconut chutney are the most common snack street food items within the city, as the area is largely influenced by the fresh food products and spices imported from India.\n\nDar es Salaam has two of the five museums comprising the National Museum of Tanzania consortium, namely the National Museum proper and the Makumbusho Cultural Centre & Village Museum. The National Museum is dedicated to the history of Tanzania; most notably, it exhibits some of the bones of \"Paranthropus boisei\" that were among the findings of Louis Leakey at Olduvai. The Makumbusho Cultural Centre & Village Museum, located in the outskirts of the city on the road to Bagamoyo, showcases traditional huts from 16 different Tanzanian ethnic groups. There are also examples of traditional cultivations, and traditional music and dance shows are held daily. In 2016, there was a breakthrough discovery in Northern Tanzania by a scientist, from the University of Dar es Salaam, of footprints thought to be of a hominid that predates Homo sapiens.\n\nClose to the National Museum are also the botanical gardens, with tropical plants and trees.\n\nThere are beaches on the Msasani peninsula north of Dar es Salaam and in Kigamboni to the south. Trips to the nearby islands of the Dar es Salaam Marine Reserve are a popular daytrip from the city and a spot for snorkeling, swimming and sunbathing. Bongoyo Island can be reached by boat from the Msasani Slipway.\n\nDar es Salaam is the sports center of Tanzania. Dar es Salaam hosts the second largest stadium in East and Central Africa (National Stadium), which can accommodate up to 60,000 people.\n\nThe National Stadium hosts Dar es Salaam's Young Africans Sports Club, Simba Sports Club, Azam F.C. and other Tanzanian football clubs, and international matches. There is a proposal to build a new stadium in Dodoma, much bigger in capacity than the present one in Dar es Salaam by the government as a donation from the Moroccan Kingdom.\n\nApart from the National Stadium, Dar es Salaam is home to the Uhuru Stadium (used mainly for local tournaments and political gatherings), Karume Memorial Stadium (the home of the Tanzania Football Federation). The stadium is situated west of Kurasini.\n\nThe Gymkhana Golf Courses located north west of the Kivukoni area (between the city centre looking on to the shores of the Indian Ocean in the east and Barack Obama Drive), also has tennis courts, squash courts, and a fitness club. Outside of the metropolitan districts, there is the Lugalo Military Golf Course (located in the Lugalo Military Barracks).\nDar es Salaam's Mama Africa school, founded in 2003, is known for training some of Africa's finest acrobats.\nDar es Salaam's Union Sports Club hosts a single indoor squash court with a referees viewing gallery within the club grounds. The club has a yearly Squash tournament once a year during the muslim month of ramadhan.\nDar es Salaam's Union Sports Club hosts a single room Darts room.The club has a yearly Darts tournament once a year during the muslim month of ramadhan.\nDar es Salaam's Union Sports Club hosts a single room Table Tennis. The club has a yearly Table Tennis tournament once a year during the muslim month of ramadhan.\nDar es Salaam's Union Sports Club hosts an under the sky outdoor scrabble tournaments within the club grounds once a year during the muslim month of ramadhan.\nDar es Salaam hosts numerous outdoor swimming clubs and also swimming opportunities offered to people for leisure on the sandy beaches of the Indian Ocean being a coastal city.\n\nNewspapers in Dar es Salaam are often sold by people prowling through stationary traffic at road intersections. English-language ones, with online presences, include \"The Citizen\" and \"The Guardian\" and the Kiswahili dailies, \"Tanzania Daima\" and \"Mwananchi\". \"Business Times\" is the only financial and economic newspaper in the city. It was established in 1988 and became the first private newspaper in Tanzania. \"Business Times\" owns \"Majira\", another Kiswahili newspaper.\n\nDar es Salaam is home to ITV, Channel Ten Television Station formerly known as Dar es Salaam Television (DTV) and Azam TV, a subscription-based service from the Azam group of companies.\n\nAyo TV, a television station, is also based in Ubungo, Dar es Salaam, as is the Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation.\n\nInstallation of a trans-Indian Ocean backbone cable in 2009 has, in theory, made Internet access much more readily available in Dar in particular and in East Africa in general. However, roll-out to end-users is slow, partly because of spotty telephone line coverage at the moment provided by the Tanzania Telecommunications Company Limited, partly due to the substantial prices and long contracts demanded for purchase of bandwidth for small ISPs. Mobile-telephone access to the Internet via 3G and 3.75G is still relatively expensive. 4G is making its way through major cities and towns with plans to go countrywide in the advanced planning stages.\n\nInternet cafés are found in the city centre and free wifi hotspots in various government and non government institutions as well as public transport.\n\nThe expressed aim of the SEACOM cable is to enable East Africa to develop economically through increased online trading.\n\nDar es Salaam is the educational centre of Tanzania. The city is home to several institutions of higher learning. Below are 8 as follows:\n\n\nBelow is a list of nineteen notable people who lived in Dar es Salaam:\n\n\nDar es Salaam is twinned with:\n\nhttps://www.tingatingaart.com\n"}
{"id": "6179229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6179229", "title": "David T. Beito", "text": "David T. Beito\n\nDavid T. Beito (born 1956) is a historian and professor of history at the University of Alabama. He is the author of \"Taxpayers in Revolt: Tax Resistance during the Great Depression\" (1989); \"From Mutual Aid to the Welfare State: Fraternal Societies and Social Services, 1890–1967\" (2000); \"The Voluntary City: Choice, Community, and Civil Society\" (2002); and \"T.R.M. Howard: Doctor, Entrepreneur, Civil Rights Pioneer\" (2018) which was co-authored by Professor Linda Royster Beito of Stillman College). It is a biography of civil rights leader, surgeon, entrepreneur and self-help advocate, T. R. M. Howard, who was a mentor to Medgar Evers and Fannie Lou Hamer, and was reviewed by \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"Harper's Magazine\", and other publications.\n\nBeito is the founder and one of the key contributors to the group weblog Liberty and Power, which is located at the History News Network. He manages the Facebook group for classical liberal and libertarian historians, Cliolibertarian.\n\nBeito was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota. He received a B.A. in history from the University of Minnesota in 1980 and a Ph.D in history from the University of Wisconsin–Madison in 1986. Since 1994, he has taught at the University of Alabama, where he is a professor in history. He married Linda Royster Beito on June 11, 1997 and they live in Northport, Alabama.\n\nBeito’s research covers a wide range of topics in American history including race, tax revolts, the private provision of infrastructure, mutual aid, and the political philosophies of Zora Neale Hurston, Rose Wilder Lane, and Isabel Paterson.\n\nBeito has published in the \"Journal of Interdisciplinary History, Journal of Policy History, Journal of Southern History\", and \"Journal of Urban History\" among other scholarly journals. He has received fellowships from the Earhart Foundation, the Olin Foundation, and the Institute for Humane Studies.\n\nHe writes frequently on current controversies related to academic freedom and academic standards including the speech code issue, the Academic Bill of Rights, grade inflation. He is a former president of the Alabama Scholars Association. In February 2007, Beito was appointed to chair the Alabama State Advisory Committee of the United States Commission on Civil Rights. In April, 2008, the Committee had an open meeting at the 16th Street Baptist Church in Birmingham which focused on eminent domain as a possible civil rights issue. It followed this up with another open meeting in April 2009 in Montgomery. Witnesses alleged that the city of Montgomery has arbitrarily used \"eminent domain through the back door\" (via selective use of nuisance and blight laws) to demolish buildings owned by minorities and the poor. These allegations generated stories by ABC News, Fox News, and other outlets.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "637189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=637189", "title": "Enrico Caterino Davila", "text": "Enrico Caterino Davila\n\nEnrico Caterino Davila (October 30, 1576 – May 26, 1631) was an Italian historian and diplomat.\n\nBorn in Piove di Sacco, near Padua, he descended from a Spanish noble family. His name was given in honour of Henry III of France and Catherine de' Medici.\n\nHis immediate ancestors had been constables of the kingdom of Cyprus for the Venetian republic since 1464. In 1570 the island was taken by the Turks; and Antonio Davila, the father of the historian, had to leave for Padua, despoiled of all his possessions. In 1583 Antonio took this son to France, where he became a page in the service of Catherine de' Medici, wife of King Henry II.\n\nIn due time he entered the military service, and fought through the French civil wars until the peace in 1598. In 1599, he returned to Padua where he stayed until 1606. Subsequently he traveled to Parma, Rome and Rovigo and finally settled to Tinos (1609–1615) where he held the post of governor. At Tinos he met and married his wife Ursula delli Ascuffi. \n\nLater in his life Enrico was assigned as a governor of the Venetian possessions of Cattaro (1618–1621) and Zara (1623–1628). Also in 1621 he participated in a Venetian diplomatic mission to Florence, under the leadership of Alvise Valaresso.\n\nEnrico Davila was murdered, while on his way to take possession of the government of Cremona for Venice in May 1631, by a ruffian, with whom a dispute arose about relays of horses ordered for his use by the Venetian government.\n\nHe planned a history of the civil wars in France in which he had taken a part, and during which he had see the leading personages and events. This work was completed about 1630, and was offered by the author to the publishers in Venice. At last Tommaso Baglioni, who had no work for his presses, undertook to print the manuscript, on condition that he should be free to leave off if more promising work offered itself. The printing of the \"Istoria delle guerre civili di Francia\" was, however, completed, and the success of the work was immediate. Over two hundred editions followed, of which perhaps the best is the one published in Paris in 1644. An English translation was made for Charles I of England by William Aylesbury and Charles Cotterell, published as \"The Historie of the Civil Warres of France\" (1647).\n\nAmerican statesman and political thinker John Adams wrote his last work of political theory, the \"Discourses on Davila\", as an extended commentary on Davila's history of the French civil wars, following the example of Machiavelli's \"Discorsi\" on Livy's history of Rome.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37812657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37812657", "title": "Francesco Bocchi", "text": "Francesco Bocchi\n\nFrancesco Bocchi (1548 - March 31, 1613 or 1618) was an Italian writer of the late Renaissance, active in Florence.\n\nBocchi was born and died in Florence. He was the son of Lisabetta Papi and Bartolomeo Bocchi, a moderately well-off couple. Francesco's father died when he was eleven years old, and he was left to be educated in literature and rhetoric by his uncle Donato Bocchi, vicar general of the Bishop of Fiesole. He moves in 1572 to Rome for some years. He returns to Florence, where he finds employment as a tutor for aristocratic children, for example Ulisse Bentivoglio, and the children of Benedetto Vivaldi and Piero Antonio Strozzi. He also found employment in the composition of speeches (such as funeral orations) and treatises targeted to for prominent patrons. Among his patrons was Lorenzo Salviati and his family, Filippo Valori, Piero Vettori, and other members of the Curia in the circle of cardinal and later Grand-Duke, Ferdinando de' Medici.\n\nAs a writer, he often elaborated works with courtly erudition, more style than reasoned content, although deep in facts. Among his works was a guide to artwork in Florence:\"La belleza della citta' di Firenze\", original 1594. It was the first of its type for an Italian city, and can be compared to Filippo Titi's 1674 version for Rome.\n\nHe also wrote a History of the Flemish Rebellions for Giovan Vincenzo Vitelli who wished the celebrate the role of father Chiappino Vitelli, who had fought there as a mercenary. He also wrote a guide to the works of art and architecture in the city of Florence. He was buried in the church of San Pier Maggiore, which was since razed.\n\n"}
{"id": "50158482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50158482", "title": "Garnddyrys Forge", "text": "Garnddyrys Forge\n\nGarnddyrys Forge was an iron foundry in Wales that operated from about 1817–60 near Blaenavon in Wales, lying on a tramroad between Blaenavon and the Brecknock and Abergavenny Canal. At one time 450 people lived around the ironworks. It became isolated when the railway took a different route to Blaenavon, and was abandoned. Although little now is visible, it is archaeologically well-preserved.\n\nIn response to a surge in demand for iron during the Napoleonic Wars the manager of the Blaenavon Ironworks, Thomas Hill II, built what became called Hill's Tramroad from Pwll Du to the Llanfoist wharf around 1815.\nThis linked Blaenavon via Pwll Du and Garnddyrys to the Brecknock and Abergavenny Canal.\nThe tramroad passed through the Garnddyrys site in a tunnel.\nIt connected Blaenavon to limestone quarries at Pwll-Du and Tyla.\nIt then ran for north east from Pwll Du round the Blorenge hill to Llanfoist Wharf.\n\nThe Garnddyrys Forge was built by Thomas Hill II in 1816–17.\nThe market for iron was very weak at the time, so the investment was unusual.\nThe plans to build the forge in Cwm Llanwenarth on the west branch of the Blorenge included replacing a steeply sloped section of the tramroad from Blaenavon by a shallow gradient tramroad along the Pwll Du Tunnel, an extension of an earlier mine tunnel through the hill to Pwll Du.\nThe tramroad brought cast iron from Blaenavon and took wrought iron from the forge to the Llanfoist wharf.\n\nBy the 1840s there were about 450 people living around the Garnddyrys Forge.\nGarnddyrys became isolated in 1854 when the railway reached Blaenavon.\nA replacement forge, called Forgeside, was built near the railway in Blaenavon.\nIn 1860 the Garnddyrys works were closed, the forge was relocated to Forgeside, Blaenavon, and the northern branch of the tunnel at Pwll Du was closed.\n\nThe site was abandoned, and is thus important as an archaeologically well-preserved forge from the early 19th century.\nIn 1970 the foundations of the worker's houses were excavated.\nThe site includes two reservoirs, the sites of waterwheels and reservoirs, and workers' housing.\n\n"}
{"id": "29055008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29055008", "title": "Georg Christian Crollius", "text": "Georg Christian Crollius\n\nGeorg Christian Crollius (21 July 1728, Zweibrücken – 23 March 1790, Zweibrücken) was a German historian and librarian.\n\nThe son of the gymnasial headmaster Johann Philipp Crollius and Margaretha Gabriela Joannis, Crollius studied in Halle and Göttingen. He succeeded to his father in the management of the Herzog-Wolfgang-Gymnasium in Zweibrücken, the most renowned school in Palatinate-Zweibrücken. Duke Christian IV appointed him also to the committee of the library, the present-day Bibliotheca Bipontina, and to court historiographer. Similarly to his father he researched about the history of Palatinate-Zweibrücken and of the Rhenish County Palatine. As a member of the Mannheim academy (since 1765) he wrote several essays, which were printed in the series of the academy. The \"Origines Bipontinae\" (1761-1769) might be cited as his main work. Starting in 1779 he contributed also to the \"Editiones Bipontinae\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39579548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39579548", "title": "Hetty Goldman", "text": "Hetty Goldman\n\nHetty Goldman (December 19, 1881 – May 4, 1972) was an American archaeologist. She was the first woman faculty member at the Institute for Advanced Study and one of the first female archaeologists to undertake excavations in Greece and the Middle East.\n\nHetty Goldman was born on December 19, 1881, in New York City. She was a member of the Goldman–Sachs banking family. Her father was Julius Goldman, a lawyer, her mother was Sarah (Adler) Goldman, a homemaker.\n\nGoldman graduated in 1903 from Bryn Mawr College, where she took a double major in English and Greek. She went on to study archaeology at Radcliffe College, where she was the first woman to hold the Charles Eliot Norton Fellowship from Harvard in order to study at the American School of Classical Studies at Athens. She received her PhD in 1916, having written a thesis entitled \"The Terracottas from the Necropolis of Halae\".\n\nGoldman was the first woman to be appointed to the Institute for Advanced Study in 1936. She retired in 1947.\n\nGoldman was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1950. In 1966, the Archaeological Institute of America awarded her the Gold Medal Award for Distinguished Archaeological Achievement.\n\nGoldman died May 4, 1972, in Princeton, New Jersey.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31034361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31034361", "title": "History of the Jews in Cologne", "text": "History of the Jews in Cologne\n\nThe history of the Jews in Cologne is documented from the year 321 AD, almost as long as the history of Cologne. Over its history, the Jewish community of Cologne has suffered persecutions, many expulsions, massacres and destruction. The community numbered about 19,500 people before its dispersal, murders and destruction in the 1930s by the Nazis before and during World War II. The community has re-established itself and now numbers about 4,500 members. Because of its historical continuity, today's Jewish synagogue calls itself the \"oldest Jewish congregation north of the Alps\".\n\nCologne was founded and established in the 1st century AD, as the Roman \"Colonia Claudia Ara Agrippinensium\" in Ubii territory. It was the capital of the Roman province of \"Germania Inferior\" and the headquarters of the military in the region. Cologne was an important city in Roman times. H. Nissen assumes a much greater population for Roman Cologne than it was in the Middle Ages, when he estimates it was between 30,000–40,000. It is reasonable to assume that the spread of Christianity in any Roman province was preceded and accompanied by the existence there of Jews. The presence of Christians in Cologne in the 2nd century would therefore argue for the settlement of Jews in the city at that early date.\n\nJudaism was recognized as a \"religio licita\" (permitted religion), and Jews were exempt from the offering to the Emperor and to the offerings to the Roman state gods. However, Jews were refused access to public offices because these were the basic requirements for access to a public office. For the appointment to a town office a person was required to own land and to have a certain reputation. In Late Antiquity, the Roman upper class increasingly refused to participate in these expensive offices, and the Roman administration went into crisis and the emperor had to look for alternatives. It became necessary for the Cologne Council to use a decree of Emperor Constantine the Great of 321, which permitted Jews to be appointed to the \"curia\". This is the first evidence of the existence of a Jewish community in the town of Cologne. The emperor's decree was passed down in the \"Codex Theodosianus\" (439), which indicates the existence of a firmly established Jewish community in Cologne in 321 and 331. A partial translation of the \"Codex\" reads:\n\n\"We allow all town councils to appoint through general law, Jewish people in the Curia. To give them a certain compensation for the previous rules, we let that always two or three of them enjoy the privilege not to be taken to any office.\"\n\nArchaeological finds indicate the presence of Orientals at about that period, and among them there were Syrians, as is proved by an Aramaic inscription dug up in 1930. In another document, from 341, it is recorded that the synagogue was provided with the emperor's privilege. These decrees of Constantine remained for some centuries the only accounts of the existence of a Jewish community in Cologne.\n\nThe region was occupied by the Franks in 462, which converted to Christianity by the end of the century. During the Middle Ages, Cologne flourished as one of the most important trade routes between east and west Europe. Cologne was one of the leading members of the Hanseatic League and one of the largest cities north of the Alps in medieval and renaissance times. The first documentary reference to the Jews in Cologne in the Middle Ages was to the time of Archbishop Heribert of Cologne (999-1021), the wise friend of Holy Roman Emperor Otto III. Winheim and Gelenius, basing themselves on the Annual Chronicles of Cologne during the 14th and 15th centuries, report that in 1426 the synagogue was turned into a church. They then remark that this synagogue had been in existence 414 years. That would place its origin in the time of Heribert. The Jewish Quarter close to Hohe Straße is mentioned for the first time during the episcopate of Anno II, Archbishop of Cologne (1056–1075) and a report has come down about the Jews joining in lament over the archbishop's death.\n\nThe number of Jews in the community during the last quarter of the 11th century was not less than 600. The markets of Cologne had attracted many Jewish visitors who had partly stayed. Italian Jews are mentioned in the stories about the Crusaders in Cologne. The fact that the Jewish community was important is proved further by the statement in these Hebrew reports that out of Cologne there went forth \"our brethren scattered over the earth support for their life and correct words of judgment\". It means that the community was the center of Jewish life for all the communities of the area.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, the Jewish community had been settled in a quarter near the \"Rathaus\". Still now the name \"Judengasse\" testifies its existence. During the First Crusade in 1096 there were several pogroms. Although the Crusade started from France, assaults happened through the Holy Roman Empire. On 27 May 1096 hundreds of Jews were killed in Mainz during the Rhineland massacres. The palace of the archbishop of Mainz, Ruthard, where the Jews had taken refuge, was stormed by the Crusaders after little resistance. Ruthard was accused of appropriating the property of murdered Jews. A similar thing happened in July of the same year in Cologne. The Jews were forcibly baptized. The permission of Emperor Henry IV to let the Jews who had been forcibly baptized go back to their faith was not ratified by Antipope Clement III. From those times, small and large assaults were repeated not only in the Rhineland.\n\nIn the 12th and 13th century the antisemitic attitude of the town citizens became stronger. In 1146 other Jewish people were killed near Königswinter by a mob of furious Christians, just after the beginning of the Second Crusade. Also in Andernach, Altenahr, Bonn and Lechenich Jews were killed and their houses plundered. These events are presumably to be associated with a wave of persecutions in 1287/88. Violent assaults on Jews of Cologne are not reported in this period. Following the Fourth Council of the Lateran in 1215, all Jews were obliged to display on their clothing a clear sign they were not Christians.\n\nAn early pogrom against had taken place after the Battle of Worringen on 8 June 1288, when the defeated archbishop of Cologne had been imprisoned. For days afterwards a persecution of Jews swept through the surroundings of Cologne. In 1300, a wall was built around the Jewish Quarter, presumably paid for by the Jewish Community itself, though the permission of the Archbishop would naturally have been required.\n\nIn 1317 Pope John XXII started a rigorous campaign against the Jews and publicly declared that usurious interest (which meant any interest) should not be paid to Jews. In 1320, some inhabitants of Cologne tried to avoid the obligation to pay their debts to Jews by appealing to the legislation of the church. The Cologne Council thought necessary to act preemptively in regard to this apparently Church-sanctioned refusal to repay debts and took action in 1321 to limit interest due under penalty. In 1327, the council reiterated this ordinance and appealed directly against a papal decree directed specifically against Salomon of Basel. The same council referred in 1334 to the same letter of the pope and appealed to Archbishop Walram von Jülich for protection from a Jewish banker named Meyer of Siegburg who demanded payment of money from it. The action finished with the withdrawal of all city debts and the condemnation of Meyer to death. The councilmen were in debt to Meyer, and the archbishop kept the confiscated property of the condemned. In addition, the archbishop had also debts with Meyer and was able to cancel them in the same way.\n\nAltogether the Jews of Cologne between 1096 and 1349 appear indeed to have been relatively safe regarding life and physical condition as \"fellow citizens (Mitbürger)\". However, there is substantial evidence of a generally diffused feeling of antagonism against them. For instance, the infamous so-called \"Jewish sow,\" made presumably around 1320, appears on a wooden choir stall of Cologne Cathedral\n\nFrom 1266 the Cologne Jews had the exclusive privilege of lending money, which was forbidden to Christians by Church law. Decisions between 1252 and 1320 address the legal status, protection, and taxation of the Cologne Jews. \n\nThe persecution of the Jewish community at the time of the Black Death became the fiercest in the whole of the Middle Ages.In 1340 a terrible pestilence arrived in Europe. The Black Death had not reached Cologne until December 1349 However, reports of its devastating impact arrived on the Rhine from the south considerably earlier. Ultimately, between 30-60% of the European population died from the epidimic, provoking fears of an apocalyptic nature. Accusations that the plague was caused by a conspiracy of the Jews to poison the wells (accusations that were not proven in even a single case) apparently had origin in southern France, but quickly snowballed across the Continent. They formed the background for a murderous pogrom on 23/24 August 1349 in Cologne.\n\nThere is a letter of the Cologne Council to the council of Strassburg in which the Cologne Council expresses concern about an anti-Jewish incident in Strassburg and warns insistently against an escalation. The Jews and their possessions were protected by letters of protection or consolation, which had to be considered. In the same letter the Cologne Council make clear that they would decidedly protect their own Jews. The council of Strassburg, however, having initially taken a stand against the persecutions, was itself attacked and replaced by the populace; the new council of Strassburg invoked the public peace and called on all the citizens to kill the Jews throughout their territory.. This development was not lost on the town council of Cologne.\n\nUnlike most other anti-Jewish persecutions at the time, the pogrom in Cologne was not spontaneous and did not originate among the lower ranks of Cologne's population. Rather, it appears to have been premediated, as there is clear evidence of the involvement of the leading social figures, or at least some of them. Inspired by the aforementioned events in Strassburg, which the Cologne Council watched closely, the pogrom appears to have been methodically planned. The council members had previously formed an alliance with all that could have an advantage from the killing or expulsion of the Jews in order to secure themselves against the Jews' official protectors, particularly Charles IV (then King of the Romans) and the Habsburg \"Vögte\". This indicates that the pogrom was ultimately aimed against the Habsburgs and exploited the panic among the population simply to reach its goals of political power.\n\nThe Archbishop of Cologne, Walram von Jülich, who had left the city at the end of June 1349 to go to France, died in Paris after a short time. Charles IV had stayed in Cologne until 19 June and had left with his entourage. He had succeeded in securing his interests in Cologne by showing favoritism in crown disputes, undoubtedly not to the advantage of every interest in the archbishopric. The extermination of the Jewish community thus would serve to weaken the positions of both Charles IV and the clergy by associating them with a group already despised by the populace. In August 1349 not only was the see of the archbishop vacant, but Charles IV was not near enough to take action. On 23–24 August the relative security of Jews in Cologne came to an end. The Jews, who had already faced slaughter in the surrounding territories, were now also killed in Cologne itself.\n\nThe actual outcome of the pogrom is not well known. In the course of St. Bartholomew's Night in 1349 the Jewish quarter near the town-hall (\"Rathaus\") was attacked, after which killing, plundering of Jewish properties, and arson followed. Fugitives were pursued and struck down. Though partly contradictory of each other, many sources testify to the calamity. Some report that the Jews themselves set fire to their houses so as not to fall into the hands of the looters. Another version has it that the Jews burned themselves in their synagogue, which is rather improbable. Archeological excavations in the area of the medieval Jewish quarter have suggested that the synagogue itself was standing without damage after the night, but that it was plundered later. In its escape from the riot one family buried its belongings and merchandise. The hoard of coins was discovered during excavations in 1954 and is now exhibited in the \"Kölnisches Stadtmuseum\".\n\nThe account of the chronicler Gilles Li Muisis, which tells of a regular battle of the citizenry against more than 25,000 Jews and credits the victory to the stratagem of a butcher, is not considered reliable. Nevertheless, Li Muisis' account coined the term \"Judenschlacht\" (the Jews' Battle) for the events of that night. Equally unlikely is the involvement of the Flagellants who, according to some sources, were supposedly present in Cologne in 1349. Throughout the proceedings, the council refused to act. Nevertheless, after the violence had died down, the council and the new archbishop Willem van Gennep condemned the pogrom with the utmost severity. The names of the real wire-pullers and of the violent invaders of the Jewish quarter remained unknown. It can only be definitively stated that the council disclaimed any responsibility for the riots: a declaration of the council laid the blame on an out-of-town mob followed by only a few no-accounts from Cologne. A few of the Jewish survivors expelled from the town looked for refuge across the Rhine. Around ten years after the pogrom of 1349, Jewish settlements are documented in Andernach and Siegburg.\n\nThe Jews can be documented to have returned only in 1369, although Archbishop Boemund II of Saarbrücken had already tried to enforce the return of the Jews on the city during his reign (1354 to 1361). Nevertheless, it was only under Engelbert III von der Mark and particularly under his coadjutor Cuno of Falkenstein that the strained relation between the archbishop and the municipality had improved enough for the protection of Jews to seem reasonably assured. There is proof that by 1372 a small Jewish community had again sprung up in Cologne.\n\nAt the request of Archbishop Frederick the Jews were admitted to the town and obtained a temporary protection privilege for ten years. To this, however, the Council attached some conditions. For the privilege of admission there was a tax between 50 and 500 Gulden, with a new sum specifiable every year to be paid as a general contribution. After further extensions of the right of residence the Council proclaimed in 1404 a more restrictive \"Judenordnung\". It ordained that the Jews had to be recognizable by wearing a pointed Jewish hat and banned any displays of luxury on their part. In 1423 the Cologne Council decided not to extend the temporary right of residence, which expired on October 1424. Nevertheless, it is remarkable that an attempt was made immediately to re-establish a full community, rather than allowing only a few Jews to settle at a time, as was the procedure of most other large towns.\n\nIn 1424, Jews were banned from the town \"for eternity\". Following the medieval pogroms and expulsion of 1424, many Jews of Cologne emigrated to central or northern European countries like Poland and Lithuania, then part of the \"Ordensstaat\" of the Teutonic Order. The offspring of these emigrants returned to Cologne at the beginning of the 19th century and lived mainly in the area of Thieboldsgasse on the southeast side of Neumarkt. Only a few Jews remained near Cologne and settled predominantly on the eastern bank of the Rhine (Deutz, Mühlheim, Zündorf). Later new communities developed, which grew over the years. The first community in Deutz lived in the area of the present Minden Street (\"Mindener Straße\"). There Jews felt themselves safe under the protection of archbishop Dietrich von Moers (1414–1463).\n\nThe ban on Jewish settlement in Cologne was withdrawn at the end of the 18th century. A new Jewish community came into existence under the French administration. At the beginning of the Modern Age the area of the Jewish quarter was rebuilt and the previous inhabitants forgotten.\n\nAfter the destruction of the community during Second World War, the medieval foundations were discovered, among them a synagogue and the monumental Cologne \"mikveh\" (ritual bath). The archeological survey was conducted after the war by Otto Doppelfeld from 1953 to 1956. On the basis of the awareness of history the area has not been reconstructed after the war and has remained as a square in front of the historical Rathaus. Today, the Jewish quarter is part of the \"archeological zone of Cologne\".\n\nIn Cologne there was one of the largest Jewish library of Middle Ages. After the massacre of the Jews in York, England in 1190, a number of Hebrew books from there were brought to and sold in Cologne. There are a number of remarkable manuscripts and illuminations prepared by and for Jews of Cologne during the 12th to the 15th centuries and now kept in various libraries and museums throughout the world.\n\nAccording to the Jewish Encyclopedia, Cologne was a center of Jewish learning, and the \"wise of Cologne\" are frequently mentioned in rabbinical literature. A characteristic of the Talmudic authorities of that city was their liberality. Many liturgical poems still in the Ashkenazic ritual were composed by poets of Cologne.\n\nHere are the names of many rabbis and scholars of the 11th and 12th centuries: the legendary Amram, traditional founder of the Talmudic school in the 10th century; R. Jacob ben Yaḳḳar, disciple of Gerson Meor ha-Golah (1050); the liturgist Eliakim ben Joseph; Eliezer ben Nathan (1070–1152), the chronicler of the First Crusade; the poet Eliezer ben Simson, who, together with the last named, took part in the famous assembly of French and German rabbis about the mid-12th century; the Tosafist Samuel ben Natronai and his son Mordecai; the liturgist Joel ben Isaac ha-Levi (d. 1200); Uri ben Eliakim (mid-12th century); R. Eliakim ben Judah; Ephraim ben Jacob of Bonn (b. 1132), the chronicler of the Second Crusade. The last lost at Cologne, in 1171, his son Eliakim, a promising youth, who was murdered in the street. His tombstone is still to be seen in the cemetery of Cologne.\n\nAmong the rabbis and scholars of the 13th century were: Eliezer ben Joel ha-Levi; Uri ben Joel ha-Levi; Jehiel ben Uri, father of R. Asher; Isaac ben Simson (martyred in 1266); Isaac ben Abraham, brother of the Tosafist Simson ben Abraham of Sens (martyred in 1266 at Sinzig); R. Isaiah ben Nehemiah (also martyred in 1266 at Sinzig); the liturgist Eliezer ben Ḥayyim; Ḥayyim ben Jehiel (d. 1314) and Asher ben Jehiel (b. c. 1250; d. 1327); Yaḳḳar ben Samuel ha-Levi; Reuben ben Hezekiah of Boppard; Abraham ben Samuel; Judah ben Meïr; Samuel ben Joseph; Ḥayyim ben Shaltiel; Nathan ben Joel ha-Levi; Jacob Azriel ben Asher ha-Levi; Meïr ben Moses; Eliezer ben Judah ha-Kohen, most of whom are known as commentators on the Bible.\n\nThe rabbis and scholars of the 14th century include: Samuel ben Menahem, Talmudist and liturgist; Jedidiah ben Israel, disciple of Meïr of Rothenburg; and Mordecai ben Samuel. These three are called in the municipal sources \"Gottschalk,\" \"Moyter,\" and \"Süsskind.\" The rabbi who officiated at the time of the banishment was Jekuthiel ben Moses Möln ha-Levi.\n\nIn Middle Ages there were in Cologne the following buildings, synagogues, mikvehs, schools, hospices and cemeteries:\n\nIn 1174 a document of Saint Engelbert, at the time provost of the monastery of Saint Severin in Cologne, mentions that thirty-eight years previously Knight Ortliv had given back five jugerum of land that he had received from the monastery as a fief near the Jews cemetery, and the land had been let to the Jews against a yearly payment of four \"denarii\" and Ortliv couldn’t have any claim on it.\nIn 1266 Archbishop Engelbert II von Falkenburg ensured the lawful management and undisturbed usage of their cemetery on Bonner Strasse. It was located outside the walls of Cologne towards the south near Severinstores, called Judenbüchel or \"Toten Juden\". This name remained to the area also after the removal of the cemetery until the construction of the supermarket in this place.\n\nThe cemetery measured 29,000 square meters. In 1096 Salomon ben Simeon mentions the tombstones of the Jews buried there. In 1146 Rabbi Simeon of Trier was buried in the cemetery by the leaders of the Cologne Jewish community. The earliest tombstone still in existence dates from the year 1152. After 1349 the tombstones were considered owner-less; some of them were torn out of their places and used by Archbishop William de Gunnep for the construction of the fortress of Lechenig or in Huelchrath. After 1372 the Jews of Cologne again were granted the use of the cemetery and it was used until 1693 mainly by the Jews of Deutz.\n\nBy excavations of the area of the Cologne Rathaus in 1953 two fully conserved tombstones were found on the northwest corner of the building in a large bomb crater. They probably came from the Jewish cemetery of Judenbüchel and were used as building material. The inscription of the tombstone of Rachel said:\n\n The few Jews who remained in the city, began to re-establish a community in right-Rhenish Deutz, whose rabbi called himself later \"Country Rabbi of Cologne\" (\"Landesrabbiner\"). Rabbi Vives was known by this title during the mid-15th century.\n\nIn 1634, there were 17 Jews in Deutz, in 1659 there were 24 houses inhabited by Jews and in 1764 the community consisted of 19 people. Towards the end of the 18th century the community still consisted of 19 people.\n\nThe community was located in a small Jewish \"quarter\" in the area of Mindener and Hallenstraße. A synagogue, first mentioned in 1426, was damaged by the immense ice drift of the Rhine in 1784. The \"mikveh\" associated with the synagogue probably still exists under the embankment of the Brückenrampe (Deutzer Bridge). This first synagogue was then replaced by a new small building on the west end of \"Freiheit\", the today's street \"Deutzer Freiheit\" (1786–1914).\n\nIn those times, the Jews of the Deutz community lived like all the others of the Electorate of Cologne under the legal and society conditions, that were provided by the state from the end of the 16th century through a so-called \"Judenordnung\". The last issue of this laws for the Jews was the Order of 1700 by Kurfürst (elector of the Holy Roman Empire) Joseph Clemens. They were kept until new legislation came also in Deutz, with the adoption of the Napoleonic code.\n\nDuring the construction of the Deutzer Hängebrücke in 1913/14, the synagogue was abandoned and demolished. In December 1913, during works to remove the \"Schiffsbrückenstraßenbahnlinie\" in Deutz on the \"Freiheitsstraße\", a mikveh was found under the old synagogue. The bath had a link to the water of the Rhine.\n\nIn contrast to the building evidence in Innenstadt, the history of the Jewish communities outside the city center is revealed above all through the remains of the Jewish cemeteries. There are right-Rhenish Jewish cemetery in Mülheim, \"Am Springborn\", in Zündorf between \"Hasenkaul\" and the \"Gartenweg\", and one in Deutz im \"Judenkirchhofsweg\". The latter was given to the Jews of Deutz by Archbishop Joseph Clemens of Bavaria in 1695 as a rented land. The first burials took place in 1699. When in 1798 the Jews were again permitted to settle within the old city walls of Cologne, the cemetery was also used by this community until 1918.\n\nUntil the French annexion of Cologne in 1794, following the French Revolution, no Jew was permitted to settle in Cologne. The Napoleonic Code included equality before the law, rights of individual freedom and the separation of church and state. The Government Commissioner Rudler, in his proclamation of June 21, 1798 to the inhabitants of the conquered territory announced: \nA few months earlier, Joseph Isaac of Mühlheim on the Rhine had sought civic rights from the Magistracy of Cologne. Since he presented favorable evidence of his previous conduct and also proved that he would not become a burden to the city because of poverty, permission was granted to him on March 16, 1798 to settle in Cologne. The rest of his requests for civic rights were refused because French regulations had not yet come into force. He was followed by Samuel Benjamin Cohen of Bonn, son of the Chief Rabbi Simha Brunem. At the same time, the 17-year-old Salomon Oppenheim, Jr. moved his businesses from Bonn to Cologne. He belonged to the families who built the first Cologne community of Modern Times. Oppenheim, Jr. traded with cotton, linen, oil, wine and tobacco but his main activity was banking. Already in 1810 his bank was the second largest in Cologne after \"Abraham Schaffhausen\". Within the new Cologne Jewish community, Oppenheim, Jr. took an outstanding position in the social and political life. He was in charge of the community school but he was also the deputy of the Cologne community, who sent him to the congress of Jewish Notables in Paris in 1806–1807.\n\nA modest hall of prayer was built inside the court of the former Monastery of St. Clarissa in Glockengasse. The land was bought by Benjamin Samuel Cohen, one of the Jewish communal leaders in the early 1800s, taking advantage of a property sale by the French tax-office. Even if in those times a row of Jewish business people experienced an economic and social rise—Oppenheim Jr. was elected unanimously to be a member of the Chamber of Commerce and had for the first time as a Jew a public office—their legal status was unsecure.\n\nThe Prussian Jews Edict of March 11, 1812 didn't apply everywhere. It lasted until the Prussian Jewish Law of 1847 and finally until 1848, with the adoption of the constitutional charter for the Prussian State, the special status of the Jews was definitely abolished and a complete equality of rights with all other citizens was attained. During the Revolutions of 1848 in the German states in 1848/49 there were strong anti-Jewish excesses in Eastern and South-eastern German regions and towns like Berlin, Prag and Vienna—but also Cologne.\n\nDue to the growth of the community and the disrepair of the prayer hall in the former Monastery of St. Clarissa, the Oppenheim family donated a new synagogue building at Glockengasse 7. The number of the members of the community was now about of 1,000 adults. While in Medieval times the \"quarter\" had been built close to the synagogue in Cologne \"Judengasse\", by now the Jews lived in a decentralized area among the rest of the population. Many lived in the new periphery quarters near the city walls.\n\nDue to further growth of the Jewish population, more new constructions followed the one in Glockengasse. The orthodox synagogue in St. Apern Straße was dedicated on January 16, 1884; the liberal synagogue in Roonstraße was dedicated on March 22, 1899.\n\nIn the face of historical experiences in Europe, the Jews started initiatives to create their own state. The head office of the Zionist Organization for Germany was based in Richmodstraße near Neumarkt square, Cologne, and was founded by lawyer Max Bodenheimer together with merchant David Wolffsohn. Bodeheimer was president until 1910 and worked for Zionism with Theodor Herzl. The \"Kölner Thesen\" developed under Bodenheimer for Zionism were — with few adjustments — adopted as the \"Basel Program\" by the first Zionist Congress. The goal of the organization was to obtain the foundation of a distinct state of Israel in Palestine for all the Jews of the world.\n\nAfter the constant growth of the community the hall of prayer at Glockengasse was overloaded. A donation of the Cologne banker Abraham Oppenheim of around 600,000 \"thalers\" allowed the construction of a new synagogue. The project was won by Ernst Friedrich Zwirner, leading architect of the Cathedral of Cologne, who designed a building in Moorish style. The new synagoge was inaugurated after four years of construction in August 1861. The inner and outside design was to remind the bloom of Jewish culture during 11th-century Moorish Spain. The new synagogue had a façade of light sandstone with red horizontal stripes as well as oriental minaret and a cupola covered with copper plates. The ornaments in the inside were inspired by the Alhambra of Granada. The new synagogue, which was valued positively by Cologne people, had seats for 226 men and 140 women.\n\nWhile set on fire in November 1938, the rolls of the Torah of 1902 could be saved, thanks to the Cologne priest Gustav Meinertz. After the war they were placed in a glass cabinet in Roonstrasse Synagogue. After a restoration, carried out in Jerusalem in 2007, they are now used again in the liturgies in Roonstrasse Synagogue, rebuilt after the war.\n\nThe St. Aper Straße Synagogue already existed during the middle of the 18th century. It was located in a mixed-use area, appreciated by affluent citizens. There were many exquisite antique shops, in which mostly Jewish owners sold expensive furniture and jewels. In 1884, these inhabitants built a synagogue of the orthodox community \"Adass Jeschurun\". The last rabbi was Isidor Caro who died in Theresienstadt concentration camp.\n\nIn the associated Jawne School, a Jewish school, there were courses from 1919 to 1941. It was the first and only Jewish gymnasium in the Rhineland.\n\nBy the end of 1899, the Jewish community in Cologne had grown to 9,745 members. Already in 1893, the community had bought a piece of land on Roonstraße — opposite the Königsplatz. In 1894, the Representative Assembly of the city voted for a grant of 40,000 marks from the city treasury. It was estimated that the cost of the new building would be about 550,000 marks. To cover this sum a substantial loan was made with the \"Prussian Zentralbodenkredit Aktiengesellshaft\". The synagogue was finished in 1899 and had places for 763 men and 587 women in the gallery. A historical photo was considered worth to be put in the photo archive of the Israeli Holocaust Memorial Yad Vashem. The structure has been seriously damaged during the war but it was decided to rebuild it. The reopened synagogue was dedicated on September 20, 1959.\n\nThe last synagogue was built in Reischplatz in Deutz. The building was dedicated in 1915 and, after the damages of the last war, was rebuilt in another form and with a new usage, as there was no more Jewish community in Deutz. A commemorative plaque remembers the Deutz community and its last synagogue.\n\nThe first synagogue of the community of Köln-Mülheim was damaged by a Rhine flood in 1784 — as was the one in Deutz. A new synagogue was dedicated in the same place a few years later, designed by the master-builder Wilhelm Hellwig in 1788/1789.\nThe disposition of the construction began on the street with a school, on which a synagogue was attached with a hip roof on four sides. The building survived the 1938 pogrom but was damaged during the war and demolished in 1956.\n\nThe synagogue in Niederzündorf was at the beginning a prayer room, that had not enough space after the strong growth of the community in the 19th century. In 1882 a new building was completed, and the \"Zündorfer Pfarrchronik\" wrote:\n\nThe land (today Hauptstr. 159) was sold and partly donated to the community by two Jewish business people from there, \"Lazarus Meyer\" und \"Simon Salomon\".\nThe Pfarrchronik also wrote:\n\n\nIt is not clear in which year a Jewish cemetery was created as part of the large cemetery of Melaten. Until 1829, only Catholics could be buried there, while Protestants were buried in the old Geusen cemetery in Weyertal. The Jewish community buried its dead people until 1918 in Deutz and then in Bocklemünd. However, in 1899 also a section of Melaten cemetery was reserved to the Jews. In 1899 there was the first burial. A part of the piece of land bordering a high wall can still be seen from the Melatengürtel street. In 1928, the cemetery was violated for the first time, in 1938 the mortuary chapel was destroyed.\n\nLocated in Köln-Lindenthal, behind the area of the old Deckstein cemetery, this cemetery was created in 1910 from the community \"Adass Jeschurun\". Because the Adass Jeschurun oppose any concessions to Christian rituals, there is no burial in a coffin or urn. Also, flower decorations or wreaths are uncommon there. The tombstones of the cemetery are very sober and predominantly engraved with Hebrew letters. Entry is not open to the public (a permit needs to be obtained from the Synagogengemeinde Köln).\n\nThe Jewish business community was optimistic for the future. In 1891, the merchant Leonhard Tietz opened a department store on Hohe Straße. The banks of Seligmann and the Oppenheim family flourished. The store of textile wholesale company \"Gebrüder Bing und Söhne\" opened on the Neumarkt. Exquisite shops of Jewish merchants were situated around the cathedral on Hohe Straße and Schildergasse.\n\nBy the middle of the 19th century, Cologne developed into a scientific, economic and cultural centre, and the Jewish community had a strong part in this development. After Jewish citizens had taken their place in the financial and commercial world, and while being respected and recognized most places, they also tried to contribute in the forming of the political opinion. For example, Moses Hess and Karl Marx in 1842 wrote in the newly established \"Rheinische Zeitung\". They were among the leading contributors to this newspaper, dedicated to \"politics, business and trade\". In 1863, Hess, in his article \"Rome and Jerusalem\", tried to present a possibility of a resettlement of Jews in Palestine. His work, however, found little approval, with Jews in Germany, especially in large cities like Cologne, considering Germany as their country of origin and home.\n\nJust at the beginning of the First World War, the Jewish associations called their members to stand up for Germany. However the existing ressentiment against Jews participating to the war was so strong, especially among officers, that the Ministry of War was compelled as a mediation to arrange a so-called Jewish census. At the end of the war in 1918, Adolf Kober took the place of rabbi of the Cologne community, which was one of the largest in Germany. Kober was one of the co-sponsors of the exhibition of the Jewish history in the \"Millennium-Exhibition of the Rhineland\", that took place at the Cologne trade fairgrounds in 1925. By 1918 the Jewish cemetery of Bocklemünd was opened, which is still in use today.\n\nWith the takeover of the political power by the Nazis repression against the Jewish citizens of Cologne started again. In spring 1933, 15,000 inhabitants declared on the population census that they were Jewish. There were 6 synagogues and other community and meeting places in Cologne, which were all violated in the Kristallnacht on 9 November 1938 and were completely destroyed after the war, until the reconstruction of the synagogue in Roonstraße.\n\nAlso in Cologne there were Nazi and antisemitic attitudes in the population and society. In fact Cologne politicians like Konrad Adenauer or writers like Heinrich Böll demonstrated a spirit of defiance and sovereignty that \"no tyrant, no dictator can feel well in Cologne\".\n\nA few Cologne people made an open opposition to Nazism or hid Jews (a known example of this is the Ehrenfeld Group). The agitation against Judaism and Cologne Jews found no contrast, so in the antisemitic pieces of the Hänneschen-Theater or in Cologne Carnival, in which no clear criticism against National Socialism was exhibited. Carnival carriages in the Rosenmontag parade showed antisemitic themes and a carnival song mocked the Jews: \"Metz dä Jüdde es jetz Schluß, Se wandere langsam uss. (...) Mir laachen uns für Freud noch halv kapott. Der Itzig und die Sahra trecke fott\" (translation: \"With the Jews it is finished, they emigrate slowly… We laugh with joy. The Itzig and the Sarah move away\",\n\nThe so-called Aryanization proceeded in two phases. The first between January 1933 and November 1938 was the \"voluntary\" Aryanization. In the official version it was stated as a voluntary change of property between a Jewish and a non-Jewish contract partner. This willingness was achieved selling \"voluntarily\" a shop, a practice, a bar, a pharmacy or a company, through a business transaction described in the following: Increasingly business people decorated their shops or their advertising with opportunistic slogans. One saw printed or handwritten writings with a number of words, for example: \"German shop\", \"German goods\" or also \"Christian shop\". Painted stars of David or defamation slogans on the walls or windows of the Jews followed. Announcements were made by the local NSDAP, in which lists of specified companies with the names of the Jewish owners were supplied. \nOn April 1, 1933, in the day of the Nazi boycott of Jewish businesses, members of NS-organizations placed themselves in front of Jewish shops also in Cologne to prevent the entrance to customers. The Jewish merchant Richard Stern, who had fought in the first world war, distributed a leaflet against the boycott and placed himself with ostentation with his Iron Cross near the SA-poster in front of his shop. The repression against Jewish businessmen took such an effect that the population avoided buying in these shops and the owners lost their means of existence. Jewish merchants tried to hold out against the pressure to have a compensation for their property. The newspapers were in succession stacked with announcements about failures and acquisitions of Jewish companies.\n\nThe second phase of Aryanization started after November 1938, with the Party acting more openly. Jewish property on companies or buildings were with state laws \"arianized by force\". They were forced to sell their property under the market value. It stroke by example the company \"Deka-Schuh, Leopold Dreyfuß\" in Ehrenfeld, the neckties whole sale \"Herbert Fröhlich\" in the Streitzeuggasse, the butcher and snack bar \"Katz-Rosenthal\", the fashion boutique \"Michel\" (later Jacobi) and the clothing house \"Bamberger\" (later Hansen). Particularly hard were struck the numerous Jewish shops on the Hohe Straße and Schildergasse, there one over three shops were aryanized.\n\nTogether with the shops and their names trusted from the Cologne people also their owners were blown away. These measures ended up with persecution and deportation of Cologne Jews.\n\nThe day of boycott was also directed against Jewish lawyers and doctors. On 31 March there were violent attacks by the SA and SS against Jewish lawyers in the Justice building on Reichensperger Platz. Judges and lawyers were arrested, partly mistreated, then loaded on garbage trucks and taken around the city.\n\nIn October 1935 Jews were excluded from the benefits of the \"Winterhelp of the German People\", and a \"Jewish Winterhelp\" was organized as an autonomous organization. It collected money,food, clothing, furniture and fuel and in winter 1937/38 the organisation supported 2,300 indigent people, a fifth of Jewish community.\n\nAlthough already in 1925 Cologne was the capital of the NSDAP-Gau of Cologne-Aachen, many didn't realize the growing radicalness of this party. Still in 1927 the synagogue in Körnerstraße was built as the last construction of the Jewish community of Cologne by the architect Robert Stern. It was dedicated to \"the glory of God, the truth of faith and the peace of mankind\". The synagogue had a small vestibule surrounded with arches. The prayer room had 200 seats for men and 100 for women. The latter were located in a women gallery, as in many other places. The Jewish population in Ehrenfeld reached 2000 people. The synagogue had also a ritual bath, that was discovered through excavations in Körnerstraße.\n\nA plaque in Körnerstraße remembers the destroyed synagogue and its attached religion school: \n\"In this place there was the Synagogue of Ehrenfelder, connected to a Religion school for girls and boys, built in 1927 according to the plan of Architect Robert Stern, destroyed in the day after the pogrom of Kristallnacht on November 9, 1938\"\n\nAt the place of the synagogue there is now an air-raid shelter, built in 1942–43, which has been protected as a historical monument since 1995.\n\nAfter the organized and controlled destruction of lives, properties and establishments in the whole country, the antisemitic policies intensified also in Cologne. Jewish children could not attend any German school. By 1 January 1939 all the Jews were excluded from the economic life and constrained to forced labor. They were expropriated, renters were deprived of rent control.\n\nIn total, more than 40% of the Jewish population emigrated before September 1939. In May 1939 the Jewish population was 8,406 with another 2,360 \"Mischlinge\", persons of mixed Jewish-non-Jewish ancestry. When war came in September 1939, the remainder of Cologne Jewry became subject to an all-night curfew, their special food rations were far below that of the general population, they were officially forbidden to use public transport and, when allied bombing began, to use public air raid shelters.\n\nIn May 1941 the Cologne Gestapo started to concentrate all Jewish from Cologne in so-called Jewish houses. From there they were transferred to the barracks in Fort V in Müngersdorf. The ghettoisation was the preparation for the deportation to exterminations camps. In September 1941 the \"Police order about the identification of Jews\" obliged all Jewish people in the German Reich more than six years old to wear a yellow badge sewed to the left side of the garment.\n\nOn 21 October 1941 the first transport left Cologne for Łódź, the last one was sent to Theresienstadt on 1 October 1944. Immediately before the transport the fair hall in Cologne-Deutz was used as a detention camp. The transports left from the underground part of the Köln Messe/Deutz Station. The deported people went to Łódź, Theresienstadt, Riga, Lublin and other ghettos and camps in the east, which were only transit points: from here they went to extermination camps.\n\nOf special note was the deportation to Minsk on July 20, 1942, of Jewish children and some of their teachers, among them Erich Klibansky. The last to be deported in 1943 were Jewish communal workers. After that deportation the only Jews remaining were those in mixed marriages and their children, many of whom were deported in the fall of 1944.\n\nOut of Müngersdorf and Deutz were situated also prisoners and concentration camps on a factory site in Porz Hochkreuz and also in the nearby place of Brauweiler.\n\nWhen the U.S. troops occupied Cologne on 6 March 1945, between 30 and 40 Jewish men who had survived in hiding were found.\n\nOf the 19,500 Jewish citizens of Cologne in 1930, about 11,000 were killed during by Nazi regime. Some of them were killed after they left Germany to avoid Nazi persecution. Among others, the Cologne lawyer Siegmund Klein and his son Walter Klein were killed in Auschwitz Concentration Camp, after being deported respectively from the Netherlands and France in 1943 and 1942.\n\nThe survivors of the Cologne community regathered in the ruins of the Ehrenfeld asylum, whose main building had been preserved to a large extent, for a new beginning. In Ottostraße a synagogue was also temporarily arranged, until the community could rebuild the Neo-Romanesque Lord's house at Roonstraße in 1959.\n\nAt the first post-war Christmas Eve celebrations in 1959, the synagogue and the Cologne memorial for the Victims of the Nazi regime were damaged by two members of the extreme rightist Deutsche Reichspartei, who were later arrested. The synagogue was daubed with black, white and red color paint, and a swastika and the slogan \"Juden raus\" were added.\n\nRabbis active in Cologne in the postwar period were Zvi Asaria and E. Schereschewski. The \"Monumenta Judaica\" exhibition, reflecting 2,000 years of Jewish history and culture in the Rhineland, was shown in 1963–64.\n\nBesides a youth centre, the community maintained a Jewish home for the aged. The Jewish community numbered 1,358 in 1989 and 4,650 in 2003.\n\nThe Jewish cemetery of Bocklemünd has been used as a burial place since 1918 and is still used today. The Lapidarium of the cemetery hosts 58 fragments of stones between the 12th and the 15th century, that came from the Jewish cemetery of Judenbüchel in Köln-Raderberg, which was closed in 1695 with the opening of a new cemetery in Deutz and excavated in 1936. People who were buried there were moved to another grave in Bocklemünd.\n\nThe Ehrenfeld Centre on the Nußbaumerstraße / Ottostraße is the successor of the \"Jewish Hospital of Ehrenfeld\". The hospital survived Nazism but was damaged by bomb attacks. In the building gathered the Jewish survivors of the Cologne community who then moved to the rebuild Synagogue at Roonstraße in the 1950s thereafter the hospital served as a Belgium military hospital until the 1990s. The facilities that exist in the same place, today called \"Jüdisches Wohlfahrtszentrum\", have their origin, as the partly conserved building of the old hospital of 1908, in one of the 18th century charitable constructions in \"Silvanstraße\", the \"Israelitische Asyl für Kranke und Altersschwache\".\n\nThe Union of Progressive Jews in Germany (UPJ), founded in Munich in June 1997, is a religious association with a small Jewish liberal community in Köln-Riehl, with about 50 members and calls itself \"Jüdische Liberale Gemeinde Köln Gescher LaMassoret e.V.\". The community offers regular religious instruction for small children, young and adults.\n\nSince 1861, the following persons have headed the executive board of the Jewish community of Cologne: the physician Doctor Bendix, S.M. Frank (until 1879), Jacob de Longe, Louis Elliel (until 1919), Emil Blumenau (until 1931), the lawyer Doctor H. Frank (until 1933) and consul Albert Bendix until 1939.\n\nUntil 1857, the community was managed by the Bonn Consistory and its rabbi. The first Cologne rabbi was \n\nThe synagogues of the community had the following cantors:\nAll of them contributed to the enrichment of synagogue music.\n\nThe rectors of the community school were \n\nCologne Jews, involved in the larger Jewish community were \n\nThe most important Jewish names in the economic life of the city during the nineteenth century were \nJews involved in politics were \n\nJews involved in the arts were \n\nDuring the 1930s Cologne had many Jewish lawyers (125 at number) and doctors.\n\n\n\nThe Judengasse, near the Rathaus, reminds of the former Jewish quarter. During French annexion of Cologne, the Judengasse was given the name \"Rue des Juifs\", but renamed to its old name shortly after. Today, this area has no residential buildings.\n\nThe municipality of Cologne, in the frame of the Regionale 2010, plans to build an \"archeological area\" as an archaeological-historical museum. In this context a Jewish museum should arise between the historical Rathaus and the Wallraf-Richartz-Museum over the basement of the first Cologne synagogues and ritual bath. The construction has been decided in the Council but is opposed by politics and the people, because the town loses a free square in front of the historical Rathaus. At present there are excavations on the designated site for the first time since 1950, in which part of the synagogue of the Jewish quarter should be uncovered.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3321715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3321715", "title": "History of the tango", "text": "History of the tango\n\nTango, a distinctive tango dance and the corresponding musical style of tango music, began in the working-class port neighborhoods of Montevideo (Uruguay) and Buenos Aires (Argentina); on both sides of the Rio de la Plata.\n\nThere are numbers of theories about the origin of the word \"tango\". One of the more popular in recent years has been that it came from the Niger–Congo languages of Africa. Another theory is that the word \"tango\", already in common use in Andalusia to describe a style of music, lent its name to a completely different style of music in Argentina and Uruguay.\n\nThe dance derives from the Cuban habanera, the Argentine milonga and candombe, and is said to contain elements from the African community in Buenos Aires, influenced both by ancient African rhythms and the music from Europe. \n\nEven though the present forms developed in Argentina and Uruguay from the mid 19th century, there are earlier written records of Tango dances in Cuba and Spain, while there is a flamenco Tangos dance that may share a common ancestor in a minuet-style European dance. All sources stress the influence of the African communities and their rhythms, while the instruments and techniques brought in by European immigrants played a major role in its final definition, relating it to the Salon music styles to which Tango would contribute back at a later stage, when it became fashionable in early 20th century Paris.\n\nIn Argentina, the word \"Tango\" seems to have first been used in the 1890s. In 1902 the Teatro Opera started to include tango in their balls. Initially tango was just one of the many available local dances, but it soon became popular throughout society, as theatres and street barrel organs spread it from the suburbs to the working-class slums, which were packed with hundreds of thousands of European immigrants. The development of Tango had influences from the cultures of several peoples that came together in these melting pots of ethnicities. For this reason Tango is often referred to as the music of the immigrants to Argentina.\n\nDuring the period 1903–1910 over a third of the 1,000 gramophone records released were of tango music, and tango sheet music sold in large quantities. In 1910 the bandoneon was introduced to Buenos Aires from Germany and it became linked inextricably with tango music from then on. In 1912, Juan \"Pacho\" Maglio was very popular with his recorded tangos featuring the bandoneon accompanied by flute, violin and guitar. Between 1910 and 1920, tango featured on 2,500 of the 5,500 records released. \n\nBy 1912, dancers and musicians from Buenos Aires travelled to Europe and the first European tango craze took place in Paris, soon followed by London, Berlin, and other capitals. Towards the end of 1913 it hit New York in the USA, and Finland. These exported versions of Tango were modified to have less body contact (\"Ballroom Tango\"); however, the dance was still thought shocking by many, as had earlier been the case with dances such as the Waltz. In 1922 guidelines were first set for the \"English\" (international) style of ballroom tango, but it lost popularity in Europe to new dances including the Foxtrot and Samba, and as dancing as a whole declined due to the growth of cinema. \n\nAs the dance form became wildly popular with upper and middle classes around the world, Argentine high society adopted the previously low-class dance form as their own. In 1913, tango began to move from the dark side of town to elegant dance palaces. In 1916, Roberto Firpo, an extremely successful bandleader of the period, cemented the arrangements for standard tango sextet: two bandoneons, two violins, piano and double bass. Firpo heard a march by Uruguayan Gerardo Matos Rodríguez and adapted it for tango, creating the popular and iconic \"La Cumparsita\".\n\nIn 1917, folk singer Carlos Gardel recorded his first tango song \"Mi Noche Triste\", forever associating tango with the feeling of tragic love as revealed in the lyric. During the first decade of the 20th century, some songs under the name of tango were recorded, but these recordings did not achieve great popularity. However, in 1921, 'El Sonido de la Milonga' helped bring about the rise of tango, and introduced it properly as a form to the people.\n\nClassically trained musicians weren't associated with tango music until Julio De Caro, violinist, formed an orchestra in 1920 and made the tango more elegant, complex and refined, as well as slowing the tempo somewhat. With Pedro Laurenz on bandoneon, De Caro's orchestra was famous for over a decade.\n\nIn Argentina, the onset in 1929 of the Great Depression and restrictions introduced after the overthrow of the Hipólito Yrigoyen government in 1930 caused Tango to decline. Its fortunes were reversed as tango became widely fashionable and a matter of national pride under the government of Juan Perón. Tango declined again in the 1950s with economic recession and the banning of public gatherings by the military dictatorships. It should be noted that male-only Tango dancers used to practice among themselves for up to 3 years prior to their debut (going to a public Milonga (place)), and that practice fell under the prohibition of public gatherings. One of the results was that rock and roll became more popular because it did not require males' gatherings. \n\nThe dance lived on in smaller venues until its revival in the 1980s following the opening in Paris of the show \"Tango Argentino\", The Broadway musical \"Forever Tango\", and in Europe \"Tango Pasión.\"\n\nA little known variant that has never become popular is the lasagnette, in which the positions of the partners are reversed. It was first performed in the Argentine embassy in London by Lord Dritz the Elder and his bride, Johanna, at the celebration marking the end of the Argentina-Britain Falkland Island conflict. According to the Lord's grand nephew, an American residing in Florida, the dance position was related to the Lord's affliction with dyslexia as a young child.\n\n"}
{"id": "56359388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56359388", "title": "Hoyt Bleakley", "text": "Hoyt Bleakley\n\nHoyt Bleakley is an economist who currently works as an associate professor at the University of Michigan. His research has focused on economic history, development economics, labour economics, health economics, and international macroeconomics.\n\nHoyt Bleakley studied economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), from where he obtained his Ph.D. in 2002. Thereafter, he worked in 2002-2003 as a postdoctoral fellow at the Population Research Center of the University of Chicago before becoming an assistant professor of economics at the University of California, San Diego in 2003 and moving to the Booth School of Business in 2005. There, he began working at the Center for Population Economics and was promoted to associate professor in 2009. In 2014, Bleakley took over a position as associate professor at the University of Michigan, where he is also affiliated with the Population Studies Center. Moreover, Bleakley has been affiliated with the National Bureau of Economic Research since 2007 and had visiting positions at Princeton University.\n\nIn addition to these positions, Hoyt Bleakley has acted as a referee for numerous research journals in the social and health sciences, was a member of the editorial board of the \"Journal of Economic History\" from 2013 to 2017, and deputy editor of \"Demography\". In 2010 and 2012, he has received awards for his research using IPUMS data, as well as the 2011 Prize for Best Paper in the \"American Economic Journal\".\n\nHoyt Bleakley's research has focused on economic history, development economics, labour economics, health, and international macroeconomics. Based on his research, he is currently (January 2018) ranked among the top 3% of economists registered on IDEAS/RePEc. Major findings of his research include:\n"}
{"id": "50764772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50764772", "title": "Idées républicaines", "text": "Idées républicaines\n\nIdées républicaines (\"Republican ideas\") is a political pamphlet by the French philosopher and author Voltaire. It was published anonymously and undated, but is thought to have been written in late 1765. It defends free thought and free expression in general, and also contains Voltaire's thoughts on the ongoing campaign for democracy in Geneva, where he supported greater power for the citizens.\n\nThe pamphlet includes critical commentary on Jean-Jacques Rousseau's \"The Social Contract\" and Montesquieu's \"The Spirit of the Laws\".\n\nIt also defends the natural right to free expression. \"The Social Contract\" had been burned at Geneva. Voltaire writes, \"The operation of burning it was perhaps as odious as that of writing it. [...] If the book was dangerous, it should have been refuted. To burn a book of argument is to say: 'We do not have enough wit to reply to it.'\" He comments that England, despite being a monarchy, has a more enlightened population than other countries because the right to publish is protected by law.\n\nVoltaire writes that a perfect government is impossible, but that a republic is the closest to achieving natural equality.\n\nThere are many textual similarities between \"Idées républicaines\" and Voltaire's private memorandum on the struggle in Geneva, \"Propositions à examiner pour apaiser les division de Genève\".\n\n"}
{"id": "25512985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25512985", "title": "Institute for the Investigation of Communist Crimes in Romania", "text": "Institute for the Investigation of Communist Crimes in Romania\n\nThe Institute for the Investigation of Communist Crimes in Romania (Institutul de Investigare a Crimelor Comunismului în România) is a government-sponsored organization whose mission is to investigate the crimes and abuses conducted while Romania was under communist rule, prior to December 1989. Following the Romanian Revolution of 1989, Romania’s Communist government was overthrown and a democratic president was elected in May 1990. \n\nThe main objectives of the Institute are the gathering of data, documents and testimonies regarding all oppressive actions exerted by the system, and notifying the state’s criminal investigation departments. In addition, the Institute informs the public of the crimes, abuses and instigations to crime, conducted in the name of ‘class struggle’ by the powerful people within the communist system. The Institute is led by Marius Oprea, president, a University of Bucharest graduate with a PhD in history who is an archeologist and historian.\n\nThe institute is a member organisation of the Platform of European Memory and Conscience.\n\nAccording to a 2006 report presented to Romanian President Traian Băsescu, up to one million people were killed or persecuted by communist authorities in Romania. \n\nIn December 2009, France 24, the French-based news agency, reported on the Institute’s progress in documenting the communist crimes in Romania, including finding the buried remains of some of the many thousands of people alleged to have been murdered.\n\nThe Institute has cooperation agreements with the Institute of National Remembrance and the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, government agencies of Poland and the Czech Republic respectively tasked with the investigation of Nazi and Communist crimes.\n\n"}
{"id": "34689537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34689537", "title": "Jehuda L. Wallach", "text": "Jehuda L. Wallach\n\nJehuda Lothar Wallach (21 May 1921 in Haigerloch, Germany – 1 August 2008 in Tel-Aviv, Israel) was an Israeli military officer and military historian.\n\nThe son of Louis Wallach and his wife Minna Rothheimer, Jehuda Walllach attended school in Mannheim, Germany, before he emigrated at age fifteen with his parents in 1936 to the British Mandate for Palestine. After graduating from high school, he lived for some years in Beit Zera on the south shore of the Sea of Galilee, a kibbutz that had been founded nearly a decade earlier by immigrants from Austria and Germany. While in Beir Zera in 1940, he married Chava Turetzky, with whom he later had three children: Roni, Eliezer, and Uri.\n\nAs a boy, Wallach joined the Haganah, the Jewish paramilitary organization. During the Israel war of Independence, the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, Wallach was a battalion commander in the Givati Brigade and fought in the northern Negev . In 1949, he was appointed to command the Tenth Brigade and became one of the first army division commanders of the Israeli Defense Force. He later became a mechanized brigade commander and was head of the Israeli Army’s infantry training department. He left military service in 1960 to start his academic career, but during the Six Days War in 1967, he returned briefly to active service on the general staff. .\n\nHe attended the Hebrew University, where he earned his Bachelor of Arts degree in 1962. Going on to the University of Oxford in England, he earned his doctor of philosophy in 1965 with a thesis on “Clausewitz and Schlieffen: a study of the impact of their theories on the German conduct of the 1914–1918 and 1939–1945 wars, “ under the supervision of Professor N.H. Gibbs, Chichele Professor of the History of War.\nOn returning to Israel from Oxford in 1965, Wallach was appointed senior lecturer in military history at Tel Aviv University, where he was appointed associate professor in 1972 and professor in 1976. He was head of military history, a research fellow at the Institute of German History, and head of the School of History. In 1978, he became chairman of the Israeli Society for Military History and was a member of the Vienna International Investigation Commission that investigated the military career of Kurt Waldheim. He was a visiting professor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Georgetown University.\n\nHe was a recipient of the ALA Medal and, in 2003, Wallach was awarded the Yitzhak Sadeh Prize for Military Literature.\n\n"}
{"id": "168935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=168935", "title": "Liepāja", "text": "Liepāja\n\nLiepāja (pronounced ) (see other names) is a city in western Latvia, located on the Baltic Sea. It is the largest city in the Kurzeme Region and the third largest city in the country after Riga and Daugavpils. It is an important ice-free port. In 2017 population of Liepāja is 69,443 people.\n\nIn the 19th and early 20th century it was a favourite place for sea-bathers with the town boasting a fine park and many pretty gardens, and a theatre. Liepāja is however known throughout Latvia as \"City where the wind is born\", likely because of the constant sea breeze. A song of the same name () was composed by Imants Kalniņš and has become the anthem of the city. Its reputation as the windiest city in Latvia was strengthened with the construction of the largest wind farm in the nation (33 Enercon wind turbines) nearby.\n\nThe coat of arms of Liepāja was adopted four days after the jurisdiction gained city rights on 18 March 1625. These are described as: \"on a silver background, the lion of Courland with a divided tail, who leans upon a linden () tree with its forelegs\". The flag of Liepāja has the coat of arms in the center, with red in the top half and green in the bottom.\n\nIt is said that the first settlement at the location of modern Liepāja was known by the name \"Līva\" from the name of the river Līva on which Liepāja was located. The name was derived from the Livonian word \"Liiv\" meaning \"sand\". The oldest written text mentioning Līva village (\"Villa Liva\") is the treaty of bishop of Courland and the master of the Livonian Order dated 4 April 1253. In 1263, the Teutonic Order established a town which they called \"Libau\" in German. The Latvian name \"Liepāja\" was mentioned for the first time in 1649 by Paul Einhorn in his work \"Historia Lettica\". A Russian name from the time of the Russian Empire was or , although , a transliteration of Liepāja has been used since World War II.\n\nSome other names for the city include \"Liepoja\" in Lithuanian, \"Lipawa\" in Polish and (\"Libave\") in Yiddish.\n\nIt is said that the original settlement at the location of modern Liepāja was founded by Curonian fishermen from Piemare as \"Līva\", but Henry (Henricus Lettus) of Livonia, in his famous \"Chronicle\", makes no mention of the settlement. The Teutonic Order established a town which they called \"Libau\" here in 1263, followed by Mitau two years later. In 1418 the village was sacked and burned by the Lithuanians.\n\nDuring the 15th century, a part of the trade route from Amsterdam to Moscow passed through Līva, where it was known as the \"white road to \"Lyva portus\"\". By 1520 the river Līva had become too shallow for easy navigation, and development of the city declined.\n\nIn 1560, Gotthard Kettler loaned all the Grobiņa district, including Libau, to Albert, Duke of Prussia for 50,000 guldens. Only in 1609 after the marriage of Sofie Hohenzollern, Princess of Prussia, to Wilhelm Kettler did the territory return to the Duchy. During the Livonian War, Libau was attacked and burnt by the Swedes.\n\nIn 1625, Duke Friedrich Kettler of Courland granted the town city rights, which were affirmed by King Sigismund III of Poland in 1626, although under what legal authority Sigismund had is debatable. Under Duke Jacob Kettler (1642–1681), Libau became one of the main ports of Courland as it reached the height of its prosperity. In 1637 Couronian colonization was started from the ports of Libau and Ventspils (Windau). Kettler was an eager proponent of mercantilist ideas. Metalworking and ship building became much more developed, and trading relations developed not only with nearby countries, but also with Britain, France, the Netherlands and Portugal.\n\nIn 1697–1703 a canal was cut to the sea and a more modern port was built. In 1701, during the Great Northern War, Libau was captured by Charles XII of Sweden, but by the end of the war, the city had returned to titular Polish possession. In 1710 an epidemic of plague killed about a third of the population. In 1780 the first Freemasonry lodge, \"Libanons,\" was established by Provincial Grand Master Ivan Yelagin on behalf of the Provincial Lodge of Russia; it was registered as number 524 in the Grand Lodge of England.\n\nCourland passed to the control of the Russian Empire in 1795 during the third Partition of Poland and was organized as the Courland Governorate of Russia. Growth during the nineteenth century was rapid. During the Crimean War, when the British Royal Navy was blockading Russian Baltic ports, the busy yet still unfortified port of Libau was briefly captured on 17 May 1854 without a shot being fired, by a landing party of 110 men from HMS \"Conflict\" and HMS \"Amphion\".\n\nIn 1857 an Imperial Decree provided for a new railway to Libau, and the same year the engineer Jan Heidatel developed a project to reconstruct the port. In 1861–1868 the project was realized – including the building of a lighthouse and breakwaters. Between 1877–1882 the political and literary weekly newspaper \"Liepājas Pastnieks\" was published – the first Latvian language newspaper in Libau. In the 1870s the further rapid development of Russian railways, especially the 1871 opening of the Libava-Kaunas and the 1876 Liepāja–Romny Railways, ensured that a large proportion of central Russian trade passed through Libau. By 1900, 7% of Russian exports were passing through Libau. The city became a major port of the Russian Empire on the Baltic Sea, as well as a popular resort.\n\nOn the orders of Alexander III, Libau was fortified against possible German attacks. Fortifications were subsequently built around the city, and in the early 20th century, a major military base was established on the northern edge. It included formidable coastal fortifications and extensive quarters for military personnel. As part of the military development, a separate port was excavated for exclusively military use. This area became known as Kara Osta (War Port) and served military needs throughout the twentieth century.\n\nEarly in the twentieth century, the port of Libau became a central point of embarkation for immigrants traveling to the United States. By 1906 the direct ship service to the United States was used by 40,000 migrants per year. Simultaneously, the first Russian training school of submarine navigation was founded. In 1912 one of the first water aerodromes in Russia was opened in Libau. In 1913, 1,738 ships entered Libau, with 1,548,119 tones of cargo passing through the port. The population had increased from 10,000 to over 100,000 within about 60 years.\n\nFollowing the outbreak of The Great War the German cruiser SMS \"Magdeburg\" shelled Libau, while other vessels laid mines off the approaches to the port. Libau was soon occupied by the German Army, on 7 May 1915, and in memory of this event, a monument was constructed on Kūrmājas Prospect in 1916 (destroyed by Bolsheviks in 1919). Libau's local government issued its own money for a while in this period – \"Libaua rubles\". An advanced German Zeppelin base was constructed at Vaiņode, near Liepāja, with five hangars, in August 1915. On 23 October 1915, the German cruiser was sunk by the British submarine , west of Libau.\n\nWith collapse of Russia and the signing of the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk the occupying German forces had a quiet time but the subsequent collapse of German Empire and the Allied denunciation of the Brest-Litovsk Treaty changed everything. The Independence of Republic of Latvia was proclaimed in November 18, 1918 and the Latvian Provisional Government under Karlis Ulmanis was created. Bolshevik Russia now advanced into Latvian territory and met little resistance here. Soon the Provisional Government and remaining German units were forced to leave Riga and retreated all the way to Liepāja, but then the Red offensive stalled along the Venta river. A Latvian Soviet Republic was announced. Latvia now became the main theatre of Baltic operations for the remaining German forces in 1919. In addition, a \"Landeswehr\" was formed to work in conjunction with the German forces.\n\nIn Liepāja a coup organized by Germans took place on 16 April 1919 and Ulmanis government was forced to flee and was replaced by Andrievs Niedra. Ulmanis government found a shelter on steamship \"Saratov\" in Liepāja port. In May a British cruiser squadron arrived at Libau to support Latvian independence and requested the Germans to leave.\n\nDuring the war, the words of \"The Jäger March\" were written in Libau by Heikki Nurmio.\n\nThe German \"Freikorps\", having recaptured Riga from the Bolsheviks, departed in late 1919, and with some Polish assistance the Bolsheviks were driven out of the Latvian hinterlands in early 1920.\n\nDuring the interwar period Liepāja was the second major city in Latvia.\nIn an attempt to put Libau 'on the map', on 31 January 1922 the Libau Bank was founded with significant new capital, transforming the old Libau Exchange Bank which had belonged to the Libau Exchange Association, and it eventually became the fourth largest of Latvia's joint stock banks. However, when a Riga branch of the bank was opened, the business centre of gravity shifted from Liepāja so that by 1923 its Riga 'branch' was responsible for 90% of the turnover. The German consul in Liepāja reported at the time that \"Riga, the economic heart of the country, draws all business to itself.\" The Latvian government ignored the pleas of the Libau Exchange Association to frustrate this. In 1935 KOD () started to manufacture the light aircraft KOD-1 and KOD-2 at Liepāja. However it became evident in this year that trade with the new Soviet Union had virtually collapsed.\n\nThe ports and human capital of Liepāja and Ventspils were targets of Joseph Stalin. He signed the Molotov–Ribbentrop pact in part to gain control of this territory. When the Soviet Union occupied and annexed Latvia in 1940, it nationalized private property. Many thousands of former owners were arrested and deported to the gulag camps in Siberia.\n\nIn 1941 Liepāja was among the first cities captured by the 291st Division of Army Group North after Nazi Germany began Operation Barbarossa, its war against the Soviet Union. German Nazis and Latvian collaborators virtually exterminated the local Jewish population, which had numbered about 7,000 before the war. Film footage of an Einsatzgruppen execution of local Jews was taken in Liepāja. Most of these mass murders took place in the dunes of Šķēde north of the city. Fewer than thirty Jews survived in Liepāja by the end of the war.\n\nDuring the period 1944–1945, as the Soviet Union began its offensive to the Baltic Sea, Liepāja was within the \"Courland Pocket\". It was occupied by the Soviet army on 9 May 1945. Thousands of Latvians fled as refugees to Germany. The city had been devastated during the war, and most of the buildings and industrial plant were destroyed.\n\nOn 25–29 March 1949, the Soviet Union organized a second mass deportation to Siberia from Liepāja. In 1950 a monument to Stalin was erected on Station square (). It was dismantled in 1958 after the Party Congress that discussed his abuses.\n\nDuring 1953–1957 the city center was reconstructed under the direction of architects A. Kruglov and M. Žagare. In 1952–1955 the Liepāja Academy of Pedagogy building was constructed under the direction of A. Aivars. In 1960 the \"Kurzeme\" shopping centre was opened. During the Soviet administration, Liepāja was a closed city; even local farmers and villagers needed a special permit to enter it.\n\nThe Soviet military set up its Baltic naval base and nuclear weapon warehouses there; The Beberliņš sandpit was dug out to extract sand used for constructing underground warehouses. In 1967 the Soviets completely closed the port to commercial traffic. One third of the city was taken up with a Soviet naval base; its military staff numbered 26,000. The 14th Submarine Squadron of the USSR's Baltic Fleet (\"\", call sign \"Комплекс\") was stationed there with 16 submarines (Types: 613, 629a, 651); as was the 6th group of Rear Supply of the Baltic Fleet, and the 81st Design Bureau and Reserve Command Center of the same force.\n\nIn 1977 Liepāja was awarded the Order of the October Revolution for heroic defense against Nazi Germany in 1941. Five residents were awarded the honorary title Hero of Socialist Labor: Anatolijs Filatkins, Artūrs Fridrihsons, Voldemārs Lazdups, Valentins Šuvajevs and Otīlija Žagata. Because of the rapid growth of the city's population, a shortage of apartment houses resulted. To resolve this, the Soviet government organized development of most of the modern Liepāja districts: Dienvidrietumi, Ezerkrasts, Ziemeļu priekšpilsēta, Zaļā birze and Tosmare. The majority of these blocks were constructed of ferro-concrete panels in standard projects designed by the state Latgyprogorstroy Institute (\"\"). In 1986 the new central city hospital in Zaļa birze was opened. \nAfter Latvia regained independence after the fall of the Soviet Union, Liepāja has worked hard to change from a military city into a modern port city (again appearing on European maps after the secrecy of the Soviet period). The commercial port was re-opened in 1991, and in 1994 the last Russian troops left Liepāja. Since then, Liepāja has engaged in international co-operation, has been associated with 10 twin and partner cities, and is an active partner in several co-operation networks. Facilities are being improved. The city is the location of Latvia's largest naval flotilla, the largest warehouses of ammunition and weapons in the Baltic states, and the main supply centre of the Latvian army.\n\nAt the beginning of the 21st century, many ambitious construction projects were planned for the city, including a NATO military base, and Baltic Sea Park, planned as the biggest amusement park in the Baltic states. Most of the projects have not yet been realised due to economic and political factors. Liepāja's heating network was renovated with the cooperation of French and Russian companies: Dalkia and Gazprom, respectively. In 2006, Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands, a direct descendant of Jacob Kettler visited Liepāja. In 2010 the coal cogeneration 400 MW power plant was built in Liepāja with the support of the government.\n\nLiepāja enjoys a semi-continental climate noted as \"Dfb\" in the Köppen classification. The major factor influencing the weather in the region is the Baltic Sea, providing a relatively mild winter for its high latitude (although snowy) and a relatively cool summer. During the winter the sea around Liepāja is virtually ice-free. Although occasionally some land-fast ice may develop, it seldom reaches a hundred meters from the shore and does not last long before melting. The sea warms up fully only in the beginning of August, so the best bathing season in Liepāja is from August to September. Summers are more affected by the maritime climate than east-facing cities on similar latitudes in opposite Sweden, but winters are milder than inland areas to the east. Regular meteorological observations in the city have been conducted from 1857.\n\n\n\nLiepāja is situated on the coast of the Baltic Sea in the south-western part of Latvia. The westernmost geographical point of Latvia is located approximately to the south thus making Liepāja Latvia's furthest west city. Liepāja is situated between the Baltic Sea and Liepāja Lake with residential and industrial areas spreading north of the lake. The Trade Channel () connects the lake to the sea dividing the city into southern and northern parts, which are often referred to as the Old Town () and the New Town () respectively. The city center is located in the southern part and, although called the Old Town, is relatively more developed. Most of the administrative and cultural buildings are found here as well as the main leisure areas. Along the coast the city extends northwards until it reaches the Karosta Channel (). North of the Karosta Channel is an area called Karosta which is now fully integrated into Liepāja and is the northernmost district of the city. Liepāja's coastline consists of an unbroken sandy beach and dunes as does most of Latvia's coastline. The beach of Liepāja is not as exploited as other places (e.g. the Gulf of Riga, Jūrmala and Pärnu in Estonia) but also lacks the tourist infrastructure needed for a fashionable, modern resort.\n\nJūrmala Park (Seaside Park) is located in the western part of the city at the seaside. The park is long with a total area of 70 ha and is one of the largest planted parks in Latvia. It was developed at the end of the 19th century\nAt the end of Peldu Street are Latvia's largest drums – one of the objects of Liepāja's environmental design which reminds one that Liepāja is the music capital of Latvia.\nThe open-air concert stage Pūt, vējiņi! (Blow, wind, blow!) was built in 1964. It has been the venue for a good many concerts and festivals, with the festival \"Liepājas Dzintars\" (\"Amber of Liepāja\") being the most famous among them, as it could be regarded as the oldest rock festival of the former Soviet Union. It was held for the first time in 1968.\nAlongside the stage is an interesting building, the former Bath House built in 1902 and designed by Max Paul Bertschy. At the beginning of the 19th century Liepāja was a renowned health resort and the Russian tsar and his family had been visiting Liepāja. This all encouraged other aristocrats from Russia and Europe to spend their summers in Liepāja as well.\n\nIn the beginning of the 20th century, Libava fortress was the most expensive and ambitious project of the Russian army on the Baltic sea. The massive concrete fortifications with eight cannon batteries was built to protect the city and its population from German attacks. Secret underground passages of the fortress became the most famous Liepāja's urban legend.\n\n\nThe closest city to Liepāja is Grobiņa, located about away towards Riga. Other main cities in the region are Klaipėda (approx. to the south), Ventspils (approx. to the north) and Saldus (approx. to the east). The distance to Riga (the capital of Latvia) is about to the east. The nearest point to Liepāja across the Baltic sea is the Swedish island of Gotland approximately to the north-west. The distance to Stockholm is 216 nautical miles.\n\nLiepāja is rich in different architecture styles: wooden houses, Art Nouveau buildings, Soviet-era apartments and a number of green parks all contribute to the character of the city. The main areas of interest for tourists include the city center with its many churches, the Seaside park with white sandy beaches and the northern suburb of Karosta, a former secret military encampment which is now a major tourist attraction. Other areas of interest for tourists are Vecliepāja; Ezerkrasts, which is close to Liepāja lake; and the Karosta beaches with their picturesque blasted forts.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe urban transport network of Liepāja relies mainly on buses and minicoaches. there are 12 bus routes and 5 minibus routes in Liepāja. The city also has a single two-way tram line running through some parts of the city from north-east to south-west, which also provides a vital transport link. The tram line was founded after the opening of the first Liepāja power plant in 1899, which makes it the oldest electric tram line in the Baltic states; it is now operated by the municipal company Liepājas tramvajs. The Port of Liepāja has a wide water area and consists of three main parts. The Winter harbor is located in the Trade channel and serves small local fishing vessels as well as medium cargo ships. Immediately north of the Trade channel is the main area of the port, separated from the open sea by a line of breakwaters. This part of the port can accommodate large ships and ferries. Further north is Karosta harbor, also called Karosta channel, which was formerly a military harbor but is now used for ship repairs and other commercial purposes. Liepāja also welcomes yachts and other leisure vessels which can enter the Trade channel and moor almost in the center of the city. Liepāja has a railway connection to Jelgava and Riga and through them to the rest of Latvia's railway network. There is just one passenger station in the New town, but the railway extends further and links to the port. There is also a northward railway track leading to Ventspils, but in recent decades it has fallen into disuse for economic reasons. The railway provides the main means of delivering cargo to the port. Two main highways, the A9 and A11, connect the city and its port to the rest of the country. The A9 leads north-west towards Riga and central Latvia and the A11 leads south to the border with Lithuania and its only port Klaipėda and to Palanga International Airport. The city also hosts Liepāja International Airport, one of three international airports in Latvia; it is located outside the city limits, north of the Lake of Liepāja near Cimdenieki. The airport is serviced by charter flights and an Air Baltic connection to Riga International Airport.\n\nCommunication systems in Liepāja are well-developed. The city is connected to the global Internet by three optical lines owned by Lattelecom, TeliaSonera International Carrier and Latvenergo and a radio relay line owned by LVRTC. There are four Lattelecom telephone exchanges and the LVRTC TV station and tower, which transmits four national TV channels, two local TV channels — \"TV Dzintare\" and \"TV Kurzeme\" and six radio stations. It has two local cable TV operators with a total number of subscribers about 15000 and three local ISPs. The city also has its own amateur radio community and a citywide wireless video monitoring system. , digital terrestrial television is fully operational; mobile television and broadband wireless networks are ready for implementation. All four Latvian mobile operators have stable zones of coverage (GSM 900/1800, UMTS, 2100 CDMA450) and client service centers in Liepāja. The city also has fourteen post offices as well as DHL, UPS and DPD depots.\n\nIn the second half of the 20th century under Soviet rule Liepāja became an industrial city and numerous high technology plants were founded, including:\nAfter collapse of USSR's centrally planned economy, only some of these plants continue to operate.\n\nWithin Latvia Liepāja is well known mostly by coffee brand \"Liepājas kafija\", beer \"Līvu alus\" and sugar \"Liepājas cukurs\".\nIn 1997 the Liepaja Special Economic Zone was established for 20 years providing a low tax environment in order to attract foreign investments and facilitate the economic development of Liepāja, but investment growth remained slow due to a shortage of skilled labor force. The main industries in Liepāja are the steel producer Liepājas Metalurgs, building firm UPB and the underwear brand Lauma. The economy of Liepāja relies heavily on its port which accepts a wide range of cargo. The most notable companies working in Liepaja's port are Baltic Transshipment Center, Liepājas Osta LM, Laskana, Astramar and Terrabalt. After joining the European Union in 2004, most of Liepāja companies was faced with strict European rules and terse competition and was forced to stop production or to sell enterprises to European companies. In 2007 \"Liepājas cukurfabrika\" and \"Liepājas sērkociņi\" closed down; \"Līvu alus\", \"Liepājas maiznieks\" and \"Lauma\" have been sold to European investors.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLiepāja currently has one cinema, one theater (Liepāja Theatre), one puppet theater, and two regional newspapers (\"Kurzemes Vārds\" with a circulation of about 10,000 and \"Kursas Laiks\" with a circulation of about 6,500). The city also has several regional Internet portals. Web forums, blogs, computer games and social networking sites are very popular among young people.\n\nLiepāja is often called the capital of Latvian rock music. Many famous composers and bands have been inspired by Liepāja, including Līvi, Credo, 2xBBM and Tumsa. In the center of Liepāja there was the first Latvian Rock Café (now bankrupt) and the Latvian Musician's Walk of Fame. The oldest pop music festival in Latvia, Liepājas Dzintars was held in Liepāja from 1964 to 2006 presenting bands from Baltic states as well as internationally famous guests. Since 2011 the city has staged the LMT Summer Sound festival, an annual music festival with stages raised directly on the beach. It draws thousands of fans each year. Liepāja also hosts an Organ Music festival and the Piano Stars festival, organized by one of the country's two State Orchestras, the Liepāja Symphony Orchestra.\nThere is also Wind Orchestra Liepāja which was founded by Youth centrum and musical school of Emilis Melngailis. This orchestra also made a new tradition, it made international festival called Wind Rhythms which is widely known in between of eastern European wind orchestras.\n\nIn 1998 an ice hall was built in the city which has since hosted regular ice hockey games including two youth World championship games. HK Liepāja became champions of Latvian Hockey Higher League in 2015–16 season.\n\nIn Liepāja is also located Daugava Stadium and Olimpija Stadium – the home stadiums of FK Liepāja and tennis courts.\n\nOn 2 August 2008 a new multipurpose sports arena – Liepāja Olympic Centre was officially opened. It has been established as one of the most modern multipurpose sports and cultural complexes in Latvia. 18 000 m2 large area Liepāja Olympic center five floors located in a wide range of functions gyms for basketball, volleyball, floorball, table tennis, boxing, judo, Greco-Roman and free-fighting, as well as space for concerts, conferences, seminars, performances, banquets, contests, dances, meetings and celebrations. Liepāja Olympic center pool and SPA zone is the largest and most modern swimming pool and SPA center in Kurzeme district with a relaxation zone, water massage, bubble baths, three types of saunas, a water attraction zone for children and two swimming pools.\nGross floor area of the building is 3200 m2 on three levels: the 1st floor includes entrance hall, reception, cloakroom, beauty salon. On the second floor you will find changing rooms and massage rooms, but the swimming pools and SPA zone are located on the 3rd floor.\n\nLiepāja is home to the BK Liepājas Lauvas, a professional basketball team.\n\nThe city is also a place of international Rally Kurzeme and a chess tournament Liepājas Rokāde.\n\nLiepāja encourages tourism. The main attraction is the pristine Blue Flag beach with white sand and rolling dunes, but the city also offers a number of historical sites, including Protestant and Orthodox churches and the ruins of military fortifications from the times of the Russian Empire. A surprisingly well-preserved wooden hut was the residence of Russian tsar Peter the Great for some time while he was touring the region in 1697 during the Grand Embassy.\n\n\nWith 85,345 inhabitants in 2007, Liepāja is the third-largest city in Latvia. Its population has declined since the withdrawal of Soviet military forces; the last of which left in 1994. In addition, many ethnic Russians, emigrated to Russia in 1991–2000. More recent causes include economic migration to western European countries after Latvia joined the EU in 2004, and lower birth rates.\n\nAccording to the 2017 census, ethnic Latvians make up 55.5% of the population of Liepāja (in comparison, the proportion of native Latvians nationwide is 62.1%). Ethnic Russians make up 30.3% of the population.\n\nLiepāja has a number of churches. As elsewhere in central and western Latvia, Protestant churches, mostly Lutheran are predominant. Holy Trinity Cathedral houses the seat of the Lutheran Bishop of Liepāja. Other Lutheran congregations are St. Anne, Church of the Cross and Church of Luther. There are four Baptist congregations in the city, among them are St. Paul church and Church of Zion.\n\nOwing to the regional importance of Liepāja during the last decades of the Russian Empire, a number of Russian Orthodox churches were established in the city early in the twentieth century. Their congregations are chiefly drawn from the Russian-speaking population.\n\nThe Catholic faith is represented in Liepāja by a St. Joseph Cathedral - seat of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Liepāja, Catholic primary school and the Catholic centre. The structure of the Catholic centre was used to represent the Vatican in Expo 2000 in Hanover and was transferred to Liepāja after the event.\n\nOther Christian sects include Old Ritualists, Adventist, Pentecostal, Latter-day Saints and Jehovah's Witnesses, who have single congregations and churches.\n\nFourteen deputies and a mayor make up the Liepāja City Council. City's voters select a new government every four years, in June. The Council selects from its members the Chairman of City Council (also called City Mayor), the two Vice chairmans (Deputy Mayors) which are full-time positions. City Council also appoints the members of four standing committees, which prepare issues to be discussed in the Council meetings: Finance Committee; City Economy and Development Committee; Social Affairs, Health Care, Education and Public Order Committee; Culture and Sports Committee. The City of Liepāja had an operating budget of LVL 31 millions in 2006, more than half of which comes from income tax. Traditionally, political leanings in Liepāja have been right-wing, although only about 70% of the population have voting rights. In recent years the Liepāja Party has dominated the polls.\nThe party has an agreement with the Union of Greens and Farmers, the leading party in the Kučinskis cabinet.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLiepāja has wide educational resources. Most well-educated young people leave the city because of low wages and a lack of high-technology and prosperous firms. The city has 21 kindergartens, 8 Latvian language schools, 5 Russian language schools, one school with mixed language of education, 1 evening school, 2 music schools and two boarding schools. Interest education for children and youth is available in 8 municipal institutions: Children and Youth Centre, Youth Centre, Centre for Young Technicians, Art and Creation Centre \"Vaduguns\", Complex Sport School, Gymnastics School, Tennis Sports School, Sports School \"Daugava\" (football, track-and-field athletics) and Basketball Sports School.\n\nHigher and professional education in Liepāja represented by:\n\nLiepāja Central Library has six branches and audio record library. Literature fund consists of about 460,000 copies and online catalog. Average annual number of visitors – 25000.\n\n\n\nLiepāja is twinned with:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50094881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50094881", "title": "List of monuments and memorials to women's suffrage", "text": "List of monuments and memorials to women's suffrage\n\nWomen's suffrage refers to the right of a woman to vote in an election. This right was often not included in the original suffrage legislation of a state or country, resulting in both men and women campaigning to introduce legislation to enable women to vote. Actions included writing letters to newspapers and legislators, compiling petitions, holding marches and rallies and carrying out acts of violence. Women were on occasion arrested for these actions and held in jail, during which time some went on hunger strikes, refusing to eat for the duration of their incarceration.\n\nMonuments and memorials to women's suffrage have been constructed around the world in recognition of the bravery and strength of the women who campaigned for voting rights, and the achievement of having the legislation passed.\n\n"}
{"id": "56192313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56192313", "title": "List of renamed places in Eswatini", "text": "List of renamed places in Eswatini\n\nThis is a list of renamed places in Eswatini (Swaziland).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51849157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51849157", "title": "National Museum of Montserrat", "text": "National Museum of Montserrat\n\nThe National Museum of Montserrat is a small museum focusing on the history of Montserrat, Lesser Antilles.\n\nIt is located on the Main Road in Little Bay, and opens for visitors upon request.\n\nIt was openened in 2012.\n\nThere is no official website.\n\n"}
{"id": "947566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=947566", "title": "National Museum of Prehistory (Taiwan)", "text": "National Museum of Prehistory (Taiwan)\n\nThe National Museum of Prehistory (NMP; ) is located in Taitung City, Taitung County, Taiwan.\n\nIn 1980, during the construction of the South-Link Line, building work uncovered prehistoric remains on the Peinan Site (卑南遺址). Many slate coffins and artifacts were discovered, and after a proposal by the Taitung City Government, construction of Taitung Station was halted. For 10 years, a National Taiwan University-led team excavated the site and uncovered over 1,500 burials and tens of thousands of artifacts. The site is widely regarded as the most important site of the mid-Neolithic age in Taiwan, and was then later transformed into the Beinan Cultural Park.\n\nAn outdoor museum was proposed and approved in 1990. Trial operations began on July 10, 2001, and the museum officially opened on August 17, 2002.\n\nThe museum was designed by American architect Michael Graves and is situated on a parcel of land.\n\nThe museum is divided into several sections, including:\n\n\nThe museum is accessible within walking distance from Kangle Station of the Taiwan Railway Administration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2049749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2049749", "title": "Nationalist historiography", "text": "Nationalist historiography\n\nHistoriography is the study of how history is written. One pervasive influence upon the writing of history has been nationalism, a set of beliefs about political legitimacy and cultural identity. Nationalism has provided a significant framework for historical writing in Europe and in those former colonies influenced by Europe since the nineteenth century. According to the medieval historian Patrick J. Geary:\n\n[The] modern [study of] history was born in the nineteenth century, conceived and developed as an instrument of European nationalism. As a tool of nationalist ideology, the history of Europe's nations was a great success, but it has turned our understanding of the past into a toxic waste dump, filled with the poison of ethnic nationalism, and the poison has seeped deep into popular consciousness.\n\nAlthough the emergence of the nation into political consciousness is often placed in the nineteenth century, attempts by political leaders to craft new national identities, with their dynasty at the center, have been identified as early as the late Roman Empire. The Barbarian rulers of the successor states crafted these new identities on the basis of descent of the ruler from ancient noble families, a shared descent of a single people with common language, custom, and religious identity, and a definition in law of the rights and responsibilities of members of the new nation.\n\nThe eighteenth and nineteenth century saw the resurgence of national ideologies. During the French revolution a national identity was crafted, identifying the common people with the Gauls. In Germany historians and humanists, such as Johann Gottfried Herder and Johann Gottlieb Fichte, identified a linguistic and cultural identity of the German nation, which became the basis of a political movement to unite the fragmented states of this German nation.\n\nA significant historiographical outcome of this movement of German nationalism was the formation of a \"Society for Older German Historical Knowledge\", which sponsored the editing of a massive collection of documents of German history, the \"Monumenta Germaniae Historica\". The sponsors of the \"MGH\", as it is commonly known, defined German history very broadly; they edited documents concerning all territories where German-speaking people had once lived or ruled. Thus, documents from Italy to France to the Baltic were grist for the mill of the \"MGH\" editors.\n\nThis model of scholarship focusing on detailed historical and linguistic investigations of the origins of a nation, set by the founders of the \"MGH\", was imitated throughout Europe. In this framework, historical phenomena were interpreted as they related to the development of the nation-state; the state was projected into the past. National histories are thus expanded to cover everything that has ever happened within the largest extent of the expansion of a nation, turning Mousterian hunter-gatherers into incipient Frenchmen. Conversely, historical developments spanning many current countries may be ignored, or analysed from narrow parochial viewpoints.\n\nThe difficulty faced by any national history is the changeable nature of ethnicity. That one nation may turn into another nation over time, both by splitting (colonization) and by merging (syncretism, acculturation) is implicitly acknowledged by ancient writers; Herodotus describes the Armenians as \"colonists of the Phrygians\", implying that at the time of writing clearly separate groups originated as a single group. Similarly, Herodotus refers to a time when the \"Athenians were just beginning to be counted as Hellenes\", implying that a formerly Pelasgian group over time acquired \"Greekness\". The Alamanni are described by Asinius Quadratus as originally a conglomerate of various tribes which acquired a common identity over time. All these processes are summarized under the term ethnogenesis.\n\nIn ancient times, ethnicities often derived their or their rulers' origin from divine or semi-divine founders of a mythical past (for example, the Anglo-Saxons deriving their dynasties from Woden; see also Euhemerism). In modern times, such mythical aetiologies in nationalist constructions of history were replaced by the frequent attempt to link one's own ethnic group to a source as ancient as possible, often known not from tradition but only from archaeology or philology, such as Armenians claiming as their origin the Urartians, the Albanians claiming as their origin the Illyrians, the Georgians claiming as their origin the Mushki, or Hindu nationalists claiming as the origin of their religion the Indus Valley Civilization (see Indigenous Aryans (India))—all of the mentioned groups being known only from either ancient historiographers or archaeology.\n\nNationalist ideologies frequently employ results of archaeology and ancient history as propaganda, often significantly distorting them to fit their aims, cultivating national mythologies and national mysticism. Frequently this involves the uncritical identification of one's own ethnic group with some ancient or even prehistoric (known only archaeologically) group, whether mainstream scholarship accepts as plausible or reject as pseudoarchaeology the historical derivation of the contemporary group from the ancient one. The decisive point, often assumed implicitly, that it is possible to derive nationalist or ethnic pride from a population that lived millennia ago and, being known only archaeologically or epigraphically, is not remembered in living tradition.\n\nExamples include Kurds claiming identity with the Medes, Albanians claiming as their origin the Illyrians, Bulgarians claiming identity with the Thracians, Iraqi propaganda invoking Sumer or Babylonia, Georgians claiming as their origin the Mushki, Hindu nationalists claiming as their origin the Indus Valley Civilization — all of the mentioned groups being known only from either ancient historiographers or archaeology. In extreme cases, nationalists will ignore the process of ethnogenesis altogether and claim ethnic identity of their own group with some scarcely attested ancient ethnicity known to scholarship by the chances of textual transmission or archaeological excavation.\n\nHistorically, various hypotheses regarding the \"Urheimat\" of the Proto-Indo-Europeans has been a popular object of patriotic pride, quite regardless of their respective scholarly values:\n\nNationalism was so much taken for granted as the \"proper\" way to organize states and view history that nationalization of history was essentially invisible to historians until fairly recently. Then scholars such as Ernest Gellner, Benedict Anderson, and Anthony D. Smith made attempts to step back from nationalism and view it critically. Historians began to ask themselves how this ideology had affected the writing of history.\n\nSpeaking to an audience of anthropologists, the historian E. J. Hobsbawm pointed out the central role of the historical profession in the development of nationalism:\nMartin Bernal's much debated book \"Black Athena\" (1987) argues that the historiography on Ancient Greece has been in part influenced by nationalism and ethnocentrism. He also claimed that influences by non-Greek or non-Indo-European cultures on Ancient Greek were marginalized.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7192391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7192391", "title": "Naval heraldry", "text": "Naval heraldry\n\nNaval heraldry is a form of identification used by naval vessels from the end of the 19th century onwards, after distinguishing features such as figureheads and gilding were discouraged or banned by several navies.\n\nNaval heraldry commonly takes the form of a badge, seal, crest, or coat of arms designed specifically for a ship (or a series of ships bearing the same name), which in Commonwealth navies takes the form of a large plaque, referred to as the ship's badge, mounted on the superstructure of the ship, and in the United States Navy is known as the ship's seal or ship's crest, and is primarily found on crew uniform patches. An item of naval heraldry is seen as the identifying logo of the vessel, and is commonly reproduced on hats, stationery, trophies, souvenirs, and gifts related to the ship. In many navies, the ship's badge is also displayed on the tampions - the covers for the gun muzzles.\n\nThe naval heraldric tradition follows the heraldic traditions of the country, with some distinctive variations.\n\n\"Note: Although ships are commonly referred to in this article, identical or similar forms of heraldry are used for bases and facilities, organisational divisions, and land-based naval units.\"\n\nThe system of naval heraldry used by the Portuguese Navy was established and regulated in 1972, being slightly reviewed by an ordinance of February 18, 2010. \n\nThe coats of arms consist of a round tip shield (Portuguese shield), topped by a naval crown and under which is placed a scroll with the motto or the name of the body or unit. A scroll with the war cry of the unit can be placed above the naval crown. The coat of arms may also include tenants or supporters, trophies and decorations. A coat of arms can also be used as a badge, in which case an entirely round shield is used, surrounded by a branch of laurel on the right and by a branch of oak on the left.\n\nThe following bodies and units are entitled to the use of coat of arms:\n\nThe coats of arms of the flag officers consist of the shield of the body or unit they command, replacing the naval crown for a helmet with a crest. The heraldic rank insignia of the officer (consisting of one or two anchors) is placed under the shield.\n\nThe commands and the units of the Portuguese Navy are also entitled to the use of heraldic flags, that - depending on the type of unit - can be in the form of a standard, a guidon or a pennon.\n\nAn item of naval heraldry in the Royal Australian Navy (RAN) is referred to as a \"ship's badge\", although the incorrect \"ship's crest\" is sometimes used. Initially, the badges were designed and assigned to ships by the Royal Navy. After World War II, an Australian body, the Badges, Names and Honours Committee, was created to take responsibility for creating RAN ships' badges. At the first meeting, it was decided that all RAN badges would follow the Royal Navy format: a circle of rope in which the individual design would be placed, capped by a naval crown and a scroll with the ship's name. A second, longer scroll was located below the rope circle for the ship's motto. To identify the ship as Australian, the badge included a boomerang between the rope circle and motto scroll. The design was revised soon after to also incorporate a nulla nulla and a stone axe, intertwined with the boomerang.\n\nInitially, there were gaps between the naval crown, name scroll, and rope circle. The name and motto scrolls were intended to be light blue with black lettering, although in practice they were painted dark blue, making the text hard to read. In 1964, the gaps between the crown, scroll, and circle were closed up, and the scrolls were changed to black with gold edging and lettering. The lettering style was also simplified. In 1970, a minor change was made to the naval crown, with one of the pennants on top of the sails altered to point left instead of right. Another minor change was made to the crown in 1974, with the curvature of the sails altered. In 1975, the weapons below the rope circle were reorganised so the nulla nulla and axe were superimposed over the boomerang, and were redrawn slightly: one of the major changes being thicker hafts on the crossed weapons.\n\nShip's badges are used equally by the RAN for ships, shore establishments, and organisations within the RAN. The standard badge measures , with the rope circle having a diameter of from the outside edge and from the inside edge. \"Boat's badges\" were created for small craft belonging to a ship: the weapons and motto are omitted. Boat's badges are either or in diameter. Following the introduction of \"Attack\" class patrol boats and \"Oberon\" class submarines into the RAN fleet in the early 1960s, a scaled-down badge design was created for all commissioned ships of less than in length and all submarines, measuring but with no other modifications. For the patrol boats, it was decided that a full-size badge was not appropriate for such small ships. The reduced size for submarines was a practical necessity: the badge had to fit through the external hatch, as it was only displayed on the fin while in port.\nFor non-commissioned units and establishments, an altered badge design was used. The first establishment to wear a non-commissioned badge was the RAN/RAAF Australian Joint Anti-Submarine School (AJASS) in 1967. Being a joint unit, it was decided that the badge design would be based on the RAAF unit badge, with a double circle of gold rope surrounding the collar on which the unit name was written, but with an alteration in colouring to the black and gold system used on the scrolls of ships' badges. The royal crown was used instead of the naval crown. The badge entered use with all non-commissioned RAN units, such as the dockyards, naval police, and administrative divisions. In 1979, all of the altered badges (excluding the joint-operated AJASS) were changed from the royal crown to the naval crown.\n\nShips in the Royal Canadian Navy receive badges, specifically designed for each ship. Using a circular design, they are topped with the naval crown and surrounded by a gold rope. Three maple leaves at the bottom of the rope circle distinguish Canadian badges from those of other Commonwealth navies.\n\nDuring World War II, the number of ships being built and commissioned outstripped the ability of a central authority to design and approve. Local authority to the commanding officers of the ships resulted in humorous and risque badges, including some cartoon characters. These badges are not considered to be official.\n\nCurrently, all badges are reviewed by the Director of Ceremonial and recommended to the Governor General.\n\nCFB Esquimalt Naval & Military Museum has an extensive collection of official Canadian naval ship, naval establishments and naval air unit badges 1910-1948. Lieutenant-Commander (Ret'd) David J. Freeman heads the Badge Project, capturing photographic or digital images of all the badges worn by HMC ships before 1948, and is in the process of completing a book on this subject.\n\nIt is customary for each individual ship and other units in the Royal Norwegian Navy to receive an individually designed coat of arms. These coats of arms follow the Norwegian heraldic tradition of being very simple in design. They often feature only one colour, one metal and one motive. They all have the same shield shape and are surrounded by a rope. The shield is surmounted by the heraldic Crown of Norway atop the ship's name.\n\nThe design of the individual shield is often inspired by connections the ship name gives. HNoMS \"Fridtjof Nansen\" is given a shield inspired by the family coat of arms of the Nansen family. Others are given shields based on the unit's function. The Naval Schools have a shield depicting a golden anchor and two silver torches of wisdom. All naval coats of arms have to be approved by the King of Norway.\n\nDuring the Age of Sail, ships were identified by figureheads and gilded carvings. However, the extravagance of these decorations began to reach the point of flamboyance, and an Admiralty directive in the early 18th century restricted the amount that could be spent, and eventually banned it outright.\n\nShips' badges first appeared in the 1850s, as identification markings on the stationery used by some Royal Navy ships. These marks were quickly used to mark the boats assigned to a ship, to aid crew in finding their boat at a dark or crowded wharf. The creation of badges was haphazard, and eventually came into use for the ships themselves. In 1918, Charles ffoulkes, the curator of the newly established Imperial War Museum was asked by the commanding officer of HMS \"Tower\" to design a badge for his ship. He quickly received requests to create badges for other Royal Navy vessels, and on 10 December 1918, ffoulkes was appointed the Admiralty advisor on heraldry. Shortly prior to this, a Ships' Badge Committee had been established to regulate the creation and use of ships' badges.\n\nIn 1919 the badges were standardized as four shapes: Circular (Battleships & Battle Cruisers), Pentagonal (Cruisers), Shield (Destroyers) and Diamond (all other types and shore establishments).\n\nTesting was carried out to ensure that the badges were designed appropriately to identify ships. Cardboard mockups were created, gilded, and installed on a police launch, which was observed on patrol of the Thames by a captured German submarine moored outside Westminster Palace. It was decided to use different shapes to identify different types of vessel: circles for battleships, pentagons for cruisers, 'U'-shaped shields for destroyers, and diamonds for auxiliary units, including depot ships, small war vessels, and aircraft carriers.\n\nIn 1940, the designs for all ships were standardised to a circular design. This was primarily due to wartime shortages, although another factor was to eliminate difficulties caused when a ship was commissioned with a previously-used name but was a different type of vessel, requiring the badge to be redesigned for the new shape. At the same time, the use of scaled-down badges for a ship's boats was suspended, and as of 2000 has not been resumed. After the war, the pentagonal badge shape was assigned to Royal Fleet Auxiliary vessels, and the diamond to commissioned shore bases. Before World War II, the design of badges for ships in other Commonwealth navies was the responsibility of the Royal Navy Ships' Badge Committee, but this responsibility was assigned to the relevant nations after the war.\n\nShips' badges are reused along with the ship name. When the Queen approves the name of a new ship she will also approve the new ship's badge, which may have changed if the shape needs to change.\n\nHMS \"Chatham\" was a ship serving in the Royal Navy with an original badge, since none of the previous \"Chatham\"s bore a badge.\n\nA few ships of the South African Navy adopted badges during World War II, but they appear to have been unofficial. Only one, that of the reserve base HMSAS \"Unitie\", conformed to the Royal Navy pattern of enclosing the badge in a 'U'-shaped frame of golden cable, ensigned of a naval crown resting on a name plaque.\n\nBadges were formalised after the war, the Royal Navy model being followed. At first, badges were diamond-shaped, but after a few years they were changed to circular frames. \"Unitie\" retained her shield-shaped badge, and in the 1980s, pentagonal badges were introduced for Navy Headquarters and the headquarters of the regional commands. The naval crown was replaced by the red lion crest of the national coat of arms in 1954, and this in turn was replaced by the secretary-bird crest of the new national arms in 2002.\n\nWhere ships and shore units are named after provinces and towns, their badges incorporate elements of the provincial or civic arms, for example the ox-wagon in the badge of the frigate SAS \"Transvaal\". Those named after historical personalities incorporate their namesakes' personal coats of arms, or elements of their arms, in their badges, for example the shield of the Van Riebeeck arms in the badge of the destroyer SAS \"Jan van Riebeeck\". For some categories of ships, including the \"Daphné\"-class submarines, Minister-class strike craft, and River-class minehunters, standard badges were designed, which were then differenced to identify individual vessels. The submarines' badges depicted a trident (emblem of the submarine branch) surmounted by a lozenge displaying the arms of the lady after whom the vessel was named. The strike craft badges depict a Viking longboat in full sail, with elements of the arms of the cabinet minister after which the ship was named on the sail. The minehunters' badges depict a bridge across a river, with an additional device above the bridge alluding to the name of the river.\n\nBadges are designed and approved by the South African National Defence Force's heraldry section, and registered at the Bureau of Heraldry to provide legal protection against misuse.\n\nIt is the custom in the United States Navy (USN) for ships, bases and other commands to receive an individually designed heraldic emblem. Due to heraldic traditions in the U.S., these emblems usually take the form of \"seals\" or \"crests\"; the terms are used often interchangeably, although the emblems are different. These items of naval heraldry are most commonly found on uniform patches for the ship's crew; unlike ships in Commonwealth navies, which display their symbols on plaques and battle honor boards fixed to the superstructure of the ship, USN ships are not allowed to paint or otherwise fix the ship's heraldry to the exterior of the ship.\n\nFrom World War I to the beginning of World War II, some U.S. Navy ships had these insignia, but World War II brought them into general use. Some designs were created by the ship's personnel, while others were commissioned by professional artists. The Korean War saw another upsurge in interest in crests and coats of arms. In the 1950s and 1960s, OPNAVINST 5030.2B encouraged ships to design their own crests, and laid out the procedure for receiving official approval.\n\nToday, the prospective commanding officers of new ships are responsible for designing the crests and submitting them for approval. They have great leeway in determining the design, and may optionally use the services of the U.S. Army's heraldry branch. Seals for destroyers tend to be oval in shape, whereas seals for submarines and aircraft carriers tend to be circular. Littoral combat ship and aircraft carrier crests also tend to feature a profile illustration of the ship on the crest, whereas destroyer crests do not.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34047945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34047945", "title": "Operation Black Vote", "text": "Operation Black Vote\n\nOperation Black Vote (OBV) is non-partisan and not-for-profit national organisation that was established in 1996 to address the Black British and ethnic minority democratic deficit. Focusing on voter registration, lobbying politicians and mentoring schemes, OBV aims to inspire black and minority ethnic communities to engage with public institutions to address the perceived race inequalities in areas including education, health and employment.\n\nBetween 1994 and 1996 Black communities were subject to severe social and political pressure.\nThe New York-based Human Rights Watch identified Britain as the country with the highest incidence of racial attacks in Europe. Research at Southampton University by law professor Lawrence Lustgarden showed that Britain jails more Black people per head of population than the USA.\n\nIn early 1996, with the last date for a General Election 18 months away - Black volunteers at Charter88 and activists at The 1990 Trust began exploring ways of using the most important event in Britain's political calendar to raise the concerns of the Black community.\n\nOBV began by collating political and demographic data in marginal constituencies - and soon OBV realised that the Black vote was potentially immensely powerful. In over 50 seats the number of African, Asian and Caribbean voters was greater than its marginality. In another 50, Black numbers were such that OBV had the potential to play a significant role in any closely fought contest.\n\nA call to action would have a solid base and an immediate focus - the power of the Black vote at the coming General Election. The challenge was to persuade the Black community to recognise that power and inspire them to participate - and to serve notice on the political parties that they ignored the Black electorate at their peril.\nOperation Black Vote was launched in July 1996. In just ten months OBV held over 100 meetings at schools, colleges, community centres, local party offices and town halls up and down the country.\nOBV distributed over 250,000 voter registration cards; 500,000 leaflets in six different languages, and 50,000 posters.\n\nIn comparison to any election before 1997, the positive attention the Black electorate received from the major parties was unprecedented. And the party leaders led from the front.\n\nIn a speech that he would later make a point of sending to OBV, the then Prime Minister John Major said, \"I don't pretend that the prospect for the young Black man in Brixton is yet as open as it is to the young white man in the Home Counties. It clearly isn't. But OBV must try and make it so.\" Liberal Democrats leader Paddy Ashdown pledged to make the House of Commons more representatives, and described it as \"a white, male, middle-class club.\" And Tony Blair emphasised his lifetime commitment \"to fight against racism.\"\nAt constituency level, MPs and candidates across the country took part in OBV Question Time meetings. For the first time in British political history, every candidate OBV invited came to listen to the Black electorate and argue their case.\n\nThere is little to no quantitative data on how many more Black people registered to vote and/or voted in 1997 as a direct consequence of OBV.\n\nPolitical rhetoric is easy and instant; translating it into reality is the hard work of years. The disillusion of so many people - particularly young Black men - would not and could not be addressed in the few months before the election.\n\nOperation Black Vote’s work covers four main areas:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17408349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17408349", "title": "Ophel", "text": "Ophel\n\nThe Ophel ( \"‘ōp̄el\"), also Graecised to \"Ophlas\", Is the biblical name apparently given to a certain part of a settlement or city that is elevated from its surroundings, and probably means fortified hill or risen area. In the Hebrew Bible the Ophel refers to a specific part in two cities: the extended City of David (the oldest part of Jerusalem), as in the Book of Chronicles and the Book of Nehemiah (, ), and at Samaria, the ancient capital of the Kingdom of Israel, mentioned in the Second Book of Kings (). The Mesha Stele is the only extra-biblical source using the word, also in connection to a fortified area.\n\n\"Ophel\", with the definite article \"ha-ophel\", is a common noun known from two Ancient Semitic languages, Biblical Hebrew and Moabitic. As a place name or description it appears several times in the Hebrew Bible and once on the Mesha Stele from Moab. There is no ultimate agreement as to its exact meaning, and scholars have long been trying to deduce it from the different contexts it appears in. When used as a common noun, it has been translated as \"tumors\" (), and in a verbal form it was taken to mean \"puffed up\" (), this indicating that the root might be associated with \"swelling\". When referring to a place, it seems from the context to mean either hill, or fortified place, or a mixture of the two, i.e., a fortified hill, and by considering the presumed meaning of the root, it might signify a \"bulging or rounded\" fortification.\n\nBiblical verses in which it has been translated either as \"fortified place \" (tower, citadel, stronghold etc.) or \"hill\" are , 2 Chronicles 27:3 and 33:14, , Nehemiah 3:26 and 11:21, and . On the Mesha Stele, named for the king of Moab who erected it, Mesha says: \"I built Q-R-CH-H (? Karhah), the wall of \"ye'arim\" [forests], and the wall of \"ophel\" and I built its gates and I built its towers.\" Here \"ophel\" is commonly translated as \"citadel\".\n\nThe location of the Ophel of the Hebrew Bible is easy to make out from the references from and : it was on the eastern ridge and south of the Temple, and probably near the middle of the southeastern hill (i.e., the eastern ridge segment starting below the saddle south of the Herodian Temple Mount, and stretching down to the King's Garden). Therefore, the use of the term \"Ophel ridge\" for the entire southeastern hill including the saddle area seems to be wrong.\n\nTwo kings of Judah, Jotham and Manasseh, are described to have massively strengthened the fortifications at \"Ophel\" (2 Chronicles 27:3 and 33:14), leading to the conclusion that this must have been an area of great strategic importance, and either very close to or identical with the \"stronghold of Zion\" conquered and reused by King David ().\n\nJosephus, writing about the First Jewish–Roman War (66–70 CE), uses the Graecised form \"Ophlas\", and places it slightly higher up the eastern ridge from the First Temple-period Ophel, touching the \"eastern cloister of the temple\" (Jewish Wars, V, iv, 2 ) and in the context of \"the temple and the parts thereto adjoining, ... and the ... 'Valley of the Cedron'\" (Jewish Wars, V, iv, 1 ).\n\n"}
{"id": "5796599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5796599", "title": "Otto Hauser", "text": "Otto Hauser\n\nOtto Hauser (April 12/27, 1874 in Wädenswil – June 14/19, 1932 in Berlin) was a Swiss prehistorian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36877782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36877782", "title": "P. S. O'Hegarty", "text": "P. S. O'Hegarty\n\nPatrick Sarsfield O'Hegarty (, 29 December 1879 – 17 December 1955) was an Irish writer, editor and historian and a former member of the Supreme Council of the Irish Republican Brotherhood.\n\nHe was born at Carrignavar, County Cork, to John and Katherine (née Hallahan) Hegarty. His parents' families had emigrated to the United States after the potato famine, and his parents married in Boston. His father was a member of the IRB.\n\nHe was educated at North Monastery CBS, where he formed an enduring friendship with Terence MacSwiney. In 1888 his father died of tuberculosis, aged 42. Left destitute, his mother pawned her wedding ring to pay for an advertisement looking for work, and eventually became a cook.\n\nHe joined the postal service in Cork in 1897. Along with J. J. Walsh he played in the Head Post Office hurling team. He joined the IRB and represented Munster on the IRB Supreme Council. He started writing for Arthur Griffith's \"United Irishman\" and the \"Shan van Vocht\", a periodical established by Alice Milligan and Ethna Carbery.\n\nHe served at the main Postal Sorting Office in Mount Pleasant, London, from 1902 to 1913. Along with J. J. Walsh he spent three years at King's College, studying for the Secretary's Office. While O'Hegarty succeeded in his studies, Walsh did not, and returned to Ireland. O'Hegarty became the IRB representative for Southeast England and joined the Gaelic League and Sinn Féin, and became a strong advocate of the Irish language. In 1905, he was elected secretary of the local Dungannon Club, which drew in as members Robert Lynd, Herbert Hughes and George Cavan. In 1907, as Sinn Féin's London Secretary, he approved and signed the membership card of Michael Collins; he later became friend and mentor to Collins. He had to return to Ireland for a break due to overwork in 1909 and give up some of his work for the Gaelic League. However, he took over as editor of the IRB publication, \"Irish Freedom\". It was in this publication that he famously wrote, concerning the visit of King George V to Ireland in 1911: \"Damn your concessions, England: we want our country!\" In 1912, at the height of the Playboy riots, he wrote four articles entitled \"Art and the Nation\" in \"Irish Freedom\", which took a very liberal and inclusionist approach to Anglo-Irish literature and art in general, but invoked the wrath of many of the paper's readers.\n\nIn 1913 he was re-posted to Queenstown (present-day Cobh) as postmaster. He continued editing nationalist newspapers such as \"Irish Freedom\" (founded in 1910, it was suppressed in December 1914 on account of its seditious content) and \"An tÉireannach\" (1913) and joined the Irish Volunteers. At the outbreak of war he was moved to Shrewsbury, probably on account of his political activities. In 1915 he married Wilhelmina \"Mina\" Smyth, a schoolteacher and suffragist, and was then moved to Welshpool, Montgomeryshire. In the aftermath of the 1916 Rising, he was opposed to physical force. In 1918 he refused to take the British Oath of Allegiance and resigned his position in the Post Office.\n\nO'Hegarty felt that the Abbey Theatre was \"doing good for Ireland\" and supported W. B. Yeats against attacks from Arthur Griffith and like-minded Nationalists. He opposed the extremist views of D. P. Moran, who sought a Roman Catholic Irish-speaking Ireland.\n\nHe was Secretary of the Irish Department of Post and Telegraphs from 1922 to 1945. He was elected a member of the Irish Academy of Letters in 1954.\n\nHis son, Seán Ó hÉigeartaigh, was a founder of the Irish-language publishing house Sáirséal agus Dill. His daughter Gráinne, a harpist, married Senator Michael Yeats, son of W. B. Yeats.\n\n\nO’Hegarty’s papers were acquired by the Kenneth Spencer Research Library of Kansas University. This includes an outstanding collection of books, pamphlets and periodicals of W. B. Yeats.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56548170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56548170", "title": "Park Street riot", "text": "Park Street riot\n\nThe Park Street riot occurred in Park Street and George Street Bristol, England, on 15 July 1944 when a large number of black US servicemen (GIs) refused to come back to their camps after US military policemen (MPs) arrived to end a minor fracas. More MPs was sent, up to 120 in total, and Park Street was closed with buses. In subsequent confrontations an MP was stabbed, a black GI was shot dead, and several others were wounded.\n\nDuring World War II, African-Americans formed 10 per cent of US Army servicemen in Britain, a total of about 150,000 in 1944. Most were in labour companies, engineers, stevedores and transport units. Many were based in the Bristol area because of the docks there. They had their barracks in Bedminster, Brislington, Henleaze, Shirehampton and the Muller Orphanage at Ashley Down.\n\nThe US Armed Forces were still racially segregated, and the soldiers of the labour companies were almost entirely black, while most of their officers were white, as were the MPs. Military commanders tended to treat these service units as \"dumping grounds\" for less competent officers, and leadership in the labour companies was poor.\n\nThe British government did not approve of segregation but decided they could not interfere in the treatment of African-American people enlisted in the US army. The British authorities would not organise segregated facilities nor enforce segregation in non-US Army facilities. In response the US Army administration encouraged separate days along the week for black and white troops to have leave passes. The US military actively developed a policy that involved the segregation of many facilities in Britain. Two separate Red Cross centres existed in Bristol: St George Street for coloured GIs; and Berkeley Square for whites.\n\nThere were frequent clashes between black and white GIs. A US survey of soldiers' mail during the war revealed that white troops were particularly indignant about the public association of white women with black soldiers, which was unremarkable in Britain.\n\nIn June 1943 a significant racial incident, the Battle of Bamber Bridge, led to one death, 7 wounded and 32 court martialled; this followed the riots in Detroit earlier that week. In September 1943 at Launceston in Cornwall there was another armed confrontation between black GIs and MPs which left two MPs wounded; 14 black GIs were court martialled.\n\nThe days before the Park Street Riot saw an increase in tension between the black and white GIs. On 10 July at the Muller Orphanage, where some of the black troops were billeted, several white paratroopers arrived. The black soldiers claimed that they were insulted and then beaten by the paratroopers.\n\nOn the night of 12–13 July the 545th Port Company, an all-black segregated unit that was billeted at Sea Mills, mutinied. On the morning of 13 July the company refused direct orders to report for duty and remained in the barracks. They demanded better treatment from their officers, better accommodation for the soldiers in the guardhouse, and a halt to the paratroopers chasing black GIs through the streets of Bristol. The mutiny ended the same evening, without violence. One black soldier, Robert Davis of 542nd Port Company was accused of inciting the mutiny, and was court martialled on 6 September 1944 in Newport. He was sentenced to hard labour for life.\n\nOn the evening of Saturday 15 July approximately 400 black GIs gathered in the area of Park Street. Some of them were accompanied by white British women and a US military policeman stopped them. This caused a minor disturbance which prompted the deployment of more policemen. In total 120 armed military policemen attended. The black soldiers were gathered to march back to the trucks that were to drive them to their barracks. The MPs tried to disarm some of them who had knives. The black soldiers refused to hand them over, their colleagues intervened and in the resulting confrontation one policeman was stabbed and his attacker shot dead. The MPs restored control by closing off the street with buses and shooting several GIs in the legs. Many black GIs were arrested and several were sent to the local hospital. A curfew was established in Bristol for many days afterwards.\n\n"}
{"id": "5237823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5237823", "title": "Peadar Ó Doirnín", "text": "Peadar Ó Doirnín\n\nPeadar Ó Doirnín (c. 1700 - 1769) was an Ulster Irish schoolteacher and Irish language poet and songwriter. \n\nÓ Doirnín is a celebrated eighteenth century Ulster poet. Along with Art Mac Cumhaigh, Cathal Buí Mac Giolla Ghunna and Séamas Dall Mac Cuarta, he was part of the Airgíalla tradition of poetry and song. His work is still alive in the tradition of north Leinster and south Ulster, although his authorship of nationally and internationally celebrated songs like \"Mná na hÉireann\" is little known. \n\nOther songs such as \"Úrchnoc Chéin mhic Cáinte\" make classic Gaelic appeals for a return to nature reminiscent of its contemporary Lon Doire an Chairn (a poem which attained new renown in the twentieth century under the title \"Blackbird of Derrycairn\" by Austin Clarke). Due to the sexual inferences of \"Úrchnoc Chéin mhic Cáinte\", Ó Doirnín, the master of a hedgeschool, was reportedly dismissed from his teaching job.\n\nWhen Ó Doirnín died at Forkill in 1769, his elegy was composed by Art Mac Cumhaigh. The poet, who is buried in Urney graveyard in north County Louth, is commemorated in the name of the Forkhill Peadar Ó Doirnín GAA club.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "82710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=82710", "title": "Protoplast (religion)", "text": "Protoplast (religion)\n\nA protoplast, from ancient Greek (\"prōtóplastos\", \"first-formed\"), in a religious context initially referred to the first human or, more generally, to the first organized body of progenitors of mankind in a creation story (as in Adam and Eve), or of surviving humanity after a cataclysm (as in Deucalion or Noah).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24891889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24891889", "title": "Punch-marked coins", "text": "Punch-marked coins\n\nPunch-marked coins are a type of early Coinage of India, dating to between about the 6th and 2nd centuries BC. It was of irregular shape.\n\nCoin finds in the Kabul hoard or the Shaikhan Dehri hoard in Pushkalavati have revealed numerous Achaemenid coins as well as many Greek coins from the 5th and 4th centuries BCE were circulating in the area, at least as far as the Indus during the reign of the Achaemenids, who were in control of the areas as far as Gandhara. In 2007 a small coin hoard was discovered at the site of ancient Pushkalavati (Shaikhan Dehri) in Pakistan. The hoard contained a tetradrachm minted in Athens circa 500/490-485/0 BCE, together with a number of local types as well as silver cast ingots. The Athens coin is the earliest known example of its type to be found so far to the east. \n\nAccording to Joe Cribb, these early Greek coins were at the origin of Indian punch-marked coins, the earliest coins developed in India, which used minting technology derived from Greek coinage. Daniel Schlumberger also considers that punch-marked bars, similar to the many punch-marked bars found in northwestern India, initially originated in the Achaemenid Empire, rather than in the Indian heartland:\n\nPunch-marked coins are a type of early coinage of India, dating to between about the 6th and 2nd centuries BCE. There are uncertainties regarding the actual time punch-marked coinage started in India, with proposals ranging from 1000 BCE to 500 BCE. However, the study of the relative chronology of these coins has successfully established that the first punch-marked coins initially only had one or two punches, with the number of punches increasing over time.\n\nThe first coins in India may have been minted around the 6th century BCE by the Mahajanapadas of the Indo-Gangetic Plain, and certainly before the invasion of Alexander the Great in the 4th century BCE. However, according to Joe Cribb, Indian punch-marked coins may only go back to the mid-4th century BCE or slightly earlier, and actually started with the punch-marked coinage of the Achaemenids in the Kabul/ Gandhara area.\n\nThe coins of this period were punch-marked coins called \"Puranas\", \"Karshapanas\" or \"Pana\". Several of these coins had a single symbol, for example, Saurashtra had a humped bull, and Dakshin Panchala had a Swastika, others, like Magadha, had several symbols. These coins were made of silver of a standard weight but with an irregular shape. This was gained by cutting up silver bars and then making the correct weight by cutting the edges of the coin.\n\nThey are mentioned in the Manu, Panini, and Buddhist Jataka stories and lasted three centuries longer in the south than the north (600 BCE – 300 CE).\n\nDuring the Mauryan period, punch-marked coins continued to be issued in large quantities. Similarly, the coinage of the Mauryan Empire was a of the punch-marked coinage of Magadha. Each coin contained on average 50–54 grains of silver depending on wear and 32 rattis in weight Manusmriti, and earlier coins are flatter than later coins. Punches on these coins count to 450 different types with the most common the sun and six-armed symbols, and various forms of geometrical patterns, circles, wheels, human figures, various animals, bows and arrows, hills and trees etc. Many are barely discernible for what they could be.\n\nThe basic coin is called the Karshapana (pana) in numismatic terms but the Arthashastra stated there are at least 4 denominations of silver coins in pana, ardhapana (half pana), pada (quarter pana) and ashta-bhaga, or arshapadika (one-eighth pana). But only the Karshapana is found. There are no issues found of the other denominations even though cut coins are found.\n\nPunch-marked coins are mentioned in the Manu, Panini, and Buddhist Jataka stories. They continued circulating in the North until approximately the beginning of the first century CE, but lasted three centuries longer in the South, i.e. until about 300 CE.\n\nIn the North, following the fall of the Maurya Empire and the increased influence of the Greco-Bactrians and Indo-Greeks, punch-marked coins were replaced by cast die-struck coins, as visible in the Post-Mauryan coinage of Gandhara.\n\n"}
{"id": "6764825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6764825", "title": "Radulph of Rivo", "text": "Radulph of Rivo\n\nRadulph of Rivo (also Radulph of Tongres, Radulph van der Beken, Raoul de Tongres, Radulphus de Rivo) was a Dutch Roman Catholic historian and liturgist (van der Beken is probably his birthname, as \"rivus\" usually stands for the Dutch \"beek\").\n\nHe was born about 1350 in Breda, in the present province of Noord Brabant (Netherlands). He studied in various parts of Europe: in 1362 in Italy, between 1367-1375 at the Paris Sorbonne university and Orléans, where he studied canon and civil law. In 1371 he was already subdeacon.\n\nIn 1377, as Canon of the chapter of Tongeren, he was granted the deanery of this institution by Gregory IX. He entered in this position only in 1383. Meanwhile, he returned to Italy. In 1381 he was in Rome, where he was taught Greek by Simon of Constantinople, titular Archbishop of Thebes (Greece). After 1390, he was replaced at Tongeren by a vice-dean. During this time, he joined the new University of Cologne (founded in 1388), where he became rector about 1397/1398. He made his last journey to Rome somewhat shortly before that date.\n\nIn 1398 he returned to Tongeren, where he resumed his duties as dean of the chapter. He was deducated to the maintenance of discipline during the disturbance caused by the Great Schism of the West. He exerted himself especially for the reform of the liturgy. He was a protector and guide of the Windesheim reform, as for instance at the Corsendonck abbey. Several of his works date from this period, while his liturgical writings were mainly composed during his second stay at Rome. He died on November 3, 1403 and was buried in the St.-Mary monastery church at Tongeren.\n\nBesides some works on Latin grammar, mention must be made of his Historia de rebus gestis trium pontificium Leodiensium, a chronicle of the bishops of Liège (published by Jean Chapeauville in 3 volumes, Liège, 1612–16).\n\nHis liturgical works are the most important and the best of his writings, especially for the history of the Breviary and the Mass. Here he displays a great spirit of piety, showing at the same time much critical ability, learning and wide reading. He is decidedly in favour of maintaining ancient Roman liturgical customs and rejects recent modifications.\n\nAmong his writings especially notable are:\n\nHis most important writings were published by Mohlberg in 1915.\n\n"}
{"id": "32907761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32907761", "title": "Reformation of Manners", "text": "Reformation of Manners\n\nThe Reformation of Manners was an ideological drive to bring religious discipline to English parishes between the late 1600s and the early 1700s, and later in the 1780s, with William Wilberforce as a major instigator. Following the sixteenth-century religious reformation in parts of England, Calvinism heavily influenced the governance of many parishes. These parishes were governed by a series of local presbyteries, a group of church elders that saw their duty in the regulation of morals in accordance with scriptural principles. Calvinist theology encouraged a dualistic distinction between the 'godly' and the 'reprobate' of the parish: it was thought that the 'better sort' of inhabitant should be responsible for policing and disciplining the behaviour of their 'vulgar' neighbours. In practice, the 'word of God' was brought to bear on communities through pastoral supervision, an enforced focus on scriptural education (see Free Grammar School)), attempts to increase literacy, mandatory repetition of catechisms and the suppression of many popular pastimes, including parish wakes, seasonal festivities, drinking and bear-baiting. This impulse is perhaps best exemplified in Richard Baxter's ministry over Kidderminster in Worcestershire between 1641 and 1660. Baxter, often referred to as 'the saint of the Puritans', had an exalted view of his ministerial office and pastoral duties, striving to bring moral discipline to his parishioners. Baxter's ministry is an extreme example but the Reformation of Manners was also manifested as a wider initiative in the church courts throughout England more generally. The seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, particularly, saw these courts take a leading role in enforcing the moral principles of the Anglican Church.\n\nWilliam Wilberforce was the instigator of the Second Reformation of Manners which began in 1787. While researching for a Bill he was going to introduce in Parliament, he became concerned at the large number of death sentences carried out in England at that time. Believing that if people were punished for small crimes,(such as swearing, gambling, or 'lewdness'), they would be less likely to drift into more serious crimes such as murder,he approached King George III. The King responded by issuing a Royal Proclamation in June 1787 urging people of honor and authority to set good examples, purposed to \"discount and punish all manner of vice, profaneness, and immorality, in all persons, of whatsoever degree or quality, within this our realm,\" prohibited gambling on the Lord's Day, declared that all people should attend church,that all persons who drank in excess, blasphemed, swore, cursed, were lewd or profaned the Lord's Day should be prosecuted, ordered that public gambling, disorderly houses. unlicensed places of entertainment, and publishers and vendors of loose and licentious books should be suppressed, and that the rules against commerce on Sunday should be enforced. Wilberforce started the \"Society for the Reformation of Manners\" also called the Proclamation Society the same year, its members committed to uphold the King's edict. 10 years later, he wrote a book, called \"A Practical View\", which was a call to people to return to the Christian faith. \n\n"}
{"id": "7833707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7833707", "title": "Roger Gaillard (historian)", "text": "Roger Gaillard (historian)\n\nRoger Gaillard (10 April 1923 – 2000) was a Haitian historian and novelist. Born in Port-au-Prince, Gaillard earned a philosophy degree at the University of Paris in France. He is best known for his multiple-volume chronicle of the United States' occupation of Haiti.\n\n"}
{"id": "323384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=323384", "title": "Shefa-'Amr", "text": "Shefa-'Amr\n\nShefa-ʻAmr, also Shfar'am (, Šafā ʻAmr, , Šəfarʻam) is an Arab city in the Northern District of Israel. In it had a population of , with a Sunni Muslim majority alongside large Christian and Druze minorities.\n\nPalmer writes that the name meant: \"The margin or edge of 'Amr. Locally and erroneously supposed to mean the healing of 'Amer (ed Dhaher),\n\nWalls, installations and pottery sherds from the Early Bronze Age IB and the Middle Bronze Age IIB Iron, Hellenistic and Roman periods have been excavated at Shefa-'Amr.\n\nSettlement has existed there without interruption since the Roman period, when it was one of the cities mentioned in the Talmud as containing the seat of the Jewish Sanhedrin. Decorated burial caves were documented by the Survey of Western Palestine in the late nineteenth century. They found the caves to be Christian tombs from the Byzantine era, dating to the 5th and 6th century CE. Greek inscriptions were also found.\n\nArcheological excavations of a cave and quarries revealed that they were used in the Roman and Byzantine eras. Shefa-'Amr contains Byzantine remains, including of a church and tombs.\n\nA salvage dig was conducted in the southern quarter of the old city exposing remains from five phases in the Late Byzantine and early Umayyad periods. Finds include a tabun, a pavement of small fieldstones, a mosaic pavement that was probably part of a wine press treading floor, a small square wine press, handmade kraters, an imported Cypriot bowl and an open cooking pot. Also discovered were glass and pottery vessels.\n\nUnder the Crusaders the place was known as \"Safran\", \"Sapharanum\", \"Castrum Zafetanum\", \"Saphar castrum\" or \"Cafram\". The Crusader built a fortress, used by the Knights Templar, in the village. At the foot of the castle was a fortified settlement with a church, inhabited either by local Christians or Crusaders. The village, then called \"Shafar 'Am\", was used by Saladin between 1190–91 and 1193-94 as a military base for attacks on Acre.\n\nBy 1229, the place was back in Crusader hands, and it was confirmed as such by Sultan Baybars in the peace treaty of 1271, and by Sultan Qalawun in 1283. Italian monk Riccoldo da Monte di Croce visited the village in 1287-88, and noted that it had Christian inhabitants. It apparently was under Mamluk control by 1291, as it was mentioned in that year when sultan al-Ashraf Khalil allocated the town's income to a charitable organization in Cairo.\n\nDuring early Ottoman rule in the Galilee, in 1564, the revenues of the village of Shefa-'Amr were designated for the new waqf of Hasseki Sultan Imaret in Jerusalem, established by Hasseki Hurrem Sultan (Roxelana), the wife of Suleiman the Magnificent. In the early decades of that century there had been a very small number of Jews mentioned, but none at the end of the century.\n\nA firman dated to 1573 mentioned that Shefa-'Amr was among a group of villages in the \"nahiya\" (sub district) of Akka which had rebelled against the Ottoman administration. By 1577, the village had accumulated an arsenal of 200 muskets. In the 1596 daftar, Shefa-'Amr was part of the \"nahiya\" of Akka with a population of 83 households (\"khana\"), and eight bachelors, all Muslims. The taxable produce comprised occasional revenues and goats and beehives. Its inhabitants also paid for the use or ownership of an olive oil press.\n\nIt was not until the 18th century that the village rose to prominence. At the beginning of the century the village was under control of Shaykh Ali Zaydani, the uncle of Zahir al-Umar and leading shaykh of lower Galilee. It is also known that there was a castle in the village at least as early as 1740. After Zahir al-Umar's rise to power in the 1740s, Ali Zaydani was replaced with his nephew, Uthman; a son of Zahir. After Zahir's death in 1775, Jazzar Pasha allowed Uthman to continue as the governor of Shefa-'Amr in return for a promise of loyalty and advance payment of taxes. Jazzar Pasha allowed the fortress to remain intact despite orders from Constantinople that it should be destroyed. Several years later Uthman was removed and replaced with Ibrahim Abu Qalush, an appointee of Jazzar Pasha.\n\nDuring this period Shefa-'Amr was a regional centre of some importance due to its location in the heart of the cotton-growing area and its natural and man-made defenses. The significance of cotton to the growth of Shefa-'Amr was fundamental. Tax returns for the village attest to the large returns expected of this crop. A definite indication of a Jewish presence in Shefa-'Amr was in the 18th century. A map by Pierre Jacotin from Napoleon's invasion of 1799 showed the place, named as \"Chafa Amr\".\n\nJames Finn reported wrote in 1877 that \"The majority of the inhabitants are Druses. There are a few Moslems and a few Christians; but [in 1850] there were thirty Jewish families living as agriculturists, cultivating grain and olives on their own landed property, most of it family inheritance; some of these people were of Algerine descent. They had their own synagogue and legally qualified butcher, and their numbers had formerly been more considerable.\" However, \"they afterwards dwindled to two families, the rest removing to [Haifa] as that port rose in prosperity.\" Conder and Kitchener, who visited in 1875, was told that the community consisted of \"2,500 souls—1,200 being Moslems, the rest Druses, Greeks, and Latins.\" The town's Druze community dwindled considerably in the 1880s as its members migrated east to the Hauran plain to avoid conscription by the Ottoman authorities.\n\nA population list from about 1887 showed that Shefa-'Amr had about 2,750 inhabitants; 795 Muslims, 95 Greek Catholics, 1,100 Catholic, 140 Latins, 175 Maronites/Protestants, 30 Jews and 440 Druze.\n\nAt the time of the 1922 census of Palestine, Shefa-'Amr had a population of 2,288 inhabitants, consisting of 1,263 Christians, 623 Muslims, and 402 Druze. Of the Christians, 1,054 were Melkites, 94 Anglicans, 70 Roman Catholics, 42 Greek Orthodox and three Maronite. By the 1931 census, Shefa-'Amr had 629 occupied houses and a population of 1,321 Christians, 1,006 Muslims, 496 Druz, and one Jew. A further 1,197 Muslims in 234 occupied houses was recorded for \"Shafa 'Amr Suburbs\".\n\nStatistics compiled by the Mandatory government in the 1945 statistics showed an urban population of 1,560 Christians, 1,380 Muslims, 10 Jews and 690 \"others\" (presumably Druze) and a rural population of 3,560 Muslims.\n\nIn 1948 Shefa-'Amr was captured by the Israeli army during the first phase of Operation Dekel, between 8–14 July. The Druze population actively cooperated with the IDF. The Muslim quarter was heavily shelled and thousands of inhabitants fled to Saffuriyeh. Following the fall of Nazareth some of the refugees were allowed to return to their homes. The population was placed under strict Martial Law. In November 1949 a group of notables from Shefa-'Amr gave the IDF a list of over 300 illegal residents in the town. The military rule lasted until 1966.\n\nOn 16 May 2004, Whehebe Moheen, a man in his sixties, murdered Manal Najeeb Abu Raed, his widowed daughter in law, wife of his son, and mother of his two grand daughters. The late Manal lost her husband to cancer two years earlier, and was living in the couple’s home, in the Druze village of Daliat El Carmel, near Haifa. Following this event, a conflict have started between the family of the murdered and the murderer family, The final reconciliation took place on 27 February 2009, when about 300 family members, dignitaries and residents of the mixed city of Shefa-'Amr and the predominantly Druze city of Daliyat al-Carmel participated in the reconciliation ritual. They gathered, along with Christian and Muslim dignitaries, including mayors of the two towns involved, Parliament members (Druze and Muslim), the religious leader of Israel’s Druze community, and a sizable contingent of Druze religious leaders from many Druze villages in the north of Israel. Following the speeches, the dignitaries signed the \"sulha\" (reconciliation) agreement, and after the document was declared officially endorsed, the killer’s family handed the leader of the sulha committee, Sheikh Muafak Tarif, a bag containing the blood money (\"diya\") compensation, and Tarif handed the bag to cousins of the murdered woman. The bag contained 200,000 NIS (about $50,000). This is about half what a “normal” conciliation payment would be, but the killer’s family refused to bring more money, claiming that they have no resources, and cannot run themselves bankrupt because of a “crazy” uncle.\n\nOn 4 August 2005, an AWOL Israeli Defense Force soldier, Eden Natan-Zada, opened fire while aboard a bus in the city, killing four Arab residents and wounding twenty-two others. After the shooting, Natan-Zada was overcome by nearby crowds, lynched and beaten with rocks. According to witnesses, the bus driver was surprised to see a \"kippah\"-wearing Jewish soldier making his way to Shefa-'Amr via public bus, so inquired of Natan-Zada whether he was certain he wanted to take his current route. The four fatalities were Hazar and Dina Turki, two sisters in their early twenties, and two men, Michel Bahouth (the bus driver) and Nader Hayek. In the days following the attack, 40,000 people attended mass funeral services for the victims. The sisters were buried in an Islamic cemetery and the men were buried in the Christian Catholic cemetery. The wounded were taken to Rambam Hospital in Haifa. The Shefa-'Amr municipality established a monument to commemorate the victims.\n\nShefa-'Amr is an ancient city located in the North District of Israel at the entrance to Galilee. It is located from the Mediterranean Sea and from each of three cities, Haifa, Acre and Nazareth, where many of the inhabitants are employed. The city is located on seven hills, which gives it the name \"Little Rome\". The elevation of the city and its strategic location as the connection between the valleys and mountains of Galilee made it more than once the center of its district, especially in the period of Uthman, the son of Zahir al-Umar, who built a castle in it, and towers around it. The bay of Haifa with the sea stretching between Haifa and Acre and the high mountains of Galilee and the valleys surrounding the city could be seen from high points in the city.\n\nIbraheem Nimr Hussein, a former mayor of Shefa-'Amr, was chairman of the Committee of Arab Mayors in Israel (later the Arab Follow-Up Committee) from its inception in 1975.\n\nIn 1981 a NGO to promote health care in the Arab community was set up in Shefa-'Amr. It called itself \"The Galilee Society\" - the Arab National Society for Health Research and Services.\n\nIn 1982, following the Israeli invasion of Lebanon, Mayor Ibrahim Nimr Husayn formed the \"Supreme Follow-Up Committee\" based on a committee that had been formed following Land Day. It consisted of 11 heads of local councils as well as Arab Members of Knesset. By the 1990s the committee, meeting in Nazareth, had expanded and become a mini-parliament representing Palestinians in the Galilee.\n\nAccording to Ynetnews, in January 2008, Mayor Ursan Yassin met with officials of the Israeli state committee on the celebrations for the 60th anniversary of independence, and announced that Shefa-'Amr intended to take part in the celebrations.\n\nIn 2011, 7,000 Christian, Druze and Muslims held a solidarity march in support of Christians in Iraq and Egypt who are suffering from religious persecution.\n\nIn 1951, the population was 4450, of whom about 10% were internally displaced persons from other villages. During the early 1950s, about 25,000 dunams of the land of Shefa Amr was expropriated by the following method: the land was declared a closed military area, then after enough time had passed for it to have become legally \"uncultivated\", the Minister of Agriculture used his powers to \"ensure that it was cultivated\" by giving it to neighboring Jewish majority communities. Some of the land was owned by Jews. Another 7,579 dunams was expropriated in 1953-4. The total land holdings of the village fell from 58,725 dunams in 1945 to 10,371 dunams in 1962.\n\nShfar'am's diverse population drawn from several different communities gives the city a relatively cosmopolitan and multi-cultural ambiance.\n\nAccording to CBS, in 2012 the religious and ethnic makeup of the city was mostly Israeli Arabs (consisting of 60.5% Muslim, 25.2% Christian, and 14.3% Druze). According to CBS, in 2012 there were 38,300 registered citizens in the city. The population of the city was spread out with 40.4% 19 years of age or younger, 14.9% between 20 and 29, 21.1% between 30 and 44, 17.8% from 45 to 64, and 5.7% 65 years of age or older.\n\nPopulation in Shefa-'Amr over the years:\nAccording to the CBS, in 2012 there were 12,494 salaried and 1062 self-employed workers in the city . The mean monthly wage in 2012 for a salaried worker in the city was ILS 5,412. Salaried males had a mean monthly wage of ILS 6,312 versus ILS 3,904 for females. The mean income for the self-employed was ILS 7,381. 235 people received unemployment benefits and 3,971 received an income guarantee.\n\nIn 2012, there were 24 schools serving a student population of 9,459: 15 elementary schools with 5,360 students and 13 high schools with 4,099 students. In 2012, 53.7% of twelfth grade students earned a matriculation certificate. In the eastern part of the city, Mifal HaPayis built a public computer center, a public library, a large events hall and more.\n\nShefa-'Amr is also home to Tamrat El Zeitoun, an elementary school (about 150 students) notable for serving Muslim, Christian, and Druze together and being the only Arabic language Waldorf school. In collaboration with Waldorf educators at Harduf the school developed a language curriculum accommodating the differences between written and spoken Arabic. The school celebrates the festivals from all three religions.\nThe Beit Almusica conservatory was founded in 1999 by musician Aamer Nakhleh in the center of Shefa-'Amr. It offers a year-round programs of music studies in various instruments, and holds music performances and concerts. Every year Shefa-'Amr holds a music festival known as the \"Fort Festival.\" Arab children from all over the country compete in singing classic Arabic songs and one is chosen as \"Voice of the Year.\" The Ba'ath choir, established by Raheeb Haddad, performs all over the country and participates in many international events. Singer Reem Talhami performs all over the Arab world. Celebrated oud player and violinist Tayseer Elias, on the Beit Almusica staff, is a composer, conductor and musicologist who also lectures at Bar-Ilan University. Butrus Lusia, a painter, specializes in icons for Christian churches.\nThe first plays in Shefa-'Amr were performed in the 1950s by the Christian scouts. Since the 1970s, many theaters have opened. among them the sons of Shefa-A'mr theater, Athar theater, house of the youth theater, Alghurbal Al Shefa-'Amry theater and Al Ufok theater. The largest theater in the city is the Ghurbal Establishment which is a national Arab theater. Sa'eed Salame, an actor, comedian and pantomimist, established a 3-day international pantomime festival that is held annually.\n\nShefa-'Amr is known for its mastic-based ice cream, \"bozet Shefa-'Amr\".The Nakhleh Coffee Company is the leading coffee producer in Israel's Arab community.\nNew restaurant-cafes have been opened in parts of the old city; those places are becoming the main cafes the youth of Shefa-Amr choose to spend their free time and special occasions in. The Awt Cafe started holding musical nights where local singers and instruments players including oud and others perform for the audience. Such events have sparked a popular nightlife for locals.\n\n\nThe Shfaram Ancient Synagogue is an old synagogue on the site of an even older structure. It is recorded as being active in 1845. A Christian resident of the town holds the keys. The synagogue was renovated in 2006. The tomb of Rabbi Judah ben Baba, a well-known rabbi from the 2nd century who was captured and executed by the Romans, is still standing and many Jewish believers come to visit it.\n\nByzantine period tombs are located in the middle of the city. They were the graves of the 5th and 6th-century Christian community. The tomb entrances are decorated with sculptures of lions and Greek inscriptions which make mention of Jesus.\n\nIn the center of the city, where the Sisters of Nazareth convent now stands, was a 4th-century church, St. Jacob's. This church is mentioned in the notes of Christian church historians, although the original church has been replaced by the monastery. Some marble columns remain, similar to those used to build the earliest churches.\n\nSt. Peter & St. Paul Church is located in one of the town's peaks near the fort, it has a high bell tower and a large purple dome. The church was built by Otman, who made a promise to build it if his fort was finished successfully. The walls of the church began to weaken and in 1904 the entire church building was reinforced and renovated. This is the main church of the local Greek Catholic community.\nThe Mosque of Ali Ibn Abi Talib (Old Mosque) was constructed near the castle in the days of Sulayman Pasha.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54268857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54268857", "title": "Snake Bay Patrol", "text": "Snake Bay Patrol\n\nThe Snake Bay Patrol was an auxiliary reconnaissance unit made up of Indigenous Australian residents of Melville Island in the Northern Territory that was raised by the Royal Australian Navy during World War II. The unit was established by Royal Australian Naval Volunteer Reserve officer Lieutenant J.W.B. Gribble during the Pacific War to detect any Japanese forces which landed on the island, with local Indigenous Australians being informally recruited and never formally enlisted into the military. The Patrol's 35 members served on a full-time basis, received firearms training, were issued naval uniforms and held naval ranks conferred by Gribble, but were not paid. Similar units were raised on Bathurst Island, the Cox Peninsula and Groote Eylandt.\n\nDuring the war the Snake Bay Patrol conducted patrols along the shore of Melville Island, rescued downed Allied airmen and determined the location of naval mines. Two members of the Patrol are also believed to have formed part of reconnaissance parties landed on Timor from Allied submarines. \n\nThe former members of the Snake Island Patrol only became eligible for service medals and payments in recognition of their service in 1962. In December 1991 the few surviving members of the Patrol and the other auxiliary Indigenous units received compensation for not having been paid during the war, as well as the Defence Medal and War Medal; these were also provided to the next of kin of the members who had died by that time. The next year the surviving men became eligible for veteran's benefits under the \"Veterans’ Entitlements Act 1986\".\n\n"}
{"id": "317930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=317930", "title": "Stefano Infessura", "text": "Stefano Infessura\n\nStefano Infessura (c. 1435 – c. 1500) was an Italian humanist historian and lawyer. He is remembered through his municipalist \"Diary of the City of Rome\", a partisan chronicle of events at Rome by the Colonna family's point of view. He was in a position to hear everything that circulated in informed Roman circles, for he was the longtime secretary of the Roman Senate. Anecdotes that Infessura relates may be colored by his own partisan nature, but his diary faithfully records news that was making the rounds in the city, whether true or not; \"he inserted every fragment of the most preposterous and malevolent gossip current in Roman society, and is therefore not considered a reliable chronicler\" (\"New Catholic Dictionary\").\n\nInfessura's diary, partly in Latin and partly in ancient Romanesco, the \"Diarium urbis Romae (Diario della Città di Roma)\" is of special firsthand value for the pontificates of Paul II (1464-1471), Sixtus IV (1471-1484), Innocent VIII (1484-1492), and the beginning of Alexander VI's pontificate.\n\nInfessura took a degree of Doctor of Laws and served as a judge, before he came to the University at Rome as professor of Roman law. According to the \"Catholic Encyclopedia\", \"Under Sixtus IV, his office was affected by the financial measures of that pope, who frequently withheld the income of the Roman University, applied it to other uses, and reduced the salaries of the professors\". That may not provide adequate motivation for Infessura's deep opposition to Sixtus' policies, and for anecdotes that would be certainly scurrilous if they are untrue.\n\nInfessura became entangled in the conspiracy of Stefano Porcari against Nicholas V (1453), which aimed at overturning the papal secular powers in Rome and the Papal States and reviving the Roman republic of antiquity. Among the paganizing Humanists of the Roman Academy under Pomponio Leto, Infessura certainly belonged to the antipapal faction. \n\nPapst and other Catholic authors take pains to discredit the story of Innocent VIII's deathbed. As the Pope sank into a coma, \"the harrowing story was told that, at the suggestion of a Jewish physician, the blood of three boys was infused into the dying pontiff’s mouth (the concept of circulation and methods for intravenous access did not exist at that time). They were ten years old, and had been promised a ducat each. All three died.\" Historians of medicine note this event as the first recorded historical attempt at a blood transfusion.\n\n"}
{"id": "8812423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8812423", "title": "Stephen D. Houston", "text": "Stephen D. Houston\n\nStephen Douglas Houston ( ; born November 11, 1958) is an American anthropologist, archaeologist, epigrapher and Mayanist scholar, who is particularly renowned for his research into the pre-Columbian Maya civilization of Mesoamerica. He is the author of a number of papers and books concerning topics such as the Maya script, the history, kingships and dynastic politics of the pre-Columbian Maya, and archaeological reports on several Maya archaeological sites, particularly Dos Pilas and El Zotz.\n\nHouston is an endowed chair as Dupee Family Professor of Social Science at Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island, and is also a professor in Brown's Department of Anthropology.\n\nHouston has collaborated with many of his students and colleagues on projects and publications. He has led investigations at Piedras Negras, Kaminaljuyu and El Zotz, Guatemala. These projects have resulted in new information on the ancient cultures of Mesoamerica.\n\nStephen Douglas Houston was born in Chambersburg, Pennsylvania and graduated from Carlisle High School. In 1976 he commenced undergraduate studies at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia in anthropology. From 1978–79 he spent a year as an exchange student at Edinburgh University, Scotland, where he participated in his first field trips, excavating Mesolithic and Neolithic bog sites in Offaly and Mayo counties, Ireland, and at a Bronze Age henge near Strathallan, Scotland.\n\nReturning to Penn, Houston graduated \"summa cum laude\" in 1980 with a B.A. in Anthropology. He then entered the graduate studies program at Yale University, undertaking a Master of Philosophy (Anthropology) research degree, which was awarded in 1983. During this time he took a position of curatorial assistant at the Peabody Museum of Natural History, followed by a position as a Teaching Fellow at Yale. Specialising in archaeological and epigraphic Maya studies, Houston participated in several field trips recording Maya stelae and inscriptions in Guatemala, Belize and Mexico (Bonampak), and held the first of various research Fellowships.\n\nAfter completing his M.Phil., Houston worked towards completing his Ph.D in Anthropology at Yale, which was awarded (with Distinction) in 1987. During this period he worked as an epigrapher on an archaeological project at the site of Caracol, Belize, and served as Director on a project mapping the Dos Pilas site in the Petexbatun region, Pasión River, Guatemala, spending several months at a time in fieldwork for these positions. The work at Dos Pilas was expanded into his dissertation, \"The Inscriptions and Monumental Art of Dos Pilas, Guatemala: A Study of Classic Maya History and Politics.\"\n\nBefore joining Brown University's faculty Houston held the Jesse Knight chair at Brigham Young University.\n\nIn 2008 the MacArthur Foundation named Professor Houston as a MacArthur Fellow and recipient of a 'genius' award.\n\nOn 21 July 2011 Houston was awarded the prestigious Order of the Quetzal by the President of Guatemala in recognition of his contributions to the study of Maya culture and for promoting knowledge of ancient Mayan culture in the English speaking world.\n\nIn 2018, he was appointed by the Library of Congress as the inaugural Jay I. Kislak Chair for the study of the history and cultures of the early Americas at the John W. Kluge Center.\n\nHe is married to Nancy Dayton Houston and has two children.\n"}
{"id": "22787548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22787548", "title": "Stirrup spout vessel", "text": "Stirrup spout vessel\n\nA stirrup spout vessel (so called because of its resemblance to a stirrup) is a type of ceramic vessel common among several Pre-Columbian cultures of South America beginning in the early 2nd millennium BCE.\n\nThese cultures included the Chavin and the Moche. In these vessels the stirrup handle actually forms part of the spout, which emanates from the top of the stirrup. The jars, which were often elaborately figurative, would be cast from a mold, while the stirrup spout was built by hand and welded to the vessel with slip.\n\n"}
{"id": "3865516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3865516", "title": "The Prehistoric Society", "text": "The Prehistoric Society\n\nThe Prehistoric Society is an international learned society devoted to the study of the human past from the earliest times until the emergence of written history. \n\nNow based at University College London in the United Kingdom, it was founded by V. Gordon Childe, Stuart Piggott and Grahame Clark in 1935 but also traces its founding to the earlier Prehistoric Society of East Anglia which began in 1908. The society is a registered charity under English law.\n\nMembership is by subscription and includes the annual journal, Proceedings of the Prehistoric Society (Print), (Online), which continues \"Proceedings of the Prehistoric Society of East Anglia\" (1911-1934) (Print), and bulletins from the newsletter, \"PAST\", which is published in April, July and November. It also organises regular conferences, lectures and other events and makes grants for archaeological research.\n"}
{"id": "46954947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46954947", "title": "Toby Barnard", "text": "Toby Barnard\n\nToby Christopher Barnard, is emeritus fellow in history at Hertford College, University of Oxford. He joined the college in 1976 and retired in 2012. He was formerly lecturer in history at Royal Holloway (1970-1976). Barnard is a specialist in the political, social and cultural histories of Ireland and England, c. 1600-1800. His \"A New Anatomy of Ireland\" (2003) was notable for the depth of primary research that Barnard carried out to complete it. One reviewer commented that \"This task of discovery and accumulation by itself is an heroic achievement.\" Barnard is a fellow of the British Academy and the Royal Historical Society. He did his undergraduate studies at The Queen's College, Oxford, and was supervised for his PhD by Hugh Trevor-Roper.\n\n"}
{"id": "1570289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1570289", "title": "Uchronia", "text": "Uchronia\n\nUchronia refers to a hypothetical or fictional time-period of our world, in contrast to altogether fictional lands or worlds. A concept similar to alternate history but different in the manner that uchronic times are not easily defined (mainly placed in some distant or unspecified point before current times), sometimes reminiscent of a constructed world. Some, however, do use \"uchronia\" to refer to an alternate history.\n\nThe word is a neologism from the word utopia (Greek \"u-topos\", meaning \"no-place\"), replacing \"topos\" with \"chronos\" (time). It was coined by Charles Renouvier as the title of his 1876 novel \"Uchronie (L'Utopie dans l'histoire), esquisse historique apocryphe du développement de la civilisation européenne tel qu'il n'a pas été, tel qu'il aurait pu être\" (Uchronia (Utopia in History), an Apocryphal Sketch of the Development of European Civilization Not as It Was But as It Might Have Been), reprinted 1988, . \n\nThe concept of Merry England is an example of uchronic myth. It refers to a poorly defined point after Medieval England, mainly existing as a collective memory and nostalgia of a better past, although historically such a period never existed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1390983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1390983", "title": "Witold Jakóbczyk", "text": "Witold Jakóbczyk\n\nWitold Jakóbczyk (; 1909–1986) was a Polish historian and professor at Poznań University, specializing in the history of Greater Poland in the 19th century.\n\n\n"}
