{"id": "21255940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21255940", "title": "2009 Zigana avalanche", "text": "2009 Zigana avalanche\n\nThe 2009 Zigana avalanche was an avalanche that occurred on 25 January at around 11:15 local time (09:15 UTC) on Mount Zigana, Gümüşhane Province in north-eastern Turkey. It struck a group of 17 hikers at a height of near the site of a small ski resort. The snow mass dragged the hikers about into a valley. Ten people were killed, one person was rescued with injuries and another one died in hospital while five others survived without injuries. \n\nTeams from civilian defense and other public administrations rushed to the scene for the rescue of the victims from a sports club in Trabzon after local gendarmerie was notified of the incident. Also a team of AKUT, a voluntary disaster search and rescue organization, travelled from Trabzon to the location, to assess the situation and to offer any help and assistance necessary.\n\nNasuh Mahruki, the first Turkish Mt. Everest summiter and the head of AKUT, said that \"the accident was a walking group accident, not a mountain climbing accident. It is apparent that they hit the road without an avalanche test. It is very difficult for 16 to 17 people to remain under an avalanche.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "32397779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32397779", "title": "Cirrus duplicatus", "text": "Cirrus duplicatus\n\nCirrus duplicatus is a variety of cirrus cloud. The name \"cirrus duplicatus\" is derived from Latin, meaning \"double\". The duplicatus variety of cirrus clouds occurs when there are at least two layers of cirrus clouds. Most of the time, occurrences of cirrus fibratus and cirrus uncinus are in the duplicatus form. Like stratus clouds, cirrus clouds are often seen in the duplicatus form.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55708307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55708307", "title": "Clean Boating Act of 2008", "text": "Clean Boating Act of 2008\n\nThe Clean Boating Act of 2008 (CBA) is a United States law that requires recreational vessels to implement best management practices to control pollution discharges. The law exempts these vessels from requirements to obtain a discharge permit under the Clean Water Act (i.e. they are exempt from coverage under the EPA Vessels General Permit).\n\nThe CBA amended the Clean Water Act (CWA) and directs the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to develop performance standard regulations. The regulations will not apply to sewage discharges from recreational vessels, which are already regulated under the CWA. (\"See\" Marine sanitation device.) The CBA designated the U.S. Coast Guard as the enforcing agency.\n\nIn 2011 EPA conducted public meetings to obtain public comment about developing CBA regulations. As of 2017, EPA has not announced a schedule for issuing the regulations.\n\n"}
{"id": "7466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7466", "title": "Coal tar", "text": "Coal tar\n\nCoal tar is a thick dark liquid which is a by-product of the production of coke and coal gas from coal. It has both medical and industrial uses. It may be applied to the affected area to treat psoriasis and seborrheic dermatitis (dandruff). It may be used in combination with ultraviolet light therapy. Industrially it is a railway tie preservative and used in the surfacing of roads.\nSide effects include skin irritation, sun sensitivity, allergic reactions, and skin discoloration. It is unclear if use during pregnancy is safe for the baby and use during breastfeeding is not typically recommended. The exact mechanism of action is unknown. It is a complex mixture of phenols, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), and heterocyclic compounds. It demonstrates antifungal, anti-inflammatory, anti-itch, and antiparasitic properties.\nCoal tar was discovered around 1665 and used for medical purposes as early as the 1800s. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the most effective and safe medicines needed in a health system. Coal tar is available as a generic medication and over the counter. In the United Kingdom 125 ml of 5% shampoo costs the NHS about £1.89. In the United States a month of treatment costs less than $25 USD. Coal-tar was one of the key starting materials for the early pharmaceutical industry.\n\nCoal tar is used in medicated shampoo, soap and ointment. It demonstrates antifungal, anti-inflammatory, anti-itch, and antiparasitic properties. It may be applied topically as a treatment for dandruff and psoriasis, and to kill and repel head lice. It may be used in combination with ultraviolet light therapy. \n\nCoal tar is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the most effective and safe medicines needed in a health system. Coal tar is generally available as a generic medication and over the counter. In the United Kingdom 125 ml of 5% shampoo costs the NHS about £1.89. In the United States a month of treatment costs less than $25 USD.\n\nPine tar has historically also been used for this purpose. Though it is frequently cited online as having been banned as a medical product by the FDA due to a \"lack of evidence having been submitted for proof of effectiveness\", pine tar is included in the Code of Federal Regulations, subchapter D: Drugs for Human Use, as an OTC treatment for \"Dandruff/seborrheic dermatitis/psoriasis\".\n\nCoal tar may be used in two forms: crude coal tar () or a coal tar solution () also known as liquor carbonis detergens (LCD). Named brands include Denorex, Balnetar, Psoriasin, Tegrin, T/Gel, and Neutar. When used in the extemporaneous preparation of topical medications, it is supplied in the form of coal tar topical solution USP, which consists of a 20% w/v solution of coal tar in alcohol, with an additional 5% w/v of polysorbate 80 USP; this must then be diluted in an ointment base such as petrolatum.\n\nCoal tar was a component of the first sealed roads. In its original development by Edgar Purnell Hooley, tarmac was tar covered with granite chips. Later the filler used was industrial slag. Today, petroleum derived binders and sealers are more commonly used. These sealers are used to extend the life and reduce maintenance cost associated with asphalt pavements, primarily in asphalt road paving, car parks and walkways.\n\nCoal tar is incorporated into some parking-lot sealcoat products used to protect the structural integrity of the underlying pavement. Sealcoat products that are coal-tar based typically contain 20 to 35 percent coal-tar pitch. Research shows it is used in United States states from Alaska to Florida, but several areas have banned its use in sealcoat products,\n\nBeing flammable, coal tar is sometimes used for heating or to fire boilers. Like most heavy oils, it must be heated before it will flow easily.\n\nA large part of the binder used in the graphite industry for making \"green blocks\" is coke oven volatiles (COV), a considerable portion of which is coal tar. During the baking process of the green blocks as a part of commercial graphite production, most of the coal tar binders are vaporised and are generally burned in an incinerator to prevent release into the atmosphere, as COV and coal tar can be injurious to health.\n\nCoal tar is also used to manufacture paints, synthetic dyes (notably tartrazine/Yellow #5), and photographic materials.\n\nIn the coal gas era, there were many companies in Britain whose business was to distill coal tar to separate the higher-value fractions, such as naphtha, creosote and pitch. A great many industrial chemicals were first isolated from coal tar during this time. These companies included:\n\n\nSide effects of coal tar products include skin irritation, sun sensitivity, allergic reactions, and skin discoloration. It is unclear if use during pregnancy is safe for the baby and use during breastfeeding is not typically recommended. \n\nAccording to the National Psoriasis Foundation, coal tar is a valuable, safe and inexpensive treatment option for millions of people with psoriasis and other scalp or skin conditions. According to the FDA, coal tar concentrations between 0.5% and 5% are considered safe and effective for psoriasis.\n\nEvidence is inconclusive whether the coal tar in the concentrations seen in non-prescription treatments causes cancer, because there is insufficient data to make a judgment. While coal tar consistently causes cancer in animal studies, short-term treatments of humans have shown no significant increase in rates of cancer. It's possible that the skin can repair itself after short-term exposure to PAHs, but not after long-term exposure.\n\nCoal tar was one of the first chemical substances proven to cause cancer from occupational exposure, during research in 1775 on the cause of chimney sweeps' carcinoma. Modern studies have shown that working with coal tar pitch, such as during the paving of roads or when working on roofs, increases the risk of cancer.\n\nCoal tar contains many polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, and it is believed that their metabolites bind to DNA, damaging it. Long-term skin exposure to these compounds can produce \"tar warts\", which can progress to squamous cell carcinoma.\n\nThe International Agency for Research on Cancer lists coal tars as Group 1 carcinogens, meaning they directly cause cancer. Both the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the state of California list coal tars as known human carcinogens.\n\nCoal tar causes increased sensitivity to sunlight, so skin treated with topical coal tar preparations should be protected from sunlight.\n\nThe residue from the distillation of high-temperature coal tar, primarily a complex mixture of three or more membered condensed ring aromatic hydrocarbons, was listed on 28 October 2008 as a substance of very high concern by the European Chemicals Agency.\n\nThe exact mechanism of action is unknown. Coal tar is a complex mixture of phenols, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), and heterocyclic compounds.\n\nIt is a keratolytic agent, which reduces the growth rate of skin cells and softens the skin's keratin.\n\nCoal tar is produced through thermal destruction (pyrolysis) of coal. Its composition varies with the process and type of coal used – lignite, bituminous or anthracite.\n\nCoal tar contains approximately 10,000 chemicals, of which only about 50% have been identified. Components include polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (4-rings: chrysene, fluoranthene, pyrene, triphenylene, naphthacene, benzanthracene, 5-rings: picene, benzo[a]pyrene, benzo[e]pyrene, benzofluoranthenes, perylene, 6-rings: dibenzopyrenes, dibenzofluoranthenes, benzoperylenes, 7-rings: coronene), as well as methylated and polymethylated derivatives, mono- and polyhydroxylated derivatives, and heterocyclic compounds. Others include benzene, toluene, xylenes, cumenes, coumarone, indene, benzofuran, naphthalene and methyl-naphthalenes, acenaphthene, fluorene, phenol, cresols, pyridine, picolines, phenanthracene, carbazole, quinolines, fluoranthene. Many of these constituents are known carcinogens.\n\nVarious phenolic coal tar derivatives have analgesic (pain-killer) properties. These included acetanilide, phenacetin, and paracetamol (acetaminophen). Paracetamol is the only coal-tar derived analgesic still in use today, but industrial phenol is now usually synthesized from crude oil rather than coal tar.\n\nExposure to coal tar pitch volatiles can occur in the workplace by breathing, skin contact, or eye contact. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) has set the permissible exposure limit) to 0.2 mg/m benzene-soluble fraction over an 8-hour workday. The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) has set a recommended exposure limit (REL) of 0.1 mg/m cyclohexane-extractable fraction over an 8-hour workday. At levels of 80 mg/m, coal tar pitch volatiles are immediately dangerous to life and health.\n\nWhen used as a medication in the U.S., coal tar preparations are considered over-the-counter drug pharmaceuticals and are subject to regulation by the FDA. \n\n"}
{"id": "7406158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7406158", "title": "Cypriot mouse", "text": "Cypriot mouse\n\nThe Cypriot mouse (\"Mus cypriacus\") is a species of mouse endemic to Cyprus. Its primary habitat seems to be the vineyards and fields of the Troödos Mountains region.\n\nThe mouse was recognized as a new species in 2004 by Thomas Cucchi, a research fellow at the University of Durham. It was formally described in 2006, in \"Zootaxa\".\n\nThe Cypriot mouse has characteristics that distinguish it from other European mice: bigger ears, eyes and teeth; DNA tests confirmed that it was a distinct species.\n\n\"All other endemic mammals of Mediterranean islands died out following the arrival of man, with the exception of two species of shrew. The new mouse of Cyprus is the only endemic rodent still alive, and as such can be considered as a living fossil,\" said Dr. Cucchi. Originally, Dr. Cucchi wanted to call it \"Mus aphrodite\", as Cyprus is the birthplace of Aphrodite according to Greek mythology.\n"}
{"id": "16930987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16930987", "title": "Direct exchange geothermal heat pump", "text": "Direct exchange geothermal heat pump\n\nA direct exchange (DX) geothermal heat pump is a type of geothermal heat pump (or ground source heat pump) in which refrigerant circulates through copper tubing placed in the ground. It is a closed-loop, refrigerant-based geothermal system.\n\nDirect exchange geothermal heat pumps function similarly to air source heat pumps, according to the principles of vapor compression refrigeration, except they take advantage of the relatively constant ground temperatures, which are less variable than outdoor air temperatures. Ground temperature is cooler than the outdoor air temperature in summer – making for a better heat sink – and warmer in the winter – making for a better heat source. Direct exchange geothermal heat pumps are therefore more efficient than air source heat pumps. They are also quieter, more durable and require less maintenance since they don’t have any outdoor fan or outdoor coil. Furthermore, the uniformity of the underground temperature compared to the outdoor air translates into less stress on the systems.\n\nIn direct exchange systems, the refrigerant exchanges heat directly with the soil through the copper tubing. The designation “direct exchange\" therefore refers to the heat transfer between the earth and the ground loop without the use of any intermediary. By contrast, water-based geothermal systems rely on two loops on the ground side: a primary refrigerant loop, contained in the appliance cabinet where it exchanges heat with a secondary ground loop that is buried underground and is made of high-density polyethylene containing a mixture of water and anti-freeze (propylene glycol, denatured alcohol or methanol).\n\nDirect exchange systems eliminate the plastic water pipe and water circulating pump found in water-source geothermal systems. This simplicity allows the system to reach high efficiencies while using a shorter and smaller set of buried tubing, reducing footprint and installation cost.\n\nLike all ground source heat pumps, direct exchange systems indirectly harvest solar energy, by absorbing the solar heat stored at the Earth's surface. The US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has called ground source heat pumps the most energy-efficient, environmentally clean and cost-effective space conditioning systems available. Geothermal heat pumps offer significant emission reductions potential.\n\nThe technology has many different others names and designations:\n\nThe first geothermal heat pump was a DX system built in the late 1940s by Robert C. Webber. It used Freon gas and buried copper tubing, for increased efficiency.\n\nLater geothermal heat pumps designs started incorporating an additional plastic pipe loop to circulate water in deep wells in an effort to gather sufficient heat for large industrial applications, such as cement plants. Thus water-source technology advanced due to industrial interest while DX, more suited for residential and light commercial projects such as small businesses and private homes, lagged behind.\n\nGradually developing since the 1980s, DX technology is now experiencing a surge in popularity due in part to its simplicity, efficiency and compact footprint. There is also increasing awareness of environmental and energy issues among urban and suburban residents with limited space in which to install a system.\n\nWhile the technology was expanding in the 80s and 90s, several of the early manufacturers faced issues with the refrigerant and oil management system. Oil return was especially a challenge with old system using R22 refrigerant and mineral oils, after the ban of CFC refrigerants. This is because R22 and mineral oil separate into two phases in the operating range which can cause return issues in improperly designed systems. Nowadays geothermal systems use polyolester oil (POE) and R-410A refrigerant. POE oil and R-410A mix very well together, which translates into superior oil return characteristics.\n\nDirect exchange heat pumps are closed-loop geothermal systems which rely on small copper pipes (¼” to 1-1/8”) to exchange heat with the earth. The copper pipes are placed in the ground and form a ground loop – sometimes also referred to as earth loop or refrigerant loop - where the circulating refrigerant undergoes phase transition by exchanging heat with the ground: in heating mode it absorbs heat and changes from liquid to gas (evaporation), while in cooling mode it gives heat off and changes from gas to liquid (condensation).\n\nA direct exchange geothermal heat pump is a type of central heating and cooling system that functions similarly to a standard heat pump, according to the vapor-compression cycle.\n\nIn the heating mode the ground serves as the evaporator. Liquid refrigerant coming - through the liquid line- from the heat pump’s indoor coil (serving as the condenser) is expanded and enters the smaller diameter tube of the ground loop. Heat is then transferred from the warmer ground to the ground loop. This leads to the refrigerant boiling to a vapor (evaporation) as it progresses through the loop. The refrigerant vapor then exits the ground loop and is returned -through the vapor line- to the compressor unit. Once in the compressor, the refrigerant is compressed to a higher pressure and temperature. The hot, superheated refrigerant vapor is now delivered to the indoor coil (condenser) where it gives off heat to the cooler building’s final delivery fluid with the assistance of the indoor circulator. As the refrigerant vapor gives off heat, it gradually condenses back to the liquid state.\n\nIn the cooling mode the ground serves as a condenser. Superheated vapor refrigerant from the heat pump’s compressor is pumped -through the vapor line- into the larger diameter tube of the ground loop. Heat is then transferred from the ground loop to the cooler ground. This leads to the refrigerant condensing to a full liquid as it progresses through the loop, as shown in Figure 12. The refrigerant liquid then exits the ground loop and is returned -through the liquid line- to the indoor coil to be re-expanded to a lower pressure and temperature. This will enable it to absorb heat from the space to condition with the assistance of the indoor circulator. It will also enable it to dehumidify thanks to the indoor coil (evaporator) temperature being lower than the room temperature dew point. As the refrigerant absorbs heat while passing through the indoor coil (evaporator), the refrigerant evaporates and exits as a saturated vapor towards the heat pump’s compressor.\n\nDirect exchange systems are rather simple refrigerant-based systems and operate without requiring anti-freezing agents, system flushing, circulating pump, water well drilling or plumbing.\n\nDepending on the models, they can provide space heating, space cooling, domestic water heating as well as radiant floor hydronic heating and chilled water cooling.\n\nDirect exchange geothermal systems are the least invasive geothermal systems and feature small earth loop size. Because of that, they can be installed in relatively small areas and in relatively shallow soil - typical loop depth does not exceed 100 linear feet.\n\nSince the length of the ground loop system is minimized, DX systems require smaller drill rigs - in comparison with water well rigs - which can get into smaller spaces and yards. This provides a greater flexibility of installation and makes it an available option in more areas and for more properties.\n\nThe compactness of the earth loop systems, which require less drilling and smaller borehole, makes up for a simpler system that is cheaper and quicker to install.The relative simplicity of refrigerant-based systems – relying on a one-step heat exchange process – translates not only into a simpler and less expensive installation but also into less maintenance as well: unlike water-based systems, they do not require maintenance to top up water and glycol levels.\n\nDirect exchange systems use copper because it is an excellent ground heat exchanger material and easy to manufacture. Copper tubing is strong and ductile; resistant to corrosion; has a very high thermal conductivity; and is available in many different diameters and in long coil lengths. Copper connections can be brazed, the tubing may be bent, and copper tubing is economically available.\n\nIn addition, copper has a long history of use in air conditioning and refrigeration, and is the material of choice for potable water for water lines buried underground and in buildings.\n\nCopper has been used since antiquity in architectural constructions because it is a noble metal – one of a few that can be found naturally in the ground. This makes it a durable, weatherproof and corrosion-resistant material with an indefinite lifetime in most soils.\n\nAlthough copper is extracted from the ground itself and is a noble metal - and is therefore almost completely impervious to corrosion from soils found worldwide - it might still undergo some corrosion in abnormally aggressive soils. It generally requires an oxidizing environment to start corrosion, and most soils are reducing, thus they contribute electrons to the copper and protect it against corrosion. In those areas where corrosive conditions may exist, copper will then naturally form a protective film on its surface which remains intact under most soil conditions.\n\nIn anticipation of particularly corrosive soils, DX systems come with a Cathodic Protection system. The principle is to protect the metal surface from corrosion by making it the cathode of an electrochemical cell. In that process, the metal –copper – is connected to a sacrificial metal which will corrode in its place. Corrosion of metals is an electrochemical process of deterioration that results from a loss of electrons as they react with water and/or oxygen. As the current flows from the Earth Loop Protection system, the metal surface to be protected is given in a uniform negative electrical potential that precludes corrosion of the ground loops, even in hostile environments.\n\nThe ground loop system may be installed in several different configurations. The three most common configurations are: \nDiagonal and Vertical configurations typically require drilling and grouting to be installed in drilled bore holes. Grout reseals the earth below the surface so that natural ground water aquifers are not interrupted. All diagonal and vertical systems must be grouted from the bottom up to the top.\n\nDiagonal systems usually have a very small footprint.\n\nHorizontal configurations usually only require trenching to be installed in excavated trenches or a pit. Horizontal systems do not usually require grout, except in the case of directional boring.\n\nDX systems are currently manufactured in sizes from 1.5 tons (5.25 kW) to 15 tons (52 kW). Larger projects can be accomplished through installation of multiple units.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48058587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48058587", "title": "Energy in Georgia (country)", "text": "Energy in Georgia (country)\n\nGeorgia had a total primary energy supply (TPES) of 4.793 Mtoe in 2016. Electricity consumption was 11.5 TWh in 2016. Electricity production was 11.6 TWh, of which 81% from hydroelectricity and 19% from natural gas. It is estimated that only 25% of Georgia's total energy is used.\n\n"}
{"id": "8613983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8613983", "title": "Eurasian Steppe", "text": "Eurasian Steppe\n\nThe Eurasian Steppe, also called the Great Steppe or the steppes, is the vast steppe ecoregion of Eurasia in the temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands biome. It stretches from Romania and Moldova through Ukraine, Russia, Kazakhstan, Xinjiang, and Mongolia to Manchuria, with one major exclave, the Pannonian steppe or Puszta, located mostly in Hungary.\n\nSince the Paleolithic age, the Steppe route has connected Eastern Europe, Central Asia, China, South Asia, and the Middle East economically, politically, and culturally through overland trade routes. The Steppe route is a predecessor not only of the Silk Road which developed during antiquity and the Middle Ages, but also of the Eurasian Land Bridge in the modern era. It has been home to nomadic empires and many large tribal confederations and ancient states throughout history, such as the Xiongnu, Scythia, Cimmeria, Sarmatia, Hunnic Empire, Chorasmia, Transoxiana, Sogdiana, Xianbei, Mongols, and Göktürk Khaganate.\n\nThe Eurasian Steppe extends thousands of miles from near the mouth of the Danube almost to the Pacific Ocean. It is bounded on the north by the forests of European Russia, Siberia and Asian Russia. There is no clear southern boundary although the land becomes increasingly dry as one moves south. The steppe narrows at two points, dividing it into three major parts.\n\n\n\n\nOn the east side of the former Sino-Soviet border mountains extend north almost to the forest zone with only limited grassland in Dzungaria.\n\n\n\nBig mammals of the Eurasian steppe were the Przewalski's horse, the saiga antelope, the Mongolian gazelle, the goitered gazelle, the wild Bactrian camel and the onager. The gray wolf and the corsac fox and occasionally the brown bear are predators roaming the steppe. Smaller mammal species are the Mongolian gerbil, the little souslik and the bobak marmot.\n\nFurthermore, the Eurasian steppe is home to a great variety of bird species. Threatened bird species living there are for example the imperial eagle, the lesser kestrel, the great bustard, the pale-back pigeon and the white-throated bushchat.\n\nThe primary domesticated animals raised were sheep and goats with fewer cattle than one might expect. Camels were used in the drier areas for transport as far west as Astrakhan. There were some yaks along the edge of Tibet. The horse was used for transportation and warfare. The horse was first domesticated on the Pontic–Caspian or Kazakh steppe sometime before 3000 BC, but it took a long time for mounted archery to develop and the process is not fully understood. The stirrup does not seem to have been completely developed until 300 AD (see Stirrup, Saddle, Composite bow, Domestication of the horse and related articles).\n\nThe World Wide Fund for Nature divides the Eurasian steppe's temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands into a number of ecoregions, distinguished by elevation, climate, rainfall, and other characteristics, and home to distinct animal and plant communities and species, and distinct habitat ecosystems.\n\nThe major centers of population and high culture in Eurasia are Europe,the Middle East, India and China. For some purposes it is useful to treat Greater Iran as a separate region. All these regions are connected by the Eurasian Steppe route which was an active predecessor of the Silk Road. The latter started in the Guanzhong region of China and ran west along the Hexi Corridor to the Tarim Basin. From there it went southwest to Greater Iran and turned southeast to India or west to the Middle East and Europe. A minor branch went northwest along the great rivers and north of the Caspian Sea to the Black Sea. When faced with a rich caravan the steppe nomads could either rob it, or tax it, or hire themselves out as guards. Economically these three forms of taxation or parasitism amounted to the same thing. Trade was usually most vigorous when a strong empire controlled the steppe and reduced the number of petty chieftains preying on trade. The silk road first became significant and Chinese silk began reaching the Roman Empire about the time that the Emperor of Han pushed Chinese power west to the Tarim Basin.\n\nThe nomads would occasionally tolerate colonies of peasants on the steppe in the few areas where farming was possible. These were often captives who grew grain for their nomadic masters. Along the fringes there were areas that could be used for either plowland or grassland. These alternated between one and the other depending on the relative strength of the nomadic and agrarian heartlands. Over the last few hundred years, the Russian steppe and much of Inner Mongolia has been cultivated. The fact that most of the Russian steppe is not irrigated implies that it was maintained as grasslands as a result of the military strength of the nomads.\n\nAccording to the most widely held hypothesis of the origin of the Indo-European languages, the Kurgan hypothesis, their common ancestor is thought to have originated on the Pontic-Caspian steppe. The Tocharians were an early Indo-European branch in the Tarim Basin. At the beginning of written history the entire steppe population west of Dzungaria spoke Iranian languages. From about 500 AD the Turkic languages replaced the Iranian languages first on the steppe, and later in the oases north of Iran (the reasons for this are poorly understood). Additionally, Hungarian speakers, a branch of the Uralic language family, who previously lived in the steppe in what is now Southern Russia, settled in the Carpathian basin in year 895. Mongolic languages are in Mongolia. In Manchuria one finds Tungusic languages and some others.\n\nAccording to the Kurgan hypothesis of Indo-European origins, the earliest hypothesized steppe religion would have been Proto Indo-European. Later, Tengriism was introduced by Turko-Mongol nomads. Nestorianism and Manichaeism spread to the Tarim Basin and into China, but they never became established majority religions. Buddhism spread from the north of India to the Tarim Basin and found a new home in China. By about 1400 AD, the entire steppe west of Dzungaria had adopted Islam. By about 1600 AD, Islam was established in the Tarim Basin while Dzungaria and Mongolia had adopted Tibetan Buddhism.\n\nRaids between tribes were prevalent throughout the region's history. This is connected to the ease with which a defeated enemy's flocks can be driven away, making raiding profitable. In terms of warfare and raiding, in relation to sedentary societies, the horse gave the nomads an advantage of mobility. Horsemen could raid a village and retreat with their loot before an infantry-based army could be mustered and deployed. When confronted with superior infantry, horsemen could simply ride away and retreat and regroup. Outside of Europe and parts of the Middle East, agrarian societies had difficulty raising a sufficient number of war horses, and often had to enlist them from their nomadic enemies(as mercenaries). Nomads could not easily be pursued onto the steppe since the steppe could not easily support a land army. If the Chinese sent an army into Mongolia, the nomads would flee and come back when the Chinese ran out of supplies. But the steppe nomads were relatively few and their rulers had difficulty holding together enough clans and tribes to field a large army. If they conquered an agricultural area they often lacked the skills to administer it. If they tried to hold agrarian land they gradually absorbed the civilization of their subjects, lost their nomadic skills and were either assimilated or driven out.\n\nAlong the northern fringe the nomads would collect tribute from and blend with the forest tribes (see Khanate of Sibir, Buryats). From about 1240 to 1480 Russia paid tribute to the Golden Horde. South of the Kazakh steppe the nomads blended with the sedentary population, partly because the Middle East has significant areas of steppe (taken by force in past invasions) and pastoralism. There was a sharp cultural divide between Mongolia and China and almost constant warfare from the dawn of history until 1757. The nomads collected large amounts of tribute from the Chinese and several Chinese dynasties were of steppe origin. Perhaps because of the mixture of agriculture and pastoralism in Manchuria its inhabitants knew how to deal with both nomads and the settled populations, and therefore were able to conquer much of northern China when both Chinese and Mongols were weak.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "237957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=237957", "title": "Explosively pumped flux compression generator", "text": "Explosively pumped flux compression generator\n\nAn explosively pumped flux compression generator (EPFCG) is a device used to generate a high-power electromagnetic pulse by compressing magnetic flux using high explosive.\n\nAn EPFCG only ever generates a single pulse as the device is physically destroyed during operation. An EPFCG package that could be easily carried by a person can produce pulses in the millions of amperes and tens of terawatts. They require a starting current pulse to operate, usually supplied by capacitors.\n\nExplosively pumped flux compression generators are used to create ultrahigh magnetic fields in physics and materials science research and extremely intense pulses of electric current for pulsed power applications. They are being investigated as power sources for electronic warfare devices known as transient electromagnetic devices that generate an electromagnetic pulse without the costs, side effects, or enormous range of a nuclear electromagnetic pulse device. \n\nThe first work on these generators was conducted by the VNIIEF center for nuclear research in Sarov in Soviet Union at the beginning of the 1950s followed by Los Alamos National Laboratory in the United States.\n\nAt the start of the 1950s, the need for very short and powerful electrical pulses became evident to Soviet scientists conducting nuclear fusion research. The Marx generator, which stores energy in capacitors, was the only device capable at the time of producing such high power pulses. The prohibitive cost of the capacitors required to obtain the desired power motivated the search for a more economical device. The first magneto-explosive generators, which followed from the ideas of Andrei Sakharov, were designed to fill this role.\n\nMagneto-explosive generators use a technique called \"magnetic flux compression\", described in detail below. The technique is made possible when the time scales over which the device operates are sufficiently brief that resistive current loss is negligible, and the magnetic flux through any surface surrounded by a conductor (copper wire, for example) remains constant, even though the size and shape of the surface may change.\n\nThis flux conservation can be demonstrated from Maxwell's equations. The most intuitive explanation of this conservation of enclosed flux follows from Lenz's law, which says that any change in the flux through an electric circuit will cause a current in the circuit which will oppose the change. For this reason, reducing the area of the surface enclosed by a closed loop conductor with a magnetic field passing through it, which would reduce the magnetic flux, results in the induction of current in the electrical conductor, which tends to keep the enclosed flux at its original value. In magneto-explosive generators, the reduction in area is accomplished by detonating explosives packed around a conductive tube or disk, so the resulting implosion compresses the tube or disk. Since flux is equal to the magnitude of the magnetic field multiplied by the area of the surface, as the surface area shrinks the magnetic field strength inside the conductor increases. The compression process partially transforms the chemical energy of the explosives into the energy of an intense magnetic field surrounded by a correspondingly large electric current. \n\nThe purpose of the flux generator can be either the generation of an extremely strong magnetic field pulse, or an extremely strong electric current pulse; in the latter case the closed conductor is attached to an external electric circuit. This technique has been used to create the most intense manmade magnetic fields on Earth; fields up to about 1000 teslas (about 1000 times the strength of a typical permanent magnet) can be created for a few microseconds. \n\nAn external magnetic field (blue lines) threads a closed ring made of a perfect conductor (with zero resistance). The total magnetic flux formula_1 through the ring is equal to the magnetic field formula_2 multiplied by the area formula_3 of the surface spanning the ring. The nine field lines represent the magnetic flux threading the ring.\nSuppose the ring is deformed, reducing its cross-sectional area. The magnetic flux threading the ring, represented by five field lines, is reduced by the same ratio as the area of the ring. The variation of the magnetic flux induces a current \"(red arrows)\" in the ring by Faraday's law of induction, which in turn creates a new magnetic field circling the wire \"(green arrows)\" by Ampere's circuital law. The new magnetic field opposes the field outside the ring but adds to the field inside, so that the total flux in the interior of the ring is maintained: four green field lines added to the five blue lines give the original nine field lines.\nBy adding together the external magnetic field and the induced field, it can be shown that the net result is that the magnetic field lines originally threading the hole stay inside the hole, thus flux is conserved, and a current has been created in the conductive ring. The magnetic field lines are \"pinched\" closer together, so the (average) magnetic field intensity inside the ring increases by the ratio of the original area to the final area. \n\nThe simple basic principle of flux compression can be applied in a variety of different ways. Soviet scientists at the VNIIEF in Sarov, pioneers in this domain, conceived of three different types of generators:\n\n\nSuch generators can, if necessary, be utilised independently, or even assembled in a chain of successive stages: the energy produced by each generator is transferred to the next, which amplifies the pulse, and so on. For example, it is foreseen that the DEMG generator will be supplied by a MK-2 type generator.\n\nIn the spring of 1952, R.Z. Lyudaev, E.A. Feoktistova, G.A. Tsyrkov, and A.A. Chvileva\nundertook the first experiment with this type of generator, with the goal of obtaining a very high magnetic field.\n\nThe MK-1 generator functions as follows:\n\nThe first experiments were able to attain magnetic fields of millions of gauss (hundreds of teslas), given an initial field of 30 kG (3 T) which is in the free space \"air\" the same as H = B/μ = (3 V/m) / (4π × 10 V/Am) = (approximately 2.4 MA/m).\n\nHelical generators were principally conceived to deliver an intense current to a load situated at a safe distance. They are frequently used as the first stage of a multi-stage generator, with the exit current used to generate a very intense magnetic field in a second generator.\nThe MK-2 generators function as follows:\n\nThe MK-2 generator is particularly interesting for the production of intense currents, up to 10 A (100 MA), as well as a very high energy magnetic field, as up to 20% of the explosive energy can be converted to magnetic energy, and the field strength can attain 2 × 10 gauss (200 T).\n\nThe practical realization of high performance MK-2 systems required the pursuit of fundamental studies by a large team of researchers; this was effectively achieved by 1956, following the production of the first MK-2 generator in 1952, and the achievement of currents over 100 megaamperes from 1953.\n\nA DEMG generator functions as follows:\n\nSystems using up to 25 modules have been developed at VNIIEF. Output of 100 MJ at 256 MA have been produced by a generator a metre in diameter composed of three modules.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43882120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43882120", "title": "Great comet", "text": "Great comet\n\nA great comet is a comet that becomes exceptionally bright. There is no official definition; often the term is attached to comets such as Halley's Comet, which are bright enough to be noticed by casual observers who are not looking for them, and become well known outside the astronomical community. Great comets are rare; on average, only one will appear in a decade. Although comets are officially named after their discoverers, great comets are sometimes also referred to by the year in which they appeared great, using the formulation \"The Great Comet of ...\", followed by the year.\n\nThe vast majority of comets are never bright enough to be seen by the naked eye, and generally pass through the inner Solar System unseen by anyone except astronomers. However, occasionally a comet may brighten to naked eye visibility, and even more rarely it may become as bright as or brighter than the brightest stars. The requirements for this to occur are: a large and active nucleus, a close approach to the Sun, and a close approach to the Earth. A comet fulfilling all three of these criteria will certainly be spectacular. Sometimes, a comet failing on one criterion will still be extremely impressive. For example, Comet Hale–Bopp had an exceptionally large and active nucleus, but did not approach the Sun very closely at all, yet it still became an extremely famous and well observed comet. Equally, Comet Hyakutake was a rather small comet, but appeared bright because it passed extremely close to the Earth.\n\nCometary nuclei vary in size from a few hundreds of metres across or less to many kilometres across. When they approach the Sun, large amounts of gas and dust are ejected by cometary nuclei, due to solar heating. A crucial factor in how bright a comet becomes is how large and how active its nucleus is. After many returns to the inner Solar System, cometary nuclei become depleted in volatile materials and thus are much less bright than comets which are making their first passage through the Solar System.\n\nThe sudden brightening of comet 17P/Holmes in 2007 showed the importance of the activity of the nucleus in the comet's brightness. On October 23–24, 2007, the comet suffered a sudden outburst which caused it to brighten by factor of about half a million. It unexpectedly brightened from an apparent magnitude of about 17 to about 2.8 in a period of only 42 hours, making it visible to the naked eye. All these temporarily made comet 17P the largest (by radius) object in the Solar System although its nucleus is estimated to be only about 3.4 km in diameter.\n\nThe brightness of a simple reflective body varies with the inverse square of its distance from the Sun. That is, if an object's distance from the Sun is halved, its brightness is quadrupled. However, comets behave differently, due to their ejection of large amounts of volatile gas which then also reflect sunlight and may also fluoresce. Their brightness varies roughly as the inverse cube of their distance from the Sun, meaning that if a comet's distance from the Sun is halved, it will become eight times as bright.\n\nThis means that the peak brightness of a comet depends significantly on its distance from the Sun. For most comets, the perihelion of their orbit lies outside the Earth's orbit. Any comet approaching the Sun to within 0.5 AU or less may have a chance of becoming a great comet.\n\nFor a comet to become spectacular, it also needs to pass close to the Earth if it is to be easily seen. Halley's Comet, for example, is usually very bright when it passes through the inner Solar System every seventy-six years, but during its 1986 apparition, its closest approach to Earth was almost the most distant possible. The comet became visible to the naked eye, but was unspectacular. On the other hand, the intrinsically small and faint Comet Hyakutake (C/1996 B2) appeared very bright and spectacular due to its very close approach to Earth at its nearest during March 1996. Its passage near the Earth was one of the closest cometary approaches on record.\n\nGreat comets of the past two millennia include the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "31655501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31655501", "title": "Hemispheres of Earth", "text": "Hemispheres of Earth\n\nIn geography and cartography, the hemispheres of Earth refer to any division of the globe into two hemispheres (from Ancient Greek , meaning \"half of a sphere\").\n\nThe most common such divisions are by latitudinal or longitudinal markers:\n\nThe East–West division can also be seen in a cultural sense, as a division into two cultural hemispheres.\n\nHowever, other schemes have sought to divide the planet in a way that maximizes the preponderance of one geographic feature or another in each division:\n\nThe Earth may also be split into hemispheres of day and night by the terrestrial terminator.\n\n"}
{"id": "7071490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7071490", "title": "History of molecular theory", "text": "History of molecular theory\n\nIn chemistry, the history of molecular theory traces the origins of the concept or idea of the existence of strong chemical bonds between two or more atoms.\n\nThe modern concept of molecules can be traced back towards pre-scientific and Greek philosophers such as Leucippus and Democritus who argued that all the universe is composed of atoms and voids. Circa 450 BC Empedocles imagined fundamental elements (fire (), earth (), air (), and water ()) and \"forces\" of attraction and repulsion allowing the elements to interact. Prior to this, Heraclitus had claimed that fire or change was fundamental to our existence, created through the combination of opposite properties. In the Timaeus, Plato, following Pythagoras, considered mathematical entities such as number, point, line and triangle as the fundamental building blocks or elements of this ephemeral world, and considered the four elements of fire, air, water and earth as states of substances through which the true mathematical principles or elements would pass. A fifth element, the incorruptible quintessence aether, was considered to be the fundamental building block of the heavenly bodies. The viewpoint of Leucippus and Empedocles, along with the aether, was accepted by Aristotle and passed to medieval and renaissance Europe. A modern conceptualization of molecules began to develop in the 19th century along with experimental evidence for pure chemical elements and how individual atoms of different chemical substances such as hydrogen and oxygen can combine to form chemically stable molecules such as water molecules.\n\nThe earliest views on the shapes and connectivity of atoms was that proposed by Leucippus, Democritus, and Epicurus who reasoned that the solidness of the material corresponded to the shape of the atoms involved. Thus, iron atoms are solid and strong with hooks that lock them into a solid; water atoms are smooth and slippery; salt atoms, because of their taste, are sharp and pointed; and air atoms are light and whirling, pervading all other materials. It was Democritus that was the main proponent of this view. Using analogies based on the experiences of the senses, he gave a picture or an image of an atom in which atoms were distinguished from each other by their shape, their size, and the arrangement of their parts. Moreover, connections were explained by material links in which single atoms were supplied with attachments: some with hooks and eyes others with balls and sockets (see diagram).\nWith the rise of scholasticism and the decline of the Roman Empire, the atomic theory was abandoned for many ages in favor of the various four element theories and later alchemical theories. The 17th century, however, saw a resurgence in the atomic theory primarily through the works of Gassendi, and Newton. Among other scientists of that time Gassendi deeply studied ancient history, wrote major works about Epicurus natural philosophy and was a persuasive propagandist of it. He reasoned that to account for the size and shape of atoms moving in a void could account for the properties of matter. Heat was due to small, round atoms; cold, to pyramidal atoms with sharp points, which accounted for the pricking sensation of severe cold; and solids were held together by interlacing hooks. Newton, though he acknowledged the various atom attachment theories in vogue at the time, i.e. \"hooked atoms\", \"glued atoms\" (bodies at rest), and the \"stick together by conspiring motions\" theory, rather believed, as famously stated in \"Query 31\" of his 1704 \"Opticks\", that particles attract one another by some force, which \"in immediate contact is extremely strong, at small distances performs the chemical operations, and reaches not far from particles with any sensible effect.\" \n\nIn a more concrete manner, however, the concept of aggregates or units of bonded atoms, i.e. \"molecules\", traces its origins to Robert Boyle's 1661 hypothesis, in his famous treatise \"The Sceptical Chymist\", that matter is composed of \"clusters of particles\" and that chemical change results from the rearrangement of the clusters. Boyle argued that matter's basic elements consisted of various sorts and sizes of particles, called \"corpuscles\", which were capable of arranging themselves into groups.\n\nIn 1680, using the corpuscular theory as a basis, French chemist Nicolas Lemery stipulated that the acidity of any substance consisted in its pointed particles, while alkalis were endowed with pores of various sizes. A molecule, according to this view, consisted of corpuscles united through a geometric locking of points and pores.\n\nAn early precursor to the idea of bonded \"combinations of atoms\", was the theory of \"combination via chemical affinity\". For example, in 1718, building on Boyle’s conception of combinations of clusters, the French chemist Étienne François Geoffroy developed theories of chemical affinity to explain combinations of particles, reasoning that a certain alchemical \"force\" draws certain alchemical components together. Geoffroy's name is best known in connection with his tables of \"affinities\" (\"tables des rapports\"), which he presented to the French Academy in 1718 and 1720.\n\nThese were lists, prepared by collating observations on the actions of substances one upon another, showing the varying degrees of affinity exhibited by analogous bodies for different reagents. These tables retained their vogue for the rest of the century, until displaced by the profounder conceptions introduced by CL Berthollet.\n\nIn 1738, Swiss physicist and mathematician Daniel Bernoulli published \"Hydrodynamica\", which laid the basis for the kinetic theory of gases. In this work, Bernoulli positioned the argument, still used to this day, that gases consist of great numbers of molecules moving in all directions, that their impact on a surface causes the gas pressure that we feel, and that what we experience as heat is simply the kinetic energy of their motion. The theory was not immediately accepted, in part because conservation of energy had not yet been established, and it was not obvious to physicists how the collisions between molecules could be perfectly elastic.\n\nIn 1789, William Higgins published views on what he called combinations of \"ultimate\" particles, which foreshadowed the concept of valency bonds. If, for example, according to Higgins, the force between the ultimate particle of oxygen and the ultimate particle of nitrogen were 6, then the strength of the force would be divided accordingly, and similarly for the other combinations of ultimate particles:\n\nSimilar to these views, in 1803 John Dalton took the atomic weight of hydrogen, the lightest element, as unity, and determined, for example, that the ratio for nitrous anhydride was 2 to 3 which gives the formula NO. Dalton incorrectly imagined that atoms \"hooked\" together to form molecules. Later, in 1808, Dalton published his famous diagram of combined \"atoms\":\n\nAmedeo Avogadro created the word \"molecule\". His 1811 paper \"Essay on Determining the Relative Masses of the Elementary Molecules of Bodies\", he essentially states, i.e. according to Partington's \"A Short History of Chemistry\", that:\n\nNote that this quote is not a literal translation. Avogadro uses the name \"molecule\" for both atoms and molecules. Specifically, he uses the name \"elementary molecule\" when referring to atoms and to complicate the matter also speaks of \"compound molecules\" and \"composite molecules\".\n\nDuring his stay in Vercelli, Avogadro wrote a concise note (\"memoria\") in which he declared the hypothesis of what we now call Avogadro's law: \"equal volumes of gases, at the same temperature and pressure, contain the same number of molecules\". This law implies that the relationship occurring between the weights of same volumes of different gases, at the same temperature and pressure, corresponds to the relationship between respective molecular weights. Hence, relative molecular masses could now be calculated from the masses of gas samples.\n\nAvogadro developed this hypothesis in order to reconcile Joseph Louis Gay-Lussac's 1808 law on volumes and combining gases with Dalton's 1803 atomic theory. The greatest difficulty Avogadro had to resolve was the huge confusion at that time regarding atoms and molecules—one of the most important contributions of Avogadro's work was clearly distinguishing one from the other, admitting that simple particles too could be composed of molecules, and that these are composed of atoms. Dalton, by contrast, did not consider this possibility. Curiously, Avogadro considers only molecules containing even numbers of atoms; he does not say why odd numbers are left out.\n\nIn 1826, building on the work of Avogadro, the French chemist Jean-Baptiste Dumas states:\n\nIn coordination with these concepts, in 1833 the French chemist Marc Antoine Auguste Gaudin presented a clear account of Avogadro's hypothesis, regarding atomic weights, by making use of \"volume diagrams\", which clearly show both semi-correct molecular geometries, such as a linear water molecule, and correct molecular formulas, such as HO:\n\nIn two papers outlining his \"theory of atomicity of the elements\" (1857–58), Friedrich August Kekulé was the first to offer a theory of how every atom in an organic molecule was bonded to every other atom. He proposed that carbon atoms were tetravalent, and could bond to themselves to form the carbon skeletons of organic molecules.\n\nIn 1856, Scottish chemist Archibald Couper began research on the bromination of benzene at the laboratory of Charles Wurtz in Paris. One month after Kekulé's second paper appeared, Couper's independent and largely identical theory of molecular structure was published. He offered a very concrete idea of molecular structure, proposing that atoms joined to each other like modern-day Tinkertoys in specific three-dimensional structures. Couper was the first to use lines between atoms, in conjunction with the older method of using brackets, to represent bonds, and also postulated straight chains of atoms as the structures of some molecules, ring-shaped molecules of others, such as in tartaric acid and cyanuric acid. In later publications, Couper’s bonds were represented using straight dotted lines (although it is not known if this is the typesetter’s preference) such as with alcohol and oxalic acid below:\n\nIn 1861, an unknown Vienna high-school teacher named Joseph Loschmidt published, at his own expense, a booklet entitled \"Chemische Studien I\", containing pioneering molecular images which showed both \"ringed\" structures as well as double-bonded structures, such as:\n\nLoschmidt also suggested a possible formula for benzene, but left the issue open. The first proposal of the modern structure for benzene was due to Kekulé, in 1865. The cyclic nature of benzene was finally confirmed by the crystallographer Kathleen Lonsdale. Benzene presents a special problem in that, to account for all the bonds, there must be alternating double carbon bonds:\n\nIn 1865, German chemist August Wilhelm von Hofmann was the first to make stick-and-ball molecular models, which he used in lecture at the Royal Institution of Great Britain, such as methane shown below:\n\nThe basis of this model followed the earlier 1855 suggestion by his colleague William Odling that carbon is tetravalent. Hofmann's color scheme, to note, is still used to this day: nitrogen = blue, oxygen = red, chlorine = green, sulfur = yellow, hydrogen = white. The deficiencies in Hofmann's model were essentially geometric: carbon bonding was shown as planar, rather than tetrahedral, and the atoms were out of proportion, e.g. carbon was smaller in size than the hydrogen.\n\nIn 1864, Scottish organic chemist Alexander Crum Brown began to draw pictures of molecules, in which he enclosed the symbols for atoms in circles, and used broken lines to connect the atoms together in a way that satisfied each atom's valence.\n\nThe year 1873, by many accounts, was a seminal point in the history of the development of the concept of the \"molecule\". In this year, the renowned Scottish physicist James Clerk Maxwell published his famous thirteen page article 'Molecules' in the September issue of \"Nature\". In the opening section to this article, Maxwell clearly states:\n\nAfter speaking about the atomic theory of Democritus, Maxwell goes on to tell us that the word 'molecule' is a modern word. He states, \"it does not occur in \"Johnson's Dictionary\". The ideas it embodies are those belonging to modern chemistry.\" We are told that an 'atom' is a material point, invested and surrounded by 'potential forces' and that when 'flying molecules' strike against a solid body in constant succession it causes what is called pressure of air and other gases. At this point, however, Maxwell notes that no one has ever seen or handled a molecule.\n\nIn 1874, Jacobus Henricus van 't Hoff and Joseph Achille Le Bel independently proposed that the phenomenon of optical activity could be explained by assuming that the chemical bonds between carbon atoms and their neighbors were directed towards the corners of a regular tetrahedron. This led to a better understanding of the three-dimensional nature of molecules.\n\nEmil Fischer developed the Fischer projection technique for viewing 3-D molecules on a 2-D sheet of paper:\n\nIn 1898, Ludwig Boltzmann, in his \"Lectures on Gas Theory\", used the theory of valence to explain the phenomenon of gas phase molecular dissociation, and in doing so drew one of the first rudimentary yet detailed atomic orbital overlap drawings. Noting first the known fact that molecular iodine vapor dissociates into atoms at higher temperatures, Boltzmann states that we must explain the existence of molecules composed of two atoms, the \"double atom\" as Boltzmann calls it, by an attractive force acting between the two atoms. Boltzmann states that this chemical attraction, owing to certain facts of chemical valence, must be associated with a relatively small region on the surface of the atom called the \"sensitive region\".\n\nBoltzmann states that this \"sensitive region\" will lie on the surface of the atom, or may partially lie inside the atom, and will firmly be connected to it. Specifically, he states \"only when two atoms are situated so that their sensitive regions are in contact, or partly overlap, will there be a chemical attraction between them. We then say that they are chemically bound to each other.\" This picture is detailed below, showing the \"α-sensitive region\" of atom-A overlapping with the \"β-sensitive region\" of atom-B:\n\nIn the early 20th century, the American chemist Gilbert N. Lewis began to use dots in lecture, while teaching undergraduates at Harvard, to represent the electrons around atoms. His students favored these drawings, which stimulated him in this direction. From these lectures, Lewis noted that elements with a certain number of electrons seemed to have a special stability. This phenomenon was pointed out by the German chemist Richard Abegg in 1904, to which Lewis referred to as \"Abegg's law of valence\" (now generally known as Abegg's rule). To Lewis it appeared that once a core of eight electrons has formed around a nucleus, the layer is filled, and a new layer is started. Lewis also noted that various ions with eight electrons also seemed to have a special stability. On these views, he proposed the rule of eight or octet rule: \"Ions or atoms with a filled layer of eight electrons have a special stability\".\n\nMoreover, noting that a cube has eight corners Lewis envisioned an atom as having eight sides available for electrons, like the corner of a cube. Subsequently, in 1902 he devised a conception in which cubic atoms can bond on their sides to form cubic-structured molecules.\n\nIn other words, electron-pair bonds are formed when two atoms share an edge, as in structure C below. This results in the sharing of two electrons. Similarly, charged ionic-bonds are formed by the transfer of an electron from one cube to another, without sharing an edge A. An intermediate state B where only one corner is shared was also postulated by Lewis.\n\nHence, double bonds are formed by sharing a face between two cubic atoms. This results in the sharing of four electrons.\n\nIn 1913, while working as the chair of the department of chemistry at the University of California, Berkeley, Lewis read a preliminary outline of paper by an English graduate student, Alfred Lauck Parson, who was visiting Berkeley for a year. In this paper, Parson suggested that the electron is not merely an electric charge but is also a small magnet (or \"magneton\" as he called it) and furthermore that a chemical bond results from two electrons being shared between two atoms. This, according to Lewis, meant that bonding occurred when two electrons formed a shared edge between two complete cubes.\n\nOn these views, in his famous 1916 article \"The Atom and the Molecule\", Lewis introduced the \"Lewis structure\" to represent atoms and molecules, where dots represent electrons and lines represent covalent bonds. In this article, he developed the concept of the electron-pair bond, in which two atoms may share one to six electrons, thus forming the single electron bond, a single bond, a double bond, or a triple bond.\n\nIn Lewis' own words:\nMoreover, he proposed that an atom tended to form an ion by gaining or losing the number of electrons needed to complete a cube. Thus, Lewis structures show each atom in the structure of the molecule using its chemical symbol. Lines are drawn between atoms that are bonded to one another; occasionally, pairs of dots are used instead of lines. Excess electrons that form lone pairs are represented as pair of dots, and are placed next to the atoms on which they reside:\n\nTo summarize his views on his new bonding model, Lewis states:\n\nThe following year, in 1917, an unknown American undergraduate chemical engineer named Linus Pauling was learning the Dalton hook-and-eye bonding method at the Oregon Agricultural College, which was the vogue description of bonds between atoms at the time. Each atom had a certain number of hooks that allowed it to attach to other atoms, and a certain number of eyes that allowed other atoms to attach to it. A chemical bond resulted when a hook and eye connected. Pauling, however, wasn't satisfied with this archaic method and looked to the newly emerging field of quantum physics for a new method.\n\nIn 1927, the physicists Fritz London and Walter Heitler applied the new quantum mechanics to the deal with the saturable, nondynamic forces of attraction and repulsion, i.e., exchange forces, of the hydrogen molecule. Their valence bond treatment of this problem, in their joint paper, was a landmark in that it brought chemistry under quantum mechanics. Their work was an influence on Pauling, who had just received his doctorate and visited Heitler and London in Zürich on a Guggenheim Fellowship.\n\nSubsequently, in 1931, building on the work of Heitler and London and on theories found in Lewis' famous article, Pauling published his ground-breaking article \"The Nature of the Chemical Bond\" (see: manuscript) in which he used quantum mechanics to calculate properties and structures of molecules, such as angles between bonds and rotation about bonds. On these concepts, Pauling developed hybridization theory to account for bonds in molecules such as CH, in which four sp³ hybridised orbitals are overlapped by hydrogen's \"1s\" orbital, yielding four sigma (σ) bonds. The four bonds are of the same length and strength, which yields a molecular structure as shown below:\n\nOwing to these exceptional theories, Pauling won the 1954 Nobel Prize in Chemistry. Notably he has been the only person to ever win two unshared Nobel prizes, winning the Nobel Peace Prize in 1963.\n\nIn 1926, French physicist Jean Perrin received the Nobel Prize in physics for proving, conclusively, the existence of molecules. He did this by calculating Avogadro's number using three different methods, all involving liquid phase systems. First, he used a gamboge soap-like emulsion, second by doing experimental work on Brownian motion, and third by confirming Einstein’s theory of particle rotation in the liquid phase.\n\nIn 1937, chemist K.L. Wolf introduced the concept of supermolecules (\"Übermoleküle\") to describe hydrogen bonding in acetic acid dimers. This would eventually lead to the area of supermolecular chemistry, which is the study of non-covalent bonding.\n\nIn 1951, physicist Erwin Wilhelm Müller invents the field ion microscope and is the first to see atoms, e.g. bonded atomic arrangements at the tip of a metal point.\n\nIn 1999, researchers from the University of Vienna reported results from experiments on wave-particle duality for C molecules. The data published by Zeilinger et al. were consistent with de Broglie wave interference for C molecules. This experiment was noted for extending the applicability of wave–particle duality by about one order of magnitude in the macroscopic direction.\n\nIn 2009, researchers from IBM managed to take the first picture of a real molecule. Using an atomic force microscope every single atom and bond of a pentacene molecule could be imaged.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18672144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18672144", "title": "Hollow Earth Expedition", "text": "Hollow Earth Expedition\n\nHollow Earth Expedition is a pulp fiction role-playing game set in the fictitious Hollow Earth (see Hollow Earth theory), published by Exile Game Studio. The game has been nominated for several Origins and ENnie awards since its release in 2006. The main rule book is \"Hollow Earth Expedition\".\n\n\"Hollow Earth Expedition\" uses the Ubiquity rules, which were also created by Exile Game Studio. The main feature of the system is its use of binary dice pool rolls to determine success. Under the default rules, each even number rolled counts as a success, while odd numbers count as nothing. Odd 'nothings' do not cancel out even 'successes', making dice rolling quick and simple. This binary system has also led to the development of special Ubiquity Dice, which are not detailed below.\n\nHollow Earth Expedition is set in the 1930s. On the surface, everything appears as it does in our real world history books, but if you dig a little deeper you encounter secret societies and villainous organizations, many of whom have a vested interest in the Hollow Earth.\n\nTwo organizations are detailed in the main rulebook: the Terra Arcana and the Thule Society. Further organizations are listed in the first expansion, Secrets of the Surface World.\n\nThe Terra Arcanum is an esoteric society dedicated to keeping the Hollow Earth a secret. They have their foundations deep in the mists of time, and only a few of their current members realize their true origins.\n\nThe Thule Society are based on an actual organization associated with the Nazi Party during World War II. In HEX they have a deep interest in getting into the Hollow Earth and the powerful ancient weapons they believe are kept there.\n\nThe Hollow Earth boasts a wide selection of beasts and humans. Dinosaurs and other extinct creatures still live and hunt and are hunted by the various human groups who have become stranded in the Hollow Earth over the centuries. Not a great deal of detail is provided about the Hollow Earth in the main book, allowing Game Masters to customize the terrain to suit their campaign.\n\nMysteries of the Hollow Earth expands a great deal on the denizens of Hollow Earth, including rules for beastmen of various sorts, and provides details such as a map and gazetteer for those GMs who want a more fleshed-out world, rather than the more nebulous \"land of mysteries\" from the core book.\n\nRevelations of Mars expands the setting to include the dying and dangerous Red Planet.\n\nExplore a desolate world filled with strange aliens, bizarre creatures, and ancient artifacts buried beneath its shifting sands. Discover xenophobic nomads roaming the wastelands, sky pirates prowling the air in their great flying vessels, and power-hungry warlords fighting over dwindling resources. Take shelter within one of the great walled city-states, and rub shoulders with haughty nobles, devout priests, and greedy merchants who plot and scheme therein.\n\n\nHollow Earth Expedition\n\nENnies:\n\nOrigins:\n\nHollow Earth Expedition GM Screen\n\nENnies:\n\nOrigins:\n\nSecrets of the Surface World\n\nENnies:\n\nMysteries of The Hollow Earth\n\nENnies:\n\nPerils of the Surface World\n\nENnies:\n\n"}
{"id": "5580987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5580987", "title": "Jim Harris (naturalist)", "text": "Jim Harris (naturalist)\n\nJames Patrick Harris (born 1954), better known as Jim Harris, is an American naturalist, writer, and artist from El Paso, Texas.\n\nBy his own admission \"somewhat less than outstanding\" in the classroom environment, Harris nonetheless managed to (eventually) obtain advanced degrees in both zoology and wildlife management. He attended (at various times) Sul Ross State University, Texas A & M University, the University of Texas at El Paso, the University of Hawaii, the University of Guam, and the University of Rhodesia. Much of his formal education was obtained while on active military duty. \n\nHarris spent several decades roaming the world, working at a variety of occupations ranging from farrier to hunting guide to prospector. Such widespread travels presented the opportunity for first-hand interaction with such exotic species as aardwolves, echidnas, and megamouth sharks (these and other creatures later appeared in his syndicated newspaper column, \"Animal Journal\"). He has since returned to his native Southwest, where he lives in an adobe home surrounded by native desert vegetation and wildlife.\n\nHarris' work has appeared in such magazines as Troika magazine, \"Enchanted Rock\", and \"Pacific\" \"Star\". He is the author of \"Lone Star Menagerie: Adventures with Texas\" \"Wildlife\" (2000) and formerly wrote and illustrated the syndicated column \"Animal Journal\".\n\n"}
{"id": "10917133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10917133", "title": "John Hardy (jewelry)", "text": "John Hardy (jewelry)\n\nJohn Hardy is a jewelry company. Founded by John Hardy in 1975, the company is known for its Asian inspired designs and classical/traditional handmade jewelry techniques. It markets itself as a \"sustainable luxury\" brand.\n\nJohn Hardy jewelry was founded by Canadian designer and artist, John Hardy, in 1975. He visited Bali in the mid-1970s and the island's jewelry-making traditions raised his interest. He began learning the techniques of the local artisans then developed his first pieces by applying new design concepts to traditional Balinese techniques.\n\nThe John Hardy compound was built in Mumbal, Bali in 1996 and is the company production center where the jewelry is created. It also serves as a living and gathering space with an organic farm and low impact buildings.\n\nIn 1999, Guy Bedarida, a senior designer of haute joaillerie of the Place Vendôme, joined the company as Head Designer and expanded Hardy’s design concepts to include the use of classical European jewelry techniques and new motifs inspired by nature and ancient East Asian art styles and themes.\n\nIn 2007, then John Hardy president Damien Dernoncourt, with Head Designer and Creative Director, Bedarida, purchased the company from Hardy. That same year the company headquarters was moved to Hong Kong and a satellite office was opened in New York.\n\nThe company opened its first flagship store in Plaza Indonesia, Jakarta in 2010. In 2011, it opened its first store at The Landmark, Hong Kong. In 2014, two more stores were opened in Bali, Indonesia.\n\nOn July 31, 2014, John Hardy announced that Robert Hanson, former CEO of American Eagle Outfitters, Inc., was appointed CEO.\n\nSummer 2016, John Hardy opened its first U.S. boutique in Houston and is scheduled to open the second on the Island of Manhattan. The building at 11 Prince Street, between Greene and Wooster streets in the SoHo neighborhood, will take up an entire building over three floors.\n\nJohn Hardy jewelry is known for its designs in sterling silver and for using classical/traditional Balinese jewelry-making techniques and patterns to create modern pieces.\n\n\"Greener Every Day\" is a company slogan used to summarize and describe its efforts to be a \"green\" company (the ultimate goal being to become carbon neutral). In 2006, John Hardy launched its \"Sustainable Advertising\" program to offset the carbon emissions from its print advertising, business travel and electricity consumption. It does so by planting bamboo on Bali and Nusa Penida, a small island off the coast of Bali. Through its \"Wear Bamboo, Plant Bamboo\" program, a portion of the proceeds from the sale of its Bamboo collection items are used to fund the company’s continuous bamboo plantings. As of August 2012, the company uses 100% recycled silver in all designs.\n\nOn July 31, 2014 Catterton Partners, a leading private equity firm, acquired John Hardy and announced that Robert Hanson would take over as Chief Executive Officer.\n\n"}
{"id": "3181121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3181121", "title": "Lepidocrocite", "text": "Lepidocrocite\n\nLepidocrocite (γ-FeO(OH)), also called esmeraldite or hydrohematite, is an iron oxide-hydroxide mineral. Lepidocrocite has an orthorhombic crystal structure, a hardness of 5, specific gravity of 4, a submetallic luster and a yellow-brown streak. It is red to reddish brown and forms when iron-containing substances rust underwater. Lepidocrocite is commonly found in the weathering of primary iron minerals and in iron ore deposits. It can be seen as rust scale inside old steel water pipes and water tanks.\n\nThe structure of lepidocrocite is similar to the boehmite structure found in bauxite and consists of layered iron(III) oxide octahedra bonded by hydrogen bonding via hydroxide layers. This relatively weakly bonded layering accounts for the \"scaley\" habit of the mineral.\n\nIt was first described in 1813 from the Zlaté Hory polymetallic ore deposit in Moravia, Czech Republic. The name is from the Greek \"lipis\" for \"scale\" and \"krokis\" for \"fibre.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "23880349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23880349", "title": "List of Agaricales families", "text": "List of Agaricales families\n\nThe Agaricales are an order of fungi in the class Agaricomycetes (division Basidiomycota). It is the largest group of mushroom-forming fungi, and includes more than 400 genera and over 13,000 species. Molecular phylogenetics analyses of ribosomal DNA sequences has led to advances in our understanding of the Agaricales, and substantially revised previous assessments of families and genera. The following families are in the Agaricales, according to the 10th edition of the \"Dictionary of the Fungi\" (2008) with some additions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10409314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10409314", "title": "List of Arabic star names", "text": "List of Arabic star names\n\nThis is a list of Arabic star names. In Western astronomy, most of the accepted star names are Arabic, a few are Greek and some are of unknown origin. Typically only bright stars have names.\n\nVery old star names originated among people who lived in the Arabian Peninsula more than a thousand years ago, before the rise of Islam. However, many Arabic language star names sprang up later in history, as translations of ancient Greek language descriptions.\n\nThe astronomer Claudius Ptolemy in his \"Almagest\" (2nd century) tabulated the celestial position and brightness (visual magnitude) of 1,025 stars. Ptolemy's book was translated into Arabic in the 8th and 9th centuries and became famous in Europe as a 12th-century Latin translation. Many of the Arabic-language star descriptions in the \"Almagest\" came to be widely used as names for stars.\n\nPtolemy used a strategy of \"figure reference\" to identify stars according to their position within a familiar constellation or asterism (e.g., \"in the right shoulder of The Hunter\"). Muslim astronomers adopted some of these as proper names for stars, and added names from traditional Arabic star lore, which they recorded in various Zij treatises. The most notable of these is the \"Book of Fixed Stars\" written by the Muslim astronomer Abd al-Rahman al-Sufi (known as \"Azophi\" in the West), who thoroughly illustrated all the stars known to him along with their observations, descriptions, positions, magnitudes, brightness, and color.\n\nIn Europe, during the Middle Ages and Renaissance, many ancient star names were copied or translated incorrectly by various writers, some of whom did not know the Arabic language very well. As a result, the history of a star's name can be complicated.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11096667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11096667", "title": "List of Superfund sites in American Samoa", "text": "List of Superfund sites in American Samoa\n\nThis is a list of Superfund sites in American Samoa designated under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) environmental law:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12446384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12446384", "title": "List of brown dwarfs", "text": "List of brown dwarfs\n\nThis is a list of brown dwarfs. These are objects that have masses between heavy gas giants and low-mass stars. The first isolated brown dwarf discovered was Teide 1 in 1995. The first brown dwarf discovered orbiting a star was Gliese 229 B, also discovered in 1995. The first brown dwarf found to have a planet was 2M1207, discovered in 2004. , more than 2,800 brown dwarfs have been identified. An isolated object with less than about 13 Jupiter masses is technically a sub-brown dwarf or rogue planet.\n\nBecause the mass of a brown dwarf is between that of a planet and that of a star, they have also been called planetars or hyperjovians. Various catalog designations have been used to name brown dwarfs. Brown dwarfs with names ending in a letter such as B, C, or D are in orbit around a primary star; those with names ending in a lower-case letter such as b, c, or d, were first thought to be exoplanets (see Exoplanet naming convention).\n\nSome exoplanets, especially those detected by radial velocity, can turn out to be brown dwarfs if their mass is higher than originally thought: most have only known minimum masses because the inclination of their orbit is not known. Examples include HD 114762 b (>11.68 M), Pi Mensae b (>10.312 M), and NGC 2423-3 b (>10.6 M).\n\n\"Sorted by increasing right ascension of the parent star. Brown dwarfs within a system sorted by increasing orbital period.\"\n\n\"Sorted by increasing right ascension of the parent star. Brown dwarfs within a system sorted by increasing orbital period.\"\n\n\"Sorted by increasing right ascension.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12807015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12807015", "title": "List of climate change initiatives", "text": "List of climate change initiatives\n\nThis is a list of climate change initiatives of international, national, regional, and local political initiatives to take action on climate change (global warming).\n\nA Climate Action Plan (CAP) is a set of strategies intended to guide efforts for climate change mitigation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26422216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26422216", "title": "List of critically endangered plants", "text": "List of critically endangered plants\n\nAs of September 2016, the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) lists 2493 critically endangered plant species, including 145 which are tagged as \"possibly extinct\" or \"possibly extinct in the wild\". 11% of all evaluated plant species are listed as critically endangered. \nThe IUCN also lists 89 subspecies and 70 varieties as critically endangered.\n\nAdditionally 1674 plant species (7.6% of those evaluated) are listed as \"data deficient\", meaning there is insufficient information for a full assessment of conservation status. As these species typically have small distributions and/or populations, they are intrinsically likely to be threatened, according to the IUCN. While the category of \"data deficient\" indicates that no assessment of extinction risk has been made for the taxa, the IUCN notes that it may be appropriate to give them \"the same degree of attention as threatened taxa, at least until their status can be assessed.\"\n\nThis is a complete list of critically endangered plant species, subspecies and varieties evaluated by the IUCN. Species considered possibly extinct by the IUCN are marked as such.\nThere are 23 bryophyte species assessed as critically endangered.\nThere are 67 species and three varieties of pteridophyte assessed as critically endangered.\nThere are 54 species and three varieties in the class Polypodiopsida assessed as critically endangered.\nThere are 49 species and three varieties in the order Polypodiales assessed as critically endangered.\n\nSpecies\n\nVarieties\n\nThere are 81 species, five subspecies, and 13 varieties of gymnosperm assessed as critically endangered.\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\nVarieties\nThere are 1895 species, 78 subspecies, and 49 varieties of dicotyledon assessed as critically endangered.\n\nSpecies\n\nVarieties\n\nThere are 62 species and 12 subspecies in Campanulales assessed as critically endangered.\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\n\nThere are 295 species and 23 subspecies in Theales assessed as critically endangered.\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\nVarieties\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\n\nSpecies\n\nVarieties\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\n\nVarieties\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\n\nThere are 74 species, two subspecies, and ten varieties in Euphorbiales assessed as critically endangered.\n\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\nVarieties\nThere are 40 species in the order Laurales assessed as critically endangered.\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\n\nThere are 45 species in Ebenales assessed as critically endangered.\n\n\nThere are 29 species and two subspecies in the order Celastrales assessed as critically endangered.\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\n\n\nThere are 97 species and five varieties in the order Myrtales assessed as critically endangered.\n\nSpecies\n\nVarieties\n\nSpecies\nVarieties\n\n\nThere are 70 species, three subspecies, and five varieties in the order Sapindales assessed as critically endangered.\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\nVarieties\n\nSpecies\nVarieties\n\nSpecies\n\nVarieties\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\n\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\n\nVarieties\nThere are 63 species and three subspecies in the order Magnoliales assessed as critically endangered.\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\n\nThere are 30 species and one variety in Capparales assessed as critically endangered.\n\nSpecies\n\nVarieties\n\nThere are 51 species and two varieties in the order Apiales assessed as critically endangered.\n\nSpecies\n\nVarieties\n\nThere are 41 species, two subspecies, and one variety in the order Gentianales assessed as critically endangered.\n\nSpecies\n\nVarieties\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\n\nThere are 48 species, two subspecies, and one variety in the order Rosales assessed as critically endangered.\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\n\nSpecies\n\nVarieties\n\nThere are 28 species and one variety in Primulales assessed as critically endangered.\n\nSpecies\nVarieties\n\nSpecies\n\nVarieties\n\nSpecies\n\nVarieties\n\nSpecies\n\nVarieties\n\nThere are 75 species, two subspecies, and one variety in the order Scrophulariales assessed as critically endangered.\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\nVarieties\n\nThere are 64 species and three varieties in the order Lamiales assessed as critically endangered.\n\nSpecies\n\nVarieties\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\n\nSpecies\n\nVarieties\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\nVarieties\n\nThere are 145 species, two subspecies, and one variety in the order Caryophyllales assessed as critically endangered.\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\n\nSpecies\n\nVarieties\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\n\nSpecies\n\nVarieties\n\nThere are 421 species, six subspecies, and five varieties of monocotyledon assessed as critically endangered.\n\nSpecies\n\nVarieties\nThere are 167 species and one subspecies in Orchidales assessed as critically endangered.\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\n\nThere are 37 species, two subspecies, and two varieties in Cyperales assessed as critically endangered.\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\nVarieties\n\nSpecies\n\nVarieties\n\nSpecies\n\nSubspecies\n\n"}
{"id": "24728450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24728450", "title": "List of dams and reservoirs in the Harz", "text": "List of dams and reservoirs in the Harz\n\nIn the Harz mountains there is a higher than average number of dams with their associated reservoirs. The reason is that the Harz is one of the regions with the heaviest rainfall in Germany and so its water power was utilised very early on. The first dam (on the Upper Harz Ponds) was built in order to drive water-powered pumps and stamp mills used in the mines.\n\nAt the present time the Harz reservoirs provide hydro-electricity, drinking water and flood protection, particularly when the snows melt in spring.\n\nThe following is a list of dams in the Harz:\n\n\nIn addition, according to the definition of a dam, 30 of the Upper Harz Ponds (\"Teiche\") also count as dams in the Harz. These elements of the Upper Harz Water Regale belong to the oldest working dams in Germany.\n\nList of reservoirs and dams in Germany\n\n"}
{"id": "7480762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7480762", "title": "List of electricity distribution companies of Pakistan", "text": "List of electricity distribution companies of Pakistan\n\nDistribution company (DISCO) is a company under Pakistan Electric Power Company (PEPCO) and is responsible for distribution of electricity in their respective allocated areas. They buy electricity from Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA), PEPCO and other private Independent Power Producers (IPPs) and sell it to their respective area customers. All companies are owned by the Government of Pakistan except K-Electric which was privatized.\n\nFollowing are the distribution companies (DISCOs) operating in Pakistan:\n\n"}
{"id": "51809281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51809281", "title": "List of glaciers in Svalbard", "text": "List of glaciers in Svalbard\n\nThis is a list of glaciers in Svalbard. It includes glaciers and ice caps in Svalbard, Norway. \n\n"}
{"id": "42477242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42477242", "title": "List of largest lakes and seas in the Solar System", "text": "List of largest lakes and seas in the Solar System\n\nListed below are the largest lakes and seas on various worlds in the Solar System. The table includes single bodies of water or other liquid on or near the surface of a solid body (terrestrial planet, planetoid, or moon). All objects on this list are expected to be round, hence anything that is part of a belt or disc is expected to be a dwarf planet.\n\nCold surface oceans or lakes are found on two worlds, Earth and Saturn's moon Titan. Lava lakes are found on Earth and Jupiter's moon Io. Subsurface oceans or seas occur on the other Galilean moons of Jupiter, Saturn's moons Titan and Enceladus, and are suspected to exist on the some of Saturn's other moons, the asteroid Ceres, the larger trans-Neptunian objects, and ice planets in planetary systems. Recent analysis of the interior of Ganymede (the largest moon of Jupiter), taking into account the effects of salt, suggests that it and some of the other icy bodies may not have a single interior global ocean but several stacked ones, separated by different phases of ice, with the lowest liquid layer adjacent to the rocky mantle below.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8266037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8266037", "title": "List of the mosses of Britain and Ireland", "text": "List of the mosses of Britain and Ireland\n\nA list of the mosses of Britain and Ireland, the British Isles.\n\n"}
{"id": "52372418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52372418", "title": "Littoral cone", "text": "Littoral cone\n\nLittoral cones are a form of volcanic cone. They form from the interaction between lava flows and water. Steam explosions fragment the lava and the fragments can pile up and form a cone. Such cones usually form on aa lava flows, and typically require large lava flows to form. They have been found on Hawaii and elsewhere.\n\nLittoral cones are semicircular cones which are breached in the direction of the lava flow that created them. They are formed by mounds of clasts that appear like cones without a crater. Littoral cones are constructed by volcanic ash, lava bombs and lapilli. Their component material is usually poorly sorted and can feature agglutinated structures and layering. Sometimes spatter-fed lava flows occur on such cones. They are formed by degassed hyaloclastite. The most common form found on Hawaii involves two semicircles on both sides of the lava flow that generated them; some such cones on Hawaii form a complete rim with diameters of . Puu Ki on Hawaii has nested craters on top of a lava tube. Typically such cones are not larger than wide and high. Other smaller cones on Hawaii have diameters of and heights reaching .\n\nLittoral cones not primary volcanic vents and distinguishing between a littoral cone and a primary vent can be difficult. A littoral cone forms when lava flows from land into water. Interaction between the water and the lava leads to steam explosions. These explosions throw lava fragments into the air; under favourable circumstances these fragments pile up on land and form a cone. This activity may resemble that of fire fountaining. Repeated phases of magma-water mixing lead to the formation of bedded deposits. The steam explosions can lead to the formation of Pele's hair. The forming lava flows need to be sufficiently large; the minimum size of lava flows that have formed such cones in Hawaii is . Of these, about 5-6% of their volume is converted to fragments. Usually littoral cones are formed by aa lava as their fragmented nature allows ideal water-lava interactions, but pahoehoe and intermediary lavas can also form littoral cones. Other properties such as the speed of the lava flow and the structure of the flow front also influence the formation of littoral cones. Larger lava flow rates generate larger cones. In some littoral cones on Hawaii that were formed by pahoehoe lava flows, the collapse of a lava bench and subsequent steam explosions formed the cones instead. Pyroclastic flows can also form littoral cones, one such cone has been found on Lombok and formed during the 1257 Samalas eruption.\n\nPseudocraters and littoral cones have been found on Iceland, Hawaii, Cerro Azul in the Gálapagos Islands, Deception Island, Antarctica, and Medicine Lake Volcano, California. Sometimes the words \"pseudocrater\" and \"littoral cone\" are used as synonyms. Littoral cones are usually quickly removed by sea erosion; thus littoral cones are rare.\n\nPrehistorical littoral cones have been found on the coast of Hawaii, where the volcanoes Mauna Loa and Kilauea face the sea. They were named \"littoral cones\" by Wentworth in 1938. About 50 large cones are found on these two volcanoes and only three of them were formed during historical times; no such cones have been found on the other Hawaiian volcanoes. The Puu Oo and Mauna Ulu eruptions of Kilauea have also formed small littoral cones.\n\nExamples of littoral cones include Sand Hills (1840 eruption) on Kilauea in Hawaii, 'Au'au, Nā Pu'u a Pele, Pu'u Hou (1868 eruption) and Pu'u Kī (eruption 1300 years ago) at Mauna Loa on Hawaii, a cone close to Villamil at Sierra Negra, Galapagos, Eldborg (1800 years ago) at Hengill on Iceland, a cone in the Winter Water unit of the Columbia Plateau Basalts, Oregon, a cone at Becharof Lake, Alaska, Burilan and Devil Rock on Gaua, and Ponta de Ferraria (eruption 840 ± 60 years ago) on São Miguel Island, Azores. The Speedwell Vent in Derbyshire, United Kingdom may also be a littoral cone of Carboniferous age. Pleistocene littoral cones may also exist in Lake Tahoe, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "16880508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16880508", "title": "Magnetospheric Multiscale Mission", "text": "Magnetospheric Multiscale Mission\n\nThe Magnetospheric Multiscale Mission (MMS) is a NASA unmanned space mission to study the Earth's magnetosphere, using four identical spacecraft flying in a tetrahedral formation. The spacecraft were launched on 13 March 2015 at 02:44 UTC. It is designed to gather information about the microphysics of magnetic reconnection, energetic particle acceleration, and turbulence, processes that occur in many astrophysical plasmas.\n\nThe mission builds upon the successes of the ESA Cluster mission, but will surpass it in spatial resolution and in temporal resolution, allowing for the first time measurements of the critical electron diffusion region, the site where magnetic reconnection occurs. Its orbit is optimized to spend extended periods in locations where reconnection is known to occur: at the dayside magnetopause, the place where the pressure from the solar wind and the planets' magnetic field are equal; and in the magnetotail, which is formed by pressure from the solar wind on a planet's magnetosphere and which can extend great distances away from its originating planet.\n\nMagnetic reconnection in Earth's magnetosphere is one of the mechanisms responsible for the aurora, and it is important to the science of controlled nuclear fusion because it is one mechanism preventing magnetic confinement of the fusion fuel. These mechanisms are studied in outer space by the measurement of motions of matter in stellar atmospheres, like that of the Sun. Magnetic reconnection is a phenomenon in which energy may be efficiently transferred from a magnetic field to the motion of charged particles.\n\nThe MMS mission consists of four spacecraft. Each has a launch mass of . In their stowed launch configuration, each are approximately , and when stacked together they have a total height of . After being deployed in orbit, a total of eight axial and wire booms are deployed, increasing vehicle size to .\n\nThe MMS spacecraft are spin stabilized, turning at a rate of three revolutions per minute to maintain orientation. Each spacecraft contains 12 thrusters connected to four hydrazine fuel tanks. Position data is provided by highly sensitive GPS equipment, while attitude is maintained by four star trackers, two accelerometers, and two sun sensors.\n\nThe mission is broken into three phases. The commissioning phase will last approximately five and a half months after launch, while the science phases will last two years. The first science phase will focus on the magnetic boundary between the Earth and Sun (day side operations) for one and a half years, with the spacecraft formation orbiting the Earth at . The second science phase will study reconnection in Earth's magnetic tail (night side operations) for half a year, increasing the orbit to .\n\nEach spacecraft carries several experiments, divided into three suites: the Hot Plasma Suite, the Energetic Particles Detector Suite, and the Fields Suite.\n\nThe Hot Plasma Suite measures plasma particle counts, directions, and energies during reconnection. It consists of two instruments:\n\nThe Energetic Particles Detector Suite detects particles at energies far exceeding those detected by the Hot Plasma Suite. It consists of two instruments:\n\nThe Fields Suite measures magnetic and electric field characteristics. It consists of six instruments:\n\nThe principal investigator is James L. Burch of Southwest Research Institute, assisted by an international team of investigators, both instrument leads and theory and modeling experts. The Project Scientist is Thomas E. Moore of Goddard Space Flight Center. Education and public outreach is a key aspect of the mission, with student activities, data sonification, and planetarium shows being developed.\n\nThe mission was selected for support by NASA in 2005. System engineering, spacecraft bus design, integration and testing has been performed by Goddard Space Flight Center in Maryland. Instrumentation is being improved, with extensive experience brought in from other projects, such as the IMAGE, Cluster and Cassini missions. In June 2009, MMS was allowed to proceed to Phase C, having passed a Preliminary Design Review. The mission passed its Critical Design Review in September 2010. The spacecraft launched on an Atlas V 421 rocket, in March 2015.\n\nIn order to collect the desired science data, the four satellite MMS constellation must maintain a tetrahedral formation through a defined region of interest in a highly elliptical orbit. The formation will be maintained through the use of a high altitude rated GPS receiver, Navigator, to provide orbit knowledge, and regular formation maintenance maneuvers.\n\nIn 2016 the MMS mission was the first to directly detect magnetic reconnection, the phenomenon which drives space weather in the Earth's magnetosphere.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "287938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=287938", "title": "Marjory Stoneman Douglas", "text": "Marjory Stoneman Douglas\n\nMarjory Stoneman Douglas (April 7, 1890 – May 14, 1998) was an American journalist, author, women's suffrage advocate, and conservationist known for her staunch defense of the Everglades against efforts to drain it and reclaim land for development. Moving to Miami as a young woman to work for \"The Miami Herald\", she became a freelance writer, producing over a hundred short stories that were published in popular magazines. Her most influential work was the book \"\" (1947), which redefined the popular conception of the Everglades as a treasured river instead of a worthless swamp. Its impact has been compared to that of Rachel Carson's influential book \"Silent Spring\" (1962). Her books, stories, and journalism career brought her influence in Miami, enabling her to advance her causes.\n\nAs a young woman, Douglas was outspoken and politically conscious of the women's suffrage and civil rights movements. She was called upon to take a central role in the protection of the Everglades when she was 79 years old. For the remaining 29 years of her life she was \"a relentless reporter and fearless crusader\" for the natural preservation and restoration of South Florida. Her tireless efforts earned her several variations of the nickname \"Grande Dame of the Everglades\" as well as the hostility of agricultural and business interests looking to benefit from land development in Florida. She received numerous awards, including the Presidential Medal of Freedom, and was inducted into several halls of fame.\n\nDouglas lived to 108, working until nearly the end of her life for Everglades restoration. Upon her death, an obituary in \"The Independent\" in London stated, \"In the history of the American environmental movement, there have been few more remarkable figures than Marjory Stoneman Douglas.\"\n\nMarjory Stoneman was born on April 7, 1890, in Minneapolis, Minnesota, the only child of Frank Bryant Stoneman (1857–1941) and Florence Lillian Trefethen (1859–1912), a concert violinist. One of her earliest memories was her father reading to her \"The Song of Hiawatha\", at which she burst into sobs upon hearing that the tree had to give its life in order to provide Hiawatha the wood for a canoe. She was an early and voracious reader. Her first book was \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\", which she kept well into adulthood until \"some fiend in human form must have borrowed it and not brought it back\". She visited Florida when she was four, and her most vivid memory of the trip was picking an orange from a tree at the Tampa Bay Hotel. From there she and her parents embarked on a cruise from Tampa to Havana.\n\nWhen she was six, Marjory's parents separated. Her father endured a series of failed entrepreneurial ventures and the instability caused her mother to move them abruptly to the Trefethen family house in Taunton, Massachusetts. She lived there with her mother, aunt, and grandparents, who did not get along well and consistently spoke ill of her father, to her dismay. Her mother, whom Marjory characterized as \"high-strung\", was committed to a mental sanitarium in Providence several times. Her parents' separation and the contentiousness of her mother's family caused her to suffer from night terrors. She credited her tenuous upbringing with making her \"a skeptic and a dissenter\" for the rest of her life.\n\nAs a youth, Marjory found solace in reading, and eventually she began to write. At sixteen she contributed to the most popular children's publication of the day, \"St. Nicholas Magazine\"—also the first publisher of 20th-century writers F. Scott Fitzgerald, Rachel Carson, and William Faulkner—with a puzzle titled \"Double Beheadings and Double Curtailings\". In 1907, she was awarded a prize by the \"Boston Herald\" for \"An Early Morning Paddle\", a story about a boy who watches a sunrise from a canoe. As her mother's mental health deteriorated, Marjory took on more responsibilities, eventually managing some of the family finances and gaining a maturity imposed upon her by circumstance.\n\nMarjory left for college in 1908, despite grave misgivings about her mother's mental state. Her aunt and grandmother shared her concerns, but recognized that she needed to leave in order to begin her own life. She was a straight-A student at Wellesley College, graduating with a BA in English in 1912. She found particular success in a class on elocution, and joined the first suffrage club with six of her classmates. She was elected Class Orator, but was unable to fulfill the office since she was already involved in other activities. During her senior year while visiting home, her mother showed her a lump on her breast. Marjory arranged the surgery to have it removed. After the graduation ceremony, her aunt informed her it had metastasized, and within months her mother was dead. The family left the funeral arrangements up to Marjory.\n\nAfter drifting with college friends through a few jobs to which she did not feel well-suited, Marjory Stoneman met Kenneth Douglas in 1914. She was so impressed with his manners and surprised at the attention he showed her that she married him within three months. He portrayed himself as a newspaper editor, and was 30 years her senior, but the marriage quickly failed when it became apparent he was a con artist. The true extent of his duplicity Marjory did not entirely reveal, despite her honesty in all other matters. Douglas was married to Marjory while already married to another woman. While he spent six months in jail for passing a bad check, she remained faithful to him. His scheme to scam her absent father out of money worked in Marjory's favor when it attracted Frank Stoneman's attention. Marjory's uncle persuaded her to move to Miami and end the marriage. In the fall of 1915, Marjory Stoneman Douglas left New England to be reunited with her father, whom she had not seen since her parents' separation. Shortly before that, her father had married Lillius (\"Lilla\") Eleanor Shine, a great-great-granddaughter of Thomas Jefferson (her grandfather was Francis W. Eppes). Marjory later wrote that Shine \"remained my first and best friend all my life in Florida.\"\n\nDouglas arrived in South Florida when fewer than 5,000 people lived in Miami and it was \"no more than a glorified railroad terminal\". Her father, Frank Stoneman, was the first publisher of the paper that later became \"The Miami Herald\". Stoneman passionately opposed the governor of Florida, Napoleon Bonaparte Broward, and his attempts to drain the Everglades. He infuriated Broward so much that when Stoneman won an election for circuit judge, Broward refused to validate the election, so Stoneman was referred to as \"Judge\" for the rest of his life without performing the duties of one.\n\nDouglas joined the newspaper's staff in 1915. She began as a society columnist writing about tea parties and society events, but news was so slow she later admitted to making up some of her stories: \"Somebody would say, 'Who's that Mrs. T.Y. Washrag you've got in your column?' And I would say, 'Oh, you know, I don't think she's been here very long'\". When her father went on vacation less than a year after her arrival in Miami, he left her the responsibility of the editorial page. She developed a rivalry with an editor at \"The Miami Metropolis\" whose greater familiarity with Miami history gave her cause to make fun of Douglas in writing. Her father scolded her to check her facts better.\n\nDouglas was given an assignment in 1916 to write a story on the first woman from Miami to join the US Naval Reserve. When the woman did not show up for the interview, Douglas herself joined the Navy as a Yeoman (F) first class. It did not suit her; she disliked rising early and her superiors did not appreciate her correcting their grammar, so she requested a discharge and joined the American Red Cross, which stationed her in Paris. She witnessed the tumultuous celebrations on the Rue de Rivoli when the Armistice was signed and cared for war refugees; seeing them displaced and in a state of shock, she wrote, \"helped me understand the plight of refugees in Miami sixty years later\".\n\nAfter the war, Douglas served as assistant editor at \"The Miami Herald\". She gained some renown for her daily column, \"The Galley\", becoming something of a local celebrity. She amassed a devoted readership and attempted to begin each column with a poem. \"The Galley\" was topical and went in any direction Douglas chose. She promoted responsible urban planning when Miami saw a population boom of 100,000 people in a decade. She wrote supporting women's suffrage, civil rights, and better sanitation while opposing Prohibition and foreign trade tariffs.\n\nSome of the stories she wrote spoke of the region's wealth as being in its \"inevitable development\", and she supplemented her income with $100 a week from writing copy advertisements that praised the development of South Florida, something she would reconsider later in her life. In the early 1920s she wrote \"Martin Tabert of North Dakota is Walking Florida Now\", a ballad lamenting the death of a 22-year-old vagrant who was beaten to death in a labor camp. It was printed in \"The Miami Herald\", and read aloud during a session of the Florida Legislature, which passed a law banning convict leasing in large part due to her writing. \"I think that's the single most important thing I was ever able to accomplish as a result of something I've written\", she wrote in her autobiography.\n\nAfter quitting the newspaper in 1923, Douglas worked as a freelance writer. From 1920 to 1990, Douglas published 109 fiction articles and stories. One of her first stories was sold to the pulp fiction magazine \"Black Mask\" for $600 (equivalent to $ in 2017). Forty of her stories were published in \"The Saturday Evening Post\"; one, \"Story of a Homely Woman\", was reprinted in 1937 in the \"Post's\" best short stories compilation. Recurring settings in her fiction were South Florida, the Caribbean, and Europe during World War I. Her protagonists were often independent, quirky women or youthful underdogs who encountered social or natural injustices. The people and animals of the Everglades served as subjects for some of her earliest writings. \"Plumes\", originally published in the \"Saturday Evening Post\" in 1930, was based on the murder of Guy Bradley, an Audubon Society game warden, by poachers. \"Wings\" was a nonfiction story, also first appearing in the \"Post\" in 1931, that addressed the slaughter of Everglades wading birds for their feathers. Her story \"Peculiar Treasure of a King\" was a second-place finalist in the O. Henry Award competition in 1928.\n\nDuring the 1930s, she was commissioned to write a pamphlet supporting a botanical garden called \"An argument for the establishment of a tropical botanical garden in South Florida.\" Its success caused her to be in demand at garden clubs where she delivered speeches throughout the area, then to serve on the board to support the Fairchild Garden. She called the garden \"one of the greatest achievements for the entire area\".\n\nDouglas became involved with the Miami Theater, and wrote some one-act plays that were fashionable in the 1930s. One, \"The Gallows Gate\", was about an argument between a mother and father regarding the character of their son who is sentenced to hang. She got the idea from her father, who had witnessed hangings when he lived in the West and was unnerved by the creaking sound of the rope bearing the weight of the hanging body. The play won a state competition, and eventually $500 in a national competition after it was written into three acts. With William W. Muir, husband of reporter Helen Muir, she authored \"Storm Warnings\", a play loosely based on the life of mobster Al Capone. Some of Capone's henchmen showed up at the theater, \"add[ing] an extra tingle for the audience that night\", though no actual problems arose. Douglas wrote the foreword to the Work Projects Administration's guide to Miami and environs, published in 1941 as part of the Federal Writers' Project's American Guide Series.\n\nDouglas served as the book review editor of \"The Miami Herald\" from 1942 to 1949, and as editor for the University of Miami Press from 1960 to 1963. She released her first novel, \"Road to the Sun\", in 1952. She wrote four novels, and several nonfiction books on regional topics including Florida birdwatching and David Fairchild, a biologist who imagined a botanical park in Miami. Her autobiography, \"Marjory Stoneman Douglas: Voice of the River\", was written with John Rothchild in 1987. She had been working on a book about W. H. Hudson for years, traveling to Argentina and England several times. It was incomplete when she died in 1998.\n\nEarly in the 1940s Douglas was approached by a publisher to contribute to the Rivers of America Series by writing about the Miami River. Unimpressed with it, she called the Miami River about \"an inch long\", but in researching it became more interested in the Everglades and persuaded the publisher to allow her to write about them instead. She spent five years researching what little was known about the ecology and history of the Everglades and South Florida. Douglas spent time with geologist Garald Parker, who discovered that South Florida's sole freshwater source was the Biscayne Aquifer, and it was filled by the Everglades. Parker confirmed the name of the book that has since become the nickname for the Everglades when Douglas, trying to capture the Everglades' essence, asked if she could safely call the fresh water flowing from Lake Okeechobee a river of grass.\n\n\"\" was published in 1947 and sold out of its first printing in a month. The book's first line, \"There are no other Everglades in the world\", has been called the \"most famous passage ever written about the Everglades\", and the line welcomes visitors to the Everglades National Park website. Douglas characterized the Everglades as an ecosystem surrounding a river worthy of protection, inescapably connected to South Florida's people and cultures. She outlined its imminent disappearance in the last chapter, \"The Eleventh Hour\":\n\nCattlemen's grass fires roared uncontrolled. Cane-field fires spread crackling and hissing in the saw grass in vast waves and pillars and billowing mountains of heavy, cream-colored, purple-shadowed smoke. Training planes flying over the Glades dropped bombs or cigarette butts, and the fires exploded in the hearts of the drying hammocks and raced on before every wind leaving only blackness ... There was no water in the canals with which to fight [the fires] ... The sweet water the rock had held was gone or had shrunk far down into its strange holes and cleavages.\n\n\"The Everglades: River of Grass\" galvanized people to protect the Everglades and has been compared to Rachel Carson's 1962 exposé of the harmful effects of DDT, \"Silent Spring\"; both books are \"groundbreaking calls to action that made citizens and politicians take notice\". Its impact is still felt as it is claimed to be a major reason Florida receives so many tourists, and \"remains the definitive reference on the plight of the Florida Everglades\". It has gone through numerous editions, selling 500,000 copies since its original publication. The \"Christian Science Monitor\" wrote of it in 1997, \"Today her book is not only a classic of environmental literature, it also reads like a blueprint for what conservationists are hailing as the most extensive environmental restoration project ever undertaken anywhere in the world\". The downside of the book's impact, according to one writer addressing restoration of the Everglades, is that her metaphor of a River of Grass is so predominant that the complex web of ecosystems within the Everglades is oversimplified. David McCally wrote that despite Douglas's \"appreciation of the complexity of the environmental system\" she described, popular conception of the Everglades shared by people who have not read the book overshadows her detailed explanations.\n\nWomen's suffrage was an early interest of Douglas, and although she tended to shy away from polemics in her early work at \"The Miami Herald\", on her third day as a society columnist, she chose suffrage and began to focus on writing about women in leadership positions. In 1917, she traveled with Mary Baird Bryan, William Jennings Bryan's wife, and two other women to Tallahassee to speak in support of women's right to vote. Douglas was not impressed with the reception the group got from the Florida Legislature. She wrote about her experience later: \"All four of us spoke to a joint committee wearing our best hats. Talking to them was like talking to graven images. They never paid attention to us at all.\" Douglas was able to vote for the first time after she returned from Europe in 1920.\n\nUsing her influence at \"The Miami Herald\", Douglas wrote columns about poverty:\n\nYou can have the most beautiful city in the world as appearance goes, the streets may be clean and shining, the avenues broad and tree lined, the public buildings dignified, adequate and well kept ... but if you have a weak or inadequate health department, or a public opinion lax on the subject, all the splendors of your city will have not value.\n\nIn 1948 Douglas served on the Coconut Grove Slum Clearance Committee, with a friend of hers named Elizabeth Virrick, who was horrified to learn that no running water or sewers were connected to the racially segregated part of Coconut Grove. They helped pass a law requiring all homes in Miami to have toilets and bathtubs. In the two years it took them to get the referendum passed, they worked to set up a loan operation for the black residents of Coconut Grove, who borrowed the money interest-free to pay for the plumbing work. Douglas noted that all of the money loaned was repaid.\n\nStoneman Douglas became involved in the Everglades in the 1920s, when she joined the board of the Everglades Tropical National Park Committee, a group led by Ernest F. Coe and dedicated to the idea of making a national park in the Everglades. By the 1960s, the Everglades were in imminent danger of disappearing forever because of gross mismanagement in the name of progress and real estate and agricultural development. Encouraged to get involved by the leaders of environmental groups, in 1969—at the age of 79—Douglas founded Friends of the Everglades to protest the construction of a jetport in the Big Cypress portion of the Everglades. She justified her involvement saying, \"It is a woman's business to be interested in the environment. It's an extended form of housekeeping.\"\n\nShe toured the state giving \"hundreds of ringing denunciations\" of the airport project, and increased membership of Friends of the Everglades to 3,000 within three years. She ran the public information operation full-time from her home and encountered hostility from the jetport's developers and backers, who called her a \"damn butterfly chaser\". President Richard Nixon, however, scrapped funding for the project due to the efforts of many Everglades watchdog groups.\n\nDouglas continued her activism and focused her efforts on restoring the Everglades after declaring that \"Conservation is now a dead word... You can't conserve what you haven't got.\" Her criticism was directed at two entities she considered were doing the most damage to the Everglades. A coalition of sugarcane growers, named Big Sugar, she accused of polluting Lake Okeechobee by pumping water tainted with chemicals, human waste, and garbage back into the lake, which served as the fresh water source for the Miami metropolitan area. She compared Florida sugarcane agriculture to sugarcane grown in the West Indies, which, she claimed, was more environmentally sound, had a longer harvest cycle less harmful to soil nutrients, and was less expensive for consumers due to the higher sugar content.\n\nBesides Big Sugar, Douglas spoke about the damage the Army Corps of Engineers was doing to the Everglades by diverting the natural flow of water. The Corps was responsible for constructing more than of canals to divert water away from the Everglades after 1947. When the Central & South Florida Project (C&SF), run by former members of the Corps of Engineers, was proposed to assist the Everglades, Douglas initially gave it her approval, as it promised to deliver much-needed water to the shrinking Everglades. However, in application, the project instead diverted more water away from the Everglades, changed water schedules to meet sugarcane farmers' irrigation needs, and flat-out refused to release water to Everglades National Park, until much of the land was unrecognizable. \"What a liar I turned out to be!\" remarked Douglas, then suggested the motivation behind all the digging and diversion in saying, \"Their mommies obviously never let them play with mud pies, so now they take it out on us by playing with cement\".\n\nDouglas was giving a speech addressing the harmful practices of the Army Corps of Engineers when the colonel in attendance dropped his pen on the floor. As he was stooping to pick it up, Douglas stopped her speech and said to him, \"Colonel! You can crawl under that table and hide, but you can't get away from me!\"\n\nIn 1973, Douglas attended a meeting addressing conservation of the Everglades in Everglades City, and was observed by John Rothchild:\n\nMrs. Douglas was half the size of her fellow speakers and she wore huge dark glasses, which along with the huge floppy hat made her look like Scarlett O'Hara as played by Igor Stravinsky. When she spoke, everybody stopped slapping mosquitoes and more or less came to order. She reminded us all of our responsibility to nature and I don't remember what else. Her voice had the sobering effect of a one-room schoolmarm's. The tone itself seemed to tame the rowdiest of the local stone crabbers, plus the developers, and the lawyers on both sides. I wonder if it didn't also intimidate the mosquitoes ... The request for a Corps of Engineers permit was eventually turned down. This was no surprise to those of us who'd heard her speak.\n\nDouglas was not well received by some audiences. She opposed the drainage of a suburb in Dade County named East Everglades. After the county approved building permits in the Everglades, the land flooded as it had for centuries. When homeowners demanded the Army Corps of Engineers drain their neighborhoods, she was the only opposing voice. At the hearing in 1983, she was booed, jeered, and shouted at by the audience of residents. \"Can't you boo any louder than that?\" she chided, eventually making them laugh. \"Look. I'm an old lady. I've been here since eight o'clock. It's now eleven. I've got all night, and I'm used to the heat,\" she told them. Later, she wrote, \"They're all good souls—they just shouldn't be out there.\" Dade County commissioners eventually decided not to drain.\n\nFlorida Governor Lawton Chiles explained her impact, saying, \"Marjory was the first voice to really wake a lot of us up to what we were doing to our quality of life. She was not just a pioneer of the environmental movement, she was a prophet, calling out to us to save the environment for our children and our grandchildren.\"\n\nDouglas also served as a charter member of the first American Civil Liberties Union chapter organized in the South in the 1950s. She lent her support to the Equal Rights Amendment, speaking to the legislature in Tallahassee urging them to ratify it. In the 1980s Douglas lent her support to the Florida Rural Legal Services, a group that worked to protect migrant farm workers who were centered on Belle Glade, and who were primarily employed by the sugarcane industry. She wrote to Governor Bob Graham in 1985 to encourage him to assess the conditions the migrant workers endured. The same year, Douglas approached the Dade County School Board and insisted that the Biscayne Nature Center, which had been housed in hot dog stands, needed a building of its own. The center received a portable building until 1991 when the Florida Department of Education endowed $1.8 million for the Marjory Stoneman Douglas Biscayne Nature Center in Crandon Park. Douglas co-founded the Friends of the Miami-Dade Public Libraries with her longtime friend Helen Muir, and served as its first president.\n\nAlthough Douglas grew up in an Episcopal household, she described herself as agnostic throughout her life, and forbade any religious ceremony at her memorial. Douglas tied her agnosticism to her unanswered prayers when her mother was dying. However, she credited the motivation for her support of women's suffrage to her Quaker paternal grandparents whose dedication to the abolition of slavery she admired, and proudly claimed Levi Coffin, an organizer of the Underground Railroad, was her great-great-uncle. She wrote that his wife was a friend of Harriet Beecher Stowe, and had provided Stowe with the story of Eliza in \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\" fleeing slavery because Douglas' great-great-aunt took care of Eliza and her infant after their escape. Frank Stoneman grew up in a Quaker colony, and Douglas maintained he kept touches of his upbringing throughout his life, even after converting to Episcopalianism. Writer Jack Davis and neighbor Helen Muir suggest this Quaker influence was behind Douglas' use of \"Friends\" in naming the organizations Friends of the Everglades and Friends of the Miami-Dade Public Libraries.\n\nAs a child, Douglas was very close with her mother after her parents' separation. She witnessed her mother's emotional unraveling that caused her to be institutionalized, and even long after her mother returned to live with her, she exhibited bizarre, childlike behaviors. Following her mother's death, her relocation to Miami, and her displeasure in working as the assistant editor at \"The Miami Herald\", in the 1920s, she suffered the first of three nervous breakdowns.\n\nDouglas suggested she had what she referred to as \"blank periods\" before and during her marriage, but they were brief. She connected these lapses to her mother's insanity. She eventually quit the newspaper, but after her father's death in 1941 she suffered a third and final breakdown, when her neighbors found her roaming the neighborhood one night screaming. She realized she had a \"father complex\", explaining it by saying, \"Having been brought up without him all those years, and then coming back and finding him so sympathetic had a powerful effect\".\n\nRegardless of her dedication to the preservation of the Everglades, Douglas admitted the time she spent actually there was sporadic, driving there for occasional picnics. \"To be a friend of the Everglades is not necessarily to spend time wandering around out there ... It's too buggy, too wet, too generally inhospitable\", she wrote. Instead, she understood that the health of the environment indicated the general well-being of humanity.\n\nDespite Douglas' demure appearance—she stood at and weighed , and was always immaculately dressed in pearls, a floppy straw hat and gloves—she had an uncanny ability to get her point across. She was known for speaking in perfect, precise paragraphs, and was respected for her dedication and knowledge of her subjects; even her critics admitted her authority on the Everglades. Jeff Klinkenberg, a reporter for the \"St. Petersburg Times\" who interviewed and wrote several stories about Stoneman Douglas, wrote of her, \"She had a tongue like a switchblade and the moral authority to embarrass bureaucrats and politicians and make things happen.\" Douglas was known for haughtily dismissing reporters who had not read her books and asked uninformed questions.\n\nShe enjoyed drinking Scotch and sherry; as friend and neighbor Helen Muir remembered her, \"She would come up and have a sherry, and then I would walk her home, and then she'd walk me back, and we would have another sherry. What fun she was.\" Novelist Hervey Allen called Marjory Stoneman Douglas and Muir \"the Stewart Avenue Gang\". The two were fond of having sherry together and gossiping, but those moments were followed by serious talk of the future of libraries, and the role of women in South Florida. They were confidants, and often shared their work with one another. Douglas never learned to drive and never owned a car. Her house also had no air conditioning, electric stove, or dishwasher.\n\nShe was attached to several men after her divorce, counting one of them as the reason she enlisted in the Red Cross, as he had already gone to France as a soldier. However, she said she did not believe in extramarital sex and would not have dishonored her father by being promiscuous. She told Klinkenberg in 1992, frankly, that she had not had sex since her divorce, saying \"I wasn't a wild woman\". However, she was fond of saying she used the emotion and energy instead on her work. \"People don't seem to realize that the energy that goes into sex, all the emotion that surrounds it, can be well employed in other ways\", she wrote in her autobiography.\n\nDouglas began accruing honors in her early days writing for \"The Miami Herald\". In the 1980s, the awards became more prestigious, and her reactions to them mixed. The Florida Department of Natural Resources (now the Florida Department of Environmental Protection) named its headquarters in Tallahassee after her in 1980, which she considered a dubious honor. She told a friend she would have rather seen the Everglades restored than her name on a building. During her polite acceptance speech, she railed against Ronald Reagan and the then-Secretary of the Interior James Watt for their lackluster approach to environmental conservation. In 1986 the National Parks Conservation Association established the Marjory Stoneman Douglas Award, which \"honor(s) individuals who often must go to great lengths to advocate and fight for the protection of the National Park System\". Despite blindness and diminished hearing, Douglas continued to be active into her second century, and was honored with a visit from Queen Elizabeth II, to whom Douglas gave a signed copy of \"The Everglades: River of Grass\" in 1991. Instead of gifts and celebrations, Douglas asked that trees be planted on her birthday, resulting in over 100,000 planted trees across the state and a bald cypress on the lawn of the governor's mansion. The South Florida Water Management District began removing exotic plants that had taken hold in the Everglades when Douglas turned 102.\n\nIn 1993, when she was 103, President Bill Clinton awarded Douglas the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian honor granted by the United States of America. The citation for the medal read, \"Marjory Stoneman Douglas personifies passionate commitment. Her crusade to preserve and restore the Everglades has enhanced our Nation's respect for our precious environment, reminding all of us of nature's delicate balance. Grateful Americans honor the 'Grandmother of the Glades' by following her splendid example in safeguarding America's beauty and splendor for generations to come.\" Douglas donated her medal to Wellesley College. Most of the others she received she stored at her home.\n\nDouglas was posthumously inducted into the National Wildlife Federation Hall of Fame in 1999, and the National Women's Hall of Fame in 2000. John Rothchild declared her a feminist before the word existed. Upon hearing that she was to be inducted, she questioned, \"Why should they have a Women's Hall of Fame, as I heard they wanted to put me in the other day? Why not a Citizen's Hall of Fame?\" Douglas was included in a tribute to pioneering women when television character Lisa Simpson made a papier-mâché bust of her with Georgia O'Keeffe and Susan B. Anthony in an early episode of \"The Simpsons\".\n\nSome of Douglas's stories were collected by University of Florida professor Kevin McCarthy in two edited collections: \"Nine Florida Stories\" in 1990 and \"A River In Flood\" in 1998. McCarthy wrote that he collected Douglas's short stories because most people in the 1990s were well aware of her as an environmentalist but did not know about her career as a freelance writer. \"Probably no other person has been as important to the environmental well-being of Florida than this little lady from Coconut Grove\", McCarthy wrote in the introduction to \"A River in Flood\".\n\nA high school in Parkland, Florida, was named after Marjory Stoneman Douglas when it opened in 1990, the year of her 100th birthday.\n\nMarjory Stoneman Douglas died at the age of 108 on May 14, 1998. John Rothchild, who helped write her autobiography, said that her death was the only thing that could \"shut her up\" and added, \"The silence is terrible.\" Carl Hiaasen eulogized her in \"The Miami Herald\", writing that \"The Everglades: River of Grass\" was \"monumental\", and praised her passion and her resolve; even when politicians finally found value in the Everglades and visited her for a photo opportunity, she still provoked them to do more and do it faster.\n\nThe National Wildlife Federation described her as \"a passionate, articulate, and tireless voice for the environment\". Chairman of the Florida Audubon Society Ed Davison remembered her, saying, \"She kept a clear vision of the way things ought to be, and she didn't give a lot of credibility to excuses about why they're not like that. She would give these wonderful, curmudgeonly speeches to which there was no response. You can't holler back to grandmotherly scolding. All you can do is shuffle your feet and say, 'Yes, Ma'am.'\" She was aware of it, once saying, \"People can't be rude to me, this poor little old woman. But I can be rude to them, poor darlings, and nobody can stop me.\" Her ashes were scattered over the of the Marjory Stoneman Douglas Wilderness Area in Everglades National Park.\n\nIn 2000, the Naples, Florida-based composer Steve Heitzeg wrote a 15-minute orchestra piece, \"Voice of the Everglades (Epitaph for Marjory Stoneman Douglas)\", for the Naples Philharmonic. Heitzeg said, \"She was outspoken, she was direct, she had the energy and belief to make the world a better place.\" Two South Florida public schools are named in her honor: Broward County Public Schools' Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School and Miami-Dade County Public Schools' Marjory Stoneman Douglas Elementary School.\n\nDouglas's cottage in Coconut Grove at 3744–3754 Stewart Avenue, was built in 1924. She wrote all of her major books and stories there, and the City of Miami designated it an historic site in 1995, not only for its famous owner but also for its unique Masonry Vernacular architecture. After Douglas's death, Friends of the Everglades proposed making the house part of an education center about Douglas and her life, but neighbors protested, citing issues with parking, traffic, and an influx of visitors to the quiet neighborhood. The house, which had an exterior floodwater line from the 1926 Miami Hurricane and some damage from an infestation of bees, had fallen further into disrepair. For a while, the idea of moving the house to Fairchild Tropical Botanic Garden in Coral Gables, which Douglas helped to develop and where there is a life-size bronze statue to commemorate her efforts, was considered. The State of Florida owns Douglas's house and in April 2007 placed it in the care of the Florida Park Service, a division of the Florida Department of Environmental Protection. Restoration of the floors and counters took place in the following months. Water service was reconnected to the house and the electrical system was updated for safety purposes. All work was approved by the Department of Historic Resources. A park ranger was placed as a resident in the Douglas house to help maintain the structure and property.\n\nOn April 22, 2015, while giving an Earth Day speech in the Everglades, President Barack Obama announced that Interior Secretary Sally Jewell had designated the house a National Historic Landmark.\n\n\n\nDouglas appears as a major supporting character in the 2014 point and click adventure \"A Golden Wake\".\n\nIn \"The Simpsons\" season 2 episode \"Bart vs. Thanksgiving\" Lisa makes a centerpiece for the table that features Douglas as an empowering woman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29884003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29884003", "title": "Misse", "text": "Misse\n\nMissen (singular: \"misse\") are small, shallow, forest bogs in pine (\"Pinus sylvestris\")-dominated woods that form on crests, saddles, hollows or plateaus in the hills or mountains. They only have a thin layer of peat of between 30 and 100 centimetres thick. The term \"misse\" is local to the Northern Black Forest and also surfaces as Miß, Müsse or Müß. These names probably derive from the German \"Moos\" (\"moss\") because peat mosses (\"Sphagnum\") play a key role in their development. Due to the poor tree growth associated with them, however, it could also stand for \"mies\" (\"bad\").\n\n\"Missen\" are most common on plateaus where the precipitation is heavy and the drainage is poor. But event silted-up tarns and shallow tarn soils may have \"missen\" on their hillsides (Hillside or swamp bogs). Floristically and depending on location, \"missen\" may transition into raised bogs, whereby ombrotrophes, i.e. areas exclusively fed by rainwater, (initially) are formed, albeit they only have a small surface area.\n\n\"Missen\" are formed on base-poor soils that have a tendency to become waterlogged. In addition, other climatic factors such as high levels of precipitation, a relatively short vegetation period and a cool, moist, montane climate are basic pre-requisites. Human exploitation may also favour the emergence of \"missen\". The introduction of stall feeding in the 19th century forced forest farmers to use the ground vegetation as bedding. On poor bunter sandstone soils raw humus is laid down as a result of the constant removal of nutrients. The blueberry (\"Vaccinium myrtillus\"), an indicator of acidicism, becomes the dominant type of dwarf shrub. Moor grass (\"Molinia caerulea\", \"M. arundinacea\") colonises the shore areas in dense tussocks.\n\n"}
{"id": "103123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103123", "title": "Modern flat Earth societies", "text": "Modern flat Earth societies\n\nModern flat Earth societies consist of individuals who promote the erroneous idea that the Earth is flat rather than a sphere. Such groups date from the middle of the 20th century; some adherents are serious and some are not. Those who are serious are often motivated by pseudoscience.\n\nThrough the use of social media, flat Earth theories have been increasingly espoused by individuals unaffiliated with larger groups, many of which have members from several countries.\n\nModern flat Earth hypotheses originated with the English writer Samuel Rowbotham (1816–1884). Based on conclusions derived from the Bedford Level experiment, Rowbotham published a pamphlet \"Zetetic Astronomy.\" He later expanded into a book \"Earth Not a Globe\", proposing the Earth is a flat disc centred at the North Pole and bounded along its southern edge by a wall of ice, Antarctica. Rowbotham further held that the Sun and Moon were 3,000 miles (4,800 km) above Earth and that the \"cosmos\" was 3,100 miles (5,000 km) above the Earth. He also published a leaflet titled \"The inconsistency of Modern Astronomy and its Opposition to the Scriptures\", which argued that the \"Bible, alongside our senses, supported the idea that the earth was flat and immovable and this essential truth should not be set aside for a system based solely on human conjecture\".\n\nRowbotham and followers like William Carpenter gained attention by successful use of pseudoscience in public debates with leading scientists such as Alfred Russel Wallace. Rowbotham created a Zetetic Society in England and New York, shipping over a thousand copies of \"Zetetic Astronomy\".\n\nAfter Rowbotham's death, Lady Elizabeth Blount established a Universal Zetetic Society, whose objective was \"the propagation of knowledge related to Natural Cosmogony in confirmation of the Holy Scriptures, based on practical scientific investigation\". The society published a magazine, \"The Earth Not a Globe Review\", and remained active well into the early 20th century. A flat Earth journal, \"Earth: a Monthly Magazine of Sense and Science\", was published between 1901–1904, edited by Lady Blount.\n\nIn 1956, Samuel Shenton created the International Flat Earth Research Society as a successor to the Universal Zetetic Society, running it as \"organising secretary\" from his home in Dover, England. Given Shenton's interest in alternative science and technology, the emphasis on religious arguments was less than in the predecessor society. When satellite images showed Earth as a sphere, Shenton remarked: \"It's easy to see how a photograph like that could fool the untrained eye\". Later asked about similar photographs taken by astronauts, he attributed curvature to the use of wide-angle lens, adding, \"It's a deception of the public and it isn't right\".\n\nIn 1969, Shenton persuaded Ellis Hillman, a Polytechnic of East London lecturer, to become president of the Flat Earth Society; but there is little evidence of any activity on his part until after Shenton's death, when he added most of Shenton's library to the archives of the Science Fiction Foundation he helped to establish.\n\nShenton died in 1971. Charles K. Johnson inherited part of Shenton's library from Shenton's wife, and established and became president of the International Flat Earth Research Society of America and Covenant People's Church in California. Over the next three decades, under his leadership, the Flat Earth Society grew to a reported 3,500 members.\n\nJohnson issued many publications and handled all membership applications. The most famous publication was \"Flat Earth News,\" a quarterly, four-page tabloid. Johnson paid for these publications through annual member dues costing US$6 to US$10 over the course of his leadership. Johnson cited the Bible for his beliefs, and he saw scientists as pulling a hoax which would replace religion with science.\n\nThe Flat Earth Society's most recent planet model is that humanity lives on a disc, with the North Pole at its centre and a 150-foot (45 m) high wall of ice, Antarctica, at the outer edge. The resulting map resembles the symbol of the United Nations, which Johnson used as evidence for his position. In this model, the Sun and Moon are each 32 miles (52 km) in diameter.\n\nFlat Earth Society recruited members by speaking against the US government and all its agencies, particularly NASA. Much of the society's literature in its early days focused on interpreting the Bible to mean that the Earth is flat, although they did try to offer scientific explanations and evidence.\n\nEugenie Scott called the group an example of \"extreme Biblical-literalist theology: The earth is flat because the Bible says it is flat, regardless of what science tells us\".\n\nAccording to Charles K. Johnson the membership of the group rose to 3,500 under his leadership, but began to decline after a fire at his house in 1997 which destroyed all of the records and contacts of the society's members. Johnson's wife, who helped manage the membership database, died shortly thereafter. Johnson himself died on 19 March 2001.\n\nIn 2004, Daniel Shenton (not related to Samuel) resurrected the Flat Earth Society, basing it around a web-based discussion forum. This eventually led to the official relaunch of the society in October 2009, and the creation of a new website, featuring a public collection of flat Earth literature and a wiki. Moreover, the society began accepting new members for the first time since 2001, with musician Thomas Dolby becoming the first to join the newly reconvened society. As of July 2017, over 500 people have become members.\nIn 2013, part of this society broke away to form a new web-based group also featuring a forum and wiki.\n\nFlat Earth Society of Canada was established on 8 November 1970 by philosopher Leo Ferrari, writer Raymond Fraser and poet Alden Nowlan; and was active until 1984. Its archives are held at the University of New Brunswick.\n\nCalling themselves \"planoterrestrialists\", their aims were quite different from other flat earth societies. They claimed a prevailing problem of the new technological age was the willingness of people to accept theories \"on blind faith and to reject the evidence of their own senses.\" The parodic intention of the Society appeared in the writings of Ferrari, as he attributed everything from gender to racial inequality on the globularist and the spherical Earth model. Ferrari even claimed to have nearly fallen off \"the Edge\" of the Earth at Brimstone Head on Fogo Island.\n\nFerrari was interviewed as an \"expert\" in the 1990 flat earth mockumentary \"In Search of the Edge\" by Pancake Productions (a reference to the expression \"as flat as a pancake\"). In the accompanying study guide, Ferrari is outed as a \"globularist,\" a nonce word for someone who believes the earth is spherical. The real intent of the film, which was part-funded by the Ontario Arts Council and National Film Board of Canada, was to promote schoolchildren's critical thinking and media literacy by \"[attempting] to prove in convincing fashion, something everyone knew to be false.\"\n\nMulti-media artist Kay Burns re-created the Flat Earth Society of Canada as an art project with her alter ego Iris Taylor as its president. Burns created an installation entitled the Museum of the Flat Earth, which included some artefacts from the 1970 group. It was exhibited in 2016 at the Flat Earth Outpost Café in Shoal Bay, Newfoundland.\n\n\nIn the modern era, the availability of communications technology and social media like YouTube, Facebook and Twitter have made it easy for individuals, famous and not, to spread disinformation and attract others to their erroneous ideas. One of the topics that has flourished in this environment is that of the flat Earth.\n\nModern flat earthers generally embrace some form of conspiracy theory out of the necessity of explaining why major institutions such as governments, media outlets, schools, scientists, and airlines all assert that the world is round. They tend to not trust observations they have not made themselves, and often distrust or disagree with each other.\n\nBased on the speakers at the 2018 UK's Flat Earth UK Convention, believers in a flat Earth vary widely in their views. While most agree upon a disc-shaped Earth, some are convinced the Earth is diamond shaped. Furthermore, while most believers do not believe in outer space and none believe mankind has ever traveled there, they vary widely in their views of the universe.\n\nThe solar eclipse of 21 August 2017 gave rise to numerous YouTube videos purporting to show how the details of the eclipse prove the Earth is flat. Also in 2017, \"the Tunisian and Arab scientific and educational world\" had a scandal when a PhD student submitted a thesis \"declaring Earth to be flat, unmoving, young (only 13,500 years of age), and the centre of the universe\".\n\nOn May 3, 2018, Steven Novella analyzed the modern belief in a flat Earth, and concluded that, despite what most people think about the subject, the believers are being sincere in their belief that the Earth is flat, and are not \"just saying that to wind us up\". He stated that:\nThe British skeptical activist Michael Marshall attended the UK's annual Flat Earth UK Convention between 27-29, April 2018 and noted disagreement on several views of the believers' in a Flat Earth. To Marshall, one of the most telling moments at the convention was the \"Flat Earth Addiction\" test that was based on a checklist used to determine whether someone is in a cult, without the convention attendees realizing the possibility of themselves being in a cult.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2886641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2886641", "title": "Nepheloid layer", "text": "Nepheloid layer\n\nNepheloid layer or nepheloid zone is a layer of water in the deep ocean basin, above the ocean floor, that contains significant amounts of suspended sediment. It is from 200 to 1000 m thick. The name comes from Greek: \"nephos\", \"cloud\". The particles in the layer may come from the upper ocean layers and from stripping the sediments from the ocean floor by currents. Its thickness depends on bottom current velocity and is a result of balance between gravitational settling of particles and turbulence of the current.\n\nIn a similar way, a surface nepheloid layer (SNL) may be created, due to particle flotation, while intermediate nepheloid layers (INL) may be formed at the slopes of the ocean bed due to the dynamics of internal waves. These intermediate nepheloid layers are derived from bottom nehpeloid layers (BNL) after the layers become detached and spread along isopycnal surfaces.\n\nThe existence of the nepheloid layer complicates bathymetry: one has to take into account the reflections of lidar or ultrasonic pulses from the upper interface of this layer, as well as their absorption within the layer.\n\nA prominent nepheloid layer exists in the Gulf of Mexico extending from the delta of the Brazos River to South Padre Island. The layer of turbid water can begin as shallow as 20 meters and is caused mostly by clay run-off from multiple rivers. The silty bottom of the gulf also contributes to the high turbidity. Due to the blockage of light by this nepheloid layer, algae and coral are sparse, resulting in an animal-dominated community. This community is largely composed of infauna and consists of a detrital-based food chain. Many species of polychaete worms, amphipods, and brittle stars inhabit the benthic surface and can also be accompanied by some secondary consumers such as flounders, shrimp, crabs, and starfishes.\n\nA prominent nepheloid layer exists also in the Porcupine Bank\n"}
{"id": "2298065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2298065", "title": "Nnewi", "text": "Nnewi\n\nNnewi is the second largest city in Anambra State in southeastern Nigeria. Nnewi as a metropolitan city encompasses 2 local government areas, Nnewi North, Nnewi South; Nnewi North is commonly referred to as Nnewi central, and comprises four autonomous quarters: Otolo, Uruagu, Umudim, and Nnewichi. Nnewi North also includes Ichi, an autonomous neighbouring town. The first indigenous car manufacturing plant in Nigeria is located in the city while the first wholly made-in-Nigeria motorcycle, the 'NASENI M1' was manufactured in Nnewi.\n\n, Nnewi has an estimated population of 391,227 according to the Nigerian census. The city spans over in Anambra State. Nnewi Metropolitan Area and its satellite towns is home to nearly 2.5 million residents . Dimensionally, Nnewi has an edge over all other units, being recognized by the 1953 census figures as the largest inland town of all others in the Eastern states of Nigeria.\n\nIn Nnewi oral history and mythology, the 'ewi' () played a great role in saving the founders of Nnewi during wars. Throughout its history, Nnewi has used its military might to maintain its borders and because of this, the killing or eating of ewi in Nnewi is forbidden to the present day. Nnewi existed as an independent kingdom from the 15th century to 1904, when British colonial administration occupied the kingdom.\n\nNnewi kingdom was founded on four quarters (large villages), namely Otolo, Uruagu, Umudim, and Nnewichi. Each village was divided into family units called 'umunna'. Each umunna had a first family known as the 'obi'.\n\nThese four quarters were these original names of the Sons of Edo: Otolo being the eldest and Nnewichi being the youngest of the sons Obi of Nnewi\n\nOriginally when the Igbos or Ibos settled in the present day Eastern Nigeria, they arrived with three leaders, two were spiritual leaders and the youngest of the three a hereditary King known as Obi a King by birthright. The first was the Eze Nri of Awka a Priest King, the second the Eze Aro of Arochukwu a King and the third the Obi of Nnewi a political and war ruler. The Obi of Onitsha was well qualified to become an Obi being disputably the first among the two sons of the Oba of Benin. The Onitsha people are visitors and later settlers in Igbo land. The Aros know this history (Nnewi being a relation and a leader among the Igbos) and this is part of the reason why there are no Aro settlements in Nnewi. The Obi of Nnewi Obi Okoli in1780s lost his throne when inside palace politics that hinged on tradition edged him out. Traditional royal law had it that the Crown Prince must perform the funeral rights of the late Obi before he can be crowned, Obi Okoli was absent and arrived home only after the late Obi Okoli 1st was buried. His Uncle (The late Obi Okoli the 1st younger brother) performed the funeral rights in his stead and took over as Igwe Nnewi he could not be enthroned as an Obi (which means the first son). The Obi Okoli royal lineage was forced into exile, they got refuge at Umune-Alam in Umudim, Nnewi where they still are to this day. The Obi Okoli family still bears the Ofor Nnewi till this day.\n\nEdo is the supreme deity of all the Alusi (Igbo: \"deity\") in the Anaedo country. The central shrine of this unifying Alusi is at Nkwo Nnewi, the central Market. There are four other deities in Nnewi: Ana, Ezemewi, Eze and Ele. Christianity was introduced by the Europeans in 1885 and many Nnewi people now practice Christianity.\n\nNnewi, Ichi and Oraifite made up the Anaedo state. Anaedo communities have common ancestries, beliefs and traditional value systems. Nnewi is a major trading and manufacturing center in Nigeria. Due to its high commercial activities, the city has attracted millions of migrants from other states and countries.\n\nThe Ofala Nnewi is a cultural festival held every year to celebrate the coronation of the Igwe of Nnewi. Afiaolu (New yam festival) and Ikwuaru are also among traditional festivals held annually in Nnewi.\nNnewi Kingdom is also known as \"Anaedo\" meaning the Land of Gold (The supreme deity and goddess of Nnewi).\n\nGeographically, Nnewi falls within the tropical rain forest region of Nigeria. Though it suffers from soil leaching and erosion which has reduced the soil in some areas to a porous sandy terrain, it remains an area of rich agricultural produce and the epicenter of business trade. The city is located east of the Niger River, and about 22 kilometers south east of Onitsha in Anambra State, Nigeria.\n\nThe traditional monarch of Nnewi is called the Igwe. The Igweship in Nnewi kingdom predates the arrival of Europeans, making it a unique monarchy in Igbo land. The Igbos are known for not having kings, hence the popular Igbo saying \"Igbo é nwě Eze\", meaning 'the Igbos have no king'. In other Igbo clans, the British colonial administrators created warrant chiefs who then assumed the office and title of Igwe and are elected to this day.\nIn Nnewi, the Igwe is the isi obi (head of the Obis) and hence the Igwe, which literally translates as the heavenly one or highness as he is the holder of the Ofo, the religious and political symbol. He is born and not made or elected, and the institution of inheritance is the traditional right and privilege.\nThe position is neither transferable nor negotiable. He is also an Obi. Obi is the title held by ruling chiefs; it is the equivalent of a duke in the nobility.\n\nThe present reigning monarch is His Royal Highness Igwe Kenneth Onyeneke Orizu III; he is the longest serving monarch in Nigeria and he is currently the 20th monarch in the Nnofo Royal lineage. Igwe Kenneth Orizu III is the first class chief in Anambra state from Nnewi as well as the vice Chairman of the Anambra State House of Chiefs. \n\nThere are Obis in the four clans that make up Nnewi. The highest and the most senior obi is the Obi of Otolo, who is also the Igwe of Nnewi. Chief Nnamdi Obi, Obi Bennett Okafor and Obi George Onyekaba are the current obis of Uruagu, Umudim, and Nnewichi, respectively. These three obis with Igwe Orizu, III as chairman constitute the Igwe-in-Council and they deliberate on the spiritual, traditional, and communal matters, in Nnewi.\n\nThere is also an active town union called the Nzuko-Ora Nnewi. It is a forum through which adult Nnewi indigenes (18 years or older) can contribute to the development of Nnewi. This union was set up to encourage and promote the establishment of structures and facilities that will promote and improve the quality of life of the residents of Nnewi.\n\nThe ancient legal system of Nnewi was not based upon a written law. It was purely a natural law, involving custom, tradition, and civil and criminal cases. The legal process in Nnewi passed through the labyrinth of extended family system. A report against an offender or a criminal in the first instance, had to be made to the head of his family at his ancestral home known as obi. The head of the family would invite elders and minor obis from his extended family unit to sit in judgment, while the complainant would also invite the elders and minor obis from his extended family side, if both of them were not from the same family. This obi would serve as the court of the first instance, depending, of course, on the nature of the offense or crime allegedly committed. The trial might end here, if both the complainant and the accused were satisfied with the judgment given, or they might take the case to the next senior obi of the same extended' family, in ascending order, until, probably, the matter got to the highest obi in the lineage. If the complainant was not satisfied at this point, he would appeal to the obi of the quarter and the leaders of his family could be summoned to defend their judgment.\n\nThrough this legal procedure, guilt or innocence could easily be established, as the decision was based purely on natural justice. Punishments for offenses and criminal acts were given in relation to their gravity. A man who was found guilty of a serious crime might have no option than to be sold into slavery or expelled from the community for life. He would not be killed because the killing of human beings was against the injunction of Edo Goddess.\nThe judicial system in Nnewi seems to have recognized three classes of cases, the minor offenses, the true criminal case, and the civil suits of debt, bride price and land. The breaking of by-laws was really an offence against some particular juju and as such was to be expiated by a sacrifice. It was, for example, forbidden to kill an \"eke\" snake, a type of python, or to eat \"ewi,\" rodent of rabbit family. It is probable these laws were never broken willingly and if broken by accident, the offender would automatically perform a sacrifice without any form of judicial trial being held.\nThe criminal code, with regard to serious crimes, appears to have been more developed in Nnewi than elsewhere in Igboland. There were seven main classes of offences, which were known as \"ori-obi,\" offenses against the obi, as their investigation was always carried out in the obi of the quarter.\n\nNnewi has contributed its fair share of key players in Nigerian politics. A. A. Nwafor Orizu; president of the Nigerian Senate in the First Republic and later, the Acting President before the first coup d’etat of 1966, M.C.K. Ajuluchukwu; a nationalist, anti-colonialist and first republic law-maker, Chief Z.C. Obi (Onunekwuluigbo Igbo); First republic politician, Sir Louis Odumegwu Ojukwu, OBE, Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu (Ikemba Nnewi); former military Governor of defunct Eastern Nigeria and President of defunct Republic of Biafra, Comrade Dr. Edward Ikem Okeke; Deputy President of the PRP and Special Adviser to the President (Second Republic), Mr. F. C. Nwokedi; the first Nigerian Permanent Secretary, Dr. Dozie Ikedife (Ikenga Nnewi); former President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Professor A. B. C. Nwosu; Former Health Commissioner in East Central state and Anambra state, respectively, Dr. Chu Okongwu; Former Minister of Finance;Dr David Bennet Anagwu Ofomata;The first Indigenous Medical Director, Nigerian Railway Corporation, First CEO/Chairman Anambra Health Management Board & Chairman old Nnewi LGA;\n\nNnewi is also the ancestral home of prominent Nigerians including the esteemed individuals listed below. See (People).\n\nAgbo Edo, a forest land which belonged to Edo Nnewi deity, was cleared to make way for a new market called Nkwo Nnewi market. The development of this market propelled the fast development of the local economy.\n\nAs a fast developing city and a major industrial and commercial hub in Africa, Nnewi experiences voluminous financial activities, therefore hosts major banks, and other financial institutions. Industries are dotted around the city and adjoining towns. Palm oil, cosmetics, motor, and motorcycle spare parts, books, and stationery, textiles, electric cables, and so on are produced in commercial quantity in the area.\nIts main trading centers include Nkwo Nnewi market (the largest spare parts market in west Africa) and Nwafor market, Eke Amaobi market, Eke Ochie, Eke Ichi Market, Orie otube Market, etc.\n\nThe main occupation of Nnewi people is trading and farming, therefore they depend mainly on agriculture and commerce for their daily livelihood. Most Nnewian have mbubo (home gardens) and ubi (out-station gardens) where they usually cultivate their farm products. These crops when they are harvested are usually taken to the market for sale. Most of the prime cash crops include oil palm, raffia palm, groundnut, melon, cotton, cocoa, rubber, maize, et cetera. Food crops such as yam, cassava, cocoyam, breadfruit, and three-leaf yam are also produced in large quantities. The location of Nnewi within the tropical rainforest gives it the ecological basis for production of a wide range of tropical agriculture crops with widespread potential for industrial convention.\n\nNnewi is home to many major indigenous manufacturing industries including Ibeto Group of Companies, Cutix and ADswitch, Uru Industries Ltd, Omata Holdings Ltd, Cento Group of Companies, Coscharis of Companies Group, Innoson Group of Companies, Ebunso Nig. Ltd, John White Industries, Ejiamatu Group of Companies, Chicason Group, Louis Carter Group, etc.\nThe great majority of industrialists in the cluster of spare parts factories in Nnewi are also traders, and most of these traders are producing one or more of the products they specialize in marketing as traders (usually motor vehicle parts), and most began by distributing their products through their preexisting distribution networks. Nnewi is part of eastern Nigeria's industrial axis. The town has through culturally grounded institutions that act as sophisticated networks expanded to include an international dimension through trading relations with exporters from Asia. Over the last decade, the town of Nnewi has experienced relatively rapid industrialization. In excess of 20 medium-to-large-scale industries have been established across a variety of sectors. Since 1970, Nnewi residents have controlled approximately 80 to 90 percent of the motor-parts trade in Nigeria. Nkwo Nnewi Market is the major import and wholesale point for motor spare parts in Nigeria. The industrialists of Nnewi are adapting foreign technology to local needs, providing employment to thousands, and making available goods and services which are relevant actual needs of the Nigerian citizens. The first indigenous car manufacturing plant is located in the city, while the first wholly Made-in-Nigeria motorcycle was manufactured in Nnewi by the National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI).\n\nNnewi is known for the vibrant auto industry in the city, the first Igbo man to own and drive a car was SIR LOUIS OJUKWU, the father of Dim CHUKWUEMEKA ODUMEGWU OJUKWU in 1912.\nBy 1940, Nnewi residents were at the center of an international trading network that dominated the supply of motor spare parts in Nigeria. The town subsequently became a center for commerce and industry, and has one of the largest automotive parts markets in Africa. Nnewi Township is an authentic \"manufacturing miracle.\" Small and medium-sized industries have set up in the town and are producing not only for the Nigeria markets but – albeit still to a limited extent – for markets abroad.\n\nIndustrialization of the town began around 1970 when Nnewi motor parts traders began marketing their own brand name products instead of the reproductions of \"original\" parts. There are a several auto and motorcycle spare parts dealers in Nnewi; the Nnewi Motorcycle spare parts market is well known throughout West Africa. There is also new auto plant, the first of its kind in Nigeria, owned by an Nnewi businessman, Innocent Chukwuma, Ono and a Chinese auto Company.\n\nNnewi, as a historical city, has many cultural events and places adorned with festivities and cultural monuments, including Edo Na Ezemewi shrine, Udoogwugwu shrine (Ichi), Kamanu shrine (Ichi), and many other shrines dotted across all sections of Nnewi city. Nnewi hosts many festivals, notably amongst them is the New yam (Afiolu, also known as Ifejioku festival) which all parts of the city participates and masquerades from all federating towns participates in. The festival attracts all sorts of activities and celebrations which Nnewi residents hold in the highest esteem.\n\nIn the average home of any Nnewi citizen, they usually keep kola nuts, garden egg and peanut butter in their refrigerator in case any stranger or visitor should visit their home. Every visitation to their home begins with the offering of the kola nuts to the visitor. The kola nut is indicating that the visitor is very much welcomed. The ritual of the offering of kola nut is inspired with the giving in prayers and blessing or lobby to the supreme God and other deities, for the protection of the visitor and the host. It seems to be a custom to the people of Nnewi in any of their traditional ceremonies.\n\nLocal artists thrive in this municipal rural communities. Works of art produced in the area comprises, carved doors, walking sticks of different designs, sculptures, flutes, wooden mortars and pestles, gongs, and the famous talking drums. Metal works and various types of productions are locally fashioned.\n\nThe Nnewi people, just like every other Igbo group, have a musical style into which they incorporate various percussion instruments: the udu, which is essentially designed from a clay jug; an ekwe, which is formed from a hollowed log; and the ogene, a hand bell designed from forged iron. Other instruments include opi, a wind instrument similar to the flute, igba, and ichaka.\n\nTraditional marriage\nThere are three types of marriages in Nnewi as also practiced across the Nigerian society: the traditional marriage held in the house of the woman; the official wedding, held in a registry office and which allows only one wife; and the religious marriage.\n\nThe official marriage ceremony is called \"Igbankwu\", which is the Igbo word for the traditional marriage ceremony. Nnewi do not have an \"engagement\" ceremony. Rather, the Igbankwu is preceded by a series of events during which the potential bride's and groom's families engage each other to discuss the terms of the marriage. Perhaps this can be characterized as an engagement.. Please note that Nigeria has 250 ethnic groups and each varies on marriage traditions. Further, within groups there can be even greater differentiation.\n\nThe traditional attire for the men is an overflowing jumper or a long-sleeved shirt worn over the gooji wrapper, which is tied around the waist, curving down to the ankles. This dress is matched with a cap and a walking stick, which aids as an instrument of support and defense. The traditional wear for the women is a blouse, worn over a loin cloth. This female attire goes with a head-tie ear rings and necklaces or traditional necklaces.\n\nIn Nnewi, the occasion of Iri-ji ohuu (new-yam eating) is a cultural festival because of its significance. Nnewi people celebrate their new yam festival usually at the end of August during which assortment of festivities mark the eating of new yam. These festivities normally include a lot of variety entertainment including performance of ceremonial rites by the Igwe (King), cultural dances by Igbo men, women and their children as well as a display of Igbo cultural activities in the form of contemporary shows, masquerade dance, and feasting at a grand scale on a wide variety of food making up the menu of the Igbos.\n\nThe first day of the festival the Igwe of Nnewi will officiate the Harvest thanksgiving ceremony at his palace where the yams are offered to gods and ancestors first before distributing them to the villagers. After the prayer of thanksgiving to god, The Igwe eats the first yam because it is believed that his position gives him the privilege of being intermediaries between Nnewi communities and the gods of the land. The rituals involved in the new yam eating are meant to express the community's appreciation to the gods for making the harvest of their yams possible. This therefore explains the three aspect of Igbo worldview, that they are pragmatic, religious and appreciative.\nThis ceremony has been celebrated for centuries and as has always presented the right conditions for all and sundry, family and friends to come together to demonstrate their commitment and solidarity to their local community. Due to this fact, the Igbos every where in the world do celebrate this event in a highly captivating manner in order to protect and celebrate the enriched cultural heritage of her people.\n\nReligion occupies a central place in the heart of Nnewi people. This counts for the huge churches and religious practices in the city. The people of Nnewi are 96% Christian, with small fractions of other faiths: 2% traditionalist, 0.2% Jews, 0.3% Muslims and 1.5% others.\nAmong the Christian community, the catholic and Anglican Communion shares a greater number of followers followed by other Pentecostal Christian groups.\nChristianity first came on the Southeastern part of Nigeria with the arrival of the Holy Ghost missionaries from Gabon to Onitsha under the leadership of Fr. Joseph Lutz late on Saturday December 5, 1885. Fr. Joseph Shanahan (The Apostle of Igboland) joined them in 1902 and when the mantle of leadership fell on him in 1905, history was set to record the evangelization of Roman Catholic Diocese of Nnewi. The stream of this evangelization was to flow through two main courses almost concurrently: one having Nnewi as its source and the other Ozubulu/Ihiala.\n\nThough individuals from various communities have come in contact with the faith as they traveled to Onitsha and other places for trade and in quest of western education, the actual planting of the seed of the gospel in Nnewi Diocese from the Catholic perspective sprang from the treks of Fr. Victor Duhaze to Ozubulu through Oguta (1906) and to Nnewi through Umuoji, Ojoto Mili Agu down to Odida Nnewichi in 1906.\n\nHowever, the Anglican Church was established in Nnewi from Obosi in 1893. But the seed of what is today Nnewi Diocese was sown in 1809. Requests were made by Odida. Community in Nnewichi inviting Fr. J. Shanahan. In the same year, some Ozubulu indigenes had registered the same requests for establishing a Church station at Ozubulu. Nnewi people are proud of there traditional Odinani as well as the new religion of Christianity.\n@(Note:The Church Missionary Society CMS under the leadership of Bishop Samuel Ajayi Crowther and Reverend Henry Townsend arrived Onitsha on July 27, 1857)\n\nNnewi hosts a number of institutions and places of learning and healing, which include Nnamdi Azikiwe University Teaching Hospital (NAUTH) and a number of international agencies. The Nnamdi Azikiwe University Teaching Hospital, Nnewi, is in the forefront of providing excellent health services to the nation. The hospital and its annexes since inception has provided specialized and comprehensive medical care to the immediate community and beyond. Its mandate also includes undergraduate and postgraduate medical and paramedical training as well as research. These services have grown from strength to strength through the years fueled by comprehensive annual plans approved by the Federal Government.\n\nThe ancient city of Nnewi hosts a number of traditional and formal learning institutions and places of learning, which include a Medical University: Nnamdi Azikiwe University Teaching Hospital (NAUTH)\nGovernment secondary schools: Okongwu Memorial Grammar School, Maria Regina Secondary School, Nnewi High School, Ichi Technical School (Ichi Community), Ichi Girls, Akoboezemu Community Secondary School, Anglican Girls Secondary School, Nnewi-Ichi Community Secondary School etc.\nPrivate schools: Summit International School, The Good Shepherd School, New Era School, Dr. Alutu's College of Excellence School ,christ the king, etc.\n\nCrime rates are low but civil disputes such as land ownership and family inheritance exist. In more recent times, the market square and banks have experienced well publicized and organized criminal attacks that have been allegedly linked to the local police. There are now open debates on reinstating a local vigilante crime fighting group called the Bakkassi Boys, who had a multi-year stint in Nnewi in the late 1990s when crime was on the increase. This group had a modus operandi that many considered barbaric but necessary – convicted thieves were killed in public by dismembering their body parts with a sharp machete and burning them alive. The activities of this group of men which had permission of the Governor of the state was seen by the Human rights activists and civil right movement as a violation of human rights and campaigned against their practices. Recently, Nnewi is relatively peaceful except for isolated occurrences of kidnapping of prominent local citizens for large ransoms.\n\nNnewi is well known as the home of several transport and logistics businesses since the end of the second world war.\nPhilip Odumegwu Ojukwu was one of Nigeria's first transporters and since then, many more transporters have emerged from Nnewi.\nSome of the Nnewi owned transport firms in Nigeria are:\n\nNnewi is also prominent in the hospitality industry with modern hotels that include;\n\n\nSeveral Nigerian fast food chains such as Mr Bigg's, Ever Fresh, Chicken De Royale are located in Nnewi. There are also a variety of local restaurants offering a variety of continental & Igbo dishes, indoor and outdoor catering services.\n\nNnewi is the ancestral home of prominent Nigerians, including:\n"}
{"id": "59941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59941", "title": "Nyaya", "text": "Nyaya\n\nNyaya school's epistemology accepts four out of six \"Pramanas\" as reliable means of gaining knowledge – \"Pratyakṣa\" (perception), \"Anumāṇa\" (inference), \"Upamāṇa\" (comparison and analogy) and \"Śabda\" (word, testimony of past or present reliable experts). In its metaphysics, Nyaya school is closer to Vaisheshika school of Hinduism than others. It holds that human suffering results from mistakes/defects produced by activity under wrong knowledge (notions and ignorance). Moksha (liberation), it states, is gained through right knowledge. This premise led Nyaya to concern itself with epistemology, that is the reliable means to gain correct knowledge and to remove wrong notions. False knowledge is not merely ignorance to Naiyyayikas, it includes delusion. Correct knowledge is discovering and overcoming one's delusions, and understanding true nature of soul, self and reality.\n\nNaiyyayika scholars approached philosophy as a form of direct realism, stating that anything that really exists is in principle humanly knowable. To them, correct knowledge and understanding is different than simple, reflexive cognition; it requires \"Anuvyavasaya\" (अनुव्यवसाय, cross-examination of cognition, reflective cognition of what one thinks one knows). An influential collection of texts on logic and reason is the Nyayasutras, attributed to Aksapada Gautama, variously estimated to have been composed between 6th-century BCE and 2nd-century CE.\n\nNyaya school shares some of its methodology and human suffering foundations with Buddhism; however, a key difference between the two is that Buddhism believes that there is neither a soul nor self; Nyaya school like other schools of Hinduism believes that there is a soul and self, with liberation (moksha) as a state of removal of ignorance, wrong knowledge, the gain of correct knowledge and unimpeded continuation of self.\n\n\"Nyaya\" (न्याय) is a Sanskrit word which means method, rule, specially a collection of general or universal rules. In some contexts, it means model, axiom, plan, legal proceeding, judicial sentence, or judgment. In the theory of logic, and Indian texts discussing it, the term also refers to an argument consisting of an enthymeme or sometimes for any syllogism. In philosophical context, \"Nyaya\" encompasses propriety, logic and method.\n\n\"Nyaya\" is related to several other concepts and words used in Indian philosophies: \"Hetu-vidya\" (science of causes), \"Anviksiki\" (science of inquiry, systematic philosophy), \"Pramana-sastra\" (epistemology, science of correct knowledge), \"Tattva-sastra\" (science of categories), \"Tarka-vidya\" (science of reasoning, innovation, synthesis), \"Vadartha\" (science of discussion) and \"Phakkika-sastra\" (science of uncovering sophism, fraud, error, finding fakes). Some of these subsume or deploy the tools of \"Nyaya\".\n\nThe historical development of Nyaya school is unclear, although \"Nasadiya\" hymns of Book 10 Chapter 129 of Rigveda recite its spiritual questions in logical propositions. In early centuries BCE, states Clooney, the early Nyaya scholars began compiling the science of rational, coherent inquiry and pursuit of knowledge. By 2nd century CE, Aksapada Gautama had composed \"Nyayasutras\", a foundational text for Nyaya school, that primarily discusses logic, methodology and epistemology. The Nyaya scholars that followed refined it, expanded it, and applied it to spiritual questions. While the early Nyaya scholars published little to no analysis on whether supernatural power or God exists, they did apply their insights into reason and reliable means to knowledge to the questions of nature of existence, spirituality, happiness and moksha. Later Nyaya scholars, such as Udayana, examined various arguments on theism and attempted to prove existence of God. Other Nyaya scholars offered arguments to disprove the existence of God.\n\nThe most important contribution made by the Nyaya school to Hindu thought has been its treatises on epistemology and system of logic that, subsequently, has been adopted by the majority of the other Indian schools.\n\nThe Nyaya metaphysics recognizes sixteen \"padartha\"s or categories and includes all six (or seven) categories of the Vaisheshika in the second one of them, called \"prameya\". These sixteen categories are \"pramāṇa\" (valid means of knowledge), \"prameya\" (objects of valid knowledge), \"saṁśaya\" (doubt), \"prayojana\" (aim), \"dṛṣṭānta\" (example), \"siddhānta\" (conclusion), \"avayava\" (members of syllogism), \"tarka\" (hypothetical reasoning), \"nirṇaya\" (settlement), \"vāda\" (discussion), \"jalpa\" (wrangling), \"vitaṇḍā\" (cavilling), \"hetvābhāsa\" (fallacy), \"chala\" (quibbling), \"jāti\" (sophisticated refutation) and \"nigrahasthāna\" (point of defeat).\n\nThe Nyaya school of Hinduism developed and refined many treatises on epistemology that widely influenced other schools of Hinduism. Nyaya treated it as theory of knowledge, and its scholars developed it as \"Pramana-sastras\". \"Pramana\", a Sanskrit word, literally is \"means of knowledge\". It encompasses one or more reliable and valid means by which human beings gain accurate, true knowledge. The focus of Pramana is how correct knowledge can be acquired, how one knows, how one doesn't, and to what extent knowledge pertinent about someone or something can be acquired.\n\nThe Naiyayikas (the Nyaya scholars) accepted four valid means (\"pramaṇa\") of obtaining valid knowledge (\"pramana\") - perception (\"pratyakṣa\"), inference (\"anumāna\"), comparison (\"upamāna\") and word/testimony of reliable sources (\"śabda\"). The Nyaya scholars, along with those from other schools of Hinduism, also developed a theory of error, to methodically establish means to identify errors and the process by which errors are made in human pursuit of knowledge. These include \"Saṁśaya\" (समस्या, problems, inconsistencies, doubts) and \"Viparyaya\" (विपर्यय, contrariness, errors) which can be corrected or resolved by a systematic process of \"Tarka\" ( तर्क, reasoning, technique).\n\n\"Pratyakṣa\" (perception) occupies the foremost position in the Nyaya epistemology. Perception can be of two types, \"laukika\" (ordinary) and \"alaukika\" (extraordinary). Ordinary perception is defined by Akṣapāda Gautama in his \"Nyaya Sutra\" (I,i.4) as a 'non-erroneous cognition which is produced by the intercourse of sense-organs with the objects'.\n\nIndian texts identify four requirements for correct perception: \"Indriyarthasannikarsa\" (direct experience by one's sensory organ(s) with the object, whatever is being studied), \"Avyapadesya\" (non-verbal; correct perception is not through hearsay, according to ancient Indian scholars, where one's sensory organ relies on accepting or rejecting someone else's perception), \"Avyabhicara\" (does not wander; correct perception does not change, nor is it the result of deception because one's sensory organ or means of observation is drifting, defective, suspect) and \"Vyavasayatmaka\" (definite; correct perception excludes judgments of doubt, either because of one's failure to observe all the details, or because one is mixing inference with observation and observing what one wants to observe, or not observing what one does not want to observe).\n\nOrdinary perception to Nyaya scholars was based on direct experience of reality by eyes, ears, nose, touch and taste. Extraordinary perception included \"yogaja\" or \"pratibha\" (intuition), \"samanyalaksanapratyaksa\" (a form of induction from perceived specifics to a universal), and \"jnanalaksanapratyaksa\" (a form of perception of prior processes and previous states of a 'topic of study' by observing its current state).\n\nThe Naiyyayika maintains two modes or stages in perception. The first is called \"nirvikalpa\" (indeterminate), when one just perceives an object without being able to know its features, and the second \"savikalpa\" (determinate), when one is able to clearly know an object. All laukika and alaukika pratyakshas are \"savikalpa\", but it is necessarily preceded by an earlier stage when it is indeterminate. Vātsāyana says that if an object is perceived with its name we have determinate perception but if it is perceived without a name, we have indeterminate perception. Jayanta Bhatta says that indeterminate perception apprehends substance, qualities and actions and universals as separate and indistinct something and also it does not have any association with name, while determinate perception aprrehends all these together with a name. There is yet another stage called \"Pratyabhijñā\", when one is able to re-recognise something on the basis of memory.\n\n\"Anumāna\" (inference) is one of the most important contributions of the Nyaya. It can be of two types: inference for oneself (\"Svarthanumana\", where one does not need any formal procedure, and at the most the last three of their 5 steps), and inference for others (\"Parathanumana\", which requires a systematic methodology of 5 steps). Inference can also be classified into 3 types: \"Purvavat\" (inferring an unperceived effect from a perceived cause), \"Sheshavat\" (inferring an unperceived cause from a perceived effect) and \"Samanyatodrishta\" (when inference is not based on causation but on uniformity of co-existence). A detailed analysis of error is also given, explaining when anumana could be false.\n\nThe methodology of inference involves a combination of induction and deduction by moving from particular to particular via generality. It has five steps, as in the example shown:\n\nIn Nyāya terminology for this example, the hill would be called as \"paksha\" (minor term), the fire is called as \"sādhya\" (major term), the smoke is called as \"hetu\", and the relationship between the smoke and the fire is called as \"vyapti\" (middle term). Hetu further has five characteristics: (1) It must be present in the Paksha, (2) It must be present in all positive instances, (3) It must be absent in all negative instances, (4) It must not incompatible with the minor term or Paksha and (5) All other contradictions by other means of knowledge should be absent. The fallacies in Anumana (\"hetvābhasa\") may occur due to the following:\n\n\n\"Upamāna\" (उपमान) means comparison and analogy. \"Upamana\", states Lochtefeld, may be explained with the example of a traveller who has never visited lands or islands with endemic population of wildlife. He or she is told, by someone who has been there, that in those lands you see an animal that sort of looks like a cow, grazes like cow but is different from a cow in such and such way. Such use of analogy and comparison is, state the Indian epistemologists, a valid means of conditional knowledge, as it helps the traveller identify the new animal later. The subject of comparison is formally called \"upameyam\", the object of comparison is called \"upamānam\", while the attribute(s) are identified as \"sāmānya\". Thus, explains Monier Williams, if a boy says \"her face is like the moon in charmingness\", \"her face\" is \"upameyam\", the moon is \"upamānam\", and charmingness is \"sāmānya\". The 7th century text Bhaṭṭikāvya in verses 10.28 through 10.63 discusses many types of comparisons and analogies, identifying when this epistemic method is more useful and reliable, and when it is not. In various ancient and medieval texts of Hinduism, 32 types of \"Upamāna\" and their value in epistemology are debated.\n\n\"Śabda\" (शब्द) means relying on word, testimony of past or present reliable experts. Hiriyanna explains \"Sabda-pramana\" as a concept which means testimony of a reliable and trustworthy person (\"āptavākya\"). The schools of Hinduism which consider it epistemically valid suggest that a human being needs to know numerous facts, and with the limited time and energy available, he can learn only a fraction of those facts and truths directly. He must rely on others, his parent, family, friends, teachers, ancestors and kindred members of society to rapidly acquire and share knowledge and thereby enrich each other's lives. This means of gaining proper knowledge is either spoken or written, but through \"Sabda\" (words). The reliability of the source is important, and legitimate knowledge can only come from the \"Sabda\" of reliable sources. The disagreement between the schools of Hinduism has been on how to establish reliability. Some schools, such as Carvaka, state that this is never possible, and therefore \"Sabda\" is not a proper pramana. Other schools debate means to establish reliability.\n\nTestimony can be of two types, \"Vaidika\" (Vedic), which are the words of the four sacred Vedas, and \"Laukika\", or words and writings of trustworthy human beings. \"Vaidika\" testimony is preferred over \"Laukika\" testimony. Laukika-sourced knowledge must be questioned and revised as more trustworthy knowledge becomes available.\n\nEach school of Hinduism has its own treatises on epistemology, with different number of \"Pramanas\". For example, compared to Nyaya school's four \"pramanas\", Carvaka school has just one (perception), while Advaita Vedanta school recognizes six means to reliable knowledge.\n\nA \"cause\" is defined as an unconditional and invariable antecedent of an \"effect\" and an effect as an unconditional and invariable consequent of a cause. The same cause produces the same effect; and the same effect is produced by the same cause. The cause is \"not\" present in any hidden form whatsoever in its effect.\n\nThe following conditions should be met:\n\nNyaya recognizes five kinds of accidental antecedents [Anyathasiddha]\n\n\nNyaya recognizes three kinds of cause:\n\n\nThe Nyaya theory of error is similar to that of Kumarila's Viparita-khyati (see Mimamsa). The Naiyyayikas also believe like Kumarila that error is due to a wrong synthesis of the presented and the represented objects. The represented object is confused with the presented one. The word 'anyatha' means 'elsewise' and 'elsewhere' and both these meanings are brought out in error. The presented object is perceived elsewise and the represented object exists elsewhere. They further maintain that knowledge is not intrinsically valid but becomes so on account of extraneous conditions (\"paratah pramana\" during both validity and invalidity).\n\nEarly Naiyyayikas wrote very little about Ishvara (literally, the Supreme Soul). Evidence available so far suggests that early Nyaya scholars were non-theistic or atheists. Later, and over time, Nyaya scholars tried to apply some of their epistemological insights and methodology to the question: does God exist? Some offered arguments against and some in favor.\n\nIn Nyayasutra's Book 4, Chapter 1, verses 19-21, postulates God exists, states a consequence, then presents contrary evidence, and from contradiction concludes that the postulate must be invalid.\n\nA literal interpretation of the three verses suggests that Nyaya school rejected the need for a God for the efficacy of human activity. Since human action and results do not require assumption or need of the existence of God, sutra IV.1.21 is seen as a criticism of the \"existence of God and theism postulate\". The context of the above verses includes various efficient causes. Nyayasutra verses IV.1.22 to IV.1.24, for example, examine the hypothesis that \"random chance\" explains the world, after these Indian scholars had rejected God as the efficient cause.\n\nUdayana's \"Nyayakusumanjali\" gave the following nine arguments to prove the existence of creative God:\n\n\nThe Naiyyayikas believe that the bondage of the world is due to false knowledge, which can be removed by constantly thinking of its opposite (\"pratipakshabhavana\"), namely, the true knowledge. So the opening aphorism of the \"\" states that only the true knowledge lead to \"niḥśreyasa\" (liberation). But the Nyaya school also maintains that the God's grace is essential for obtaining true knowledge. Jayanta, in his \"Nyayamanjari\" describes salvation as a passive stage of self in its natural purity, unassociated with pleasure, pain, knowledge and willingness.\n\nThe earliest text of the Nyāya School is the ' of . The text is divided into five books, each having two sections. 's ' is a classic commentary on the '. Udyotakara's ' (6th century CE) is written to defend against the attacks made by . 's ' (9th century CE) is the next major exposition of this school. Two other texts, ' and ' are also attributed to him. Udayana's (984 CE) ' is an important commentary on 's treatise. His ' is the first systematic account of theistic '. His other works include ', ' and '. Jayanta Bhatta's ' (10th century CE) is basically an independent work. 's ' (10th century CE) is a survey of ' philosophy.\n\nThe later works on ' accepted the ' categories and 's ' (12th century CE) is a notable treatise of this syncretist school. 's ' (13th century CE) is another important work of this school.\n\n's ' (12th century CE) is the first major treatise of the new school of '. His son, 's ' (1225 CE), though a commentary on Udayana's ', incorporated his father's views. Jayadeva wrote a commentary on \"\" known as ' (13th century CE). 's ' (16th century CE) is first great work of Navadvipa school of . 's ' and ' are the next important works of this school. 's ' (17th century CE) is also a notable work. The Commentaries on ' by Jagadish Tarkalankar (17th century CE) and Gadadhar Bhattacharya (17th century CE) are the last two notable works of this school.\n\n\nNavya-nyaya school\n\n"}
{"id": "7481923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7481923", "title": "OSPAR Convention", "text": "OSPAR Convention\n\nThe Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the North-East Atlantic or OSPAR Convention is the current legislative instrument regulating international cooperation on environmental protection in the North-East Atlantic. It combines and up-dates the 1972 Oslo Convention on dumping waste at sea and the 1974 Paris Convention on land-based sources of marine pollution. Work carried out under the convention is managed by the OSPAR Commission, which is made up of representatives of the Governments of the 15 signatory nations, and representatives of the European Commission, representing the European Union.\n\nThe OSPAR Convention was concluded at Paris on 22 September 1992.\n\nThe Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the North-East Atlantic was opened for signature at the Ministerial Meeting of the Oslo and Paris Commissions in Paris on 22 September, 1992. The Convention has been signed and ratified by all of the Contracting Parties to the original Oslo or Paris Conventions (Belgium, Denmark, the European Community, Finland, France, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland) and by Luxembourg and Switzerland. The OSPAR Convention entered into force on 25 March, 1998, and replaced the Oslo and Paris Conventions, but decisions and other agreements adopted under those conventions remained applicable unless they are terminated by new measures adopted under the OSPAR Convention. \nThe first Ministerial Meeting of the OSPAR Commission at Sintra, Portugal, in 1998 adopted Annex V to the Convention, extending the cooperation of the signatory parties to cover \"all human activities that might adversely affect the marine environment of the North East Atlantic\". Nevertheless, programmes and measures cannot be adopted under the Convention on questions relating to fisheries management, which are currently coordinated by European nations in the north east Atlantic and North Sea by the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES). The OSPAR convention now regulates European standards on marine biodiversity, eutrophication, the release of hazardous and radioactive substances into the seas, the offshore oil and gas industry and baseline monitoring of environmental conditions.\n\nIn 2000, the OSPAR Commission published a comprehensive report on the quality of the marine environment of the North-East Atlantic. This was supported by five smaller reports on the different parts of the OSPAR maritime area –the Arctic, the Greater North Sea, the Celtic Seas, the Bay of Biscay/Golfe de Gascogne and Iberian waters, and the Wider Atlantic.\n\nAccording to the , if tritium and iodine 129 discharges from the La Hague site into the Alderney Race do not diminish significantly, it will be difficult to achieve the objective of zero radioelement concentrations in the North Atlantic by 2020.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4711003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4711003", "title": "Osmotic power", "text": "Osmotic power\n\nOsmotic power, salinity gradient power or blue energy is the energy available from the difference in the salt concentration between seawater and river water. Two practical methods for this are reverse electrodialysis (RED) and\npressure retarded osmosis (PRO). Both processes rely on osmosis with membranes. The key waste product is brackish water. This byproduct is the result of natural forces that are being harnessed: the flow of fresh water into seas that are made up of salt water.\n\nIn 1954, Pattle suggested that there was an untapped source of power when a river mixes with the sea, in terms of the lost osmotic pressure, however it was not until the mid ‘70s where a practical method of exploiting it using selectively permeable membranes by Loeb was outlined.\n\nThe method of generating power by pressure retarded osmosis was invented by Prof. Sidney Loeb in 1973 at the Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beersheba, Israel. The idea came to Prof. Loeb, in part, as he observed the Jordan River flowing into the Dead Sea. He wanted to harvest the energy of mixing of the two aqueous solutions (the Jordan River being one and the Dead Sea being the other) that was going to waste in this natural mixing process. In 1977 Prof. Loeb invented a method of producing power by a reverse electrodialysis heat engine.\n\nThe technologies have been confirmed in laboratory conditions. They are being developed into commercial use in the Netherlands (RED) and Norway (PRO). The cost of the membrane has been an obstacle. A new, lower cost membrane, based on an electrically modified polyethylene plastic, made it fit for potential commercial use. Other methods have been proposed and are currently under development. Among them, a method based on electric double-layer capacitor\ntechnology. and a method based on vapor pressure difference.\n\nSalinity gradient power is a specific renewable energy alternative that creates renewable and sustainable power by using naturally occurring processes. This practice does not contaminate or release carbon dioxide (CO) emissions (vapor pressure methods will release dissolved air containing CO at low pressures—these non-condensable gases can be re-dissolved of course, but with an energy penalty). Also as stated by Jones and Finley within their article “Recent Development in Salinity Gradient Power”, there is basically no fuel cost.\n\nSalinity gradient energy is based on using the resources of “osmotic pressure difference between fresh water and sea water.” All energy that is proposed to use salinity gradient technology relies on the evaporation to separate water from salt. Osmotic pressure is the \"chemical potential of concentrated and dilute solutions of salt\". When looking at relations between high osmotic pressure and low, solutions with higher concentrations of salt have higher pressure.\n\nDiffering salinity gradient power generations exist but one of the most commonly discussed is pressure-retarded osmosis (PRO). Within PRO seawater is pumped into a pressure chamber where the pressure is lower than the difference between fresh and salt water pressure. Fresh water moves in a semipermeable membrane and increases its volume in the chamber. As the pressure in the chamber is compensated a turbine spins to generate electricity. In Braun's article he states that this process is easy to understand in a more broken down manner. Two solutions, A being salt water and B being fresh water are separated by a membrane. He states \"only water molecules can pass the semipermeable membrane. As a result of the osmotic pressure difference between both solutions, the water from solution B thus will diffuse through the membrane in order to dilute solution A\". The pressure drives the turbines and power the generator that produces the electrical energy. Osmosis might be used directly to \"pump\" fresh water out of The Netherlands into the sea. This is currently done using electric pumps.\n\nA 2012 study on efficiency from Yale university concluded that the highest extractable work in constant-pressure PRO with a seawater draw solution and river water feed solution is 0.75 kWh/m while the free energy of mixing is 0.81 kWh/m—a thermodynamic extraction efficiency of 91.0%.\n\nWhile the mechanics and concepts of salinity gradient power are still being studied, the power source has been implemented in several different locations. Most of these are experimental, but thus far they have been predominantly successful. The various companies that have utilized this power have also done so in many different ways as there are several concepts and processes that harness the power from salinity gradient.\n\nOne method to utilize salinity gradient energy is called pressure-retarded osmosis. In this method, seawater is pumped into a pressure chamber that is at a pressure lower than the difference between the pressures of saline water and fresh water. Freshwater is also pumped into the pressure chamber through a membrane, which increase both the volume and pressure of the chamber. As the pressure differences are compensated, a turbine is spun, providing kinetic energy. This method is being specifically studied by the Norwegian utility Statkraft, which has calculated that up to 2.85 GW would be available from this process in Norway. Statkraft has built the world's first prototype PRO power plant on the Oslo fjord which was opened by Princess Mette-Marit of Norway on November 24, 2009. It aims to produce enough electricity to light and heat a small town within five years by osmosis. At first, it will produce a minuscule 4 kilowatts – enough to heat a large electric kettle, but by 2015 the target is 25 megawatts – the same as a small wind farm. In January 2014 however Statkraft announced not to continue this pilot.\n\nA second method being developed and studied is reversed electrodialysis or reverse dialysis, which is essentially the creation of a salt battery. This method was described by Weinstein and Leitz as “an array of alternating anion and cation exchange membranes can be used to generate electric power from the free energy of river and sea water.”\n\nThe technology related to this type of power is still in its infant stages, even though the principle was discovered in the 1950s. Standards and a complete understanding of all the ways salinity gradients can be utilized are important goals to strive for in order make this clean energy source more viable in the future.\n\nA third method is Doriano Brogioli's capacitive method, which is relatively new and has so far only been tested on lab scale. With this method energy can be extracted out of the mixing of saline water and freshwater by cyclically charging up electrodes in contact with saline water, followed by a discharge in freshwater. Since the amount of electrical energy which is needed during the charging step is less than one gets out during the discharge step, each completed cycle effectively produces energy. An intuitive explanation of this effect is that the great number of ions in the saline water efficiently neutralizes the charge on each electrode by forming a thin layer of opposite charge very close to the electrode surface, known as an electric double layer. Therefore, the voltage over the electrodes remains low during the charge step and charging is relatively easy. In between the charge and discharge step, the electrodes are brought in contact with freshwater. After this, there are less ions available to neutralize the charge on each electrode such that the voltage over the electrodes increases. The discharge step which follows is therefore able to deliver a relatively high amount of energy. A physical explanation is that on an electrically charged capacitor, there is a mutually attractive electric force between the electric charge on the electrode, and the ionic charge in the liquid. In order to pull ions away from the charged electrode, osmotic pressure must do work. This work done increases the electrical potential energy in the capacitor. An electronic explanation is that capacitance is a function of ion density. By introducing a salinity gradient and allowing some of the ions to diffuse out of the capacitor, this reduces the capacitance, and so the voltage must increase, since the voltage equals the ratio of charge to capacitance.\n\nBoth of these methods do not rely on membranes, so filtration requirements are not as important as they are in the PRO & RED schemes.\n\nSimilar to the open cycle in ocean thermal energy conversion (OTEC). The disadvantage of this cycle is the cumbersome problem of a large diameter turbine (75 meters +) operating at below atmospheric pressure to extract the power between the water with less salinity & the water with greater salinity.\n\nFor the purpose of dehumidifying air, in a water-spray absorption refrigeration system, water vapor is dissolved into a deliquescent salt water mixture using osmotic power as an intermediary. The primary power source originates from a thermal difference, as part of a thermodynamic heat engine cycle.\n\nAt the Eddy Potash Mine in New Mexico, a technology called \"salinity gradient solar pond\" (SGSP) is being utilized to provide the energy needed by the mine. This method does not harness osmotic power, only solar power (see: solar pond). Sunlight reaching the bottom of the saltwater pond is absorbed as heat. The effect of natural convection, wherein \"heat rises\", is blocked using density differences between the three layers that make up the pond, in order to trap heat. The upper convection zone is the uppermost zone, followed by the stable gradient zone, then the bottom thermal zone. The stable gradient zone is the most important. The saltwater in this layer can not rise to the higher zone because the saltwater above has lower salinity and is therefore less-dense and more buoyant; and it can not sink to the lower level because that saltwater is denser. This middle zone, the stable gradient zone, effectively becomes an \"insulator\" for the bottom layer (although the main purpose is to block natural convection, since water is a poor insulator). This water from the lower layer, the storage zone, is pumped out and the heat is used to produce energy, usually by turbine in an organic Rankine cycle.\n\nIn theory a solar pond \"could\" be used to generate osmotic power if evaporation from solar heat is used to create a salinity gradient, \"and\" the potential energy in this salinity gradient is \"harnessed directly\" using one of the first three methods above, such as the capacitive method.\n\nA research team built an experimental system using boron nitride that produced much greater power than the Statoil prototype. It used an impermeable and electrically insulating membrane that was pierced by a single boron nitride nanotube with an external diameter of a few dozen nanometers. With this membrane separating a salt water reservoir and a fresh water reservoir, the team measured the electric current passing through the membrane using two electrodes immersed in the fluid either side of the nanotube.\n\nThe results showed the device was able to generate an electric current on the order of a nanoampere. The researchers claim this is 1,000 times the yield of other known techniques for harvesting osmotic energy and makes boron nitride nanotubes an extremely efficient solution for harvesting the energy of salinity gradients for usable electrical power.\n\nThe team claimed that a membrane could generate around 4 kW and be capable of generating up to 30 MWh per year.\n\nAt Pennsylvania State University, Dr. Logan tries to use waste heat with low calority using the fact that ammonium bicarbonate disappears into NH and CO in warm water to form ammonia bicarbonate again in cold water. So in a RED energy producing closed system the two different gradients of salinity are kept.\n\nMarine and river environments have obvious differences in water quality, namely salinity. Each species of aquatic plant and animal is adapted to survive in either marine, brackish, or freshwater environments. There are species that can tolerate both, but these species usually thrive best in a specific water environment. The main waste product of salinity gradient technology is brackish water. The discharge of brackish water into the surrounding waters, if done in large quantities and with any regularity, will cause salinity fluctuations. While some variation in salinity is usual, particularly where fresh water (rivers) empties into an ocean or sea anyway, these variations become less important for both bodies of water with the addition of brackish waste waters. Extreme salinity changes in an aquatic environment may result in findings of low densities of both animals and plants due to intolerance of sudden severe salinity drops or spikes. According to the prevailing environmentalist opinions, the possibility of these negative effects should be considered by the operators of future large blue energy establishments.\n\nThe impact of brackish water on ecosystems can be minimized by pumping it out to sea and releasing it into the mid-layer, away from the surface and bottom ecosystems.\n\nImpingement and entrainment at intake structures are a concern due to large volumes of both river and sea water utilized in both PRO and RED schemes. Intake construction permits must meet strict environmental regulations and desalination plants and power plants that utilize surface water are sometimes involved with various local, state and federal agencies to obtain permission that can take upwards to 18 months.\n\n"}
{"id": "4496406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4496406", "title": "Palathulli", "text": "Palathulli\n\nThe Palathulli (Malayalam:പലതുള്ളി, ) program is a water conservation campaign run by the Malayala Manorama newspaper in Kerala, India, for raising awareness on the importance of water conservation and rainwater harvesting.\n\nThe campaign included exhibitions and video shows which were organized throughout the region.\n\nThe newspaper was awarded the 2005 IPDC-UNESCO Prize for Rural Communication.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8967572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8967572", "title": "Polyisoprene", "text": "Polyisoprene\n\nPolyisoprene is a collective name for polymers that are produced by polymerization of isoprene. In principle, four different isomers can form. Cis-1,4-polyisoprene, which is also called isoprene rubber, is a major ingredient of natural rubber. Trans-1,4-polyisoprene is a major ingredient of gutta-percha. Annual worldwide production of polyisoprene was 13,000 kilotonne in 2007. \n\nThe percentage of repeating units of polyisoprene is dependent on the reaction mechanism.\n\nAnionic chain polymerization, which is initiated by n-Butyllithium, produces cis-1,4-polyisoprene dominant polyisoprene. 90–92% of repeating units are \"cis\"-1,4-, 2–3% \"trans\"-1,4- and 6–7% 3,4-units.\n\nCoordinative chain polymerization: With Ziegler–Natta catalyst TiCl/Al(\"i\"-CH), more pure Cis-1,4-polyisoprene is formed. Natural rubber is more pure cis-1,4-polyisoprene. With Ziegler–Natta catalyst VCl/Al(\"i\"-CH), trans-dorminant polyisoprene is formed.\n1,2 and 3,4 dorminant polyisoprene is produced MoOCl catalyst supported by phosphorus ligand and Al(OPhCH)(i-Bu) co-catalyst.\n\nNatural Gutta-percha and synthesized trans-1,4-polyisoprenes are used for golf balls. Natural rubber and synthesized cis-1,4-polyisoprene are used for elastomer.\n\nPolyisoprene condoms provide an alternative to traditional latex condoms.\n\n"}
{"id": "4406024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4406024", "title": "Praxithea", "text": "Praxithea\n\nIn Greek mythology, Praxithea (; Ancient Greek: Πραξιθέα) was a name attributed to five women.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1786938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1786938", "title": "Sechura Desert", "text": "Sechura Desert\n\nThe Sechura Desert is located south of the Piura Region of Peru along the Pacific Ocean coast and inland to the foothills of the Andes Mountains. Its extreme aridity is caused by the upwelling of cold coastal waters and subtropical atmospheric subsidence, but it is also subject to occasional flooding during El Niño years. In 1728, the town of Sechura was destroyed by a tsunami and was later rebuilt in its present location. In 1998, runoff from flooding rivers caused the formation of a temporary lake some long filling the Bayóvar Depression. Short rivers flowing across the desert from the Andes support intensive irrigation-based agriculture.\n\nWithin Peru, the desert is described as the strip along the northern Pacific coast of Peru in the southern Piura and western Lambayeque regions, and extending from the coast 20–100 km inland to the secondary ridges of the Andes Mountains. At its northern end near the city of Piura, the Sechura Desert transitions to the Tumbes-Piura dry forests ecoregion. Comprising much of eastern Lambayeque Region, this habitat is composed of equatorial dry forests. The total area of the Sechura Desert is 188,735 km².\n\nWhile a desert, the Sechura has been subject to flooding from rivers and to storms driven in from the Pacific Ocean. In 1728, a tsunami generated from an earthquake swept inland, destroying the town of Sechura, then located closer to the water. Survivors moved inland and re-established the town in its current location.\n\nDuring \"El Niño\" years, flooding in the desert regularly occurs. In 1998, the runoff from the flooding rivers poured into the coastal Sechura Desert. Where there had been nothing but arid, hardscrabble waste for 15 years, suddenly, the second-largest lake in Peru had developed: 90 mi (145 km) long, 20 mi (30 km) wide, and 10 ft (3 m) deep, with occasional parched domes of sand and clay poking up from the surface.\n\nThe Peruvian Desert has a low range of temperature changes due to the moderating effect of the nearby Pacific Ocean. Because of the upwelling of cold coastal waters and subtropical atmospheric subsidence, the desert is one of the most arid on Earth.\n\nSummer (December through March) is warm and sunny with temperatures above during the day, and temperatures that average over . In the winter (June through September) the weather is cool and cloudy with temperatures that vary from at night to during the day.\n\nThe Bayóvar Depression, which is the lowest point in Peru and all of the Southern Tropics, is located in this desert.\n\nThe numerous short rivers that cross the Sechura supported prehistoric indigenous human settlements for millennia. A number of urban cultures flourished here, including the Moche. The Moche survived on a diet of fish, guinea pigs, camelids, squash, and peanuts. The Sican Culture (\"circa\" 800–1300 CE) succeeded the Moche, and developed refined techniques of lost wax goldsmithing. \n\nToday, the rivers support intensive irrigated agriculture on the fertile bottomlands. Two of Peru's five largest cities, including Piura and Chiclayo, lie within the agricultural region in the north.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13367589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13367589", "title": "Soil carbon", "text": "Soil carbon\n\nSoil carbon includes both inorganic carbon as carbonate minerals, and as soil organic matter. Soil carbon plays a key role in the carbon cycle, and thus it is important in global climate models.\n\nSoil carbon is present in two forms: inorganic and organic. Soil inorganic carbon consists of mineral forms of C, either from weathering of parent material, or from reaction of soil minerals with atmospheric CO. Carbonate minerals are the dominant form of soil carbon in desert climates. Soil organic carbon is present as soil organic matter. It includes relatively available C as fresh plant remains and relatively inert C in materials derived from plant remains: humus and charcoal.\n\nOf the 2,700 Gt of C stored in soils worldwide, 1550 GtC is organic and 950 GtC is inorganic carbon, which is approximately three times greater than the current atmospheric C and 240 times higher compared with the current annual fossil fuel emission. The balance of soil carbon is held in peat and wetlands (150 GtC), and in plant litter at the soil surface (50 GtC). This compares to 780 GtC in the atmosphere, and 600 GtC in all living organisms. The oceanic pool holds 38,200 GtC.\n\nAbout 60 GtC/yr is added to soil. This 60 GtC/yr is the balance of 120 GtC/yr taken out of the atmosphere by terrestrial plant photosynthesis reduced by 60 GtC/yr plant respiration. An equivalent 60 GtC/yr is respired from soil, joining the 60G tC/yr plant respiration to return to the atmosphere.\n\nSoil organic carbon is divided between living soil biota and dead biotic material derived from biomass. Together these comprise the soil food web, with the living component sustained by the biotic material component. Soil biota includes earthworms, nematodes, protozoa, fungi, bacteria and different arthropods.\n\nDetritus resulting from plant senescence is the major source of soil organic carbon. Plant materials, with cell walls high in cellulose and lignin, are decomposed and the not-respired carbon is retained as humus. Cellulose and starches are easily degraded, resulting in relatively short residence times. More persistent forms of organic C include lignin, humus, organic matter encapsulated in soil aggregates, and charcoal. These resist alteration and have long residence times.\n\nSoil organic carbon tends to be concentrated in the topsoil. Topsoil ranges from 0.5% to 3.0% organic C for most upland soils. Soils with less than 0.5% organic C are mostly limited to desert areas. Soils containing greater than 12 - 18% organic C are generally classified as organic soils. High levels of organic C develop in soils supporting wetland ecology, flood deposition, fire ecology, and human activity.\n\nFire derived forms of carbon are present in most soils as unweathered charcoal and weathered black carbon. Soil organic C is typically 5 - 50% derived from char, with levels above 50% encountered in mollisol, chernozem, and terra preta soils.\n\nRoot exudates are another source of soil carbon. 5 - 20% of the total plant carbon fixed during photosynthesis is supplied as root exudates in support of rhizospheric mutualistic biota. Microbial populations are typically higher in the rhizosphere than in adjacent bulk soil.\n\nOrganic carbon is vital to soil capacity to provide edaphic ecosystem services. The condition of this capacity is termed soil health, a term that communicates the value of understanding soil as a living system as opposed to an abiotic component. Specific carbon related benchmarks used to evaluate soil health include CO release, humus levels, and microbial metabolic activity.\n\nThe exchange of carbon between soils and the atmosphere is a significant part of the world carbon cycle. Carbon, as it relates to the organic matter of soils, is a major component of soil and catchment health. Several factors affect the variation that exists in soil organic matter and soil carbon; the most significant has, in contemporary times, been the influence of humans and agricultural systems.\n\nAlthough exact quantities are difficult to measure, human activities have caused massive losses of soil organic carbon. First was the use of fire, which removes soil cover and leads to immediate and continuing losses of soil organic carbon. Tillage and drainage both expose soil organic matter to oxygen and oxidation. In the Netherlands, East Anglia, Florida, and the California Delta, subsidence of peat lands from oxidation has been severe as a result of tillage and drainage. Grazing management that exposes soil (through either excessive or insufficient recovery periods) can also cause losses of soil organic.\n\nNatural variations in soil carbon occur as a result of climate, organisms, parent material, time, and relief. The greatest contemporary influence has been that of humans; for example, carbon in Australian agricultural soils may historically have been twice the present range that is typically from 1.6 to 4.6 per cent.\n\nIt has long been encouraged that farmers adjust practices to maintain or increase the organic component in the soil. On one hand, practices that hasten oxidation of carbon (such as burning crop stubbles or over-cultivation) are discouraged; on the other hand, incorporation of organic material (such as in manuring) has been encouraged. Increasing soil carbon is not a straightforward matter; it is made complex by the relative activity of soil biota, which can consume and release carbon and are made more active by the addition of nitrogen fertilizers.\n\nThe most homogeneous and comprehensive data on the organic carbon/matter content of European soils remain those that can be extracted and/or derived from the European Soil Database in combination with associated databases on land cover, climate, and topography. The modelled data refer to carbon content (%) in the surface horizon of soils in Europe. In an inventory on available national datasets, seven member states of the European Union have available datasets on organic carbon. In the article \"Estimating soil organic carbon in Europe based on data collected through an European network\" (Ecological Indicators 24, pp. 439–450), a comparison of national data with modelled data is performed. The LUCAS soil organic carbon data are measured surveyed points and the aggregated results at regional level show important findings. Finally, a new proposed model for estimation of soil organic carbon in agricultural soils has estimated current top SOC stock of 17.63 Gt in EU agricultural soils.\n\nMuch of the contemporary literature on soil carbon relates to its role, or potential, as an atmospheric carbon sink to offset climate change. Despite this emphasis, a much wider range of soil and catchment health aspects are improved as soil carbon is increased. These benefits are difficult to quantify, due to the complexity of natural resource systems and the interpretation of what constitutes soil health; nonetheless, several benefits are proposed in the following points:\n\n\nForest soils constitute a large pool of carbon. Anthropogenic activities such as deforestation cause releases of carbon from this pool, which may significantly increase the concentration of greenhouse gas (GHG) in the atmosphere. Under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), countries must estimate and report GHG emissions and removals, including changes in carbon stocks in all five pools (above- and below-ground biomass, dead wood, litter, and soil carbon) and associated emissions and removals from land use, land-use change and forestry activities, according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's good practice guidance. Tropical deforestation represents nearly 25 percent of total anthropogenic GHG emissions worldwide. Deforestation, forest degradation, and changes in land management practices can cause releases of carbon from soil to the atmosphere. For these reasons, reliable estimates of soil organic carbon stock and stock changes are needed for Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation and GHG reporting under the UNFCCC.\n\nThe government of Tanzania—together with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and the financial support of the government of Finland—have implemented a forest soil carbon monitoring program to estimate soil carbon stock, using both survey and modelling-based methods.\n\n"}
{"id": "5259473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5259473", "title": "Stones of India", "text": "Stones of India\n\nIndia possesses a wide spectrum of dimensional stones that include granite, marble, sandstone, limestone, slate, and quartzite, in various parts of the country. \n\nThe Indian stone industry has evolved into the production and manufacturing of blocks, flooring slabs, structural slabs, monuments, tomb stones, sculptures, cobbles, pebbles and landscape garden stones.\n\nIndia's history, dating back to 3200 BC has been influenced considerably by the disposition, development and use of stones and other construction materials. Dimension stones have also left deep imprints on the architectural heritage of the country. Innumerable temples, forts and palaces of Ancient Indian Civilisation have been carved out of locally available stones. The Taj Mahal at Agra was constructed from Indian marble. Some of the rock-cut structures include Khajuraho Temple, Elephanta Caves, and Konark Temple. Besides, all major archeological excavations have revealed exquisitely carved statuettes and carvings in stone. Ancient Buddhist monuments like the Sanchi Stupa of 3rd century BC have also been carved out of stone.\n\nThis tradition of Stone Architecture has continued to the present era, with most of the important modern buildings in India like the Presidential House, Parliament House, and Supreme Court made from high quality sandstone of Rajasthan. The Bahá'í House of Worship of New Delhi stands testimony to the relevance of marble in modern Indian architecture.\n\nStones are still the mainstays of civil construction in India, with stones being used extensively in public buildings, hotels, and temples. It is increasingly being used in homes, with the use of stones now penetrating amongst the growing middle class of India.\n\nThe success of commercial stone industry solely depends upon defects in rock/stone. Natural defects in ornamental/commercial rock deposits adversely affect the quality of rock deposit. Detection of natural defects in decorative and dimensional stone industry play vital role in the quality assessment.\n\nIndia is pioneer in the exploration, mining of commercial rock deposits and in establishing a firm base for stone industry. India, with an estimated resource of about 1,690 million cu m, comprising over 160 shades of Dimension Stone Granites (DSG), accounts for about 205 of the world resources. Of the 300 varieties being traded in the world market, nearly half of them are from India. Commercially viable granite and other rock deposits are reported from Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Orissa, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, and others.\n\nMarble was used for building tombs, temples and palaces. For a time it was considered as \"Royal Stone\". It is, however, now used in hotels and homes too. There are many varieties.\n\nIndia has varieties of granite in over 200 shades. As of 2005, Granite reserves in India was 37,426 million cubic metres and ranked fifth in export of processed product. Resources are found in Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh.\n\nSandstone reserves in India are found over the states of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Karnataka, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. Over 90% of the deposits of sandstone are in Rajasthan, spread over the districts of Bharatpur, Dholpur, Kota, Jodhpur, Sawai-Madhopur, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Bikaner, Jhalawar, Pali, Shivpuri, Khatu and Jaisalmer.\n\nIndia is among the leading countries when it comes to mining and export of sandstone. The best part with Sandstone from India is that it is available in different colors and considered best for interior as well as exterior use. Few most popular sandstone products from India include names like Tint Mint, White Mint, Mint Fossils, Modak, Agra Red, Rainbow Sandstone, Raj Green, Teak, Buff Brown, Dhoplur Chocolate, Beige, Dholpur Pink, Lalitpur Pink, Mandana Red, Jodhpur pink, Jodhpur red, Jaisalmer yellow etc.\n\nThese sandstone are available in a number of finishes and come with great strength. However, Sandstone like Rainbow is only available in layered form and so is not suitable when good thickness is required and Jodhpur sandstone is best when used in front elevation and high comprehensive strength. To illustrate it clearly, you can't have cobbles out of Rainbow sandstone in particular as it is usually available in the slabs form.\n\nSlate reserves in India are found in Rajasthan, Behror, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, and Madhya Pradesh. Deposits in Rajasthan are spread over the districts of Alwar, Ajmer, Bharatpur, Tonk, Sawai Madhopur, Pali, Udaipur, Churu, and Chittorgarh.\n\nFew important names in slate are Jak Black, Silver Shine, Silver grey, Panther, Deoli Green, Peacock, Peacock Multi, Kund Black, Kund Multi and so on. Being to some extent fragile in nature, it is good for interior use only and can be used in even as washboards.\n\nKotastone of Kota district and Yellow Limestone of Jaisalmer district of Rajasthan are the prime limestone occurrences in India. Other deposits include the Shahabad Stone of Gulbarga and the Belgaum districts of Karnataka, Kadappa Stone of Kadapa, Kurnool and the Anantapur & Guntur districts of Andhra Pradesh, Milliolitic Limestone from Saurashtra Region, Gujarat, and 'Yellow Limestone' of Kutch district of Gujarat, amongst others.\n\nAndhra Pradesh and Telangana put together possess 32% of the country's total reserves of limestone. world renowned Narzi limestone is available in kadapa district. Commercial grade limestone deposits are being exploiting from Bethamcherla, Macherla, Neereducherla, Tandur, ((shahabad)), Mudimanikyam of Kurnool, Guntur, Anantapur, Rangareddy, and Nalgonda districts are widely used in our country for panelling, and flooring purposes. Sullavai limestone of Karminagar and Warangal districts, massive limestones of Mudimanikyam, Nalgonda districts. Total India's limestones are estimated about 93,623 million tonnes. Limestones are extensively utilised for manufacturing of cement and also building stones, particularly flooring and roofing .\n\nThere are some other dimensional stones being quarried and used in consumption, in addition to the dimensional stones already detailed above. Laterite bricks are quarried in huge quantities and are utilised as bricks in the construction of houses and for pavements in the states of Orissa, Karnataka, Goa, and in other parts of coastal states. The felspathic sandstone occurring with the coal seams as overburden is also used as building stone. The huge deposits of basalt in the states of Maharashtra, Karnataka, and Gujarat are used as building stones since ancient times. Other quartzitic bands, occurring with phyllites and schists, are also utilised for building purposes. Khondelites from Eastern coast are being used widely in sculptures and as a building material. Felsite from Karnataka is being extensively used as a dimensional stone as well.India also contains many stones which are semiprecious like-zoisite, apophyllite, cavansite, muscotive mica, almandine, etc.\n\nMining in India\n"}
{"id": "519987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=519987", "title": "Synoptic scale meteorology", "text": "Synoptic scale meteorology\n\nThe synoptic scale in meteorology (also known as large scale or cyclonic scale) is a horizontal length scale of the order of 1000 kilometers (about 620 miles) or more. This corresponds to a horizontal scale typical of mid-latitude depressions (e.g. extratropical cyclones). Most high and low-pressure areas seen on weather maps such as surface weather analyses are synoptic-scale systems, driven by the location of Rossby waves in their respective hemisphere. Low-pressure areas and their related frontal zones occur on the leading edge of a trough within the Rossby wave pattern, while surface highs form on the back edge of the trough. Most precipitation areas occur near frontal zones. The word \"synoptic\" is derived from the Greek word (\"\"), meaning \"seen together\".\n\nThe Navier–Stokes equations applied to atmospheric motion can be simplified by scale analysis in the synoptic scale. It can be shown that the main terms in horizontal equations are Coriolis force and pressure gradient terms; therefore, one can use geostrophic approximation. In vertical coordinates, the momentum equation simplifies to the hydrostatic equilibrium equation.\n\nA surface weather analysis is a special type of weather map that provides a view of weather elements over a geographical area at a specified time based on information from ground-based weather stations. Weather maps are created by plotting or tracing the values of relevant quantities such as sea level pressure, temperature, and cloud cover onto a geographical map to help find synoptic scale features such as weather fronts.\n\nThe first weather maps in the 19th century were drawn well after the fact to help devise a theory on storm systems. After the advent of the telegraph, simultaneous surface weather observations became possible for the first time, and beginning in the late 1840s, the Smithsonian Institution became the first organization to draw real-time surface analyses. Use of surface analyses began first in the United States, spreading worldwide during the 1870s. Use of the Norwegian cyclone model for frontal analysis began in the late 1910s across Europe, with its use finally spreading to the United States during World War II.\n\nSurface weather analyses have special symbols which show frontal systems, cloud cover, precipitation, or other important information. For example, an \"H\" represents high pressure, implying good and fair weather. An \"L\" represents low pressure, which frequently accompanies precipitation. Various symbols are used not just for frontal zones and other surface boundaries on weather maps, but also to depict the present weather at various locations on the weather map. Areas of precipitation help determine the frontal type and location. Mesoscale systems and boundaries such as tropical cyclones, outflow boundaries and squall lines also are analyzed on surface weather analyses. Isobars are commonly used to place surface boundaries from the horse latitudes poleward, while streamline analyses are used in the tropics.\n\nAn extratropical cyclone is a synoptic scale low-pressure weather system that has neither tropical nor polar characteristics, being connected with fronts and horizontal gradients in temperature and dew point otherwise known as \"baroclinic zones\".\n\nThe descriptor \"extratropical\" refers to the fact that this type of cyclone generally occurs outside of the tropics, in the middle latitudes of the planet. These systems may also be described as \"mid-latitude cyclones\" due to their area of formation, or \"post-tropical cyclones\" where extratropical transition has occurred, and are often described as \"depressions\" or \"lows\" by weather forecasters and the public. These are the everyday phenomena which along with anti-cyclones, drive the weather over much of the Earth.\n\nAlthough extratropical cyclones are almost always classified as baroclinic since they form along zones of temperature and dewpoint gradient within the westerlies, they can sometimes become barotropic late in their life cycle when the temperature distribution around the cyclone becomes fairly uniform with radius. An extratropical cyclone can transform into a subtropical storm, and from there into a tropical cyclone, if it dwells over warm waters and develops central convection, which warms its core.\n\nHigh-pressure systems are frequently associated with light winds at the surface and subsidence through the lower portion of the troposphere. Subsidence will generally dry out an air mass by adiabatic, or compressional, heating. Thus, high pressure typically brings clear skies. During the day, since no clouds are present to reflect sunlight, there is more incoming shortwave solar radiation and temperatures rise. At night, the absence of clouds means that outgoing longwave radiation (i.e. heat energy from the surface) is not absorbed, giving cooler diurnal low temperatures in all seasons. When surface winds become light, the subsidence produced directly under a high-pressure system can lead to a buildup of particulates in urban areas under the ridge, leading to widespread haze. If the low level relative humidity rises towards 100 percent overnight, fog can form.\n\nStrong, vertically shallow high-pressure systems moving from higher latitudes to lower latitudes in the northern hemisphere are associated with continental arctic air masses. The low, sharp inversion can lead to areas of persistent stratocumulus or stratus cloud, colloquially known as anticyclonic gloom. The type of weather brought about by an anticyclone depends on its origin. For example, extensions of the Azores high pressure may bring about anticyclonic gloom during the winter, as they are warmed at the base and will trap moisture as they move over the warmer oceans. High pressures that build to the north and extend southwards will often bring clear weather. This is due to being cooled at the base (as opposed to warmed) which helps prevent clouds from forming.\n\nOn weather maps, these areas show converging winds (isotachs), also known as confluence, or converging height lines near or above the level of non-divergence, which is near the 500 hPa pressure surface about midway up through the troposphere. High-pressure systems are alternatively referred to as anticyclones. On weather maps, high-pressure centers are associated with the letter H in English, or A in Spanish, because alta is the Spanish word for high, within the isobar with the highest pressure value. On constant pressure upper level charts, it is located within the highest height line contour.\n\nA weather front is a boundary separating two masses of air of different densities, and is the principal cause of meteorological phenomena. In surface weather analyses, fronts are depicted using various colored lines and symbols, depending on the type of front. The air masses separated by a front usually differ in temperature and humidity.\nCold fronts may feature narrow bands of thunderstorms and severe weather, and may on occasion be preceded by squall lines or dry lines. Warm fronts are usually preceded by stratiform precipitation and fog. The weather usually clears quickly after a front's passage. Some fronts produce no precipitation and little cloudiness, although there is invariably a wind shift.\n\nCold fronts and occluded fronts generally move from west to east, while warm fronts move poleward. Because of the greater density of air in their wake, cold fronts and cold occlusions move faster than warm fronts and warm occlusions. Mountains and warm bodies of water can slow the movement of fronts. When a front becomes stationary, and the density contrast across the frontal boundary vanishes, the front can degenerate into a line which separates regions of differing wind velocity, known as a shearline. This is most common over the open ocean.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13575759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13575759", "title": "Tropical Eastern Pacific", "text": "Tropical Eastern Pacific\n\nThe Tropical Eastern Pacific is one of the twelve marine realms that cover the shallow oceans of the world. The Tropical Eastern Pacific extends along the Pacific Coast of the Americas, from the southern tip of the Baja California Peninsula in the north to northern Peru in the south. It also includes a number of islands and island groups, including the Galápagos, Revillagigedo, Cocos and Clipperton.\n\nThe WWF and Nature Conservancy divide the Tropical Eastern Pacific realm into two marine provinces, Tropical East Pacific and Galápagos, which are further subdivided into marine ecoregions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33516", "title": "Wave", "text": "Wave\n\nIn physics, a wave is a disturbance that transfers energy through matter or space, with little or no associated mass transport(Mass transfer). Waves consist of oscillations or vibrations of a physical medium or a field, around relatively fixed locations. From the perspective of mathematics, waves, as functions of time and space, are a class of signals.\n\nThere are two main types of waves: mechanical and electromagnetic. Mechanical waves propagate through a physical matter, whose substance is being deformed. Restoring forces then reverse the deformation. For example, sound waves propagate via air molecules colliding with their neighbours. When the molecules collide, they also bounce away from each other (a restoring force). This keeps the molecules from continuing to travel in the direction of the wave. Electromagnetic waves do not require a medium. Instead, they consist of periodic oscillations of electrical and magnetic fields originally generated by charged particles, and can therefore travel through a vacuum. These types vary in wavelength, and include radio waves, microwaves, infrared radiation, visible light, ultraviolet radiation, X-rays and gamma rays.\n\nWaves are described by a wave equation which sets out how the disturbance proceeds over time. The mathematical form of this equation varies depending on the type of wave. Further, the behavior of particles in quantum mechanics are described by waves. In addition, gravitational waves also travel through space, which are a result of a vibration or movement in gravitational fields.\n\nA wave can be transverse, where a disturbance creates oscillations that are perpendicular to the propagation of energy transfer, or longitudinal: the oscillations are parallel to the direction of energy propagation. While mechanical waves can be both transverse and longitudinal, all electromagnetic waves are transverse in free space.\n\nA single, all-encompassing definition for the term \"wave\" is not straightforward. A vibration can be defined as a \"back-and-forth\" motion around a reference value. However, a vibration is not necessarily a wave. An attempt to define the necessary and sufficient characteristics that qualify a phenomenon as a \"wave\" results in a blurred line.\n\nThe term \"wave\" is often intuitively understood as referring to a transport of spatial disturbances that are generally not accompanied by a motion of medium occupying this space as a whole. In a wave, the energy of a vibration is moving away from the source in the form of a disturbance within the surrounding medium . However, this motion is problematic for a standing wave (for example, a wave on a string), where energy is moving in both directions equally, or for electromagnetic (e.g., light) waves in a vacuum, where the concept of medium does not apply and interaction with a target is the key to wave detection and practical applications. There are water waves on the ocean surface; gamma waves and light waves emitted by the Sun; microwaves used in microwave ovens and in radar equipment; radio waves broadcast by radio stations; and sound waves generated by radio receivers, telephone handsets and living creatures (as voices), to mention only a few wave phenomena.\n\nIt may appear that the description of waves is closely related to their physical origin for each specific instance of a wave process. For example, acoustics is distinguished from optics in that sound waves are related to a mechanical rather than an electromagnetic wave transfer caused by vibration. Concepts such as mass, momentum, inertia, or elasticity, become therefore crucial in describing acoustic (as distinct from optic) wave processes. This difference in origin introduces certain wave characteristics particular to the properties of the medium involved. For example, in the case of air: vortices, radiation pressure, shock waves etc.; in the case of solids: Rayleigh waves, dispersion; and so on.\n\nOther properties, however, although usually described in terms of origin, may be generalized to all waves. For such reasons, wave theory represents a particular branch of physics that is concerned with the properties of wave processes independently of their physical origin. For example, based on the mechanical origin of acoustic waves, a moving disturbance in space–time can exist if and only if the medium involved is neither infinitely stiff nor infinitely pliable. If all the parts making up a medium were rigidly \"bound\", then they would all vibrate as one, with no delay in the transmission of the vibration and therefore no wave motion. On the other hand, if all the parts were independent, then there would not be any transmission of the vibration and again, no wave motion. Although the above statements are meaningless in the case of waves that do not require a medium, they reveal a characteristic that is relevant to all waves regardless of origin: within a wave, the phase of a vibration (that is, its position within the vibration cycle) is different for adjacent points in space because the vibration reaches these points at different times repeatedly .\n\nConsider a traveling transverse wave (which may be a pulse) on a string (the medium). Consider the string to have a single spatial dimension. Consider this wave as traveling\n\n\nThis wave can then be described by the two-dimensional functions\n\nor, more generally, by d'Alembert's formula:\n\nrepresenting two component waveforms formula_8 and formula_10 traveling through the medium in opposite directions. A generalized representation of this wave can be obtained as the partial differential equation\n\nGeneral solutions are based upon Duhamel's principle.\n\nThe form or shape of \"F\" in d'Alembert's formula involves the argument \"x − vt\". Constant values of this argument correspond to constant values of \"F\", and these constant values occur if \"x\" increases at the same rate that \"vt\" increases. That is, the wave shaped like the function \"F\" will move in the positive \"x\"-direction at velocity \"v\" (and \"G\" will propagate at the same speed in the negative \"x\"-direction).\n\nIn the case of a periodic function \"F\" with period \"λ\", that is, \"F\"(\"x + λ\" − \"vt\") = \"F\"(\"x \" − \"vt\"), the periodicity of \"F\" in space means that a snapshot of the wave at a given time \"t\" finds the wave varying periodically in space with period \"λ\" (the wavelength of the wave). In a similar fashion, this periodicity of \"F\" implies a periodicity in time as well: \"F\"(\"x\" − \"v(t + T)\") = \"F\"(\"x \" − \"vt\") provided \"vT\" = \"λ\", so an observation of the wave at a fixed location \"x\" finds the wave undulating periodically in time with period \"T = λ\"/\"v\".\n\nThe amplitude of a wave may be constant (in which case the wave is a \"c.w.\" or \"continuous wave\"), or may be \"modulated\" so as to vary with time and/or position. The outline of the variation in amplitude is called the \"envelope\" of the wave. Mathematically, the modulated wave can be written in the form:\n\nwhere formula_16 is the amplitude envelope of the wave, formula_17 is the \"wavenumber\" and formula_18 is the \"phase\". If the group velocity formula_19 (see below) is wavelength-independent, this equation can be simplified as:\n\nshowing that the envelope moves with the group velocity and retains its shape. Otherwise, in cases where the group velocity varies with wavelength, the pulse shape changes in a manner often described using an \"envelope equation\".\n\nThere are two velocities that are associated with waves, the phase velocity and the group velocity. \n\nPhase velocity is the rate at which the phase of the wave propagates in space: any given phase of the wave (for example, the crest) will appear to travel at the phase velocity. The phase velocity is given in terms of the wavelength (lambda) and period as\n\nGroup velocity is a property of waves that have a defined envelope, measuring propagation through space (i.e. phase velocity) of the overall shape of the waves' amplitudes—modulation or envelope of the wave.\n\nMathematically, the most basic wave is the (spatially) one-dimensional sine wave (also called \"harmonic wave\" or \"sinusoid\") with an amplitude formula_4 described by the equation:\n\nwhere\n\nThe units of the amplitude depend on the type of wave. Transverse mechanical waves (e.g., a wave on a string) have an amplitude expressed as a distance (e.g., meters), longitudinal mechanical waves (e.g., sound waves) use units of pressure (e.g., pascals), and electromagnetic waves (a form of transverse vacuum wave) express the amplitude in terms of its electric field (e.g., volts/meter).\n\nThe wavelength formula_30 is the distance between two sequential crests or troughs (or other equivalent points), generally is measured in meters. A wavenumber formula_17, the spatial frequency of the wave in radians per unit distance (typically per meter), can be associated with the wavelength by the relation\n\nThe period formula_33 is the time for one complete cycle of an oscillation of a wave. The frequency formula_34 is the number of periods per unit time (per second) and is typically measured in hertz denoted as Hz. These are related by:\n\nIn other words, the frequency and period of a wave are reciprocals.\n\nThe angular frequency formula_28 represents the frequency in radians per second. It is related to the frequency or period by\n\nThe wavelength formula_30 of a sinusoidal waveform traveling at constant speed formula_5 is given by:\n\nwhere formula_5 is called the phase speed (magnitude of the phase velocity) of the wave and formula_34 is the wave's frequency.\n\nWavelength can be a useful concept even if the wave is not periodic in space. For example, in an ocean wave approaching shore, the incoming wave undulates with a varying \"local\" wavelength that depends in part on the depth of the sea floor compared to the wave height. The analysis of the wave can be based upon comparison of the local wavelength with the local water depth.\n\nAlthough arbitrary wave shapes will propagate unchanged in lossless linear time-invariant systems, in the presence of dispersion the sine wave is the unique shape that will propagate unchanged but for phase and amplitude, making it easy to analyze. Due to the Kramers–Kronig relations, a linear medium with dispersion also exhibits loss, so the sine wave propagating in a dispersive medium is attenuated in certain frequency ranges that depend upon the medium.\nThe sine function is periodic, so the sine wave or sinusoid has a wavelength in space and a period in time.\n\nThe sinusoid is defined for all times and distances, whereas in physical situations we usually deal with waves that exist for a limited span in space and duration in time. An arbitrary wave shape can be decomposed into an infinite set of sinusoidal waves by the use of Fourier analysis. As a result, the simple case of a single sinusoidal wave can be applied to more general cases. In particular, many media are linear, or nearly so, so the calculation of arbitrary wave behavior can be found by adding up responses to individual sinusoidal waves using the superposition principle to find the solution for a general waveform. When a medium is nonlinear, the response to complex waves cannot be determined from a sine-wave decomposition.\n\nA standing wave, also known as a \"stationary wave\", is a wave that remains in a constant position. This phenomenon can occur because the medium is moving in the opposite direction to the wave, or it can arise in a stationary medium as a result of interference between two waves traveling in opposite directions.\n\nThe \"sum\" of two counter-propagating waves (of equal amplitude and frequency) creates a \"standing wave\". Standing waves commonly arise when a boundary blocks further propagation of the wave, thus causing wave reflection, and therefore introducing a counter-propagating wave. For example, when a violin string is displaced, transverse waves propagate out to where the string is held in place at the bridge and the nut, where the waves are reflected back. At the bridge and nut, the two opposed waves are in antiphase and cancel each other, producing a node. Halfway between two nodes there is an antinode, where the two counter-propagating waves \"enhance\" each other maximally. There is no net propagation of energy over time.\n<br>\n\nWaves exhibit common behaviors under a number of standard situations, e. g.\n\nWaves normally move in a straight line (i.e. rectilinearly) through a \"transmission medium\". Such media can be classified into one or more of the following categories:\n\nAbsorption of waves means, if a kind of wave strikes a matter, it will be absorbed by the matter. When a wave with that same natural frequency impinges upon an atom, then the electrons of that atom will be set into vibrational motion. If a wave of a given frequency strikes a material with electrons having the same vibrational frequencies, then those electrons will absorb the energy of the wave and transform it into vibrational motion.\n\nWhen a wave strikes a reflective surface, it changes direction, such that the angle made by the incident wave and line normal to the surface equals the angle made by the reflected wave and the same normal line.\n\nRefraction is the phenomenon of a wave changing its speed. Mathematically, this means that the size of the phase velocity changes. Typically, refraction occurs when a wave passes from one medium into another. The amount by which a wave is refracted by a material is given by the refractive index of the material. The directions of incidence and refraction are related to the refractive indices of the two materials by Snell's law.\n\nA wave exhibits diffraction when it encounters an obstacle that bends the wave or when it spreads after emerging from an opening. Diffraction effects are more pronounced when the size of the obstacle or opening is comparable to the wavelength of the wave.\n\nWaves that encounter each other combine through superposition to create a new wave called an interference pattern. Important interference patterns occur for waves that are in phase.\n\nThe phenomenon of polarization arises when wave motion can occur simultaneously in two orthogonal directions. Transverse waves can be polarized, for instance. When polarization is used as a descriptor without qualification, it usually refers to the special, simple case of linear polarization. A transverse wave is linearly polarized if it oscillates in only one direction or plane. In the case of linear polarization, it is often useful to add the relative orientation of that plane, perpendicular to the direction of travel, in which the oscillation occurs, such as \"horizontal\" for instance, if the plane of polarization is parallel to the ground. Electromagnetic waves propagating in free space, for instance, are transverse; they can be polarized by the use of a polarizing filter.\n\nLongitudinal waves, such as sound waves, do not exhibit polarization. For these waves there is only one direction of oscillation, that is, along the direction of travel.\n\nA wave undergoes dispersion when either the phase velocity or the group velocity depends on the wave frequency.\nDispersion is most easily seen by letting white light pass through a prism, the result of which is to produce the spectrum of colours of the rainbow. Isaac Newton performed experiments with light and prisms, presenting his findings in the \"Opticks\" (1704) that white light consists of several colours and that these colours cannot be decomposed any further.\n\nThe speed of a transverse wave traveling along a vibrating string (\" v \") is directly proportional to the square root of the tension of the string (\" T \") over the linear mass density (\" μ \"):\n\nwhere the linear density \"μ\" is the mass per unit length of the string.\n\nAcoustic or sound waves travel at speed given by\n\nor the square root of the adiabatic bulk modulus divided by the ambient fluid density (see speed of sound).\n\n\nSeismic waves are waves of energy that travel through the Earth's layers, and are a result of earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, magma movement, large landslides and large man-made explosions that give out low-frequency acoustic energy.\n\nA shock wave is a type of propagating disturbance. When a wave moves faster than the local speed of sound in a fluid, it is a shock wave. Like an ordinary wave, a shock wave carries energy and can propagate through a medium; however, it is characterized by an abrupt, nearly discontinuous change in pressure, temperature and density of the medium. \n\n\n\nAn electromagnetic wave consists of two waves that are oscillations of the electric and magnetic fields. An electromagnetic wave travels in a direction that is at right angles to the oscillation direction of both fields. In the 19th century, James Clerk Maxwell showed that, in vacuum, the electric and magnetic fields satisfy the wave equation both with speed equal to that of the speed of light. From this emerged the idea that light is an electromagnetic wave. Electromagnetic waves can have different frequencies (and thus wavelengths), giving rise to various types of radiation such as radio waves, microwaves, infrared, visible light, ultraviolet, X-rays, and Gamma rays.\n\nThe Schrödinger equation describes the wave-like behavior of particles in quantum mechanics. Solutions of this equation are wave functions which can be used to describe the probability density of a particle.\n\nThe Dirac equation is a relativistic wave equation detailing electromagnetic interactions. Dirac waves accounted for the fine details of the hydrogen spectrum in a completely rigorous way. The wave equation also implied the existence of a new form of matter, antimatter, previously unsuspected and unobserved and which was experimentally confirmed. In the context of quantum field theory, the Dirac equation is reinterpreted to describe quantum fields corresponding to spin-½ particles.\n\nLouis de Broglie postulated that all particles with momentum have a wavelength\n\nwhere \"h\" is Planck's constant, and \"p\" is the magnitude of the momentum of the particle. This hypothesis was at the basis of quantum mechanics. Nowadays, this wavelength is called the de Broglie wavelength. For example, the electrons in a CRT display have a de Broglie wavelength of about 10 m.\n\nA wave representing such a particle traveling in the \"k\"-direction is expressed by the wave function as follows:\n\nwhere the wavelength is determined by the wave vector k as:\n\nand the momentum by:\n\nHowever, a wave like this with definite wavelength is not localized in space, and so cannot represent a particle localized in space. To localize a particle, de Broglie proposed a superposition of different wavelengths ranging around a central value in a wave packet, a waveform often used in quantum mechanics to describe the wave function of a particle. In a wave packet, the wavelength of the particle is not precise, and the local wavelength deviates on either side of the main wavelength value.\n\nIn representing the wave function of a localized particle, the wave packet is often taken to have a Gaussian shape and is called a \"Gaussian wave packet\". Gaussian wave packets also are used to analyze water waves.\n\nFor example, a Gaussian wavefunction ψ might take the form:\n\nat some initial time \"t\" = 0, where the central wavelength is related to the central wave vector \"k\" as λ = 2π / \"k\". It is well known from the theory of Fourier analysis, or from the Heisenberg uncertainty principle (in the case of quantum mechanics) that a narrow range of wavelengths is necessary to produce a localized wave packet, and the more localized the envelope, the larger the spread in required wavelengths. The Fourier transform of a Gaussian is itself a Gaussian. Given the Gaussian:\n\nthe Fourier transform is:\n\nThe Gaussian in space therefore is made up of waves:\n\nthat is, a number of waves of wavelengths λ such that \"k\"λ = 2 π.\n\nThe parameter σ decides the spatial spread of the Gaussian along the \"x\"-axis, while the Fourier transform shows a spread in wave vector \"k\" determined by 1/σ. That is, the smaller the extent in space, the larger the extent in \"k\", and hence in λ = 2π/\"k\".\n\nGravity waves are waves generated in a fluid medium or at the interface between two media when the force of gravity or buoyancy tries to restore equilibrium. A ripple on a pond is one example.\n\nGravitational waves also travel through space. The first observation of gravitational waves was announced on 11 February 2016.\nGravitational waves are disturbances in the curvature of spacetime, predicted by Einstein's theory of general relativity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5534071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5534071", "title": "Whangee", "text": "Whangee\n\nWhangee refers to any of over forty Asian grasses of the genus \"Phyllostachys\", a genus of bamboos. They are a hardy evergreen plant from Japan, China and the Himalayas whose woody stems are sometimes used to make canes and umbrella handles. The word derives from the Chinese (Mandarin) huáng lí. It can also refer to a cane made from whangee.\n\nJohn Steed, the dapper secret agent from television's \"The Avengers\", was known for carrying an umbrella with a whangee handle. Charlie Chaplin's character, The Little Tramp, is famously known for his whangee cane.\n\nThe firm of Dunhill created custom smoking pipes and cigarette holders out of whangee, lacquering the surface of the plant stems and adding a black plastic or Bakelite mouthpiece. Terry-Thomas, the well-known British comedic actor, habitually used an 8-inch (200 mm)-long custom black lacquered whangee cigarette holder. It became his trademark and is seen in most of his publicity photographs. His collection included a valuable holder that had a spiral of diamonds set in gold over the black lacquered whangee. It was stolen from his dressing room, and was recovered in a damaged state.\n\nBertie Wooster in \"The Inimitable Jeeves\" says, \"Then bring me my whangee, my yellowest shoes, and the old green Homburg. I'm going into the park to do pastoral dances.\" The author, P.G. Wodehouse, does not elaborate on the meaning of whangee, assuming that any of his audience would immediately know to what it referred. (The Inimitable Jeeves, ch.1)\n"}
{"id": "5114327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5114327", "title": "Xylotheque", "text": "Xylotheque\n\nA xylotheque or xylothek (from the Greek \"xylon\" for \"wood\" and \"theque\" meaning \"repository\") is special form of herbarium that consists of a collection of authenticated wood specimens. It is also known as a xylarium (from the Greek \"xylon\" for \"wood\" and Latin \"arium\" meaning \"separate place\"). Traditionally, xylotheque specimens were in the form of book-shaped volumes, each made of a particular kind of wood and holding samples of the different parts of the corresponding plant. While the terms are often used interchangeably, some use \"xylotheque\" to refer to these older collections of wooden 'books' and \"xylarium\" for modern collections in which some or all of the specimens are in simpler shapes, such as blocks or plaques with information engraved on their surfaces. Many countries have at least one xylotheque with native flora, and some also house flora from other parts of the world. They are valuable to specialists in forestry, botany, conservation, forensics, art restoration, paleontology, archaeology, and other fields.\n\nXylotheques date back to the later 17th century, when wood specimens began to appear in cabinets of curiosity. Over time, they grew larger and more systematic, with hundreds of individual volumes in a single collection. The oldest extant collection was established in 1823 at the University of Leningrad, and by the middle of the century they had been established in many European countries. Australia now houses 12 xylaria holding 11% of the world's wood specimens, while the Oxford Forestry Institute's xylarium holds about 13%.\n\nIn older xylotheques, the wooden volumes were typically made out of the same wood as the specimens inside and sometimes decorated with tree bark and associated lichens and mosses. Each volume housed seeds, flowers, twigs, and leaves from the corresponding tree or bush, along with a written description hidden in a small compartment set into the inner spine. An alternative form of xylotheque found in Japan and elsewhere featured paintings of the plant parts rather than actual field specimens. \n\nEven a modest collection of wood samples has value, as each of its samples has a particular history. Xylotheques provide comparison samples for xylotomy, art historical studies, and scientific studies of the physical and mechanical properties of wood, such as durability and preservation. Xylotheques are also useful for anyone who needs to make a morphological-visual analysis of wood.\n\nThe xylotheque with the largest number of samples is the Samuel James Record Collection in the United States, which holds 98,000 samples. Formerly housed at the Forestry School of Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut, it was transferred to the U.S. Forest Service's Forest Products Laboratory in 1969. The second largest xylotheque belongs to the Royal Museum of Central Africa in Tervuren, Belgium, with 57,000 samples. The Thünen Institute of Wood Research in Hamburg has more than 37,000 samples.\n\nFor documenta 13 in 2012, American artist Mark Dion created a new hexagonal display chamber for the Schildbach Xylotheque at the Natural History Museum in Kassel, Germany. As part of the project, he created six new volumes made of wood from each of the continents (excluding Antarctica). \n\n\n"}
{"id": "576320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=576320", "title": "Yu the Great", "text": "Yu the Great\n\nYu the Great (c. 2200 – 2100 BC) was a legendary ruler in ancient China famed for his introduction of flood control, inaugurating dynastic rule in China by establishing the Xia Dynasty, and for his upright moral character.\n\nThe dates proposed for Yu's reign predate the oldest known written records in China, the oracle bones of the late Shang dynasty, by nearly a millennium. No inscriptions on artifacts from the proposed era of Yu, nor the later oracle bones, make any mention of Yu; he does not appear in inscriptions until vessels dating to the Western Zhou period (c. 1045–771 BC). The lack of anything remotely close to contemporary documentary evidence has led to some controversy over the historicity of Yu. Proponents of the historicity of Yu theorise that stories about his life and reign were transmitted orally in various areas of China until they were recorded in the Zhou dynasty, while opponents believe the figure existed in legend in a different form - as a god or mythical animal - in the Xia dynasty, and morphed into a human figure by the start of the Zhou dynasty. Many of the stories about Yu were collected in Sima Qian's famous \"Records of the Grand Historian\". Yu and other \"sage-kings\" of Ancient China were lauded for their virtues and morals by Confucius and other Chinese teachers.\n\nYu is one of the few Chinese rulers posthumously honored with the epithet \"the Great\".\n\nAccording to several ancient Chinese records, Yu was the 8th great-grandson of the Yellow Emperor: Yu's father, Gun, was the 5th grandson of Emperor Zhuanxu; Zhuanxu's father, Changyi, was the second son of the Yellow Emperor. Yu was said to have been born at Mount Wen (), in modern-day Beichuan County, Sichuan Province, though there are debates as to whether he was born in Shifang instead. Yu's mother was of the Youxin clan named either Nüzhi () or Nüxi ().\n\nWhen Yu was a child, his father Gun moved the people east toward the Central Plain. King Yao enfeoffed Gun as lord of Chong, usually identified as the middle peak of Mount Song. Yu is thus believed to have grown up on the slopes of Mount Song, just south of the Yellow River. He later married a woman from Mount Tu () who is generally referred to as Tushan-shi (). They had a son named Qi, a name literally meaning \"revelation\".\n\nThe location of Mount Tu has always been disputed. The two most probable locations are Mount Tu in Anhui Province and the Tu Peak of the Southern Mountain in Chongqing Municipality.\n\nDuring the reign of king Yao, the Chinese heartland was frequently plagued by floods that prevented further economic and social development. Yu's father, Gun, was tasked with devising a system to control the flooding. He spent more than nine years building a series of dikes and dams along the riverbanks, but all of this was ineffective, despite (or because of) the great number and size of these dikes and the use of a special self-expanding soil. As an adult, Yu continued his father's work and made a careful study of the river systems in an attempt to learn why his father's great efforts had failed.\n\nCollaborating with Houji, a semi-mythical agricultural master about whom little is concretely known, Yu successfully devised a system of flood controls that were crucial in establishing the prosperity of the Chinese heartland. Instead of directly damming the rivers' flow, Yu made a system of irrigation canals which relieved floodwater into fields, as well as spending great effort dredging the riverbeds. Yu is said to have eaten and slept with the common workers and spent most of his time personally assisting the work of dredging the silty beds of the rivers for the thirteen years the projects took to complete. The dredging and irrigation were successful, and allowed ancient Chinese culture to flourish along the Yellow River, Wei River, and other waterways of the Chinese heartland. The project earned Yu renown throughout Chinese history, and is referred to in Chinese history as \"Great Yu Controls the Waters\" (). In particular, Mount Longmen along the Yellow River had a very narrow channel which blocked water from flowing freely east toward the ocean. Yu is said to have brought a large number of workers to open up this channel, which has been known ever since as \"Yu's Gateway\" ().\n\nIn a mythical version of this story, presented in Wang Jia's 4th-century AD work \"Shi Yi Ji\", Yu is assisted in his work by a yellow dragon and a black turtle (not necessarily related to the Black Tortoise of Chinese mythology). Another local myth says that Yu created the Sanmenxia (Sanxia is the one on Yangzi River, Sanmenxia is on Yellow River) \"Three Passes Gorge\" of the Yangzi River by cutting a mountain ridge with a divine battle-axe to control flooding.\n\nTraditional stories say that Yu sacrificed a great deal of his body to control the floods. For example, his hands were said to be thickly callused, and his feet were completely covered with callus. In one common story, Yu had only been married four days when he was given the task of fighting the flood. He said goodbye to his wife, saying that he did not know when he would return. During the thirteen years of flooding, he passed by his own family's doorstep three times, but each time he did not return inside his own home. The first time he passed, he heard that his wife was in labor. The second time he passed by, his son could already call out to his father. His family urged him to return home, but he said it was impossible as the flood was still going on. The third time Yu was passing by, his son was older than ten years old. Each time, Yu refused to go in the door, saying that as the flood was rendering countless number of people homeless, he could not rest.\n\nYu supposedly killed Gong Gong's minister Xiangliu, a nine-headed snake monster.\n\nKing Shun, who reigned after Yao, was so impressed by Yu's engineering work and diligence that he passed the throne to Yu instead of to his own son. Yu is said to have initially declined the throne, but was so popular with other local lords and chiefs that he agreed to become the new emperor, at the age of fifty-three. He established a capital at Anyi (), the ruins of which are in modern Xia County in southern Shanxi Province, and founded what would be called the Xia Dynasty, traditionally considered China's first dynasty.\n\nYu's flood control work is said to have made him intimately familiar with all regions of what was then Han Chinese territory. According to his \"Yu Gong\" treatise in the \"Book of Documents\", Yu divided the Chinese \"world\" into nine \"zhou\" or provinces. These were Jizhou (冀州), Yanzhou (兗州), Qingzhou (青州), Xuzhou (徐州), Yangzhou (揚州), Jingzhou (荊州), Yuzhou (豫州), Liangzhou (梁州) and Yongzhou (雍州).\n\nAccording to the Rites of Zhou there was no Xuzhou or Liangzhou, instead there were Youzhou (幽州) and Bingzhou (并州), but according to the \"Erya\" there was no Qingzhou or Liangzhou, instead there was Youzhou (幽州) and Yingzhou (營州). Either way there were nine divisions. Once he had received bronze from these nine territories, he created ding vessels called the Nine Tripod Cauldrons. Yu then established his capital at Yang City (陽城). According to the Bamboo Annals, Yu killed one of the northern leaders, Fangfeng (防風) to reinforce his hold on the throne.\n\nAccording to the \"Bamboo Annals\", Yu ruled the Xia Dynasty for forty-five years and, according to \"Yue Jueshu\" (越絕書), he died from an illness. It is said that he died at Mount Kuaiji, south of present-day Shaoxing, while on a hunting tour to the eastern frontier of his empire, and was buried there. The Yu mausoleum (大禹陵) known today was first built in the 6th century AD (Southern and Northern Dynasties period) in his honor. It is located four kilometers southeast of Shaoxing city. Most of the structure was rebuilt many times in later periods. The three main parts of the mausoleum are the Yu tomb (禹陵), temple (禹廟) and memorial (禹祠). In many statues he is seen carrying an ancient hoe (耒耜). A number of emperors in imperial times travelled there to perform ceremonies in his honor, notably Qin Shi Huang.\n\nBecause no documentary evidence about Yu survives, there is some controversy as to the historicity of the figure. No inscriptions on artifacts dated to the supposed era of Yu, or the later oracle bones, contain any mention of Yu. The first archeological evidence of Yu comes from vessels made about a thousand years after his supposed death, during the Western Zhou dynasty.\n\nThe Doubting Antiquity School of early 20th-century historians, for example, theorised that Yu was not a person in the earliest legends, but a god or mythical animal, who was connected with water and possibly with the mythical Dragon Kings and their control over water. According to this theory, Yu (as god or animal) was represented on ceremonial bronzeware by the early Xia people, and by the start of the Zhou Dynasty, the legendary figure had morphed into the first man, who could control water, and it was only during the Zhou Dynasty that the legendary figures that now precede Yu were added to the orthodox legendary lineage. According to the Chinese legend Yu the Great was a man-god.\n\nArchaeological evidence of a large outburst flood on the Yellow River has been dated to about 1920 BCE. This coincides with new cultures all along the Yellow River. The water control problems after the initial flooding could plausibly have lasted for some twenty years. Wu et al. suggest that this supports the idea that the stories of Yu the Great may have originated from a historical person.\n\nYu was long regarded as an ideal ruler and kind of philosopher-king by the ancient Chinese. Beichuan, Wenchuan, and Dujiangyan in Sichuan have all made claims to be his birthplace.\n\nOwing to his involvement in China's mythical Great Flood, Yu also came to be regarded as a water deity in Taoism and the Chinese folk religions. He is the head of the Five Kings of the Water Immortals honored in shrines in Mazu temples as protectors of ships in transit.\n\n"}
