{"id": "34735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34735", "title": "7th century", "text": "7th century\n\nThe 7th century is the period from 601 to 700 in accordance with the Julian calendar in the Common Era. The Muslim conquests began with the unification of Arabia by Muhammad starting in 622. After Muhammad's death in 632, Islam expanded beyond the Arabian Peninsula under the Rashidun Caliphate (632–661) and the Umayyad Caliphate (661–750). The Islamic conquest of Persia in the 7th century led to the downfall of the Sassanid Empire. Also conquered during the 7th century were Syria, Palestine, Armenia, Egypt, and North Africa.\n\nThe Byzantine Empire continued suffering setbacks during the rapid expansion of the Muslim Empire.\n\nIn the Iberian Peninsula, the 7th century was the \"Siglo de Concilios\", that is, century of councils, referring to the Councils of Toledo.\n\nHarsha united Northern India, which had reverted to small republics and states after the fall of the Gupta Empire in the 6th century.\n\nIn China, the Sui dynasty was replaced by the Tang dynasty, which set up its military bases from Korea to Central Asia, and was next to the Arabian later. China began to reach its height. Silla allied itself with the Tang Dynasty, subjugating Baekje and defeating Goguryeo to unite the Korean Peninsula under one ruler. The Asuka period persisted in Japan throughout the 7th century.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1703145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1703145", "title": "A Fictional Guide to Scotland", "text": "A Fictional Guide to Scotland\n\nA Fictional Guide to Scotland is a collection of short stories and one poem from 17 writers who were either Scottish by birth or lived in Scotland at the time of submission. The pieces which made it into the book were selected through an anonymous submissions process with an OpenInk editor Elizabeth Reeder and guest editors, Meaghan Delahunt and Suhayl Saadi, choosing the final pieces.\n\nOpenInk was a group of Glasgow-based writers who came together out of a desire to create publications which offered writers and readers a unique experience. The OpenInk Editorial board was entirely voluntary. One of the editors was a full-time writer working both on her own writing and as a writer in residence in Glasgow. The remaining editors worked by day in a range of professions and wrote in their spare time.\n\nThe publication of the book was supported by a grant from Glasgow City Council. In addition, the editors raised a substantial amount of the money required for the project through sponsorship from friends and family.\n\nIn addition to the book, OpenInk ran a reading tour entitled \"A Fictional Guide to Scotland\". This reading tour visited places as far and wide as Wigtown, Ullapool, Inverness, Edinburgh, Stirling, Lanark and Glasgow and was supported by the Scottish Arts Council.\n\n\"A Fictional Guide to Scotland\" (2003, OpenInk, Glasgow) \n"}
{"id": "36838495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36838495", "title": "Adriano Valerini", "text": "Adriano Valerini\n\nAdriano Valerini (active circa 1560-died 1590s) was an Italian actor of Commedia dell'arte, active in Northern Italy.\n\nHe was born in Verona, and could read Latin and Greek. He was the head of a company of actors. In Milan, he fell under the censorship of Charles Borromeo. He has published a tragic play \"l'Afrodite\", nearly one hundred madrigals, a funeral oration for the fellow comic and possible mistress Vincenza Armani, and the play \"Belleze di Verona\".\n"}
{"id": "242097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=242097", "title": "Anti-establishment", "text": "Anti-establishment\n\nAn anti-establishment view or belief is one which stands in opposition to the conventional social, political, and economic principles of a society. The term was first used in the modern sense in 1958, by the British magazine \"New Statesman\" to refer to its political and social agenda. Antiestablishmentarianism (or anti-establishmentarianism) is an expression for such a political philosophy.\n\nThe Pirate Party of Iceland has a movement of anti-establishment.\n\nThe Five Star Movement (M5S) and the League are considered anti-establishment parties. The M5S led by Luigi Di Maio won the most votes in the 2018 Italian general election and formed the largest groups in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate. The center-right electoral alliance led by League's secretary Matteo Salvini won a pluralities of seats in both houses. The M5S and the League agreed to form a government coalition, which resulted in Giuseppe Conte being appointed Prime Minister and forming the 65th government of the Italian Republic.\n\nPower to the People, a left-wing to far-left electoral alliance comprising several parties, organizations, associations, committees and social centers, is also an anti-establishment movement. In its manifesto, membership to Power to the People is described as \"social and political, anti-liberist and anti-capitalist, communist, socialist, environmentalist, feminist, secular, pacifist, libertarian and southernist left-wing\", whose goal as coalition is \"to create real democracy, through daily practices, self-governance experiments, socialisation of knowing and popular participation\". In the 2018 general election, they obtained 370,320 votes for the Chamber of Deputies (1.13%) and 319,094 votes for the Senate (1.05%), without electing any representatives.\n\nIn the UK anti-establishment figures and groups are seen as those who argue or act against the ruling class. Having an established church, in England, a British monarchy, an aristocracy, and an unelected upper house in Parliament made up in part by hereditary nobles, the UK has a clearly definable Establishment against which anti-establishment figures can be contrasted. In particular, satirical humour is commonly used to undermine the deference shown by the majority of the population towards those who govern them. Examples of British anti-establishment satire include much of the humour of Peter Cook and Ben Elton; novels such as Rumpole of the Bailey; magazines such as Private Eye; and television programmes like Spitting Image, Rumpole of the Bailey, That Was The Week That Was, and The Prisoner (see also the satire boom of the 1960s). Anti-establishment themes also can be seen in the novels of writers such as Will Self.\n\nHowever, by operating through the arts and media, the line between politics and culture is blurred, so that pigeonholing figures such as Banksy as either anti-establishment or counter-culture figures can be difficult. The tabloid newspapers such as \"The Sun\", are less subtle, and commonly report on the sex-lives of the Royals simply because it sells newspapers, but in the process have been described as having anti-establishment views that have weakened traditional institutions. On the other hand, as time passes, anti-establishment figures sometimes end up becoming part of the Establishment, as Mick Jagger, the Rolling Stones frontman, became a Knight in 2003, or when The Who frontman Roger Daltrey was made a Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 2005 in recognition of both his music and his work for charity.\n\nThe People's Party of Canada is seen as anti-establishment political partyBernier was accused by prominent Conservative politicians such as former prime ministers Stephen Harper and Brian Mulroney of trying to divide the political right. Bernier responded to Power and Politics that he wanted to focus on the disaffected voters stating that \"there is 20 per cent of the population who do not even bother to vote that his party will debate discussions that \"the leadership and the caucus\" did not want to have when he was a party member.\nIndividuals who were anti-establishment often spoke of \"fighting the man\", \"selling out to the Establishment\", and \"tearing down the Establishment.\" Many well renowned activists and activist groups innovated great changes to society by standing up to \"the Establishment\", including the MC5, Symbionese Liberation Army, Black Panther Party, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Malcolm X, Malvina Reynolds, Dead Kennedys, Howard Zinn, Noam Chomsky, Bernie Sanders, Public Enemy, System of a Down, K-Rino, Immortal Technique, Black Flag, Rage Against the Machine, Terminator X, Gil-Scott Heron, dead prez, Timothy Leary, Paris, Stone Cold Steve Austin, and Lupe Fiasco among others.\n\nThe \"Establishment\" to these, and these anti-establishment activists was not simply the people of the older generation. Dictionary.com defines the establishment as \"the existing power structure in society; the dominant groups in society and their customs or institutions; institutional authority\", Merriam-Webster defines the words as \"a group of social, economic, and political leaders who form a ruling class\" and The Free Dictionary defines it as \"A group of people holding most of the power and influence in a government or society.\" Social critic and \"people's\" historian Howard Zinn defines the establishment as \"Republicans, Democrats, newspapers [and] television\" in his book, \"A People's History of the United States.\" Later Zinn calls out the \"huge military establishment\" which one could assume is part of his definition of the \"Establishment.\" In a chapter of the book that expresses Zinn's political theory for the future he defines \"the Establishment [as] that uneasy club of business executives, generals, and politicos.\"\n\nLater in Zinn's book is a reprinted quote from Samuel Huntington, who was a Harvard University political science professor and White House political consultant, that describes the establishment and the coalition a president should establish upon being elected:\n\nThe anti-establishment began in the 1940s and continued through the 1950s. \n\nMany World War II veterans, who had seen horrors and inhumanities, began to question every aspect of life, including its meaning. Urged to return to \"normal lives\" and plagued by post traumatic stress disorder (discussing it was \"not manly\"), many veterans found suburbia cloying and empty.\n\nThe Hells Angels were originally composed of WWII veterans feeling rebellious: the name came from WWII fighting units. The image of Marlon Brando as a motorcycle rebel in \"The Wild One\" and James Dean as a \"Rebel Without a Cause\" horrified some Americans and electrified others. Some veterans, who founded the Beat Movement, were denigrated as \"Beatniks\" and accused of being \"downbeat\" on everything. Lawrence Ferlinghetti wrote a Beat autobiography that cited his wartime service.\n\nMany people craved angry \"true\" commentary such as Lenny Bruce's acid-tongued comedy, or simply a desire for more personal freedom, even \"vices\". Playboy magazine, with its famous nudes, was the first skin mag sold alongside national magazines, and caused a scandal and backlash.\n\nMany women also harbored a deep resentment. During the war years, they had been encouraged to assume men's roles in industry, both white collar and blue collar. Rosie the Riveter was a national icon. But after the war, women were forced to give up their jobs and become homemakers.\n\nCitizens had also begun to question authority, especially after the Gary Powers U-2 Incident, wherein President Eisenhower repeatedly assured people the USA was not spying on Russia, then was caught in a blatant lie. This general dissatisfaction was popularized by Peggy Lee's laconic pop song \"Is That All There Is?\", but remained unspoken and unfocused. It was not until the Baby Boomers came along in huge numbers that protest became organized (or disorganized in the case of the hippies), who were named by the Beats as \"little hipsters\".\n\n\"Anti-establishment\" became a buzzword of the tumultuous 1960s. Young people raised in comparative luxury saw many wrongs perpetuated by society and began to question \"the Establishment\". Contentious issues included the ongoing Vietnam War with no clear goal or end point, the constant military build-up and diversion of funds for the Cold War, perpetual widespread poverty being ignored, money-wasting boondoggles like pork barrel projects and the Space Race, festering race issues, a stultifying education system, repressive laws and harsh sentences for casual drug use, and a general malaise among the older generation. On the other side, \"Middle America\" often regarded questions as accusations, and saw the younger generation as spoiled, drugged-out, sex-crazed, unambitious slackers.\n\nAnti-establishment debates were common because they touched on everyday aspects of life. Even innocent questions could escalate into angry diatribes. For example, \"Why do we spend millions on a foreign war and a space program when our schools are falling apart?\" would be answered with \"We need to keep our military strong and ready to stop the Communists from taking over the world.\" As in any debate, there were valid and unsupported arguments on both sides. \"Make love not war\" invoked \"America, love it or leave it.\"\nAs the 1960s simmered, the anti-Establishment adopted conventions in opposition to the Establishment. T-shirts and blue jeans became the uniform of the young because their parents wore collar shirts and slacks. Drug use, with its illegal panache, was favored over the legal consumption of alcohol. Promoting peace and love was the antidote to promulgating hatred and war. Living in genteel poverty was more \"honest\" than amassing a nest egg and a house in the suburbs. Rock 'n roll was played loudly over easy listening. Dodging the draft was passive resistance to traditional military service. Dancing was free-style, not learned in a ballroom. Over time, anti-establishment messages crept into popular culture: songs, fashion, movies, lifestyle choices, television.\n\nThe emphasis on freedom allowed previously hushed conversations about sex, politics, or religion to be openly discussed. A wave of radical liberation movements for minority groups came out of the 1960s, including second-wave feminism; Black Power, Red Power, and the Chicano Movement; and gay liberation. These movements differed from previous efforts to improve minority rights by their opposition to respectability politics and militant tone. Programs were put in place to deal with inequities: Equal Opportunity Employment, the Head Start Program, enforcement of the Civil Rights Act, busing, and others. But the widespread dissemination of new ideas also sparked a backlash and resurgence in conservative religions, new segregated private schools, anti-gay and anti-abortion legislation, and other reversals. Extremists tended to be heard more because they made good copy for newspapers and television. In many ways, the angry debates of the 1960s led to modern right-wing talk radio and coalitions for \"traditional family values\".\n\nAs the 1960s passed, society had changed to the point that the definition of the Establishment had blurred, and the term \"anti-establishment\" seemed to fall out of use.\n\nHoward Zinn, in his bestseller titled \"A People's History of the United States\" mentions the concept of \"establishment\" several times in the book. In reference to the 1896 election and McKinley's victory, when talking about socialism in the early 20th century, a major WWI general strike in 1919, when writing about the aftermath of WWII, in the talk about the repression of a communist party organizer, in discussion of the 1963 March on Washington led by Martin Luther King and others, when writing about how even when black leaders were elected, they couldn't overcome the establishment and in reference to opposition in the Vietnam war, the establishment before and after the Watergate Scandal, the establishment from Jimmy Carter's Administration to George H.W.'s administration, the Iran-Contra Affair and the establishment, the maintaining of the military establishment even after the Cold War ended, the Vietnam Syndrome that leads to anti-establishment thought, and in a discussion of the 2000 election.\n\nIn India, the 1960s saw emergence of a group of writers who called themselves Hungryalists. They were the first anti-establishment and counter culture writers in Bengal whose dissenting voice drew attention of the government and court cases were filed against them. The main anti-establishment voices in Bengali literature have been Malay Roy Choudhury, Samir Roychoudhury, Subimal Basak and Tridib Mitra.\n\nIn 2011, with the rise of anti-austerity protests, the Arab Spring, online activism like Anonymous and the advent of the Occupy protests targeting the power of high finance and fighting for \"the 99%,\" anti-establishment thought has reappeared. BBC News commented in one article that \"The sinister Guy Fawkes mask made famous by the film \"V for Vendetta\" has become an emblem for anti-establishment protest groups.\" During the 1999 WTO protests the Earth Rainbow Network had (and still has) a page titled \"The Anti-Establishment Files: Info and background material on the coming World Trade Organization meeting in Seattle.\"\n\nThe United Party Palmer and Pauline Hanson's One Nation Party has been referred to as an anti-establishment party.\n\nThe election of Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador as Mexico President was deemed by punditswas demmed as anti-establishment by pundits.\n\n"}
{"id": "1484463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1484463", "title": "Archontology", "text": "Archontology\n\nArchontology is the study of historical offices and important positions in state, international, political, religious and other organizations and societies. It includes chronology, succession of office holders, their biographies and related records.\n\nPolitical science and history would be void and misunderstood without naming its chief actors. In many cases, these actors were those who either sat on the throne or enjoyed popular support at election or violently seized the power when circumstances permitted. There have always been those who held important state, public and party offices, those who wielded absolute power, those who were limited in their actions by law or tradition. This category colloquially known as \"rulers\" has been an object of studies in scientific chronology for long ages. An interest in studying the rulers emerged long before it became a part of history and chronology as academic disciplines. This distinctive interest in studying the chronologies of heads of states, governments, ministries and other offices may be rigorously defined as institutional chronology or even as archontology (from Greek, αρχων (archon), meaning \"ruler\"; used specifically for supreme magistrates, as in Athens, or even kings, as in the Cimmerian Bosporus).\n\nInstitutional chronology as integral part of general chronology dates back to the times of first civilizations. One of the earliest efforts of ancient historians was aimed at compiling the chronology of contemporary rulers and their predecessors. The kinglists, found in most centers of the ancient civilizations (for an example, see the Sumerian kinglist), formed a basis for building more detailed historical accounts and served as a skeleton for further historical studies. It is difficult to imagine what history of Ancient Egypt we would have, if modern historians could not base their research on the tables of rulers by Manetho and the Abydos inscriptions. The history of Rome would be difficult to reconstruct if we did not have the availability of consular lists. The tradition of keeping records of rulers survived through the ages and became a part of modern history and chronology, but in fact it appears as a distinctive field of study and independent discipline closely related to political science and legal studies.\n\nHistorians and chronographers built the lists of kings, queens, presidents and other powerful leaders. Royal genealogies including information on reigns and pedigree became the first analytical works in institutional chronology. A 17th-century work of R. P. Anselme, \"Histoire de la maison royale de France et des grands officiers de la Couronne\" is an example of early studies focused on the heads of state and the holders of highest state offices.\n\nThe 19th and 20th centuries witnessed the appearance of general works attempting to compile the lists of rulers sorted out by nations and time. The most massive example of such study is the work of Peter Truhart, \"Regenten der Welt/Regents of Nations\" a universal reference book for heads of states and governments of all nations of all times. It was published twice, in 1985 and in 2001, but is still riddled with errors resulting from the attempt by its author to include as much information as available regardless of its validity from the viewpoint of chronology. Works focused on a narrow scope of research enjoyed a far better success. The \"Handbook of British Chronology\", a work continuously improved by its editors, serves as an excellent example of the combining of theoretical, historical and chronological methods.\n\nA large number of studies closely related to the institutional chronology is represented by thematic works on rulers of different nations. These works may include documented information, but often deviate from the main course of archontology. Apparently in attempt to extend the limits of a target group, their authors often focus on curious but less important facts.\n\nContemporary archontology and genealogy receive the support of many enthusiasts interested in collecting the information related to the history of offices. Modern technical improvements should increase the sophistication of chronological analysis and turn institutional chronology into a more refined discipline. These fields not only offer opportunities for amateurs, but currently depend on their input, both as to facts and as to analysis and organization. However, the quality of studies has not yet dramatically improved. The process of collecting attracts many of those whose primary objectives were far from profound analysis and extensive study. The majority of the studies currently being published leans towards an easier approach.\n\nFurther development of archontology as academic discipline requires new approaches. More attention to the facts determining the dates of reigns and offices. What should be accepted as a sound reason for dating the beginning of a reign: the death of a predecessor, the proclamation by parliament, coronation? What does officially determine the premature end of an office holder's tenure: the date of his/her resignation, the date when the resignation was accepted by national legislature, the installation of a successor? Such questions are often neglected or noted only occasionally. Therefore, the study of political developments and national legal systems should be recognized as essential tool in determination of dates. Personal identification of \"rulers\" should be used by adding biographical details including full names, titles, precise dates and geographic locations of births and deaths.\n\nNumerous studies contradict each other concerning even the most obvious dates. The reasons for such contradictions apparently lay in the fact that different authors were chiefly concerned with building consistent chronologies, which recorded each possible name and date, but failed to provide reasonable explanations for picking the dates and sometimes even for historical characters included in such records. In most of these works one can hardly find references to the primary sources including archival documents. A lack of details and proper explanations diminishes the quality of reference works on institutional chronology.\n\nThe availability of quality studies in this field varies from country to country. It is very simple to learn the dates and mechanisms of changing presidents in the United States from 1789, but not every book may answer the question what preceded the inauguration of George Washington and what role the presidents of the Continental Congress played in 1774 - 1788. The history of Russia is covered in thousands of studies, but we still cannot name a book providing documented dates for its heads of government in the 20th century as a constituent republic of the Soviet Union. A number of gaps remain for historians to fill. This enterprise would not involve only the study of printed primary sources, but also a lot of work in the archives.\n\nArchontology is not aimed at a simple collecting of dates and names, but combining them into detailed chronologies, where the changes of office holders are reasonably explained from the viewpoints of history, political science and law. This approach significantly boosts the value of the collected material and should help fill in the gaps existing in chronologies of national leaders. There is no carefully elaborated and universally accepted system for selecting and verifying chronological facts, but such a system would be extremely helpful to determine the criteria of selection for dates and names.\n\nThe lack of authoritative information results from many factors. It might seem to be easy, but verification of dates and creation of consecutive chronologies appears to be a challenging task. Lists of rulers used as appendices to academic works are usually over-simplified and poorly verified. This may be the case because the verification requires consulting a great number of official periodicals and collections of legal statutes published in various countries. The tiny facts related to the changes in government are hidden deeply in the minutes of national parliaments and executive bodies.\n\nAn illustrative example of discovering new names for institutional chronology is the story of Wilhelm Pfannkuch, who was practically excluded from the list of rulers of Germany until the facts were found restoring his place in historical chronology. While Eduard David, the first president of the \"Nationalversammlung\" (7 February 1919 - 13 February 1919), was always considered as temporary head of state of Germany from 7 February 1919 to 11 February 1919, the name of Pfannkuch was omitted. The minutes of the \"Nationalversammlung\" for 6 February 1919 reveal that Pfannkuch indeed chaired the Nationalversammlung on 6 February 1919 and partly on 7 February 1919 as \"Alterspräsident\" (president by age). Thus in his capacity as head of the national constituent assembly, he briefly exercised the functions of head of state.\n\nThe study of national leadership chronologies may be enriched by attaching theoretical analysis of patterns found in political developments of different countries. Provisional governments, temporary substitutions of office holders, term definitions, authentic position titles, regencies – these topics form only a part of theoretical issues.\n\nThe works not focused on the institutional chronology tend to use colloquial terms and definitions, which partially distort the historical retrospective. Currently, most works on chronology of rulers and high state officials require extensive improvement as they appear as skeletons of names and dates, to which no flesh of facts is attached. A reader may find himself confused with thousands of unexplained dates and names, while different works continue to contradict each other, adding to the reader's confusion. The nations whose histories feature a rich variety of constitutional and unconstitutional changes of rulers are presented in the reference books in an impoverished form, due the fact that their institutional histories are not properly studied. It would not be a surprise to fail in finding the complete membership of a Nicaraguan governing junta in the mid-19th century, but we still lack definite works on many European governments. A great number of stand-ins and short-lived political bodies await inclusion in the works on institutional chronology. All these omissions might be done away with only if we applied a more thorough approach to these studies.\n\nTheoretical principles of institutional chronology are still far from being clearly formulated. A researcher puzzled with two or more conflicting dates needs a definite guidance on what event makes the date valid from the viewpoint of institutional chronology or needs an alternative date backed by facts. A simple question as to when an office holder legally took possession of his or her office may raise a number of tough questions. A very interesting instance of this issue is the case of the Executive Directory of the French Republic in 1795 - 1799. Various works on the history of the Executive Directory give rather contradicting answers to a question as to when a directory’s member formally took his office. A detailed study showed that at least three different approaches might be applied to the precise determination of their terms of office. Out of 13 directors, the initial four members officially entered into exercising their duties upon constituting the Directory as an executive body, seven – upon their election, and two – on the dates fixed in a special law. Despite the fact that numerous works on the history of France in the 18th century have been published and continue being published, these difficulties remain largely unknown. As a result, one finds conflicting and confusing appearances of the respective dates in reference works.\n\nA significant portion of sources for studying the institutional chronology consists of the archives of actual legislation. The collections of documents issued for the purpose of governing by the heads of states and governments, ministers, military leaders and others contain valuable information for studying authentic definitions used by the office holders, their self-styles and official parlance in general. Slightest changes in styles, frequently ignored in the works on general history, might be restored only by careful examination of heritage accumulated by the national governments. For instance, it is known that the colloquial use of the term tsar for the All-Russian Emperor in 1721–1917 is strictly incorrect, because in this period the term tsar was used in the sense of monarch only for subsidiary (and partially imaginary) polities (with the exception of Poland, at least from 1815 to 1830). The lack of proper definition for a ruler's style results in a distorted view of political development. The answers are often to be found exclusively in the study of legal documents.\n\nBesides purely academic interest, institutional chronology has a true practical meaning. It is used in many disciplines and can be utilized for different purposes. Definite and proven information on the terms of offices may be successfully used for dating the documents. The advantages of proven chronologies of office holders appear when reasonable defined terms of offices narrow the area of research. The right of signature pertinent to office holders and the dates of holding the office help determine the dates of issuing a document if such date was not found in original copy. The principle of using the rulers' names for year counting is known for many nations including ancient Rome and Greece, imperial China and Japan. The regnal years have an essential role for chronology of England and other European countries. Thus, only a neatly composed chronology of rulers may serve as a good basis for researchers.\n\nThe ultimate goals of institutional chronology cannot be achieved only by removing discrepancies and filling the gaps in the lists of rulers. As a matter of fact, these gaps cannot be reconciled unless some universal definitions and terms are accepted by researchers. The criteria for selection of persons to be included in archontological studies, the criteria for selection and verification of terms and dates, the ways of identification of rulers and office holders are still to be defined. Current approaches should go through reconsideration for further improvement and sophistication.\n\nTo become an independent academic discipline, archontology should focus on elaborating new standards and terminology for classification of rulers and officials. The existing chronologies, based on well established facts, may serve as a basis for archontological studies, but it should be extended, restructured and supplemented with theoretical information including historical, political and juridical aspects for changes in the forms of government and governmental succession. It is not necessarily that the studies should focus on the succession of office holders. The research on authentic titles, mechanisms for succession, classification of legal information, inauguration ceremonies and others may form an organic part of archontology.\n\nWhile a universal improvement of records for all nations and ages could hardly be expected in the nearest future, the study of institutional chronologies for particular countries and supranational unions should be encouraged through sophistication of methods and approaches. The appearance of enriched, verified and documented chronologies recorded with the appropriate technical terminology would signify a real improvement in the development of this field of study and would help the general regeneration of archontology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37862294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37862294", "title": "Beth Kelly", "text": "Beth Kelly\n\nBeth Kelly is an American political theorist and feminist. Kelly is a professor of Women's and Gender Studies and presently serves as director of the department of Irish Studies at DePaul University. From 1997 to 2003, Kelly served as director of the department of Women's and Gender Studies at DePaul, and was a founder of DePaul's LGBT studies program. Since March 2010, Kelly has been chairperson of the Advisory Council on Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Issues, one of eight advisory councils to the Commission on Human Relations for the City of Chicago. Kelly received her PhD from Rutgers University.\n\nKelly is openly lesbian. Regarding her academic career, Kelly says, \"If someone had told me 30 years ago that in 2010 I would be tenured and promoted to a professor as a publicly professed Lesbian at the country's largest Catholic university, I would not have believed them. I love the university and I think I have given back a great deal of my time and effort as a result.\"\n\nAmong her research interests, Kelly lists feminist theory, LGBT politics, and queer theory.\n\nIn 2005, Kelly published the collective memoir \"Telling Our Lives: Conversations on Solidarity and Difference\" with Frida Kerner Furman and Linda Williamson Nelson.\n\nIn March 2010, Chicago Mayor Richard M. Daley named Kelly head of the city's LGBT advisory council for a three-year term. The council serves as a liaison for the gay community to the city government and is responsible for identifying areas of prejudice or discrimination impacting the gay community in relation to housing and human rights issues.\n\nIn 1979, Beth Kelly published an article and autobiographical account titled \"On 'Woman/Girl Love'—Or, Lesbians Do 'Do It.'\" Kelly recounted a sexual relationship she experienced, beginning when she was 8 years old, with a grandaunt who was at least 40–50 years older, and described her personal involvement in similar relationships both \"as a girl and as a woman.\" The article which presents a positive description of pederasty, has been reprinted by pro-pederasty organizations such as NAMBLA.\n\n- \"Three Lives: Conversations on Solidarity and Difference\", with Frida Kerner Furman and Linda Williamson Nelson. Rowman and Littlefield, 2005\n- \"A House Made of Words: Class, Education, and Dissidence in Three Lives\", John Freeman-Moir and Alan Scott, eds. \"Yesterday's Dreams: International and Critical Perspectives on Education and Social Class\", University of Canterbury Press, 2002\n- \"In Goldilocks' Footsteps: Exploring the Discursive Construction of Gay Masculinity in Bear Magazines,\" with Kate Kane, Eric Rofes and Sara Miles eds. \"Opposite Sex: Lesbians and Gay Men Writing About Each Other's Sexuality\", New York University Press, 1998\n- \"Grounds for Criticism: Coffee, Passion, and the Politics of Feminist Discourse\", in Lois Lovelace Duke, \"Women in Politics: Outsiders or Insiders?\", rev. ed., Prentice-Hall, 1995 and 3rd ed., Prentice-Hall, 1998\n- \"Education, Democracy, and Public Knowledge\", Westview Press, 1995 Recipient of Michael Harrington Award for Best Book published in 1995 from New Political Science Section of the American Political Science Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "27980176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27980176", "title": "Bow-wow theory", "text": "Bow-wow theory\n\nA bow-wow theory is any of the theories by various scholars, including Jean-Jacques Rousseau and Johann Gottfried Herder, on the origins of human language.\n\nBow-wow theories suggest that the first human languages developed as onomatopoeia, imitations of natural sounds. The name \"bow-wow theory\" was coined by Max Müller, a philologist who was critical of the notion. The bow-wow theory is largely discredited as an account of the origin of language, though some contemporary theories suggest that general imitative abilities may have played an important role in the evolution of language.\n\n"}
{"id": "864522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=864522", "title": "Buddharupa", "text": "Buddharupa\n\nBuddharūpa (literally, \"Form of the Awakened One\") is the Sanskrit and Pali term used in Buddhism for statues or models of beings who have obtained buddhahood, including the historical Buddha.\n\nDespite cultural and regional differences in the interpretations of texts about the life of Gautama Buddha, there are some general guidelines to the attributes of a Buddharupa:\n\nThe elongated earlobes are vestiges of his life as a prince, when he wore extravagant jewelry. The bump at the top of the head is the ushnisha and represents spirituality, wisdom, and awakening.\n\nDepictions of the Buddha vary widely across cultures.\n\nThe image of Buddhas started to emerge from the first century CE in North India, developed in Gandhara and Mathura. The art of Gandhara was influenced by Ancient Greek art, leading to the development of Greco-Buddhist art with anatomically well-proportioned and realistic figure of the Buddha. One of the most influential Buddhist art was Gupta art and the later Amaravati style. From India the depiction of Buddha spread to the rest of Asia. The Buddharupas of India, Sri Lanka, Javanese Sailendra and Cambodian art usually depict a well-proportioned figure, but sometimes he is shown emaciated, in recollection of the Buddha's years of ascetic practices. Japanese buddharupas are often very square and stolid while Indian and Southeast Asian ones often have thinner figures.\n\nMany people may be familiar with the \"Happy\" or \"Laughing\" Buddha, a different historical figure, who should not be confused with the images of Gautama Buddha. Budai, a Chinese Buddhist monk also known as \"Hotei\", is depicted as fat and happy, almost always shown smiling or laughing, and is associated with Maitreya, the future Buddha.\n\nImages of Buddha sometimes show him reclining, recalling the Buddha Shakyamuni's departure into final nirvana.\n\nOther times he is holding various symbolic objects, or making symbolic mudras (gestures).\n\nThe clothing also varies; in China and Japan, where it is considered socially improper for monks and nuns to expose the upper arm, the Buddharupa has a tunic and long sleeves, much like the traditional monks and nuns, while in India they are often topless. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20905122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20905122", "title": "Bullion Stone", "text": "Bullion Stone\n\nThe Bullion Stone is a late carved Pictish stone, which is unusual in containing a figure; it dates to c. 900-950. It was discovered in 1933 during the construction of a road in Angus, Scotland, and is now located in the Museum of Scotland in Edinburgh. The image on the stone is unique amongst Pictish stones discovered thus far. It depicts a bald, bearded man on a weary horse, carrying a shield and drinking from a very large drinking horn with a bird's head terminal, a parallel that has been noted to the Torrs Horns, also in the museum, of nearly 1,000 years earlier.\n\n"}
{"id": "177640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=177640", "title": "Carsten Niebuhr", "text": "Carsten Niebuhr\n\nCarsten Niebuhr or Karsten Niebuhr (17 March 1733 Lüdingworth – 26 April 1815 Meldorf, Dithmarschen), a German mathematician, cartographer, and explorer in the service of Denmark, is renowned for his participation in the Royal Danish Arabia Expedition (1761-1767). He was the father of the Danish-German statesman and historian Barthold Georg Niebuhr, who published an account of his father's life in 1817.\n\nNiebuhr was born in Lüdingworth (now a part of Cuxhaven, Lower Saxony) in what was then Bremen-Verden. His father Barthold Niebuhr (1704-1749) was a successful farmer and owned his own property. Carsten and his sister were educated at home by a local school teacher, then he attended the Latin School in Otterndorf, near Cuxhaven.\n\nOriginally Niebuhr had intended to become a surveyor, but in 1757 he went to the \"Georgia Augusta\" University of Göttingen, at this time Germany's most progressive institution of higher education. Niebuhr was probably a strong student because in 1760 Johann David Michaelis (1717-1791) recommended him as a participant in the Royal Danish Arabia Expedition (1761-1767), mounted by Frederick V of Denmark (1722-1766). For a year and a half before the expedition Niebuhr studied mathematics, cartography and navigational astronomy under Tobias Mayer (1723-1762), one of the premier astronomers of the 18th century, and the author of the Lunar Distance Method for determining longitude. Niebuhr's observations during the Arabia Expedition proved the accuracy and the practicality of this method for use by mariners at sea.\n\nThe expedition sailed in January 1761 via Marseilles and Malta to Istanbul and Alexandria. Then the members of the expedition visited Cairo and Sinai, before traversing the Red Sea via Jiddah to Yemen, which was their main destination. In Mocha, on 25 May 1763, the expedition's philologist, Frederik Christian von Haven, died, and on 11 July 1763, on the way to Sana, the capital of Yemen, its naturalist Peter Forsskål also died. In Sana the remaining members of the expedition had an audience with the Imam of Yemen al-Mahdi Abbas (1719-1775), but suffered from the climate and returned to Mocha. Niebuhr seems to have preserved his own life and restored his health by adopting native dress and eating native food. From Mocha the expedition continued to Bombay, the expedition's artist Georg Wilhelm Baurenfeind died on the 29th of August and the expedition's servant Lars Berggren on the following day; both were buried at sea. The surgeon Christian C. Kramer (1732-1763) also died, soon after landing in Bombay.\n\nNiebuhr was now the only surviving member. He stayed in Bombay for fourteen months and then returned home by way of Muscat, Bushire, Shiraz and Persepolis. His copies of the cuneiform inscriptions at Persepolis proved to be a key turning-point in the decipherment of cuneiform, and the birth of Assyriology. He also visited the ruins of Babylon (making many important sketches), Baghdad, Mosul and Aleppo. He seems also to have visited the Behistun Inscription in around 1764. After a visit to Cyprus he made a tour through Palestine, crossed the Taurus Mountains to Bursa, reached Constantinople in February 1767 and finally arrived in Copenhagen in the following November.\n\nIn 1773 Niebuhr married Christiane Sophia Blumenberg, the daughter of the crown physician, and for some years he held a post in the Danish military service, which enabled him to remain in Copenhagen. In 1776 he was elected a foreign member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences. In 1778 he accepted a position in the civil service of Danish Holstein, and went to reside at Meldorf (Ditmarschen). In 1806 he was promoted to \"Etatsrat\", and in 1809 was made a Knight of the Order of the Dannebrog, one of Denmark-Norway's most valued honours for service.\n\nNiebuhr's first book, \"Beschreibung von Arabien\", was published in Copenhagen in 1772, the Danish government providing subsidies for the engraving and printing of its numerous illustrations. This was followed in 1774 and 1778 by the first two volumes of Niebuhr's \"Reisebeschreibung nach Arabien und andern umliegender Ländern\". These works (particularly the one published in 1778), and most specifically the accurate copies of the cuneiform inscriptions found at Persepolis, were to prove to be extremely important to the decipherment of cuneiform writing. Before Niebuhr's publication, cuneiform inscriptions were often thought to be merely decorations and embellishments, and no accurate decipherments or translations had been made up to that point. Niebuhr demonstrated that the three trilingual inscriptions found at Persepolis were in fact three distinct forms of cuneiform writing (which he termed Class I, Class II, and Class III) to be read from left to right. His accurate copies of the trilingual inscriptions gave Orientalists the key to finally crack the cuneiform code, leading to the discovery of Old Persian, Akkadian, and Sumerian.\n\nThe third volume of the Reisebeschreibung, also based on materials from the expedition, was not published till 1837, long after Niebuhr's death, under the editorship of his daughter and his assistant, Johan Nicolaus Gloyer. Niebuhr also contributed papers on the interior of Africa, the political and military condition of the Ottoman Empire, and other subjects to a German periodical, the \"Deutsches Museum\". In addition, he edited and published the work of his friend Peter Forsskål, the naturalist on the Arabian expedition, under the titles \"Descriptiones animalium, Flora Aegyptiaco-Arabica\" and \"Icones rerum naturalium\" (Copenhagen, 1775 and 1776).\n\nFrench and Dutch translations of Niebuhr's narratives were published during his lifetime, and a condensed English translation of his own three volumes, prepared by Robert Heron, was published in Edinburgh in 1792, under the title \"Travels through Arabia\". A facsimile edition of this translation, as by \"M. Niebuhr\", was published in two volumes by the Libraire du Liban, Beirut (undated).\n\nThe government funds covered only a fraction of the printing costs for Niebuhr's first book, and probably a similar or smaller proportion of the costs for the other two volumes. To ensure that the volumes were published, Niebuhr had to pay over 80% of the costs himself. In all, Niebuhr devoted ten years of his life, the years 1768-1778, to the publication of six volumes of findings from the expedition. He had virtually no help from the academics who had conceived and shaped the expedition in Göttingen and Copenhagen. It was only Niebuhr's determination to publish the findings of the expedition that ensured that the Danish Arabia Expedition would produce results that would benefit the world of scholarship.\n\nNiebuhr died in Meldorf in 1815.\n\nJohann Wolfgang von Goethe (1749-1832) highly prized Niebuhr's works. In 1811 he wrote to his son Barthold Georg Niebuhr, that \"You carry a name which I have learned to honour since my youth.\"\n\nCarsten Niebuhrs Gade, a street in the port area of Copenhagen, is named for him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1713539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1713539", "title": "Catholic Church and politics", "text": "Catholic Church and politics\n\nCatholic Church and politics aims to cover subjects of where the Catholic Church and politics share common ground.\n\nAccording to the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, \"the separation of church and state does not require division between belief and public action, between moral principles and political choices, but protects the right of believers and religious groups to practice their faith and act on their values in public life.\"\n\nAs a program and a movement, political Catholicism - a political and cultural conception which promotes the ideas and social teaching of the Catholic Church (\"Catholic social teaching\") in public life through government action - was started by Prussian Catholics in the second half of the 19th century, as a response to secular social concepts. The main reason were the measures by Chancellor Otto von Bismarck to limit the influence of Catholic Church, first in Prussia, and then in united Germany. That struggle is known in history as the \"Kulturkampf\".\n\nFrom Germany, political Catholic social movements spread in Austria-Hungary, especially in today's Austria, Ukraine, Slovenia and Croatia. Catholic Action was the name of many groups of lay Catholics who were attempting to encourage a Catholic influence on political society.\n\nAfter the 1891 encyclical \"Rerum novarum\" \"(Of New Things)\" by Pope Leo XIII, political Catholic movements got a new impulse for development, and they spread the area of their involvement. With this encyclical, the Catholic Church expanded its interest in social, economical, political and cultural issues, and it called for a drastic conversion of Western society in the 19th century in the face of capitalist influences. Following the release of the document, the labour movement which had previously floundered began to flourish in Europe and later in North America. Catholic believers, both lay and clergy alike, had a desire for active social and political engagement in order to deal with acute social problems according to Catholic Christian principles, as opposed to a purely secular approach. For example, Mary Harris Jones, better known as \"Mother Jones\", and the National Catholic Welfare Council were central in the campaign to end child labour in the United States during the early 20th century.\n\nIn the 20th century, Catholic political movements became very strong in Spain, Italy, Germany, Austria, Ireland, France and Latin America. What these movements had in common was a defense of the acquired rights of the Catholic Church (attacked by anticlerical politicians) and a defense of Christian faith and moral values (threatened by increasing secularization). Members of opposing schools of thought called such attempts clericalism.\n\nThese Catholic movements developed various forms of Christian democratic ideology, generally promoting a morally and socially conservative agenda whilst supporting a middle ground third way between unrestrained capitalism and state socialism. Freemasons were seen mainly as enemies and vehement opponents of political Catholicism. A special situation occurred in Mexico, where an atheistic president ruled in the 1920s and oppressed the Church and Catholics. This led to the open Christian revolution of 1926 to 1929, known as the Cristero War.\n\nSome of the earliest important political parties were:\n\n\nMost of these parties in Europe joined together in White International (1922). Franco's mixture of Catholicism and nationalism received its own brand of National Catholicism and it inspired similar movements throughout Europe.\n\nIn addition to political parties, Catholic/Christian trade unions were created, which fought for worker's rights: the earliest include:\n\n\nAfter World War II, more unions were formed, including:\n\n\nUntil the Second Vatican Council, the Church did not always accept the model of modern democracy and its expansion into social and economic realms because it was wary of anticlerical socialistic tendencies. When Catholic social activists were perceived to be too extreme in social conflicts, the Church hierarchy tried to stop their excesses; occasions of this included the Worker-priest movement in France in the 1940s and 1950s, and liberation theology in Latin America in the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s. But some movements were strongly supported by the Church - in Australia the Catholic Social Studies Movement during the 1940s and 1950s, from which the National Civic Council has developed.\n\nCatholic clergy and lay activists sometimes tended to support far-right leaders such Francisco Franco and António de Oliveira Salazar, as well as the military regimes in Latin America. As a result, many workers involved in the labor movement joined social democratic and communist parties, which were sometimes secular and called for revolution against old values, which included religion and the Church.\n\nIn recent times, after the Second World War, Christian engagement in politics became weaker and even \"Demo-Christian\" parties by name lost some of their Christianity. Stronger Christian involvement in Europe on the beginning of the 21st century has produced some new small parties, for example those joined in the European Christian Political Movement. According to \"New York Times\" columnist Ross Douthat, part of the younger generation of Catholics are now showing a renewed interest in forms of political Catholicism such as a revived Catholic Integralism or Tradinista! socialism.\n\n"}
{"id": "54656430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54656430", "title": "Cave monastery of İnceğiz", "text": "Cave monastery of İnceğiz\n\nThe Cave monastery of İnceğiz () is a cave monastery formed by carving a rocky cliff located in İnceğiz village of Çatalca district in Istanbul Province, northwestern Turkey.\n\nİnceğiz village is located about northwest of Çatalca. The cave monastery is situated at Karasu Valley overlooking Karasu Creek. It is a four-story apartment building of rock-cut architecture. The structure was cut out in limestone formation, which has a suitable lithography for easy forming. The site in the cliff is accessible by a wooden staircase on the trail. The openings of the cliff dwelling are barred by chains.\n\nInitially, the four stories were interconnected. However, due to erosion and earthquakes, some parts of the structure collapsed, and so some of the connections are broken. The first floor contains three rooms. The staircase inside the structure leading from the first floor to the upper floors has broken down while only few steps below the second floor are intact. The second floor is accessible from outside. On the second floor, there is a church measuring with a large crucifix relief on the wall. The dome of the cross-formed room is in diameter. The third floor contains three rooms including two large ones. On the fourth floor, there is a residence room of size and a chapel.\n\nThe cave monastery has been known since the 1950s. It is assumed that it was heavily used by Christians for a while. It is likely that the place was inhabited from the 4th century until the end of the 12th century, and was used as a Byzantine monastery. However, archaeological excavations carried out between 1992 and 1995 revealed that the area was settled even much earlier.\n"}
{"id": "56289683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56289683", "title": "Center Forward", "text": "Center Forward\n\nCenter Forward is an American political action committee advocating centrist policies in the United States government. The organization has roots in the Blue Dog Coalition of centrist Democrats who hold some common views with Republican counterparts. The organization’s mission is to promote business growth and maintain fiscal responsibility while also promoting meaningful reforms. After the Blue Dog Coalition whittled in members, the organization was founded to promote more centrist views among the party. Blue Dog members have noted that Center Forward could be the path towards the return of a Democratic majority.\n\nCenter Forward has endorsed various politicians, including John Barrow in Georgia’s 2014 elections.\n\nCenter Forward reportedly spent $1 million on national television ads promoting a bipartisan approach to balancing the budget. It is chaired by former Democratic Representative Bud Cramer.\n"}
{"id": "32319492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32319492", "title": "Cleveland Cultural Gardens", "text": "Cleveland Cultural Gardens\n\nThe Cleveland Cultural Gardens are a collection of public gardens located in Rockefeller Park in Cleveland, Ohio. The gardens are situated along East Boulevard & Martin Luther King Jr. Drive within the 276 acre of wooded parkland on the city's East Side. In total, there are 31 distinct gardens, each commemorating a different ethnic group whose immigrants have contributed to the heritage of the United States over the centuries, as well as Cleveland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6530298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6530298", "title": "Confessions Illustrated", "text": "Confessions Illustrated\n\nConfessions Illustrated was a black-and-white magazine published by EC Comics in early 1956. Part of EC's Picto-Fiction line, each magazine featured three to five stories. The format alternated blocks of text with several illustrations per page.\n\nThe first issue had a cover date of January–February 1956, but the second issue was the last. A third issue existed but was not printed by EC. The Picto-Fiction magazines lost money from the start, and the line was canceled when EC's distributor went bankrupt.\n\n\"Confessions Illustrated\" was edited by Al Feldstein. The stories were written by Daniel Keyes. Artists featured include Bud Parke, Jack Kamen, Joe Orlando, Wally Wood, Johnny Craig, Rudy Nappi and Reed Crandall.\n\nIn 2006 \"Confessions Illustrated\" was reprinted along with the other Picto-Fiction magazines by publisher Russ Cochran (and Gemstone Publishing) in hardbound volumes as the final part of his Complete EC Library. The reprint volume included the previously unpublished third issue of \"Confessions Illustrated\".\n"}
{"id": "34966381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34966381", "title": "Conservation and restoration of silver objects", "text": "Conservation and restoration of silver objects\n\nThe conservation and restoration of silver objects is an activity dedicated to the preservation and protection of objects of historical and personal value made from silver. When applied to cultural heritage this activity is generally undertaken by a conservator-restorer.\n\nHistorically, objects made from silver were created for religious, artistic, technical, and domestic uses. The act of conservation and restoration strives to prevent and slow the deterioration of the object as well as protecting the object for future use. The prevention and removal of surface tarnish is the primary concern of conservator-restorers when dealing with silver objects.\n\nSilver is a precious metal that has been mined for use as early as 4000 B.C. in Anatolia (Modern Turkey) Because silver is malleable and durable it has been used for many purposes which include jewelry, tableware, ornaments, coins, musical instruments and movie film. It is often used as a plating on other metals.\n\nAll metals, apart from pure gold, will corrode naturally when exposed to elements such as air. High relative humidity, moisture, and air pollutants are common causes of corrosion in metals, including silver. Silver is known in the chemistry world as a noble metal which means it is resistant to corrosion, but not completely. Whether silver plating or pure silver, the composite of the metal will tarnish when exposed to air and sulfur.\n\nTarnish is a chemical reaction on the surface of metal (copper, brass, silver, etc.) and causes a layer of corrosion. In the case of silver tarnish, the silver combines with sulfur and forms silver sulfide ( Ag2S ) which is black. The original silver surface can be restored if the layer of silver sulfide is removed. On some metals, tarnish serves as a protective layer known as a patina and is typically found on copper and bronze roofing, architectural elements, statues and bells.\n\nProper handling, storage, and treatment can help prevent deterioration of silver objects. Metals are best conserved when stored in an even and low humidity atmosphere, ideally at 40% relative humidity or lower. Silver tends to corrode easily when stored in damp, moist locations such as a basement because it will accelerate tarnishing. Some storage boxes contain materials, such as wood, acidic paper, rubber, and adhesives, that can off-gas corrosive materials. Conservators wear nitrile gloves when handling silver to prevent oils, ammonia, and salts from the skin from corroding the surface.\n\nSulfur-containing gases and particulates can tarnish the surface of silver. These corrosive agents can come from air pollution, paints, textiles, bacterial by-products, and other chemically treated objects or building materials. When storing silver, museum conservators wrap silver in sulfur-free tissue paper and store in a tight sealed polyethylene bag. Activated charcoal is sometimes used to absorb sulfur by placing it in the bag but not in direct contact with the object. Likewise, Pacific Silver Cloth has also been used by museums to prevent tarnishing.\n\nLacquering is the process of creating a hard durable finish on the surface of an object such as wood or metal.\nPolished silver is sometimes lacquered to protect against tarnish and to prevent over-polishing. There are different types of resins that are used such as Acryloid B-72 and Incralac. If silver pieces are being displayed in the open, such as in a house or museum exhibit case, it is difficult to prevent corrosion from air exposure. A surface coating will prevent or slow tarnishing and is a service done by professionals or conservator. One of the most used coatings is Agateen.\n\nLacquer is applied to a surface that has been cleaned with ethanol, acetone, or methyl ethyl ketone. Oils from human hands prevent the lacquer from adhering to the silver. Agateen No. 27 (cellulose nitrate) and Paraloid B-72 are the most commonly used lacquers however there is a debate which lacquer, cellulose nitrate or acrylic, is best.\n\nThe art of crafting objects out of silver, also known as silversmithing, has been around for centuries. With the creation of hand-made silver objects, the issue of cleaning and caring for these items was a concern. Silversmiths would give advice to clients on how to properly care for their silver. Here are examples of instructions given by silversmiths in the 17th and 18th centuries.\n\nAlthough dated, these instructions are very similar to current methods of cleaning and polishing of silver.\n\nThe following sections discuss the different methods in which silver objects can be cleaned and polished. Some of the methods described below can cause damage to the surface of the silver, such as scratching or accelerated tarnishing. A conservator should be consulted if there are any questions about the methods below especially when dealing with archaeological, antique or sensitive objects.\n\nWater sensitive objects are masked in plastic wrap to avoid getting wet. A slurry of precipitated (pharmaceutical grade) calcium carbonate and deionized water is created and rubbed onto the silver piece with a cotton rag or cotton ball. It is recommended that the slurry be tested on the bottom or in a non-visible area of the silver for abrasiveness. If the slurry is too abrasive it will scratch the surface and increase the potential for future tarnishing. The polish is applied with a soft cloth and polished in a circular motion.\n\nEthyl alcohol is sometimes added to the slurry mixture to help dry out excess water. The slurry mixture is applied throughout the piece until completely polished. Dark tarnish spots are sometimes located on the surface and may need to be polished more than once to remove. Over polishing is an issue with silver and can cause harm to the surface of the metal. After polishing, the silver object is rinsed in deionized water and dried with a cotton cloth.\n\nOnce cleaned and dried the silver is wrapped in acid-free tissue paper and placed in a sealed plastic bag. A 3M anti-tarnish strip is also placed in the bag to absorb any sulfur that may be in the air. The tissue paper is used as a buffer to prevent the silver surface coming into contact with the anti-tarnish strip.\n\nWaddings are cloths that have been infused with an organic solvent. Because they contain solvents instead of water, they can be used for polishing metal objects that cannot be exposed to water. Polishing waddings will leave abrasive particles behind and the residue can be removed using a soft brush or by rubbing the surface with a soft linen cloth.\n\nThe following sections include methods that use natural methods such as water and salt to clean the surface of silver. Some of the methods use heat which may be dangerous to silver tableware such as candlesticks or knife handles. Water trapped in crevices of silver objects can accelerate tarnishing.\n\n\"Single Ingredient\" - Toothpaste is applied with a clean cloth as a gentle abrasive with a soft bristle toothbrush and rinsed in water.\n\n\"Boiling Water Bath\" - The silver object or pieces are placed into an aluminum pot and covered with water. One tablespoon of salt and baking soda is added and boiled for three minutes. After cooling, the silver is placed into a warm soapy water mixture and cleaned with a cotton cloth and then dried with a separate cotton cloth. \n\n\"Soaking bath\" – A glass roasting pan is lined with aluminum foil with the dull side facing downwards. The silver is placed atop of the foil and a quart of boiling water is poured over the pieces with two tablespoons of baking soda. The silver soaks for five minutes and is dried with a clean cloth.\n\nA popular and quick method for polishing silver is the use of chemical dips. Dips work by dissolving the tarnished surface of the silver at a highly accelerated rate. Many dips are made of acids and other agents. Acids are very corrosive and pose a danger to the silver surface as well as to the user. Dips can be harmful to objects with sealed surfaces such as candlesticks, trophies and teapots with hollow components because the chemical could leak into the hollow area and can never be removed. Unlike museum quality polishing, employing a slurry of calcium carbonate and ionized water, dips are quicker and less expensive. However, dips are more abrasive to the surfaces of silver, gold, and other metals. NOTE: Jeffrey Herman confirms this method damages silver.\n\nCan be used.\nThe above process wil naturally lead to the cleaning of silver, which is passed through lasers to remove any dirt and pollutants.\n\nCan be used.\nPlasma cleaning\n\nPolishing wheels, also known as buffing wheels or polishing mops, use a specific electric tool to physically remove tarnish from the surface rather than chemically as with the calcium carbonate slurry or commercial dips.\n\nBecause silver is soft, the surface can be easily cut or scratched. The main buffing type used for silver, gold, and plated objects is Canton flannel. This flannel is made of very soft material and will not scratch the plated, lacquered, or other soft surfaces.\n\nAlong with buffing wheels, particular compounds are used to help polish the material. Two main types of compounds used for silver and gold surfaces are red and blue compounds. Red, also known as jeweler's rouge, polishes without any cutting action. The blue compound is a dryer compound and is used with a grease-less wheel that also does not cut or scratch the surface.\n\nArchaeological silver objects are particularly sensitive to mistakes in planning or carrying out conservation restoration. The essential problem connected with archaeological silver objects is brittleness. Certain objects, such as those that are completely mineralized, nielloed, or gil, are particularly problematic. When dealing with archaeological objects, reversible processes, such as the use of Paraloid B-72 glue, are preferred to permanent treatments.\n\nBenzotriazole can be used as corrosion inhibitor for archaeological importance. Suitable protective coatings include Paraloid B-72 (or Paraloid B 67 - soluble in white spirit) and Renaissance Wax.\n\n\n\nSILVER: THE CONSERVATOR´S PERSPECTIVE,INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF CONSERVATION SCIENCE Volume 9, Issue 1, January-March 2018: 81-90\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29302533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29302533", "title": "EASE Guidelines for Authors and Translators of Scientific Articles", "text": "EASE Guidelines for Authors and Translators of Scientific Articles\n\nEASE Guidelines for Authors and Translators of Scientific Articles to be Published in English (often shortened to EASE Guidelines for Authors and Translators or EASE Guidelines) were first published by the European Association of Science Editors (EASE) in 2010. Updated versions are periodically released at the EASE Guidelines page of the EASE website. \"EASE Guidelines\" summarize the most important editorial recommendations, aiming to make international scientific communication more efficient and to aid in preventing scientific misconduct. They also support the global initiative Healthcare Information For All by 2015 by advising authors to make abstracts of their papers highly informative, reliable, and easily understandable. The document has been translated into many languages (Arabic, Bangla, Bosnian, Bulgarian, Chinese, Croatian, Czech, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Hungarian, Indonesian, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Persian, Polish, Portuguese (Brazilian), Romanian, Russian, Serbian, Spanish, Turkish, and Vietnamese), to facilitate its popularization worldwide and help scientists from non-Anglophone countries.\n\n\"EASE Guidelines\" are a result of long discussions on the electronic EASE Forum and during the , as well as subsequent consultations within the EASE Council.\n\nThe document includes a succinct set of practical guidelines explaining how to write complete, concise and clear manuscripts (see a short presentation). It is supplemented with a list for further reading as well as several short appendices (Abstracts; Ambiguity; Cohesion; Ethics; Plurals; Simplicity; Spelling; Text-tables) that present selected issues in greater detail or provide more examples.\n\n\"EASE Guidelines\" emphasize the need for proper structuring of the article (e.g. making the tested hypothesis clear in the Introduction), making the abstract highly informative (including most important data and conclusions), and writing understandably, so that the readers are not discouraged or confused. Ethical issues are also taken into account, e.g. authorship criteria, plagiarism, redundant publications, and other types of scientific misconduct. The 2013 edition of the publication ethics checklist (Appendix: Ethics, page 10 of \"EASE Guidelines\") was presented at the 3rd World Conference on Research Integrity in Montreal in May 2013. It can be used routinely during submission, as one short form instead of many separate forms to be filled by authors.\n\nThe EASE Council plans to add more appendices on specific subjects and more translations (made mostly by volunteers), as well as to review \"EASE Guidelines\" annually.\n\nNon-commercial printing of the document is allowed, so it can be used as a handout, e.g. for courses in scientific writing and publication ethics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10497760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10497760", "title": "Echetlus", "text": "Echetlus\n\nEchetlaeus (Ancient Greek: Ἐχετλαῖος) or Echetlus (Ἔχετλος) was an ancient Athenian mythical hero of the Battle of Marathon with the Persians of the Achaemenid Empire. The latter name was also the name of a hero of ancient Thebes.\n\nThe following tradition was current in ancient Athens after the Battle of Marathon. \n\nDuring the battle, a man appeared among the Athenians, who resembled a rustic, and slew many of the Persians with his plough. After the battle, he disappeared. When the Athenians searched for him, they couldn't find him anywhere.When they consulted the oracle, they were commanded to worship the hero Echetlaeus, that is the hero with the \"echetlon\", or ploughshare.\nThis Echetlus was depicted in the painting which represented the Battle of Marathon in the Stoa Poikile (Painted Porch), erected during the 5th century BC and located in the Ancient Agora of Athens. The Stoa Poikile was one of the most famous sites in ancient Athens, due to its display of war-related paintings and loot.\n\nIn addition, in the play \"Seven Against Thebes\", Echetlus is the name of one of the defenders of Thebes. He is killed when the seven attacked the city.\n"}
{"id": "6958049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6958049", "title": "Editorial independence", "text": "Editorial independence\n\nEditorial independence is the freedom of editors to make decisions without interference from the owners of a publication. Editorial independence is tested, for instance, if a newspaper runs articles that may be unpopular with its advertising clientele or critical of its ownership.\n\n"}
{"id": "1519201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1519201", "title": "Faqeeh", "text": "Faqeeh\n\nA Faqeeh (plural \"Fuqahā\", ) is an \"Islamic jurist\", an expert in fiqh, or Islamic jurisprudence and Islamic Law.\n\nIslamic jurisprudence or fiqh is the human understanding of the Sharia (believed by Muslims to represent divine law as revealed in the Quran and the \"Sunnah\" (the teachings and practices of the Islamic prophet Muhammad)) —sharia expanded and developed by interpretation (\"ijtihad\") of the Quran and \"Sunnah\" by Islamic jurists (\"Ulema\") and implemented by the rulings (\"Fatwa\") of jurists on questions presented to them.\n\n\"Fiqh\" deals with the observance of rituals, morals and social legislation in Islam. In the modern era there are four prominent schools (\"madh'hab\") of \"fiqh\" within Sunni practice and two (or three) within Shi'a practice.\n\nThe historian Ibn Khaldun describes \"fiqh\" as \"knowledge of the rules of God which concern the actions of persons who own themselves bound to obey the law respecting what is required (\"wajib\"), sinful (\"haraam\"), recommended (\"mandūb\"), disapproved (\"makrūh\") or neutral (\"mubah\")\". This definition is consistent amongst the jurists.\n\nAnother definition of \"Fiqh\" is \"Knowledge of legislative rulings, pertaining to the actions of man, as derived from their detailed evidences.\"\n\n\nMethods of derivation are laid out in the books of \"Usul Al Fiqh\" (principles of fiqh), and those evidences which are deemed valid for deriving rulings from are many in number. Four of them are agreed upon by the vast Majority of Jurists, they are:\n\nThese four types of evidence are seen as acceptable by the vast majority of Jurists from both the schools of Sunni Jurists (the Hanafi, Maliki, Shafi'i, and Hanbali and sometimes the Zahiriyah), as well as Shi'a Jurists. However, Zahiriyah or Literalists do not see Qiyas as valid.\n\nWhile Twelver Shia see edicts of the Twelve Imams as holding the same weight as the Quran and Sunnah, this is unacceptable by Sunni Jurists.\n\nThe Faqeeh is one who has fulfilled the conditions for Ijtihad either in their entirety or in piecemeal. In the Sunni point of view it is generally held that there are either no (or very few) Jurists or Fuqaha that have reached the level of Mujtahid Mutlaq in our day and age. In the Twelver (Ithna Asheri) Shia view, each of their Marja' have reached this level.\n\nThe Faqeeh who fulfills all conditions of Ijtihad is sometimes referred to as a \"Mujtahid Mutlaq\" or Unrestricted Jurist-Scholar, while he who has not reached that level generally will master of the methodology (\"Usul\") used by one or more of the prominent \"madhhab\" and then able to apply this methodology to arrive at the traditional legal rulings of his/her respective madhhab. According to the Sunni Muslim website Living Islam, \"There is no mujtahid mutlaq today nor even a claimant to that title.\"\n\nBelow the level of Mujtahid Mutlaq is the \"Mujtahid Muqayyad\" or a Restricted Jurist-Scholar. A \"Mujtahid Muqayyad\" must pass rulings according to the confines of his particular madhhab (school of jurisprudence), or particular area of specialization. This is according to the view that Ijtihad or the ability of legal deduction can be achieved in specified areas, and does not require a holistic grasp of the Shariah and its entailing Laws and legal theory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2794969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2794969", "title": "Gallus Mag", "text": "Gallus Mag\n\nGallus Mag (real name unknown) was a 6-foot-tall plus female bouncer at a 19th century New York City Water Street bar called \"The Hole in the Wall\", who figures prominently in New York City folklore. The name \"Gallus\" originated from the unladylike men's suspenders she was fond of wearing, and Mag or Meg was likely her forename. \n\nHerbert Asbury's book \"The Gangs of New York\" thus described her:\n\n"}
{"id": "50822029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50822029", "title": "Gender Balance Council", "text": "Gender Balance Council\n\nThe Gender Balance Council (Arabic: مجلس الإمارات للتوازن بين الجنسين \"majlis al-ʾimārāt lit-tawāzun bayna al-jinsayn\") is a federal entity in the UAE. According to Sheikha Jawaher bint Mohammed Al Qasimi, the Gender Balance Council seeks empowering women and enhancing their role in the development of the UAE. In the country, more women graduate from universities than; however, social and legal constrains are put on women's work. The GBC is chaired by President of Dubai Women Establishment, Shaikha Manal bint Mohammed Al Maktoum. Currently 41st on the international gender equality index, the UAE is set to be one of the world’s top 25 by the year 2021.\n\nThe UAE Gender Balance Council was created by virtue of a Cabinet resolution issued in February 2015. \"The focus of the GBC is women empowerment in order to achieve more development in the country.\n\nAs of 2016, the hierarchy of the council includes \nIn addition to representatives of presidency affairs ministries, cabinet affairs and ministries of foreign affairs, economics, social affairs, labor and the federal committee for human resources.\n\nThe Gender Balance Council's goal is to achieve female empowerment. The establishment of the GBC was announced by Sh. Mohammed during a session, \"Toward Gender Balance in Governments\", on the role of women in development and the UAE’s international competitiveness.\n\nThe GBC’s role consists of bridging the gap between women and men and enhancing the UAE’s global status in the matter. The GBC undertakes several legal roles, notably review of legislation introduced and policies proposed in the matter of gender balance, but also seeks to balance rights like nationality rights, divorce rights, guardianship and custody rights, inheritance rights, freedom of movement, protection from child, marriage, and protection from gender-based violence.\n\nSet by ruler of Dubai, a goal for the UAE to become one of the world’s top 25 countries for gender equality by 2021.\n\nThe Constitution of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) upholds the principle of equal treatment of all citizens, but does not specifically address gender-based discrimination and contains references that primarily identify women as wives and mothers.As such, the Constitution, as well as other laws, tends to reinforce traditional gender roles, rather than promoting equality between women and men in the UAE. Aware of this situation, the United Arab Emirates tends to make the necessary and possible legal amendment to surpass any noted shortage in gender balance.\n\nThe General Women’s Union is a national organization which launched the “Know your Rights” campaign with MEPI in October 2009 to empower Emirati women to understand their rights, under UAE law and international conventions, and increase their awareness of the current personal status law in the UAE, as issued in 2006, and its application. The strategy aims at activating the role of women in the UAE and ensuring their positive participation in eight key areas: education, economy, media, social work, health; legislation; environment as well as political and executive fields.\n\nIn August 2016 the GBC announced the establishment of a committee to review the law and to activate the Gender Balance Index across various sectors.\n\nThe country's 'Ministry of Happiness' is headed by Ohoud Al Roumi, while five roles in the new cabinet went to women as well.\n\nThe UAE encourages the creation of NGO’s that defend women rights as a very effective manner to guarantee that the Emirati society adopt the values that champion human rights in general, notably women rights.\n\nThe GBC has a priority of creating a supportive environment for women and working \"to alter stereotypes\" about Arab women.\n\nThe literacy rate of women in the UAE was 80.7 percent in 2003, higher than the male literacy rate of 75.6 percent. Across all institutions of higher education in the UAE, including both Federal and private institutions, the total number of UAE National women enrolled in higher education is approximately 190 percent of the number of UAE National males.\n\nIn August 2016,The GBC announced it would review the country’s maternity law, and some private sector firms have already enhanced their policies. Dubai-based Omnicom Media Group MENA recently increased entitlement to 90 days, following a number of requests.\n\n\nGeneral references\n"}
{"id": "484772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=484772", "title": "Ginger Group", "text": "Ginger Group\n\nThe Ginger Group was not a formal political party in Canada, but a faction of radical Progressive and Labour Members of Parliament who advocated socialism. The term ginger group also refers to a small group with new, radical ideas trying to act as a catalyst within a larger body.\n\nThe Ginger Group split with the Progressive Party in 1924 when Progressive leader Robert Forke proved too eager to accommodate the Liberal government of William Lyon Mackenzie King and agreed to support the government's budget with only minimal concessions. J. S. Woodsworth, using his right as the leader of the Independent Labour MPs, moved a stronger amendment to the budget based on demands the Progressives had made in earlier years but had since abandoned. The Progressive and Labour MPs who broke with their Progressive colleagues to support Woodsworth became the \"Ginger Group\". It was made up of United Farmers of Alberta MPs George Gibson Coote, Robert Gardiner, Edward Joseph Garland, Donald MacBeth Kennedy and Henry Elvins Spencer as well as United Farmers of Ontario MP Agnes Macphail. The group was later joined by Labour MPs J. S. Woodsworth, William Irvine, Abraham Albert Heaps and Angus MacInnis, independent MP Joseph Tweed Shaw and Progressive MPs Milton Neil Campbell, William John Ward, William Charles Good, and Preston Elliott.\n\nMembers of the Ginger Group played a role in forming the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation in 1932, with Woodsworth becoming the new party's leader.\n\nThe only sitting United Farmers of Alberta who did not join the CCF at its founding was William Thomas Lucas who ran for re-election unsuccessfully as a Conservative in 1935.\n\nThe name Ginger Group was also used to refer to a group of Conservative MPs who, in 1917 opposed Prime Minister Robert Borden's use of the Military Service Act to introduce conscription during the Conscription Crisis of 1917.\n\n"}
{"id": "6641931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6641931", "title": "I Am Legend (film)", "text": "I Am Legend (film)\n\nI Am Legend is a 2007 American post-apocalyptic science fiction drama film based on the novel of the same name, directed by Francis Lawrence and starring Will Smith, who plays US Army virologist Robert Neville. The story is set in New York City after a virus, which was originally created to cure cancer, has wiped out most of mankind, leaving Neville as the last human in New York, other than nocturnal mutants. Neville is immune to the virus and he works to develop a cure while defending himself against the hostile mutants.\n\nWarner Bros. began developing \"I Am Legend\" in 1994, and various actors and directors were attached to the project, though production was delayed due to budgetary concerns related to the script. Production began in 2006 in New York City, filming mainly on location in the city, including a $5 million scene at the Brooklyn Bridge. It is the third feature-film adaptation of Richard Matheson's 1954 \"I Am Legend\" novel, following 1964's \"The Last Man on Earth\" and 1971's \"The Omega Man\".\n\nThe film was released on December 14, 2007, in the United States and Canada, and opened to the largest ever box office (not adjusted for inflation) for a non-Christmas film released in the U.S. in December. The film was the seventh-highest grossing film of 2007, earning $256 million domestically and $329 million internationally, for a total of $585 million.\n\nIn 2009, a genetically re-engineered measles virus, originally created as a cure for cancer, turns into a lethal strain which kills 90% of those it infects, mutates over 9% into predatory, nocturnal and vampiric mutants, called Darkseekers, who are extremely vulnerable to sunlight, with less than 1% immune. Three years after the outbreak, US Army virologist Lieutenant Colonel Robert Neville (Will Smith) lives an isolated life in the deserted ruins of New York City, unsure if any other uninfected humans are left in the world.\n\nNeville's daily routine includes experimentation on infected rats to find a cure to the virus and venturing through Manhattan to search for food and supplies, as well as waiting each day for any human survivors who have responded to his continuous recorded radio broadcasts, which instruct any uninfected people to meet him at midday at the South Street Seaport.\n\nFlashbacks reveal that his wife (Salli Richardson) and daughter (Willow Smith) died in a helicopter accident during the chaotic evacuation of Manhattan, prior to the military-enforced quarantine of the island in 2009, when Neville stayed behind on the island as military personnel. Neville's only mitigation for his loneliness is his German Shepherd named Samantha, a.k.a. Sam (given to him by his daughter as a puppy to protect him before she died in the helicopter crash), interaction with mannequins he has set up as patrons at a video store, and recordings of old television broadcasts. At night, he barricades himself and Sam inside his heavily fortified Washington Square Park home to hide from the Darkseekers. One day, while waiting for survivors, Sam follows a deer into a dark building. Neville cautiously goes in after her and finds the deer's corpse along with Sam, but the building is infested by a colony of Darkseekers. Both manage to escape unharmed and the attacking Darkseekers are killed by the sunlight.\nNeville finds a promising treatment derived from his own blood, so he sets a snare trap and captures a female Darkseeker from the colony building, while a male Darkseeker (termed \"Alpha Male\" in the script, and played by Dash Mihok) tries to go after them, but is blocked by the sunlight and returns to the shadows. Back in his laboratory in the basement of his house, Neville treats the female without success. The next day, he is ensnared in a trap similar to the one he used to capture the female; by the time he manages to escape, the sun is setting and he is attacked by infected dogs. Neville and Sam manage to eliminate them, but Sam is bitten in the fight. Neville injects her with a strand of his serum, but when she shows signs of infection, Neville is forced to strangle her to death. Heartbroken and driven over the edge of insanity by his dog's death, he ventures out and suicidally attacks a group of Darkseekers the next night. He kills a large number of Darkseekers but the rest overwhelm him and he is nearly killed, but is rescued by a pair of immune survivors, Anna (Alice Braga) and a young boy named Ethan (Charlie Tahan), who have traveled from Maryland after hearing one of his broadcasts. They take the injured Neville back to his home, where Anna explains that they survived the outbreak aboard a Red Cross evacuation ship from São Paulo and are making their way to a survivors' camp in Bethel, Vermont. Neville angrily argues that no such survivors' camp exists.\n\nNeville once again attempts to administer a potential cure to the infected woman in his laboratory, but the next night, a group of Darkseekers, who had followed Anna and Neville back the night before, attacks the house. Neville, Anna, and Ethan retreat into the basement laboratory, sealing themselves in with the female Darkseeker on which Neville has been experimenting. Discovering that the last treatment was successful, Neville tries to assess the situation as the alpha male deliberately rams himself against a glass door to break in. Neville draws a vial of blood from the woman he cured and gives it to Anna, before shutting her and Ethan inside a coal chute in the back of the lab. He then takes a grenade and kills the Darkseekers at the cost of his own life, saving the cure. The next day, before dusk, Anna and Ethan discover that her theory is right as they arrive at the survivors camp in Vermont. They are greeted by military officers and other human survivors before Anna is shown handing the cure to military personnel.\n\nDuring the lab attack, the alpha male makes a butterfly-shaped smear on the glass. Neville realizes that the alpha male is identifying the female which he was experimenting on by her butterfly tattoo and that it wants her back. Neville puts his gun down and returns the female. Neville and the alpha male stare each other down as the former apologizes to the latter. The alpha male accepts it and the Darkseekers leave. Shocked, Neville looks over the pictures of his numerous test subjects and the implications of his research methods begin to dawn on him. Neville, Anna, and Ethan then drive to the survivors' camp in Vermont with the antidote.\n\n\nThe science-fiction horror genre reemerged in the late 1990s. In 1995, Warner Bros. began developing the film project, having owned the rights to Richard Matheson's 1954 novel \"I Am Legend\" since 1970 and having already made the 1971 adaptation \"The Omega Man\". Mark Protosevich was hired to write the script after the studio was impressed with his spec script of \"The Cell\". Protosevich's first draft took place in 2000 in San Francisco, and contained many similarities with the finished film, though the Darkseekers (called 'Hemocytes') were civilized to the point of the creatures in \"The Omega Man\" and Anna was a lone morphine addict, as well as the fact that a Hemocyte character named Christopher joined forces with Neville. Warner Bros. immediately put the film on the fast track, attaching Neal H. Moritz as producer.\n\nActors Tom Cruise, Michael Douglas, and Mel Gibson had been considered to star in the film, using a script by Protosevich and with Ridley Scott as director; however, by June 1997, the studio's preference was for actor Arnold Schwarzenegger. In July, Scott and Schwarzenegger finalized negotiations, with production slated to begin the coming September, using Houston as a stand-in for the film's setting of Los Angeles. Scott had Protosevich replaced by a screenwriter of his own choosing, John Logan, with whom he spent months of intensive work on a number of different drafts. The Scott/Logan version of \"I Am Legend\" was a mix of sci-fi and psychological thriller, without dialogue in the first hour and with a sombre ending. The creatures in Logan's version were similar to the Darkseekers of the finished film in their animalistic, barbaric nature. The studio, fearing its lack of commercial appeal and merchandising potential, began to worry about the liberties they had given Scott – then on a negative streak of box office disappointments – and urged the production team to reconsider the lack of action in the screenplay. After an \"esoteric\" draft by writer Neal Jimenez, Warner Bros. reassigned Protosevich to the project, reluctantly working with Scott again.\n\nIn December 1997, the project was called into question when the projected budget escalated to $108 million due to media and shareholder scrutiny of the studio in financing a big-budget film. Scott rewrote the script in an attempt to reduce the film's budget by $20 million, but in March 1998, the studio canceled the project due to continued budgetary concerns, and quite possibly to the box office disappointment of Scott's last three films, \"\", \"White Squall\", and \"G.I. Jane\". Likewise, Schwarzenegger's recent films at the time (\"Eraser\" and Warner Bros. own \"Batman & Robin\") also underperformed, and the studio's latest experiences with big budget sci-fi movies \"Sphere\" and \"The Postman\" were negative, as well. In August 1998, director Rob Bowman was attached to the project, with Protosevich hired to write a third all-new draft, far more action-oriented than his previous versions, but the director (who reportedly wished for Nicolas Cage to play the lead) moved on to direct \"Reign of Fire\" and the project did not get off the ground.\n\nIn March 2002, Schwarzenegger became the producer of \"I Am Legend\", commencing negotiations with Michael Bay to direct and Will Smith to star in the film. Bay and Smith were attracted to the project based on a redraft that would reduce its budget. However, the project was shelved due to Warner Bros. president Alan F. Horn's dislike of the script. In 2004, Akiva Goldsman was asked by head of production Jeff Robinov to produce the film. In September 2005, director Francis Lawrence signed on to helm the project, with production slated to begin in 2006. Guillermo del Toro was originally approached to direct by Smith, but turned it down to direct \"\". Lawrence, whose film \"Constantine\" was produced by Goldsman, was fascinated by empty urban environments. He said, \"Something's always really excited me about that... to have experienced that much loss, to be without people or any kind of social interaction for that long.\"\n\nGoldsman took on the project as he admired the second \"I Am Legend\" film adaptation, \"The Omega Man\". A rewrite was done to distance the project from the other zombie films inspired by the novel, as well as from the recently released \"28 Days Later,\" although Goldsman was inspired by the scenes of a deserted London in the British horror film to create the scenes of a deserted New York City. A 40-page scene-by-scene outline of the film was developed by May 2006. When delays occurred on Smith's film \"Hancock\", which was scheduled for 2007, it was proposed to switch the actor's films. This meant filming would have to begin in 16 weeks: production was given a green light, using Goldsman's script and the outline. Elements from Protosevich's script were introduced, while the crew consulted with experts on infectious diseases and solitary confinement. Rewrites continued throughout filming, because of Smith's improvisational skills and Lawrence's preference to keep various scenes silent. The director had watched Jane Campion's film \"The Piano\" with a low volume so as to not disturb his newborn son, and realized that silence could be very effective cinema.\n\nWill Smith signed on to play Robert Neville in April 2006. He said he took on \"I Am Legend\" because he felt it could be like \"\"Gladiator\" [or] \"Forrest Gump\"—these are movies with wonderful, audience-pleasing elements, but also uncompromised artistic value. [This] always felt like it had those possibilities to me.\" The actor found Neville to be his toughest acting challenge since portraying Muhammad Ali in \"Ali\" (2001). He said that \"when you're on your own, it is kind of hard to find conflict.\" The film's dark tone and exploration of whether Neville has gone insane during his isolation meant Smith had to restrain himself from falling into a humorous routine during takes. To prepare for his role, Smith visited the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Georgia. He also met with a person who had been in solitary confinement and a former prisoner of war. Smith compared Neville to Job, who lost his children, livelihood, and health. Like the Book of Job, \"I Am Legend\" studies the questions, \"Can he find a reason to continue? Can he find the hope or desire to excel and advance in life? Or does the death of everything around him create imminent death for himself?\" He also cited an influence in Tom Hanks' performance in \"Cast Away\" (2000).\n\nAbbey and Kona, both three-year-old German Shepherd dogs, played Neville's dog Sam. The rest of the supporting cast consists of Salli Richardson as Zoe, Robert's wife, and Alice Braga as a survivor named Anna. Willow Smith, Will Smith's daughter, makes her film debut as Marley, Neville's daughter. Emma Thompson has an uncredited role as Dr. Alice Krippin, who appears on television explaining her vaccine for cancer that mutates into the virus. Singer Mike Patton provided the guttural screams of the infected \"hemocytes\", and Dash Mihok provided the character animation for the infected \"alpha male\". Several filler characters with uncredited roles were in old news broadcasts and flashbacks, such as the unnamed President's voice (Pat Fraley), and the cast of \"The Today Show\".\n\nAkiva Goldsman decided to move the story from Los Angeles to New York City to take advantage of locations that would more easily show emptiness. Goldsman explained, \"L.A. looks empty at three o'clock in the afternoon, [but] New York is never empty . . . it was a much more interesting way of showing the windswept emptiness of the world.\" Warner Bros. initially rejected this idea because of the logistics, but Francis Lawrence was determined to shoot on location, to give the film a natural feel that would benefit from not shooting on soundstages. Lawrence went to the city with a camcorder, and filmed areas filled with crowds. Then, a special effects test was conducted to remove all those people. The test had a powerful effect on studio executives. Michael Tadross convinced authorities to close busy areas such as the Grand Central Terminal viaduct, several blocks of Fifth Avenue, and Washington Square Park. The film was shot primarily in the anamorphic format, with flashback scenes shot in Super 35.\n\nFilming began on September 23, 2006. The Marcy Avenue Armory in Williamsburg was used for the interior of Neville's home, while Greenwich Village was used for the exterior. Other locations include the Tribeca section of lower Manhattan, the aircraft carrier \"Intrepid\", the Kingsbridge Armory in the Bronx, and St. Patrick's Cathedral. Weeds were imported from Florida and were strewn across locations to make the city look like it had been overgrown with them. The closure of major streets was controversial with New Yorkers. Will Smith said, \"I don't think anyone's going to be able to do that in New York again anytime soon. People were not happy. That's the most middle fingers I've ever gotten in my career.\"\n\nA bridge scene was filmed for six consecutive nights in January on the Brooklyn Bridge to serve as a flashback scene in which New York's citizens evacuate the city. Shooting the scene consumed $5 million of the film's reported $150 million budget, which was likely the most expensive shoot in the city to date. The scene, which had to meet requirements from 14 government agencies, involved 250 crew members and 1,000 extras, including 160 National Guard members. Also present were several Humvees, three Strykers, a cutter, a utility boat, and two response boat small craft, as well as other vehicles including taxis, police cars, fire trucks, and ambulances. Filming concluded on March 31, 2007. Computer-generated imagery (CGI) was used to depict the main spans of the Brooklyn Bridge and the Manhattan Bridge collapsing as missiles from passing military jets blew them up to quarantine Manhattan island.\n\nReshoots were conducted around November 2007. Lawrence noted, \"We weren't seeing fully rendered shots until about a month ago. The movie starts to take on a whole other life. It's not until later that you can judge a movie as a whole and go, 'Huh, maybe we should shoot this little piece in the middle, or tweak this a little bit.' It just so happened that our re-shoots revolved around the end of the movie.\"\n\nA week into filming, Francis felt the infected (referred to as \"Darkseekers\" or \"hemocytes\" in the script), who were being portrayed by actors wearing prosthetics, were not convincing. His decision to use CGI resulted in an increased budget and extended post-production, although the end results were not always well received. The concept behind the infected was that their adrenal glands were open all of the time and Lawrence explained, \"They needed to have an abandon in their performance that you just can't get out of people in the middle of the night when they're barefoot. And their metabolisms are really spiked, so they're constantly hyperventilating, which you can't really get actors to do for a long time or they pass out.\" The actors remained on set to provide motion capture. \"The film's producers and sound people wanted the creatures in the movie to sound somewhat human, but not the standard\", so Mike Patton, lead singer of Faith No More, was engaged to provide the screams and howls of the infected.\n\nIn addition, CGI was used for the lions and deer in the film, and to erase pedestrians in shots of New York. Workers visible in windows, spectators, and moving cars in the distance were all removed. In his vision of an empty New York, Lawrence cited John Ford as his influence: \"We didn't want to make an apocalyptic movie where the landscape felt apocalyptic. A lot of the movie takes place on a beautiful day. There's something magical about the empty city as opposed to dark and scary that was the ideal that the cast and crew wanted.\"\n\n\"I Am Legend\" was originally slated for a November 21, 2007, release in the United States and Canada, but was delayed to December 14. The film opened on December 26, 2007, in the United Kingdom, and Ireland, having been originally scheduled for January 4, 2008.\n\nIn December 2007, China temporarily suspended the release of all American films in the country, which is believed to have delayed the release of \"I Am Legend\". Will Smith spoke to the chairman of China Film Group about securing a release date, later explaining, \"We struggled very, very hard to try to get it to work out, but there are only a certain amount of foreign films that are allowed in.\"\n\nPremieres were held in Tokyo, New York, and London. At the London premiere in Leicester Square, British comedian and actor Neg Dupree was arrested after pushing his way onto the red carpet and running around shouting \"I am Negend!\". The stunt was part of his \"Neg's Urban Sports\" section of comedy game show \"Balls of Steel\".\n\nThe film's teaser was attached to the screenings of \"Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix\". And a tie-in comic from DC Comics and Vertigo Comics has been created, \"I Am Legend: Awakening\". The project draws upon collaboration from Bill Sienkiewicz, screenwriter Mark Protosevich, and author Orson Scott Card. The son of the original book's author, Richard Christian Matheson, also collaborated on the project. The project will advance from the comic to an online format in which animated featurettes (created by the team from Broken Saints) will be shown on the official website.\n\nIn October 2007, Warner Bros. Pictures, in conjunction with the Electric Sheep Company, launched the online multiplayer game \"I Am Legend: Survival\" in the virtual world \"Second Life\". The game is the largest launched in the virtual world in support of a film release, permitting people to play against each other as the infected or the uninfected across a replicated of New York City. The studio also hired the ad agency Crew Creative to develop a website that would be specifically viewable on the iPhone.\n\n\"I Am Legend\" grossed $77,211,321 on its opening weekend in 3,606 theaters, averaging $21,412 per venue, and placing it at the top of the box office. This set a record for highest-grossing opening for a film for December. The film grossed $256,393,010 in North America and a total of $585,349,010 worldwide. The film was the sixth-highest grossing film of 2007 in North America, and as of April 2014, it remained among the top 100 all-time highest-grossing films both domestically and worldwide (unadjusted for ticket price inflation).\n\nThe film was released on DVD on March 18, 2008, in two editions: a one-disc release, including the movie with four animated comics (\"Death As a Gift\", \"Isolation\", \"Sacrificing the Few for the Many\", and \"Shelter\"), and other DVD-ROM features, and a two-disc special edition that includes all these extras, an alternative theatrical version of the movie with an alternate ending, and a digital copy of the film. On the high-definition end, the movie has been released on the Blu-ray Disc format and HD DVD format along with the DVD release, with the HD-DVD version being released later on April 8, 2008. Both HD releases include all the features available in the two-disc DVD edition. A three-disk Ultimate Collector's Edition was also released on December 9, 2008.\n\nThe film has sold 7.04 million DVDs and earned $126.2 million in revenue, making it the sixth-best-selling DVD of 2008. However, Warner Bros. was reportedly \"a little disappointed\" with the film's performance on the DVD market.\n\nThe soundtrack for \"I Am Legend\" was released on January 15, 2008, under the record label Varèse Sarabande. The music was composed by James Newton Howard. This Also features Bob Marley songs Redemption Song,Three Little Birds and I Shot The Sheriff\n\nOn review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes the film had an approval rating of 69% based on 211 reviews, with an average rating of 6.8/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"\"I Am Legend\" overcomes questionable special effects and succeeds largely on the strength of Will Smith's mesmerizing performance.\" On Metacritic, which assigns a rating to reviews, the film has an average score of 65 out of 100, based on 37 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\nA. O. Scott wrote that Will Smith gave a \"graceful and effortless performance\" and also noted the \"third-act collapse\". He felt that the movie \"does ponder some pretty deep questions about the collapse and persistence of human civilization\". Dana Stevens of \"Slate\" wrote that the movie lost its way around the hour mark, noting that \"the Infected just aren't that scary.\" NPR critic Bob Mondello noted the film's subtext concerning global terrorism and that this aspect made the film fit in perfectly with other, more direct cinematic explorations of the subject. Richard Roeper gave the film a positive review on the television program \"At the Movies with Ebert & Roeper\", commending Will Smith as being in \"prime form\", also saying there are \"some amazing sequences\" and that there was \"a pretty heavy screenplay for an action film.\" The film has been criticized for diverging from Matheson's novel, especially in its portrayal of a specifically Christian theme. Much of the negative criticism concerned the film's third act, with some critics favoring the alternative ending in the DVD release. Doug Walker said the alternate ending was \"powerful, thought provoking, and challenging\", and the theatrical ending was \"a betrayal\" and \"castration\" of both the film's tone and of what made the original story so impactful.\n\n\"Popular Mechanics\" published an article on December 14, 2007, addressing some of the scientific issues raised by the film:\n\n\nThe magazine solicited reactions from Alan Weisman, author of \"The World Without Us\", virologist W. Ian Lipkin, MD, and Michel Bruneau, PhD, comparing their predictions with the film's depictions. The article raised the most questions regarding the virus' mutation and the medical results, and pointed out that a suspension bridge like the Brooklyn Bridge would likely completely collapse rather than losing only its middle span. Neville's method of producing power using gasoline-powered generators seemed the most credible: \"This part of the tale is possible, if not entirely likely,\" \"Popular Mechanics\" editor Roy Berendsohn says.\n\nPhilosopher Slavoj Zizek criticized the film politically as being the most regressive adaptation from the novel. He said that while the original novel had a progressive multicultural message where Neville became a \"legend\" to the new creatures and is subsequently killed by them (much like vampires were legends to humans), the 2007 film finds a cure for the Darkseekers and it is delivered by a survivor through apparent divine intervention. According to Zizek, this misses the original message and \"openly opt[s] for religious fundamentalism.\"\n\n\"I Am Legend\" earned four nominations for the Visual Effects Society awards, and was also nominated for Outstanding Performance by a Stunt Ensemble at the Screen Actors Guild Awards, Outstanding Film and Actor at the Image Awards, and Best Sound at the Satellite Awards. In June 2008, Will Smith won a Saturn Award for Best Actor.\nWill Smith also won the MTV Movie Awards for Best Male Performance.\n\nDirector Francis Lawrence said in 2008 that there would be a prequel and that Will Smith would be reprising his role. The plot of the film would reveal what happened to Neville before the infected took over New York. D. B. Weiss was hired to write the script, while Lawrence was in negotiations to return as director on the contingent that the story was interesting enough. Smith later discussed the premise, which would have his character and a team going from New York City to Washington, D.C., as they made their last stand against those infected with the virus. The film would again explore the premise of what it is like to be alone. Lawrence stated, \"... the tough thing is, how do we do that again and in a different way?\" In May 2011, Francis Lawrence stated that the prequel was no longer in development saying, \"I don't think that's ever going to happen.\"\n\nIn 2012, Warner Bros. announced that negotiations had been made to produce another installment, with the intention of having Will Smith reprise his role. In April 2014, the studio attained a script entitled \"A Garden at the End of the World\", described as a post-apocalyptic variation of \"The Searchers\". Studio executives found so many similarities to \"I Am Legend\" in the screenplay, they had the writer Gary Graham rewrite it so it could serve as the next film. Serving as a reboot of the story, the studio hopes to create a franchise of films. Will Smith, who is known for his reluctance to appear in sequels, has not commented on whether he will appear or not.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12636212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12636212", "title": "I Hate This", "text": "I Hate This\n\nI Hate This (a play without the baby) is a solo performance by David Hansen detailing his experiences as the father of a stillborn child.\n\nFirst produced at Cleveland Public Theatre in 2003, this award winning performance has been presented at the Minnesota Fringe Festival and the New York Fringe Festival, as well as for numerous bereavement organisations in the United States and in Great Britain, and as a training event at hospitals for midwives, nurses and doctors. The production was revived by the playwright at Cleveland Public Theater in April, 2011.\n\nIn October 2014 the play was first performed in its entirety by a different actor than David Hansen. Freerange Theatre Company produced \"I Hate This\" at The Lowry Studio Theatre in Manchester, England. The role of David was played by John Dayton, directed by Hugo Chandor. In November 2015 \"I Hate This\" was produced at Hartwick College in Oneonta, New York in a fully realized production directed, designed and performed by Brian Chandler Cook.\n\nAt their thirty-week prenatal appointment, the playwright and his wife discover their first child has died due to preeclampsia. The events of the play cover the thirty-six hours between that revelation and the birth of their son, and also events during the year that leads up to this child's first birthday, all from the point of view of the father. In twenty-seven short scenes, the narrator performs a dozen characters including members of his family, friends, and a number of health care professionals and counselors.\n\"By elucidating such mundane moments as his futile attempts to be removed from a baby-food company mailing list, Hansen gives us a glimpse into day-to-day life after a baby dies.\"\n- Laura Seftel, \"Grief Unseen\"\n\nNew York Times critic Jason Zinoman called \"I Hate This\", \"A well-made and often affecting drama.\" Deb Hoodiman, writing for nytheatre.com called the production, \"Powerful, sad and enjoyable,\" and Kate Morris writing for The Skinny (UK) called the play, \"sincere and powerful.\"\n\nNortheast Ohio NPR affiliate WCPN 90.3 FM created a radio adaptation of \"I Hate This\" which was first broadcast on November 25, 2005. For this adaptation, David Hansen provided the voice for his own character, with all other characters and the narrator voiced by notable Cleveland-area performers including Dorothy and Reuben Silver, Nina Domingue, Betsy Hogg and Nick Koesters. The program was produced by Hansen, Dave DeOreo, and Al Dahlhausen.\n\nThis radio drama adaptation of \"I Hate This\" received awards from the Ohio Society for Professional Journalists Awards (Best Radio Documentary, First Place, 2006) and the WBEZ Third Coast International Audio Festival (Finalist, 2007).\n\n"}
{"id": "3352789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3352789", "title": "Jack Upland", "text": "Jack Upland\n\nJack Upland or Jack up Lande (c. 1389–96?) is a polemical, probably Lollard, literary work which can be seen as a \"sequel\" to \"Piers Plowman\", with Antichrist attacking Christians through corrupt confession. Jack asks a \"flattering friar\" (\"cf.\" \"Piers Plowman\"s \"Friar Flatterer\") nearly seventy questions attacking the mendicant orders and exposing their distance from scriptural truth.\n\nTwo extant works respond to Jack's questions: \"Responsiones ad Questiones LXV\" (before 1396) and \"Friar Daw's Reply\" (Digby 41, c. 1420). The latter text blasts John Wycliffe as one of history's major heretics. Responding to Friar Daw, an unknown author wrote \"Upland's Rejoinder\", which survives in Digby 41, in the margins surrounding \"Friar Daw's Reply\". \"Upland's Rejoinder\" intensifies the level of invective: Daw is said to recruit the young sons of true-living plowmen to become (paradoxically) \"worldly beggars,\" apostates against true rule, and sodomites.\n\n\"Jack Upland\" was printed by itself in an octavo edition c. 1536–40 by John Gough (STC 5098). John Foxe's \"Acts and Monuments\" (1563, 1570) reprinted \"Jack Upland\" and attributed it to Geoffrey Chaucer. Thomas Speght's 1602 edition of Chaucer's \"Works\" (STC 5080) included \"Jack Upland\".\n\n"}
{"id": "43557946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43557946", "title": "Jane Hunter (scientist)", "text": "Jane Hunter (scientist)\n\nProfessor Jane Hunter is the Director of University of Queensland's e-Research Lab and Chair of the Australian Academy of Science's National Committee for Data in Science; Vice-President of the National Executive Committee for Digital Humanities; and Member of Scientific Committee of the ICSU World Data System. E-research has emerged through the exponential expansion of information technologies. New online tools, networks, data capture, management and visualisation techniques are needed to enhance collaboration and data sharing between researchers who need access to very large data collections, high-performance analysis and modelling particularly across disciplines.\n\nHer research projects cover a wide range of topics and include the OzTrack Project looking at how to store, analyse and visualise animal tracking data; The Twentieth Century in Paint a multidisciplinary project to inform the preservation of modern art; HuNI - Humanities Networked Infrastructure applying new data tools to integrate Australia's most significant cultural datasets for humanities researchers. In speaking of a joint project on Queensland's waterways, Professor Hunter notes, 'There is a massive amount of monitoring data being collected, and Health-e-Waterways provides a high-tech approach to turning that data into meaningful information\".\n\n"}
{"id": "415567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=415567", "title": "Jim Lehrer", "text": "Jim Lehrer\n\nJames Charles \"Jim\" Lehrer (; born May 19, 1934) is an American journalist and a novelist.\n\nLehrer is the former Executive Editor and a former News Anchor for the \"PBS NewsHour\" on PBS, and is known for his role as a Debate Moderator in U.S. Presidential Election campaigns. He is an author of numerous fiction and non-fiction books that draw upon his experience as a newsman, along with his interests in history and politics.\n\nLehrer was born in Wichita, Kansas—the son of Lois Catherine (née Chapman), a bank clerk; and Harry Frederick Lehrer, a bus station manager. He attended middle school in Beaumont, Texas, and graduated from Thomas Jefferson High School (San Antonio, TX) where he was a sports editor for the \"Jefferson Declaration\". He graduated with an A.A. from Victoria College in Texas, and a B.J. from the Missouri School of Journalism at the University of Missouri in 1956.\n\nAfter graduation from college, Lehrer joined the United States Marine Corps and attributes his service and travels with helping him to look past himself and feel a connection to the world that he would not have otherwise experienced.\n\nIn 1959, Lehrer began his career in journalism at \"The Dallas Morning News\" in Texas. Later, he worked as a Reporter for the \"Dallas Times-Herald\", where he covered the assassination of John F. Kennedy in 1963. There, he was a Political Columnist for several years, and in 1968 he became the City Editor.\n\nLehrer began his television career at KERA-TV in Dallas, Texas, as the Executive Director of Public Affairs, an On-air Host, and Editor of a nightly news program. He moved to PBS in Washington, D.C., to become the Public Affairs Coordinator, a member of Journalism Advisory Board, and a Fellow at the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB). He worked as a Correspondent for the National Public Affairs Center for Television (NPACT) where he met Robert MacNeil. In 1973, they covered the Senate Watergate hearings and the revelation of the Watergate Tapes broadcast, live on PBS. Lehrer covered the House Judiciary Committee's impeachment inquiry of President Richard Nixon.\n\nIn October 1975, Lehrer became the Washington Correspondent for the \"Robert MacNeil Report\" on Thirteen/WNET New York. Two months later on December 1, 1975, he was promoted to co-anchor, and the program was accordingly renamed \"The MacNeil/Lehrer Report\". In September 1983, Lehrer and MacNeil relaunched their show as \"The MacNeil/Lehrer NewsHour\" which, after MacNeil's departure in 1995, was renamed \"The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer\", and in 2009 became the \"PBS NewsHour\".\n\nLehrer underwent a heart valve surgery in April 2008, and, while he recuperated, Ray Suarez anchored in his stead until his return on June 26, 2008.\n\nOn June 6, 2011, Lehrer stepped down as anchor of the \"PBS NewsHour\"; however, he continued to moderate the Friday news analysis segments, and continued to be involved with the show's production company, MacNeil/Lehrer Productions.\n\nLehrer's has received several awards and honors throughout his career in journalism, including several Emmys; the George Foster Peabody Broadcast Award; a William Allen White Foundation Award for Journalistic Merit; and the University of Missouri School of Journalism's Medal of Honor. In 2004, he was awarded an honorary Doctor of Journalism degree by McDaniel College.\n\nLehrer has been involved in several U.S. Presidential Debate-related projects, including the \"Debating Our Destiny\" Documentaries in 2000 and 2008, that feature excerpts of exclusive interviews with many of the Presidential and Vice Presidential candidates since 1976. Nicknamed \"The Dean of Moderators\" by Bernard Shaw, formerly of CNN, Lehrer has moderated 12 Presidential Debates.\n\nLehrer hosted the first U.S. Presidential Debate for the 2012 U.S. Presidential general election. He originally had sworn off moderating any debates after 2008; however, the Commission on Presidential Debates persisted, and he accepted as he was interested in the new format. The debate was held at the University of Denver, Denver, Colorado, and covered domestic policy issues. Coming out of semi-retirement to moderate his 12th Presidential Debate, while he was criticized on social media and in the press for his lack of control and open-ended questions, he was praised for letting the candidates have some control in the debate on their own terms.\n\nLehrer is married to Kate Lehrer, a novelist. They have three daughters and six grandchildren. His father was a bus driver, who briefly operated a bus company. Lehrer is an avid bus enthusiast, a hobbyist, and a collector of bus memorabilia—including depot signs, driver caps, and antique toy buses. As a college student in the 1950s, he worked as a Trailways Ticket Agent in Victoria, Texas. He is a supporter of the Pacific Bus Museum in Williams, California, and the Museum of Bus Transportation in Hershey, Pennsylvania.\n\nLehrer is a prolific writer and has authored numerous novels, as well as having penned several plays, screenplays, and three personal memoirs. His book, \"Top Down\", is a novel based on the events surrounding the Kennedy assassination. His most recent play, \"Bell\", was produced by the National Geographic Society as part of their 125th anniversary celebration.\n\n\nNovels (One-Eyed Mack Series)\n\nNovels (Charlie Henderson Series)\n\nNovels (Stand-alone)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24476510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24476510", "title": "Journals of Ayn Rand", "text": "Journals of Ayn Rand\n\nJournals of Ayn Rand is a book derived from the private journals of novelist and philosopher Ayn Rand. Edited by David Harriman with the approval of Rand's estate, it was published in 1997, 15 years after her death. Some reviewers considered it an interesting source of information for readers with an interest in Rand, but several scholars criticized Harriman's editing as being too heavy-handed and insufficiently acknowledged in the published text.\n\nWhen Rand died in 1982, her private papers were left to her student and heir Leonard Peikoff. Starting in 1983, Peikoff began authorizing the publication of excerpts from her journals and other unpublished writings. From 1983 to 1994, several such excerpts appeared in \"The Objectivist Forum\" and \"The Intellectual Activist\". David Harriman, a physicist and a speaker for the Ayn Rand Institute, edited Rand's journals for publication in book form. The hardcover edition of the fully edited \"Journals of Ayn Rand\" was published by Dutton in 1997. A paperback edition was published by Plume in 1999.\n\nIn a foreword for the book, Peikoff describes Rand's journals, with a few exceptions, as being \"written for herself, for her own clarity\" and not intended for publication. A preface by Harriman describes the material as being about three-quarters of Rand's \"\"working\" journals\", collected from \"numerous boxes of papers she left behind at her death\". He describes his editing as consisting of \"selection, organization, line editing, and insertion of explanatory comments.\" He says that \"not a great deal of line editing was required\", and that his editorial insertions and \"omissions of passages\" are marked in the published text.\n\nThe majority of the book consists of Rand's edited journals, divided into five major sections. The first section, titled \"Early Projects\" includes scenarios for silent movies that Rand developed when she first moved to Hollywood in the 1920s. There are also notes and outlines for her first published novel, \"We the Living\", and for another early novel that was never completed. Entries in an early \"philosophic journal\" from April and May 1934, are described by Rand as \"the vague beginnings of an amateur philosopher.\"\n\nThe second section, titled \"The Fountainhead\", consists of material related to her novel of that name. She took extensive notes from her research on architecture, and created profiles for each character, often based on information about real people. There are several outlines of the plot and notes she made while the novel was being written.\n\nThe third section, titled \"Transition Between Novels\", includes draft material for three unfinished projects. The first was a non-fiction book to be called \"The Moral Basis of Individualism\". The second was a movie about the development of the atomic bomb, tentatively titled \"Top Secret\". The third was an essay called \"To All Innocent Fifth Columnists\", to be circulated by a proposed organization of conservative intellectuals that never formed. This section also reprints a transcript of Rand's 1949 testimony before the House Un-American Activities Committee, along with her own notes about the committee's efforts to investigate Communism.\n\nThe fourth section, \"Atlas Shrugged\", has her notes and outlines for her final novel. In addition to planning for characters and plot points, her notes include research on the railroad and steel industries, and thoughts on various philosophical issues to be addressed in the novel.\n\nThe fifth and final section, \"Final Years\", covers the years 1955 to 1977. It includes notes about \"psycho-epistemology\" and ideas for two possible books. One was a non-fiction book about Rand's philosophy of Objectivism. The other was a novel to be titled \"To Lorne Dieterling\".\n\nObjectivist philosopher David Kelley described the material in Rand's journals as \"contain[ing] a number of passages that explain key points in her philosophy more fully and clearly than anything she published.\" Kelley called the book \"a treasure\" and said Harriman's editing was \"skillful\", although he criticized Harriman for not providing more complete notes on cases where Rand had later changed her positions from those documented in the journal entries. Writing for the libertarian magazine \"Reason\", Walter Olson said the book was \"a less-than-ideal place to start for those not already closely familiar with the Russian-born author's work.\" However, he said it did \"furnish a deep popcorn bowl of sheer fan value\" for those interested in Rand. A brief review in \"The Washington Post\" called it a \"valuable sourcebook\" for those interested in Rand.\n\nIn \"The New York Times Book Review\", conservative writer David Brooks offered his \"harsh assessment\" that the insights Rand had about the dangers of collectivism were \"made absurd only by the philosophy she piled on top of it.\" For aspiring writers, he said, \"The journals' central lesson is that one should never underestimate the importance of pomposity.\" This review produced responses in the form of a short article in \"Liberty\" calling it an \"uninformed hatchet job\" and a letter from philosopher Allan Gotthelf calling it \"the usual sneers\".\n\nIn a bibliography of Rand's works, Mimi Reisel Gladstein said the book \"illustrates Rand’s dedication to her craft and her meticulous preparation for writing.\" Both Brooks and Gladstein indicated that the term 'journals' was misleading because the material focuses on Rand's works and ideas, instead of more personal thoughts.\n\nDescribing Rand as a rigorous but misanthropic thinker, \"Booklist\" said her journals would \"be of vital interest to many\". In contrast, \"Publishers Weekly\" said it was of interest only for those who were \"lovers and loathers\" of Rand, describing the book as being \"As intriguing yet sometimes numbing as her fiction\". \"\" recommended the book for academic libraries, saying it would be welcomed by \"Rand aficionados\". Reviews of the book were also published in \"Kirkus Reviews\" and the \"Los Angeles Times\".\n\nIn a review of the book in \"Liberty\" magazine, Stephen Cox questioned the editorial choices made by Harriman. He said that Harriman tried \"to steer a middle course\" between casual and scholarly readers of Rand's work, but he wondered \"where should the line be drawn?\" He cited examples given by Harriman as the types of passages omitted, saying some of them were \"precisely the kind of note that scholars want to see\". Cox also said that Harriman's editing for grammar and \"wordiness\" was insufficiently explained, which acted \"to undermine the objective authority of the text.\"\n\nIn an article in the next issue of \"Liberty\", Rand scholar Chris Matthew Sciabarra raised additional concerns about how Harriman had edited the material. Sciabarra compared a passage that had been published previously in \"The Intellectual Activist\" with the corresponding passage in the book. He found differences between the two, including the omission of a reference to Albert Jay Nock in the book version. He quoted Harriman's preface about how changes from the original were supposed to be noted in the text, and said, \"When such editorial changes are not made explicit, when not even ellipsis points are provided to indicate missing text, doubt is cast unnecessarily on the volume's authenticity.\" Citing Sciabarra's essay, Gladstein gave the book as an example of publishing efforts by Rand's estate that \"have not always exhibited a confidence-inspiring level of academic rigor.\" In his book \"The Ayn Rand Cult\", journalist Jeff Walker suggested the published journals might be \"completely unreliable and ... may have been thoroughly twisted in the interests of the present-day cult\".\n\nWhile writing a biography of Rand, historian Jennifer Burns worked with the original journals in the Ayn Rand Archives, and compared the material there with published versions. She said Rand's journals had been edited in ways that are \"significant and problematic.\" Burns said Harriman's changes \"significantly alter Rand's meaning\" in a number of cases, transforming the tentative and evolving ideas in Rand's notes into \"a slick manufactured world in which all her ideas are definite, well formulated, and clear.\" In an entry on her blog describing her experiences at the archives, Burns said the staff of the archives \"heartily disapproved\" of how the book was edited.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37408", "title": "Kingston, Jamaica", "text": "Kingston, Jamaica\n\nKingston is the capital and largest city of Jamaica, located on the southeastern coast of the island. It faces a natural harbour protected by the Palisadoes, a long sand spit which connects the town of Port Royal and the Norman Manley International Airport to the rest of the island. In the Americas, Kingston is the largest predominantly English-speaking city south of the United States.\n\nThe local government bodies of the parishes of Kingston and St. Andrew were amalgamated by the Kingston and St. Andrew Corporation Act of 1923, to form the Kingston and St. Andrew Corporation (KSAC). Greater Kingston, or the \"Corporate Area\" refers to those areas under the KSAC; however, it does not solely refer to Kingston Parish, which only consists of the old downtown and Port Royal. Kingston Parish had a population of 96,052, and St. Andrew Parish had a population of 555,828 in 2001. Kingston is only bordered by Saint Andrew to the east, west and north. The geographical border for the parish of Kingston encompasses the following communities, Tivoli Gardens, Denham Town, Rae Town, Kingston Gardens, National Heroes Park, Bournemouth Gardens, Norman Gardens, Rennock Lodge, Springfield and Port Royal, along with portions of Rollington Town, Franklyn Town and Allman Town.\n\nThe city proper is bounded by Six Miles to the west, Stony Hill to the north, Papine to the northeast and Harbour View to the east, communities in urban and suburban Saint Andrew. Communities in rural St. Andrew such as Gordon Town, Mavis Bank, Lawrence Tavern, Mt. Airy and Bull Bay would not be described as being in Kingston city.\n\nTwo parts make up the central area of Kingston: the historic Downtown, and New Kingston. Both are served by Norman Manley International Airport and also by the smaller and primarily domestic Tinson Pen Aerodrome.\n\nKingston was founded in July 1692 as a place for survivors of the 1692 earthquake that destroyed Port Royal. Before the earthquake, Kingston’s functions were purely agricultural. The earthquake survivors set up a camp on the sea front. Approximately two thousand people died due to mosquito-borne diseases. Initially the people lived in a tented camp on Colonel Barry's \"Hog Crawle\". The town did not begin to grow until after the further destruction of Port Royal by fire in 1703. Surveyor John Goffe drew up a plan for the town based on a grid bounded by North, East, West and Harbour Streets. The new grid system of the town was designed to facilitate commerce, particularly the system of main thoroughfares across which allowed transportation between the port and plantations farther inland. By 1716 it had become the largest town and the centre of trade for Jamaica.\nThe government sold land to people with the regulation that they purchase no more than the amount of the land that they owned in Port Royal, and only land on the sea front. Gradually wealthy merchants began to move their residences from above their businesses to the farm lands north on the plains of Liguanea.\n\nThe first free school, Wolmers's, was founded in 1729 and there was a theatre, first on Harbour Street and then moved in 1774 to North Parade. Both are still in existence. In 1755 the governor, Sir Charles Knowles, had decided to transfer the government offices from Spanish Town to Kingston. It was thought by some to be an unsuitable location for the Assembly in proximity to the moral distractions of Kingston, and the next governor rescinded the Act. However, by 1780 the population of Kingston was 11,000, and the merchants began lobbying for the administrative capital to be transferred from Spanish Town, which was by then eclipsed by the commercial activity in Kingston.\n\nBy the end of the 18th century, the city contained more than 3,000 brick buildings. The harbour fostered trade, and played part in several naval wars of the 18th century. Kingston took over the functions of Spanish Town (the capital at the time). These functions included agriculture, commercial, processing and a main transport hub to and from Kingston and other sections of the island.\n\nThe government passed an act to transfer the government offices to Kingston from Spanish Town, which occurred in 1872. It kept this status when the island was granted independence in 1962.\n\nIn 1907, 800 people died in another earthquake known as the 1907 Kingston earthquake, destroying nearly all the historical buildings south of Parade in the city. That was when a restriction of no more than was instituted on buildings in the city centre. These three-story-high buildings were built with reinforced concrete. Construction on King Street in the city was the first area to breach this building code.\n\nDuring the 1930s, island-wide riots led to the development of trade unions and political parties to represent workers.\n\nThe city became home to the Mona campus of the University of the West Indies founded in 1948, with 24 medical students.\n\nNot until the 1960s did major change occur in the development of Kingston’s city centre. The international attention of reggae music at that time coincided with the expansion and development of of the Kingston city centre waterfront area. These developments led to an influx of shops and offices, and the development of a new financial centre: New Kingston, which replaced the Knutsford Racetrack. Multi-story buildings and boulevards were placed within that section.\n\nIn 1966 Kingston was the host city to the Commonwealth Games.\n\nThe western section of the city was not the focus of development, and that area proved to be politically tense. The 1970s saw deteriorating economic conditions that led to recurrent violence and a decline in tourism which later affected the island.\n\nIn the 1980 general elections, the democratic socialist People's National Party (PNP) government was voted out, and subsequent governments have been more market-oriented. Within a global urban era, the 1990s saw that Kingston has made efforts to modernise and develop its city structure and functions. Various organisations such as the Kingston Restoration Company, the Urban Development Corporation (UDC), the Port Authority of Jamaica and the Port Royal Development Company, among others sought to develop the urban structure of the city.\n\nThe majority of the population of Kingston is of African descent. Large minority ethnic groups include East Indians and Chinese, who came to the country as indentured servants in the late 19th century. The Chinese occupy important roles in Jamaica's economy especially in the retail markets in Downtown Kingston and the wider metropolitan area. There is also a minority of Europeans, mostly descending from immigrants from Germany and Great Britain. Syrians and Lebanese form one of the most influential ethnic groups in not only Kingston, but the entire island. Though a minority ethnic group, the Lebanese were able to give Jamaica one of its prime ministers, Edward Philip George Seaga. There is a strong undercurrent of bias based on skin color as darker skinned Jamaicans are usually at the very bottom of the socio-economic ladder; a phenomenon evidenced by the disproportionate representation of foreigners and mixed-race individuals in lucrative private sector and government positions. Multi-racial Jamaicans continue to form the second largest racial group, and there is also a small Jewish population in the city.\n\nThere is a wide variety of Christian churches in the city. Most are Protestant, a legacy of British colonisation of the island. The chief denominations are Church of God, Baptist, Anglican, Methodist, Roman Catholic, Seventh-day Adventist and Pentecostal. \n\nThere is a strong Roman Catholic community, with the Holy Trinity Cathedral which is the seat of metropolitan archbishop and was consecrated in 1911, as well a few Catholic schools and institutions such as the Immaculate Conception High School, St Francis Primary and Infant School, Holy Childhood High School which was founded and is owned by the Franciscan Missionary Sisters of the Immaculate Heart of Mary of our Lady of Perpetual Help (FMS) in Jamaica.\n\nAfro-Christian syncretic religions such as the Rastafari movement also have a significant following.\n\nThe Shaare Shalom Synagogue serves Kingston's Jewish population. The city also has communities of Buddhists and Muslims. The Islamic Council of Jamaica and the Islamic Education and Dawah Centre are both located in Kingston. There are three units of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the city.\n\nKingston plays a central role in Jamaica's economy. The vast majority of economic activity takes place within Kingston, and as most government ministries are located in the city, it is a key force in legislation in regards to Jamaica's finances. The high population density of the capital city means that the majority of monetary transactions occur in Kingston - stimulating much of Jamaica's local economy. The city is also home to the highest number of schools, hospitals and universities anywhere in Jamaica. Kingston is also the island's main transportation hub and its largest seaport.\n\nMany multinational conglomerates and financial institutions are headquartered in and around the Kingston Metropolitan Area. Air Jamaica was headquartered in Kingston. The idea of making Jamaica an International Financial Centre has also been proposed as a way to boost the city's financial sector and create more jobs, especially for professionals such as accountants and lawyers.\n\nThe city's major industries include tourism, apparel manufacturing, and shipping. Many international exports are traded through the city's seaport, with major exports including bauxite, sugar and coffee. The city is also a major tourist destination, and tourism is one of its largest sources of economic activity. The city has suffered economic troubles recently, however, along with the rest of the country of Jamaica. Plans to help the city's economy have made downtown Kingston the subject of numerous redevelopment plans. There have also been attempts to grow the manufacturing industry in the area and to attract call centres to the city.\n\nKingston is surrounded by the Blue Mountains, Red Hills, Long Mountain and the Kingston Harbour. The city is on the Liguanea plain, an alluvial plain alongside the Hope River. Kingston experiences frequent earthquakes, including the 1907 earthquake.\n\nKingston has a tropical climate, specifically a tropical wet-and-dry climate, that borders on a hot-semi arid climate. (\"Bsh\"). characterised by a wet season from May to November, which coincides with the hurricane season, and a dry season from December to April. During the dry season, there is not much rainfall, however, cold and stationary fronts occur at this time, and often bring heavy showers, especially in March. Kingston is in the rain shadow of the Blue Mountains; therefore, little to none of the moisture carried by the Northeast Trade Winds falls over Kingston, causing Kingston to be very dry in comparison to Portland and Saint Mary on the windward side of the Blue Mountains. Kingston is on a coastal location, hence it comes under the influence of the sea, though dense urban development can negate this effect. In the 21st century, Kingston has experienced temperatures as high as and as low as . Between 1895 and 1990, the total average rainfall was recorded at , the highest monthly average rainfall recorded in October at , and the lowest monthly average rainfall recorded in March at . Fog, hail, thunder and tornadoes are all extremely rare.\n\nIn 1848 the Jamaican government expanded Kingston by constructing new homes in the west, north and east of the city. This housing became highly segregated in terms of race and class and by 1860 the majority of white elites lived on the outskirts of the city.\n\nAs Kingston’s population grew, existing settlements became so densely occupied that marshes in the southwest were filled in to allow the development of new housing. By 1935, continued population growth and poverty resulted in the emergence of slums in the east and west of the city. Later these areas were demolished by the government and residents were rehoused in Denham Town. This development accommodated 3,000 people, leaving more than one sixth of displaced resident homeless. Consequently, overcrowding persisted throughout the city and cramped living condition resulted in public health issues.\n\nSuburbanization also became significant and by the 1960s this residential area spread to the foothills of the Blue Mountains. Subsequently, the lack of space and continued consumerism meant this area then expanded to the east of the mountains.\n\nIn Kingston, 20% of the population now live in squatter settlements. Contrastingly, Kingston is also home to the ‘Goldilocks zone’, a suburb that holds some of the most expensive houses in all of Jamaica.\n\nThe city of Kingston is home to a number of urban parks which are frequently transformed to accommodate various events and festivities on the Jamaican calendar. The most popular parks include: Emancipation Park, Hope Gardens, Devon House, National Heroes' Park, St William Grant Park and Mandela Park.\n\nThe Liguanea Club, a recreational and social club for the upper class in society, located on Knutsford Boulevard, owned over of land including the former Liguanea Park now the site of Emancipation Park. The club gave the land measuring seven acres as a gift to the Jamaican Government.\n\nSeveral government members argued that the land should be converted into a business district, while others felt a multi-functional entertainment complex should be built on the site. The large financial input needed for either venture, was not forthcoming. In 2002 Cabinet granted approval for the transfer of the land to the National Housing Trust on the condition that a park was built and maintained at that location. The land was transferred for one Jamaican dollar.\n\nThe park is well known for the 11 ft. (approximately 3m) high bronze sculpture done by Jamaican artist Laura Facey, situated at the park's main entrance. This prominent sculpture comprises two naked black male and female statues gazing to the skies – symbolic of their triumphant rise from the horrors of slavery. The statue was unveiled in July 2003, in time for the park's first anniversary which caused an out cry from the Jamaican populace who believed that the blatant nudity and generous bodily proportions of the figures were very inappropriate to depict the freedom of black people.\n\nThe Royal Botanical Gardens at Hope, popularly called Hope Gardens serves as a national attraction. The Hope Gardens is a part of the of land making it the largest botanical garden in the English-speaking Caribbean. The land situated by the foothills of the Blue Mountains was originally owned by Major Richard Hope from whom it got its name. Two hundred acres of this land was obtained by the Government of Jamaica in 1880 and was originally established as a plant introduction and crop-testing facility for plants such as pineapple, cocoa, coffee and tobacco. The formal Botanical Gardens were laid out on approximately of this land with the assistance of personnel from the Kew Gardens in England.\n\nIn the 1950s, the Queen, after visiting the island and being pleased with the state of the gardens, gave permission for it to be called the Royal Botanical Gardens, Hope. The Gardens have many exotic species along with some endemic trees of Jamaica. Over the years, the ravages of hurricanes and other disasters have resulted in the loss of a significant number of species. However, there are still some prominent trees and popular sites to be viewed in the Gardens. At Hope Gardens, visitors can view a number of other features including the Coconut Museum, the Sunken Gardens, the Orchid House, the Lily Pond, the Maze and Palm Avenue.\n\nThe Hope Gardens has an adjoining zoo referred to as Hope Gardens Zoo. The gardens and zoo are currently undergoing redevelopment to improve the physical landscape and the animal inventory as a part of Bring Back The Hope campaign.\n\nThe St William Grant Park (Parade) in the heart of downtown Kingston is the starting point for three of Jamaica's four A roads, namely the A1 (Kingston to Lucea), the A3 (Kingston to Saint Ann's Bay) and the A4 (Kingston to Annotto Bay), while the city itself is provided with a dense network of trunk, main, secondary and minor roads. It also consists of the Highway 2000, Jamaica which runs through Portmore, Ocho Rios and Mandeville. A new section of Highway 2000, Jamaica (called \"T3\") was recently opened to the public. It has greatly reduced the travel time between Kingston and Montego Bay from 4 hours to a mere 2 1/2 hours.\n\nKingston is served well by a modern bus system, mini buses and taxis, which operate throughout the city with major hubs at Parade, Cross Roads, Half Way Tree and elsewhere.\n\nPrivate car ownership levels are high, and like many major urban conurbations Kingston suffers from frequent traffic jams and pollution.\n\nIn June 1898, the existing mule car service was phased out and a transition to electric trams, initially operated by the West India Electric Company and later by the Jamaica Public Service Company, was undertaken. This transition to the electric tram was completed on 31 March 1899. This service continued to operate, but the inflexibility of a tram service could not keep pace with a growing city, and the tram service ceased to operate on 7 August 1948.\n\nBetween 1948 and 1953 a motor bus service was operated by a company called Jamaica Utilities. The government revoked its franchise in 1953. \n\nFrom 1953 to 1983 the Jamaica Omnibus Service operated a service, which at its peak consisted of over 600 buses and served an area spanning Spanish Town, Border, Mt. James, Bull Bay and Port Royal. It was wound up by the government in 1983 after being nationalised in 1974.\n\nKingston is served well by a modern bus system, the Jamaica Urban Transit Company (JUTC), mini buses, and taxis, which operate throughout the city with major hubs at Parade, Cross Roads, Half Way Tree and elsewhere.\n\nThe now disused Kingston railway station served the main line with branches from , , and .\n\nThe railway station opened in 1845 and closed in October 1992 when all passenger traffic on Jamaica's railways abruptly ceased.\n\nKingston's international airport is Norman Manley International Airport while Tinson Pen Aerodrome provides domestic services.\n\nHistorically, the Kingston waterfront was Jamaica's main port with many finger piers at which freighters and passenger liners could dock. More recently, with the containerisation of freight, the port has moved to Newport West.\n\nJamaica's police force, the Jamaica Constabulary Force, is based on Old Hope Road near Liguanea. Smaller police stations, such as Hunt's Bay, Matilda's Corner and Half-Way-Tree, are dispersed across the Corporate Area. The Supreme Court of Jamaica is also located in Kingston. Other courts, such as the Half-Way-Tree Resident Magistrate's Court, Gun Court, Traffic Court and Family Court, make Kingston their home. The Jamaica Defence Force (JDF) has its headquarters at Up Park Camp near New Kingston and Cross Roads. The JDF also operates a major naval base at Port Royal.\n\nFire response in Kingston is provided by the Jamaica Fire Brigade, the national fire service. The service operates from fire stations spread throughout the Corporate Area. Currently fire stations are located at \n\nThe Gleaner Company, the Jamaica Observer and the Sunday Herald, three of Jamaica's large newspaper companies, make their home in Kingston. Several television and radio stations including Television Jamaica (TVJ), CVM TV, RJR 94 FM, TBC Radio 88.5 FM, Hitz 92 FM, FAME 95 FM, LOVE TV, ZIP 103, Kool 97 FM and LOVE FM, are all based in Kingston.\n\nThe capital is home to four association football teams who play in the Jamaican Premier League. The teams are Arnett Gardens, Boy's Town, Harbour View, Maverley Hughenden, Waterhouse F.C..\n\nFixed voice and broadband services in Kingston are provided by either FLOW and Digicel (via their new Digicel Play service which currently exclusive to the Kingston Metropolitan Area). FLOW uses a Hybrid Fibre and Coaxial network to provide IPTV, VoIP & POTS and broadband capable of speeds up to 100 Mbit/s. FLOW also uses a Copper network to provide POTS and ADSL capable of speeds up to 12 Mbit/s. Digicel uses a GPON fibre-optic network, providing IPTV, VoIP and broadband speeds of up to 200 Mbit/s. Digicel's Fibre-optic network boasts capacity of up to 10 Gbit/s.\n\nMobile voice and broadband services in Kingston are dominated by incumbents, FLOW & Digicel. Both carriers provide GSM, EDGE, HSPA, HSPA+ and LTE connectivity in and around the city.\n\nCurrently, FLOW offers HSPA+ of up to 21 Mbit/s on 850 MHz and 1900 MHz. FLOW also offers DC-HSDPA (commonly known as DC-HSPA+) allowing capable devices speeds of up to 42 Mbit/s on contiguous 1900 MHz spectrum.\n\nDigicel also offers 21 Mbit/s HSPA+ however, they also offer DC-HSDPA (commonly known as DC-HSPA+) allowing capable devices speeds of up to 42 Mbit/s on contiguous 850 MHz spectrum. Digicel was also first to market with LTE in Jamaica. Their network covers all of Kingston Parish and most of the populous areas in the Kingston Metropolitan Area, capable of speeds of up to 75 Mbit/s on 10 MHz of Band 17 spectrum.\n\nFLOW also offers LTE in Kingston. FLOW's LTE network is accessible on Band 4 or AWS spectrum. Due to the network delaying its rollout to acquire more spectrum, its network is theoretically faster than both Digicel and Caricel, to the tune of 150 Mbit/s (20 MHz of Bandwidth) with further plans to add low band spectrum, possibly increasing theoretical speeds up to 225 Mbit/s.\n\nKingston is also home to Caricel, Jamaica's newest telecoms operator, which deployed its LTE network first to the Kingston Metropolitan Area.\n\nIn addition, both carriers have their Jamaican head offices in the city (with the exception of Digicel, which has its company headquarters in Kingston rather than a regional office there as is the case with FLOW, which is based in Miami).\n\nPostal services in Kingston and throughout the island are provided by the Postal Corporation of Jamaica, the national post office of Jamaica. Services include domestic and international mail delivery, post office boxes, registered mail, priority mail (local courier), parcel delivery, express mail service (international courier), advertising mail and provision of post office boxes.\n\nKingston is divided in several postal zones enumerated as follows;\n\nKingston, as the capital, is the financial, cultural, economic and industrial centre of Jamaica. Many financial institutions are based in Kingston, and the city boasts the largest number of hospitals, schools, universities and cultural attractions of any urban area on the island. Notable Kingston landmarks include the University of the West Indies, Jamaica Defence Force Museum, and Bob Marley Museum.\n\nKingston is twinned with:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31474539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31474539", "title": "Kirkuk–Haifa oil pipeline", "text": "Kirkuk–Haifa oil pipeline\n\nThe Kirkuk–Haifa oil pipeline (also known as the Iraq–Haifa pipeline or Mediterranean pipeline) was a crude oil pipeline from the oil fields in Kirkuk, located in the former Ottoman vilayet of Mosul in northern Iraq, through Jordan to Haifa (in mandatory Palestine, now in the territory of Israel). The pipeline was operational between 1935 and 1948. Its length was about , with a diameter of (reducing to in parts), and it took about 10 days for crude oil to travel the full length of the line. The oil arriving in Haifa was distilled in the Haifa refineries, stored in tanks, and then put in tankers for shipment to Europe.\n\nThe pipeline was built by the Iraq Petroleum Company between 1932 and 1934, during which period most of the area through which the pipeline passed was under a British mandate approved by the League of Nations. The pipeline was one of two carrying oil from the Baba Gurgur, Kirkuk oilfield to the Mediterranean coast. The double pipeline split at Haditha (Pumping Station K3) with a second line carrying oil to Tripoli, Lebanon, which was then under a French mandate. That line was built primarily to satisfy the demands of the French partner in IPC, \"Compagnie Française des Pétroles\", for a separate line to be built across French mandated territory.\n\nThe pipeline and the Haifa refineries were considered strategically important by the British Government, and indeed provided much of the fuel needs of the British and American forces in the Mediterranean during the Second World War.\n\nThe pipeline was a target of attacks by Arab gangs during the 1936–39 Arab revolt in Palestine, and as a result one of the main objectives of a joint British-Jewish Special Night Squads commanded by Captain Orde Wingate was to protect the pipeline against such attacks. Later on, the pipeline was the target of attacks by the Irgun.\n\nIn 1948, with the outbreak of the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, the official operation of the pipeline ended when the Iraqi Government refused to pump any more oil through it.\n\nThese were named in numerical order going westwards, with the stations from Kirkuk to Haditha denoted \"K\" (after Kirkuk) and the subsequent ones to the Mediterranean coast at Haifa denoted \"H\" (after Haifa) and those to Tripoli denoted \"T\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8438136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8438136", "title": "List of editions of Protocols of the Elders of Zion", "text": "List of editions of Protocols of the Elders of Zion\n\nThis lists early editions of \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\", an antisemitic forgery purporting to describe a Jewish conspiracy to achieve world domination. For recent editions, see Contemporary imprints of The Protocols of the Elders of Zion.\n\n1902 M: Mikhail Osipovich Menshikov (1902) - The first textual reference to \nthe Protocols, in a far-right newspaper article; claims that they were \nstolen by a \"French journalist\" in Nice, and quotes a line.\n\n\nL: Hippolytus Lutostansky - A direct quote of above edition; no revision, but useful chronological evidence.\n\nВеликое въ маломъ и антихристъ (\"Velikoe v' malom' i antikhrist' \"), [\"The Great within the Minuscule and Antichrist\", trans.]\n\nThis version claims, bizarrely, that the \"Protocols\" date to 929 B.C.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"The International Jew: The World's Foremost Problem (Volume 1)\" (1920)\n\n\"Jewish Activities in the United States (Volume 2)\" (1921)\n\n\"Jewish Influence in American Life (Volume 3)\" (1921)\n\n\"Aspects of Jewish Power in the United States (Volume 4)\" (1922)\n\n\n\"The Cause of World Unrest\"\n\n\"Protocols of the meetings of the Learned Elders of Zion \"\n\n\"Protocols of the Meetings of the Learned Elders of Zion\"\n\n\"World Conquest Through World Government: The Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion\"\n\nThe earliest imprint in the British Library is as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "28994812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28994812", "title": "Los Placeres", "text": "Los Placeres\n\nLos Placeres is an archeological site located between the “Waspán” and “Tabacalera Nicaragüense” neighborhoods at kilometer 4½ of the “Carretera Norte”, in Managua, en Nicaragua. The site extends to the coast of Lake Managua. A large part of the area that delimits the site is being impacted by a new urban settlement known as Barrio Hugo Chávez, which divides the site, where its new settlers have disturbed the ground for installation of pipes for drinking water, toilet and housing, this activity has caused a serious incidental findings and impacts to the prehispanic archaeological site.\n\nThe Sector where the largest concentration of material evidence is on the surface is where excavations and archaeological research was made, mainly in the place that still preserves prehispanic mounds or architectural structures which probably corresponded to domestic or ceremonial areas.\n\nThis material is part of the document \"Los Placeres, a scientific interest archaeological site.\n\nDue to the internal complexity this site has drawn interest and attention and is catalogued as object of scientific importance and research by the characteristics of its environment, and archaeological evidence observed; a group of archaeologists led by Dr. Frederick Lange in the 1980s (Lange, 1983, Sheets 1983) carried out an inventory and recognition of interest sites in the Pacific area of Nicaragua with the purpose of determining different settlement patterns within the Great Nicoya Sub-Cultural area, this prospection included Los Placeres, finding the presence of multiple chronological periods of occupation 500-800 CE, 800-1350 CE and 1350-1530 CE., and main structures and spatial distribution of potential settlements that inhabited the banks of the Lake and its regional connection by means of the lake.\n\nDominican Victor Holguín conducted two surveys, the results do not offer much interpretation of cultural material due to lack of knowledge and its classification system (Holguín: 1983). Ten years later, archaeologist Ronaldo Salgado conducted a survey and surface recollection determining that site was probably occupied from 500 to 1500 CE, which coincides with the material analysis of the controlled excavations performed by Stauber in 1996. (Stauber: 1996)\n\nTherefore, it is suggested that apart from this site together with other registered by population impact by the Archaeology Department of the National Museum (Pichardo: 1996), (García: 1996) (Espinoza: 1996) (Zambrana: 1996) located on the shores of Lake Managua that used aquatic and land resources and fertile land for deployment in this area.\n\nIt is possible that biological characteristics determined and influenced the way of life, work and ceremonial and funerary practices in prehispanic Managua, and late period at the time of contact (Oviedo: 1976), in his descriptions he mentions a town very prosperous and a beautiful and populous square. (Gonzalo Fernández de Oviedo y Valdés, 1976: 3 376-377).\n\nFor several years after the eighties, natural disasters, water floods, agriculture, erosion, grazing livestock, robberies, lack of budgets and human resources of the cultural institution, destined for archaeological research has minimized research in the area, even with the existence of potential areas considered part of the archaeological reserve of one of the sites with a great information potential, of native people who lived on the shores of Lake Managua. (Stauber: 1996).\n\nBy 1996 within the Managua Metropolitan Zone archaeological research project (Lange: et al. 1996) (Stauber: 1996) (Pichardo: 1996) during his second season performed investigation, prospecting and excavation as it was considered a site of great scientific and ethno historical interest, where results determined it to be a multiple components site, represented by different occupation periods, Bagaces (300-800 CE), Sapoa (800-1350 CE), Ometepe (1350-1550 CE) and foreign contacts according to diagnosed pottery, also found a variety of domestic residues represented by the different ceramic types (Stauber: 1996) and lithic stone artifacts for hunting, fishing, grinding, also the location and distribution of several mounds where quantity and density of surface archaeological material is evident; where it is possible to affirm that there was a large population concentration.\n\nDuring these excavations (Stauber: 1996) as result of the analysis of the material, concluded with emphasis on regional trade with groups of the central part and the Pacific through the lake, a possible social stratified organization, with emphasis on local organization.\n\nWhat has not yet been reported on any field report and material analysis, of the aforementioned in the Los Placeres archaeological history (Stauber: 1996) is the evidence of burial areas.\n\nIt is necessary to systematically extend research and with scientific rigor with the purpose of defining burial spaces and obtain data related to prehispanic burial patterns on the site.\n\nIt should be noted that the population has impacted many secondary burials in Sacasa striated type urns (Bonilla \"et al.\" 1990), with small offerings pots, in different Managua settlements; mainly located on banks of Lake Managua, and other burial findings found in neighboring sites, as in Barrio Domitilla Lugo, El Rodeo (Pichardo: 1996), Las Torres (Garcia, Vázquez: 1996), and the San Cristobal site (Weiss: 1983).\n\nIt is likely that each hamlet or native settlement demarcated its burial area, because it is a decisive element to define social stratification by its funerary trousseau and the spatial distribution of the site and the village.\n\nAt the site Las Torres (Garcia: 1996) close to the lake shore, an important funeral pattern was found, scientifically recorded during archaeological investigations to develop in the area of the Metropolitan area of Managua and could determine a social stratification and form of collective burials or family based on spatial distribution and funerary trousseau.\n\nThe materials studied by Stauber within the second archaeological research season in the Metropolitan Zone (1996) the percentage of classified and scanned material, reported a strong presence and percentage of Sacasa striated type (Bonilla \"et al.\" 1990: 227) and suggests that perhaps had utilitarian and household use.\n\nWithin the main Sacasa ceramics burials, frequently over 50% of excavated materials depicted specific uses and utilitarian purposes represented in dishes called tecomates, ollas with enlarged outward edge, and outside of the utilitarian function, Sacasa seems to have had significance as burial pottery. (Bonilla: 228) represented in the funerary urns, boot or shoe shaped.\n\nDuring urbanization work and activities near a House, 4 prehispanic funeral urns were found, one of them large was placed in the center with a circular lid possibly Sacasa Striated type (800 BC-1350 DC, Bonilla \"et al.\" 227). Lack of current population awareness and the interest by the belief that it contained treasures; artifacts were completely destroyed and altered the context and archaeological record. Lack of prevention and supervision causes that each day more sites are destroyed and therefore the archaeological information.\n\nAll recovered parts were inventoried and taken to the restoration and laboratory of the Anthropology Department of the National Museum for their proper restoration, conservation and study by archaeologists.\n\nMost urns and the skeletal remains are completely fragmented making it almost impossible to determine its context and spatial distribution; it is not possible to determine sex or age of the individuals.\n\nIn general and according to burials characteristics found in the Pacific area and the coast of Lake Managua (Garcia: 1996) it is a funerary component possibly of one or two individuals due to the amount of Sacasa Striated type urns shoe shaped, also possibly associated with Papagayo ceramic polychrome fragments (800-1350 DC).\n\nOther ceramic types associated with children burials is Las Brisas (not yet dated) where a funerary burial was found and the Sitio del Ferrocarril site in the city of Managua (Zambrana: 1996). Also at the laboratory are two shoe shaped miniature Sacasa Striated vessels associated with the funeral component where it is supposed that these had remnants of food or fish bone (García: 1999).\n\nAn archaeological recovery was made by a trench 6 x 4 meters long and width respectively, the excavation was abandoned for more than 15 days, were objects and human remains were displayed of the prehispanic inhabitants of the site.\n\nExcavation had reached a depth of approximately 35 to 40 centimeters depth at the time it was abandoned.\n\nEach of the funerary urns was coded using numbers 1 to 8, then surface cleaning was made and proceeded to excavate around before lifting, it must be clarified that most of these burials were already completely excavated and suffered vandalism. The maximum burial depth approximately ranges from 75 to 80 centimeters, only the oblong funeral urns were seated on the geological stratum known as Talpetate.\n\nCurrent residents have built latrines and in most archeological remains have been found; vegetation consists of fruit trees, bananas, and ornamental plants in the houses. Soils are sedimentary; clay with very fine light brown sand residues, the fertile stratum ranges between 30 and 40 centimeters in thickness in succession appears the Talpetate stratum.\n\nInterpretation made about this burials area is that they seem to be distributed in the following manner and its description is made according to their north-south location: there are four red slip oblong-shaped funerary pottery urns of type known as Sacasa Striated located in north, south, east and west positions as if representing the four cardinal points.\n\nBurial 1: It is a secondary funeral urn burial, 60 centimeters in diameter which was discovered by the west side of the trench, was superficially fragmented and contents at the top disturbed, was aligned with burials 2, 8, and 3, which correspond to urns shoes shaped burials.\n\nBurials 2, 8 & 3: Were located in the center of the excavation between the urn 1 located on the west side, these are medium urns shoe shaped of the Sacasa Striated ceramic type, they were aligned with the tip east to west, the urn on the east side of the excavation was destroyed, as well as primary burial which corresponded to the human bones of an individual with the skull oriented to the west, the specimen was buried with extended hands facing where the sun rises. Anthropological biometric and cultural context data that could have been retrieved from these human bones was lost due to its total destruction.\n\nBurial 4: By the southwest side of the excavation associated with funerary urn 7, oblong shape urn 4 ) shoe-shaped was found, the tip in position west, aligned with urns 1 and 6; while cleaning it human remains were found that correspond to lower limbs of an adult specimen, the bone remnants were found at the west of the urn.\n\nBurial 5:\nIt was located exactly at the center of Northern excavation profile and refers to a funeral urn, it is the only one that did not suffer disturbance except for the vessel which served as cover of the same; it was on a straight line from urns 7 & 8 and oriented north to south.\n\nBurial 6: Between funeral urns burial 1 and 7, next to the southwest corner of the excavation found burial 6, which consists of an oblong ceramic Sacas Striated type and with a Murillo neck vessel applied which functioned as the urn lid, this urn type was the only one that had a different pottery type, is possible that the use of this type of ceramic mark a cultural burials differentiation, the medium shoe-shaped urns belong to infant burials and there is only one child buried in a medium oblong urn Sacasa Striated type, that was also disturbed.\n\nBurial 7: It is an oblong ceramic Sacasa Striated vessel, located at the south and associated with burials 4 and 8 and in a straight line with funerary urn number 5. Only the burial mold was found where it was deposited on the Talpetate stratum, disappeared from the excavation and the whereabouts of prehispanic object is unknown, also lost is the cultural information.\n\nBurial 8: It is a medium prehispanic piece shoe shaped, only the mold impression was found, left on a clay layer, disappeared from the excavation and cultural information was lost.\n\nAbout these cultural vestiges two possibilities are inferred; the first is that it is related to a primary burial, disturbed or altered at the excavation time and second that the human remains were placed alongside the urn as funerary offerings. At the top of the ground of the dirt that contained this urn the mold or footprint where the small vessel was located that probably was the funeral offering of an infant. This burial was also disturbed and stolen.\n\nAll objects used in the burial ceremony were oblong and shape shoe ceramic Sacasa Striated Urn type and only one distinguished by having a lid made from ceramic Murillo neck applied type.\n\nIt must be established that all burials were disturbed and stolen and that the prehispanic objects corresponding to burials 7-8 and the urn 6) lid disappeared and their whereabouts is unknown. Funeral burial or urn number 9 which was associated with the bones of a direct burial by this sector of the trench was completely destroyed by the person that performed the excavation.\n\nIn relation to the ceramic it can be asserted that only three types of ceramics are reported: Sacasa Striated, Murillo neck applied, some Papagayo polychrome ceramic pots, there were basalt and chalcedony lithic chips.\n\nFunerary urns were transferred to the laboratory with part of their archaeological contents were burials urns 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6.\n\nAnalysis conducted on the archaeological evidence found in each of the urns provided the following data: Urn 1: diameter of 60 x 55 cm width and height respectively, found at between 30 and 40 cm depth relative to the edge of the urn begun appearing the first bone fragments.\n\nThe first anatomical part discovered was part of the skull which was placed face-down, the ribs, shoulder, scapulae and phalanxes were associated with the humerus and ulna – left side radius on the left side of the head. Lower limb of the skeletal remains were on the right side of the skull, the femurs below and the tibia - fibulae above, the pelvis and vertebrae residues were below the skull.\n\nAccording to the biological characteristics of the bone and based on teeth wear, the human remains seem to correspond to an adult female specimen, aged 30 to 35 years approximately.\n\nFurthermore, there were deciduous teeth remains or milk molar, premolar, canine and incisive, which appear to approximately correspond to a 1 to 2 years old child. Unfortunately the conservation state of the long bones did not permit obtaining biometric data to infer about the height of the adult individual.\n\nInside two small vases were found, one oblong shaped, flat base and wide mouth (8 cm) short-necked measuring 8 x 11 cm in height and width, Sacasa Striated ceramic type. The second corresponds to a small vessel with socket base, short neck; red slip probably associated with the red Rivas ceramic, measured 9 x 10 cm, height and width, and the mouth diameter is 5.2 cm.\n\nThese vessels are considered funerary offerings that relatives or family deposited with their dead at the time of the burial ceremony. Surely human remains deposited in this urn belonged to the mother and her baby, a collective family burial in a zone of burials.\n\nURN 2: Corresponds to a prehispanic piece shoe shaped with the following dimensions: Length 40, width 28, height 31 and mouth diameter 21.5 cm, was recovered completely fragmented and altered, at the bottom of the urn were found remains of temporary dental or deciduous molars, premolars, canine and incisors that seem to correspond to an infant aged 6 to 8 years approximately.\n\nURN 3: This artifact is similar to the previous one and has the same dimensions, inside a chalcedony chip was found, 2 of flint stone, and one of basalt. In the cleaning process animal remains were collected corresponding to fish vertebrae, amphibians, and evidence of vegetal remains and wildlife with combustion evidence (coal).\n\nHuman remains consist of very small residues including temporary dental parts or milk teeth: Molars 3, premolars 2, the four canines and 4 incisors. According to the biological characteristics of teeth roughly appear to belong to a child aged 12 to 18 months.\n\nMixed with the children remains 92 elaborate necklace beads made from clay cylindrical shape were found, round shape decorated in brown and black, they probably formed a small baby necklace that was possibly worn around his neck as a body adornment.\n\nFrom these burials is the only reported with this type of offering, in addition to lithic residues and fauna remains; this evidence probably constitute the child funerary dress that could be considered as a cultural differentiation element with regard to the \"social status\" of the individual.\n\nAssociated with this urn skeletal remains were discovered that seem to correspond to an adult specimen and was directly deposited on soil or direct burial. The human bones of this burial were destroyed by some local children who threw stones and subsequently the skeleton was destroyed completely by the person that commenced the excavation, this action against cultural property was completely vandalism.\nURN 4: This was located by the south end near the southwest corner of the excavation; it is a medium-sized urn equal to the previous and the same ceramic type. While being rescued it was found in the same fragmented state and stolen.\n\nAt the laboratory remains of human bones were found inside, which corresponds to a child. Probably the infant relatives deposited a small vase as offering, the dirt containing the urn still had the mold of the small vessel that was extracted and stolen by vandals.\n\nWhile retrieving the remains human remains were found at the west side of the urn, it is inferred this was a primary burial, probably disrupted, and probably buried with the body pointing south to north; the human remains seem to correspond to fragments of an adult lower limb, gender and age undetermined.\n\nURN 5: It is an oblong Sacasa Striated ceramic type with dimensions of 60 X 60 cm in height and diameter respectively, its mouth measures 30 cm long and was located in the center of the northern excavation.\n\nThis funeral burial is possibly the least damaged because it was only partially unearthed; only the urn upper part and the lid vessel were damaged by predators.\n\nTo extract this urn its content was partially excavated \"in situ\", then packaged and carefully moved to the laboratory. Using the same methodology that was used in the cleaning of the previous urns allowed us to obtain the following information:\n\nExcavation was made in small layers and at about 20 – 25 cm depth relative to the edge of the urn began to appear the first human skeletal remains, then discovered a skull, which was carefully cleaned discovering it had been placed face down, vertebrae, sternum, ribs, and shoulder were on both sides the head, skull was oriented towards the east.\n\nAmong the human remains, the following dental pieces were found: lateral superior incisive left, and right and the central, two central lower incisive, canine superior left and right and bottom right, M1, M2, lower rights M3, M1, M2, M3 left inferior, left upper M3, Pm1, higher rights Pm2, Pm1, upper left Pm2, Pm1, lower rights Pm2, Pm1, left Pm2 lower.\n\nWell-formed cusps are seen in all the molars, there is no enamel attrition, and teeth wear is in acceptable condition what indicate that these belong to a young person.\n\nOn the basis of morphological burials as the mastoid process, the jaw, wears and biological characteristics of their teeth it is inferred that these belong to a young female specimen, aged 18 to 21 years approximately.\n\nPathology: Only the M2 showed decay evidence (spots), and low concentration of tartar dental cement in most teeth.\n\nBelow the woman skull, in sequence were found, cranial bones that according to their anatomical characteristics and biological seem to correspond to a male specimen, who was placed face-down oriented north; seems to be that the lower extremities of both individuals were package deposited in east-west direction and upper extremities north-south. Clavicles, vertebrae, ribs, etc. were found on both sides of the head, as well as the woman.\n\nAmong the unearthed human remains are: A fragment of the left jaw branch that preserves dental pieces M1 and M2, a fragment of the jaw left side which preserves in its anatomical position dental pieces Pm1 Pm2, M1, M2 is observed that wear is homogeneous in all the molars.\n\nAmong dental disarticulated pieces the following were found: right upper lateral incisor, a lower left canine, lower molars M2 left and right, the premolars Pm1, superior Pm2 left and right, 5 dental pieces, not possible to determine their anatomical position due to its conservation state.\n\nThe exception is in M2, presents a much more marked wear, it is likely that this type of tooth abrasion was due to the individual using his teeth as a tool.\nAccording to the biological characteristics of the skull, jaws, long bones and tooth wear leads to conclude that these belong to a mature male adult of about 30 to 35 years of age.\n\nAssociated with the previously described human remains is a right jaw branch piece which preserves its molar temporary M1 anatomical position (or milk) with much wear and the premolar Pm2 still in the alveolar orifice in the process of emergency.\n\nWe is recorded a fragment of the left jaw that retains in anatomical position premolars Pm1 and Pm2 as deciduous teeth and is observed in the alveoli molar M1 permanent in emergency process. On the basis of these data it is inferred that the skeletal remains could correspond to an infant aged 10 to 12 years approximately.\n\nPathology: Observed decay evidence in molars and tartar concentration in most teeth, did not observe any sort of disease in the long bones caused by pathological problems.\n\nURN 6: It is an oblong medium funerary urn with the following dimensions: diameter 43 cm, height 35, mouth measuring 25 cm. The urn was located south of urn number 1.\n\nOn the West side of the urn, human remains were found possibly part of a femur oriented north-south, it is likely that this was a direct burial that was disturbed at the time of depositing the urn.\n\nAmong the human remains are present remains of a skull, a temporary molar, and remains of the upper and lower limbs. The remains suggest that it is a child of about 7 to 9 years of age. Bone fragments have a poor conservation status.\n\nURNS 7 & 8: Correspond to a child and adult burials, were extracted and stolen, unknown destinations, information was supplied by the residents of the place.\n\nFuneral Burial 9 & 10: Corresponded to a large urn, similar to 5 and a primary funeral urn, the remains seemed to be an adult specimen; the skeletal remains were destroyed and trampled by Jorge Espinoza. This is considered as a vandalism act to the archaeological and cultural assets of the nation, these cases of destruction of predation should be disclosed to society.\n\nFuneral patterns practiced by prehispanic native settlers of Managua, interesting information is available, as is the case of archaeological records of burials with funerary trousseau that set or marked social stratification.\n\nThe presence of a main burial is a sign of social stratification. The use of artifacts and green stones, are burials establishing the difference. As a rule, offerings characteristics are better indicators of social rank when they can be associated with personal data of the deceased, such as age and gender. E.g., a case of range acquired by kinship, unlike that achieved by merit, would be represented in the tomb of a teenage individual buried with authority and opulence symbols.\n\nThe status distinctions have proved to be more difficult to determine that the ranks, especially in archaeological context for which there is no ethno historic or ethnographic direct analogy. This is the case when horizontal affiliation markers are perishable and survive as archaeological evidence; decorations painted on bodies, clothing, or hairstyles. (Garcia in Lange: 1996: 115).\n\nThese types of secondary burials in funerary Urns seem to be the most common forms of the ceremony of burials; but in recent years that applied analysis on human bones unearthed some urns from different sites in the metropolitan area of Managua and the country found skeletal remains belong to 2 or 3 dismembered individuals, deposited in a same Urn.\n\nOsteological analysis leads to infer that these were real families or that have a kinship as in the case of the urn number 5, a man, a woman and infant human remains were found had no clothes, probably related to common society members that were buried in a collective burial or a mound.\n\nBurials, often in a mound, were practiced in all parts of Nicaragua, and almost in the entire Nicoya peninsula. In Guacas and Las Casitas, Hartman (1907ª, p. 15), could not determine the profile of hole where the body was placed, due to the special nature of the soil. These sites, and certainly in many others, prevailed secondary funeral, and body bones were piled around the skull. (Lothrop. V-I page 93) down.\n\nAll urns and vessels belonging to the type, with the exception of a small red slip bowl, belongs to funerary offerings.\n\nThe main burials diagnostic is that areas not covered with grooves or brush are made after cooking. Decoration is based on live forms, especially animal shapes and strips are applied and grooved. Finally, a number of such urns are shoe shaped.\n\nOn the surface finish, the pots are observed scrapped inside and inside show brush, and stripes on the outside, while the earthenware display brushing on the inside surface and have a polished red slip.\n\nThe most frequently represented animals are rodents, bats, peccaries and growling jaguars. Strips frequently applied with grooves, are disposed in spiral or long circles. Other models were used to depict rough eyes, eyebrows and other facial features, as well, round knots, buttons etc.\n\nThe grooves are dominant decoration, however, they seem to have been made with strong, bristle brush, to scrape smooth surface without slip before cooking. The grooves tend to run horizontally around the vessel. Often groove markings in different directions, suggesting that the brushing technique was to completely cover the urn, modeling quickly and with meticulous care.\n\nIt seems that this ceramic had many uses, in addition to its domestic function. A good number of funerary urns of this kind were found by Bransford (1881), lacking edge, suggesting that these could be removed while placing the body of the deceased inside, showing that this vessels were not always designed to be used as urns. (Lothrop, 1926: 254).\n\nThis ceramic type marks a break with early traditions. It became the most important and common household type from the Apompua phase until the Spanish conquest (Haberland, 1986; 1992).\n\nBransford (1881) found Sacasa Striated accompanied by earthenware Luna Polychrome, indicating the contemporaneity of both types (Garcia in Lange, 1996: 117).\n\n1994 - Espinoza, E. R. Gonzalez, y D. Rigat, Gran Nicoya y la Cuenca del Lago de Managua. Vínculos 18/19: 157- 172.\n\n1992 - Lange F.W., PD. Sheets, A, Martínez t S. Abel- Vidor . The Archaeology of Pacific Nicaragua. University of New. México Press, Alburquerque.\n\n1995 - Zambrana J., y R. García V. Rescate de entierros secundarios en urns funerarias en los sitios N- MA- 24 Las Brisas; N-MA-35 El Ferrocarril. En Descubriendo Las Huellas de Nuestros Antepasados. El proyecto “Arqueología de la Zona Metropolitana de Managua “. Alcaldía de Managua. Managua.\n\n1995 - Zambrana - Descripción del nuevo tipo cerámico Las Brisas Impreso. En descubriendo Las Huellas de Nuestros Antepasados. El Proyecto “Arqueología de la Zona Metropolitana de Managua” pp. 153–154. Alcaldía de Managua. Managua.\n\n1996 - García, Ramiro Hallazgo Arqueológico en el Barrio Las Torres, Managua un possible cementerio con enterramiento múltiples. En Abundante Cooperación Vecinal. La segunda Temporada del proyecto Arqueología de la Zona Metropolitana de Managua.” pág. 105.\n\n1996 - Stauber Excavaciones arqueológicas e investigaciones preliminares en el Sitio Los Placeres (N- MA-1). En abundante cooperación Vecinal. La Segunda Temporada del proyecto Arqueología de la Zona Metropolitana de Managua”.\n\n1881 - Bransford, J.F. Institución Smithsonian, “Nicaragua Archaeological Investigations”, Washington D.C. 1881. Judd & Detweiler.\n"}
{"id": "38333937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38333937", "title": "Muhammad Abu Khubza", "text": "Muhammad Abu Khubza\n\nAbu Uways Muhammad Abu Khubza al-Hassani (, born 1932) is a Muslim Arab theologian, jurist, bibliographer and linguist from Morocco. His name has variantly been spelled \"Bukhabza,\" \"Boukhabza,\" Bu Khabza,\" and \"Bu Khubza.\"\n\nAbu Khubza was born on the 26th of Rabi' al-awwal in the year 1351 according to the Islamic calendar, corresponding to the 30th of July in 1932 Gregorian.\n\nAbu Khubza is an Arab historian, bibliographer and writer, having produced a detailed library catalog for the Tétouan branch of the Bibliothèque Générale et Archives, Morocco's national library. In addition to his catalog, Abu Khubza has written works on topics ranging from Islamic law to the syntax of the Arabic language.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47655600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47655600", "title": "Occupational hearing loss", "text": "Occupational hearing loss\n\nOccupational hearing loss (OHL) is hearing loss that occurs as a result of occupational hazards, such as excessive noise and ototoxic chemicals. OHL is a prevalent occupational concern in various work environments worldwide. In the United States, organizations such as the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) and the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) work with employers and workers to reduce or eliminate occupational hearing hazards through a hierarchy of hazard controls. OHL is one of the most common work-related illness in the United States. Occupational hearing hazards include industrial noise, and exposure to various ototoxic chemicals. Combined exposure to both industrial noise and ototoxic chemicals may cause more damage than either one would in isolation. Many chemicals have not been tested for ototoxicity, so unknown threats may exist.\n\nA 2016 study by NIOSH found that the mining sector had the highest prevalence of hearing impairment at 17%, followed by the construction sector (16%) and the manufacturing sector (14%). The public safety sector had the lowest rate of hearing impairment, at 7%.\n\nPersonal protective equipment, administrative controls, and engineering controls can all work to reduce exposure to noise and chemicals, either by providing the worker with protection such as earplugs, or by reducing the noise or chemicals at the source or limiting the time or level of exposure.\n\nOHL is defined as any type of hearing loss, i.e. sensorineural, conductive, or mixed hearing loss, that occurs due to hazardous characteristics of a work environment. The hearing loss can range in severity from mild to profound. Hazards of a work environment that can result in OHL include excessive noise, ototoxic chemicals, or physical trauma. OHL caused by excessive exposure to noise is also known as noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL). Noise exposure combined with ototoxic chemical exposure can results in more damage to hearing. OHL caused by physical trauma may include foreign bodies in the ear, vibration, barotrauma, or head injury. OHL, as well as hearing loss in general, can cause negative secondary social and emotional effects that can impact quality of life.\n\nWithin the United States of America, approximately 10 million people have NIHL. Over twice that number (~22 million) are occupationally exposed to dangerous noise levels. Hearing loss accounted for a sizable percentage of occupational illness in 2007, at 14% of cases. United States government agencies such as OSHA, NIOSH and MSHA are working to understand the causes of OHL and how it can be prevented while providing regulations and guidelines to help protect the hearing of workers in all occupations.\n\nExposure to noise can cause vibrations able to cause permanent damage to the ear. Both the volume of the noise and the duration of exposure can influence the likelihood of damage. Sound is measured in units called decibels, which is a logarithmic scale of sound levels that corresponds to the level of loudness that an individual's ear would perceive. Because it is a logarithmic scale, even small incremental increases in decibels correlate to large increases in loudness, and an increase in the risk of hearing loss.\n\nSounds above 80 dB have the potential to cause permanent hearing loss. The intensity of sound is considered too great and hazardous if someone must yell in order to be heard. Ringing in the ears upon leaving work is also indicative of noise that is at a dangerous level. Farming, machinery work, and construction are some of the many occupations that put workers at risk of hearing loss.\n\nNIOSH establishes recommended exposure limits (RELs) to protect workers against the health effects of exposure to hazardous substances and agents encountered in the workplace. These NIOSH limits are based on the best available science and practices. NIOSH established the REL for occupational noise exposures to be 85 decibels, A-weighted (dB[A]) as an 8-hour time-weighted average. Occupational noise exposure at or above this level are considered hazardous. The REL is based on exposures at work 5 days per week and assumes that the individual spends the other 16 hours in the day, as well as weekends, in quieter conditions. NIOSH also specifies a maximum allowable daily noise dose, expressed in percentages. For example, a person continuously exposed to 85 dB(A) over an 8-hour work shift will reach 100% of their daily noise dose. This dose limit uses a 3-dB time-intensity tradeoff commonly referred to as the exchange rate or equal-energy rule: for every 3-dB increase in noise level, the allowable exposure time is reduced by half. For example, if the exposure level increases to 88 dB(A), workers should only be exposed for four hours. Alternatively, for every 3-dB decrease in noise level, the allowable exposure time is doubled, as shown in the table below.\n\nOSHA's current permissible exposure limit (PEL) for workers is an average of 90 dB over an 8-hour work day. Unlike NIOSH, OSHA uses a 5-dB exchange rate, where an increase in 5-dB for a sound corresponds to the amount of time workers may be exposed to that particular source of sound being halved. For example, workers cannot be exposed to a sound level of 95 dB for more than 4 hours per day, or to sounds at 100 dB for more than 2 hours per day. Employers who expose workers to 85 dB or more for 8 hour shifts are required to provide hearing exams and protection, monitor noise levels, and provide training.\n\nSound level meters and dosimeters are two types of devices that are used to measure sound levels in the workplace. Dosimeters are typically worn by the employee to measure their own personal sound exposure. Other sound level meters can be used to double check dosimeter measurements, or used when dosimeters cannot be worn by the employees. They can also be used to evaluate engineering controls aimed at reducing noise levels.\n\nSome recent studies suggest that some smartphone applications may be able to measure noise as precisely as a Type 2 SLM. Although most smartphone sound measurement apps are not accurate enough to be used for legally required measurements, the NIOSH Sound Level Meter app met the requirements of IEC 61672/ANSI S1.4 Sound Level Meter Standards (Electroacoustics - Sound Level Meters - Part 3: Periodic Tests).\n\nChemically-induced hearing loss (CIHL) is a potential result of occupational exposures. Certain chemical compounds may have ototoxic effects. Exposure to organic solvents, heavy metals, and asphyxiants such as carbon monoxide can all cause hearing loss. These chemicals can be inhaled, ingested, or absorbed through the skin. Damage can occur to either the inner ear or the auditory nerve.Certain medications may also have the potential to cause hearing loss.\n\nBoth noise and chemical exposures are common in many industries, and can both contribute to hearing loss simultaneously. Damage may be more likely or more severe if both are present, in particular if noise is impulsive. Industries in which combinations of exposures may exist include construction, fiberglass, metal manufacturing, and many more.\n\nIt is estimated that over 22 million workers are exposed to dangerous noise levels, and 10 million are exposed to solvents that could potentially cause hearing loss every year, with an unknown number exposed to other ototoxic chemicals. A 2018 informational bulletin by the US Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) introduces the issue, provides examples of ototoxic chemicals, lists the industries and occupations at risk and provides prevention information.\n\nOHL is preventable, but currently the interventions to prevent NIHL are complex. A 2017 Cochrane review found that hearing loss prevention programs revealed that stricter legislation might reduce noise levels. Hearing protection devices, such as earmuffs and earplugs can reduce noise exposure to safe levels, but, instructions are needed on how to put plugs into the ears correctly to achieve potential attenuation. Giving workers information on their noise exposure levels by itself was not shown to decrease noise. Engineering solutions might lead to similar noise reduction as that provided by hearing protection. Better evaluation of the noise exposures resulting from engineering interventions is needed, as most of the available information is limited to observations in laboratory conditions. Overall, the effects of hearing loss prevention programs are unclear. Better use of hearing protection as part of a program but does not necessarily protect against hearing loss. The review concluded that in order to prevent NIHL in the workplace the quality of the implementation of prevention programs affects results, and that better quality of studies, especially in the field of engineering controls, and better implementation of legislation are needed. While the 2017 systematic review concluded there is a lack of conclusive evidence it highlighted that this should not be interpreted as evidence of lack of effectiveness. The implications is that further research could affect conclusions reached.\n\nThe hierarchy of controls provides a visual guide to the effectiveness of the various workplace controls set in place to eliminate or reduce exposure to occupational hazards, including noise or ototoxic chemicals. The hierarchy includes the following from most effective to least effective:\n\nEngineering controls is the next highest in the hierarchy of risk reduction methods when elimination and substitution of the hazard are not possible. These types of controls typically involve making changes in equipment or other changes to minimize the level of noise that reaches a worker's ear. They may also involve measures such as barriers between the worker and the source of the noise, mufflers, regular maintenance of the machinery, or substituting quieter equipment.\n\nThe OSHA Technical Manual (OTM) on noise provides technical information about workplace hazards and controls to OSHA’s Compliance Safety and Health Officers (CSHOs). The content of the OTM is based on currently available research publications, OSHA standards, and consensus standards. The OTM is available to the public for use by other health and safety professionals, employers, and anyone involved in developing or implementing an effective workplace safety and health program.\n\nExamples of noise control strategies adopted in the workplace can be seen among the winners of the Safe-in-Sound Excellence in Hearing Loss Prevention Awards.\n\nAdministrative control, behind engineering control, is the next best form of prevention of noise exposure. They can either reduce the exposure to noise, or reduce the decibel level of the noise itself. Limiting the amount of time a worker is allowed to be around an unsafe level of noise exposure, and creating procedures for operation of equipment that could produce harmful levels of noise are both examples of administrative controls.\n\nElimination or reduction of the source of noise or chemical exposure is ideal, but when that is not possible or adequate, wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) such as earplugs or earmuffs can help reduce the risk of hearing loss due to noise exposure. PPE should be a last resort and not be used in substitution for engineering or administrative controls. It is important that workers are properly trained on the use of PPE to ensure proper protection.\n\nIn addition to the hierarchy of controls, other programs have been created to promote the prevention of hearing loss in the workplace. For example, the Buy Quiet program was created to encourage the purchase of quieter tools and machinery in the workplace. Additionally, the Safe-n-Sound Award was created to recognize organizations that excel in preventing occupational hearing loss.\n\nOccupational hearing loss is a very present industrial issue that has been noticed since the Industrial Revolution. As industrial society continues to grow, this issue is becoming increasingly detrimental due to the exposure of chemicals and physical objects. Millions of employees have been affected by occupational hearing loss, especially in industry. Industrialized countries see most of these damages as they result in both economic and living problems.\n\nWithin the United States of America alone, 10 of the 28 million people that have experienced hearing loss related to noise exposure. Rarely do workers express concerns or complaints regarding Occupational hearing loss. In order to gather relevant information, workers who have experienced loud work environments are questioned regarding their hearing abilities during everyday activities. When analyzing OHP, it is necessary to consider family history, hobbies, recreational activities, and how they could play a role in a person’s hearing loss. In order to test hearing loss, audiometers are used to and are adjusted to American National Standards Institute (ANSI) regulations. The Occupation and Safety Health Association (OSHA) of the United States of America requires a program that conserves hearing when noise levels are greater than 85 dB. This program includes:\n1.”Monitoring to assess and record noise levels.”\n2. “Periodic audiometry.”\n3. “Noise Control”\n4. “Education and record keeping.”\n"}
{"id": "43290587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43290587", "title": "Orfeu da Conceição", "text": "Orfeu da Conceição\n\nThe play sets the Greek myth of Orpheus and Eurydice in a contemporary favela in Rio de Janeiro during the Brazilian Carnival. Started in 1954, the play was first performed on 25 September 1956 at the Teatro Municipal in Rio de Janeiro with a stage setting by Oscar Niemeyer. Abdias do Nascimento was in the original cast.\n\nSongs to the play were released on an Odeon-EMI LP (MODB 3.056) in the year of the play's premiere.\n\n"}
{"id": "8775537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8775537", "title": "Pierre Johanns", "text": "Pierre Johanns\n\nPierre Johanns (1 April 1882, Heinerscheid, Luxembourg - 8 February 1955, Arlon, Belgium) was a Luxemburger Jesuit priest, missionary in India and Indologist.\n\nJohanns was ordained priest on 1 August 1914 at Louvain, three days before World War I broke out and Germany invaded Belgium. He had studied philosophy under the prestigious metaphysician and mystic, Pierre Scheuer. Johanns' superior intelligence, nearing genius, had been recognized and he was destined to further studies while awaiting a still impeded passage to India. He took a full Licentiate in Philosophy from the Catholic University of Leuven (Belgium), and was then sent to Oxford as soon as the end of the war permitted it, in 1919. To evaluate his doctoral dissertation on \"The Agent Intellect in the Western and Eastern Philosophies,\" Oxford University could not find suitable examiners, and had to have recourse to Cambridge. From there came the extraordinary verdict: \"only once in a hundred years does one meet such an intellect.\" Oxford gave him the doctorate with the highest honours and offered him, despite his being a Roman Catholic and Jesuit, a professorship. But his call was for Calcutta, which he reached in November 1921. He taught philosophy at St. Xavier's College, Calcutta, at St Mary's, the Jesuit theologate at Kurseong, Darjeeling, and even in a Vaisnava monastery. He studied ever more deeply the Hindu tradition. Because he always approached the Real in terms of Value, he felt attuned to the aims and methods of Vedanta. As early as October 1922, he and another Oxford graduate and Jesuit confrere, Georges Dandoy, started \"The Light of the East\", a monthly directed to the Hindu intelligentsia as an instrument of interfaith reflection and dialogue. His contributions amounted to 216, 146 of which constitute the work \"To Christ through the Vedanta\". In 1938 ill health forced him to go back to Belgium, where he nevertheless founded an \"Indian Juniorate\" which, until 1955, would train young Jesuits for work in Bengal.\n\nA pioneer in promoting a new approach to Hindu Spirituality and Theology which he popularized through his Review \"Light of the East\" he prepared the radical change of outlook towards Eastern non-Christian religions that ultimately found its way into the Vatican II declaration \"Nostra aetate\" (on non-Christian Religions).\nInspired by the writings of Brahmabandhab Upadhyay (1861-1907), Johanns found in Shankara, the great Hindu Philosopher of the 9th century, spiritual and theological paths leading to Christ. Doing so he initiated an 'inculturation' movement of the Christian faith. His main work was published in 1932-33 : \"Vers le Christ par le Vedanta\" (2 vol.). Due to ill health he returned to Europe and died in Arlon (Belgium) in 1955.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47387007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47387007", "title": "Rodwell &amp; Martin", "text": "Rodwell &amp; Martin\n\nRodwell & Martin were early 19th century publishers of topographical prints. The firm was based in New Bond Street, London.\n\nThe firm's output included \"Swiss Scenery\" by James Pattison Cockburn (1820), \"Italian Scenery\" by Elizabeth Frances Batty (1820), \"Specimens of Ancient Decorations from Pompeii\" by John Goldicutt (1825), and similar works.\n"}
{"id": "17720707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17720707", "title": "System (stratigraphy)", "text": "System (stratigraphy)\n\nA system in stratigraphy is a unit of rock layers that were laid down together within the same corresponding geological period. The associated period is a chronological time unit, a part of the geological time scale, while the system is a unit of chronostratigraphy. Systems are unrelated to lithostratigraphy, which subdivides rock layers on their lithology. Systems are subdivisions of erathems and are themselves divided into series and stages.\n\nThe systems of the Phanerozoic were defined during the 19th century, beginning with the Cretaceous (by Belgian geologist Jean d'Omalius d'Halloy in the Paris Basin) and the Carboniferous (by British geologists William Conybeare and William Phillips) in 1822). The Paleozoic and Mesozoic were divided into the currently used systems before the second half of the 19th century, except for a minor revision when the Ordovician system was added in 1879.\n\nThe Cenozoic has seen more recent revisions by the International Commission on Stratigraphy. It has been divided into three systems with the Paleogene and Neogene replacing the former Tertiary System though the succeeding Quaternary remains. The one-time system names of Paleocene, Eocene, Oligocene, Miocene and Pliocene are now series within the Paleogene and Neogene.\n\nAnother recent development is the official division of the Proterozoic into systems, which was decided in 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50509737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50509737", "title": "Tel-musici", "text": "Tel-musici\n\nThe Tel-musici was an early entertainment innovation, which used telephone lines to transmit phonograph recordings to individual households. Subscribers called a central \"music room\" to request selections, which they listened to at home over specially designed loudspeakers called \"magnaphones\". The service later incorporated live programs, expanding its operations to more along the lines of a general \"telephone newspaper\".\n\nA Tel-musici company was incorporated in Delaware in 1908, and the service began operation in Wilmington the next year. However, although there were plans to expand throughout the United States, only this single location ever became operational, until it ceased operations around 1914.\n\nThe primary individual behind the Tel-musici was inventor George R. Webb. In January 1908, while soliciting for investors, he arranged a demonstration of the concept at a Baltimore hotel, where listeners telephoned a remote location with their requests, which were played back as \"'10 cents' worth of Lohengrin,' or 'a quarter's worth of ragtime'\" to the assembled participants. Shortly thereafter, a Tel-musici company with a capitalization of $10,000 was incorporated in the state of Delaware by \"a number of Baltimorians\".\n\nIn 1909 an operating Tel-musici system was established in Wilmington, Delaware with George Webb as the company president, and J. J. Comer the general manager. The music rooms' musical library was described as comprehensive and \"embracing a complete line of all the latest productions\". The charge was three cents for each requested standard tune, and seven cents for grand opera. Subscribers were required to guarantee purchases totaling $18 per year. Provisions were also made for transmitting a general program in lieu of individual requests.\n\nThe promoters hoped to interest local telephone companies in installing their own Tel-musici operations. The Wilmington operation was later taken over by the Wilmington and Philadelphia Traction Co., which operated a Wilmington telephone franchise, and an advertisement for a Tel-musici \"dance music program\" appeared as late as 1914. However, it does not appear that any additional installations became operational.\n\nIn 1912, George Webb began promoting the similarly conceived Magnaphone system, established in New York City, which was intended to transmit recording and other audio offerings to subscribers for eight dollars a month. The New York Magnaphone and Music Company was granted a twenty-five year franchise for operations \"in the Borough of Manhattan and that part of the Borough of The Bronx west of the Bronx River\", however, the franchise was never built. J. J. Comer would later participate, in conjunction with the Automatic Electric Company of Chicago, with development of the Musolaphone system, which briefly operated in southside Chicago, and which transmitted live news and entertainment to subscribing homes and businesses over telephone lines.\n"}
{"id": "45526803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45526803", "title": "The Bro Code: How Contemporary Culture Creates Sexist Men", "text": "The Bro Code: How Contemporary Culture Creates Sexist Men\n\nThe Bro Code: How Contemporary Culture Creates Sexist Men is a documentary created by Thomas Keith in 2011.\n\nThe film has been described as a treatise on misogyny.\n\nThomas Keith is a professor at California Polytechnic University and Claremont Graduate University where he teaches philosophy and gender studies. His specific areas of study include: American philosophy, race, class, and gender.\n\n"}
{"id": "42855879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42855879", "title": "The Journal of Imperial and Commonwealth History", "text": "The Journal of Imperial and Commonwealth History\n\nThe Journal of Imperial and Commonwealth History is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering the history of the British Empire and Commonwealth and comparative European colonial experiences. It was established in 1972 and is issued five times per year by Routledge. The editors-in-chief are Stephen Howe (University of Bristol) and Philip Murphy (Institute of Commonwealth Studies, University of London).\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n"}
{"id": "8216040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8216040", "title": "The Minds of Billy Milligan", "text": "The Minds of Billy Milligan\n\nThe Minds of Billy Milligan is a non-fiction novel portraying Billy Milligan, the first person in U.S. history acquitted of a major crime by pleading multiple-personality disorder. The novel was originally published in 1981, written by Hugo Award winning author Daniel Keyes, who received a bachelor's degree in psychology from Brooklyn College in 1950.\n\nThe sequel entitled \"The Milligan Wars\", was later published in Japan in 1994. According to the author, its release in the United States is tied to the release of the upcoming film adaptation entitled \"The Crowded Room\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8066053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8066053", "title": "Titulus (inscription)", "text": "Titulus (inscription)\n\nTitulus (Latin \"inscription\" or \"label\", the plural \"tituli\" is also used in English) is a term used for the labels or captions naming figures or subjects in art, which were commonly added in classical and medieval art, and remain conventional in Eastern Orthodox icons. In particular the term describes the conventional inscriptions on stone that listed the honours of an individual or that identified boundaries in the Roman Empire. A Titulus pictus is a merchant's mark or other commercial inscription.\n\nThe sense of \"title\", as in \"book title\", in modern English derives from this artistic sense, just as the legal sense derives from plainer inscriptions of record.\n\nThe most famous titulus was \"IESVS NAZARENVS REX IVDAEORVM\" inscribed on the placard hanging above Jesus' head on the Cross. \n\nThe increasing reluctance of the art of the West to use \"tituli\" was perhaps because so few people could read them in the Early Medieval period, and later because they reduced the illusionism of the image. Instead a system of attributes, objects identifying popular saints, was developed, but many such figures in Western art are now unidentifiable. This reluctance affected the choice of scenes shown in art; only those miracles of Jesus that were easily identifiable visually tended to be shown in cycles of the \"Life of Christ\". Thus the \"Raising of Lazarus\" and \"Wedding at Cana\" are by far the most commonly shown miracles, and the healing miracles, visually easy to confuse, are neglected. The problems can clearly be seen in the small scenes of the Saint Augustine Gospels (late 6th century), where about 200 years after the manuscript was written \"tituli\" were added, which according to some art historians misidentify some scenes. Banderoles were a solution that became popular in the later Middle Ages, and in Northern Europe in the 15th century were sometimes used very extensively for speech, rather as in modern comics, as well as \"tituli\". These were abandoned as old-fashioned in the Renaissance, but increased respect for classical traditions led to continued use of Ancient Roman-style \"tituli\" where they were considered necessary, including on portraits.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50966109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50966109", "title": "Tucson Five", "text": "Tucson Five\n\nThe Tucson Five was a group of house-mates from Los Angeles who were, despite a lack of evidence, alleged by the FBI to have been participants in the Weather Underground. Their case is notable because of the way in which grand jury proceedings and contempt of court charges were used against the group by Guy L. Goodwin of the United States Department of Justice, ultimately leading to a successful appeal to the Supreme Court by one member of the group. The case is additionally notable because the FBI breached the group's attorney-client privilege via wiretaps and black bag jobs.\n"}
{"id": "4752821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4752821", "title": "Türk Edebiyatı", "text": "Türk Edebiyatı\n\nTürk Edebiyatı (translated \"Turkish Literature\") is a Turkish literary magazine based in Turkey. The magazine was first published on 15 January 1972. The founder was Ahmet Kabaklı. Beşir Ayvazoğlu served as the editor-in-chief of the magazine between 2005 and 2015. He was succeeded by Bahtiyar Aslan in the aforementioned post in June 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "47629709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47629709", "title": "Vacationland (comedy show)", "text": "Vacationland (comedy show)\n\nVacationland is a stand-up comedy series starring American author, actor, and humorist John Hodgman. \"Vacationland\" played in fifteen different cities, debuting on September 12, 2015 at the Wilbur Theatre in Boston, Massachusetts and ending on November 7, 2015 at Ohio University in Athens, Ohio with \"The Daily Show\" correspondent Jordan Klepper.\n\n\"Vacationland\" is a 75-minute one-person show presented by comedian John Hodgman. It is named after Maine's current nickname.\n\nConcert tour industry trade publication \"Pollstar\" noted in \"Vacationland\"s press release the topics that will be discussed as \"how the people of various rural towns are probably planning to sacrifice you to their god,\" \"[Hodgman's] exile to the state of Maine, home to the world's most painful beaches,\" and \"the evolutionary purpose of the weird dad mustache.\"\n\nInitially, \"Vacationland\" was set to play in twelve cities. However, three more cities were added to the tour. After the publication of a \"Bangor Daily News\" interview with John Hodgman, a Portland, Maine tour date was added. Two previews of the show in Brooklyn, New York sold out.\n\"Exclaim!\"s Anthony Damiao said \"Hodgman was the personification of patience; bearded and looking something like a high school guidance counsellor nearing retirement. He was sedate, measured and collected — imagine NPR on stage, with glasses.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "32348481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32348481", "title": "Welcome to Palestine", "text": "Welcome to Palestine\n\nWelcome to Palestine, dubbed by Israeli media the flytilla, is an initiative of Palestinian civil society organizations in the West Bank to welcome hundreds of internationals to participate in a series of solidarity activities with the Palestinian people in the territory. According to organizers, the aim is also to draw attention to Israel's border policies and life under Israeli occupation. Israeli officials described those participating as \"hooligans\" and \"provocateurs,\" and maintained they had a right to deny the activists entry. Both in 2011—the project's inaugural year—and 2012, many participants were not allowed onto flights departing from European airports to Israel as a result of Israeli diplomatic efforts. In 2011, a total of 130 activists who did arrive at airport were refused entry upon landing, and a few were flown back to their countries' of origin immediately. Four people were granted entry after agreeing to sign documents in which they pledged not to participate in disturbances of the order. The rest of those refused entry were kept in two jails, some for several days, until their expulsions could be arranged.\n\nOrganizers estimated 600 to 1,000 international activists planned to participate, with delegations from France, Great Britain, Sweden, Germany, the USA, Japan and several African countries. Olivia Zemor, a French activist said about half the participants were French and ranged in age from 9 to 85. Sam Bahour, a Palestinian coordinator for the Right to Enter Campaign, said the international activists were invited to participate in the \"Welcome to Palestine\" initiative by 30 Palestinian civil society organisations.\n\nUpon arrival on 8 July in Ben Gurion Airport in Tel Aviv, the international activists were to openly declare their intent to go to occupied Palestinian territory to Israeli immigration officials. Activists say Israel's prejudicial border policies prompt visitors intending to travel to Palestinian areas to lie about their destination and this initiative aims to draw attention to the right of Palestinians to receive visitors.\n\nPalestinian civil society organisations who make up Welcome to Palestine said they have planned a full itinerary of peaceful activities beginning in Bethlehem and Ramallah on 9 July. According to the New York Times, Palestinian organizers include \"well-known advocates of non-violent protest like Sami Awad of the Bethlehem-based Holy Land Trust and Mazin Qumsiyeh, a science professor at Bethlehem University.\"\n\nIn the days prior to the launch of the initiative, Yitzhak Aharonovitch, Israel's Internal Security minister, said those intending to participate were \"hooligans\", and Benjamin Netanyahu, the Prime Minister, said \"Every country has the right to deny entrance of provocateurs and trouble-makers into its borders.\" Israeli officials ordered a heightened security presence at the airport. Local media dubbed the initiative a \"flightilla\", referencing the stymied attempt of the Freedom Flotilla II to break the Gaza blockade, and disseminated reports that the international visitors would attempt to create chaos at the airport. Activists said they were only planning nonviolent activities, and took issue with what they described as a smear campaign launched by Israel against them.\n\nIsrael's Interior Ministry sent a letter with a list of 342 passengers it described as \"pro-Palestinian radicals\" to foreign airlines notifying them that these people would be refused entry. Airlines were asked to prevent these passengers from boarding, and were warned that if they were allowed to fly into Tel Aviv, they would be sent back again on the same aircraft. Several airlines did as Israel requested, among them Lufthansa, Swiss International Air Lines and EasyJet. Jet2.com canceled tickets to Israel, and according to The Guardian, did not provide a refund, to three Manchester women that had intended on participating in the \"flytilla\" protest. Donzel Jean Claude, spokesman for Swiss Air said that this issue is regulated by the International Civil Aviation Organization and that airlines are \"legally obliged\" not to board passengers for whom they have information from the destination country that these people will not be allowed to enter. Dr Mark Ellis, executive director of the International Bar Association said that \"every country has the right to say who can and who cannot enter its borders. It's a controversial matter, but not illegal\".\n\nBy 9 July, Israeli authorities had questioned hundreds of airline passengers who had arrived at Ben Gurion Airport, and detained 124 people. Four were deported, and the rest, some 76 women and 38 men, were taken to prisons in Beersheba (Ela) and Ramleh (Givon) in Israel, where Israeli officials said they would be held until deported. The majority of the detainees are French, but there are also nationals from Belgium, Bulgaria, the Netherlands, Spain, the United Kingdom and the United States. Two Australians, Vivienne Porzsolt of Jews against the Occupation, and former parliamentarian Sylvia Hale, who had been participants on the Canadian Boat to Gaza, the \"Tahrir\", as part of the Freedom Flotilla II, flew from Crete to Tel Aviv and were detained but won a precedent-setting court decision allowing them stay in Israel and apply for permission to travel to Palestine. Among the British detainees who include four Scots, five English and three Welsh, was the coordinator for the British end of the visit who is also a university teacher and chairman of The Scottish Palestine Solidarity Campaign, as well as four retired professionals between the ages of 66 and 83, an Open University research fellow, the deputy leader of the Wales Green Party and a founding member of Swansea Palestine Community Link.\n\nThe Jerusalem Post reported on 10 July that group of Belgian men being held in Beersheba issued a statement declaring a hunger strike that French and German detainees at the same facility may also have joined. The demands are to be granted contact with their families, attorneys, and one another, and an international investigation into the process that led to their detainment. As of 11 July, 38 detainees had been deported, leaving 82 still in Israeli custody.\nSix Israeli pro-Palestinian activists who came to the airport to demonstrate their support for the initiative were arrested by Israeli authorities, after, according to the Israeli police spokesman, they \"caused a disturbance in the terminal\".\n\nWelcome to Palestine representatives in Bethlehem said legal action would be taken to challenge Israel's response.\n\nAccording to Benyamin Netanyahu, the flytilla activists were barred because they represented a \"provocation [that] was conceived by extremist Islamic and anti-Israel organizations who object to peace and call for Israel's destruction.\" Israel had warned airlines to bar \"personae non gratae\" from flying or face footing the bill for deporting them, fines, and denial of their aircraft to use Israeli airspace. Hundreds of people had their flight reservations cancelled by various airlines on 15 April, and an Israeli official said that anyone who managed to evade the Israeli no-fly requests would be apprehended at the Tel Aviv airport and deported. Air France said it would \"refuse to embark any passenger not admissible by Israel\", citing as justification the Chicago Convention. In a sarcastic letter, the Israeli government proposed alternative objects of protest for the activists to focus on: \"Syrian regime's daily savagery against its own people, which has claimed thousands of lives, Iranian regime's brutal crackdown on dissidents and its support for terrorism throughout the world, and Hamas rule in Gaza, where terror organizations commit a double war crime by firing rockets at civilians while hiding behind civilians\". Some pro-Israeli activists also flew in to protest the Welcome to Palestine fly-in, which they called an \"act of hatred\". \n\nPublic Security Minister Yitzhak Aharonovitch and his team were thanked by Netanyahu for what he regarded as a successful operation; Aharonovitch in turn expressed his gratitude to the airlines and European governments for their cooperation.\n\nParticipants in the project said they wanted to pass through the airport in Tel Aviv without incident in order to go directly to the West Bank, where they wanted to take part in a project on the right to education for Palestinian children. \n\nAccording to an Israeli official, 40% of names on the Shin Bet fly-in blacklist were not activists, including Israeli citizens, European business people and government officials, with even a French diplomat and his wife having tickets cancelled. The Israeli foreign ministry later confirmed that \"mistakes were made\".\n\nIsraeli newspaper \"Haaretz\" said the country had used \"extreme-to-hysterical measures to stop the activists from flying in, to the point of threatening the airlines\"; Israeli journalist Gideon Levy had lamented before the fly-in that his country never \"miss[es] an opportunity to look ridiculous in the eyes of the world.\" Israel's Channel 10 carried commentary saying the government would have been better off greeting the activists with roses and escorting them to Bethlehem on buses. \n\nIn the end, less than thirty out of an estimated 1,500 intended participants reached Bethlehem.\n"}
