{"id": "52469086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52469086", "title": "AIM Independent Music Awards", "text": "AIM Independent Music Awards\n\nThe following is a list of the Association of Independent Music Awards winners.\n"}
{"id": "24160896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24160896", "title": "A Horse and Two Goats and Other Stories", "text": "A Horse and Two Goats and Other Stories\n\nA Horse and Two Goats and Other Stories (also published as \"A Horse and Two Goats\") is a collection of short stories by R. K. Narayan, published in 1970 by The Bodley Head. The book is illustrated by R. K. Laxman, Narayan's brother, and includes five stories. The title story is a sly narrative of a business transaction between an American tourist and an Indian goat-herder as the result of an inability to communicate with each other.\n"}
{"id": "26699757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26699757", "title": "Academic capital", "text": "Academic capital\n\nIn sociology, academic capital is the potential of an individual’s education and other academic experience to be used to gain a place in society. Much like other forms of capital (social, economic, cultural), academic capital doesn’t depend on one sole factor—the measured duration of schooling—but instead is made up of many different factors, including the individual's academic transmission from his/her family, status of the academic institutions attended, and publications produced by the individual.\n\nAcademic capital originated in 1979 when Pierre Bourdieu (1930–2002), a prominent French sociologist, used the term in his book \"\" (translated to English in 1984). The book attempts to show how individuals are not defined by social class, but instead by their \"social space,\" which is dependent on each type of capital the individual has. He explained:\n\n“Academic capital is in fact the guaranteed product of the combined effects of cultural transmission by the family and cultural transmission by the school (the efficiency of which depends on the amount of cultural capital directly inherited from the family)” (23).\n\nWhile Bourdieu discussed social capital, economic capital, and cultural capital at length, he did not explore academic capital in equal detail. His 1986 essay, “The Forms of Capital” does not refer to academic capital as one of the main types of capital that affects the success of individuals; therefore he does not see academic capital as being as important as other kinds.\n\nSince Bourdieu first coined the term, it has been used widely—from France, the United States, Australia and Sweden—to discuss many of the implications involved with schooling and the rise of individuals in academia. Numerous studies have been done involving the idea of academic capital, and scholars have disagreed on what counts as academic capital.\n\nBourdieu’s definition of the term is applicable to any individual: even an individual interviewing for a secretarial position would benefit from having more schooling than another candidate. However, it seems that most references to academic capital refer solely to professional teachers and researchers within higher education. For example, in 2009, Michael Burawoy defined academic capital as being estimated from an individual’s \"curriculum vitae\", but admitted that it was subjective because some fields of study seem to value certain academic qualities more than others—research, in psychology or study abroad, for scholars in linguistics.\n\nAcademic capital is not to be confused with other terms that sound familiar—academic capitalism, intellectual capital. Intellectual capital is a business term for the collective knowledge in an organization, considered a capital cost. Academic capitalism is when universities act like profit-seeking organizations that market the knowledge that they can give to students, or clients.\n\nWhile there is not one specific way to measure academic capital, researchers throughout the world have enacted studies that quantify an individual's academic capital. Some of the ways researchers have attempted to measure academic capital are through:\n\nOn an individual level, academic capital influences and informs several important aspects of life. In the most basic sense, academic capital is strongly tied to earning potential. Individuals with only a high school diploma, on average, make over $20,000 less annually than individuals with an undergraduate degree, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. For individuals who do not have a high school degree, opportunities for monetary earning fall below $30,000 less than those with a degree.\n\nWhereas the biggest stepping stone to attain a higher paying career used to be an undergraduate degree, the common discussion in today’s market is the devalued status of a Bachelor’s degree. A Bachelor’s degree no longer holds the same academic capital it used to, and holding such a degree no longer entitles one to the same job opportunities and income possibilities it used to. Government statistics reveal that over the past 8 years, the average weekly earnings of individuals with bachelor's degrees have actually decreased, in relation to inflation, by nearly 2%. Therefore, many individuals are studying beyond four-year institutions in order to increase their capital and ultimately their income. When compared to an individual with a bachelor's degree, an individual with a graduate degree makes, on average, nearly $75,000 more annually.\n\nIn broader terms, a person’s academic capital affects his or her career opportunities and ultimately his or her career decisions. Again, with the diminished status of an undergraduate degree, individuals need to attend further schooling in order to increase their academic capital and their opportunities in the job market. Academic capital doesn't influence only one's final career choice, but also influences a person’s social standing and clout. Holding a doctoral degree or graduate degree earns a person a certain social esteem that those with only a high school diploma often do not receive. It also affects a person’s social networking, as those with higher education have had access and exposure to others following similar paths. It will affect where a person lives (due both to financial opportunities and social networking) and, ultimately, where his or her children go to school, creating a cyclical, interwoven relationship between schooling and social status.\n\nAn individual's academic capital does not affect only their own personal life, but also the lives of those around them, like their children or, in the case of teachers, their students. Several studies suggest that a teacher’s qualifications and academic capital have a direct relationship with their students’ success. What makes this issue of great concern is that teachers with high levels of academic capital are not distributed evenly throughout the population. According to the Illinois Education Research Council, as levels of poverty and minority populations increase within a school, the number of teachers with high academic capital strongly decrease. Just the reverse was true in school systems with low levels of poverty and minority students—at such schools, the number of teachers with high academic capital strongly outnumbered the teachers with a low academic capital as much as 40 to 1. Since there is a direct correlation between a teacher’s academic capital and his or her students’ success, it is concerning to consider that students who find themselves in low income, high minority schools will not have the same opportunity to grow and expand their own academic capital as would similar students at an institute with lower poverty and minority rates.\n\nThe Illinois Education Research Council acknowledges that academic capital is only one of the many things that constitute a teacher's success in the classroom; however, its report refers to a study that used student value-added data to determine a direct link between a student’s progress and his or her teacher’s academic capital. A similar study done in the state of Texas came to comparable conclusions that the skill level of a teacher informs the students’ success. While much of the discussion focuses on the general lack of qualifications held by some current educators in the system, the overarching theme is that the higher the qualifications and skill set, the better the outcome for the student.\n\nAs much as a teacher has a role in a child's development and ability to acquire the academic capital that will prepare him or her for further education, the role of the parent cannot be overlooked. The parents, to begin with, set the child up for the type of education he/she will receive early in life. The family’s economic background and locale will determine the type of school the child attends, therefore influencing the teachers the child will have, and ultimately informing the opportunity for academic capital. Aside from that, the culture of the family, what the family values and respects, will inform a child’s decision to attend higher education as opposed to joining the work force or pursuing alternate paths. Even if children do manage to step outside their family name and expectations, their family can still influence their academic capital. A child whose father attended an Ivy league school, for example, may still have more social clout than he would ordinarily have even if he himself did not attend college. Similarly, an individual from a working-class family, a first generation college student, may not attain full academic capital due to his familial association.\n\nBourdieu argues that academic capital is affected by cultural capital, and vice versa. If one has a high degree of schooling, then it is likely that he or she will have more cultural capital—perhaps skills in painting or music—because he or she has been in the education system longer. Similarly, those individuals who do not value education would not likely value the cultural practices that education enforces, like visiting museums or attending drama performances. In a study done by Javier Rojas regarding cultural capital and academic achievement in Mexico, by looking at the academic level and the participation in cultural activities (art gallery, opera, museum, symphony, etc.) of fifteen-year-olds in Mexico, the amount of cultural intake was directly proportional to the level of academic achievement in the students.\n\nHowever, it has been argued (Sullivan, A. 2007, Crook, C. 1997) that Bourdieu’s research on the different types of capital does not actually explain a relationship; rather that it simply demonstrates a cycle.\n\nThe definition and effects of academic capital have been widely contested for a variety of reasons. While Bourdieu initially claims that academic capital is simply measured by the duration of schooling, other studies have posited that factors such as family and social capital, as well as culture, affect academic capital.\n\nKeith Roe argues that academic capital is more than the duration of schooling. He states that “students from privileged backgrounds may squander their cultural inheritance and some students from less privileged backgrounds are able to overcome their cultural disadvantages as a result of exceptional ability and certain features of their family background.” This idea contrasts the notion that duration is the only measure of academic capital, since a student may go to four-year university while another goes to two-year junior college, but if the four-year student isn’t invested in academics he doesn’t utilize the capital.\n\nRoe believes that academic capital is the “guaranteed product of the interaction of cultural transmission by the family and by the school.” He explains that factors like economic and cultural capital affect the accumulation and retention of academic capital. Roe finds that social class influences the acquisition of academic capital:\n\n“A general opposition is found within each social class between the fractions richest in cultural capital and poorest in economic capital and those richest in economic capital and poorest in cultural capital. Those who have acquired the bulk of their cultural capital in and for school are found to have more 'classical', safer, cultural investments than those who have received a large cultural inheritance.” \n\nTherefore, economic capital and cultural capital have the ability to influence the type of academic capital that one accrues both within schools and at home. The fact that people who gain most of their cultural capital in schools are considered to have more legitimate tastes and preferences makes it seem like they have more academic capital in some cases.\n\nIn her dissertation \"The Effects of Secondary School Climate on Students' Academic Success,\" Margaret Johansson explores the idea that “connectedness to the school community of teachers and peers … allows the student to use the social capital of the school to maximize education gains.” It also addresses the “moderating effect of the parent-adolescent relationship on the link between school climate and academic outcomes,” which relates to the idea that academic capital isn’t just measured by the duration of schooling, but also the quality. Johansson addresses the idea that “family social capital and school social capital [are] determinants of secondary school success.” Two students who attend similar four-year colleges should have the same amount of social capital if duration of schooling is the only determinant, but it has been noted that students from certain social and cultural groups gain more academic capital than their peers.\n\nKevin Marjoribanks, a preeminent scholar in the international education community over several decades, argues that “family background, childhood social and academic capital, and adolescents' social capital combine to have medium to large associations with adolescents' aspirations.” He also indicates that “within encompassing family backgrounds, differences in educational outcomes should be examined in relation to children's and parents' perceptions of social and cultural capital and to variations in children's academic capital.” His analysis strengthens the argument that the duration of schooling (coupled with its quality) and family and social environments affect aspirations and success.\n\nSome have even argued that society's strong emphasis on gaining academic capital may be a cause of the high rates of cheating and plagiarism in schools. Since gaining academic capital may be the one way for those in academia to move up in their field, greater stress is placed on this form of capital, and therefore pressure can arise to do better than a scholar thinks he or she is capable of, leading them to cheat or plagiarize.\n\n"}
{"id": "5618128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5618128", "title": "Alfred Gell", "text": "Alfred Gell\n\nAlfred Antony Francis Gell, (; June 12, 1945 – January 28, 1997) was a British social anthropologist whose most influential work concerned art, language, symbolism and ritual. He was trained by Edmund Leach (MPhil, Cambridge University) and Raymond Firth (PhD, London School of Economics) and did his fieldwork in Melanesia and tribal India. Gell taught at the London School of Economics, among other places. He was also a Fellow of the British Academy. He died of cancer in 1997, at the age of 51.\n\nIn his 1998 book \"Art and Agency\", Gell formulated an influential theory of art based on abductive reasoning. Gell argues that 'art in general (although his attention focuses on visual artifacts, like the prows of the boats of the Trobriand islands) acts on its users, i.e. achieves agency, through a sort of technical virtuosity. Art can enchant the viewer, who is always a blind viewer, because \"the technology of enchantment is founded on the enchantment of technology\" (the title of a previous essay on aesthetics by Gell is \"The Technology of Enchantment and the Enchantment of Technology\", 1992). Gell closely follows different forms of effectiveness of 'technical virtuosity' of the artist. For him it comes to a stylistic virtuosity, able to get some sort of \"living presence response\", reacting to works of art as if they were living beings or even people acting (\"agency\"), entering into a personal relationship with them, triggering love, hate, desire or fear. In this way for Gell works of art, in all cultures, are able to create shared common sense, especially through reasoning with abduction, which already in Aristotle is a less strong inference than 'induction and deduction, more intuitive and concise. Gell takes it from the linguist Charles Sanders Peirce as a case of synthetic inference, where you are in very strange circumstances, which could be explained by the supposition that it is a case obedient to some rule, and therefore we adopt such a supposition.\n\nSo the artworks mediate the social agency. That is, using the logical mechanism of abduction: those who observe the works of art do abductions about the intentions of those who produced them, or even just exposed them to public use. The logical mechanism of aesthetical abduction for Gell is a transcultural one, specifically human. The enchantment of technology and the technology of enchantment in many pages of \"Art and Agency\" is exemplified with exotic customs of idolatry, fetishism and witchcraft.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52477230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52477230", "title": "Arabic WordNet", "text": "Arabic WordNet\n\nArabic WordNet is a WordNet for Arabic language, since its creation in 2006, it has been extended in 2015.\n"}
{"id": "14080344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14080344", "title": "Artistic tone", "text": "Artistic tone\n\nTone in an artistic context refers to the light and dark values used to render a realistic object, or to create an abstract composition. When using pastel, an artist may often use a colored paper support, using areas of pigment to define lights and darks, while leaving the bare support to show through as the mid-tone.\n\nWhen making a portrait for example heavy dark tones to represent a moody or dark side to a personality. Tone can also be used to make the face look three-dimensional, for example darker tones around the chin, nose and eyes; lighter tones on forehead, nose and cheeks.\n"}
{"id": "23205765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23205765", "title": "BEP Empire/Get Original", "text": "BEP Empire/Get Original\n\n\"BEP Empire/Get Original\" is a double A-side and the first single taken from the album \"Bridging the Gap\" by the Black Eyed Peas. It reached number 44 in the Hot Rap Singles chart.\n\nThe concept of the music video is an infomercial advertising a fictional \"Discover Hip Hop Set\". A different version of the song was also produced in collaboration with the band 311, released on 311's official website as a free download. An extended infomercial parody was also released on a promotional site for the single and later on the Black Eyed Peas website.\n\nThe music video for \"Get Original\" was set in an empty canyon. Black Eyed Peas are seen singing and break dancing in the video. Chali 2na is not featured in the video, however Taboo raps a verse in his place.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8500485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8500485", "title": "Babes in Toyland (1986 film)", "text": "Babes in Toyland (1986 film)\n\nBabes in Toyland is a 1986 television film directed by Clive Donner, and stars Keanu Reeves, Richard Mulligan and Drew Barrymore. It is based on the operetta of the same title by Victor Herbert and Glen MacDonough. This version features a new score by Leslie Bricusse along with select portions of Herbert's score. It was filmed on location in Munich, West Germany in the summer of 1986.\n\nIt was broadcast on NBC on December 19, 1986 and released on VHS in 1991. The European theatrical version was shortened to 94 minutes; this version was released worldwide on VHS.\nLisa Piper (Drew Barrymore), an eleven-year-old girl from Cincinnati, Ohio, takes care of her siblings and cooks for her family. She has no time for toys, and refuses to be treated as a child. During a blizzard on Christmas Eve, Lisa is transported to Toyland. She arrives just before Mary Contrary (Jill Schoelen) is to be wedded to the unpleasant Barnaby Barnacle (Richard Mulligan), although Mary loves Barnaby's nephew, Jack Nimble (Keanu Reeves). Lisa stops the wedding and, with her new friends, finds out that Barnaby plans to take over Toyland. Lisa, Mary, Jack, and Georgie Porgie (Googy Gress) go to the kindly Toymaster (Pat Morita) for help, but he can only help them if Lisa really believes in toys. Barnaby confronts them and the Toymaster, finally showing his true colors, and steals a flask containing distilled evil that the Toymaster had been collecting, before leaving Lisa and company to be eaten by Trollog, a vulture-like monster with a single enchanted eye that Barnaby uses to spy on his enemies. They escape by blinding Trollog with paint and locking him in a chest, but are captured and imprisoned one by one in Barnaby's hidden fortress.\n\nBarnaby reveals that he had been creating an army of trolls to take over Toyland, and then attempts to corrupt his captives into being his servants with the contents of the flask, stating he would replace Trollog with Lisa and make Mary his Troll Princess. However, Lisa proves to be immune to the evil, and manages to reverse the effects on her friends. After escaping from Barnaby's stronghold, they return to the Toymaster. When Barnaby unleashes his army of trolls upon Toyland, Lisa's newfound belief animates an army of life-sized toy soldiers that the Toymaster had created, and they drive Barnaby into the Forest of the Night. Having lost control of his creatures and having failed at making Lisa his new Trollog, Barnaby is then banished from Toyland. Jack and Mary are then married. Lisa is taken home by the Toymaster - who is revealed to be Santa Claus - in a sleigh with wooden reindeer. They travel across the Milky Way until she wakes up at home, as though it had all been a dream.\n\nMany deleted scenes were musical numbers such as Keanu Reeves (Jack) and Jill Schoelen (Mary) singing in jail or Drew Barrymore (Lisa) and the cast planning a jailbreak. Other transitional dialogue was missing from the European theatrical version; these deleted scenes were not featured on VHS.\n\n"}
{"id": "27112415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27112415", "title": "Beaman Monster", "text": "Beaman Monster\n\nIn Missouri folklore, the Beaman Monster is an entity named after the town of Beaman. Legends about the monster vary; some describe the creature as the spawn of a 12-foot-tall gorilla said to have escaped from a circus train, whereas others describe the monster as \"shaped like a wolf or coyote\". Tales regarding the Beaman Monster have been told for generations in the Sedalia area.\n"}
{"id": "1407348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1407348", "title": "Ceramics of indigenous peoples of the Americas", "text": "Ceramics of indigenous peoples of the Americas\n\nNative American pottery is an art form with at least a 7500-year history in the Americas. Pottery is fired ceramics with clay as a component. Ceramics are used for utilitarian cooking vessels, serving and storage vessels, pipes, funerary urns, censers, musical instruments, ceremonial items, masks, toys, sculptures, and a myriad of other art forms.\n\nDue to their resilience, ceramics have been key to learning more about Precolumbian indigenous cultures.\n\nThe clay body is a necessary component of pottery. Clay must be mined and purified in an often laborious process, and certain tribes have ceremonial protocols to gathering clay. Different tribes have different processes for processing clay, which can include drying in the sun, soaking in water for days, and repeatedly running through a screen or sieve. Acoma and other Pueblo pottery traditionally pound dry clay into a powder and then remove impurities by hand, then running the dry powder through a screen, mixing it with a dry temper, and then mixing water to create a plastic paste. In preparing the clay, potters spend hours wedging it to remove air pockets and humidity that could easily cause it to explode during firing. The clay then needs to \"cure\" over time.\n\nCoiling is the most common means of shaping ceramics in the Americas. In coiling, the clay is rolled into a long, thin strands that are coiled upon each other to build up the shape of the pottery. While the potter builds the coils up, she also blends them together until there was no trace of the ropes of clay entwined to form the pot, no deviation in the thickness of the walls, and therefore no weaknesses. Potter's wheels were not used prior to European contact and are only used today by a limited number of Native American artists. Pinch pots and other small clay objects could be formed directly by hand. Hohokam potters and their descendents in the American Southwest employed the paddle-and-anvil technique, in which the interior clay wall of a pot was supported by an anvil, while the exterior was beaten with a paddle, smoothing the surface. In precontact South America, ceramics were mass-produced using molds.\n\nSlip is a liquid clay suspension of mineral pigments applied to the ceramics before firing. Slips are typically red, buff, white, and black; however, Nazca culture ceramic artists in Peru perfected 13 distinct colors of slips. They also used a hand-rotated turntable that allowed all sides of a ceramic piece to be painted with ease. These were first used in 500 BCE and continue to be used today. Slips can be applied overall in washes, creating large color fields, often with cloth, or they can be painted in fine detail with brushes. Yucca leaves, chewed slightly to loosen fibers, make excellent brushes that are still in use today in the American Southwest. Negative painting is a technique employed by precontact Mississippian potters in the Eastern Woodlands, Mayan potters in Mesoamerica, and others, which involves covering the ceramic piece in beeswax or another resist, incised a design in the resist, then soaking the piece with a slip. In the firing process the resists melts away, leaving the colored design.\n\nWhile still green, pottery can be incised with designs. Cords, textiles, baskets, and corncobs have been rolled over wet clay, both as a decoration and to improve heat dispersion in cooking pots. Carved wood or ceramic stamping paddles are used throughout the Southeastern Woodlands to create repeating designs. Clay can also be added to the main ceramic structure to build up designs.\n\nBefore firing, ceramics can be burnished or polished to a fine sheen with a smooth instrument, usually a stone. Glazes are seldom used by indigenous American ceramic artists. Grease can be rubbed onto the pot as well.\n\nPrior to contact, pottery was usually open-air fired or pit fired; precontact Indigenous peoples of Mexico used kilns extensively. Today many Native American ceramic artists use kilns. In pit-firing, the pot is placed in a shallow pit dug into the earth along with other unfired pottery, covered with wood and brush, or dung, then set on fire whereupon it can harden at temperatures of 1400 degrees or more. Finally, the ceramics surface is often polished with smooth stones.\n\nTempers are non-plastic materials added to clay to prevent shrinkage and cracking during drying and firing of vessels made from the clay. Tempers may include:\n\nNot all Indigenous American pottery requires added tempers; some Hopi potters use pure kaolin clay that does not require tempering. Some clays naturally contain enough temper that they do not required additional tempers. This includes mica or sand in clays used in some Taos Pueblo, Picuris Pueblo, and Hopi pottery, and sponge spicules in the clay used to produce the \"chalky ware\" of the St. Johns culture.\n\nCeramics are often used to identify archaeological cultures. The type of temper (or mix of tempers) used helps to distinguish the ceramics produced by different cultures during particular time periods. Grog, sand, and sandstone were all used by Ancestral Pueblo people and other Southwestern cultures. Crushed bone was used as temper in at least some ceramics at a number of sites in Texas. In the Southeastern United States, the earliest ceramics were tempered with fiber such as Spanish moss and palmetto leaves. In Louisiana, fiber as tempering was replaced first by grog and later by shell. In peninsular Florida and coastal Georgia sand replaced fiber as tempering. Still later, freshwater sponge spicules became an important temper in the \"chalky ware\" of the St. Johns culture in northeastern Florida. Locally produced ceramics of the Lucayan people in the Bahamas were characterized by crushed conch shell tempering, as opposed to the quartz sand-tempered ware imported from Hispaniola.\n\nThe choice of temper used in ceramics was constrained by what was available, but changes in the choice of temper can provide clues to influence and trade relations between groups. Shell-tempered ware was produced sporadically in various places across the eastern United States, but in the late Woodland and early Mississippian periods it became the predominant temper used across much of the Mississippi Valley and middle gulf coast, and a major defining characteristic of Mississippian culture pottery.\n\nThe earliest ceramics known from the Americas have been found in the lower Amazon Basin. Ceramics from the Caverna de Pedra Pintada, near Santarém, Brazil, have been dated to 7,500 to 5,000 years ago. Ceramics from Taperinha, also near Santarém, have been dated to 7,000 to 6,000 years ago. Some of the sherds at Taperinho were shell-tempered, which allowed the sherds themselves to be radiocarbon dated. These first ceramics-making cultures were fishers and shellfish-gatherers.\n\nCeramics appeared next across northern South America and then down the western side of South America and northward through Mesoamerica. Ceramics of the Alaka culture in Guyana have been dated to 6,000 to 4,500 years ago. Ceramics of the San Jacinto culture in Colombia have been dated to about 4530 BCE, and at Puerto Hormiga, also in Colombia, to about 3794 BCE. Ceramics appeared in the Valdivia culture in Ecuador around 3200 BCE, and in the Pandanche culture in Peru around 2460 BCE.\n\nThe spread of ceramics in Mesoamerica came later. Ceramics from Monagrillo in Panama been dated to around 2140 BCE, from Tronadora in Costa Rica to around 1890 BCE, and from Barra in Guatemala to around 1682 BCE. Ceramics of the Purrón tradition in southcentral Mexico have been dated to around 1805 BCE, and from the Chajil tradition of northcentral Mexico, to around 1600 BCE.\n\nThe appearance of ceramics in the Southeastern United States does not fit the above pattern. Ceramics from the middle Savannah River in Georgia and South Carolina (known as Stallings, Stallings Island, or St. Simons) have been dated to about 2888 BCE (4500 BP), and ceramics of the Orange and Norwood cultures in northern Florida to around 2460 BCE (4300 BP) (all older than any other dated ceramics from north of Colombia). Ceramics appeared later elsewhere in North America. Ceramics reached southern Florida (Mount Elizabeth) by 4000 BP, Nebo Hill (in Missouri) by 3700 BP, and Poverty Point (in Louisiana) by 3400 BP.\n\nSeveral Inuit communities, such as the Netsilik, Sadlermiut, Utkuhiksalik, and Qaernerimiut created utilitarian pottery in historic times, primarily to store food. In Rankin Inlet, Nunavut, Canada, when the mine that employed much of the community closed down, the national government created the Rankin Inlet Ceramics Project, whose wares were successfully exhibited in Toronto in 1967. The project foundered but a local gallery revived interest in Inuit ceramics in the 1990s.\n\n\nGeological studies show that that certain areas of the southeastern portion of North America are rich in kaolins and ball clays (Hosterman, USGS), the types of plastic clays best suited for pottery. Clay beds which still produce ceramic clays are from primary and secondary deposits formed in the Late Paleocene and Early Miocene Epochs in formations that formed the Gulf Coastal Plain. According to all geological surveys the entire southeastern portion of the continent has abundant clay deposits, with the exception of all of south Florida and a portion of western central Florida (Calver) (Matson).\n\nFiber-tempered ceramics associated with shell middens left by Late Archaic hunter-fisher-gatherers appeared in the Atlantic coastal plain of Florida, Georgia and South Carolina starting in 2500 BC. The earliest attested pottery is in the Stallings culture area, around the middle Savannah River. Fiber-tempered pottery of the Orange culture in northeast Florida has been dated to 2000 BC or a bit earlier. Fiber-tempered pottery of very similar form spread along coasts and river valleys of the Southeastern United States from the Atlantic coast into Alabama, reaching northwestern Florida (Norwood culture) and the Gulf coast by 1300 BC, the interior Middle South by 1100, and Poverty Point by 1000 BC.\n\nThoms Creek ceramics closely resembled Stallings ceramics, but used more sand and less fiber as temper than Stalling or Orange ware. Thoms Creek ceramics were largely contemporary with Stalling and Orange ceramics, although no Thoms Creek ceramics have been found that are as early as the earliest Stallings. Thoms Creek ceramics overlapped Stallings ceramics in northern Georgia and southern South Carolina, but were the dominant tradition north of the Santee River into North Carolina.\n\nThe similarities of the Stallings series ceramics to the earlier Puerto Hormiga ceramics of Colombia, which were both associated with shell rings, and the presence of winds and ocean currents favoring journeys from South America to the Southeastern United States, led James A. Ford, among other archaeologists, to offer the hypothesis that the two areas had connections, and that the technology of fiber-tempered ceramics in the southeastern United States had been imported from Colombia. Other archaeologists have noted that there are no known archaeological sites between Colombia and Florida that are of a type or age consistent with such connections, and that the cultural traditions of the Southeastern United States show no significant changes associated with the appearance of ceramics, indicating that there was no migration or people, and no transfer of technology or other elements of culture, other than the appearance of ceramics.\n\nLater significant developments in ceramics in the Southeastern Woodlands included Mississippian culture pottery in the Mississippi River valley, and Weedon Island pottery, a style of pottery used primarily in ceremonial contexts and high status burials, produced and traded along the Gulf of Mexico coast from southwestern Florida to the Florida panhandle.\n\n\nIndigenous peoples of the Great Basin based their pottery on basketry. The Fremont culture of central Utah (700–1300 CE) developed pottery after adopting agriculture. Paiute and Washoe people in the western Great Basin developed plain, utilitarian ceramics separately, which was not burnished but occasionally featured red painted designs. The Owens Valley Brown Ware is an example of Paiute/Washoe ceramics, which was used for cooking, food storage, and water jugs. The jugs often featured clay handles that accommodated carrying straps.\n\n\n\nSouthern Athabaskans include the Apache and Navajo.\n\n\nCeramics first appeared in the Antilles as part of the Saladoid culture (named for the Saladero site in the Orinoco basin in Venezuela. Saladoid people appeared in Trinidad around 500 BC or a little later, and had reached Puerto Rico by about 250 BC. The Cedrosan variety of Saladoid ceramics appeared in Trinidad early on, although ceramics in the Antilles continued to closely resemble forms on the Venezuela coast into the Current Era. Cedrosan Saladoid vessels have a distinctive bell shape with \"zone-incised cross-hatching\". Many also have complex designs of white on red paint. Later examples were decorated with purple, black, yellow and orange paint. These ceramics are described as \"technologically fine, delicate, and graceful.\"\n\nOther ceramics styles are also known from the Antilles during this time period. Barrancoid trade wares, of a style that had developed in the Orinoco River valley around 1000 BC, have been found in the southernmost Antilles; Trinidad, Tobago, and Saint Vincent. A variant of Saladoid ceramics called Huecan has been found from the north coast of Venezuela to Puerto Rico.\n\nFiber-tempered ceramics associated with shell middens left by hunter-fisher-gatherers of the Early Northwest South American Literature appeared at sites such as Puerto Hormiga, Monsú, Puerto Chacho, and San Jacinto in Colombia by 3100 BCE. Fiber-tempered ceramics at Monsú have been dated to 5940 radiocarbon years before present. The fiber-tempered pottery at Puerto Hormiga was \"crude\", formed from a single lump of clay. The fiber-tempered pottery at San Jaginto is described as \"well-made\". Sand-tempered coiled ceramics have also been found at Puerto Horrible.\n\nRáquira, a town in the Boyacá Department, Colombia, is a major ceramics center, where both indigenous techniques and those introduced by Europeans are employed to create primarily utilitarian pots based on Chibcha designs. Ceramic mobiles, nativity scenes, and animal figurines are popular, especially ceramic horses, which have been the symbol of Colombian pottery.\n\nLa Chamba in the Tolima Department is known for its blackware. The women potters here also create brown and red ware.\n\nIn the Andes, ceramics appear during the Initial Period around 1800 BCE. They were needed for boiling agricultural foods Chavín potters on the Peruvian coast create distinctive stirrup spout vessels, both incised and highly burnished. These thin-walled effigy pots were fashioned to resemble stylized humans, plants, and animals. Two substyles of Chavín stirrup spout pots include the thicker-walls, glossy-on-matte blackware Cupisnique style and red and black Santa Ana style, both featuring fanged heads. Subsequent Andean cultures revived these ancient ceramics styles and imagery.\n\nParacas culture, from Peru's desert south coast, created highly detailed ceramics, that were often painted after firing. Paints, made with an acacia resin binder, were commonly warm yellow, olive green, red-orange, white, and black in color. Paracas artists built upon Chavín styles and introduced the double spout-and-bridge vessel and distinctive masks portraying a supernatural \"Oculate Being,\" that combines human, owl, and double-headed snake forms.\n\nNasca culture, another south coastal Peruvian culture, returned to the less fragile practice slip-painted their ceramics prior to firing. They created thirteen distinct colors, the larger palette found in Pre-Columbian ceramics in the Americas, which included rare pale purple, maroon, and bluish-grey. Nasca artists created ceremonial and utilitarian bowls and beakers, effigy jars, panpipes, and vessels of new designs, including the stepped-fret. These combined sculptural elements with surface painting, often with curvilinear designs emphasized by bold, black outlining. Painters used revolving turntables to paint all sides of a ceramic piece.\n\nDominating Peru's north coast from 1–600 CE, the Moche culture excelled at the art of ceramics, which was characterized by symbolic, religious imagery. Moche artists produced some of the more naturalistic, i.e. faithfully representational, artwork of the precolumbian Americas. Moche portrait vessel were so realistic that individuals portrayed at different stages of their life are identifiable. Their paintings on ceramics were narrative and action-packed. Ceramics produced by two-press molds were identical in shape but individualized through unique surface painting. Tens of thousands of Moche ceramics have survived today. The stirrup-spout vessel continued to be the most common form of clay vessel, but Moche artists also created bowls, dippers, jars with long necks, spout-and-handle vessels, and double-chambered vessels that whistled when liquid was poured. Vessels were often effigies portraying elaborate scenes. A fineline painting tradition emerged, which resembles Greek black-figure pottery. A 29,000-square-foot Moche ceramics workshop with numerous kilns was discovered in at the mountain Mayal in the Chicama Valley. The workshop specialized in female figurines.\n\nThe Tiwanaku and Wari cultures shared dominance of the Andes, roughly from 500 to 1000 BCE. The Tiwanaku civilizations originated in Lake Titicaca region of Bolivia, and a staff-bearing deity figured largely in their artwork. Tiwanaku artists continued the tradition of naturalistic, ceramic portrait vessels. The ubiquitous Wari ceramics carried over imagery from their textiles and metalwork, such as llama and alpaca imagery. Qunchupata in Peru was the epicenter of Wari ceramic production, featuring pit kilns and firing rooms. The stone floors of the firing rooms had rounded depressions for accommodating larger pots. Some Wari palaces had their own attached kilns. Broken potsherds were used as forms for building new pots and for scrapers. Evidence shows ceramics were often ritually destroyed.\n\nFour Andean civilizations flourished in Late Intermediate Period: the Chancay, Chimú, Lambayeque, and Ica. Luxury goods, including elaborate ceramics, were mass-produced in vast quantities for the middle class as well as nobles. Identical ceramics created in molds took sway over individualized works. The Lambayeque culture of north coastal Peru created press-molded reliefs on blackware ceramics. Chimú ceramics, also predominantly blackware, often featured zoomorphic appliqués, such as monkeys or sea birds. They excelled at the doubled-chambered whistling vessels. Chancay ceramics, from the central coast, featured black-on-white designs on unique shapes, such as female effigies or elongated, oval jars. Their sand-tempered ceramics were hastily painted and left unpolished. Ica culture ceramics, from the southern coasts, were the finest quality of their time. They were still handcrafted and had a wide range of polychrome slips, including black, maroon, orange, purple, red, white, and a glittery deep purple. Designs were abstract and geometric.\n\nThe Inca Empire or Tawantinsuyo spanned 3500 miles and controlled the world's largest empire by 1500 CE. Artistically, they unified regional styles. Incan ceramics were geometric and understated, while color schemes remained regionally diverse. Mass-produced pottery, conformed to standardized measurements, such as the urpu, a long-necked jar with handles and a pointed bottom used to transport maize and chicha, maize beer. \"Qirus\" were Incan drinking vessels, made from wood or precious metals, as well as ceramics.\n\nGuaraní ceramics fall into two major categories: \"na'e\", or dishes, and \"yapepó\", pots, pans, and storage containers. These were both utilitarian and ceremonial. The precontact ceramic tradition of the Gran Chaco was dramatically transformed under European colonization, which created a demand for pitchers, cups, and other introduced pottery forms. Author Josefina Pla observed that women are typically potters, and animals associated with men are not represented in Guaraní pottery.\n\nTobatí, a city near Asunción, Paraguay, is renowned for its ceramics, including tiles and female effigy jars, known as \"Las gorgas.\" A reddish-brown slip, known as \"tapyta\" in Guaraní, is popular, with blackware being less common. A local ceramic artist, Don Zenón Páez (b. 1927) became famous for his ceramic figures of saints.\n\nItá, Paraguay is another ceramic center, known for its whimsical, ceramic chickens. Rosa Brítez (b. 1941) is a famous ceramic artist from Itá and has been recognized by UNESCO.\n\nThe Museo del Barro, \"Museum of Mud,\" in Asunción features pottery from the Gran Chaco, from Pre-Columbian Guaraní to contemporary mestizo ceramics.\n\nThe pottery tradition at Pedra Pintada in Brazil represents the oldest known ceramics in the Americas. Dating back to 5630 BCE, this same tradition continued for 2500 years. Ceramics from the Taperinha site near Santarém, Brazil date back to 5130 BCE and include sand-tempered bowls and cooking vessels resembling gourds. Other ancient Amazonian ceramic traditions, Mina and Uruá-Tucumã featured shell- and sand-tempered pottery, that was occasionally painted red. Around 1000 CE, dramatic new ceramic styles emerged throughout Amazonia. Amazonian ceramics are geometric and linear in decoration. Polychrome pottery typically features red and black on white slips. Additionally ceramics were decorated by sculpting, incision, excision, and grooving. In the upper and central Amazon, the bark of the caraipé tree, \"Licania octandra\", provided tempering material.\n\nIn regions of terra preta, or \"black earth\", of the Amazon rainforest, an abundance of potsherds were used to develop the soil and build mounds, which protected buildings and cemeteries from seasonal flooding.\n\nMarajó Island, located at the mouth of the Amazon River was a major ceramic center, where the Marajoara Phase of polychrome ceramics last from around 400 to 1300 CE. In the central Amazon, the Mancapuru Phase, or Incised Rim Tradition, emerged in the 5th century CE. Marajoara ceramics, typically tempered with grog, were complex effigies of humans and animals, such as reptiles and birds. The dead were cremated and buried in elaborate ceramic urns. Ceramic artists are active in Marajó, using precontact styles for inspiration.\n\nWomen have traditionally been the ceramic artists in the Amazon. Female figures are common in anthropomorphic effigy vessels. Tangas are a unique Amazonian cultural item; they are triangular, concave ceramic pubic coverings held in place by strings, once worn by women of several Amazonian tribes. Today, they are still worn by girls during their puberty rites among Panoan-speaking peoples.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5426876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5426876", "title": "Ciampolo", "text": "Ciampolo\n\nCiampolo (also Giampolo, \"John Paul\") is the accepted name of a character in Dante's \"Divine Comedy\".\n\nCiampolo appears in Canto XXII of the Inferno, where he is a grafter in the fifth ditch of the eighth circle. Ciampolo is hooked by the devils (the Malebranche, \"Evil Claws\") that patrol that ditch, and pulled out of the boiling pitch where the grafters are immersed, which represents their sticky fingers and corrupt deals. Threatened by the devils, Ciampolo tells Dante the identity of some of the other grafters punished there. Ciampolo eventually tricks the devils, and makes his escape back to the boiling pitch.\n\nDante does not identify Ciampolo by name, but his name was provided by early commentators. Nothing else is really known about him other than the information provided by Dante: that he was born in Navarre, that his father was a wastrel, and that he served King Theobald II of Navarre.\n\n"}
{"id": "5251321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5251321", "title": "Collective effervescence", "text": "Collective effervescence\n\nCollective effervescence (CE) is a sociological concept introduced by Émile Durkheim. According to Durkheim, a community or society may at times come together and simultaneously communicate the same thought and participate in the same action. Such an event then causes collective effervescence which excites individuals and serves to unify the group.\n\nCollective effervescence is the basis for Émile Durkheim's theory of religion as laid out in his 1912 volume \"Elementary Forms of Religious Life\". Durkheim argues that the universal religious dichotomy of profane and sacred results from the lives of these tribe members: most of their life is spent performing menial tasks such as hunting and gathering. These tasks are profane. The rare occasions on which the entire tribe gathers together become sacred, and the high energy level associated with these events gets directed onto physical objects or people which also become sacred.\n\nThe force is thus associated with the totem which is the symbol of the clan, mentioned by Durkheim in his study of \"elementary forms\" of religion in Aboriginal societies. Because it provides the tribe's name, the symbol is present during the gathering of the clan. Its presence during these scenes, the totem comes to represent both the scene and the strong emotional felt, thus becoming a collective representation of the group.\n\nFor Durkheim, religion is a fundamentally social phenomenon. The beliefs and practices of the sacred are a method of social organization. This explanation is detailed in \"Elementary Forms\" \"Book 2/The Elementary Beliefs\", chapter 7, \"Origins of These Beliefs: Origin of the Idea of the Totemic Principle or Mana\". According to Durkheim, \"god and society are one of the same…the god of the clan…can be none other than the clan itself, but the clan transfigured and imagined in the physical form of a plant or animal that serves as a totem.\"\n\nThe group members experience a feeling of a loss of individuality and unity with the gods and according to Durkheim, thus with the group.\n\n"}
{"id": "42066962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42066962", "title": "Crackdust", "text": "Crackdust\n\nCrackdust is a death metal band from Botswana. Crackdust plays an aggressive style of Death Metal. Their themes are the undead, hatred and violence.\n\nCrackdust was founded at the beginning of 2006 by Roth (vocals, electric guitar), S'Bond (bass) and Dlax (drums). The band released the first single \"Deranged Psychopath\" the same year. Their debut album, \"Dented Reality\" was published in December 2007. Mid-2008, Lee came as the new bassist for the band. The previous bassist S'Bond became the second guitarist of the band.\n\nIn early September 2008 Crackdust was the opening band of the Botswana Woodstock. In 2011 they released a second single \"Return of the Gods\".\n\nThey are referenced by Lance in season two of Detectorists on BBC.\n\nThey're known for the slower tempos of their songs. Stylistically, the songs resemble a mixture of Bolt Thrower and Dan Swanö's slower works. The music of Crackdust has been compared to the works of Cannibal Corpse.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082608", "title": "Deckchair", "text": "Deckchair\n\nA deckchair (or deck chair) is a folding chair, usually with a frame of treated wood or other material. The term now usually denotes a portable folding chair, with a single strip of fabric or vinyl forming the backrest and seat. It is meant for leisure, originally on the deck of an ocean liner or cruise ship. It is easily transportable and stackable, although some styles are notoriously difficult to fold and unfold. Different versions may have an extended seat, meant to be used as a leg rest, whose height may be adjustable; and may also have arm rests.\n\nIn Northern Europe, the remains of folding chairs have been found dating back to the Bronze Age. Foldable chairs were also used in Ancient Egypt, Greece and Rome. During the Middle Ages, the folding chair was widely used as a liturgical furniture piece . \n\nIn the United States, an early patent for a folding chair was by John Cham in 1855. Folding wooden chairs with woven or cane seats and backs, of the type now known in the UK as \"steamer chairs\", began to be used on ocean liner decks from about the 1860s, and were known at the time as \"deck chairs\". It is unclear whether they were first made in the US or Britain. In England, John Thomas Moore (1864-1929) took out a patent for adjustable and portable folding chairs in 1886, and started manufacturing them in Macclesfield. Moore made two types: the Waverley, described as \"the best ship or lawn tennis chair\", and the Hygienic, which was a rocking chair \"valuable for those with sluggish and constipated bowels\".\n\nEarly versions of the deck chair were made of two rectangular wooden frames hinged together, with a third rectangle to maintain it upright. A rectangular piece of canvas, of the type used in hammocks, was attached to two of the wooden rectangles to provide a seat and support. The use of a single broad strip of canvas, originally olive green in colour but later usually of brightly coloured stripes, has been credited to a British inventor named Atkins in the late 19th century, although advertisements of 1882 for a similar design refer to it as \"The Yankee Hammock Chair\", implying an American origin. Other sources refer to it as the \"Brighton beach chair\" or \"\"chaise transatlantique\" (\"chaise transat\"\"). The term 'deck' chair was used in the novels of E. Nesbit in the 1880s, and passengers on P & O liners in the 1890s were encouraged to take their own on board. The classic deckchair can only be locked in one position. Later, the strips of wood going toward the back were lengthened and equipped with supports so that there were several possible sitting positions. A removable footrest can also add to the comfort of the user.\n\nFolding deckchairs became widely popular in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. During the golden age of ocean liner travel, the deckchairs upon ships' decks were sometimes reserved for particular passengers for whom crew would attach a paperboard name tag to the wicker seat-back. Such a tag is visible on an empty deckchair near the center in a famous 1912 photo showing survivors of the \"RMS Titanic\" disaster after rescue while they rest on the deck of \"RMS Carpathia\". The same system was in use aboard \"Carpathia\" two years later; a reservation tag is visible on the empty deckchair in the lower right of a 1914 photo. The deckchairs shown on some of those photographs are of the more solid \"steamer chair\" type, rather than the portable canvas-seated chairs. The \"Titanic\" carried 600 such wooden chairs; six were known to survive, of which one was sold in 2001 for £35,000, and another was put up for sale in 2012 with an expected price of at least £62,000.\n\nThe hiring out of deckchairs, on an hourly or daily basis, became established in British seaside resorts, often for use on piers and promenades, in the early 20th century. They were also often used in large public parks such as Hyde Park, and for spectators at informal sporting events such as local cricket matches. With the widespread availability of lighter and even more portable forms of seating later in the century, the use of deckchairs declined. In one of the largest English resorts, Blackpool, 68,000 deckchairs were rented out in 2003, at £1.50 a day, but tourism officers suggested that they should be phased out, except on the piers themselves, because they were a reminder of the era of \"cloth caps\", and had \"had their time in the 50s and 60s\".\n\nA sunlounger is somewhat like a deckchair, and bed-like in nature. The rear surface can be tilted up to allow the user to sit up and read, or it can be reclined to a flat surface to allow sleeping in the horizontal position.\n\nTo \"rearrange the deck chairs\" is a popular saying meaning that things have changed only apparently. The phrase, \"rearrange the deck chairs on the Titanic\" amplifies on it by implying that someone is overly concerned with unimportant minutiae during a crisis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44166368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44166368", "title": "Didáctica Tecnológica", "text": "Didáctica Tecnológica\n\nTechnological didactics is an English translation of \"Didáctica Tecnológica\", a common term in Spanish educational discourse. It refers to the study of the influence of technology upon didactics. This field seeks to elucidate the role of technology within the various educational settings, and its direct and indirect influence upon the process of teaching and learning.\n\nIt starts with a specific analysis of each of the didactic components: objectives, content, method, medium, evaluation, and organizational forms; and finally a high-level analysis of the relationships among each of those components, always incorporating the technological component.\n\nAs a distinct body of knowledge relating to teaching methods, technological didactics developed during the 1990s, with the introduction of new technology into teaching. Linguistic, cultural, and cognitive perspectives have all contributed.\n"}
{"id": "172299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=172299", "title": "Dumbo", "text": "Dumbo\n\nDumbo is a 1941 American animated film produced by Walt Disney Productions and released by RKO Radio Pictures. The fourth Disney animated feature film, it is based upon the storyline written by Helen Aberson and Harold Pearl, and illustrated by Helen Durney for the prototype of a novelty toy (\"Roll-a-Book\"). The main character is Jumbo Jr., a semi-anthropomorphic elephant who is cruelly nicknamed \"Dumbo\", as in \"dumb\". He is ridiculed for his big ears, but in fact he is capable of flying by using his ears as wings. Throughout most of the film, his only true friend, aside from his mother, is the mouse, Timothy – a relationship parodying the stereotypical animosity between mice and elephants.\n\n\"Dumbo\" was released on October 23, 1941; made to recoup the financial losses of \"Fantasia\", it was a deliberate pursuit of simplicity and economy for the Disney studio. At 64 minutes, it is one of Disney's shortest animated features. Sound was recorded conventionally using the RCA System. One voice was synthesized using the Sonovox system, but it, too, was recorded using the RCA System.\n\nIn 2017, the film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant\".\n\nA live-action adaptation of the film directed by Tim Burton is scheduled to be released on March 29, 2019.\n\nA flock of storks delivers babies while circus animals are being transported by train from their \"Winter Quarters\". Mrs. Jumbo, one of the elephants, receives her baby, who is soon made fun of by the other elephants because of his large ears, and they nickname him \"Dumbo\". After locking the elephants, Mrs. Jumbo starts to cuddle Dumbo.\n\nWhen a storm comes, the elephants have to help set up the circus tents. Afterwards, they have a parade through town. However, Dumbo ends up in a muddy puddle, so Mrs. Jumbo has to wash him. When a group of boys torment Dumbo, Mrs. Jumbo responds by attacking one of the boys and, losing her temper in the confusion. Mrs. Jumbo is deemed mad and tossed into a cage. Dumbo is shunned by the other elephants, and with no parent to care for him, he is now alone. Timothy Q. Mouse, who feels sympathy for Dumbo and becomes determined to help regain his spirits, appoints himself as Dumbo's mentor and protector.\n\nAfter being secretly encouraged by Timothy, the circus director makes Dumbo the top of an elephant pyramid stunt. The performance goes awry as Dumbo trips over his ears and misses his target, causing the other elephants to suffer various injuries, and bring down the big top. Dumbo is made into a clown as a result, officially having the other elephants deem him no longer one of them, and plays the main role in an act that involves him falling into a vat of pie filling. Despite his newfound popularity and fame, Dumbo dislikes this job, and is now more miserable than ever.\n\nTo cheer Dumbo up, Timothy takes him to visit his mother; on the way back, Dumbo cries and then starts to hiccup, so Timothy takes him for a drink of water from a bucket which, unknown to them, has accidentally had a bottle of champagne knocked into it by the clowns. As a result, Dumbo and Timothy both become drunk, and see hallucinations of pink elephants.\n\nThe next morning, Dumbo and Timothy wake up in a tree, but soon fall into a lake; Timothy wonders how they got up in the tree, and concludes that Dumbo flew up there using his large ears as wings. With the help from a group of crows, Timothy is able to get Dumbo to fly again, using a psychological trick of a \"magic feather\" to boost his confidence.\n\nBack at the circus, Dumbo performs the same stunt, which involves jumping from a high building. On the way down, Dumbo loses the feather; Timothy quickly tells him that the feather was never magical, and that he is still able to fly. Dumbo is able to pull out of the dive and flies around the circus, finally striking back at his tormentors as a stunned audience looks on in amazement. After this performance, Dumbo becomes a media sensation, Timothy becomes his manager, and Dumbo and Mrs. Jumbo are given a private car on the circus train.\n\nThe voice actors are uncredited for their roles in the film.\n\n\"Dumbo\" is based upon a children's story written by Helen Aberson and Harold Pearl, with illustrations by Helen Durney, that was prepared to demonstrate the prototype of a toy storytelling display device called Roll-A-Book, which was similar in principle to a panorama. It involved only eight drawings and just a few lines of text, and had Red Robin as Dumbo's ally instead of Timothy Mouse.\n\n\"Dumbo\" was first brought to the attention of Walt Disney in late 1939 by Disney's head of merchandise licensing Kay Kamen, who showed a prototype of the Roll-A-Book that included \"Dumbo\". Disney immediately grasped its possibilities and heartwarming story and purchased the rights to it.\n\nOriginally it was intended to be a short film; however, Disney soon found that the only way to do justice to the book was to make it feature-length. At the time, the Disney Studio was in serious financial trouble due to the war in Europe, which caused \"Pinocchio\" and \"Fantasia\" to fail at the box office, with the result that \"Dumbo\" was intended to be a low-budget feature designed to bring revenue to the studio. Storymen Dick Huemer and Joe Grant were the primary figures in developing the plot. They wrote the script in chapters, much like a book, an unusual way of writing a film script. Regardless of this, very little was changed from the original draft.\n\nNone of the voice actors for \"Dumbo\" received screen credit, much like in \"Snow White\" and \"Pinocchio\". Timothy Mouse was voiced by Edward Brophy, a character actor known for portraying gangsters. He has no other known animation voice credit. The semi-antagonistic circus director was voiced by Herman Bing, a German-American character actor remembered for his wild-eyed facial expressions and thick German accent in several comedy works. The pompous matriarch of the elephants was voiced by Verna Felton, who also voiced the Fairy Godmother in \"Cinderella\", the Queen of Hearts in \"Alice in Wonderland\", and Flora of the Three Good Fairies in \"Sleeping Beauty\". Other voice actors include the perennial Sterling Holloway in appearing as Mr. Stork, Cliff Edwards, better known as the voice of Jiminy Cricket, as Jim Crow, the leader of the crows, and John McLeish, best known for narrating the Goofy \"How To\" cartoons, providing the opening narration.\n\nWhen the film went into production in early 1941, supervising director Ben Sharpsteen was given orders to keep the film simple and inexpensive. As a result, \"Dumbo\" lacks the lavish detail of the previous three Disney animated features (\"Fantasia\", \"Pinocchio\", and \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\"): character designs are simpler, background paintings are less detailed, and a number of held cels (or frames) were used in the character animation. Although the film is more \"cartoony\" than previous Disney films the animators brought elephants and other animals into the studio to study their movement.\n\nWatercolor paint was used to render the backgrounds. \"Dumbo\" is one of the few Disney features to use the technique, which was also used for \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\", and regularly employed for the various Disney cartoon shorts. The other Disney features used oil paint and gouache. 2002's \"Lilo & Stitch\", which drew influences from \"Dumbo\", also made use of watercolor backgrounds.\n\nDuring the production of \"Dumbo\", Herbert Sorrell, leader of the Screen Cartoonist's Guild, demanded Disney sign with his union, rather than the IATSE, with which Disney had already signed. Disney declined, saying that he would put it to a vote. Sorrel again demanded that Disney sign with his union, but Disney once again refused. On May 29, 1941, shortly after rough animation on \"Dumbo\" was complete, much of the Disney studio staff went on strike. A number of strikers are caricatured in the feature as clowns who go to \"hit the big boss for a raise\". The strike lasted five weeks, and ended the \"family\" atmosphere and camaraderie at the studio.\n\nCompleted in fall 1941, Disney's distributor RKO Radio Pictures initially balked at the film's 64-minute length and wanted Disney to either make it longer, edit it down to a short subject length, or allow them to release it as a B-movie. Disney refused all three options, and RKO reluctantly issued \"Dumbo\", unaltered, as an A-film.\n\n\nOn \"\", \"Pink Elephants on Parade\" is included on the , \"Baby Mine\" is on the , and \"When I See an Elephant Fly\" is on the . On \"Disney's Greatest Hits\", \"Pink Elephants on Parade\" is on the red disc.\n\nThis was one of the first of Disney's animated films to be broadcast, albeit severely edited, on television, as part of Disney's anthology series.\n\nAlong with \"Alice in Wonderland\", Dumbo was the first of Disney's canon of animated films to be released on home video. The film was originally released on June 26, 1981 on VHS and Betamax, followed by a Laserdisc release in June 1982 and then once again on VHS and Betamax as part of \"Walt Disney Classics\" Video Collection release on December 3, 1985.\n\nThe film was then remastered in 1986 and 1989 and released on VHS and Laserdisc as a 50th Anniversary Edition of Dumbo on July 12, 1991, followed by an October 28, 1994 VHS and Laserdisc release as a part of the Walt Disney Masterpiece Collection. On October 23, 2001, a 60th Anniversary Edition was released in VHS and DVD formats. In 2006, a \"Big Top Edition\" of the film was released on DVD, followed by a UK Special Edition release in May 2007.\n\nA 70th Anniversary Edition of the film was released in the United States on September 20, 2011. The 70th Anniversary Edition was produced in two different packages: a 2-disc Blu-ray/DVD combo pack and a 1-disc DVD. The film was also released as a movie download. All versions of the 70th Anniversary Edition contain deleted scenes and several bonus features, including \"Taking Flight: The Making of Dumbo\" and \"The Magic of Dumbo: A Ride of Passage,\" while the 2-disc Blu-ray version additionally includes games, animated shorts, and several exclusive features.\n\nThe film was re-released on Blu-ray and DVD on April 26, 2016 to celebrate its 75th anniversary.\n\nDespite the advent of World War II, \"Dumbo\" was still the most financially successful Disney film of the 1940s. After its October 23 release, \"Dumbo\" proved to be a financial miracle compared to other Disney films. The simple film only cost $950,000 () to produce, half the cost of \"Snow White\", less than a third of the cost of \"Pinocchio\", and certainly less than the expensive \"Fantasia\". \"Dumbo\" eventually grossed $1.6 million () during its original release; it and \"Snow White\" were the only two pre-1943 Disney features to turn a profit. The film was re-released in theaters in 1949, 1959, 1972, and 1976.\n\nReviews for the film at its initial release were largely positive. \"Variety\" said that \"Dumbo\" was \"a pleasant little story, plenty of pathos mixed with the large doses of humor, a number of appealing new animal characters, lots of good music, and the usual Disney skillfulness in technique\". Cecilia Ager, writing in \"PM\", called \"Dumbo\" \"the nicest, kindest Disney yet\", and Bosley Crowther, film critic for \"The New York Times\", said that the film was \"the most genial, the most endearing, the most completely precious cartoon feature film ever to emerge from the magical brushes of Walt Disney's wonder-working artists\". \"TIME\" responded to the reception of the film with plans to name the character as its \"Mammal of the Year\" (a play on its annual \"Man/Person of the Year\" honor), with an appearance on the cover of the magazine's edition of December 29, 1941. However, the attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7 of that year shifted the news cycle away from \"Dumbo\", although the previously planned essay on the film, with a more appropriate introduction, appeared in the December 29 issue's \"Cinema\" section.\n\nToday, the film holds a 97% rating at movie aggregator Rotten Tomatoes. Film critic Leonard Maltin described it as \"One of Walt Disney's most charming animated films\". In 2011, \"TIME\" named it one of \"The 25 All-TIME Best Animated Films\".\n\n\"Dumbo\" won the 1941 Academy Award for Best Original Score, awarded to musical directors Frank Churchill and Oliver Wallace. Churchill and lyricist Ned Washington were also nominated for the Academy Award for Best Original Song for \"Baby Mine\" (the song that plays during Dumbo's visit to his mother's cell), but did not win for this category. The film also won Best Animation Design at the 1947 Cannes Film Festival.\n\nThe film is recognized by American Film Institute in these lists:\n\nWriter Richard Schickel charged that the crow characters in the film are African-American stereotypes in his book, \"The Disney Version\" (1968). The leader crow, played by Cliff Edwards, was originally named \"Jim Crow\" for script purposes. However, all of the other crows were voiced by African-American actors, who were all members of the popular all-black Hall Johnson Choir. Despite suggestions by writers such as Schickel who have criticized the portrayal as racist, other writers have rejected these claims. Defenders note that the crows form the majority of the characters in the movie who are sympathetic to Dumbo's plight, that they are free spirits who bow to no one, and that they are intelligent characters aware of the power of self-confidence, unlike the Stepin Fetchit stereotype common in the previous decade. Furthermore, the crows' song \"When I See An Elephant Fly\", which uses intricate wordplay in the lyrics, is oriented more toward mocking Timothy Mouse than Dumbo's large ears.\n\nIn July 2017, after being inaugurated as a Disney Legend, Whoopi Goldberg expressed a desire for the crow characters to be merchandised by Disney, \"because those crows sing the song in \"Dumbo\" that everybody remembers.\"\n\n\"Dumbo's Circus\" is a live-action/puppet television series for preschool audiences that aired on The Disney Channel in the 1980s. Unlike in the film, Dumbo spoke on the show. Each character would perform a special act, which ranged from dancing and singing to telling knock knock jokes.\n\n\nDumbo the Flying Elephant is a popular ride that appears in Disneyland, Walt Disney World's Magic Kingdom, Tokyo Disneyland, Disneyland Park (Paris), and Hong Kong Disneyland.\n\nThe Casey Jr. Circus Train is an attraction found at Disneyland and Disneyland Paris.\n\nIn June 2009, Disneyland introduced a flying Dumbo to their nighttime fireworks show, in which the elephant flies around Sleeping Beauty Castle while fireworks synched to music go off.\n\nCasey Junior is the second float in the Main Street Electrical Parade and its versions. Casey, driven by Goofy, pulls a drum with the parade logo and Mickey Mouse and Minnie Mouse.\n\nDumbo appears in the popular PlayStation 2 game \"Kingdom Hearts\" in the form of a summon that the player can call upon in battle for aid. Sora, the protagonist, flies on him and Dumbo splashes enemies with water from his trunk.\n\nThe Ringmaster appears as one of four villains in \"Disney's Villains' Revenge\". In the game, the Disney Villains alter the happy endings from Jiminy Cricket's book; in particular, the Ringmaster forces Dumbo to endlessly perform humiliating stunts in his circus. In the end, the Ringmaster is defeated when he is knocked unconscious by a well-aimed custard pie.\n\nIn 2001, the \"60th Anniversary Edition\" DVD of \"Dumbo\" featured a sneak peek of the proposed sequel \"Dumbo II\", including new character designs and storyboards. Robert C. Ramirez (\"\") was to direct the sequel, in which Dumbo and his circus friends navigated a large city after being left behind by their traveling circus. \"Dumbo II\" also sought to explain what happened to Dumbo's father, Mr. Jumbo. Dumbo's circus friends included the chaotic twin bears Claude and Lolly, the curious zebra Dot, the older, independent hippo Godfry, and the adventurous ostrich Penny. The animals were metaphors for the different stages of childhood. \"Dumbo II\" was supposed to be set on the day immediately following the end of the first \"Dumbo\" movie. John Lasseter cancelled \"Dumbo II\", soon after being named Chief Creative Officer of Walt Disney Animation Studios in 2006.\n\nOn July 8, 2014, Walt Disney Pictures announced that a live-action adaptation of \"Dumbo\" was in development. In the same announcement, Ehren Kruger was confirmed as the screenwriter, as well as co-producer with Justin Springer. On March 10, 2015, Tim Burton was announced as the director. On January 11, 2017, it was reported that Will Smith is in talks to star in the remake as the father of some children who befriend Dumbo. That same day, it was revealed that Tom Hanks had reportedly been offered to play the film's villain. The following month, it was announced that Smith would not be starring in the film. Smith had apparently passed on the project due to a disagreement over salary and scheduling as well as to star in \"Bad Boys for Life\". In March 2017, it was reported that Eva Green was in talks to play a trapeze artist. Following this announcement, Danny DeVito was cast as a ringleader named Medici. Two weeks later, it was reported that Colin Farrell had entered negotiations to play the role of Holt, which was originally offered to Will Smith. On April 4, 2017, Michael Keaton, Burton's former frequent collaborator, entered talks to star as the villain. Keaton confirmed his involvement with the film on June 26, 2017. Filming will be taking place at Cardington Studios in Bedfordshire, England. On July 15, 2017, Disney announced the casting for all of the principal roles and that the film would be released on March 29, 2019. DeObia Oparei, Joseph Gatt and Alan Arkin will also play new characters created for the film.\n\n"}
{"id": "30040694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30040694", "title": "Environmental Mutagenesis and Genomics Society", "text": "Environmental Mutagenesis and Genomics Society\n\nThe Environmental Mutagen Society (EMS) is a scientific society \"for the promotion of critical scientific knowledge and research into the causes and consequences of damage to the genome and epigenome in order to inform and support national and international efforts to ensure a healthy, sustainable environment for future generations.\"\n\nThe society promotes scientific research into the causes of DNA damage and repair and the relevance of these to disease. It also promotes the application and communication of this knowledge, especially through education, to help protect human health and the environment.\n\nThe society was formed in the USA in 1969 by Drs. Alexander Hollaender, Joshua Lederberg, James Crow, Ernst Freese, James Neel, William Russell, Heinrich Malling, Frederick J. de Serres, Matthew Meselson, and others.\nThe initial aim was to support the study of environmental mutagenesis, originally in germ-cell mutagenesis, but the scope soon expanded to include all areas of mutagenesis, including mutational mechanisms, test methods, molecular epidemiology, biomarkers, and risk assessment.\n\nIn 1969 the EMS established the Environmental Mutagen Information Center (EMIC) at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, which developed the first bibliographic database on environmental mutagenesis, facilitating research throughout the 1970s and early 1980s, particularly the development of tests for genetic toxicology, through the establishment of a register of substances tested for toxicity.\nThis, in turn, contributed significantly to the GENE-TOX program, established by Drs. Angela Auletta and Michael D. Waters at the US EPA and it now forms part of TOXNET. \n\nDuring the early 1970s, the society played a significant part in the development of the US Toxic Substances Control Act of 1976, enabling the United States Environmental Protection Agency to include mutagenicity data in regulatory decisions.\n\nThe EMS \"Committee 17\", chaired by John W. Drake, published an influential position paper; “Environmental Mutagenic Hazards”, in Science in 1975. This described the research needs and regulatory responsibility for managing potential mutagenic compounds in the environment. It influenced research direction, regulatory procedures and mutagenicity testing within industry.\n\nIn 1970 the EMS established the book series \"Chemical Mutagens: Principles and Methods for Their Detection\" and the first volume was published in the following year. This has included a number of influential papers, from the first by Dr. Bruce N. Ames on the Salmonella (Ames) mutagenicity assay.\n\nIn 1979, the EMS began publishing its own journal, \"Environmental Mutagenesis\", renamed \"Environmental and Molecular Mutagenesis\" in 1987.\n\nThe society has met annually since its formation. The next annual meeting will be the 42nd and will be held in Montreal, Quebec, October 15–19, 2011.\n\nThe EMS makes three major awards. Every year it awards the \"EMS Award\" in recognition of \"outstanding research contributions in the area of environmental mutagenesis\" and the \"Alexander Hollaender Award\" in recognition of \"outstanding contributions in the application of the principles and techniques of environmental mutagenesis to the protection of human health\". From time to time it also awards the \"EMS Service Award\" in recognition of \"long-standing dedication and service to the Society\".\n\nThe EMS also makes a number of student and travel awards to promote and support the interests of the society.\n\nThe EMS is a member organisation of the International Association of Environmental Mutagen Societies (IAEMS) and the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.\n"}
{"id": "39375661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39375661", "title": "Epanodos", "text": "Epanodos\n\nEpanodos is a figure of speech used when the same word or two similar words are repeated within a passage of text.\n"}
{"id": "3619084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3619084", "title": "Esclarmonde", "text": "Esclarmonde\n\nEsclarmonde () is an opéra () in four acts and eight tableaux, with prologue and epilogue, by Jules Massenet, to a French libretto by Alfred Blau and Louis Ferdinand de Gramont. It was first performed on 15 May 1889 by the Opéra-Comique at the Théâtre Lyrique on the Place du Châtelet in Paris.\n\n\"Esclarmonde\" is perhaps Massenet's most ambitious work for the stage and is his most \"Wagnerian\" in style and scope. In orchestral coloring and structure of melody, however, it follows French traditions. The opera has been revived sporadically in the modern era, most notably during the 1970s with Joan Sutherland, conducted by Massenet champion Richard Bonynge. The role of Esclarmonde is notoriously difficult to sing, with stratospheric coloratura passages that are possible for only the most gifted of performers.\n\nThe story of the opera is based on the medieval chivalric tale \"Parthénopéus de Blois\", which was written in the middle of the 12th century by Denis Pyramus. In the original tale, however, the protagonist sorceress is called \"Melior\"; Esclarmonde's name was borrowed from another \"chanson de geste\" of the 13th century: \"Huon de Bordeaux\". Although the Esclarmonde who appears in \"Huon\" is completely different from her operatic counterpart, \"Huon\" clearly served as the basis of at least part of the opera's libretto. Alfred Blau discovered \"Parthénopéus\" in 1871 in the library of Blois, where he took refuge during the time of the Paris Commune. The libretto was originally called \"Pertinax\"; it was first drafted in prose and later versified by Blau's collaborator, Louis de Gramont. In that form – a romantic melodrama in five acts – it was offered in 1882 to the Belgian composer François-Auguste Gevaert, who, however, declined to set it. Soon the libretto found its way into Massenet's hands, though the precise circumstances in which this occurred remain a mystery.\n\nOn 1 August 1886, Massenet and his publisher Georges Hartmann attended a performance of \"Parsifal\" at the Bayreuth Festival, an event which deeply impressed the composer and had a significant influence on his music. He had already seen the entire \"Ring cycle\" when it was produced in Brussels in 1883.\n\nIn his \"Memoirs\", which were compiled in 1911 near the end of his life, Massenet ascribes the creation of the role of \"Esclarmonde\" to a chance meeting with Sybil Sanderson sometime in the spring of 1887. He recounts how he was astonished by the range and capacity of her voice, realizing at once that she was the perfect choice for the heroine of his new opera, which he had begun to compose at end of 1886. It is almost certain, however, that he had received the libretto to \"Esclarmonde\" much earlier than that, and the meeting with Sybil Sanderson served rather as an additional catalyst – a stimulus to complete the opera. The work was commissioned as a spectacular event to open the Paris Exposition of 1889. During the most intensive period of creation in the summer of 1887, Massenet moved into the Grand Hotel in Vevey, where Miss Sanderson was also staying; there he rehearsed with her each evening the various sections of his new opera as he composed them. The opera was completed by the end of 1888, and stage rehearsals started at Opéra-Comique. Massenet dedicated the work to Sybil Sanderson in gratitude, allowing her signature to stand alongside his own in the manuscript of the score.\n\nAfter a very successful initial run, however, the opera disappeared from the repertoire and fell into almost complete oblivion. Soon afterwards Sybil Sanderson fell ill. When she died around the start of the 20th century, it seems that Massenet himself lost interest in the opera he had written for her and he discouraged any further productions. The work was not revived until 1923, well after the composer's death. Some short-lived revivals then followed, either staged or in concert performance. It was only in the 1970s that the efforts of Richard Bonynge and Joan Sutherland brought \"Esclarmonde\" back to life. Since then the work has been performed more frequently.\n\nListing below are partially based on (extracted from) \n\nWithin the next few years performances in France are staged also at Bordeaux (with Mme. Georgette Bréjean-Silver Bréjean-Graviére), and Lyons (with Mme. Verheyden aka Alice Verlet, and Mlle. Marie Vuillaume);\n\n\nThe story is based on a medieval legend and revolves around Esclarmonde, an empress and sorceress of Byzantium. Sequestered by her emperor father, Phorcas, who has recently abdicated the throne to her, she bemoans her love for Roland, a knight and Count of Blois, believing she will never be allowed to be with him. Following a suggestion from her sister, Parséïs, Esclarmonde uses her magic powers to transfer Roland to the magic island where she joins him and continues to do so on a nightly basis and, hiding behind a veil, never reveals her identity. She reveals to him also that his country is in danger, attacked and besieged by the Saracens, and grants him a magic sword with which he will be capable of defeating the enemy. It will serve him well as long as he will remain faithful to her.\n\nRoland then goes to help the besieged Blois and wins the battle with the leader of the Saracens. In reward, he is granted by the king of France the hand of his royal daughter. But Roland refuses to accept that offer not disclosing the reason. When he finally confesses his nightly tryst to the Bishop of Blois, the bishop and a group of monks intervene on Esclarmonde's arrival, performing an exorcism and in a crucial moment manage to tear off her veil and thus reveal her identity. Feeling betrayed, Esclarmonde, in her bravura aria \"Ah Roland, tu m'as trahie, et me voilà... Regarde-les ces yeux\", rebukes Roland for his faithlessness. The confrontation scene proceeds with Roland trying at the last moment to use his sword to defend her from the monks. Suddenly, the magic sword shatters to pieces, and Esclarmonde, surrounding herself with a ring of fire and demons, curses Roland and disappears.\n\nThe ex-emperor, Phorcas, upon hearing of Esclarmonde's disobedience, summons her to him and insists she renounce Roland. He threatens to remove her magic powers and to execute Roland. Reluctantly, she submits and when Roland is brought before her she implores him to forget her. A tournament takes place to award the victor with Esclarmonde's hand in marriage. When the winner, clad all in black, is asked his name, he replies \"despair\", and refuses the hand of Esclarmonde. Esclarmonde recognizes the voice immediately, however, as that of Roland, and when her veil is lifted he recognizes her as well and all hail the new empress and her valiant consort.\n\n\n\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "51164804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51164804", "title": "Frederick Rogers (bookbinder)", "text": "Frederick Rogers (bookbinder)\n\nFrederick Rogers (1846–1915) was an English bookbinder, trades unionist, writer and journalist. He is notable as first chairman of the Labour Representation Committee, the organisation to which the Labour Party traces its origins, as well as for a lifetime of work dedicated to educational improvement for the working class, and to the introduction of a general tax-funded system of old-age pensions.\n\nRogers was born on 27 April 1846 in Whitechapel, London to a working-class family. His father, also Frederick Rogers, was variously a dock labourer, sailor, and linen drapers assistant; his mother Susan Bartrup a laundress. He left school at or before age 10, and after a period as an ironmonger's boy was employed in a stationery warehouse where he learned the skilled craft of bookbinding. His artisanal career for the next forty years was as a bookbinder specialising in vellum-bound accounts books.\n\nRogers was an autodidact who pursued four entwined interests through his life: trades unionism, education for the working-class, journalism, and religion. He was also greatly interested in English literature, and was considered to be extremely well-read - \"the most scholarly man I know in the Labour movement\", according to an anonymous writer in a 1909 \"Railway Review\" article. Rogers took some pride in having overcome a lack of formal education (and a spinal complaint) in his childhood.\n\nHe joined the Vellum (Account Book) Binders' Trade Society in the 1870s whilst working for the Co-Operative Printing Society. In this period, he is mainly noted for his interest in the settlement movement and facilitating the education of working people. He acted as secretary from the outset of the University Extension Movement, working in collaboration with Alfred Milner to encourage universities to deliver lectures in 'extension centres' in cities across the UK. His work, in part, gave rise to Toynbee Hall, a university settlement house delivering education to working people, in which Rogers for many years involved himself, acting as vice-president from 1886 onwards. He was active on the London School Board and within working-mens clubs in east-end London. His work in these fields brought him into the society of reformers such as the Samuel and Henrietta Barnett, and Francis Herbert Stead, founder of the Browning Hall. Direct involvement in the English literature teaching at Toynbee Hall facilitated Rogers' introduction to many socially concerned literary figures of the period.\n\nHe became increasingly active as a journalist from the 1880s, writing for many publications and having a column in the \"Weekly Dispatch\". In this guise he was an early advocate of the formation of an independent Labour party. In 1892 he assumed the presidency of the Vellum (Account Book) Trade Society, it having been damaged by failed industrial action, and held the post for the next 6 years. Involvement in unionism at this level propelled him, later, into two notable occupations.\n\nThe first was as a Trades Union Congress delegated representative at the February 1900 inaugural meeting of the Labour Representation Committee, which made him their first chairman. The foundation of the LRC is seen as the origin of the British Labour Party. Rogers remained a member of the Committee's executive, acting as treasurer in its third year.\n\nThe second, from July 1900, was his service as Organising Secretary of the National Committee of Organised Labour (NECL), which worked to encourage the introduction of old-age pensions funded from general taxation - a campaign won in 1909. The Committee arose out of a campaign of meetings organised by F. H. Stead, known to Rogers through his Settlement movement interests. Stead and Rogers dedicated a decade of work, writing pamphlets and books, lobbying parliament and religious leaders, and travelling the length of the country to speak for the cause. \n\nRogers was a signatory in March 1901, with many other trades unionists, of a pamphlet opposing the Second Boer War. In contrast he was a proponent of the need to wage World War I, and acted as a speaker at recruitment rallies. He parted company from his liberal and socialist colleagues in the 1901-6 period over disagreements about the future of education, and later served as a Conservative Alderman on London County Council from 1910-11.\n\nRogers was strong in his religious faith, converting to the Anglo-Catholic movement in the 1890s. His outlook made him additionally useful during his work with the NECL by enabling him to draw support from religious communities for the campaign. His 1903 book, \"The Seven Deadly Sins\", combines his interest in the Christian faith with his great love for Elizabethan literature. \n\nRogers died, unmarried, in 1915; he lived with his parents until 1907, and thereafter with his sister. An obituary noted the contrast between his outside form - \"strange and blurred\" - and his character - \"sound-hearted, sound-tempered, straight, clear, simple, good ... the most companionable of fellow workers, so reliable, so steady, so right.\"\n\nWorks by Rogers include: \n\n\nHis autobiography, \"Labour, Life and Literature\" (1913) is identified as his most important writing work by David Rubinstein in his Oxford Dictionary of National Biography entry, and was highly commended in a short notice in the \"Labour History Review\" which found \"aspects of his memoirs which lift them well above the average for this class of writing\".\n\n"}
{"id": "34463383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34463383", "title": "Funeral Museum Vienna", "text": "Funeral Museum Vienna\n\nThe Bestattungsmuseum Wien (English: \"Funeral Museum Vienna\") is a museum in Vienna, Austria. With around 1000 exhibits, the Vienna Funeral Museum gives a comprehensive overview of funeral customs, burial rites, funerary art and the special Viennese perspective on death and provides information on the historical and current funeral services in Vienna.\n\nWhen the Austro-Hungarian Empire was at its peak, people paid heavily to make sure they would be remembered. Their obsession of a \"schöne Leiche\" (a beautiful corpse) prompted them to save money to ensure their send off was as grand as possible. In Vienna in the 1900s more than eighty private funeral companies competed for the business of burying the city’s citizens in one of the 52 cemeteries in the suburban area.\n\nIn 1951 the Bestattung Wien, or \"Undertaking Service of Vienna\", was appointed as the only funeral company in the city. The museum was founded in 1967 and designed in 1987 by Wittigo Keller.\n\nLocated in the 4th district at Goldeggasse 19, near the Belvedere, Vienna, it also houses the intriguing Vienna Undertakers' Museum, which contains more than 600 artifacts documenting the Viennese interest in death and burial.\n\nThere are elaborate black uniforms and regalia worn by the pallbearers,from the French pompes funèbres, as well as hearses, wreaths, sashes, lanterns, torches, black flags, even an urn in the shape of a football and a “sitting coffin”.\n\nA real curiosity on display in the Bestattungsmuseum is the re-usable coffin instigated in 1784 by Emperor Joseph II, in an attempt to save wood and to hasten decomposition. The coffins were equipped with a trap underneath to drop the bodies in the graves and kept for another funeral. \nBut the Viennese protests led to the cancellation of the law within six months. With court decree of 29 May 1825, it was decreed that every deceased had to be placed in a sealed coffin before being lowered into the ground.\n\nAnother curiosity is a device whereby a cord; attached to the hand of the deceased would ring a bell above ground to prevent premature burial, just in case the person wasn't really dead. To avoid this, some Viennese stipulated in their will that after death they should be stabbed in the heart with a sword. To this day, the city’s hospital is still occasionally instructed to administer a lethal injection after death to avoid premature burial.\n\nThe funeral Vienna GmbH has announced its plans to establish a new administration building soon, opposite the Zentralfriedhof on the main street near the cemetery gate 2, in the 11th city district of Simmering and its address is Bestattung Wien\n11., Simmeringer Hauptstraße 339, Vienna 1110, Austria.\n\n"}
{"id": "27704766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27704766", "title": "Glossary of sewing terms", "text": "Glossary of sewing terms\n\nSewing is the craft of fastening or attaching objects using stitches made with needle and thread. Sewing is one of the oldest of the textile arts, arising the in Paleolithic Era. Although usually associated with clothing and household linens, sewing is used in a variety of crafts and industries, including shoemaking, upholstery, sailmaking, bookbinding and the manufacturing of some kinds of sporting goods. Sewing is the fundamental process underlying a variety of textile arts and crafts, including embroidery, tapestry, quilting, appliqué and patchwork.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1631775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1631775", "title": "Gran Chaco people", "text": "Gran Chaco people\n\nThe indigenous Gran Chaco people consist of approximately thirty-five tribal groups in the Gran Chaco of South America. Because, like the Great Plains of North America, the terrain lent itself to a nomadic lifestyle, there is little to no archaeological evidence of their prehistoric occupation. Contributing to this near-absence of archaeological data is the lack of suitable raw material for stone tools or permanent construction and soil conditions that are not conducive to the preservation of organic material.\n\nThe actual cultural area of the Gran Chaco peoples differs from that of the geographic Gran Chaco. The northwestern boundary of the cultural area is the Parapetí River and the marshes of the Bañados de Izozog depression, beyond which were the lands of the cultural unrelated Chané and Chiriguano. The cultural boundaries have not been static, even during historical times. In the late 17th century the area expanded to the east across the Paraguay River, when the Mbayá invaded the lands between the Apa River and the Miranda River in Mato Grosso do Sul province in Brazil.\n\nThe tribal groups of the Gran Chaco fall into six language families:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46568578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46568578", "title": "Haji Biriyani", "text": "Haji Biriyani\n\nHaji Biriyani (also known as Hajir Biriyani) is one of the restaurants in the heart of ancient Dhaka city of Bangladesh selling Chevon Biryani (dish made with highly seasoned rice and goat's meat). The restaurant also sells Borhani (salted mint drink made of Yogurt) and soft drinks. In 1939 the restaurant was started as a roadside food corner by a person named Haji Mohammad Hossain. Later on the business took dramatic change and became part of the culture of Dhaka city. According to Sakhawat Haji Biriyani is not only the best in Bangladesh but also among Bangladeshis living around the world.\n\nThe business was started on 1939 by a cook named Haji Mohammad Hossain. After Haji Mohammad Hossain died in 1992, his son, Haji Mohammad Golam Hossain took over and continued the family business without making any changes in style and tradition. By the passage of time Haji Mohammad Golam became tired by running the family business and finally handed over the business to his son, Haji Mohammad Shahed.\n\nThe Haji Biriyani has three branches. One is in Old Dhaka which is the main branch, one is in Motijheel and another in the Rainkhola Bazar. In old Dhaka city it is located at 70 Kazi Alauddin Road, Nazira Bazar, Old Dhaka.\n\nThe recipe includes highly seasoned Rice, Chevon, Mustard oil, Garlic, Onion, Black pepper, Saffron, Clove, Cardamom, Cinnamon, Salt, Lemon, dahi (yogurt), Peanuts, Cream, Raisin and small amount of Cheese (either Cow or Buffalo). The recipe has been handed over the founder of the restaurant to his next generation. Haji Mohammad Shahed claimed that,“I have never changed anything, not even the amount of salt”.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5800553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5800553", "title": "Hauser Center for Nonprofit Organizations", "text": "Hauser Center for Nonprofit Organizations\n\nThe Hauser Center for Nonprofit Organizations at Harvard University seeks to expand understanding and accelerate critical thinking about civil society among scholars, practitioners, policy makers and the general public, by encouraging scholarship, developing curriculum, fostering mutual learning between academics and practitioners, and shaping policies that enhance the sector and its role in society. The Hauser Center was established by Rita Hauser and her husband Gustave M. Hauser in 1997. \n\nLocated at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government, the Center's concerns include philanthropy, nonprofit organizations, voluntarism, and civil society. The Center provides an intellectual home for faculty, research fellows, visiting scholars, and students across the university who share interests in these topics. \nThe Center hosts several regular seminars during the academic year on topics of interest to the nonprofit community as well as those that are part of the Center’s research projects. It hosts special events beyond Harvard, such as the NGO Leaders Forum, a semi-annual retreat for chief executives of major U.S.-based international relief and development NGOs. It also brings leaders of nonprofit institutions to Harvard, such as its senior research fellows Jim Bildner, L. David Brown, Steven Lawry, Peter Bell, Jennifer McCrea, and Marion Fremont-Smith.\n\nThe Hauser Center’s programs and projects engage scholars and practitioners interested in the nonprofit field on a variety of topics. \n\nThe Center hosts three important blogs: Humanitarian and Development Nonprofit Organizations, Nonprofits in China and Nonprofit News & Comment.\n\nChristine Letts is currently the Interim Faculty Director, having assumed the faculty leadership position following Christopher Stone, who served as Faculty Director from 2008-2012. Aviva Luz Argote serves as Executive Director. Other notable faculty members include Mark Moore, Marion Fremont-Smith, Marshall Ganz, Christopher Winship, Peter Dobkin Hall, Archon Fung, Herman \"Dutch\" Leonard, Luther Ragin, Nathalie Kylander, Alnoor Ebrahim, Jim Honan, and Bryan Hehir.\n"}
{"id": "49359044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49359044", "title": "Higgins Family", "text": "Higgins Family\n\nThe Higgins Family films was Republic Pictures' response to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer's popular Andy Hardy series, as well as 20th Century Fox's Jones Family series. Nine films were released between 1938 and 1941. \n\nIn the first seven movies, James Gleason, his wife Lucile and their son Russell played Joe, Lillian and Sydney Higgins, while Harry Davenport played Grandpa (though his name changed from William Jordan in \"The Higgins Family\" to Higgins in \"Should Husbands Work?\" to Ed Carson the rest of the time). In the last two, they were all replaced, by Roscoe Karns, Ruth Donnelly, George Ernest and Spencer Charters, respectively. To round out the family, Tommy Ryan played Tommy in the second through sixth movies, Mary Beth Hughes was Betty from the fourth on, while Lynne Roberts played Marian in the first, then Jean for the second and third.\n\nGus Meins directed all of the Gleason pictures, and produced some of the later ones.\n\n"}
{"id": "219877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219877", "title": "International human rights law", "text": "International human rights law\n\nInternational human rights law (IHRL) is the body of international law designed to promote human rights on social, regional, and domestic levels. As a form of international law, international human rights law are primarily made up of treaties, agreements between sovereign states intended to have binding legal effect between the parties that have agreed to them; and customary international law. Other international human rights instruments, while not legally binding, contribute to the implementation, understanding and development of international human rights law and have been recognized as a source of \"political\" obligation.\n\nThe relationship between international human rights law and international humanitarian law is disputed among international law scholars. This discussion forms part of a larger discussion on fragmentation of international law. While pluralist scholars conceive international human rights law as being distinct from international humanitarian law, proponents of the constitutionalist approach regard the latter as a subset of the former. In a nutshell, those who favors separate, self-contained regimes emphasize the differences in applicability; international humanitarian law applies only during armed conflict. \n\nOn the other hand, a more systemic perspective explains that international humanitarian law represents a function of international human rights law; it includes general norms that apply to everyone at all time as well as specialized norms which apply to certain situations such as armed conflict between both state and military occupation (i.e. IHL) or to certain groups of people including refugees (e.g. the 1951 Refugee Convention), children (the Convention on the Rights of the Child), and prisoners of war (the 1949 Third Geneva Convention).\n\nThe General Assembly of the United Nations adopted the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action in 1993, in terms of which the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights was established.\n\nIn 2006, the United Nations Commission on Human Rights was replaced with the United Nations Human Rights Council for the enforcement of international human rights law.\n\nThe Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) is a UN General Assembly declaration that does not in form create binding international human rights law. Many legal scholars cite the UDHR as evidence of customary international law.\n\nMore broadly, the UDHR has become an authoritative human rights reference. It has provided the basis for subsequent international human rights instruments that form non-binding, but ultimately authoritative international human rights law.\n\nBesides the adoption in 1966 of the two wide-ranging Covenants that form part of the International Bill of Human Rights (namely the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights), other treaties have been adopted at the international level. These are generally known as \"human rights instruments\". Some of the most significant include the following:\n\n\nRegional systems of international human rights law supplement and complement national and international human rights law by protecting and promoting human rights in specific areas of the world. There are three key regional human rights instruments which have established human rights law on a regional basis:\n\n\nThe Organisation of American States and the Council of Europe, like the UN, have adopted treaties (albeit with weaker implementation mechanisms) containing catalogues of economic, social and cultural rights, in addition to the aforementioned conventions dealing mostly with civil and political rights:\n\n\nThe African Union (AU) is a supranational union consisting of 53 African countries. Established in 2001, the AU's purpose is to help secure Africa's democracy, human rights, and a sustainable economy, in particular by bringing an end to intra-African conflict and creating an effective common market.\n\nThe African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights is the region's principal human rights instrument. It emerged under the aegis of the Organisation of African Unity (OAU) (since replaced by the African Union). The intention to draw up the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights was announced in 1979. The Charter was unanimously approved at the OAU's 1981 Assembly.\n\nPursuant to Article 63 (whereby it was to \"come into force three months after the reception by the Secretary General of the instruments of ratification or adherence of a simple majority\" of the OAU's member states), the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights came into effect on 21 October 1986, in honour of which 21 October was declared African Human Rights Day.\n\nThe African Commission on Human and Peoples' Rights (ACHPR) is a quasi-judicial organ of the African Union, tasked with promoting and protecting human rights and collective (peoples') rights throughout the African continent, as well as with interpreting the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights, and considering individual complaints of violations of the Charter. The Commission has three broad areas of responsibility:\n\n\nIn pursuit of these goals, the Commission is mandated to \"collect documents, undertake studies and researches on African problems in the field of human and peoples' rights, organise seminars, symposia and conferences, disseminate information, encourage national and local institutions concerned with human and peoples' rights and, should the case arise, give its views or make recommendations to governments.\"\n\nWith the creation of the African Court on Human and Peoples' Rights (under a protocol to the Charter which was adopted in 1998 and entered into force in January 2004), the Commission will have the additional task of preparing cases for submission to the Court's jurisdiction. In a July 2004 decision, the AU Assembly resolved that the future Court on Human and Peoples' Rights would be integrated with the African Court of Justice.\n\nThe Court of Justice of the African Union is intended to be the \"principal judicial organ of the Union.\" Although it has not yet been established, it is intended to take over the duties of the African Commission on Human and Peoples' Rights, as well as to act as the supreme court of the African Union, interpreting all necessary laws and treaties. The Protocol establishing the African Court on Human and Peoples' Rights entered into force in January 2004, but its merging with the Court of Justice has delayed its establishment. The Protocol establishing the Court of Justice will come into force when ratified by fifteen countries.\n\nThere are many countries in Africa accused of human rights violations by the international community and NGOs.\n\nThe Organization of American States (OAS) is an international organization headquartered in Washington, DC. Its members are the thirty-five independent nation-states of the Americas.\n\nOver the course of the 1990s, with the end of the Cold War, the return to democracy in Latin America, and the thrust toward globalisation, the OAS made major efforts to reinvent itself to fit the new context. Its stated priorities now include the following:\n\n\nThe Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR) is an autonomous organ of the Organization of American States, also based in Washington, D.C. Along with the Inter-American Court of Human Rights, based in San José, Costa Rica, it is one of the bodies that comprise the inter-American system for the promotion and protection of human rights. The IACHR is a permanent body which meets in regular and special sessions several times a year to examine allegations of human rights violations in the hemisphere. Its human rights duties stem from three documents:\n\n\nThe Inter-American Court of Human Rights was established in 1979 with the purpose of enforcing and interpreting the provisions of the American Convention on Human Rights. Its two main functions are therefore adjudicatory and advisory:\n\n\nMany countries in the Americas, including Colombia, Cuba, Mexico and Venezuela, have been accused of human rights violations.\n\nThe Council of Europe, founded in 1949, is the oldest organisation working for European integration. It is an international organisation with legal personality recognised under public international law, and has observer status at the United Nations. The seat of the Council is in Strasbourg in France.\n\nThe Council of Europe is responsible for both the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights. These institutions bind the Council's members to a code of human rights which, although strict, is more lenient than that of the UN Charter on human rights.\n\nThe Council also promotes the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages and the European Social Charter. Membership is open to all European states which seek European integration, accept the principle of the rule of law, and are able and willing to guarantee democracy, fundamental human rights and freedoms.\n\nThe Council of Europe is separate from the European Union, but the latter is expected to accede to the European Convention on Human Rights. The Council includes all the member states of European Union. The EU also has a separate human rights document, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.\n\nThe European Convention on Human Rights has since 1950 defined and guaranteed human rights and fundamental freedoms in Europe. All 47 member states of the Council of Europe have signed this Convention, and are therefore under the jurisdiction of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. In order to prevent torture and inhuman or degrading treatment, the Committee for the Prevention of Torture was established.\n\nThe Council of Europe also adopted the Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings in May 2005, for protection against human trafficking and sexual exploitation, the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse in October 2007, and the Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence in May 2011.\n\nThe European Court of Human Rights is the only international court with jurisdiction to deal with cases brought by individuals rather than states. In early 2010, the court had a backlog of over 120,000 cases and a multi-year waiting list. About one out of every twenty cases submitted to the court is considered admissible. In 2007, the court issued 1,503 verdicts. At the current rate of proceedings, it would take 46 years for the backlog to clear.\n\nThere is currently no international court to administer international human rights law, but quasi-judicial bodies exist under some UN treaties (like the Human Rights Committee under the ICCPR). The International Criminal Court (ICC) has jurisdiction over the crime of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. The European Court of Human Rights and the Inter-American Court of Human Rights enforce regional human rights law.\n\nAlthough these same international bodies also hold jurisdiction over cases regarding international humanitarian law, it is crucial to recognise, as discussed above, that the two frameworks constitute different legal regimes.\n\nThe United Nations human rights bodies do have some quasi-legal enforcement mechanisms. These include the treaty bodies attached to the seven currently active treaties, and the United Nations Human Rights Council complaints procedures, with Universal Periodic Review and United Nations Special Rapporteur (known as the 1235 and 1503 mechanisms respectively).\n\nThe enforcement of international human rights law is the responsibility of the nation state; it is the primary responsibility of the State to make the human rights of its citizens a reality.\n\nIn practice, many human rights are difficult to enforce legally, due to the absence of consensus on the application of certain rights, the lack of relevant national legislation or of bodies empowered to take legal action to enforce them.\n\nIn over 110 countries, national human rights institutions (NHRIs) have been set up to protect, promote or monitor human rights with jurisdiction in a given country. Although not all NHRIs are compliant with the Paris Principles, the number and effect of these institutions is increasing.\n\nThe Paris Principles were defined at the first International Workshop on National Institutions for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights in Paris from 7 to 9 October 1991, and adopted by UN Human Rights Commission Resolution 1992/54 of 1992 and General Assembly Resolution 48/134 of 1993. The Paris Principles list a number of responsibilities for national human rights institutions.\n\nUniversal jurisdiction is a controversial principle in international law, whereby states claim criminal jurisdiction over people whose alleged crimes were committed outside the boundaries of the prosecuting state, regardless of nationality, country of residence or any other relationship to the prosecuting country. The state backs its claim on the grounds that the crime committed is considered a crime against all, which any state is authorised to punish. The concept of universal jurisdiction is therefore closely linked to the idea that certain international norms are \"erga omnes\", or owed to the entire world community, as well as the concept of \"jus cogens\".\n\nIn 1993, Belgium passed a \"law of universal jurisdiction\" to give its courts jurisdiction over crimes against humanity in other countries. In 1998, Augusto Pinochet was arrested in London following an indictment by Spanish judge Baltasar Garzón under the universal-jurisdiction principle.\n\nThe principle is supported by Amnesty International and other human rights organisations, which believe that certain crimes pose a threat to the international community as a whole, and that the community has a moral duty to act.\n\nOthers, like Henry Kissinger, argue that \"widespread agreement that human rights violations and crimes against humanity must be prosecuted has hindered active consideration of the proper role of international courts. Universal jurisdiction risks creating universal tyranny—that of judges\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5149842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5149842", "title": "Kalpa (Vedanga)", "text": "Kalpa (Vedanga)\n\nKalpa () means \"proper, fit\" and is one of the six disciplines of the Vedānga, or ancillary science connected with the Vedas – the scriptures of Hinduism. This field of study focused on procedures and ceremonies associated with Vedic ritual practice.\n\nThe major texts of Kalpa Vedanga are called \"Kalpa Sutras\" in Hinduism. The scope of these texts includes Vedic rituals, rites of passage rituals associated with major life events such as birth, wedding and death in family, as well as personal conduct and proper duties in the life of an individual. Most Kalpasutras texts have experienced interpolation, changes and consequent corruption over their history, and Apasthamba Kalpasutra ancillary to the Yajurveda may be the best preserved text in this genre.\n\nKalpa Sutras are also found in other Indian traditions such as Jainism.\n\nKalpa is a Sanskrit word that means \"proper, fit, competent, sacred precept\", and also refers to one of the six Vedanga fields of study. In Vedanga context, the German Indologist Max Muller translates it as \"the Ceremonial\".\n\nThe word is widely used in other contexts, such as \"cosmic time\" (one day for Brahma, 4.32 billion human years), as well as for precepts or procedures that are \"proper, fit\" in medicine or another profession.\n\nThe Kalpa field of study traces it roots to the Brahmana layer of texts in the Vedas, however its texts are more focussed, clear, short and practical for ceremonies. Kalpa Sutras are related to the \"Karma kanda\" or rituals parts of the Veda, in contrast to the Upanishads which are the \"Jnana kanda\" or the knowledge part.\n\nThis field of study emerged to serve the need of priests as they officiated over domestic ceremonies such as weddings and baby naming rites of passage, so that the rituals were efficient, standardized and appeared consistent across different events. They also helped the audience and the individuals integrate within customs and cultural practices, state Winternitz and Sarma, from \"the moment when he is received in his mother's womb to the hour of his death\", and beyond during his cremation.\n\nThe rituals related ancient texts are of two kinds: (1) the \"Śrautasūtras\", which are based on the \"śruti\", and (2) the \"Smārtasūtras\", or rules based on the \"smriti\" or tradition. The first versions of the Kalpa Sutras text were probably composed by the 6th-century BCE, and they were attributed to famous Vedic sages out of respect for them in the Hindu traditions or to gain authority. These texts are written aphoristic sutras style, and therefore are taxonomies or terse guidebooks rather than detailed manuals or handbooks for any ceremony.\n\nScholars such as Monier-Williams classified only \"Shrautasutras\" as part of Kalpa Vedanga, stating that the \"Smartasutras\" did not relate to Srauta or Vedic ceremonies, but instead focused on domestic events such as rites of passage when a baby is born and to \"Samayachara\" or \"conventional everyday practices\" that are part of every human being's life. However, other scholars include both.\n\nThe Śrautasūtras (Shrauta-sutra) form a part of the corpus of Sanskrit sūtra literature. Their topics include instructions relating to the use of the śruti corpus in ritual ('kalpa') and the correct performance of these rituals. Some early Śrautasūtras were composed in the late Brahmana period (such as the Baudhyanana and Vadhula Sūtras), but the bulk of the Śrautasūtras are roughly contemporary to the Gṛhya corpus of domestic sūtras, their language being late Vedic Sanskrit, dating to the middle of the first millennium BCE (generally predating Pāṇini).\n\nThe (or \"Shulva-sutras\") deal with the mathematical methodology to construct altar geometries for the Vedic rituals. The Sanskrit word \"Shulba\" means cord, and these texts are \"rules of the cord\". They provide, states Kim Plofker, what in modern mathematical terminology would be called \"area preserving transformations of plane figures\", tersely describing geometric formulae and constants. Five \"Shulba Sutras\" texts have survived through history, of which the oldest surviving is likely the Baudhayana Shulba Sutra (800-500 BCE), while the one by Katyayana may be chronologically the youngest (~300 BCE).\n\nThe Gṛhyasūtras \"domestic sūtras\" are a category of Sanskrit texts prescribing Vedic rituals, mainly relating to rites of passage such as rituals of wedding, birth celebration, namegiving and coming of age (puberty). Their language is late Vedic Sanskrit, and they date to around roughly 500 BCE, contemporary with the Śrautasūtras. They are named after Vedic shakhas.\n\nThe Dharmasūtras are texts dealing with custom, rituals, duties and law. They include the four surviving written works of the ancient Indian tradition on the subject of dharma, or the rules of behavior recognized by a community. Unlike the later dharmaśāstras, the dharmasūtras are composed in prose. The oldest dharmasūtra is generally believed to have been that of Apastamba, followed by the dharmasūtras of Gautama, Baudhayana, and an early version of Vashistha. It is difficult to determine exact dates for these texts, but the dates between 500–300 BCE have been suggested for the oldest dharmasūtras.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8571644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8571644", "title": "Keeling's Guide to Japan", "text": "Keeling's Guide to Japan\n\nKeeling's Guide to Japan was a tourist guidebook published in several editions during the 19th century by the Yokohama-based firm, \"A. Farsari & Co.\" The guidebook provided accurate and detailed maps and plans of Japanese cities, resort areas, and building complexes; descriptions of sites, services and suggested itineraries; numerous informative tables; and pages of advertisements (including one for the Farsari photographic studio). Given the degree of detail, the guide is useful even today as a resource for a better understanding of Japan in the second half of the 19th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "12278548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12278548", "title": "List of major and official Austronesian languages", "text": "List of major and official Austronesian languages\n\nThis is a list of major and official Austronesian languages, a language family widely dispersed throughout the islands of Southeast Asia and the Pacific, with a few members spoken on continental Asia and Madagascar.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41923118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41923118", "title": "List of urban legends", "text": "List of urban legends\n\nThis is a list of urban legends.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8071246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8071246", "title": "Magnum In Motion", "text": "Magnum In Motion\n\nMagnum In Motion is a multimedia offshoot of Magnum Photos, based in New York City. In Motion assembles interactive photo essays, podcasts and other formats for digital media, that draw upon the archives of Magnum photographers. The essays reflect themes of Magnum's photography: war, poverty, human development, and artistic identity. The essays have been featured by the popular U.S. News Magazine Slate and several other media outlets around the world. \n\nMagnum In Motion was co-founded in 2004 by Claudine Boeglin, journalist and creative director (ex-managing editor of Colors and Le Monde.fr, founder of dandyvagabonds.com) and Bjarke Myrthu (award winning journalist, author, educator) in close collaboration with director of Magnum New York, Mark Lubell. The Magnum In Motion stories are produced by a team of video and sound editors, musicians, visual artists, and journalists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "65305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65305", "title": "Neverwhere", "text": "Neverwhere\n\nNeverwhere is an urban fantasy television series by Neil Gaiman that first aired in 1996 on BBC Two. The series is set in \"London Below\", a magical realm coexisting with the more familiar London, referred to as \"London Above\". It was devised by Neil Gaiman and Lenny Henry, and directed by Dewi Humphreys. Gaiman adapted the series into a novel, which was released in September 1996. The series and book were partially inspired by Gene Wolfe's novel \"Free Live Free\".\n\nRichard Mayhew, a Scottish man living in London, encounters an injured girl named Door on the street one night. Despite his fiancée's protests he decides to help her; upon doing so he ceases to exist on Earth and becomes real only to the denizens of \"London Below\", whose inhabitants are generally invisible and non-existent to the people of \"London Above\". He loses his flat, his job, and nearly his mind as he travels London Below in an attempt to make sense out of it all, find a way back, and help Door survive as she is hunted down by hired assassins.\n\nIn London Below the various familiar names of London all take on a new significance: for example Knightsbridge becomes \"Night's Bridge\", a stone bridge whose darkness takes its toll in human life; The Angel, Islington is an actual angel. London Below is a parallel world in and beneath the sewers. Its inhabitants are the homeless, but also people from other times, such as Roman legionaries and medieval monks, as well as fictional and fantastical characters.\n\n\n\"Neverwhere\" was first broadcast on BBC Two from 12 September 1996. There are six half-hour episodes:\n\n\nThe idea for the story came from a conversation between Gaiman and Henry about a possible television series. Henry suggested a story with tribes of homeless people in London. Gaiman was initially reluctant to commit, as he feared that making the homeless appear \"cool\" might cause more young people to attempt to emulate the characters, but decided that the effect could be avoided by making the story more removed from reality.\n\n\"Neverwhere\" received some criticism for its appearance. One major problem lay in the original plan to shoot on video (for budgetary reasons), and then later \"filmise\" the footage to make it look as if it had been shot on film. For this reason, the programme had been lit and shot in a manner appropriate to a film-based production. However, the decision to apply the filmisation process was later reversed. In addition to what some considered the old-fashioned appearance of un-filmised video, the lighting set up with film in mind appeared garish and unsubtle on the more clinical medium. Gaiman himself commented that the loss of quality resulting from multi-generational VHS copies actually improved the appearance in this respect.\n\n\nThe six episodes were released in the US and Canada to DVD as a two-disc set on 9 September 2005 in conjunction with A&E Network. Despite the DVDs often being advertised as region 1, some of the actual discs are region zero. The BBC have released the series on DVD on 23 April 2007. The opening theme tune on the original BBC2 transmission was the same as the music over the closing credits. The opening theme on the Region 2 DVD version is a series of abstract sounds, while the closing music remains intact. The music for the series was made by Brian Eno.\n\nNeil Gaiman wrote a novelisation of the television series that was first released in 1996, during the television show's transmission. This was accompanied by a spoken word release on CD and cassette. The text was later re-written for the US market (Gaiman's publisher insisting that many of the references of London were too obscure for US tastes) and a third version is now available which combines elements of both earlier versions of the novel.\n\nA nine-issue comic book limited series began in June 2005, written by Mike Carey (who had worked on \"Lucifer\", a spin-off from Gaiman's \"The Sandman\"), with art by Glenn Fabry.\nVertigo changed a character, the Marquis De Carabas, that had been portrayed in the TV series and on the Radio as a man from the African Diaspora into a creature with a black skin tone not seen in the real world. \nThe comic is an adaptation inspired by the novelisation, rather than the original TV series. Thus the characters and settings do not generally resemble those seen in the series. The series was published by DC Comics's Vertigo imprint. The collected volume was also published by Vertigo, in February 2007 ().\n\nIn 2006, a world-premiere stage adaptation of the novel, developed by writer and actress Eve Butler and director Sasha Travis, was produced by the Savannah Actor's Theatre in Savannah, Georgia.\n\nIn 2008, another stage adaptation was created and performed by the Actors Gymnasium in Evanston, Illinois.\n\nIn 2010, Lifeline Theatre in Chicago performed an adaptation written by Robert Kauzlaric. The eight-week run proved so successful that it was extended another four weeks. The play was viewed by Neil Gaiman and the producer of the original BBC series, Lenny Henry, during the extension.\n\nIn December 2010, Galway-based theatre company Croi8 Productions performed Kauzlaric's adaptation. This was the Irish premiere of the adaptation.\n\nIn January 2012, Reading-based Progress Theatre performed Kauzlaric's adaptation. This was the British premiere of the adaptation.\n\nIn February 2012, Calgary-based theatre company Mob Hit Productions performed a two-week run of Kauzlaric's adaptation. This was the Canadian premiere of the adaptation.\n\nIn May 2011, the first school production of Kauzlaric's adaptation was performed at Northwest Academy in Portland, Oregon. In February 2013, Kauzlaric's adaption was performed at Friends Academy in Locust Valley, New York.\n\nOn 5 April 2013, the Sacred Fools Theater Company in Los Angeles performed the American West Coast premiere of Kauzlaric's adaptation. Originally scheduled to run through 11 May, it was extended an additional two weeks due to its popularity. The play was viewed by Neil Gaiman.\n\nIn August 2013, Washington, D.C.-based company Rorschach Theatre performed Kauzlaric's adaptation after a successful Kickstarter campaign.\n\nA script was written for a movie version in 2009 and was optioned by The Weinstein Company. The project has been abandoned since.\n\nA radio dramatisation in six parts was first broadcast on BBC Radio 4 and BBC Radio 4 Extra in March 2013, written by Dirk Maggs and co-directed with producer Heather Larmour. During one of his book signings Gaiman indicated that it will be released for sale in late 2013.\n\nSince at least 2014, Gaiman said a sequel to the book titled \"The Seven Sisters\" was a possibility.\nIn 2017 he announced that he was in fact writing it.\n\n\"How the Marquis Got His Coat Back\" is a short story written by Neil Gaiman and set in the Neverwhere universe. It was published in \"Rogues\", a short story anthology edited by Gardner Dozois and George RR Martin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33699182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33699182", "title": "Nitzhonot", "text": "Nitzhonot\n\nNitzhonot (Hebrew: נצחונות, \"victories\") is a form of Goa trance that emerged during the mid-late 1990s in Israel.\n\nNitzhonot blends hard pulsating basses, sometimes referred to as \"laserkicks\", with the Eastern melodies typical for Indian Goa trance from 1996 and 1997. The tracks are usually in a range of 145–155 BPM.\n\nAt the height of its popularity, nitzhonot reached mainstream success in Israel. The most notable artist from this genre is Eyal Barkan, who released his album \"Good Morning Israel\" in 1998. It became the first trance record that achieved gold status in its home country, selling more than 20,000 copies (bootleg versions accounted for 80,000). Other artists from Greece and Israel would also gain popularity that year. In the 2000s, Astrix emerged as another notable Israeli nitzhonot artist.\n\nBefore most artists in Israel changed their direction to Full On, artists in Greece rode the tide. At the beginning of the new millennium, nitzhonot, now renamed as uplifting trance (not to be confused with epic trance, also known as \"uplifting trance\"), would stand up again, rising in popularity. Notable Greek acts included Cyan, Darma, Cherouvim, Star Children, Space Odyssey, Dementia.\n\nThe uplifting scene in Greece has been silent for years, as very few tracks were produced in the late 2000s, but after 2010, nitzhonot gained fame again, especially in Israel.\n"}
{"id": "2588267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2588267", "title": "Outdoor literature", "text": "Outdoor literature\n\nOutdoor literature is a literature genre about or involving the outdoors. Outdoor literature encompasses several different subgenres including exploration literature, adventure literature, mountain literature and nature writing. Another subgenre is the guide book, an early example of which was Thomas West's guide to the Lake District published in 1778. The genres can include activities such as exploration, survival, sailing, hiking, mountaineering, whitewater boating, geocaching or kayaking, or writing about nature and the environment. Travel literature is similar to outdoor literature but differs in that it does not always deal with the out-of-doors, but there is a considerable overlap between these genres, in particular with regard to long journeys.\n\nHenry David Thoreau's \"Walden\" (1854) is an early and influential work. Although not entirely an outdoor work (he lived in a cabin close to civilization) he expressed the ideas of why people go out into the wilderness to camp, backpack and hike: to get away from the rush of modern society and simplify life. This was a new perspective for the time and thus \"Walden\" has had a lasting influence on most outdoor authors.\n\nRobert Louis Stevenson's \"Travels with a Donkey in the Cévennes\" (1879), about his travels in Cévennes (France), is among the first popular books to present hiking and camping as recreational activities, and tells of commissioning one of the first sleeping bags.\n\nIn the world of sailing Joshua Slocum's \"Sailing Alone Around the World\" (1900) is a classic of outdoor literature. In April 1895, Joshua Slocum set sail from Boston, Massachusetts and in \"Sailing Alone Around the World\", he described his departure:\n\nMore than three years later, on June 27, 1898, he returned to Newport, Rhode Island, having circumnavigated the world, a distance of more than 46,000 miles (74,000 km).\n\nThe National Outdoor Book Award was established in 1997 as a US-based non-profit program which each year honours the best in outdoor writing and publishing.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "314480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=314480", "title": "Pornography addiction", "text": "Pornography addiction\n\nPornography addiction is an addiction model of compulsive sexual activity with concurrent use of pornographic material, despite negative consequences to one's physical, mental, social, or financial well-being. Although \"viewing pornography online\" is mentioned in the DSM-5, it is not considered a mental disorder, and it and pornography addiction are without classification in the ICD-11.\n\nProblematic Internet pornography viewing is viewing of Internet pornography that is problematic for an individual due to personal or social reasons, including excessive time spent viewing pornography instead of interacting with others. Individuals may report depression, social isolation, career loss, decreased productivity, or financial consequences as a result of their excessive internet pornography viewing impeding on their social life.\n\nUniversally accepted diagnostic criteria do not exist for pornography addiction or problematic pornography viewing. Pornography addiction is often defined operationally by the frequency of pornography viewing and negative consequences. The only diagnostic criteria for a behavioral addiction in the current \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" are for pathological gambling, and they are similar to those for substance abuse and dependence, such as preoccupation with the behavior, diminished ability to control the behavior, tolerance, withdrawal, and adverse psychosocial consequences. Diagnostic criteria have been proposed for other behavioral addictions, and these are usually also based on established diagnoses for substance abuse and dependence.\n\nA proposed diagnosis for hypersexual disorder includes pornography as a subtype of this disorder. It included such criteria as time consumed by sexual activity interfering with obligations, repetitive engagement in sexual activity in response to stress, repeated failed attempts to reduce these behaviors, and distress or impairment of life functioning. A study on problematic Internet pornography viewing used the criteria of viewing Internet pornography more than three times a week during some weeks, and viewing causing difficulty in general life functioning.\n\nAccording to the American Society of Addiction Medicine, some psychological and behavioral changes characteristic of addiction brain changes include addictive cravings, impulsiveness, weakened executive function, desensitization, and dysphoria, and there is evidence that such changes can occur in internet porn addicts.\n\nThe status of pornography addiction as an addictive disorder, rather than simply a compulsivity, has been hotly contested.\n\nIn November 2016, the American Association of Sexuality Educators, Counselors and Therapists (AASECT) issued a position statement on sex/porn addiction which states that AASECT \"does not find sufficient empirical evidence to support the classification of sex addiction or porn addiction as a mental health disorder, and does not find the sexual addiction training and treatment methods and educational pedagogies to be adequately informed by accurate human sexuality knowledge. Therefore, it is the position of AASECT that linking problems related to sexual urges, thoughts or behaviors to a porn/sexual addiction process cannot be advanced by AASECT as a standard of practice for sexuality education delivery, counseling or therapy.\"\n\nThe \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM-5) includes a new section for behavioral addictions, but includes only one disorder: pathological gambling. One other behavioral addiction, internet gaming disorder, appears in the conditions proposed for further study in DSM-5. Psychiatrists cited a lack of research support for refusing to include other behavioral disorders at this time.\n\nPorn addiction is not a diagnosis in DSM-5 (or any previous version). \"Viewing pornography online\" is mentioned verbatim in the DSM-5, but it is not considered a mental disorder either.\n\nA number of studies have found neurological markers of addiction in internet porn users, which is consistent with a large body of research finding similar markers in other kinds of problematic internet users.\n\nThe International Classification of Disorders 11 (ICD-11) rejected \"pornography addiction\". Specifically, the World Health Organization (WHO) wrote: \"Based on the limited current data, it would therefore seem premature to include [pornography viewing] in ICD-11.\"\n\nCognitive-behavioral therapy has been suggested as a possible effective treatment for pornography addiction based on its success with internet addicts, though no clinical trials have been performed to assess effectiveness among pornography addicts as of 2012. Acceptance and commitment therapy has also been shown to be a potentially effective treatment for problematic internet pornography viewing.\n\nSome clinicians and support organizations recommend voluntary use of Internet content-control software, internet monitoring, or both, to manage online pornography use.\n\nSex researcher Alvin Cooper and colleagues suggested several reasons for using filters as a therapeutic measure, including curbing accessibility that facilitates problematic behavior and encouraging clients to develop coping and relapse prevention strategies. Cognitive therapist Mary Anne Layden suggested that filters may be useful in maintaining environmental control. Internet behavior researcher David Delmonico stated that, despite their limitations, filters may serve as a \"frontline of protection.\"\n\nStudies of those with non-paraphilic expressions of hypersexuality have hypothesized that various mood disorders, as defined in the DSM, may occur more frequently in sexually compulsive men.\n\nThere is only one representative sample to date concerning distress about sex video use. They found that of 10,131 women surveyed, 0.5% of women agreed with the statement that they were \"addicted\" to pornography; 1.2% (of 4,218 who viewed) when limited to women who say they viewed sex films. The comparable figure limiting to men who view sex films was 4.4%. This was without any clinical screening that should eliminate primary disorders (e.g., depression) or religious-based concerns, so these should be considered high-end estimates for potential disorders, if any exist.\n\nMost studies of rates use a convenience sample. One study of a convenience sample of 9,265 people found that 1% of Internet users have concerns about their Internet use and 17% of users meet criteria for problematic sexual compulsivity, meaning they score above one standard deviation of the mean on the Kalichman Sexual Compulsivity Scale. A survey of 84 college-age males found that 2060% of a sample of college-age males who use pornography found it to be problematic. Research on internet addiction disorder indicates rates may range from 1.5 to 8.2% in Europeans and Americans.\n\nTwelve-step programs such as Sex Addicts Anonymous (SAA), Sexaholics Anonymous (SA), Sex and Love Addicts Anonymous (SLAA), Sexual Recovery Anonymous (SRA) and Sexual Compulsives Anonymous (SCA) are fellowships of men and women who share their experience, strength and hope with each other so they may overcome their common problem and help others recover from addiction or dependency, by using the 12 steps of AA and other recovery tools.\n\nNoFap is an online community founded in 2011. It serves as a support group for those who wish to avoid the use of pornography, masturbation, and/or sexual intercourse. There is also a PornFree group which focuses on giving up porn rather than masturbation. Recent peer-reviewed data highlighted considerable misogyny and poor understanding of sexual relationships in this online community.\n\nCovenant Eyes is a Christian company founded in 2000 whose accountability software is designed to help users overcome porn addiction by monitoring their online activity and sending a report to a trusted friend who holds them accountable for their online choices.\n\nCelebrate Recovery (CR) is a Christian inter-denominational 12 step program with about 35,000 available groups and is open to any person who is struggling with life's bad habits, hurts, and hang-ups. CR was started in 1991 at Saddleback Church in CA, and the CR program is based on the 8 Beatitudes from Christ's sermon on the Mountain, and Twelve-step programs from Alcoholics Anonymous.\n\nAccording to E.T.M. Laan, a sexologist working for the Academic Medical Center, it is usually the religious right which claims the existence of pornography addiction and such claims are rare among sexologists.\n\nA meta-analysis of perceived pornography addition has shown a correlation between religiosity and perceived problems with pornography addition.\n\nIn 2013, American actor Joseph Gordon-Levitt wrote, directed, and starred in the comedy-drama film \"Don Jon\", in which the protagonist is addicted to pornography. In an interview to promote the film, Gordon-Levitt discussed what he referred to as the \"fundamental difference between a human being and an image on a screen\".\n\nIn his 2014 autobiography, American actor Terry Crews talked about his long-standing pornography addiction, which he said had seriously affected his marriage and life, and which he was only able to overcome after entering rehab around 2009 and 2010; he now takes an active role in speaking out about pornography addiction and its impact.\n\nIn 2015, English comedian Russell Brand appeared in videos by American anti-pornography organization Fight the New Drug, in which he ranted about pornography and its harmful effects. Later that year, American actress Rashida Jones produced the documentary \"Hot Girls Wanted\", which gave an in-depth look into the exploitation of women in the pornography industry.\n\nIn 2016, American comedian Chris Rock and his wife divorced, which he attributed to his infidelity and pornography addiction. He later discussed the details of his pornography addiction in his 2018 standup comedy special \"\".\n\nOther celebrities who have spoken out against pornography include French actress Juliette Binoche, English actor Hugh Grant, American actor Josh Radnor, and English actress Emma Thompson.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36237055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36237055", "title": "Post-contemporary", "text": "Post-contemporary\n\nPost-contemporary (PoCo) is a forward-looking aesthetic philosophy distinguished by a re-constructive, global, human ethos which posits that the aesthetic experience is universal to humanity, and that this experience can inspire understanding and transformation. It has developed in tandem with new theories of Emergence in Complexity science, as well as advances in Biosemiotics. In art historical terms, “modern” and “contemporary” arts are limited to their era and are defined by stylistic and philosophical parameters - chief among them, a critique of the classical European tradition and constructive philosophy, and secondly, the Contemporary ethos is characterized by an emphasis on transient or exclusively contemporary issues which reflect the zeitgeist. Following the legacy of Modernism, Post-Modernism and Contemporary art follow the tradition of Deconstruction and questioning, while Post Contemporary emphasizes generating new, constructive hypotheses. However, modeled after the Scientific Method, both modes are inter-dependent as the question|answer cannot exist without each other. Thus, Post-Contemporary views the history of the humanities as branching and pluralist, rather than a linear path of development. Consequently, PoCo has chosen a forking path, builds upon knowledge from all eras, and values quality, sublimnity, and empathy above novelty. PoCo emphasizes empathy for all, regardless of race, gender, sexual orientation, or creed.\n\nPost-Contemporary as a concept was first described by Italian Poet Primo Levi. (See Philosophical Overview.) Though as of yet, the first documented use of the specific term was in 2005 by Abbas Gharib in a conversation with Bahram Shirdel, two architects of Iranian origins, both proficient in western culture and participant in the current debate on. The conversation was published by Sharestan Magazine, 55 . 2007. The discussion took this definition also to distinguish the third millennium epitomes of creative sectors, by their projection into coming avant-garde configurations, toward future. To day in its own progress, the Post-contemporary concepts, often known simply as Po-co is much better defined.\n\nFar from the modernist heterotopia, the post modernist historicism contemporary hazards and the current tautologies. The objective of two architects now is the recognition of the renovated of creative disciplines which are forming their concepts, by shifting above the contemporary contents and projections,\n\nBy the ending decade of twentieth century, the “transitional contemporary” as the plethora of western thoughts was mainly expressed in intellectual patterns, by borrowing tools from functions such as fluidity, flexibility, dynamicity, continuity, heterogeneity, smoothness, and transparency or by acquisition of concepts from transitional Philosophy such as multiplicity, difference, repetition, nomadic and “weak thought\". In the first decade of twenty-first century, the opening of minds and matters to the social contexts of sciences, technologies and to the means of physical environments, as well as to the organizational contents of political and economical components, helped the post-contemporary propositions to shift from the contemporary assumptions toward a new universal theory for retooling the educational, cultural and creative systems. \nIn the same decade, the universal crisis of the western economical system, and the deficits of the industrial productions mostly basing on the same system led to need of redefinition of social, political and economical resources, as the organizational components of territories.\nThese are the needs of re-appraisals on the industrial societies, for the implantation of post-contemporary organizational contents by the paradigms given by sciences and technologies toward the means of physical environments from micro-systems. to the macro- organizations and vice versa.\n\nThe origin in diversely phenomenological systems and exact models from life sciences is in the area of the theory of applied dynamical systems and global bifurcations. The special interest in the subject can be find in a new emergent cross-disciplinary field known as mathematical neuroscience. Its scopes include nonlinear models of individual neurons and networks. In-depth analysis of such systems requires development of advanced mathematical tools paired with sophisticated computations. For instance, Andrey Shilnikov, a neuroscientist and mathematician derives models and create bifurcation toolkits for studying a stunning array of complex activities such as multistability of individual neurons and polyrhythmic bursting patterns discovered in multifunctional central pattern generators governing vital locomotor behaviors of animals and humans. Thanks to the non linear qualitative dynamics, the organization of holistic nature of post-contemporary lineage was implemented by interoprativity and interactivity within the heterogeneous components and characters of Micro - systems, being present in many concrete social contents and in most territorial recourses. In this way post-structuralism as well as the new sciences of complexity, Complexity theory and chaos theory, were appropriated and interpreted within Micro - systems by means of \"self-creation\", expressing a fundamental dialectic among structure, mechanism and function, identifiable and recognizable in concrete territorial contexts.\n\nIn the field of architecture, the flourishing endeavor of \"Architecture of complexities\" or customized \"Folding\" Theory for architecture in the transitional contemporary architecture are outstanding examples. The matter is well distinct by Patrick Schumacher from Zaha Hadid Architects issued as Parametric Pattern.\n\nThe use of digital and parametric techniques have created a new saptial organization in Urban Design, Architecture, and Design that values the organizing form over the abstract function. This is a new method, out of the modern abstractions, versus its two-dimensional projections and against its typical linearity and flatness.\nLater, an important critical topic was written on this subject by Farshid Moussavi a London-based architect and university teacher of Iranian origins.\n\nThe holistic dynamicity of Post-contemporary paradigm and its built-in capacities for design agenda, incorporates the ten creative sectors such as architecture, urban design, engineering, design, graphics, art, photography, cinematography, music and performing arts. Architecture must evolve to keep itself relevant for society and to do this must adapt itself to the Post-contemporary social and technological conditions and innovate by absorbing its influences.\n\nThe passage from the “star system architecture” to the social design is also improved by awarding the social architecture of Shigeru Ban, a Tokyo-born, architect by Pritzker Architecture Prize 2014, who designs elegant, innovative work for private clients, and uses the same inventive and resourceful design approach for his extensive humanitarian design efforts, which is just a beginning.\n\nIn the visual arts, Post-Contemporary has taken the form of representational painting, photography, and sculpture which addresses current issues in globalized culture.\nThe New Britain Museum of American Art was the first to dedicate a room to Post-Contemporary Art in their permanent collection - highlighting their new collection with a discussion panel on the term. The centerpiece of this collection is Graydon Parrish's \"The Cycle of Terror and Tragedy\"—a painting concerning the attack on the World Trade Center on 9/11.\n\nPost-contemporary society is strongly related to the values of sustainability, putting in plain words the description of a civilization that meets the higher human real needs for a vast majority in an advanced post-industrial universe, Shifting forward from Fordism and Tylorism industrial managements. In addition, the Post-contemporary bestows our social opportunities to flourish in the utmost of their potential creativity, rather than struggling with the precast sachems or the sinkings in artificial consumerism. The objective therefore is to resolve the causes which go against the self flourishing, the self-fulfillment jointly with the collective harmony, by purge them from the routine of contemporary habits and adopt those post-contemporary values such as creativity, holism, complexity, quality, passion, interconnection, responsibility foremost, the jurisprudence of citizenship ... This is an education versus the universal belief for the continues economic growth, is a training in order to gain the ability to grasp Complex systems within long-term problems, is an exercise against the human tendency which buries the uncomfortable truths or the habit to relate only to what can be seen close to us and see only one cause to one effect. All these or even more are preventing our safe passage toward a sustainable world.\n\nLarge crowds of interests, constitute in associations and foundations, such as Tenstar Community, Omid Foundation and many other progressing third sector institutions, as new creative class are forming their economic contents and values as the third sector economy, out of the general logo-centric illiteracy of previous century economy. Hence, the learning of the alphabet, the language and the paradigms of the 21st century actions become an ineluctable imperative. This fact is mainly applicable to the economical structures proposed by Post-contemporary vision, which its prosperity and richness creates in an added value out from the profit maximization of speculative economy based on old capitalism of industrial productivity. Post-contemporary assets are recourses from dynamic social economy, pro-profit-no-dividend which its plus value is subject to immediate reinvestment in problem solving, in economy of culture, in creative economy and creative education as the New Third sector operations.\n\nAmongst the great varieties of creative fields, disciplines and sectors, the post-contemporary knowledge is represented more generally by philosophy and aesthetic. It makes the paradigms and languages of the 21st century, where so far is resisting and should resists to the intellectual temptations for its contamination and re-theorization through the both modernist and post-modernistpast idioms. “ ... resistance, first against being forced in certain tempting directions and against the trends in current popular opinion, against the hole domain of imbecilic interrogation, … But I think that … as Primo Levi said, the creating would be resistance …”. Beside, the dynamism of post–contemporary progression is conical and shifts from micro - to macro - systems, along the complex paths of its continued improvements and recognitions. In fact, the advancing of this knowledge is totally antithetical to the expansions of the modernist, the post-modernist and the contemporary obsolete cultural heterotopias. It is quite comprehensible then, why the novel post-contemporary action has brandished the weapon, obtained from the powerful tools of complex systems, against the unstoppable and cyclical rebirth of the 'modernist’ rhetoric, which has blind faith in the reality of single and singular \"fact\", as an ideology against multiplicity, and idiom which terrifies from the universal and generalizable knowledge, thus, the modernist and the post-modernist thought, has no existence without a pulse of continuous driving of the abstract \"theorization\" in its many contradictory aspects, as a symptom that requires continuous intervention for the correction of its own paths of survival. Today within these paths, the two antithetical approaches, the temptations of intellectual reconstructions and the appeals of cultural works are still present as a system of total empiricism. The abstract theorization of the first idiom generates perpetual tautology and the second produces the rhetoric of communication and language. In fact, the new post - contemporary paradigm and language is far from the daily vocabulary of cultural routines, making opposition to modernism and post-modernism idioms by identifying it-self through what is constructive in the progressive intellectual trends of today, projecting their new directions into the coming future. In this complex context, Po-co’s innovative paradigm is looking for new varieties of intervention and fresh forms of knowledge. In this sense, every single isolated act from the realm of conventional theory, results inappropriate, inconvenient and unmentionable, while the post-contemporary look for new types of intervention and new kinds of insights”. One step back, a glance at the contemporary culture, which is still modernist and post-modernist, shows how the relative contents are completely characterized by heterotopia, logocentrism, historicism, tautology and rhetoric. These are as dominant ideologies that for the most part are unnecessary replication of the related intellectual, subjective and abstract productions, thus evoking the need for the transition to the post- contemporary paradigms.\n\n"}
{"id": "2893699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2893699", "title": "Salon of Berta Zuckerkandl", "text": "Salon of Berta Zuckerkandl\n\nThe Salon of Berta Zuckerkandl-Szeps existed in Vienna from the end of the 19th century until 1938. It was located in her Viennese residence in the Palais Lieben-Auspitz on the Ringstraße.\n\nThe first salon of Berta Zuckerkandl was held in a mansion in the Nusswaldgasse in Döbling. Later it was held in the Palais Lieben-Auspitz at the Oppolzergasse 6 at the Ringstraße. The salon was formed in the tradition of Fanny von Arnstein's literary salons in the days of the Congress of Vienna.\n\nBertha Zuckerkandl's salon claimed such famous participants as Gustav Klimt, Gustav Mahler, Max Reinhardt and Arthur Schnitzler. She also supported such artists as Anton Kolig and from the so-called .\n\nHer sister Sofie was married to Paul Clemenceau, the brother of the French Prime Minister Georges Clemenceau, giving the salon connections to Parisian circles.\n"}
{"id": "401969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=401969", "title": "Secret history", "text": "Secret history\n\nA secret history (or shadow history) is a revisionist interpretation of either fictional or real history which is claimed to have been deliberately suppressed, forgotten, or ignored by established scholars. \"Secret history\" is also used to describe an alternative interpretation of documented facts which portrays a drastically different motivation or history from established historical events.\n\nOriginally, secret histories were designed as non-fictional, revealing or claiming to reveal the truth behind the \"spin\": one such example is \"The Secret History of the Mongols\". Secret histories can range from standard historical revisionism with proper critical reexamination of historical facts to negative historical revisionism wherein facts are deliberately omitted, suppressed or distorted.\n\nThe quintessential example secret history is the \"Anecdota\" of Procopius of Caesarea (known for centuries as the \"Secret History\"). It was discovered, centuries after it was written, in the Vatican Library and published in 1623, although its existence was already known from the \"Suda\", which referred to it as the \"Anekdota\" (\"the unpublished composition\"). The \"Secret History\" covers roughly the same years as the first seven books of the \"History of Justinian's Wars\" and appears to have been written after they were published. Current consensus generally dates it to 550 or 558, possibly as late as 562. It portrays the reign of the Roman Emperor Justinian I to the great disadvantage of the Emperor, the Emperor's wife, and some of his imperial court.\n\nSecret history is sometimes used in a long-running science fiction or fantasy universe to preserve continuity with the present by reconciling paranormal, anachronistic, or otherwise notable but unrecorded events with what actually happened in known history; for instance, in the \"Star Trek\" universe, Greg Cox's novels \"\" cast the devastating Eugenics Wars of the 1990s (still well into the future when first mentioned in an episode from 1967) as shadow wars most people never knew about, in which such real-life events from that era as the Smiling Buddha nuclear test, the Yugoslav Wars during the 1990s, and the 1992 Los Angeles riots were all part of one wider conflict.\n\nA certain type of thriller can be defined as secret history. In such novels, a daring spy, assassin or commando \"nearly\" carries out a coup which would have drastically changed history as we know it. Since this is not alternate history but a secret event in our own history, the reader knows in advance that this attempt would be foiled, that all persons in the know would be sworn to secrecy and all evidence be consigned to a top secret archive, where supposedly it still is. Nevertheless, the plot fascinates many readers who want to see how close history comes to being changed (usually very, very close) and exactly how the attempt would be foiled.\n\nTwo highly successful novels are considered to have started this subgenre:\n\n\nThese two novels set the framework for many later books: following step by step both the fiendishly clever, competent and ruthless perpetrator in carrying out his design and the equally clever and competent hunter, hot on his heels throughout the book, but who would catch up with him only at the very end. Typically, historical figures – including very famous ones – appear in some key scenes, but are not major actors.\n\nMany other novels of this type followed, most of them with World War II backgrounds. Follet himself published at least two others:\n\nWorks of other writers fitting within this type include:\n\nDifferent types of secret history thriller include:\n\n\n\n\n\"Retcon\", alteration of the canonical account of past events in serial fiction, often employs aspects of secret history. A seeming continuity breach might be \"revealed\" to alter the truth of what readers were previously led to believe was a definitive story. A retcon might equally well convert an established history into a secret history. Such transformations occur with particular frequency in long-running superhero comic books.\n\n\nThe plots of some Time travel books and stories make it possible to count them as secret histories as well – since they posit that the truth about various historical figures and events is quite different from what history books recount.\n\nFor example, Poul Anderson's story \"Brave to be a King\" asserts that King Cyrus the Great, founder of the Persian Empire, was in fact a twentieth-century American time traveler stranded in the past who became a King by strange circumstances. (However, this is \"cancelled out\" at the end of the story, when the real Cyrus is restored to the timeline, and the American goes home to his own century.) Another Anderson story, \"The Sorrow of Odin the Goth\", asserts that also the Nordic god Odin/Wodan was a twentieth-century American time traveler, who sought to study the culture of the ancient Goths and ended up being regarded as a god and starting an enduring myth. \n\nPaul Levinson's \"The Plot to Save Socrates\" asserts (as its title suggests), that the philosopher Socrates did not drink hemlock, as history tells. Rather, a clone died in his place and the true Socrates lived some more years in Twenty First Century America. Also according to the same book, the politician and general Alcibiades had a long life and many adventures after the moment when history records his death; Alcibiades' mistress Timandra and the famous fourth-century mathematician Hypatia of Alexandria were one and the same person, a time-traveling American woman; the inventor Hero of Alexandria was also an American time traveler; and finally, according to the same book, the nineteenth-century publisher William Henry Appleton had an extensive secret life as a time traveler, had visited Classical Greece and met some of the famous ancient Greek writers and philosophers whose works he published, and also several times visited the twenty-first century – but always found his own nineteenth-century milieu to be the most congenial.\n\nAccording to David Drake's novel \"Birds of Prey\", the Roman Empire's Third Century Crisis was far more severe than modern historians realize, and the Empire was on the verge of final collapse and disintegration already then. The situation was saved by a time traveler from the very far future, endowed with telepathic and other superhuman powers. That traveler encountered a young junior Roman officer named Diocletian, realized his enormous potential and gave him the final push to eventually become a strong Emperor, revive and restructure the Roman Empire and give it another two hundred years of life (and much longer for its Eastern portion). Diocletian himself was completely unaware of this crucial help to his career.\n\nRay Nelson's novel \"Bĺake's Progress\" assumes that the poet William Blake and his wife Kate were accomplished time travelers who had many adventures in past and future times and in various alternate timelines, their actions profoundly effecting the course of human history. They had a child never known to recorded history, since the child - also a time traveler - was born in the distant past and lived out his life in the distant future. While it is well-known that Blake revered the poetry of John Milton, the book discloses that the two of them often met personally - the century separating them being no hindrance since Milton, too, was a time traveler and both could travel freely over millions of years. William Blake's mythology is not fictional but features actual people - or beings - whom Blake met on his wanderings through time. The character Urizen was in fact Blake's own son, born of a relationship with a woman of the far future. In addition to all the above, the book makes the more mundane assertion that many of the engravings attributed to Blake were in fact made by Kate and that in fact she was the better engraver of the two.\n\n"}
{"id": "923301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=923301", "title": "Seismic retrofit", "text": "Seismic retrofit\n\nSeismic retrofitting is the modification of existing structures to make them more resistant to seismic activity, ground motion, or soil failure due to earthquakes. With better understanding of seismic demand on structures and with our recent experiences with large earthquakes near urban centers, the need of seismic retrofitting is well acknowledged. Prior to the introduction of modern seismic codes in the late 1960s for developed countries (US, Japan etc.) and late 1970s for many other parts of the world (Turkey, China etc.), many structures were designed without adequate detailing and reinforcement for seismic protection. In view of the imminent problem, various research work has been carried out. State-of-the-art technical guidelines for seismic assessment, retrofit and rehabilitation have been published around the world – such as the ASCE-SEI 41 and the New Zealand Society for Earthquake Engineering (NZSEE)'s guidelines. These codes must be regularly updated; the 1994 Northridge earthquake brought to light the brittleness of welded steel frames, for example.\n\nThe retrofit techniques outlined here are also applicable for other natural hazards such as tropical cyclones, tornadoes, and severe winds from thunderstorms. Whilst current practice of seismic retrofitting is predominantly concerned with structural improvements to reduce the seismic hazard of using the structures, it is similarly essential to reduce the hazards and losses from non-structural elements. It is also important to keep in mind that there is no such thing as an earthquake-proof structure, although seismic performance can be greatly enhanced through proper initial design or subsequent modifications.\n\nSeismic retrofit (or rehabilitation) strategies have been developed in the past few decades following the introduction of new seismic provisions and the availability of advanced materials (e.g. fiber-reinforced polymers (FRP), fiber reinforced concrete and high strength steel). Retrofit strategies are different from retrofit techniques, where the former is the basic approach to achieve an overall retrofit performance objective, such as increasing strength, increasing deformability, reducing deformation demands while the latter is the technical methods to achieve that strategy, for example FRP jacketing.\n\n\nIn the past, seismic retrofit was primarily applied to achieve public safety, with engineering solutions limited by economic and political considerations. However, with the development of Performance based earthquake engineering (PBEE), several levels of performance objectives are gradually recognised:\n\n\nCommon seismic retrofitting techniques fall into several categories:\n\nThe use of external post-tensioning for new structural systems have been developed in the past decade. Under the PRESS (Precast Seismic Structural Systems), a large-scale U.S./Japan joint research program, unbonded post-tensioning high strength steel tendons have been used to achieve a moment-resisting system that has self-centering capacity. \nAn extension of the same idea for seismic retrofitting has been experimentally tested for seismic retrofit of California bridges under a Caltrans research project and for seismic retrofit of non-ductile reinforced concrete frames. Pre-stressing can increase the capacity of structural elements such as beam, column and beam-column joints. It should be noted that external pre-stressing has been used for structural upgrade for gravity/live loading since the 1970s.\n\n\"Base isolation\" is a collection of structural elements of a building that should substantially decouple the building's structure from the shaking ground thus protecting the building's integrity and enhancing its seismic performance. This earthquake engineering technology, which is a kind of seismic vibration control, can be applied both to a newly designed building and to seismic upgrading of existing structures. \nNormally, excavations are made around the building and the building is separated from the foundations. Steel or reinforced concrete beams replace the connections to the foundations, while under these, the isolating pads, or base isolators, replace the material removed. While the base isolation tends to restrict transmission of the ground motion to the building, it also keeps the building positioned properly over the foundation. Careful attention to detail is required where the building interfaces with the ground, especially at entrances, stairways and ramps, to ensure sufficient relative motion of those structural elements.\n\nSupplementary dampers absorb the energy of motion and convert it to heat, thus \"damping\" resonant effects in structures that are rigidly attached to the ground. In addition to adding energy dissipation capacity to the structure, supplementary damping can reduce the displacement and acceleration demand within the structures. In some cases, the threat of damage does not come from the initial shock itself, but rather from the periodic resonant motion of the structure that repeated ground motion induces. In the practical sense, supplementary dampers act similarly to Shock absorbers used in automotive suspensions.\n\nTuned mass dampers (TMD) employ movable weights on some sort of springs. These are typically employed to reduce wind sway in very tall, light buildings. Similar designs may be employed to impart earthquake resistance in eight to ten story buildings that are prone to destructive earthquake induced resonances.\n\nA slosh tank is a large container of low viscosity fluid (usually water) that may be placed at locations in a structure where lateral swaying motions are significant, such as the roof, and tuned to counter the local resonant dynamic motion. During a seismic (or wind) event the fluid in the tank will slosh back and forth with the fluid motion usually directed and controlled by internal baffles – partitions that prevent the tank itself becoming resonant with the structure, \"see Slosh dynamics\". The net dynamic response of the overall structure is reduced due to both the counteracting movement of mass, as well as energy dissipation or vibration damping which occurs when the fluid's kinetic energy is converted to heat by the baffles. Generally the temperature rise in the system will be minimal and is passively cooled by the surrounding air. One Rincon Hill in San Francisco is a skyscraper with a rooftop slosh tank which was designed primarily to reduce the magnitude of lateral swaying motion from wind. A slosh tank is a passive tuned mass damper. In order to be effective the mass of the liquid is usually on the order of 1% to 5% of the mass it is counteracting, and often this requires a significant volume of liquid. In some cases these systems are designed to double as emergency water cisterns for fire suppression.\n\nVery tall buildings (\"skyscrapers\"), when built using modern lightweight materials, might sway uncomfortably (but not dangerously) in certain wind conditions. A solution to this problem is to include at some upper story a large mass, constrained, but free to move within a limited range, and moving on some sort of bearing system such as an air cushion or hydraulic film. Hydraulic pistons, powered by electric pumps and accumulators, are actively driven to counter the wind forces and natural resonances. These may also, if properly designed, be effective in controlling excessive motion – with or without applied power – in an earthquake. In general, though, modern steel frame high rise buildings are not as subject to dangerous motion as are medium rise (eight to ten story) buildings, as the resonant period of a tall and massive building is longer than the approximately one second shocks applied by an earthquake.\n\nThe most common form of seismic retrofit to lower buildings is adding strength to the existing structure to resist seismic forces. The strengthening may be limited to connections between existing building elements or it may involve adding primary resisting elements such as walls or frames, particularly in the lower stories. Common retrofit measures for unreinforced masonry buildings in the Western United States include the addition of steel frames, the addition of reinforced concrete walls, and in some cases, the addition of base isolation. \n\nFrequently, building additions will not be strongly connected to the existing structure, but simply placed adjacent to it, with only minor continuity in flooring, siding, and roofing. As a result, the addition may have a different resonant period than the original structure, and they may easily detach from one another. The relative motion will then cause the two parts to collide, causing severe structural damage. Seismic modification will either tie the two building components rigidly together so that they behave as a single mass or it will employ dampers to expend the energy from relative motion, with appropriate allowance for this motion, such as increased spacing and sliding bridges between sections.\n\nHistoric buildings, made of unreinforced masonry, may have culturally important interior detailing or murals that should not be disturbed. In this case, the solution may be to add a number of steel, reinforced concrete, or poststressed concrete columns to the exterior. Careful attention must be paid to the connections with other members such as footings, top plates, and roof trusses.\n\nShown here is an exterior shear reinforcement of a conventional reinforced concrete dormitory building. In this case, there was sufficient vertical strength in the building columns and sufficient shear strength in the lower stories that only limited shear reinforcement was required to make it earthquake resistant for this location near the Hayward fault.\n\nIn other circumstances, far greater reinforcement is required. In the structure shown at right — a parking garage over shops — the placement, detailing, and painting of the reinforcement becomes itself an architectural embellishment.\n\nThis collapse mode is known as \"soft story collapse\". In many buildings the ground level is designed for different uses than the upper levels. Low rise residential structures may be built over a parking garage which have large doors on one side. Hotels may have a tall ground floors to allow for a grand entrance or ballrooms. Office buildings may have stores in the ground floor which desire continuous windows for display.\n\nTraditional seismic design assumes that the lower stories of a building are stronger than the upper stories and where this is not the case—if the lower story is less strong than the upper structure—the structure will not respond to earthquakes in the expected fashion. Using modern design methods, it is possible to take a weak story into account. Several failures of this type in one large apartment complex caused most of the fatalities in the 1994 Northridge earthquake.\n\nTypically, where this type of problem is found, the weak story is reinforced to make it stronger than the floors above by adding shear walls or moment frames. Moment frames consisting of inverted U bents are useful in preserving lower story garage access, while a lower cost solution may be to use shear walls or trusses in several locations, which partially reduce the usefulness for automobile parking but still allow the space to be used for other storage.\n\nBeam-column joint connections are a common structural weakness in dealing with seismic retrofitting. Prior to the introduction of modern seismic codes in early 1970s, beam-column joints were typically non-engineered or designed. Laboratory testings have confirmed the seismic vulnerability of these poorly detailed and under-designed connections. Failure of beam-column joint connections can typically lead to catastrophic collapse of a frame-building, as often observed in recent earthquakes\n\nFor reinforced concrete beam-column joints – various retrofit solutions have been proposed and tested in the past 20 years. Philosophically, the various seismic retrofit strategies discussed above can be implemented for reinforced concrete joints. Concrete or steel jacketing have been a popular retrofit technique until the advent of composite materials such as Carbon fiber-reinforced polymer (FRP). Composite materials such as carbon FRP and aramic FRP have been extensively tested for use in seismic retrofit with some success. One novel technique includes the use of selective weakening of the beam and added external post-tensioning to the joint in order to achieve flexural hinging in the beam, which is more desirable in terms of seismic design.\n\nWidespread weld failures at beam-column joints of low-to-medium rise steel buildings during the Northridge 1994 earthquake for example, have shown the structural defiencies of these 'modern-designed' post-1970s welded moment-resisting connections. A subsequent SAC research project has documented, tested and proposed several retrofit solutions for these welded steel moment-resisting connections. Various retrofit solutions have been developed for these welded joints – such as a) weld strengthening and b) addition of steel haunch or 'dog-bone' shape flange.\n\nFollowing the Northridge earthquake, a number of steel moment -frame buildings were found to have experienced brittle fractures of beam to column connections. Discovery of these unanticipated brittle fractures of framing connections was alarming to engineers and the building industry. Starting in the 1960s, engineers began to regard welded steel moment-frame buildings as being among the most ductile systems contained in the building code. Many engineers believed that steel moment-frame buildings were essentially invulnerable to earthquake induced damage and thought that should damage occur, it would be limited to ductile yielding of members and connections. Observation of damage sustained by buildings in the 1994 Northridge earthquake indicated that contrary to the intended behavior, in many cases, brittle fractures initiated within the connections at very low levels of plastic demand. In September, 1994, The SAC joint Venture, AISC, AISI, and NIST jointly convened an international workshop in Los Angeles to coordinate the efforts of various participants and to lay the foundation for systematic investigation and resolution of the problem. In September 1995 the SAC Joint Venture entered into a contractual agreement with FEMA to conduct Phase II of the SAC Steel project. Under Phase II, SAC continued its extensive problem-focused study of the performance of moment resisting steel frames and connections of various configurations, with the ultimate goal of developing seismic design criteria for steel construction. As a result of these studies it is now known that the typical moment-resisting connection detail employed in steel moment frame construction prior to the 1994 Northridge earthquake had a number of features that rendered it inherently susceptible to brittle fracture.\n\nFloors in wooden buildings are usually constructed upon relatively deep spans of wood, called joists, covered with a diagonal wood planking or plywood to form a subfloor upon which the finish floor surface is laid. In many structures these are all aligned in the same direction. To prevent the beams from tipping over onto their side, blocking is used at each end, and for additional stiffness, blocking or diagonal wood or metal bracing may be placed between beams at one or more points in their spans. At the outer edge it is typical to use a single depth of blocking and a perimeter beam overall.\n\nIf the blocking or nailing is inadequate, each beam can be laid flat by the shear forces applied to the building. In this position they lack most of their original strength and the structure may further collapse. As part of a retrofit the blocking may be doubled, especially at the outer edges of the building. It may be appropriate to add additional nails between the sill plate of the perimeter wall erected upon the floor diaphragm, although this will require exposing the sill plate by removing interior plaster or exterior siding. As the sill plate may be quite old and dry and substantial nails must be used, it may be necessary to pre-drill a hole for the nail in the old wood to avoid splitting. When the wall is opened for this purpose it may also be appropriate to tie vertical wall elements into the foundation using specialty connectors and bolts glued with epoxy cement into holes drilled in the foundation.\n\nSingle or two story wood-frame domestic structures built on a perimeter or slab foundation are relatively safe in an earthquake, but in many structures built before 1950 the sill plate that sits between the concrete foundation and the floor diaphragm (perimeter foundation) or studwall (slab foundation) may not be sufficiently bolted in. Additionally, older attachments (without substantial corrosion-proofing) may have corroded to a point of weakness. A sideways shock can slide the building entirely off of the foundations or slab.\n\nOften such buildings, especially if constructed on a moderate slope, are erected on a platform connected to a perimeter foundation through low stud-walls called \"cripple wall\" or \"pin-up\". This low wall structure itself may fail in shear or in its connections to itself at the corners, leading to the building moving diagonally and collapsing the low walls. The likelihood of failure of the pin-up can be reduced by ensuring that the corners are well reinforced in shear and that the shear panels are well connected to each other through the corner posts. This requires structural grade sheet plywood, often treated for rot resistance. This grade of plywood is made without interior unfilled knots and with more, thinner layers than common plywood. New buildings designed to resist earthquakes will typically use OSB (oriented strand board), sometimes with metal joins between panels, and with well attached stucco covering to enhance its performance. In many modern tract homes, especially those built upon expansive (clay) soil the building is constructed upon a single and relatively thick monolithic slab, kept in one piece by high tensile rods that are stressed after the slab has set. This poststressing places the concrete under compression – a condition under which it is extremely strong in bending and so will not crack under adverse soil conditions.\n\nSome older low-cost structures are elevated on tapered concrete pylons set into shallow pits, a method frequently used to attach outdoor decks to existing buildings. This is seen in conditions of damp soil, especially in tropical conditions, as it leaves a dry ventilated space under the house, and in far northern conditions of permafrost (frozen mud) as it keeps the building's warmth from destabilizing the ground beneath. During an earthquake, the pylons may tip, spilling the building to the ground. This can be overcome by using deep-bored holes to contain cast-in-place reinforced pylons, which are then secured to the floor panel at the corners of the building. Another technique is to add sufficient diagonal bracing or sections of concrete shear wall between pylons.\n\nReinforced concrete columns typically contain large diameter vertical rebar (reinforcing bars) arranged in a ring, surrounded by lighter-gauge hoops of rebar. Upon analysis of failures due to earthquakes, it has been realized that the weakness was not in the vertical bars, but rather in inadequate strength and quantity of hoops. Once the integrity of the hoops is breached, the vertical rebar can flex outward, stressing the central column of concrete. The concrete then simply crumbles into small pieces, now unconstrained by the surrounding rebar. In new construction a greater amount of hoop-like structures are used.\n\nOne simple retrofit is to surround the column with a jacket of steel plates formed and welded into a single cylinder. The space between the jacket and the column is then filled with concrete, a process called grouting. Where soil or structure conditions require such additional modification, additional pilings may be driven near the column base and concrete pads linking the pilings to the pylon are fabricated at or below ground level. In the example shown not all columns needed to be modified to gain sufficient seismic resistance for the conditions expected. (This location is about a mile from the Hayward Fault Zone.)\n\nConcrete walls are often used at the transition between elevated road fill and overpass structures. The wall is used both to retain the soil and so enable the use of a shorter span and also to transfer the weight of the span directly downward to footings in undisturbed soil. If these walls are inadequate they may crumble under the stress of an earthquake's induced ground motion.\n\nOne form of retrofit is to drill numerous holes into the surface of the wall, and secure short L-shaped sections of rebar to the surface of each hole with epoxy adhesive. Additional vertical and horizontal rebar is then secured to the new elements, a form is erected, and an additional layer of concrete is poured. This modification may be combined with additional footings in excavated trenches and additional support ledgers and tie-backs to retain the span on the bounding walls.\n\nBrick building structures have been reinforced with coatings of glass fiber and appropriate resin (epoxy or polyester). In lower floors these may be applied over entire exposed surfaces, while in upper floors this may be confined to narrow areas around window and door openings. This application provides tensile strength that stiffens the wall against bending away from the side with the application. The efficient protection of an entire building requires extensive analysis and engineering to determine the appropriate locations to be treated.\n\nWhere moist or poorly consolidated alluvial soil interfaces in a \"beach like\" structure against underlying firm material, seismic waves traveling through the alluvium can be amplified, just as are water waves against a sloping beach. In these special conditions, vertical accelerations up to twice the force of gravity have been measured. If a building is not secured to a well-embedded foundation it is possible for the building to be thrust from (or with) its foundations into the air, usually with severe damage upon landing. Even if it is well-founded, higher portions such as upper stories or roof structures or attached structures such as canopies and porches may become detached from the primary structure.\n\nGood practices in modern, earthquake-resistant structures dictate that there be good vertical connections throughout every component of the building, from undisturbed or engineered earth to foundation to sill plate to vertical studs to plate cap through each floor and continuing to the roof structure. Above the foundation and sill plate the connections are typically made using steel strap or sheet stampings, nailed to wood members using special hardened high-shear strength nails, and heavy angle stampings secured with through bolts, using large washers to prevent pull-through. Where inadequate bolts are provided between the sill plates and a foundation in existing construction (or are not trusted due to possible corrosion), special clamp plates may be added, each of which is secured to the foundation using expansion bolts inserted into holes drilled in an exposed face of concrete. Other members must then be secured to the sill plates with additional fittings.\n\nOne of the most difficult retrofits is that required to prevent damage due to soil failure. Soil failure can occur on a slope, a slope failure or landslide, or in a flat area due to liquefaction of water-saturated sand and/or mud. Generally, deep pilings must be driven into stable soil (typically hard mud or sand) or to underlying bedrock or the slope must be stabilized. For buildings built atop previous landslides the practicality of retrofit may be limited by economic factors, as it is not practical to stabilize a large, deep landslide. The likelihood of landslide or soil failure may also depend upon seasonal factors, as the soil may be more stable at the beginning of a wet season than at the beginning of the dry season. Such a \"two season\" \"Mediterranean climate\" is seen throughout California.\n\nIn some cases, the best that can be done is to reduce the entrance of water runoff from higher, stable elevations by capturing and bypassing through channels or pipes, and to drain water infiltrated directly and from subsurface springs by inserting horizontal perforated tubes. There are numerous locations in California where extensive developments have been built atop archaic landslides, which have not moved in historic times but which (if both water-saturated and shaken by an earthquake) have a high probability of moving \"en masse\", carrying entire sections of suburban development to new locations. While the most modern of house structures (well tied to monolithic concrete foundation slabs reinforced with post tensioning cables) may survive such movement largely intact, the building will no longer be in its proper location.\n\nNatural gas and propane supply pipes to structures often prove especially dangerous during and after earthquakes. Should a building move from its foundation or fall due to cripple wall collapse, the ductile iron pipes transporting the gas within the structure may be broken, typically at the location of threaded joints. The gas may then still be provided to the pressure regulator from higher pressure lines and so continue to flow in substantial quantities; it may then be ignited by a nearby source such as a lit pilot light or arcing electrical connection.\n\nThere are two primary methods of automatically restraining the flow of gas after an earthquake, installed on the low pressure side of the regulator, and usually downstream of the gas meter.\n\nIt appears that the most secure configuration would be to use one of each of these devices in series.\n\nUnless the tunnel penetrates a fault likely to slip, the greatest danger to tunnels is a landslide blocking an entrance. Additional protection around the entrance may be applied to divert any falling material (similar as is done to divert snow avalanches) or the slope above the tunnel may be stabilized in some way. Where only small- to medium-sized rocks and boulders are expected to fall, the entire slope may be covered with wire mesh, pinned down to the slope with metal rods. This is also a common modification to highway cuts where appropriate conditions exist.\n\nThe safety of underwater tubes is highly dependent upon the soil conditions through which the tunnel was constructed, the materials and reinforcements used, and the maximum predicted earthquake expected, and other factors, some of which may remain unknown under current knowledge.\n\nA tube of particular structural, seismic, economic, and political interest is the BART (Bay Area Rapid Transit) transbay tube. This tube was constructed at the bottom of San Francisco Bay through an innovative process. Rather than pushing a shield through the soft bay mud, the tube was constructed on land in sections. Each section consisted of two inner train tunnels of circular cross section, a central access tunnel of rectangular cross section, and an outer oval shell encompassing the three inner tubes. The intervening space was filled with concrete. At the bottom of the bay a trench was excavated and a flat bed of crushed stone prepared to receive the tube sections. The sections were then floated into place and sunk, then joined with bolted connections to previously-placed sections. An overfill was then placed atop the tube to hold it down. Once completed from San Francisco to Oakland, the tracks and electrical components were installed. The predicted response of the tube during a major earthquake was likened to be as that of a string of (cooked) spaghetti in a bowl of gelatin dessert. To avoid overstressing the tube due to differential movements at each end, a sliding slip joint was included at the San Francisco terminus under the landmark Ferry Building.\n\nThe engineers of the construction consortium PBTB (Parsons Brinckerhoff-Tudor-Bechtel) used the best estimates of ground motion available at the time, now known to be insufficient given modern computational analysis methods and geotechnical knowledge. Unexpected settlement of the tube has reduced the amount of slip that can be accommodated without failure. These factors have resulted in the slip joint being designed too short to ensure survival of the tube under possible (perhaps even likely) large earthquakes in the region. To correct this deficiency the slip joint must be extended to allow for additional movement, a modification expected to be both expensive and technically and logistically difficult. Other retrofits to the BART tube include vibratory consolidation of the tube's overfill to avoid potential liquefying of the overfill, which has now been completed. (Should the overfill fail there is a danger of portions of the tube rising from the bottom, an event which could potentially cause failure of the section connections.)\n\nBridges have several failure modes.\n\nMany short bridge spans are statically anchored at one end and attached to rockers at the other. This rocker gives vertical and transverse support while allowing the bridge span to expand and contract with temperature changes. The change in the length of the span is accommodated over a gap in the roadway by comb-like expansion joints. During severe ground motion, the rockers may jump from their tracks or be moved beyond their design limits, causing the bridge to unship from its resting point and then either become misaligned or fail completely. Motion can be constrained by adding ductile or high-strength steel restraints that are friction-clamped to beams and designed to slide under extreme stress while still limiting the motion relative to the anchorage.\n\nSuspension bridges may respond to earthquakes with a side-to-side motion exceeding that which was designed for wind gust response. Such motion can cause fragmentation of the road surface, damage to bearings, and plastic deformation or breakage of components. Devices such as hydraulic dampers or clamped sliding connections and additional diagonal reinforcement may be added.\n\nLattice girders consist of two \"I\"-beams connected with a criss-cross lattice of flat strap or angle stock. These can be greatly strengthened by replacing the open lattice with plate members. This is usually done in concert with the replacement of hot rivets with bolts.\nMany older structures were fabricated by inserting red-hot rivets into pre-drilled holes; the soft rivets are then peened using an air hammer on one side and a bucking bar on the head end. As these cool slowly, they are left in an annealed (soft) condition, while the plate, having been hot rolled and quenched during manufacture, remains relatively hard. Under extreme stress the hard plates can shear the soft rivets, resulting in failure of the joint.\n\nThe solution is to burn out each rivet with an oxygen torch. The hole is then prepared to a precise diameter with a reamer. A special \"locator bolt\", consisting of a head, a shaft matching the reamed hole, and a threaded end is inserted and retained with a nut, then tightened with a wrench. As the bolt has been formed from an appropriate high-strength alloy and has also been heat-treated, it is not subject to either the plastic shear failure typical of hot rivets nor the brittle fracture of ordinary bolts. Any partial failure will be in the plastic flow of the metal secured by the bolt; with proper engineering any such failure should be non-catastrophic.\n\nElevated roadways are typically built on sections of elevated earth fill connected with bridge-like segments, often supported with vertical columns. If the soil fails where a bridge terminates, the bridge may become disconnected from the rest of the roadway and break away. The retrofit for this is to add additional reinforcement to any supporting wall, or to add deep caissons adjacent to the edge at each end and connect them with a supporting beam under the bridge.\n\nAnother failure occurs when the fill at each end moves (through resonant effects) in bulk, in opposite directions. If there is an insufficient founding shelf for the overpass, then it may fall. Additional shelf and ductile stays may be added to attach the overpass to the footings at one or both ends. The stays, rather than being fixed to the beams, may instead be clamped to them. Under moderate loading, these keep the overpass centered in the gap so that it is less likely to slide off its founding shelf at one end. The ability for the fixed ends to slide, rather than break, will prevent the complete drop of the structure if it should fail to remain on the footings.\n\nLarge sections of roadway may consist entirely of viaduct, sections with no connection to the earth other than through vertical columns. When concrete columns are used, the detailing is critical. Typical failure may be in the toppling of a row of columns due either to soil connection failure or to insufficient cylindrical wrapping with rebar. Both failures were seen in the 1995 Great Hanshin earthquake in Kobe, Japan, where an entire viaduct, centrally supported by a single row of large columns, was laid down to one side. Such columns are reinforced by excavating to the foundation pad, driving additional pilings, and adding a new, larger pad, well connected with rebar alongside or into the column. A column with insufficient wrapping bar, which is prone to burst and then hinge at the bursting point, may be completely encased in a circular or elliptical jacket of welded steel sheet and grouted as described above.\n\nSometimes viaducts may fail in the connections between components. This was seen in the failure of the Cypress Freeway in Oakland, California, during the Loma Prieta earthquake. This viaduct was a two-level structure, and the upper portions of the columns were not well connected to the lower portions that supported the lower level; this caused the upper deck to collapse upon the lower deck. Weak connections such as these require additional external jacketing – either through external steel components or by a complete jacket of reinforced concrete, often using stub connections that are glued (using epoxy adhesive) into numerous drilled holes. These stubs are then connected to additional wrappings, external forms (which may be temporary or permanent) are erected, and additional concrete is poured into the space. Large connected structures similar to the Cypress Viaduct must also be properly analyzed in their entirety using dynamic computer simulations.\n\nSide-to-side forces cause most earthquake damage. Bolting of the mudsill to the foundation and application of plywood to cripple walls are a few basic retrofit techniques which homeowners may apply to wood-framed residential structures to mitigate the effects of seismic activity. The City of San Leandro created guidelines for these procedures, as outlined in the following pamphlet. Public awareness and initiative are critical to the retrofit and preservation of existing building stock, and such efforts as those of the Association of Bay Area Governments are instrumental in providing informational resources to seismically active communities.\n\nMost houses in North America are wood-framed structures. Wood is one of the best materials for earthquake-resistant construction since it is lightweight and more flexible than masonry. It is easy to work with and less expensive than steel, masonry, or concrete. In older homes the most significant weaknesses are the connection from the wood-framed walls to the foundation and the relatively weak \"cripple-walls.\" (Cripple walls are the short wood walls that extend from the top of the foundation to the lowest floor level in houses that have raised floors.) Adding connections from the base of the wood-framed structure to the foundation is almost always an important part of a seismic retrofit. Bracing the cripple-walls to resist side-to-side forces is essential in houses with cripple walls; bracing is usually done with plywood. Oriented strand board (OSB) does not perform as consistently as plywood, and is not the favored choice of retrofit designers or installers.\n\nRetrofit methods in older wood-frame structures may consist of the following, and other methods not described here.\n\nWooden framing is efficient when combined with masonry, if the structure is properly designed. In Turkey, the traditional houses (bagdadi) are made with this technology. In El Salvador, wood and bamboo are used for residential construction.\n\nIn many parts of developing countries such as Pakistan, Iran and China, unreinforced or in some cases reinforced masonry is the predominantly form of structures for rural residential and dwelling. Masonry was also a common construction form in the early part of the 20th century, which implies that a substantial number of these at-risk masonry structures would have significant heritage value. Masonry walls that are not reinforced are especially hazardous. Such structures may be more appropriate for replacement than retrofit, but if the walls are the principal load bearing elements in structures of modest size they may be appropriately reinforced. It is especially important that floor and ceiling beams be securely attached to the walls. Additional vertical supports in the form of steel or reinforced concrete may be added.\n\nIn the western United States, much of what is seen as masonry is actually brick or stone veneer. Current construction rules dictate the amount of \"tie–back\" required, which consist of metal straps secured to vertical structural elements. These straps extend into mortar courses, securing the veneer to the primary structure. Older structures may not secure this sufficiently for seismic safety. A weakly secured veneer in a house interior (sometimes used to face a fireplace from floor to ceiling) can be especially dangerous to occupants. Older masonry chimneys are also dangerous if they have substantial vertical extension above the roof. These are prone to breakage at the roofline and may fall into the house in a single large piece. For retrofit, additional supports may be added; however, it is extremely expensive to strengthen an existing masonry chimney to conform with contemporary design standards. It is best to simply remove the extension and replace it with lighter materials, with special metal flue replacing the flue tile and a wood structure replacing the masonry. This may be matched against existing brickwork by using very thin veneer (similar to a tile, but with the appearance of a brick).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13441887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13441887", "title": "Seungmu", "text": "Seungmu\n\nSeungmu is a Korean dance performed by Buddhist monks. It is one of the most famous Korean traditional dances and designated as South Korea's important intangible cultural asset number 27 in 1969. It has been developed into a solo dance by professional dancers.\n\nThere is little extant evidence regarding how Seungmu was created. Based on analyses of forms and movements of Seungmu, some researchers have suggested that it may derived from other Buddhist ritual dances or ethnic or folk dances. Some said that Seungmu came from \"bubgo dance\", a Buddhist ritual dance. It was once prohibited during the Joseon dynasty era, and then it was transformed into a folk dance and developed mostly by kisaengs.\n\nThe dancer wears a robe (\"jangsam\") with long sleeve called \"gasa\" and white hood called (\"gokkal\"). The drum or \"bubgo\" is the most important part of Seungmu.\n\nThe seungmu integrates the eight rhythmic cycles: yeombul, dodeuri, taryeong, jajin taryeong, gutgeori, dwit gutgeori, gujeong nori, and saesanjo. Every now and then, when one rhythm shifts to another, the dancer changes the mood by changing his steps.\n\nSome regard Seungmu as the most beautiful Korean dance, for the mixture of flowing movements and stillness. The dancer's long and white sleeves movements, the serenity of white hood, a breathtaking pause, and then a soul-stirring movement contribute to the singular uniqueness of the seungmu.\n\nAs with many of Korea's Intangible National Treasures, Seungmoo has been preserved by Human Cultural Treasures. Until recently, this dance was preserved by Master Lee Mae Bang, who died in 2015. Currently the position for next Human Cultural Treasure has yet to be decided by the Korean Government. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "324217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=324217", "title": "Silla", "text": "Silla\n\nSilla (57 BCE – 935 CE) ( ) was a kingdom located in southern and central parts of the Korean Peninsula. Silla, along with Baekje and Goguryeo, formed the Three Kingdoms of Korea.\n\nFounded by Hyeokgeose of Silla of Park family, the dynasty was ruled by the Gyeongju Gim (Kim) (김, 金) clan for 586 years, Miryang Park (Bak) (박, 朴) clan for 232 years, Seok clan for 172 years. It began as a chiefdom in the Samhan confederacies, once allied with Sui China and then Tang China, until it eventually conquered the other two kingdoms, Baekje in 660 and Goguryeo in 668. Thereafter, Later Silla occupied most of the Korean Peninsula, while the northern part re-emerged as Balhae, a successor-state of Goguryeo. After nearly 1,000 years of rule, Silla fragmented into the brief Later Three Kingdoms of Silla, Later Baekje, and Taebong, handing over power to Goryeo in 935.\n\nUntil its founding as a full-fledged kingdom, Silla was recorded using several hanja, Chinese character, combinations to phonetically approximate its native Korean name. Among those used, there include 斯盧 (사로, Saro), 斯羅 (사라, Sara), 徐那(伐) (서나[벌], Seona[beol]), 徐耶(伐) (서야[벌], Seoya[beol]), 徐羅(伐) (서라[벌], Seora[beol]), and 徐伐 (서벌, Seobeol). \n\nIn 504, Jijeung of Silla standardized the characters into 新羅(신라), which in Modern Korean is pronounced \"Shilla\".\n\nOne etymological hypothesis suggests that the name \"Seorabeol\" might have been the origin of the word \"Seoul\", meaning \"capital city\", and also the name of the present capital of South Korea, which was previously known as Hansung (漢城) or Hanyang (漢陽). The name of the Silla capital may have changed into its Late Middle Korean form \"Syeobeul\" (셔블), meaning \"royal capital city,\" which might have changed to \"Syeoul\" (셔울) soon after, and finally resulted in \"Seoul\" (서울) in the Modern Korean language.\n\nThe name of either Silla or its capital Seorabeol was widely used throughout Northeast Asia as the ethnonym for the people of Silla, appearing as Shiragi in Japanese and as Solgo or Solho in the language of the medieval Jurchens and their later descendants, the Manchus, respectively. In the modern Mongolian language, Korea and Koreans are still known as Солонгос \"Solongos\", which seems to be an alteration of \"Silla\" influenced by the Mongolian word for \"rainbow\" (солонго \"solongo\").\n\nSilla was also referred to as Gyerim (鷄林, 계림), literally \"chicken forest,\" a name that has its origins in the forest near the Silla capital. Legend has it that the state's founder was born in the same forest, hatched from the egg of a cockatrice (Kor. \"gyeryong\", 雞龍, 계룡, literally \"chicken-dragon\").\n\nDuring the Proto–Three Kingdoms period, central and southern Korea consisted of three confederacies called the Samhan. Silla began as Saro-guk, a statelet within the 12-member confederacy known as Jinhan. Saro-guk consisted of six villages and six clans.\n\nAccording to Korean records, Silla was founded by Bak Hyeokgeose of Silla in 57 BCE, around present-day Gyeongju. Hyeokgeose is said to have been hatched from an egg laid from a white horse, and when he turned 13, six clans submitted to him as king and established Saro (or Seona). He is also the progenitor of the Bak (박) clan, now one of the most common family names in Korea.\n\nThe \"Samguk Sagi\" and \"History of the Northern Dynasties\" state that the original Lelang Commandery which later became the Jinhan confederacy (辰韓) was the origin of Silla. Although lack of archaeological evidence, the people claimed they were descendants of Qin dynasty (秦) migrants, fleeing Qin's forced labour policies, and moved to the Mahan confederacy, which gave them land to the east. The Confederacy was also called Qinhan (秦韓).\n\nIn various kinds of ancient inscriptions on monuments of Munmu of Silla, it is recorded that King Silla came from Xiongnu. Also, there are some Korean researchers point out s grave goods of Silla and Xiongnu are alike and also some researchers insist Silla King is descended from Xiongnu. About this, the Korean public broadcaster KBS has reported a documentary.\n\nBy the 2nd century, Silla existed as a distinct state in the southeastern area of the Korean peninsula. It expanded its influence over neighboring Jinhan chiefdoms, but through the 3rd century was probably no more than the strongest city-state in a loose federation.\n\nTo the west, Baekje had centralized into a kingdom by about 250, overtaking the Mahan confederacy. To the southwest, Byeonhan was being replaced by the Gaya confederacy. In northern Korea, Goguryeo, a kingdom by about 50 CE, destroyed the last Chinese commandary in 313 and had grown into a threatening regional power.\n\nNaemul of Silla (356–402) of the Gim clan established a hereditary monarchy, eliminating the rotating power-sharing scheme, and took the royal title of \"Maripgan\" (麻立干). In many popular explanations of this title, it is analyzed into two elements, with the first element alleged to be from the Korean root \"mari\" or \"meori\" meaning \"head\" or \"hair,\" from 網笠 \"mangrip\" > \"mangnip\" \"a traditional-style hat made of horsehair,\" from 毛笠 \"morip\" \"a kind of hat worn by servants in the old days,\" from \"mirip\" ~ \"mireup\" \"a knack, a trick, the hang of something,\" from Korean *\"madi\" > \"maji\" \"the firstborn, the eldest (child of a family); an elder, a senior, a person whose age is greater than someone else's age,\" from Korean \"mat-jip\" \"the house in which the head of a household lives, the main house on an estate,\" from a word related to Middle Korean \"marh\" meaning \"stake, post, pile, picket, peg, pin (of a tent)\" (\"cf.\" Modern Korean \"malttuk\" \"id.,\" \"māl\" \"sawhorse\"), from \"mŏrŏ\" > \"maru\" \"ridge, peak, crest (of a roof, a mountain, a wave, \"etc.\"); the outseam (of trousers or pants); zenith, climax, prime; the first, the standard,\" from \"maru\" ~ \"mallu\" \"floor,\" \"etc.\" The second element, \"gan\", is generally believed to be related to the Middle Korean word \"han\" meaning \"great, grand, many, much,\" which was previously used for ruling princes in southern Korea, and may have some relationship with the Mongol/Turkic title Khan. In 377, Silla sent emissaries to China and established relations with Goguryeo.\n\nFacing pressure from Baekje in the west and Japan in the south, in the later part of the 4th century, Silla allied with Goguryeo. However, when Goguryeo began to expand its territory southward, moving its capital to Pyongyang in 427, Nulji of Silla was forced to ally with Baekje.\n\nBy the time of Beopheung of Silla (514–540), Silla was a full-fledged kingdom, with Buddhism as state religion, and its own Korean era name. Silla absorbed the Gaya confederacy during the Gaya–Silla Wars, annexing Geumgwan Gaya in 532 and conquering Daegaya in 562, thereby expanding its borders to the Nakdong River basin.\n\nJinheung of Silla (540–576) established a strong military force. Silla helped Baekje drive Goguryeo out of the Han River (Seoul) area, and then wrested control of the entire strategic region from Baekje in 553, breaching the 120-year Baekje-Silla alliance. Also, King Jinheung established the Hwarang.\n\nThe early period ended with the death of Jindeok of Silla and the demise of the \"hallowed bone\" (\"seonggol\") rank system.\n\nIn the 7th century Silla allied itself with the Chinese Tang dynasty. In 660, under Muyeol of Silla (654-661), Silla subjugated Baekje. In 668, under King Munmu of Silla (King Muyeol's successor) and General Gim Yu-sin, Silla conquered Goguryeo to its north. Silla then fought for nearly a decade to expel Chinese forces on the peninsula intent on creating Tang colonies there to finally establish a unified kingdom as far north as modern Pyongyang. The northern region of the defunct Goguryeo state later reemerged as Balhae.\n\nSilla's middle period is characterized by the rising power of the monarchy at the expense of the \"jingol\" nobility. This was made possible by the new wealth and prestige garnered as a result of Silla's unification of the peninsula, as well as the monarchy's successful suppression of several armed aristocratic revolts following early upon unification, which afforded the king the opportunity of purging the most powerful families and rivals to central authority. Further, for a brief period of about a century from the late 7th to late 8th centuries the monarchy made an attempt to divest aristocratic officialdom of their landed base by instituting a system of salary payments, or office land (\"jikjeon\", 직전, 職田), in lieu of the former system whereby aristocratic officials were given grants of land to exploit as salary (the so–called tax villages, or \"nogeup\", 녹읍, 祿邑).\n\nBy the late 8th century, however, these royal initiatives had failed to check the power of the entrenched aristocracy. The mid to late 8th century saw renewed revolts led by branches of the Gim clan which effectively limited royal authority. Most prominent of these was a revolt led by Gim Daegong that persisted for three years. One key evidence of the erosion of kingly authority was the rescinding of the office land system and the re-institution of the former tax village system as salary land for aristocratic officialdom in 757.\n\nThe middle period of Silla came to an end with the assassination of Hyegong of Silla in 780, terminating the kingly line of succession of Muyeol of Silla, the architect of Silla's unification of the peninsula. Hyegong's demise was a bloody one, the culmination of an extended civil war involving most of the kingdom's high–ranking noble families. With Hyegong's death, during the remaining years of Silla, the king was reduced to little more than a figurehead as powerful aristocratic families became increasingly independent of central control.\n\nThereafter the Silla kingship was fixed in the house of Wonseong of Silla (785–798), though the office itself was continually contested among various branches of the Gim lineage.\n\nNevertheless, the middle period of Silla witnessed the state at its zenith, the brief consolidation of royal power, and the attempt to institute a Chinese style bureaucratic system.\n\nThe final century and a half of the Silla state was one of nearly constant upheaval and civil war as the king was reduced to little more than a figurehead and powerful aristocratic families rose to actual dominance outside the capital and royal court.\n\nThe tail end of this period, called the Later Three Kingdoms period, briefly saw the emergence of the kingdoms of Later Baekje and Later Goguryeo, which were really composed of military forces capitalizing on their respective region's historical background, and Silla's submission to the Goryeo dynasty.\n\nFrom at least the 6th century, when Silla acquired a detailed system of law and governance, social status and official advancement were dictated by the bone rank system. This rigid lineage-based system also dictated clothing, house size and the permitted range of marriage.\n\nSince its emergence as a centralized polity Silla society had been characterized by its strict aristocratic makeup. Silla had two royal classes: \"sacred bone\" (\"seonggol\", 성골, 聖骨) and \"true bone\" (\"jingol\", 진골, 眞骨). Up until the reign of King Muyeol this aristocracy had been divided into \"sacred bone\" and \"true bone\" aristocrats, with the former differentiated by their eligibility to attain the kingship. This duality had ended when Queen Jindeok, the last ruler from the \"sacred bone\" class, died in 654. The numbers of \"sacred bone\" aristocrats had been decreasing for generations, as the title was only conferred to those whose parents were both \"sacred bones\", whereas children of a \"sacred\" and a \"true bone\" parent were considered as \"true bones\". There were also many ways for a \"sacred bone\" to be demoted to a \"true bone\", thus making the entire system even more likely to collapse eventually.\n\nThe king (or queen) theoretically was an absolute monarch, but royal powers were somewhat constrained by a strong aristocracy.\n\nThe \"Hwabaek\" (화백-和白) served as royal council with decision-making authorities on some vital issues like succession to the throne or declarations of war. The Hwabaek was headed by a person (Sangdaedeung) chosen from the \"sacred bone\" rank. One of the key decisions of this royal council was the adoption of Buddhism as state religion.\n\nFollowing unification Silla began to rely more upon Chinese models of bureaucracy to administer its greatly expanded territory. This was a marked change from pre-unification days when the Silla monarchy stressed Buddhism, and the Silla monarch's role as a \"Buddha-king\". Another salient factor in post-unification politics were the increasing tensions between the Korean monarchy and aristocracy.\n\nOther items uncovered during the excavation include a silver bowl engraved with an image of the Persian goddess Anahita; a golden dagger from Persia; clay busts; and figurines portraying Middle Eastern merchants. \"Samguk Sagi\"—the official chronicle of the Three Kingdoms era, compiled in 1145—contains further descriptions of commercial items sold by Middle Eastern merchants and widely used in Silla society. The influence of Iranian peoples culture was profoundly felt in other ways as well, most notably in the fields of music, visual arts, and literature. The popularity of Iranian designs in Korea can be seen in the widespread use of pearl-studded roundels and symmetrical, zoomorphic patterns. An ancient Persian epic poem, the Kushnameh, contains detailed descriptions of Silla.\nThe early Silla military was built around a small number of Silla royal guards designed to protect royalty and nobility and in times of war served as the primary military force if needed. Due to the frequency of conflicts between Baekje and Goguryeo as well as Yamato Japan, Silla created six local garrisons one for each district. The royal guards eventually morphed into \"sworn banner\" or Sodang units. In 625 another group of Sodang was created. Garrison soldiers were responsible for local defense and also served as a police force.\n\nA number of Silla's greatest generals and military leaders were Hwarang (equivalent to the Western knights or chevaliers). Originally a social group, due to the continuous military rivalry between the Three Kingdoms of Korea, they eventually transformed from a group of elite male aristocratic youth into soldiers and military leaders. Hwarang were key in the fall of Goguryeo (which resulted in the unification of the Korean Peninsula under Unified Silla) and the Silla–Tang Wars, which expelled Tang forces in the other two Korean kingdoms.\n\nA significant number of Silla tombs can still be found in Gyeongju, the capital of Silla. Silla tombs consist of a stone chamber surrounded by a soil mound. The historic area around Gyeongju was added to the UNESCO World Heritage list in 2000. Much of it is also protected as part of Gyeongju National Park. Additionally, two villages near Gyeongju named Hahoe and Yangdong Folk Village were submitted for UNESCO heritages in 2008 or later by related cities and the South Korean government. Since the tombs were harder to break into than those of Baekje, a larger number of objects has been preserved. Notable amongst these are Silla's elaborate gold crowns and jewelry.\n\nThe Bronze Bell of King Seongdeok the Great of Silla is known to produce a distinctive sound. Cheomseongdae near Gyeongju is the oldest extant astronomical observatory in East Asia but some disagree on its exact functions. It was built during the reign of Queen Seondeok (632–647).\n\nMuslim traders brought the name \"Silla\" to the world outside the traditional East Asian sphere through the Silk Road. Geographers of the Arab and Persian world, including ibn Khurdadhbih, al-Masudi, Dimashiki, Al-Nuwayri, and al-Maqrizi, left records about Silla.\n\nThe current descendants to the Silla dynasty fall under the Gim name. Family records since the last ruler have been provided, but these records have yet to be fully verified. \n\nBuddhism was introduced to Silla in 528. Silla had been exposed to the religion for over a century during which the faith had certainly made inroads into the native populace. The Buddhist monk Ado introduced Silla to Buddhism when he arrived to proselytize in the mid 5th century. However, according to legend, the Silla monarchy was convinced to adopt the faith by the martyrdom of the Silla court noble Ichadon, who was executed for his Buddhist faith by the Silla king in 527 only to have his blood flow the color of milk.\n\nThe importance of Buddhism in Silla society of the late early period is difficult to exaggerate. From King Beopheung and for the following six reigns Silla kings adopted Buddhist names and came to portray themselves as Buddhist–kings. \n\nSilla's strong Buddhist nature is also reflected by the thousands of remnant Buddhist stone figures and carvings, mostly importantly on Namsan. The international influence of the Tang Dynasty on these figures and carvings can be witnessed in the hallmarks of a round full form, a stern expression of the face, and drapery that clings to the body, but stylistic elements of native Korean culture can still be identified.\nKorea's and Iran's long-running relationship started with cultural exchanges date back to the Three Kingdoms of Korea era, more than 1600 years ago by the way of the Silk Road. A dark blue glass was found in the Cheonmachong Tomb, one of Silla's royal tombs unearthed in Gyeongju. An exotic golden sword was found in Gyerim-ro, a street also located in Gyeongju. These are all relics that are presumed to be sent to Silla from ancient Iran or Persia through the Silk Road. It was only during the Goryeo Dynasty during King HyeonJong's reign when trade with Persia was officially recorded in Korean history. But in academic circles, it is presumed that both countries had active cultural exchanges during the 7th century Silla era which means the relationship between Korea and Iran began more than 1500 years ago.\"In a history book written by the Persian scholar Khurdadbid, it states that Silla is located at the eastern end of China and reads 'In this beautiful country Silla, there is much gold, majestetic cities and hardworking people. Their culture is comparable with Persia'.\n\n\"The Kushnameh, that tells of a Persian prince who went to Silla in the seventh century and got married with a Korean princess, thus forming a royal marriage.” Park Geun-hye said during a Festival celebrating Iran and Korea's 1500’s years of shared cultural ties.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34957163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34957163", "title": "Sound of the Desert (TV series)", "text": "Sound of the Desert (TV series)\n\nSound of the Desert () is a 2014 Chinese television series based on the historical romance novel \"Ballad of the Desert\" by Tong Hua. It stars Cecilia Liu, Eddie Peng and Hu Ge. The series aired on Hunan TV from 1 October to 27 November 2014.\n\nJin Yu (Cecilia Liu), an orphan girl of Xiongnu ethnicity, was raised by wolves in the desert, until a Han Chinese decided to adopt her. Two years later, following the death of her adoptive father due to political changes, she decides to follow the man's wish and flees to Jian'an, the capital of Western Han Dynasty, changing her name to Xin Yue. Along her journey, she meets Mo Xun (Hu Ge), a calm and kind disabled man, and later the handsome, cold general Wei Wu Ji (Eddie Peng). In Jian'an, thanks to her determination, Xin Yue becomes the head of a dance house and helps a quiet girl named Qin Xiang (Fala Chen) to meet the Emperor. Qin Xiang then turns into the Emperor's most powerful concubine and schemes against Xin Yue. In the meantime, Xin Yue's past with the Xiongnu catches up with her when she meets her childhood friend, Hu Wei Li (Qin Hao), who is now the Ruler of the Damo plains.\n\nWhile battling against the onslaught of her painful childhood memories and the political intrigue of the royal family, Xin Yue must also choose between Mo Xun and Wei Wu Ji.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFilming for the series started on 8 March 2012 and ended on 2 July 2012. Subsequent review by SARFT however, claimed the series of falsifying historical accounts. Extensive changes were thus required, resetting the entire premise to take place in a fictional era in a fictional country. Character names from the novel which were based on Chinese historical figures were changed, and dialogues and subtitling were revised.\n\nEarly titles of the series were \"Ballad of the Desert\" (大漠谣, \"Dàmò yáo\", also known as \"A Story of the Wolf Girl\"), \"Romance of the Desert\" (大漠奇缘, \"Dàmò qí yuán\") and \"The Legend of Moon and Star\" (星月传奇, \"Xīng yuè chuánqí\"). \n\n\n"}
{"id": "20004766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20004766", "title": "Tangible symbol systems", "text": "Tangible symbol systems\n\nTangible symbols are a type of augmentative and alternative communication (AAC) that uses objects or pictures that share a perceptual relationship with the items they represent as symbols. A tangible symbol's relation to the item it represents is perceptually obvious and concrete - the visual or tactile properties of the symbol resemble the intended item. Tangible Symbols can easily be manipulated and are most strongly associated with the sense of touch.These symbols can be used by individuals who are not able to communicate using speech or other abstract symbol systems, such as sign language. However, for those who have the ability to communicate using speech, learning to use tangible symbols does not hinder further developing acquisition of natural speech and/or language development, and may even facilitate it.\n\nThe term tangible symbols was first developed by Charity Rowland and Philip Schweigert, and refers to two-dimensional pictures or three-dimensional objects used as symbols to convey meaning. The items are termed \"tangible\" because they are concrete items that can be manipulated by the user and communication partner. Symbols can be used individually or combined with other symbols in order to create new messages. Tangible symbols are used as a means of communication for individuals who are unable to understand or communicate using abstract systems, such as speech or sign language.\n\nProperties of tangible symbols include permanency, capacity to be manipulated by both the user and the communication partner, and an obvious relationship between the symbol and the referent. They can represent items, people, activities and/or events, and look or feel similar to what they refer to. For example, a cup can be used as three-dimensional tangible symbol to represent the action: \"drink\". A photograph of a cup can be used as a two-dimensional tangible symbol to also represent the action : \"drink\". Two- and three-dimensional symbols are used to fit the cognitive and sensory abilities of the individual, as well as the individual's unique experiences. \nRowland and Schweigert use the term tangible symbols to refer to conceptually tangible items like two-dimensional pictures or three-dimensional objects. However, other authors, such as Beukelman and Mirenda, use the term to exclusively describe three-dimensional physical objects that display concrete properties such as shape or texture.\n\nAccording to Rowland and Schweigert, \"for some individuals, the use of tangible symbols may be used to bridge the gap between gestural communication and the use of formal language systems. For others, tangible symbols may represent an ultimate level of communicative competence.\"\n\nHistorically, objects and pictures have frequently been used as communication devices. Many authors have also used picture symbols, such as line drawings and photographs to develop language in individuals with little or no speech and/or cognitive disabilities. Tangible symbols emerged from Van Dijk’s work in the 1960s using objects as symbols to develop language in deaf-blind children. In turn, Van Dijk’s work was based on the concept \"symbol formation\" developed by Werner and Kaplan (1963), who theorized that \"symbol formation\" referred to the process of developing language by creating symbols in our minds.\n\nRowland and Schweigert propose that tangible symbols can be divided into hierarchical categories, ranging from most concrete to most abstract symbols: \n\nThe type of tangible symbol used is chosen based on the cognitive and sensory abilities of the learner/user. The meaning behind each symbol is not universal, but by using a symbol the individual is familiar with, a meaningful symbol is created. Tangible symbols should be constructed by meaningful and motivating symbols that will provide the individual with the most opportunities to practice using the new system.\n\nIndividuals who can benefit from using tangible symbols include those who may lack the skills to communicate using verbal speech or other various communication systems such as sign language. Users of tangible symbols may include individuals with cognitive disabilities (including developmental delay and intellectual disability), sensory and/or visual impairments (blindness and/or deafblindness), developmental disabilities (such as autism spectrum disorder), and orthopedic impairments. Rowland and Schweigert claim that tangible symbols do not require the use of high demands on the learner’s cognitive abilities, memory, visual perception, and motor abilities because they are:\nFurthermore, simple behavioral responses can be used with tangible items. For example, learners that are unable to speak can simply point, touch, pick up, or look (in cases of severe motoric impairment) at the object to answer a question or make a request. Finally, three-dimensional objects can be distinguished from one another using touch, and therefore they are suitable for people with visual impairments or blindness.\nA study by Rowland and Schweigert found individuals who were already able to communicate using gestures or vocalizations more readily learned to use tangible symbols than those who did not have intentional pre-symbolic communication skills.\n\nPresentation format depends on the users visual scanning and motoric ability. The tangible symbols can placed in front of the user within reach, placed on a board for visual scanning, or placed in a book for access.\n\nTypically, tangible symbols are custom made and tailored to the individual child. If pre-made sets are used, it is assumed that the symbols are familiar and motivating for the user. It is important to utilize frequently occurring and highly motivating symbols in order to optimize opportunities for use.\n\nTangible symbol system offers a manual and DVD as well as an online course. For more information on tangible symbol system instructional strategies, please reference: http://designtolearn.com/products/tangible_symbol_systems\n\nIn 2009, Ellen Trief, Susan M. Bruce, Paul W. Cascella, and Sarah Ivy created a Universal Tangible Symbol System. They began by developing a survey to determine which tangible symbols were already in use, new activities and concepts for which tangible systems are needed, and participant preferences for tangible symbols from a pilot study. Participants included teachers and speech-language pathologists from four New York City schools. Following the survey, an advisory board consisting of directors of the New York City schools, speech-language pathologists, the designer and manufacturer of the symbols, a representative from the Perkins School for the Blind, college professors, and a graduate research assistant reviewed and discussed the results. This resulted in the establishment of the 55 universal tangible symbols seen in the chart below. However, this universal tangible symbol system should not replace a system already established for an individual.\n"}
{"id": "548696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=548696", "title": "Teen pop", "text": "Teen pop\n\nTeen pop is a subgenre of pop music that is created, marketed and oriented towards preteens and teenagers. Teen pop incorporates diverse genres such as pop, R&B, dance, electronic, hip hop, country and rock. Typical characteristics of teen pop music include autotuned vocals, choreographed dancing, emphasis on visual appeal (photogenic faces, unique body physiques, immaculately styled hair and designer clothes), lyrics focused on teenage issues such as love/relationships, finding oneself, friendships, teenage angst, teen rebellion, coming of age, fitting in and growing up (regardless of the artists' age) and repeated chorus lines. According to AllMusic, teen pop \"is essentially dance-pop, pop, and urban ballads\" that are marketed to teens, and was conceived in its contemporary form during the late 1980s and 1990s, pointing out the late 1990s as \"arguably the style's golden era\".\n\nTeen-oriented popular music had become common by the end of the Swing Era, in the late 1940s, with Frank Sinatra being an early teen idol. However, it was the early 1960s that became known as the \"Golden Age\" for pop teen idols, who included Paul Anka, Fabian, Ricky Nelson and Frankie Avalon. During the 1970s, one of the most popular preteen and teen-oriented acts was The Osmonds, where family members Donny and Marie both enjoyed individual success as well as success as a duo apart from the main family (Donny also recorded with his brothers as The Osmonds). Other successful singers and bands appealing to tweens and teens were Leif Garrett, Bobby Sherman, The DeFranco Family, David Cassidy and The Partridge Family, Shaun Cassidy, The Bay City Rollers and The Jackson 5 to name a few.\n\nThe first major wave of teen pop after the counter-culture of the 1960s and 1970s occurred in the mid to late 1980s, with artists such as Menudo, New Edition, The Jets, Debbie Gibson, Tiffany, Martika, New Kids on the Block and Kylie Minogue. In the early 1990s, teen pop dominated the charts until grunge and gangsta rap crossed over into the mainstream in North America by late 1991. Teen pop remained popular in the United Kingdom with the boy band Take That during this period, until the mid-1990s when Britpop became the next major wave in the UK, eclipsing the style similar to how grunge did in North America.\n\nIn 1996 the girl group Spice Girls released their single \"Wannabe\", which made them major pop stars in the UK, as well as in the US the following year. In their wake, other teen pop groups and singers came to prominence, including Hanson, the Backstreet Boys, *NSYNC, Robyn, All Saints, S Club, Five, B*Witched, and Destiny's Child. In 1999, the success of teenaged pop singers Britney Spears, Christina Aguilera, Jessica Simpson, and Mandy Moore marked the development of what Allmusic refers to as the \"pop Lolita\" trend, sparking the short careers of future pop singers such as Willa Ford, Brooke Allison, Samantha Mumba, Jamie-Lynn Sigler, Mikaila, Amanda, Nikki Cleary and Kaci Battaglia. \nIn 2001 artists like Aaron Carter, Swedish group A-Teens, girl groups 3LW, Play, Eden's Crush and Dream and boy bands O-Town and Dream Street were teen pop artists and hits. Alternate \"looks\" for female teen pop stars include Hoku, and girl group No Secrets. In the UK, teen pop continued to surge with Ellie Campbell, Atomic Kitten and Billie Piper. In Latin America, successful singers and bands appealing to tweens and teens were Sandy & Junior, RBD and Rouge.\n\nAccording to Gayle Ward, the demise of this late 1990s teen pop was due to:\n\n\n1990s and early 2000s teen pop artists entered hiatuses and semi-retirements (*NSYNC, Dream, Destiny's Child) or changed their musical style, including the Backstreet Boys, Britney Spears, Christina Aguilera, Jessica Simpson, Mandy Moore, 3LW and Aaron Carter. Many teen artists starting incorporating genres such as pop rock, Contemporary R&B and Hip-Hop. B2K, a hip hop, pop and R&B group, was made up of teenage boys, so it was considered a boy band and was popular across the world, though they were only active from 2001 to 2004. Their style of music was very different than other teenage artists, sounding more mature than the typical boy band, though the members were all in their mid-teenage years as well. Other teenage artists who sounded more mature in this way were Jhene and Mario.\n\nAround 2005, teenaged singers such as Avril Lavigne, Hilary Duff, Lindsay Lohan, JoJo, Aly & AJ, Ashlee Simpson, \nJesse McCartney, Rihanna, Fefe Dobson, Stacie Orrico, Cheyenne Kimball, Bow Wow, Ciara, Vanessa Hudgens, Ashley Tisdale, Raven-Symoné, Corbin Bleu, and Chris Brown achieved success, indicating new relevance of teen-oriented pop music.\n\nSince early 2000s, but some did many years before that, many teen stars have developed careers through their involvement with Disney. Alongside Disney, other teen pop stars emerged by 2007, among them American Idol winner Jordin Sparks, David Archuleta, and Nickelodeon stars Miranda Cosgrove, Victoria Justice, Keke Palmer and Ariana Grande. Miley Cyrus, Selena Gomez, Jesse McCartney and Demi Lovato are some examples of teen pop singers whose careers started on the Disney Channel. \n\nThe introduction of Canadian singer Justin Bieber, a protégé of Usher, created a resurgence of interest in teen pop, especially of the traditional male teen idol. At the time of his debut album's release, Bieber set records as the only four songs in to the top forty of the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, the first artist to send all songs from an album in the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. This created a wave of male teen artists found on social media, notably Shawn Mendes and Charlie Puth. One Direction, 5 Seconds of Summer, Little Mix, and Fifth Harmony have also re-introduced teen groups.\n\nIn 2005, AKB48 was created to promote idol culture & Japanese Pop nationwide and overseas followed by the expansion of sister groups and rival groups locally and internationally over the years. \n\nIn 2010, the creation of Ark Music Factory helped contributed a new generation of teen pop artists via the internet, such as Rebecca Black and Jenna Rose, despite major criticism with these artists due to the excessive use of auto-tune. As for Japanese teen pop culture, the category of \"idol\" is playing an important role. Momoiro Clover Z is ranked as number one among female idol groups according to 2013–2017 surveys.\n\n"}
{"id": "23477537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23477537", "title": "The Finnish Institute in London", "text": "The Finnish Institute in London\n\nThe Finnish Institute in London (Suomen Lontoon instituutti) is a non-profit, private foundation funded by [ The Finnish Ministry of Education and Culture]. It is one of the 17 Finnish Cultural and Academic Institutes and operates in the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland and Finland. The institute employs four staff members. The current director for the fixed term of 2018–2022 is . The institute runs two programmes: Arts & Culture and Society & Culture.\n\nThe Institute collaborates closely with Team Finland UK and the Finnish Embassy in Dublin. It is also a member of EUNIC London, the network of the cultural institutes from the member states of the European Union in London.\n\nThe institute is an expert organisation of Finnish, British and Irish culture and society. It’s goal is to increase Finland’s international soft power through cultural programming. Building networks and partnerships between Irish, British and Finnish organisations and individuals is at the heart of all of its activities. Instead of marketing Finnish brands or products, the institute aims for cross-promoting inspiring people, innovations and ideas in all three countries. It supports the values of social justice, democracy, diversity and equality through all its activities.\n\nIn practice this means for example producing and commissioning different projects, supporting exhibitions and performances, expert visits and seminars as well as running artists’ residence programmes.\n\nIn the year 2019, the Finnish Institute in London will focus on four themes: Sustainability, Future of Work, Borders & Freedom of Movement and Art & Wellbeing.\n\nIn 2019 the Institute supports Finnish artists’ residencies at Block 336, [ Cove Park] and Temple Bar Gallery & Studios.\n\nThe Institute funds the North AiR : Expanding Entanglements programme, which is a new residency and research cooperation spanning six residency/arts organisations in Scotland and Finland. It is made up of Bioart Society, KulttuuriKauppila Art Centre], [ Mustarinda, Scottish Sculpture Workshop (SSW), Taigh Chearsabhagh] and Timespan.\n\nFinnish Institute in London was founded in 1991. The opening of its first premises in Holborn London was attended by the Finnish Prime minister at Esko Aho and Birgitte, Duchess of Gloucester. From 2014 the institute has had an office at Kings Cross, London.\n\nList of directors:\n\nSusanna Pettersson 2013–2014\n\nEmilie Gardberg 2018–\n\n"}
{"id": "21461328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21461328", "title": "The Last Descendants", "text": "The Last Descendants\n\nThe Last Descendants is a series of fantasy novels for young adults written by British author Catherine Banner and published by Random House. The series started with a single book Catherine started writing when she was 14 years old and still a student. The first book, \"The Eyes of a King\", became the first part of the series \"The Last Descendants\". The second book, \"Voices in the Dark\", was published in 2009. The third and last book, \"The Heart at War\", was published in May 2015.\n\n\nThe books tell a story of a boy (Leo North) living in Malonia. He attends military school, lives with his fearful grandmother, and looks after his brother Stirling. He resists his innate powers, because those who demonstrate any sort of magical ability are considered enemies of the state.\n\nOne day Leo finds a strange, blank book. Empty pages start to fill with passages though, revealing family secrets, telling the history of Malonia, and uncovering the story of Ryan and Anna, two teens in a parallel universe in modern times England.\n\nWhen Leo’s seemingly narrow path takes an unexpected tragic turn, he finds himself on a journey from which he can never really return. And, as he slowly begins to lose touch with reality, Ryan and Anna’s story comes to the forefront.\n\n"}
{"id": "2414707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2414707", "title": "Threshold of originality", "text": "Threshold of originality\n\nThe threshold of originality is a concept in copyright law that is used to assess whether a particular work can be copyrighted. It is used to distinguish works that are sufficiently original to warrant copyright protection from those that are not. In this context, \"originality\" refers to \"coming from someone as the originator/author\" (insofar as it somehow reflects the author's personality), rather than \"never having occurred or existed before\" (which would amount to the protection of something new, as in patent protection).\n\nCopyright finds its international commonality in the Berne Convention that creates the foundation of several concept of international copyright law, however the threshold for attracting copyright is not defined. This threshold is up to each jurisdiction to determine. While works that do not meet these thresholds are not eligible for copyright protection, they may still be eligible for protection through other intellectual property laws, such as trademarks or design patents (particularly in the case of logos).\n\nSecurity cameras, webcams, camera traps and other pre-positioned recording devices capture whatever happens to take place in their field of view. This raises the question whether their recordings are an original and therefore copyrighted work. For example, \"[i]f a security camera mounted in a lobby, recording 24 hours a day, captured a dramatic event, the video could be uncopyrighted.\"\n\nTo date, this question remains untested in the United States. One 2008 United States district court case, \"Southwest Casino and Hotel Corp. vs Flyingman\" would have been on point had the case ever been heard. The casino filed suit for copyright infringement on the use of their surveillance video. The defendant argued in a motion that the surveillance video lacked the sufficient creativity needed to secure copyright protection. That argument never got its day in court; instead, the case fell apart when a separate tribal court ruled that the tribes, rather than the casino, owned the footage.\n\nUnder New Zealand law, according to Susy Frankel:\n\nFrankel concludes that, under New Zealand law, \"a security camera film may not reach the requisite originality threshold, but each case must be assessed on its facts.\"\n\nIn England, the topic came up in 2000, during the aftermath of the death of Diana, Princess of Wales and Dodi Fayed, when a security guard at a property owned by Dodi's father, Mohamed Al Fayed, took still-frame photographs from security video – which showed the couple in the driveway just before their deaths – and sold them to a newspaper. Al Fayed and his privately held security company filed suit, alleging, among other things, infringement of copyright. In that case, \"Hyde Park Residence Ltd v. Yelland\" before the Court of Appeal of England and Wales, \"ownership and subsistence of copyright were not in dispute\", because, \"as section 1 of the 1988 Act makes clear, copyright is a property right\" which was owned by the security company. Ultimately, that case concluded that stealing and selling the photographs did not lead to a defense of fair dealing, nor did it serve the public interest.\n\nIn Canada, author David Vaver criticized the decision of the above court, expressing the opinion that \"whether scenes taken by an automatic surveillance camera are authored by anyone is doubtful: the person responsible for positioning the camera is no Atom Egoyan. Such authorless films may have no copyright at all\".\n\nIn the law of continental European countries, according to Pascal Kamina, there is \"little doubt that 'works' such as security camera videos would not satisfy\" the requirement of originality. Russian copyright law specifically exempts purely informational reports on events and facts from protection, and security camera footage is not considered a work of authorship. This interpretation was applied in a number of Russian legal cases.\n\nA similar topic came up in 2011, when a representative of the Caters News Agency asked the website \"Techdirt\" to take down a photo that it had licensed from nature photographer David Slater. The image—a self-portrait taken by a wild monkey using Slater's camera, had been used to illustrate a post questioning whether Slater could even hold any copyright interest in the image. Slater argued that he had copyright interest in the photo because he had \"engineered\" the shot, and that \"it was artistry and idea to leave them to play with the camera and it was all in my eyesight. I knew the monkeys were very likely to do this and I predicted it. I knew there was a chance of a photo being taken.\" Aurelia J. Schultz disputed Slater's claims, noting a monkey would be incapable of holding a copyright in Indonesia (where the photo was taken), the United Kingdom, or the United States, because it is not a legal \"person\". In December 2014, the United States Copyright Office issued an opinion backing the argument, stating that works by animals cannot be copyrighted, because they were not a work of authorship by a human. Nonetheless, the animal rights group PETA sued Slater on behalf of the monkey under the next friend principle. \n\nUnder Canadian copyright law, an eligible work must be original to its author, not copied from another work, and requires more than trivial or mechanical intellectual effort. In the case of \"CCH Canadian Ltd. v. Law Society of Upper Canada\", the Supreme Court of Canada examined the different approaches taken to the definition of originality. The Supreme Court ultimately concluded that the proper approach in Canadian law fell between the approach of labour and diligence, and that of creativity. Chief Justice McLachlin stated that the \"exercise of skill and judgment\" was necessary in order for an expression to attract copyright protection. Chief Justice McLachlin went on to state that the exercise of skill and judgement would require \"intellectual effort\" and \"must not be so trivial that it could be characterized as a purely mechanical exercise.\" It has been suggested that this approach taken by the Supreme Court of Canada is functionally the same as the approach taken by the Supreme Court of the United States in \"Feist Publications v. Rural Telephone Service\", and by some civil law courts as those courts require that a work demonstrate a \"modicum of creativity\" in decision making rather than a mechanical exercise in order to be original.\n\nThe test for the threshold of originality is in the European Union whether the work is the author's own intellectual creation. This threshold for originality is harmonised within the European Union by the European Court of Justice in Infopaq International A/S v Danske Dagblades Forening case. \n\nIn German copyright law, the \"Schöpfungshöhe\" \"(height of creation)\" could classify copyrightable works into two classes, a design, or anything else (such as a literary work). While the threshold (which is reached even by simple creations, known as \"Kleine Münze\", German for \"Small change\") was low, the requirements for design, works that have a \"purpose\" (such as brand identification), was set much higher, as \"novel\" designs could be protected by the \"lex specialis\" law for design patents (\"Geschmacksmustergesetz\") or by trademark laws. Only design creations that were very high above the average were considered to be \"works of applied art\" and so granted copyright. As an example in case law, the logo of the German public broadcaster ARD, was considered ineligible for protection under German copyright law.\n\nIn November 2013, the Federal Court of Justice rejected the concept of a lower standard for applied artworks in the \"Geburtstagszug\" case. The court ruled that per changes made to German law in 2004 by the implementation of the Directive on the legal protection of designs, copyright and design right were two separate concepts that could co-exist in applied art, as they had different requirements; novelty and an \"individual character\" for design right, and \"a degree of creativity which allows, from the view of a public open to art and sufficiently skilled in ideas of art, to be called an 'artistic' performance\", for copyright. This makes the threshold nearly identical to that in other forms of works. The case centred around the creator of the \"Birthday Train\", who had received royalties from a design patent but wanted to also collect royalties on the concept as a copyrighted work.\n\nIn June 2016, a state court ruled in a complaint against the Wikimedia Foundation by the Reiss Engelhorn Museum, that digital reproductions of public domain works are subject to a new copyright.\n\nA controversial decision on 16 July 2013 rendered \"backseat conversations\"—such as those between Willem Endstra and police—not sufficiently creative for copyright protection.\n\nSection 13(1)(a) of the Indian Copyright Act, 1957 mentions 'originality' as a requirement for copyright protection to literary, dramatic, musical and artistic works. Courts have interpreted this requirement of 'originality' in different ways. This has given rise to various doctrines/tests that can be helpful in determining whether a work meets the threshold of originality. The most prominent case with respect to 'originality' under the Indian Copyright Law is the \"Eastern Book Company v DCB Modak\". This judgment gave rise to two doctrines i.e. \"modicum of creativity\" and the \"skill and judgment test\". This remains the accepted and current position of law in India as of now. However, prior to this, the Indian Courts used to follow the Sweat of the Brow approach.\n\nThis theory bases the grant of copyright protection on the effort and labour that an author puts into her work as opposed to the creativity involved. Locke's theory of labour as property has often been extended to give jurisprudential basis to this theory of copyright law. In the case of \"V. Govindan v E.M. Gopalakrishna Kone,\" it was held that compilations of information would meet the threshold of 'originality' under the Indian Copyright Act since it involves some level of 'skill, labour and brain'. A similar line of reasoning was adopted in the case of \"Burlington Home Shipping Pvt Ltd v Rajnish Chibber\" where a database was held to be original enough to be protected by copyright under Indian law. However, like in other jurisdictions, this theory was discarded by the Indian Courts also and the focus was shifted to the creativity involved in any work. \n\nThe EBC Modak case is the Indian counterpart of the Feist Publications case in terms of the test it laid down. It concerned the copyrightability of Supreme Court judgments that were copy-edited and published by Eastern Book Company. These judgments were published along with 'headnotes' that were written by the Company itself. While explicitly discarding the Sweat of the Brow theory, the Court held that simply copy editing would not meet the threshold of originality under copyright law since it would only demonstrate an \"amount of skill, labour and capital put in the inputs of the copy-edited judgments and the original or innovative thoughts for the creativity would be completely excluded.\". Thus, it introduced the requirement of 'creativity' under originality. With respect to the level of creativity involved, the court adopted the 'minimal degree of creativity' approach. Following this standard, the headnotes that did not copy from the judgment verbatim were held to be copyrightable.\n\nFinally, the Court also gave way to the 'Skill and Judgment Test' which is more or less a compromise between the sweat of the brow theory and the modicum of creativity test. While relying on the CCH Canadian Case, the Court essentially held that a work would meet the originality standard as long as there is labour or effort involved but not \"only\" labour. It must involve some level of skill and judgment as well. However, this approach mirrors the Sweat of the Brow theory more closely and is therefore a difficult theory to defend. Further, the Court held the division of a judgment into paragraphs and numbering them was enough to meet this standard of 'Skill and Judgment'. Whether this is the correct interpretation of the test as given in the CCH Canadian Case remains debatable. \n\nIn Japanese copyright law, a work is considered eligible for protection when it is \"a production in which thoughts or sentiments are expressed in a creative way and which falls within the literary, scientific, artistic or musical domain.\"\n\nCopyright law of Switzerland defines works as being \"creations of the mind, literary or artistic, that have an individual character.\"\n\nBy contrast, in the 2004 case \"Blau Guggenheim v. British Broadcasting Corporation\", the Court found that a photo, shot by a reporter to document Christoph Meili with the files he had taken from his employer, lacked individual character. It found that the scope of conceptual and technical possibilities was not exploited, and that the photograph did not distinguish itself in any way from what was common use.\n\nIn Taiwan, independently created works with \"minimal creativity' are eligible for copyright protection.\n\nIn United States copyright law, the principle of requiring originality for copyright protection was invoked in the 1991 ruling of the United States Supreme Court in \"Feist Publications v. Rural Telephone Service\". The court opinion stated that copyright protection could only be granted to \"works of authorship\" that possess \"at least some minimal degree of creativity\". As such, mere labor (\"sweat of the brow\") is not sufficient to establish a copyright claim. For example, the expression of some obvious methods of compilation and computation, such as the Yellow Pages or blank forms, cannot receive a copyright (demonstrated in \"Morrissey v. Procter & Gamble\"), but sufficiently original elements within the work itself can still be eligible for protection.\n\nThe requirement of originality was also invoked in the 1999 United States District Court case \"Bridgeman Art Library v. Corel Corp.\" In the case, Bridgeman Art Library questioned the Corel Corporation's rights to redistribute their high quality reproductions of old paintings that had already fallen into the public domain due to age, claiming that it infringed on their copyrights. The court ruled that exact or \"slavish\" reproductions of two-dimensional works such as paintings and photographs that were already in the public domain could not be considered original enough for protection under U.S. law, \"a photograph which is no more than a copy of a work of another as exact as science and technology permits lacks originality. That is not to say that such a feat is trivial, simply not original\".\n\nAnother court case related to threshold of originality was the 2008 case \"Meshwerks v. Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A.\" In this case, the court ruled that wire-frame computer models of Toyota vehicles were not entitled to additional copyright protection since the purpose of the models was to faithfully represent the original objects without any creative additions.\n\nIn May 2016, Judge Percy Anderson ruled that remastered versions of musical recordings are eligible to receive a new copyright if they contain \"multiple kinds of creative authorship, such as adjustments of equalization, sound editing and channel assignment\", that are perceptible from the original work. This applies even if the work was only subject to common law state copyright as a sound recording published prior to 1972, thus making them become eligible for compulsory licenses under federal copyright law.\n\n states that the design of a typeface cannot be protected under U.S. law. The non-eligibility of \"textual matter\" was raised in \"Ets-Hokin v. Skyy Spirits Inc.\", judging whether photographs of bottles of SKYY vodka were original enough for protection:\n\nIn works produced in a mechanical medium, “there is broad scope for copyright . . . because ‘a very modest expression of personality will constitute originality.’” With respect to United States law, Stephen M. McJohn writes:\nDifficulties arise when attempting to determine the boundary line between mechanical or random processes and instances in which the slight intervention of a human agent results in the production of a copyrightable work. The Congressional Office of Technology Assessment posited that the question is open as to whether computers are unlike other tools of creation in that they are possible of being co-creators.\nThe U.S. Copyright Office has taken the position that \"in order to be entitled to copyright registration, a work must be the product of human authorship. Works produced by mechanical processes or random selection without any contribution by a human author are not registrable.\"\n\nSome countries grant copyright protection based on how much labour and diligence it took to create a work, rather than or in addition to how original a work is. This is referred to as the \"sweat of the brow\" doctrine in relation to the idiom, \"the sweat of one's brow\".\n\nThe sweat of the brow doctrine has been recognized at various times in the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, and elsewhere. The 1900 UK case \"Walter v. Lane\" ruled that the copyright of an account of a speech transcribed by a reporter belonged to the newspaper he worked for because of the effort it took to reproduce his spoken words.\n\nCourts in the United States rejected this notion in \"Feist Publications v. Rural Telephone Service\" (1991) and \"Bridgeman Art Library v. Corel Corp.\" (1999). In these cases, the courts asserted that originality was required for copyright protection. Since the Feist decision, many common law countries have moved towards applying a similar standard. A similar precedent was set in Canada by cases such as \"Tele-Direct (Publications) Inc. v. American Business Information Inc.\" (1997), where the court concluded that compilations of data must embody originality and creativity in order to be copyrighted. \n\nIn March 2012, the European Court of Justice also set a similar precedent, ruling that Football DataCo could not claim copyright on association football match schedules due to the skill and labour used in their creation, as their compilation is \"dictated by rules or constraints which leave no room for creative freedom\". In November 2015, also citing the European Court of Justice, the United Kingdom's Intellectual Property Office clarified that it was \"unlikely\" that a digitised reproduction of a work out of copyright would be original enough to attain a new copyright.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47551733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47551733", "title": "Video gaming in Kenya", "text": "Video gaming in Kenya\n\nVideo gaming is a young sector in Kenya. Though various start-up companies have appeared in the country since 2007, the existing businesses are dealing with funding issues and few successes have been made. However, shared spaces, support programs and government grants introduced over the past few years have allowed the industry to grow large in a short period of time. The introduction of broadband internet in 2009 spawned a generation of young ICT savvy people in the country and the Kenyan game industry is as of 2015 among the largest in Africa.\n\nThe earliest known game development in Kenya was around 2007, when independent game designer Wesley Kirinya worked alone on \"Adventures of Nyangi\", a \"crude\" action-adventure video game inspired by \"Tomb Raider\". Despite the game's low quality, it gained a large amount of press coverage for being among the first video games created on the African continent. Kirinya later joined with Ghanaian game developer Eyram Tawia to form the company Leti Games, which was rebranded as Leti Arts in 2013.\n\nIn November 2007, NexGen was formed, a company by video game enthusiasts Nathan Masyuko and Ayub Makimei. Inspired in the mid-'90s by the Nintendo Entertainment System and works of Hideo Kojima, Masyuko built a gaming center in 2009 from where the company hosts gaming tournaments. NexGen has been taking efforts to get esports off the ground in Kenya, with limited success. In 2010, Planet Rackus formed. The company released \"Ma3Racer\" on the Nokia Ovi Store, expecting around 10,000 downloads over a year, but the game became popular by its primarily African audience was downloaded over 900,000 times within that time span.\n\nKirinya and Masyuko have worked together with artist Chief Nyamweya to develop \"\", an Android game reaching 250,000 downloads and winning a World Youth Summit Award, which Masyuko collected in Montreal in 2012. \"Pamoji Mtaani\", developed by Warner Bros., won the Global Business Coalition’s Business Excellence Award in 2011 and globally recorded over a million sales after big names in the Kenyan music industry, such as Jua Cali and Kevin Wyre, were involved in its production.\n\nThough in 2007, there existed only a handful of retail stores predominantly selling video games, this number has gone up in recent years. In 2009, Kenya laid the first of its underseas fiber optic internet cables, bringing broadband internet within reach for the population. The government has since invested more money in the development of digital infrastructure, making online gaming viable. In 2010, iHub was created, a physical area for Kenyan ICT entrepreneurs to come together. Various other businesses followed suit, supporting start-up companies \"through a mix of entrepreneurship training, research, funding, working spaces and mentoring.\" According to Masyuko, these developments are \"shifting Kenya at a very unprecedented pace.\"\n\nThe first 3D video game developed in Africa was released by Black Division Games in June 2015. The game, titled \"Nairobi X\", achieved a large amount of international coverage due to its high graphical quality and because it was released for PC as well as Android devices.\nIn events, a young video game entertainment company called Gaming For Kenya otherwise known as G4k handled several major gaming events in the country as well as promoting the gaming culture. Their well known LAN parties, known as the \"1UP Elite\" LAN party, have gained momentum and amplified the social gaming culture in Kenya uniting gamers together to play with each other and have fun.\n\nThe Kenyan government plans to harness the technological progress of the country as part of its Vision 2030 plan, transforming the country into a \"globally competitive and prosperous nation.\" This plan also involves the construction of a \"Silicon Savannah,\" which is described as \"Africa's answer to Silicon Valley.\" Despite these plans, unemployment is common in Kenya, and a failed ICT project could leave a young person without a job to fall back on. The rise of game development is creating jobs in the region.\n\nForeign AAA video games sell for around US$100 in Kenya, making it impossible for the general public to purchase more than a handful of video games, though a rise in spending power has been noticed, with some young people buying high-end PCs valued US$17,000 and upward. An issue faced by ICT entrepreneurs is that gaming is not taken seriously by the general public, making it difficult to find financial support.\n\nAccording to Masyuko, African game development is mainly focused on mobile gaming, as this medium has the deepest penetration and the widest market. It is also considered an easier entry point as far as financing is concerned. However, Masyuko explains, \"[w]e don't have proper retail stores like the App Store ... if you want something you just go to this one-stop shop.\" Developers at University of Games state that console gaming is picking up in the country, though it is not as prevalent as the mobile market.\n\nMany cybercafes in Nairobi have a specific zone for people to play video games. These zones have proven to be more lucrative than charging for web browsing. Kenya's video game industry was estimated to be worth US$44 million at the end of 2013.\n\nIn eSports, there are roughly established bodies governing eSports events with the likes of the high-quality event Pro Series Gaming(P.S.G)\", the Tekken 254 Circuit\", the Pan African Gaming Union(P.A.G.U) Championships, Rise To Greatness - RIIG League\" and other minor tournaments such as the Kenya International Gaming Series dubbed as \"K.IN.G.S\" the Vivid Gold ePlay Tournaments, KAGE and many more. So far the Pro Series Gaming has been the most dominant eSports company in Kenya and over East and Central Africa hosting countries such as Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Zambia and Malawi. Tekken 254 usually has a regular league called the Tekken 254 Circuit that runs every month until a full seasonal circuit is over as pro gamers await for the next season. The PAGU Championships, sponsored by Gaming For Kenya and other various entities is held throughout Africa with several countries that have membership to PAGU such as Kenya, Senegal, Ghana, Zambia and other member countries. RIIG League is done occasionally is sponsored by the Holos Gaming Matrix(HGM) on the Xbox franchise.\n\nA new culture has also been adopted whereby some gamers in Kenya have started their own YouTube and Twitch.tv channels. Regionally, they are the most known gaming YouTubers, using this platform to connect with their audience and building a following.\n\nAccording to Brian Kinyua from four-man team University of Games, games offer an environment in which players can tackle social problem by themselves, without a \"mob to back you up [or] peers to cheer you on.\" Kinyua beliefs that the idea of solving societal issues with gaming should be taken more serious. University of Games released \"Election Thief\" in 2013 which promotes peace through a fictional story of attempted electoral fraud, inspired by the 2007 Kenyan election. \"Haki: Shield and Defend\" as well as its sequel \"\", similarly attempt to promote social messages such as saving trees from illegal logging and practicing peace and tolerance during Kenyan elections.\n\nLeti Arts commonly does contract development for serious games, usually for companies that are interested in educating their employees or creating learning tools. Nairobi-based studio Momentum Core has specialized in developing games for educational purposes, such as games raising awareness for HIV and education games for children.\n\nKenyan developers are mostly interested in making what they call \"African games.\" According to Kirinya, what is important is that Kenyan games should tap into African cultural heritage, such as using traditional African weaponry rather than guns or medieval armor. There are also various thematic styles associated with Africa.\n"}
