{"id": "22356929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22356929", "title": "2009 Fijian constitutional crisis", "text": "2009 Fijian constitutional crisis\n\nThe Fijian constitutional crisis of 2009 began on Friday, 10 April 2009. Fijian President Ratu Josefa Iloilo announced on a nationwide radio broadcast that he was abrogating the Constitution of Fiji. He dismissed all judges and constitutional appointees and assumed all governance in the country after the Court of Appeal ruled that the government of Prime Minister Frank Bainimarama was illegal. Iloilo reinstalled Bainimarama as PM and his Cabinet members to their positions. He also instituted emergency rule which increased police powers and allowed media censorship.\n\nOn Thursday, 9 April 2009, the Court of Appeal, the second highest in Fiji, issued a ruling stating the illegality of the 2006 Fijian coup d'état, which removed the government of Laisenia Qarase from power, replacing it with military rule. The court also called the interim government established in January 2007 \"invalid.\" The ruling legally dissolved the current parliament.\n\nThe Court of Appeals ordered President Iloilo to appoint a \"distinguished person\" to act as a caretaker Prime Minister and oversee the dissolution of parliament. The court further ordered that Iloilo was forbidden from appointing either current Prime Minister Frank Bainimarama or former Prime Minister Laisenia Qarase as the caretaker.\n\nThe Court of Appeals ruling \"prompted\" the Prime Minister to step down from power. Iloilo had sworn Bainimarama into office in January 2007. Bainimarama immediately reverted to his former position as army commander. His cabinet also resigned after the court's ruling.\n\nPresident Iloilo issued a statement the following day saying, \"I hereby confirm I have abrogated the 1997 constitution and appointed myself as head of state in the new order.\" Iloilo immediately assumed all political power in the country.\n\nIn his statement, Iloilo fired the Fijian judiciary and nullified all judicial appointments. He stated that \"All judicial appointments are no longer in place. New appointments are to be made for judges, magistrates and other judicial officers. I will soon be inviting suitable individuals to join or rejoin the bench under the new order.\" He also decreed that all existing laws would remain in place.\n\nIloilo announced that Fiji would hold democratic elections in September 2014 \"at the latest.\" He also promised to appoint an interim prime minister. To that end, he issued a decree which allowed him to appoint a Prime Minister by decree. Parliament had not met since the 2006 coup. He subsequently re-appointed Frank Bainimarama as the \"new\" Interim prime minister. Bainimarama later reinstalled all of his previous Cabinet members to their same positions. In a 17 April speech to civil servants Bainimarama announced that his government was not an interim one and that elections would not be held before 2014: \"A new Legal Order means there is no longer the old. There is no need to speculate as to what happened, how it happened, what should have happened or what should not have happened. What is, is now, and the future.\" Iloilo's announcement of a new judiciary clarified that the abrogation of the constitution would not be subject to any judicial review.\n\nFiji was placed under a \"Public Emergency Regulation\", putting the country under emergency rule for 30 days. This regulation gave the police the right \"to control the movement of people\" and to stop any broadcast or publication it deemed \"could cause disorder, promote disaffection or public alarm or undermine the government or state of Fiji\". On some key roads, police had established roadblocks but the military was not involved. Police \"postponed\" any assemblies of more than 100 people and revoked permits already issued including the annual meeting of the Fiji Nursing Association and perhaps the elections of the Fiji Teachers Union. In July, the annual Methodist general meeting was not given a permit. Several Methodist Church leaders and a village high chief who was providing space for the meeting were arrested and released on condition that they not appear in public. The Methodist annual meeting scheduled for August was later cancelled by church leadership.\n\nAll positions established under the 1997 Constitution were held to be vacant. In the following days, some of these office holders were reinstalled into the same offices, including the Commissioner of Police, the Commissioner of Prisons, the Commander of the RFMF, the Solicitor General. Others were not reappointed as in the case of the Governor of the Reserve Bank of Fiji who was replaced by the Deputy Governor. Other positions were not immediately refilled, such as the courts, the Constitutional Offices Commission, the Judicial Service Commission, the Disciplined Services Commission and the Human Rights Commission.\n\nOn 31 July, President Iloilo, 88 years old and thought to be ill, retired after having served since 2000 through all the coups, except for one month in 2006 when Bainimarama gave himself Presidential powers. Iloilo was replaced by the Vice-President, Brigadier-General Ratu Epeli Nailatikau, a former military commander. Under the 1997 Constitution, the President was supposed to be appointed by the Great Council of Chiefs, but with the Constitution suspended, Bainimarama announced that a replacement would be appointed by himself and his Cabinet at a time suitable for the regime.\n\nAs well as the rest of the world, Fiji had been influenced by the global financial crisis of 2008–2009 before the constitutional crisis began. Fiji's foreign currency reserves had fallen by 1/3 during 2008 and, in February 2009, Standard and Poor's downgraded Fiji's long term credit rating from stable to negative. Exports increased in 2008 and inflation declined; however, cashflow suffered from the global financial crisis and imports increased leading to a larger negative balance of trade.\n\nAfter the constitutional crisis began, the Governor of the Reserve Bank of Fiji was removed from his position, as were all other people appointed to positions under the 1997 Constitution. The Reserve Bank quickly made several major moves, imposing currency exchange restrictions and devaluing the currency by 20% to benefit exporters and tourism. On 16 April, the Bank ordered Australian banks operating in Fiji to limit interest rates and institute microlending programs. Standard and Poor's lowered Fiji's credit rating on 16 April, with short term credit falling to a C from a B rating. On 21 April, Moody's lowered Fiji's government bond, foreign currency bank deposit and foreign currency bond ratings, into junk bond status, stating \"Political instability is weakening Fiji's long-term economic strength\" among other reasons.\n\nIn a move claimed to be aimed at cutting public corruption, Bainimarama announced \"As a first up, from next week, all government vehicles being driven after hours will need to carry permits.\" Soldiers and police would be empowered to check for these permits.\n\nAs a cost-cutting measure, the mandatory retirement age for civil servants was reduced to 55, with 30 April 2009 set as the retirement day for any over that age. Since 2007, the Fiji Teacher Association had been fighting the order to lower the retirement age from 60 to 55; the Public Service Association had later joined as a party to the lawsuit. Certain high-level positions were given a retirement age of 65, including the position of Commander of the Military Forces held by Bainimarama who will turn 55 three days before the decree goes into effect. The decree was expected to force the retirement of over 800 teachers and about 100 nurses. (Another 40 nurses had already moved overseas during 2009 before the decree.)\n\nReports indicated that as part of the Emergency Regulation \"a Ministry of Information officer and a plain-clothed policeman would be stationed in every newsroom\". The Permanent Secretary of the Department of Information explained the policy, saying that media are to \"refrain from publishing and broadcasting any news item that is negative in nature, relating to the assumption of executive authority on 10 April...and the subsequent appointments...\" Immediately after the decree as a form of protest, Fiji One TV did not run its evening news program and the \"Fiji Times\" went to press with large blank spaces where censored articles were removed. The \"Fiji Sun\" announced that it would no longer run any political stories of any sort. The \"Fiji Daily Post\" mocked the restrictions, publishing stories under \"Man gets on bus\" and \"Breakfast as usual\".\n\nOn 13 April two of the last remaining foreign journalists in Fiji were called to Government House by the Ministry of Information. ABC Pacific Correspondent Sean Dorney was asked to voluntarily leave Fiji—which he refused citing his valid visa—and TV3 reporter Sia Aston's footage was confiscated by Fijian authorities. Both Dorney and Aston were deported from Fiji on 14 April, with Aston and TV3 cameraman Matt Smith banned from ever returning to Fiji, with the interim Government stating that all three had breached their visa conditions. Edwin Nand, a local journalist for Fiji TV, was imprisoned for 36 hours after he interviewed Dorney. Fijian Military spokesman Neumi Leweni stated that foreign journalists were welcome in Fiji, but must first apply and that \"the invitation is decidedly conditional.\" However, during an interview with Radio New Zealand, Bainimarama said it was not necessary for their reporter to visit Fiji: \"You just ask me the questions, I will give you the answers.\" On 17 April, military spokesman Neumi Leweni said foreign media personnel would have to apply to his office for visas and approval would be \"based on how they have reported about Fiji in the past, if they have, or on the undertaking that they will report accurately and responsibly.\"\n\nFijian media outlets and journalists have also come under government scrutiny. There were rumours of the imminent deportation of Anne Fussell, the publisher of the Fiji Times newspaper. Three newspaper editors had been deported in the 14 months before the crisis. Fijian journalists working for international media outlets have also been called before the military to explain reports.\n\nThe Government has also shut down two ABC FM transmitters, meaning that both ABC and Radio New Zealand International are only available to Fiji via the shortwave service. Internet cafes have also become a target because of independent news bloggers, with many having to shut down. Networks, software and archives are inspected by government officials, with Commodore Bainimarama saying that free speech \"causes trouble\" and must be curbed in order for the Government to carry out reforms.\n\nThe Pacnews wire service announced they will no longer cover Fiji stories after police and censors required them to remove a story on the UN statements about the crisis. The announcement followed the detention of journalist Pita Ligaiula, a writer for Pacnews and correspondent for the Australian Associated Press, who was arrested by two police officers and an official for the Ministry of Information on 15 April 2009. Matai Akauola, of the Pacific Islands News Association, reported that one of Ligaiula's bylines may have violated Fiji's current media restrictions. Pacnews has announced that it has no plans to relocate from its headquarters in Suva, Fiji, to another country due to the restrictions on reporting Fijian domestic news.\n\nThe Soqosoqo Duavata ni Lewenivanua party declared that the suspension of the constitution was another coup. The National Federation Party also condemned the President's actions. The Fiji Labour Party said that the country could not sustain a five-year wait for elections and urged elections to be called sooner.\n\nThe UN Secretary General called for the \"restoration of a legitimate government\". The U.S. spoke of \"deep disappointment\" and Australia called the situation \"grave and unwelcome\". New Zealand's Foreign Minister referred to the situation as \"a sorry recipe that has been tried by dictators in a number of other countries, always with tragic consequences.\" New Zealand Prime Minister John Key said that \"the reality is that unless there is some miraculous turn around of events, Fiji is going to be suspended by the [Pacific Islands] forum in roughly two weeks,\" and that he would back immediate action. The forum's chair, Niue's Premier Toke Talagi, is also advocating immediate suspension.\n\nSamoan Prime Minister Tuilaepa Sailele took a particularly strong stance, saying \"But one day soon the puppets will grow a brain and see Frank for the evil puppeteer he really is. It is then the curtains will fall on Frank..The whole thing is a political charade and the whole world is watching. Nobody is fooled and no one is laughing. Frank is only fooling himself..Go put back on his military uniform or..maybe, he’d look better in a prison uniform.\"\n\nThe United Nations Security Council issued a statement: \"The members of the Security Council are deeply concerned about the situation in Fiji, where undemocratic decisions were made, including the abrogation of the constitution. The members of the Security Council express hopes that Fiji will make a steadfast advancement towards democracy and that fair elections will be held as soon as possible.\" The United Nations also said that it would not increase the number of Fijian police or soldiers involved in its peacekeeping operations, or deploy them on any future missions, although it would continue to use them in its existing operations.\n\nOn 1 May, the Pacific Islands Forum suspended Fiji's membership as they had threatened months before if Fiji had not scheduled elections by that date. The 2009 suspension marked the first time that a country had been suspended from the Pacific Islands Forum in the history of the 38-year-old organization. As part of its suspensions, Fiji was also excluded from the discussions on the Pacific Agreement on Closer Economic Relations (PACER) and the Pacific Free Trade Agreement (PICTA).\n\nThe Commonwealth of Nations suspended Fiji from its councils. In August, the Commonwealth gave Fiji until 1 September to announce scheduled elections to occur no later than October 2010. Failing that, Fiji would be \"fully suspended\" from the Commonwealth, a threat that was carried out when no such announcement was made.\n\nAustralia and New Zealand suspended diplomatic relations in 2009. Full diplomatic relations were restored on 30 July 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "42210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42210", "title": "Arms trafficking", "text": "Arms trafficking\n\nArms trafficking, also known as gunrunning, is the trafficking of contraband weapons and ammunition. What constitutes legal trade in firearms varies widely, depending on local and national laws.\n\nThe 1999 Report of the UN Panel of Governmental Experts on Small Arms provides a more refined and precise definition, which has become internationally accepted. This distinguishes between small arms (revolvers and self-loading pistols, rifles and carbines, submachine guns, assault rifles, and light machine guns), which are weapons designed for personal use, and light weapons (heavy machine guns, hand-held under-barrel and mounted grenade launchers, portable anti-aircraft guns, portable anti-tanks guns, recoilless rifles, portable launchers of anti-aircraft missile systems, and mortars of calibres less than 100 mm), which are designed for use by several persons serving as a unit. Ammunition and explosives also form an integral part of small arms and light weapons used in conflict.\n\nAlthough arms trafficking is widespread in regions of political turmoil, it is not limited to such areas, and for example, in South Asia, an estimated 63 million guns have been trafficked into India and Pakistan.\n\nThe suppression of gunrunning is one of the areas of increasing interest in the context of international law. Examples of past and current gunrunning include:\n\nIn the United States, the term \"Iron Pipeline\" is sometimes used to describe Interstate Highway 95 and its connector highways as a corridor for arms trafficking into New York City.\n\nThe total value of the global arms market is estimated around $60 billion a year, with around $8 billion attributed to pistols, rifles, machine guns, and bullets. The total illegal arms trade is harder to estimate, but the illicit small arms market has been estimated at 10–20% of the total global arms trade.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1128156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1128156", "title": "Australian Customs and Border Protection Service", "text": "Australian Customs and Border Protection Service\n\nThe Australian Customs and Border Protection Service was the Australian federal government agency responsible for managing the security and integrity of the Australian border. It facilitated the movement of legitimate international travellers and goods, whilst protecting the safety, security and commercial interests of Australians.\n\nThe Service was an agency under the Attorney-General's Department from 2009 to 2013 and was then transferred to the newly formed Department of Immigration and Border Protection in 2013 until its transformation into the Border Force in 2015.\n\nThe Australian Customs and Border Protection Service employed over 5,800 people around Australia and overseas and was headquartered in Canberra.\n\nThe Service defined its role as follows:\n\"“Our role is complex and diverse and requires a very considered and increasingly targeted approach to conducting our business. If we do not manage our responsibilities effectively, the potential impacts… may negatively affect the Australian community, international travellers and trade relations both here and overseas”\" \n\nThe Service was Australia's predominant border control agency. From international travellers at airports, to overseas mail and trade brought in by sea, it was responsible for the continued safety and security of the people and goods that travel across Australia's borders.\nIn conjunction with the Australian Defence Force, the Service facilitated Australia's response to the detection and rescue of 'suspected irregular entry vessels' that smuggled people from South-East Asia into Australian waters. The agency was also responsible for the discovery and apprehension of 'illegal foreign fishing vessels', the patrol of remote Australian and international waters, and aerial surveillance of Australia’s coastline. To achieve these functions, the Service operated its own air and sea patrol unit, the Customs Marine Unit.\n\nThe Service used an intelligence-led, risk-based approach to managing threats, focussing on specific targets that may pose a risk to the border. This allowed the agency to plan coordinated responses, interventions and strategies with various other government agencies, including; Australian Crime Commission, Australian Federal Police, Attorney-General’s Department, Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry, Department of Defence, Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Department of Immigration and Border Protection and the Office of Transport Security.\n\nCustoms controlled the import and export of goods to and from Australia, in particular the control of prohibited or restricted items, and the interception of illegal and potentially harmful goods such as drugs, weapons and computer games. Techniques used to target high-risk aircraft, vessels, cargo, postal items and travellers included using intelligence, computer-based profiling and analysis, detector dogs, Smartgate, container X-ray facilities, closed-circuit television (CCTV) monitoring and other means.\n\nCustoms officers at air and sea ports, in addition to performing basic immigration control (see below), assessed passengers arrival and departure cards, and had the authority to scan and search passenger baggage. Quarantine risk material could be referred to Australian Quarantine and Inspection Service officers.\n\nGoods arriving from overseas by post were cleared by Customs and AQIS officers before being released to Australia Post for delivery.\n\nCustoms collected goods and services tax (GST) on taxable goods imported into Australia.\n\nCustoms administered the Tourist Refund Scheme (TRS) for tourists visiting Australia temporarily or Australian residents leaving the country, allowing them, under certain conditions, to claim a refund of the GST or Wine equalisation tax on items purchased in Australia.\n\nThe Service was the lead agency in the Australian government’s response to people-smuggling and often performed activities on behalf of other agencies including:\n\nThe Service operated under the 'National Counter-Terrorism Plan', which was a plan intended to mitigate any risk of terrorism in Australia. The Service worked in conjunction with other Australian Government departments to screen and target any potential threats moving across the border, including:\n\nThe Service was responsible for processing all travellers entering and leaving the country. At the border, Service officers would check all passengers to ensure compliance with customs, immigration and quarantine requirements. The Service's purpose was to stop people without correct documentation or visas from entering the country.\n\nOne of the largest areas of work undertaken by the Service was in relation to the importation of narcotics and precursor substances and the smuggling of illegal amounts of tobacco. Examination techniques such as x-ray, trace detection technology and detector dogs were used to screen people, goods, mail, vessels and aircraft moving across Australia’s border.\n\nAustralian law prohibits the importing of any material of an offensive or grotesque nature. The Service worked to prevent the importation of material that was either refused classification by the Australian Classification Board, or was unclassified but would not be deemed as acceptable viewing by the Australian Classification Board. This included material in electronic form such as CDs or DVDs, computer hard drives and within electronic games. Prohibited material included:\n\nThe Service was the lead agency coordinating regular patrol (both aerial surveillance and on-water) of Australia's 'Exclusive Economic Zone' to detect and deter any foreign fishing vessels. Along with dedicated in-country education programs designed to deter people from undertaking illegal fishing, the Service's work saw a continual decline in the rates of foreign fishing vessels entering the EEZ.\n\nThe Australian Customs and Border Protection Service had its origins in the Department of Trade and Customs, established at federation in 1901. The organisation was restructured several times since, including becoming the Department of Customs and Excise in 1958 and then briefly the Department of Police and Customs in 1975. Later that same year, the Bureau of Customs was established, which remained the Australian Government's customs agency until 1985 when the Australian Customs Service was established.\n\nIn December 2008 then Prime Minister Kevin Rudd announced that the Australian Government would be augmenting, re-tasking and renaming the Australian Customs Service to create the new Australian Customs and Border Protection Service. Royal assent was given to the changes on 22 May 2009 and the Australian Customs and Border Protection Service was established.\n\nIn 2015, the Australian Government announced changes to the Immigration and Border Protection portfolio in relation to future border protection arrangements. From 1 July 2015, the Department of Immigration and Border Protection and the Australian Customs and Border Protection Service were consolidated into a single Department of Immigration and Border Protection. At this time, the Australian Border Force, a single frontline operational border agency, was established within the department. The Australian Border Force draws together the operational border, investigations, compliance, detention and enforcement functions of the two existing agencies. Policy, regulatory and corporate functions will combine within the broader department.\n\nWhen it existed, each week the Service would:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46573550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46573550", "title": "BaFa' BaFa'", "text": "BaFa' BaFa'\n\nBaFá BaFá is a face-to-face learning simulation (game), invented by Dr. R. Garry Shirts in 1974, who also invented StarPower, and is published by Simulation Training Systems, Inc. The simulation is intended to improve participants' cross-cultural competence by helping them understand the impact of culture on the behavior of people and organizations. Participants experience \"culture shock\" by traveling to and trying to interact with a culture in which the people have different values, different ways of behaving and different ways of solving problems. There are three versions, one for high schools, charities and universities, one for middle school aged children called RaFá RaFá, and a professional version for business and government agencies.\n\n\"Around 1971, the U.S. Navy became very concerned about the behavior of American Sailors on leave in foreign ports, specifically Greece and Japan, and determined to do something to avoid incidents that were threatening relations between the United States and its allies. The Navy Personnel Research and Development Center approached Garry Shirts for assistance in creating a simulation that would teach naval personnel about the specific cultures where incidents had occurred. The Navy had created print material, readily available to the sailors, that explained Greek culture, so a lack of information was not the problem; it was the apparent failure to put it to use.\n\nShirts decided that educating people was only part of the answer; it was also necessary to help them understand the nature of culture itself and its impact on human interaction. This would, he postulated, motivate them to learn how to interact effectively within any cultural environment. The result was the simulation game BaFá BaFá, which was originally accompanied by training modules, a comic strip, and language tapes. This was the first intercultural simulation, and when it was made generally available in 1974, it became the most widely used and well-known simulation in the field (Shirts 1974, 1975). It was founded on the idea of having trainees learn and become members of two contrasting cultures, Alpha and Beta, and then visiting each other. One is a more collectivist, people-oriented, touching culture, and the other, using a different language, is more individualistic and task oriented. The point of the interaction between members of the two cultures is to teach \"that what seems irrational, contradictory, or unimportant to us in our culture may seem rational, consistent, and terribly important in another culture\" (Shirts, 1995). Other simulations have been created in the field, but all owe some credit for inspiration to this one, the classic that has provided a model for intercultural simulation games.\"\n\nBaFá BaFá is adaptable and has been used in many different settings including with any groups that have different cultures, whether because of geographical location, political beliefs, race, organizational structure, mergers, sexual orientation, etc. Some examples of ways it has been used:\n"}
{"id": "290622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290622", "title": "Biometrics", "text": "Biometrics\n\nBiometrics is the technical term for body measurements and calculations. It refers to metrics related to human characteristics. Biometrics authentication (or realistic authentication) is used in computer science as a form of identification and access control. It is also used to identify individuals in groups that are under surveillance.\n\nBiometric identifiers are the distinctive, measurable characteristics used to label and describe individuals. Biometric identifiers are often categorized as physiological versus behavioral characteristics. Physiological characteristics are related to the shape of the body. Examples include, but are not limited to fingerprint, palm veins, face recognition, DNA, palm print, hand geometry, iris recognition, retina and odour/scent. Behavioral characteristics are related to the pattern of behavior of a person, including but not limited to typing rhythm, gait, and voice. Some researchers have coined the term behaviometrics to describe the latter class of biometrics.\n\nMore traditional means of access control include token-based identification systems, such as a driver's license or passport, and knowledge-based identification systems, such as a password or personal identification number. Since biometric identifiers are unique to individuals, they are more reliable in verifying identity than token and knowledge-based methods; however, the collection of biometric identifiers raises privacy concerns about the ultimate use of this information.\n\nMany different aspects of human physiology, chemistry or behavior can be used for biometric authentication. The selection of a particular biometric for use in a specific application involves a weighting of several factors. Jain \"et al.\" (1999) identified seven such factors to be used when assessing the suitability of any trait for use in biometric authentication. \n\nProper biometric use is very application dependent. Certain biometrics will be better than others based on the required levels of convenience and security. No single biometric will meet all the requirements of every possible application.\n\nThe block diagram illustrates the two basic modes of a biometric system. First, in verification (or authentication) mode the system performs a one-to-one comparison of a captured biometric with a specific template stored in a biometric database in order to verify the individual is the person they claim to be. Three steps are involved in the verification of a person. In the first step, reference models for all the users are generated and stored in the model database. In the second step, some samples are matched with reference models to generate the genuine and impostor scores and calculate the threshold. Third step is the testing step. This process may use a smart card, username or ID number (e.g. PIN) to indicate which template should be used for comparison. 'Positive recognition' is a common use of the verification mode, \"where the aim is to prevent multiple people from using the same identity\".\n\nSecond, in identification mode the system performs a one-to-many comparison against a biometric database in an attempt to establish the identity of an unknown individual. The system will succeed in identifying the individual if the comparison of the biometric sample to a template in the database falls within a previously set threshold. Identification mode can be used either for 'positive recognition' (so that the user does not have to provide any information about the template to be used) or for 'negative recognition' of the person \"where the system establishes whether the person is who she (implicitly or explicitly) denies to be\". The latter function can only be achieved through biometrics since other methods of personal recognition such as passwords, PINs or keys are ineffective.\n\nThe first time an individual uses a biometric system is called \"enrollment\". During the enrollment, biometric information from an individual is captured and stored. In subsequent uses, biometric information is detected and compared with the information stored at the time of enrollment. Note that it is crucial that storage and retrieval of such systems themselves be secure if the biometric system is to be robust. The first block (sensor) is the interface between the real world and the system; it has to acquire all the necessary data. Most of the times it is an image acquisition system, but it can change according to the characteristics desired. The second block performs all the necessary pre-processing: it has to remove artifacts from the sensor, to enhance the input (e.g. removing background noise), to use some kind of normalization, etc. In the third block necessary features are extracted. This step is an important step as the correct features need to be extracted in the optimal way. A vector of numbers or an image with particular properties is used to create a \"template\". A template is a synthesis of the relevant characteristics extracted from the source. Elements of the biometric measurement that are not used in the comparison algorithm are discarded in the template to reduce the filesize and to protect the identity of the enrollee.\n\nDuring the enrollment phase, the template is simply stored somewhere (on a card or within a database or both). During the matching phase, the obtained template is passed to a matcher that compares it with other existing templates, estimating the distance between them using any algorithm (e.g. Hamming distance). The matching program will analyze the template with the input. This will then be output for any specified use or purpose (e.g. entrance in a restricted area).\nSelection of biometrics in any practical application depending upon the characteristic measurements and user requirements. In selecting a particular biometric, factors to consider include, performance, social acceptability, ease of circumvention and/or spoofing, robustness, population coverage, size of equipment needed and identity theft deterrence. Selection of a biometric based on user requirements considers sensor and device availability, computational time and reliability, cost, sensor size and power consumption.\n\nMultimodal biometric systems use multiple sensors or biometrics to overcome the limitations of unimodal biometric systems. For instance iris recognition systems can be compromised by aging irises and finger scanning systems by worn-out or cut fingerprints. While unimodal biometric systems are limited by the integrity of their identifier, it is unlikely that several unimodal systems will suffer from identical limitations. Multimodal biometric systems can obtain sets of information from the same marker (i.e., multiple images of an iris, or scans of the same finger) or information from different biometrics (requiring fingerprint scans and, using voice recognition, a spoken pass-code).\n\nMultimodal biometric systems can fuse these unimodal systems sequentially, simultaneously, a combination thereof, or in series, which refer to sequential, parallel, hierarchical and serial integration modes, respectively.\nFusion of the biometrics information can occur at different stages of a recognition system. In case of feature level fusion, the data itself or the features extracted from multiple biometrics are fused. Matching-score level fusion consolidates the scores generated by multiple classifiers pertaining to different modalities. Finally, in case of decision level fusion the final results of multiple classifiers are combined via techniques such as majority voting. Feature level fusion is believed to be more effective than the other levels of fusion because the feature set contains richer information about the input biometric data than the matching score or the output decision of a classifier. Therefore, fusion at the feature level is expected to provide better recognition results.\n\nSpoof attacks consist in submitting fake biometric traits to biometric systems, and are a major threat that can curtail their security. Multi-modal biometric systems are commonly believed to be intrinsically more robust to spoof attacks, but recent studies have shown that they can be evaded by spoofing even a single biometric trait.\n\nThe following are used as performance metrics for biometric systems:\n\nAn early cataloging of fingerprints dates back to 1891 when Juan Vucetich started a collection of fingerprints of criminals in Argentina. Josh Ellenbogen and Nitzan Lebovic argued that Biometrics is originated in the identificatory systems of criminal activity developed by Alphonse Bertillon (1853–1914) and developed by Francis Galton's theory of fingerprints and physiognomy. According to Lebovic, Galton's work \"led to the application of mathematical models to fingerprints, phrenology, and facial characteristics\", as part of \"absolute identification\" and \"a key to both inclusion and exclusion\" of populations. Accordingly, \"the biometric system is the absolute political weapon of our era\" and a form of \"soft control\". The theoretician David Lyon showed that during the past two decades biometric systems have penetrated the civilian market, and blurred the lines between governmental forms of control and private corporate control. Kelly A. Gates identified 9/11 as the turning point for the cultural language of our present: \"in the language of cultural studies, the aftermath of 9/11 was a moment of articulation, where objects or events that have no necessary connection come together and a new discourse formation is established: automated facial recognition as a homeland security technology.\" Kelly A. Gates, \"Our Biometric Future: Facial Recognition Technology and the Culture of Surveillance\" (New York, 2011), p. 100.\n\nAdaptive biometric systems aim to auto-update the templates or model to the intra-class variation of the operational data. The two-fold advantages of these systems are solving the problem of limited training data and tracking the temporal variations of the input data through adaptation. Recently, adaptive biometrics have received a significant attention from the research community. This research direction is expected to gain momentum because of their key promulgated advantages. First, with an adaptive biometric system, one no longer needs to collect a large number of biometric samples during the enrollment process. Second, it is no longer necessary to re-enroll or retrain the system from scratch in order to cope with the changing environment. This convenience can significantly reduce the cost of maintaining a biometric system. Despite these advantages, there are several open issues involved with these systems. For mis-classification error (false acceptance) by the biometric system, cause adaptation using impostor sample. However, continuous research efforts are directed to resolve the open issues associated to the field of adaptive biometrics. More information about adaptive biometric systems can be found in the critical review by Rattani \"et al.\"\n\nIn recent times, biometrics based on brain (electroencephalogram) and heart (electrocardiogram) signals have emerged. The research group at University of Kent led by Ramaswamy Palaniappan has shown that people have certain distinct brain and heart patterns that are specific for each individual. Another example is finger vein recognition, using pattern-recognition techniques, based on images of human vascular patterns. The advantage of such 'futuristic' technology is that it is more fraud resistant compared to conventional biometrics like fingerprints. However, such technology is generally more cumbersome and still has issues such as lower accuracy and poor reproducibility over time. \nThis new generation of biometrical systems is called biometrics of intent and it aims to scan \"intent\". The technology will analyze physiological features such as eye movement, body temperature, breathing etc. and predict dangerous behaviour or hostile intent before it materializes into action.\n\nOn the portability side of biometric products, more and more vendors are embracing significantly miniaturized biometric authentication systems (BAS) thereby driving elaborate cost savings, especially for large-scale deployments.\n\nAn operator signature is a biometric mode where the manner in which a person using a device or complex system is recorded as a verification template. One potential use for this type of biometric signature is to distinguish among remote users of telerobotic surgery systems that utilize public networks for communication.\n\nJohn Michael (Mike) McConnell, a former vice admiral in the United States Navy, a former Director of U.S. National Intelligence, and Senior Vice President of Booz Allen Hamilton promoted the development of a future capability to require biometric authentication to access certain public networks in his keynote speech at the 2009 Biometric Consortium Conference.\n\nA basic premise in the above proposal is that the person that has uniquely authenticated themselves using biometrics with the computer is in fact also the agent performing potentially malicious actions from that computer. However, if control of the computer has been subverted, for example in which the computer is part of a botnet controlled by a hacker, then knowledge of the identity of the user at the terminal does not materially improve network security or aid law enforcement activities.\n\nRecently, another approach to biometric security was developed, this method scans the entire body of prospects to guarantee a better identification of this prospect. This method is not globally accepted because it is very complex and prospects are concerned about their privacy.\n\nBiometrics have been considered also instrumental to the development of state authority (to put it in Foucauldian terms, of discipline and biopower). By turning the human subject into a collection of biometric parameters, biometrics would dehumanize the person, infringe bodily integrity, and, ultimately, offend human dignity.\n\nIn a well-known case, Italian philosopher Giorgio Agamben refused to enter the United States in protest at the United States Visitor and Immigrant Status Indicator (US-VISIT) program’s requirement for visitors to be fingerprinted and photographed. Agamben argued that gathering of biometric data is a form of bio-political tattooing, akin to the tattooing of Jews during the Holocaust. According to Agamben, biometrics turn the human persona into a bare body. Agamben refers to the two words used by Ancient Greeks for indicating \"life\", \"zoe\", which is the life common to animals and humans, just life; and \"bios\", which is life in the human context, with meanings and purposes. Agamben envisages the reduction to bare bodies for the whole humanity. For him, a new bio-political relationship between citizens and the state is turning citizens into pure biological life (\"zoe\") depriving them from their humanity (\"bios\"); and biometrics would herald this new world.\n\nIn Dark Matters: On the Surveillance of Blackness, surveillance scholar Simone Browne formulates a similar critique as Agamben, citing a recent study relating to biometrics R&D that found that the gender classification system being researched \"is inclined to classify Africans as males and Mongoloids as females.\" Consequently, Browne argues that the conception of an objective biometric technology is difficult if such systems are subjectively designed, and are vulnerable to cause errors as described in the study above. The stark expansion of biometric technologies in both the public and private sector magnifies this concern. The increasing commodification of biometrics by the private sector adds to this danger of loss of human value. Indeed, corporations value the biometric characteristics more than the individuals value them. Browne goes on to suggest that modern society should incorporate a \"biometric consciousness\" that \"entails informed public debate around these technologies and their application, and accountability by the state and the private sector, where the ownership of and access to one's own body data and other intellectual property that is generated from one's body data must be understood as a right.\"\n\nOther scholars have emphasized, however, that the globalized world is confronted with a huge mass of people with weak or absent civil identities. Most developing countries have weak and unreliable documents and the poorer people in these countries do not have even those unreliable documents. Without certified personal identities, there is no certainty of right, no civil liberty. One can claim her rights, including the right to refuse to be identified, only if she is an identifiable subject, if she has a public identity. In such a sense, biometrics could play a pivotal role in supporting and promoting respect for human dignity and fundamental rights.\n\nThe biometrics of intent poses further risks. In his paper in Harvard International Review, Prof Nayef Al-Rodhan cautions about the high risks of miscalculations, wrongful accusations and infringements of civil liberties. Critics in the US have also signalled a conflict with the 4th Amendment.\n\nIt is possible that data obtained during biometric enrollment may be used in ways for which the enrolled individual has not consented. For example, most biometric features could disclose physiological and/or pathological medical conditions (e.g., some fingerprint patterns are related to chromosomal diseases, iris patterns could reveal genetic sex, hand vein patterns could reveal vascular diseases, most behavioral biometrics could reveal neurological diseases, etc.). Moreover, second generation biometrics, notably behavioral and electro-physiologic biometrics (e.g., based on electrocardiography, electroencephalography, electromyography), could be also used for emotion detection.\n\nThere are three categories of privacy concerns:\n\nWhen thieves cannot get access to secure properties, there is a chance that the thieves will stalk and assault the property owner to gain access. If the item is secured with a biometric device, the damage to the owner could be irreversible, and potentially cost more than the secured property. For example, in 2005, Malaysian car thieves cut off the finger of a Mercedes-Benz S-Class owner when attempting to steal the car.\n\nOne advantage of passwords over biometrics is that they can be re-issued. If a token or a password is lost or stolen, it can be cancelled and replaced by a newer version. This is not naturally available in biometrics. If someone's face is compromised from a database, they cannot cancel or reissue it. If the electronic biometric identifier is stolen, it is nearly impossible to change a biometric feature. This renders the person’s biometric feature questionable for future use in authentication, such as the case with the hacking of security-clearance-related background information from the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) in the United States.\n\nCancelable biometrics is a way in which to incorporate protection and the replacement features into biometrics to create a more secure system. It was first proposed by Ratha \"et al.\"\n\n\"Cancelable biometrics refers to the intentional and systematically repeatable distortion of biometric features in order to protect sensitive user-specific data. If a cancelable feature is compromised, the distortion characteristics are changed, and the same biometrics is mapped to a new template, which is used subsequently. Cancelable biometrics is one of the major categories for biometric template protection purpose besides biometric cryptosystem.\" In biometric cryptosystem, \"the error-correcting coding techniques are employed to handle intraclass variations.\" This ensures a high level of security but has limitations such as specific input format of only small intraclass variations.\n\nSeveral methods for generating new exclusive biometrics have been proposed. The first fingerprint-based cancelable biometric system was designed and developed by Tulyakov \"et al.\" Essentially, cancelable biometrics perform a distortion of the biometric image or features before matching. The variability in the distortion parameters provides the cancelable nature of the scheme. Some of the proposed techniques operate using their own recognition engines, such as Teoh \"et al.\" and Savvides \"et al.\", whereas other methods, such as Dabbah \"et al.\", take the advantage of the advancement of the well-established biometric research for their recognition front-end to conduct recognition. Although this increases the restrictions on the protection system, it makes the cancellable templates more accessible for available biometric technologies\n\nSoft biometrics traits are physical, behavioral or adhered human characteristics that have been derived from the way human beings normally distinguish their peers (e.g. height, gender, hair color). They are used to complement the identity information provided by the primary biometric identifiers. Although soft biometric characteristics lack the distinctiveness and permanence to recognize an individual uniquely and reliably, and can be easily faked, they provide some evidence about the users identity that could be beneficial. In other words, despite the fact they are unable to individualize a subject, they are effective in distinguishing between people. Combinations of personal attributes like gender, race, eye color, height and other visible identification marks can be used to improve the performance of traditional biometric systems. Most soft biometrics can be easily collected and are actually collected during enrollment. Two main ethical issues are raised by soft biometrics. First, some of soft biometric traits are strongly cultural based; e.g., skin colors for determining ethnicity risk to support racist approaches, biometric sex recognition at the best recognizes gender from tertiary sexual characters, being unable to determine genetic and chromosomal sexes; soft biometrics for aging recognition are often deeply influenced by ageist stereotypes, etc. Second, soft biometrics have strong potential for categorizing and profiling people, so risking of supporting processes of stigmatization and exclusion.\n\nMany countries, including the United States, are planning to share biometric data with other nations.\n\nIn testimony before the US House Appropriations Committee, Subcommittee on Homeland Security on \"biometric identification\" in 2009, Kathleen Kraninger and Robert A Mocny commented on international cooperation and collaboration with respect to biometric data, as follows:\nAccording to an article written in 2009 by S. Magnuson in the National Defense Magazine entitled \"Defense Department Under Pressure to Share Biometric Data\" the United States has bilateral agreements with other nations aimed at sharing biometric data. To quote that article:\nCertain members of the civilian community are worried about how biometric data is used but full disclosure may not be forthcoming. In particular, the Unclassified Report of the United States' Defense Science Board Task Force on Defense Biometrics states that it is wise to protect, and sometimes even to disguise, the true and total extent of national capabilities in areas related directly to the conduct of security-related activities. This also potentially applies to Biometrics. It goes on to say that this is a classic feature of intelligence and military operations. In short, the goal is to preserve the security of 'sources and methods'.\n\nCountries using biometrics include Australia, Brazil, Canada, Cyprus, Greece, China, Gambia, Germany, India, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Malaysia, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, South Africa, Saudi Arabia, Tanzania, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United States and Venezuela.\n\nAmong low to middle income countries, roughly 1.2 billion people have already received identification through a biometric identification program.\n\nThere are also numerous countries applying biometrics for voter registration and similar electoral purposes. According to the International IDEA’s ICTs in Elections Database, some of the countries using (2017) Biometric Voter Registration (BVR) are Armenia, Angola, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon, Chad, Colombia, Comoros, Congo (Democratic Republic of), Costa Rica, Ivory Coast, Dominican Republic, Fiji, Gambia, Ghana, Guatemala, India, Iraq, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Panama, Peru, The Philippines, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somaliland, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Zambia, and Zimbabwe.\n\nIndia's national ID program called Aadhaar is the largest biometric database in the world. It is a biometrics-based digital identity assigned for a person's lifetime, verifiable online instantly in the public domain, at any time, from anywhere, in a paperless way. It is designed to enable government agencies to deliver a retail public service, securely based on biometric data (fingerprint, iris scan and face photo), along with demographic data (name, age, gender, address, parent/spouse name, mobile phone number) of a person. The data is transmitted in encrypted form over the internet for authentication, aiming to free it from the limitations of physical presence of a person at a given place.\n\nAbout 550 million residents have been enrolled and assigned 480 million Aadhaar national identification numbers as of 7 November 2013. It aims to cover the entire population of 1.2 billion in a few years. However, it is being challenged by critics over privacy concerns and possible transformation of the state into a surveillance state, or into a banana republic.§ The project was also met with mistrust regarding the safety of the social protection infrastructures. To tackle the fear amongst the people, India’s supreme court put a new ruling into action that stated that privacy from then on was seen as a fundamental right. On 24th of August 2017 this new law was established.\n\nThe world is at a threshold where everyone and everything has become more connected. This interconnectivity ensures easy access to data, to improve oneself or the harm others. For technologies within biometric authentication to evolve six pillars are considered to be paramount for this:\n\n1. Establishing authenticity. The system should at all times be able to recognize the user of the system.\n\n2. Enhancing performance. Biometrics should improve processes within companies and make it easier at, for example, airports for passengers. By having quick and thorough checks, a lot of time can be saved.\n\n3. Accuracy. Correct authentication is not always guaranteed. In the traditional password system, a correct password always corresponds with an identity. In biometrics authentication does not happen 100% of the times.\n\n4. Costs. The results should outweigh the costs necessary to implement the systems.\n\n5. Integrity. Authentication is of no use if the system cannot assure that the user provided that characteristic is indeed the owner.\n\n6. Ease of use.\n\nFor the biometric world to evolve, two factors are needed:\n\nPersonal privacy should be a core element while developing all new products/services. Anyone who is involved in the creation of the new technologies must ensure that it is appropriately used.\n\nAny political issue should be adequately formulated in such a way that contradiction between the interests of stakeholders is limited, if not prevented.\nNot only should the technologies be created to stop hackers/identity thefts, but also to help more underprivileged parts of society. All of this while attaining high levels of business information integrity and overcoming users’ security fears were of utmost concern.\n\n"}
{"id": "16900201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16900201", "title": "Breton Party", "text": "Breton Party\n\nThe Breton Party (French: \"Parti Breton\", Breton: \"Strollad Breizh\") is a social-democratic and social-liberal nationalist party which aspires to the creation of an independent republic of Brittany, within the European Union.\n\nThe movement was created in 2002. Its objective is to give Brittany the necessary institutions for its economic, social, cultural, environmental and political development. Brittany is defined as both the modern administrative Région of \"Brittany\" and the département of Loire-Atlantique, which includes Nantes, the former capital of the Duchy of Brittany. Its aspirations include regional autonomy comparable to other European regions as Flanders or Catalonia, or full independence, as with Ireland.\n\nThe main idea is that Brittany has always been a nation, therefore has rights and liberties within the European Union. The Breton Party claims the creation of a Breton State, member of the European Union, officially recognized by international authorities. It argues that beyond the principle that a nation should have independent rights, Brittany also has everything to gain by such a process of emancipation, on economic, cultural or environmental fronts.\n\nThe slogan of the Breton Party is \"emancipated and reunited Brittany\". Analyzing the causes for the \"stagnation of the Breton political movements\", the party wants \"to take the Bretons as they are and not as one would like them to be\". In terms of the left-right axis, the Breton Party is considered to be centrist. The main objective is first of all to create Breton political \"institutions\". Claiming 400 members, most of whom have had no association with the earlier Breton movement, the Breton Party has members from the center-left, such as the professor and the contractor Jean-Paul Moisan from Nantes, or the center-right, such as Gérard Olliéric, the current president of the party.\n\n\"Ar Vretoned Yaouank\" is the youth section of the party created in 2007. Its purpose is to lead activities specific to youth connected to the party, but in an informal way. In 2006 the Young Bretons participated in the International Youth Days organized by the Basque National Party in Bilbao and were received by the Lehendakari, leader of the Basque government.\n\nThe Breton Party has contested several elections: two by-elections in 2004, and again in 2005. Its candidates obtained for their first outing between 1.5% and 4% of the vote.\n\nIn the general election of 2007, 4 candidates were put forward:\n\n\nIn a local by-election in Redon on September 23, 2007, Émile Granville obtained 3.58%. In a 2009 by-election in the same canton, he won 4.08%.\n\nIn 2008, Yann Jestin, president of Askol, obtained 25.18% of the votes during the cantonal elections in Lesneven.\n\nDuring the municipal elections in March 2008, the Breton Party ran about twenty candidates and obtained about ten municipal elected representatives among whom were a mayor and three deputies.\n\nIn the 2009 European elections, the party ran one list in the West constituency, which won 2.45% across the five Breton departments. Its highest result was 3.41% in the Finistère. It won up to 16% in a commune in the Côtes-d'Armor department.\n\nIn the French regional elections, 2010 the Breton Party fielded candidates in Brittany and the Pays de Loire regions, viz;\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55996822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55996822", "title": "COBRA (radar)", "text": "COBRA (radar)\n\nCOBRA COunter Battery RAdar is a Counter-battery radar system developed jointly by Thales, Airbus Defence and Space and Lockheed Martin for the German Armed Forces. It is a mobile Active electronically scanned array 3D radar based on a wheeled chassis for the purpose of enemy field artillery acquisition.\n\nThere are believed to be about 20,000 Gallium arsenide integrated circuits in each antenna. This enables the equipment to produce the locations of multiple enemy artillery at extremely long ranges, and the radar is able to cope with saturation type bombardments. In addition there is a high degree of automated software, with high speed circuitry and secure data transmission to escape detection from enemy electronic countermeasures. \n\n"}
{"id": "336179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=336179", "title": "Charter", "text": "Charter\n\nA charter is the grant of authority or rights, stating that the granter formally recognizes the prerogative of the recipient to exercise the rights specified. It is implicit that the granter retains superiority (or sovereignty), and that the recipient admits a limited (or inferior) status within the relationship, and it is within that sense that charters were historically granted, and that sense is retained in modern usage of the term.\n\nThe word entered the English language from the Old French \"charte\", via Latin \"charta\", and ultimately from Greek χάρτης (\"khartes\", meaning \"layer of papyrus\"). It has come to be synonymous with a document that sets out a grant of rights or privileges.\n\nThe term is used for a special case (or as an exception) to an institutional charter. A charter school, for example, is one that has different rules, regulations, and statutes from a state school.\n\nCharter is sometimes used as a synonym for \"tool\" or \"lease\", as in the \"charter\" of a bus or boat or plane by an organization, intended for a similar group destination.\n\nA charter member of an organization is an original member; that is, one who became a member when the organization received its charter.\n\nAnglo-Saxon charters are documents from the early medieval period in Britain which typically make a grant of land or record a privilege. They are usually written on parchment, in Latin but often with sections in the vernacular, describing the bounds of estates, which often correspond closely to modern parish boundaries. The earliest surviving charters were drawn up in the 670s; the oldest surviving charters granted land to the Church, but from the 8th century surviving charters were increasingly used to grant land to lay people.\n\nThe British Empire used three main types of colonies as it sought to expand its territory to distant parts of the earth. These three types were royal colonies, proprietary colonies, and corporate colonies. A charter colony by definition is a \"colony chartered to an individual, trading company, etc., by the British crown.\" Although charter colonies were not the most prevalent of the three types of colonies in the British Empire, they were by no means insignificant.\n\nA congressional charter is a law passed by the United States Congress that states the mission, authority, and activities of a group. Congress issued federal charters from 1791 until 1992 under Title 36 of the United States Code.\n\nA municipal corporation is the legal term for a local governing body, including (but not necessarily limited to) cities, counties, towns, townships, charter townships, villages, and boroughs. Municipal incorporation occurs when such municipalities become self-governing entities under the laws of the state or province in which they are located. Often, this event is marked by the award or declaration of a municipal charter.\n\nCharters for chivalric orders and other orders, such as the Sovereign Military Order of Malta.\n\nIn project management, a project charter or project definition (sometimes called the terms of reference) is a statement of the scope, objectives and participants in a project. It provides a preliminary delineation of roles and responsibilities, outlines the project objectives, identifies the main stakeholders, and defines the authority of the project manager. It serves as a reference of authority for the future of the project.\n\nIn medieval Europe, royal charters were used to create cities (i.e., localities with recognised legal rights and privileges). The date that such a charter was granted is considered to be when a city was \"founded\", regardless of when the locality originally began to be settled.\n\nAt one time a royal charter was the only way in which an incorporated body could be formed, but other means (such as the registration process for limited companies) are generally now used instead.\n\nA charter of \"Inspeximus\" (Latin, literally \"We have inspected\") is frequently a royal charter, by which an earlier charter or series of charters relating to a particular foundation (such as a monastery or a guild) was recited and incorporated into a new charter, usually in order to confirm and renew its validity under present authority. Where the original documents are lost, an inspeximus charter may sometimes preserve their texts and lists of witnesses.\n\n"}
{"id": "50090841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50090841", "title": "Climate Change Denial Disorder", "text": "Climate Change Denial Disorder\n\nClimate Change Denial Disorder (CCDD) is a satirical short film which parodies climate change denial and perspectives on climate change through discussion of a fictional disease. The film stars actors Ed Begley Jr., Timothy Brennan, and Susan Yeagley. It was directed by Carly Usdin, written by Nicol Paone, and produced by Brianne Trosie. The film was released on April 14, 2015, by comedy video website and film/TV production company Funny or Die and on April 16 to YouTube.\n\n\"Climate Change Denial Disorder\" was recognized by the Environmental Media Association with a nomination in the 2015 Environmental Media Awards for Best Digital Short. Environmental news website \"EcoWatch\" highlighted the film among the highest viewed environmental videos of 2015.\n\nPrior to appearing in the film as a politician oblivious to climate change, actor Ed Begley Jr. was an outspoken advocate of environmentalism for many years. He had his house outfitted with solar power in accordance with the standards of Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED).\n\nThe film was first released on the website Funny or Die on April 14, 2015. Funny or Die published the video on YouTube on April 16, 2015.\n\nThe plot takes the form of a spoof public service announcement, with the narrator explaining that the disorder attacks the brain, leaving the victim unable to comprehend words related to climate change included \"factual\" and \"melting\". Characters included in the film are a male politician and another man and a woman, who each present views removed from reality with regards to the environment changing around them. The narrator concludes the film by exhorting the viewer to assist politicians that are suffering from the fictional disease.\n\n\"Climate Change Denial Disorder\" is structured in the form of a spoof public service announcement. The narrator begins the film by introducing the fictional disease with a question for the viewer: \"Does your parent, grandparent or political representative suffer from Climate Change Denial Disorder? CCDD is a rapidly spreading disease that, world health officials say, if left untreated, could destroy the entire planet.\"\n\nEd Begley Jr. portrays a politician unaware of the environmental changes occurring around him. He is shown attempting to paddle a canoe through a paved parking lot. The politician smiles while gazing directly at the viewer and says: \"I’m gonna wait til more horrible shit happens to our planet — and I'm a senator, so fortunately, I get to make those decisions for all of us.\"\n\nThe narrator explains the mechanism of the disorder while an illustrated video of the brain is displayed: \"Climate Change Denial Disorder is a rapidly spreading disease that attacks the neurons, making it impossible to comprehend basic words.\" Words eventually removed from comprehension by those suffering from the disorder are said to include: \"factual\", \"science\", and \"melting\".\n\nAnother man says to the camera that he feels global warming is \"a bunch of New Age hooey garbage\". He goes on to exclaim: \"It's snowing right now, who cares if I'm in Southern California!\" He explains his thinking behind ignoring scientists, stating: \"I'm not a scientist. Who listens to those nerds anyway?\"\n\nA woman faces the camera and states her disbelief that Earth's polar ice caps are melting. She gives her rationale for what is occurring: \"I believe the polar bears are just getting fatter and weighing them down. Ever think of that, hippies?\"\n\nThe narrator concludes the film by stating: \"56 percent of Republicans in Congress have been severely infected with CCDD and need your help immediately.\"\n\n\"Climate Change Denial Disorder\" was recognized by the Environmental Media Association with a nomination in the 2015 Environmental Media Awards for Best Digital Short. Brianne Trosie was credited with the nomination, as producer of the film. Other nominees in the category included films \"The Soil Story\" and \"Dear Future Generations: Sorry\". \"Dear Future Generations: Sorry\" by Prince Ea went on to win in the Best Digital Short category that year at the Environmental Media Awards held October 24, 2015 at Warner Bros. Studios in Burbank, California.\n\nEnvironmental news website \"EcoWatch\" highlighted the film in December 2015 among its list of \"10 Most Watched Eco Videos of the Year\".\n\nThe film had a positive reception from media publications, with \"The Guardian\" describing it a \"poignant video\" and \"Salon\" calling it \"spot-on\". Biologist Mary Ellen Harte of \"The Huffington Post\" characterized the film as \"absolutely hilarious\", and \"BuzzFeed\" concluded: \"Funny Or Die nailed this satirical video about climate change deniers.\"\n\nWriting for \"The Guardian\", Travis Irvine highlighted the film among valuable comedy contributions to the discussion of climate change, and called it a \"poignant video\". Lindsay Abrams of \"Salon\" wrote: \"What I like so much about Funny or Die's parody PSA about \"Climate Change Denial Disorder\" is that, aside from medicalizing what in actuality is just willful ignorance, it’s pretty spot-on.\" Abrams lamented that the Senator's pronouncement in the film against any action on climate change was: \"all the more difficult to hear knowing that the vast majority of all Americans — including half of Republicans — support government action on climate change.\"\n\n\"The Huffington Post\" reporter Ron Dicker wrote of the uncomfortable comedic message in the film: \"it seems those who suffer from CCDD are pretty insufferable. Go ahead and laugh — but not too much.\" \"The Huffington Post\" journalists Liat Kornowski and Kate Bratskeir highlighted the film in their segment on the best comedic pieces from the prior week, commenting: \"Global warming is apparently melting our brains.\" Biologist Mary Ellen Harte of \"The Huffington Post\" shared her take on several satirical pieces related to climate change, and called the film \"absolutely hilarious\".\n\nAli Velez of \"BuzzFeed\" wrote positively of the film: \"Funny Or Die nailed this satirical video about climate change deniers.\" Velez said of the mock criticism of scientists by individuals in the film: \"Drought? Melting ice caps? Bah! What do scientists know anyway? Spoiler alert: scientists know a lot.\" \"Daily Kos\" writer Jen Hayden said: \"The hilarious folks at Funny or Die have a new video for those who may be suffering from Climate Change Denial Disorder. They nailed it!\" \"Daily Kos\" highlighted the film again in its end of the week \"Spotlight on Green News & Views\".\n\nEnvironmental news website \"EcoWatch\" contributor Cole Mellino called it a \"hilarious video\" and stressed: \"Far too many of our elected officials appear to be suffering from CCDD. At least now that we’ve diagnosed the problem, we can work on treating it.\" Participant Media's digital news and lifestyle magazine \"TakePart\" journalist Jennifer Swann called the film \"goofy and satirical\", while also pointing out it was a timely commentary on climate change in the face of pressure by coal companies against the Environmental Protection Agency.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31838115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31838115", "title": "Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Human Rights and Petitions", "text": "Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Human Rights and Petitions\n\nThe Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Human Rights and Petitions is a committee of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic concerned with matters of education, science, culture, human rights and petitions. It consists of nine members. The current chair of the committee is Jaromír Jermář. The vice chairs are Hana Doupovcová, Marcel Chládek, Karel Kapoun, and Jiří Oberfalzer. Its remaining members are Petr Bratský‚ Václav Homolka‚ Miloš Janeček, and Richard Svoboda.\n\nThere are two subcommittees: The Subcommittee on Pre-school, Elementary and Secondary Education of the Committee on Education, Science,Culture, Human Rights and Petitions, and the Subcommittee on Sport of the Committee on Education, Science,Culture, Human Rights and Petitions.\n\nIn 2008, the committee hosted the international conference European Conscience and Communism.\n\n"}
{"id": "32872185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32872185", "title": "Common Ground (Seattle)", "text": "Common Ground (Seattle)\n\nCommon Ground is a nonprofit affordable housing developer in Seattle, Washington. Its primary goal is creating and preserving high-quality permanent and transitional housing for the homeless; it now also includes nonprofit facilities other than housing, such as community centers and medical buildings. The core of the organization are housing development specialists, who work together with existing nonprofit social service agencies, government agencies and housing authorities.\n\nIn 1980, county planner Steve Clagett and other housing activists founded Common Ground in response to a growing housing crisis in the downtown core. The organization began helping local social service agencies and churches preserve and transform historic buildings into affordable housing, and identified sites and secured funding for new affordable housing units. The group helped preserve many downtown Seattle landmarks, including the Olive Tower, the St. Regis Hotel and the Josephinum. \n\nThe organization does not own or manage these facilities. Instead, like market-rate real estate developers, it puts together land deals, arranges financing and supervises construction for social service agencies and housing authorities. Clients include the Metro YMCA, Pioneer Human Services, Solid Ground and Downtown Emergency Service Center.\n\nIn the late 80s, they started to work with churches to provide housing for individuals with mental illness, establishing partnerships between mental health agencies and area churches. The churches rented houses to be used as group homes and the agency staff provided services and oversight. The experience led the organization into a new area of focus: special-needs housing.\n\nToday, Common Ground has expanded throughout the state of Washington, working with more than 300 community-based organizations to develop more than 6,200 units of housing for people with low-income or special needs.\n\nAs of August 2011 Common Ground has developed 5 buildings with 117 units.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2282649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2282649", "title": "Country of My Skull", "text": "Country of My Skull\n\nCountry of My Skull is a 1998 nonfiction book by Antjie Krog primarily about the findings of the South African Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC). The book is, in reality, an intersectional, interdisciplinary analysis of the Commission's potential and realized effects on post-Apartheid South Africa. \n\nThe book can be understood as having three main elements: First, it is a collection of accounts from the TRC hearings - direct testimony of the terrible human rights violations on all sides of the struggle against Apartheid. Second, it is an exploration and analysis of political and moral philosophy relevant to, inspired by, and grounded in the TRC (see President Nelson Mandela and Archbishop Desmond Tutu). Third, it is biographical, in terms of the author being extremely honest, open, and self-analytical about her own position and experience relative to the TRC - racially as a white Afrikaner, professionally as a radio journalist, emotionally as someone grappling with her nation's bloody past, and personally as her experiences covering the TRC affect her intimate life.\n\n\"Country of My Skull\" is written as an amalgamation of journalism, prose, personal narrative, and poetry - all of which Krog has been celebrated for - with the goal of capturing the overwhelming moral, emotional, and historical complexity of the Truth and Reconciliation process in South Africa.\n\nIn 2004, the book was adapted into the film \"In My Country\" by director John Boorman starring Samuel L. Jackson and Juliette Binoche.\n\n"}
{"id": "10928847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10928847", "title": "Creation Science Movement", "text": "Creation Science Movement\n\nThe Creation Science Movement (CSM, founded in 1932 as the Evolution Protest Movement) is a British Creationist organisation which lays claim to the title \"the oldest creationist movement in the world\". It was a member of the Evangelical Alliance until its resignation in 2008, and is a registered charity.\n\nThe Evolution Protest Movement (EPM) had its roots in the Victoria Institute (or Philosophical Society of Great Britain) whose stated objective was to defend \"the great truths revealed in Holy Scripture ... against the opposition of Science falsely so called.\" Although the Victoria Institute was not officially opposed to evolution, it attracted a number of scientists sceptical of Darwinism. It had its heyday in the late 19th century, but by the 1910s had shrunk considerably, and considerable apathy had set in. Prominent Canadian creationist (and long-standing institute member) George McCready Price, attended meetings regularly while living in London between 1924 and 1928, but his views failed to persuade the membership. Before returning to North America, Price noted that British creationists were \"scattered and divided into a number of small, weak, and insignificant groups or societies\", and called for them to unify.\n\nIn 1932 decorated submariner turned free-lance journalist Bernard Acworth proposed the formation of an anti-evolution society that would confine itself \"as far as that might be possible, to the scientific rather than to the philosophic and religious plane\". The proposal was seconded by barrister and amateur ornithologist Douglas Dewar, and the Evolution Protest Movement was formed at a meeting between them and five like-minded conservative evangelicals with electrical engineer, physicist and Victoria Institute president John Ambrose Fleming as president, Acworth as chairman and Dewar as secretary-treasurer.\n\nThe EPM existed as only a paper organisation until it was publicly launched in February 1935, at a meeting attended by over six hundred. In its early years, Dewar was the main driving force within the EPM, publishing a booklet entitled \"Man: A Special Creation\" and engaging in public speaking and debates with supporters of evolution. In the late 1930s he resisted the American creationists call for acceptance of flood geology. Dewars association with the EPM was to span a quarter century, and saw it grow to about two hundred members, with small branches in Australia and New Zealand. However it failed to win the public endorsement of C.S. Lewis, the most prominent Christian apologist of his day (and a personal friend of Acworth's), though he privately admitted to finding their arguments increasingly compelling.\n\nIn the mid 1950s the EPM came under control of schoolmaster/pastor Albert G. Tilney, whose dogmatic and authoritarian style ran the organisation \"as a one-man band\", unwaveringly promoting Gap creationism and reducing the membership to lethargic inactivity. Entomologist William R. Thompson described it as \"largely ignored or ridiculed by both the scientific and ecclesiastical establishments\", and several prominent Creationists declined to serve as officers.\n\nIn the 1970s, the recent publication of an English edition of \"The Genesis Flood\", the EPM's rejection of flood geology, and Tilney's idiosyncratic scriptural interpretations, led to the formation of rival creationist groups such as the Newton Scientific Association and the Biblical Creation Society. During this time the EPM came to grudging acceptance of flood geology, and a number of young Earth creationists (YEC) joined its council and moved the balance away from Tilney and his allies. It was renamed the Creation Science Movement in 1980. By the mid 1980s it had become overwhelmingly YEC, formally incorporated flood geology into their 'Deed of Trust' (which all officers were required to sign) and condemned Gap and Day-Age Creationism as unscriptural. By the early 1990s it had closed down its foreign branches, but had increased its membership considerably.\n\nThe current chairman of the CSM is David Rosevear, who has a Ph.D. in organometallic chemistry from the University of Bristol, United Kingdom and was a senior lecturer in chemistry at Portsmouth University. He is a Young Earth creationist, who when interviewed by the British Broadcasting Corporation has claimed that members of the public are brainwashed by the media into believing in evolution.\n\nThe CSM's Genesis Exhibition is sited in the old National Provincial Bank on Portsmouth Harbour. It \"consists of 12 dioramas and a clutch of real fossilised dinosaur eggs.\" The dioramas include a mockup of a gravestone with \"Here lies the Theory of Evolution\" carved on it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45311", "title": "Cultural Revolution", "text": "Cultural Revolution\n\nThe Cultural Revolution, formally the Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution, was a sociopolitical movement in China from 1966 until 1976. Launched by Mao Zedong, then Chairman of the Communist Party of China, its stated goal was to preserve 'true' Communist ideology in the country by purging remnants of capitalist and traditional elements from Chinese society, and to re-impose Mao Zedong Thought as the dominant ideology within the Party. The Revolution marked Mao's return to a position of power after the failures of his Great Leap Forward. The movement paralyzed China politically and negatively affected both the economy and society of the country to a significant degree.\n\nThe movement was launched in May 1966, after Mao alleged that bourgeois elements had infiltrated the government and society at large, aiming to restore capitalism. To eliminate his rivals within the Communist Party of China, Mao insisted that these \"revisionists\" be removed through violent class struggle. China's youth responded to Mao's appeal by forming Red Guard groups around the country. The movement spread into the military, urban workers, and the Communist Party leadership itself. It resulted in widespread factional struggles in all walks of life. In the top leadership, it led to a mass purge of senior officials, most notably Liu Shaoqi and Deng Xiaoping. During the same period, Mao's personality cult grew to immense proportions.\n\nIn the violent struggles that ensued across the country, millions of people were persecuted and suffered a wide range of abuses including public humiliation, arbitrary imprisonment, torture, hard labor, sustained harassment, seizure of property and sometimes execution. A large segment of the population was forcibly displaced, most notably the transfer of urban youth to rural regions during the Down to the Countryside Movement. Historical relics and artifacts were destroyed and cultural and religious sites were ransacked.\n\nMao officially declared the Cultural Revolution to have ended in 1969, but its active phase lasted until the death of military leader and proposed Mao successor Lin Biao in 1971. After Mao's death and the arrest of the Gang of Four in 1976, reformers led by Deng Xiaoping gradually began to dismantle the Maoist policies associated with the Cultural Revolution. In 1981, the Party declared that the Cultural Revolution was \"responsible for the most severe setback and the heaviest losses suffered by the Party, the country, and the people since the founding of the People's Republic\".\n\nIn 1958, after China's first Five-Year Plan, Mao called for \"grassroots socialism\" in order to accelerate his plans for turning China into a modern industrialized state. In this spirit, Mao launched the Great Leap Forward, established People's Communes in the countryside, and began the mass mobilization of the people into collectives. Many communities were assigned production of a single commodity—steel. Mao vowed to increase agricultural production to twice 1957 levels.\n\nThe Great Leap was an economic failure. Uneducated farmers attempted to produce steel on a massive scale, partially relying on backyard furnaces to achieve the production targets set by local cadres. The steel produced was low quality and largely useless. The Great Leap reduced harvest sizes and led to a decline in the production of most goods except substandard pig iron and steel. Furthermore, local authorities frequently exaggerated production numbers, hiding and intensifying the problem for several years. In the meantime, chaos in the collectives, bad weather, and exports of food necessary to secure hard currency resulted in the Great Chinese Famine. Food was in desperate shortage, and production fell dramatically. The famine caused the deaths of millions of people, particularly in poorer inland regions.\n\nThe Great Leap's failure reduced Mao's prestige within the Party. Forced to take major responsibility, in 1959, Mao resigned as the President of the People's Republic of China, China's \"de jure\" head of state, and was succeeded by Liu Shaoqi. In July, senior Party leaders convened at the scenic Mount Lu to discuss policy. At the conference, Marshal Peng Dehuai, the Minister of Defence, criticized Great Leap policies in a private letter to Mao, writing that it was plagued by mismanagement and cautioning against elevating political dogma over the laws of economics.\n\nDespite the moderate tone of Peng's letter, Mao took it as a personal attack against his leadership. Following the Conference, Mao had Peng removed from his posts, and accused him of being a \"right-opportunist\". Peng was replaced by Lin Biao, another revolutionary army general who became a more staunch Mao supporter later in his career. While the Lushan Conference served as a death knell for Peng, Mao's most vocal critic, it led to a shift of power to moderates led by Liu Shaoqi and Deng Xiaoping, who took effective control of the economy following 1959.\n\nBy the early 1960s, many of the Great Leap's economic policies were reversed by initiatives spearheaded by Liu, Deng, and Zhou Enlai. This moderate group of pragmatists were unenthusiastic about Mao's utopian visions. Owing to his loss of esteem within the party, Mao developed a decadent and eccentric lifestyle. By 1962, while Zhou, Liu and Deng managed affairs of state and the economy, Mao had effectively withdrawn from economic decision-making, and focused much of his time on further contemplating his contributions to Marxist–Leninist social theory, including the idea of \"continuous revolution\". This theory's ultimate aim was to set the stage for Mao to restore his brand of Communism and his personal prestige within the Party.\n\nIn the early 1950s, the People's Republic of China and the Soviet Union were the two largest Communist states in the world. Although initially they had been mutually supportive, disagreements arose after the death of Joseph Stalin and the rise of Nikita Khrushchev to power in the Soviet Union. In 1956, Khrushchev denounced Stalin and his policies and began implementing post-Stalinist economic reforms. Mao and many members of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) opposed these changes, believing that they would have negative repercussions for the worldwide Marxist movement, among whom Stalin was still viewed as a hero.\n\nMao believed that Khrushchev did not adhere to Marxism–Leninism, but was instead a revisionist, altering his policies from basic Marxist–Leninist concepts, something Mao feared would allow capitalists to regain control of the country. Relations between the two governments soured. The USSR refused to support China's case for joining the United Nations and went back on its pledge to supply China with a nuclear weapon.\n\nMao went on to publicly denounce revisionism in April 1960. Without pointing fingers at the Soviet Union, Mao criticized its ideological ally, the League of Communists of Yugoslavia. In turn, the USSR criticized China's ally the Party of Labour of Albania. In 1963, the CCP began to openly denounce the Soviet Union, publishing nine polemics against its perceived revisionism, with one of them being titled \"On Khrushchev's Phoney Communism and Historical Lessons for the World\", in which Mao charged that Khrushchev was not only a revisionist but also increased the danger of capitalist restoration. Khrushchev's downfall from an internal \"coup d'état\" in 1964 also contributed to Mao's fears of his own political vulnerability, particularly because of his declining prestige among his colleagues after the Great Leap Forward.\n\nMao set the scene for the Cultural Revolution by \"cleansing\" powerful officials of questionable loyalty who were based in Beijing. His approach was less than transparent, achieving this purge through newspaper articles, internal meetings, and skillfully employing his network of political allies.\n\nIn late 1959, historian and Beijing Deputy Mayor Wu Han published a historical drama entitled \"Hai Rui Dismissed from Office\". In the play, an honest civil servant, Hai Rui, is dismissed by a corrupt emperor. While Mao initially praised the play, in February 1965 he secretly commissioned his wife Jiang Qing and Shanghai propagandist Yao Wenyuan to publish an article criticizing it. Yao boldly alleged that \"Hai Rui\" was really an allegory attacking Mao; that is, Mao was the corrupt emperor and Peng Dehuai was the honest civil servant.\n\nYao's article put Beijing Mayor Peng Zhen on the defensive. Peng, a powerful official and Wu Han's direct superior, was the head of the \"Five Man Group\", a committee commissioned by Mao to study the potential for a cultural revolution. Peng Zhen, aware that he would be implicated if Wu indeed wrote an \"anti-Mao\" play, wished to contain Yao's influence. Yao's article was initially only published in select local newspapers. Peng forbade its publication in the nationally distributed \"People's Daily\" and other major newspapers under his control, instructing them to write exclusively about \"academic discussion\", and not pay heed to Yao's petty politics.\n\nWhile the \"literary battle\" against Peng raged, Mao fired Yang Shangkun—director of the Party's General Office, an organ that controlled internal communications—on a series of unsubstantiated charges, installing in his stead staunch loyalist Wang Dongxing, head of Mao's security detail. Yang's dismissal likely emboldened Mao's allies to move against their factional rivals. In December, Defence Minister and Mao loyalist Lin Biao accused General Luo Ruiqing, the chief of staff of the People's Liberation Army (PLA), of being anti-Mao, alleging that Luo put too much emphasis on military training rather than Maoist \"political discussion\". Despite initial skepticism in the Politburo of Luo's guilt, Mao pushed for an 'investigation', after which Luo was denounced, dismissed, and forced to deliver a self-criticism. Stress from the events led Luo to attempt suicide. Luo's removal secured the military command's loyalty to Mao.\n\nHaving ousted Luo and Yang, Mao returned his attention to Peng Zhen. On February 12, 1966, the \"Five Man Group\" issued a report known as the \"February Outline\" (). The \"Outline\", sanctioned by the Party centre, defined \"Hai Rui\" as constructive \"academic\" discussion, and aimed to formally distance Peng Zhen from any \"political\" implications. However, Jiang Qing and Yao Wenyuan continued their denunciation of Wu Han and Peng Zhen. Meanwhile, Mao also sacked Propaganda Department director Lu Dingyi, a Peng Zhen ally.\n\nLu's removal gave Maoists unrestricted access to the press. Mao would deliver his final blow to Peng Zhen at a high-profile Politburo meeting through loyalists Kang Sheng and Chen Boda. They accused Peng Zhen of opposing Mao, labeled the \"February Outline\" \"evidence of Peng Zhen's revisionism\", and grouped him with three other disgraced officials as part of the \"Peng-Luo-Lu-Yang Anti-Party Clique\". On May 16, the Politburo formalized the decisions by releasing an official document condemning Peng Zhen and his \"anti-party allies\" in the strongest terms, disbanding his \"Five Man Group\", and replacing it with the Maoist Cultural Revolution Group (CRG).\n\nIn May 1966, an \"expanded session\" of the Politburo was called in Beijing. The conference, rather than being a joint discussion on policy (as per the usual norms of party operations), was essentially a campaign to mobilize the Politburo into endorsing Mao's political agenda. The conference was heavily laden with Maoist political rhetoric on class struggle, and filled with meticulously-prepared 'indictments' on the recently ousted leaders such as Peng Zhen and Luo Ruiqing. One of these documents, released on May 16, was prepared with Mao's personal supervision, and was particularly damning:\n\nThose representatives of the bourgeoisie who have sneaked into the Party, the government, the army, and various spheres of culture are a bunch of counter-revolutionary revisionists. Once conditions are ripe, they will seize political power and turn the dictatorship of the proletariat into a dictatorship of the bourgeoisie. Some of them we have already seen through; others we have not. Some are still trusted by us and are being trained as our successors, persons like Khruschev for example, who are still nestling beside us.\n\nThis text, which became known as the \"May 16 Notification\" (), summarized Mao's ideological justification for the Cultural Revolution. Effectively it implied that there are enemies of the Communist cause within the Party itself: class enemies who \"wave the red flag to oppose the red flag.\" The only way to identify these people was through \"the telescope and microscope of Mao Zedong Thought.\" While the party leadership was relatively united in approving the general direction of Mao's agenda, many Politburo members were not especially enthusiastic, or simply confused about the direction of the movement. The charges against esteemed party leaders like Peng Zhen rang alarm bells in China's intellectual community and among the eight non-Communist parties.\n\nAfter the purge of Peng Zhen, the Beijing Party Committee had effectively ceased to function, paving the way for disorder in the capital. On May 25, under the guidance of Cao Yi'ou—wife of Maoist henchman Kang Sheng—Nie Yuanzi, a philosophy lecturer at Peking University, authored a big-character poster (\"dazibao\") along with other leftists and posted it to a public bulletin. Nie attacked the university's party administration and its leader Lu Ping. Nie insinuated that the university leadership, much like Peng Zhen, were trying to contain revolutionary fervour in a \"sinister\" attempt to oppose the party and advance revisionism.\n\nMao promptly endorsed Nie's \"dazibao\" as \"the first Marxist big-character poster in China.\" Nie's call-to-arms, now sealed with Mao's personal stamp of approval, had a lasting ripple effect across all educational institutions in China. Students everywhere began to revolt against their respective schools' party establishment. Classes were promptly cancelled in Beijing primary and secondary schools, followed by a decision on June 13 to expand the class suspension nationwide. By early June, throngs of young demonstrators lined the capital's major thoroughfares holding giant portraits of Mao, beating drums, and shouting slogans against his perceived enemies.\n\nWhen the dismissal of Peng Zhen and the municipal party leadership became public in early June, widespread confusion ensued. The public and foreign missions were kept in the dark on the reason for Peng Zhen's ousting. Even the top Party leadership was caught off guard by the sudden anti-establishment wave of protest, and struggled with what to do next. After seeking Mao's guidance in Hangzhou, Liu Shaoqi and Deng Xiaoping decided to send in \"work teams\" (工作组)—effectively 'ideological-guidance' squads of cadres—to the city's schools and \"People's Daily\" to restore some semblance of order and re-establish party control.\n\nThe work teams were hastily dispatched and had a poor understanding of student sentiment. Unlike the political movement of the 1950s that squarely targeted intellectuals, the new movement was focused on established party cadres, many of whom were part of the work teams. As a result, the work teams came under increasing suspicion for being yet another group aimed at thwarting revolutionary fervour. The party leadership subsequently became divided over whether or not work teams should remain in place. Liu Shaoqi insisted on continuing work-team involvement and suppressing the movement's most radical elements, fearing that the movement would spin out of control.\n\nOn July 16, the 72-year-old Chairman Mao took to the Yangtze River in Wuhan, with the press in tow, in what became an iconic \"swim across the Yangtze\" to demonstrate his battle-readiness. He subsequently returned to Beijing on a mission to criticize the party leadership for its handling of the work-teams issue. Mao accused the work teams of undermining the student movement, calling for their full withdrawal on July 24. Several days later a rally was held at the Great Hall of the People to announce the decision and set the new tone of the movement to university and high school teachers and students. At the rally, Party leaders told the masses assembled to 'not be afraid' and bravely take charge of the movement themselves, free of Party interference.\n\nThe work-teams issue marked a decisive defeat for President Liu Shaoqi politically; it also signaled that disagreement over how to handle the unfolding events of the Cultural Revolution would break Mao from the established party leadership irreversibly. On August 1, the Eleventh Plenum of the Eighth Central Committee was hastily convened to advance Mao's now decidedly radical agenda. At the plenum, Mao showed outright disdain for Liu, repeatedly interrupting Liu as he delivered his opening day speech. For several days, Mao repeatedly insinuated that the Party's leadership had contravened his revolutionary vision. Mao's line of thinking received a lukewarm reception from the conference attendees. Sensing that the largely obstructive party elite was unwilling to fully embrace his revolutionary ideology, Mao went on the offensive.\n\nOn July 28, Red Guard representatives wrote to Mao, calling for rebellion and upheaval to safeguard the revolution. Mao then responded to the letters by writing his own big-character poster entitled \"Bombard the Headquarters\", rallying people to target the \"command centre (i.e., Headquarters) of counterrevolution\". Mao wrote that despite having undergone a Communist revolution, a \"bourgeois\" elite was still thriving in \"positions of authority\" in the government and Communist Party.\n\nAlthough no names were mentioned, this provocative statement by Mao has been interpreted as a direct indictment of the party establishment under Liu Shaoqi and Deng Xiaoping—the purported \"bourgeois headquarters\" of China. The personnel changes at the Plenum reflected a radical re-design of the party's hierarchy to suit this new ideological landscape. Liu and Deng kept their seats on the Politburo Standing Committee but were in fact sidelined from day-to-day party affairs. Lin Biao was elevated to become the Party's number-two figure; Liu Shaoqi's rank went from second to eighth, and was no longer Mao's heir apparent.\n\nCoinciding with the top leadership being thrown out of positions of power was the thorough undoing of the entire national bureaucracy of the Communist Party. The extensive Organization Department, in charge of party personnel, essentially ceased to exist. The Cultural Revolution Group (CRG), Mao's ideological 'Praetorian Guard', was catapulted to prominence to propagate his ideology and rally popular support. The top officials in the Propaganda Department were sacked, with many of its functions folding into the CRG.\n\nOn August 8, 1966, the party's Central Committee passed its \"Decision Concerning the Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution\", later to be known as the \"Sixteen Points\". This decision defined the Cultural Revolution as \"a great revolution that touches people to their very souls and constitutes a deeper and more extensive stage in the development of the socialist revolution in our country.\":\n\nAlthough the bourgeoisie has been overthrown, it is still trying to use the old ideas, culture, customs, and habits of the exploiting classes to corrupt the masses, capture their minds, and stage a comeback. The proletariat must do just the opposite: It must meet head-on every challenge of the bourgeoisie [...] to change the outlook of society. Currently, our objective is to struggle against and crush those people in authority who are taking the capitalist road, to criticize and repudiate the reactionary bourgeois academic \"authorities\" and the ideology of the bourgeoisie and all other exploiting classes and to transform education, literature and art, and all other parts of the superstructure that do not correspond to the socialist economic base, so as to facilitate the consolidation and development of the socialist system.\n\nThe implications of the Sixteen Points were far-reaching. It elevated what was previously a student movement to a nationwide mass campaign that would galvanize workers, farmers, soldiers and lower-level party functionaries to rise up, challenge authority, and re-shape the \"superstructure\" of society. On August 18, 1966, over a million Red Guards from all over the country gathered in and around Tiananmen Square in Beijing for a personal audience with the Chairman. Lin Biao took centre stage at the August 18 rally, vociferously denouncing all manner of perceived enemies in Chinese society that were impeding the \"progress of the revolution.\"\n\nMao personally mingled with Red Guards and threw his weight behind their cause, donning a Red Guard armband himself. Between August and November 1966, eight mass rallies were held in which over 12 million people from all over the country, most of whom were Red Guards, participated. The government bore the expenses of Red Guards travelling around the country exchanging \"revolutionary experiences.\"\n\nAt the Red Guard rallies, Lin Biao also called for the destruction of the \"Four Olds\"; namely, old customs, culture, habits, and ideas. Lin's speeches did not specify what needed to be \"destroyed\" as part of this campaign; Mao believed that in creating \"great disorder\", the masses should organically steer the direction of the movement rather than rely on the authorities to tell them what to do.\n\nSome changes associated with the \"Four Olds\" campaign were largely benign, such as assigning new names to city streets, places, and even people; millions of babies were born with \"revolutionary\"-sounding names during this period. Other aspects of the Red Guard revolution were more destructive, particularly in the realms of culture and religion. Various historical sites throughout the country were destroyed. The damage was particularly pronounced in the capital, Beijing. Red Guards also laid siege to the Temple of Confucius in Qufu, Shandong province.\n\nDuring these months of transgressiveness, Red Guards from Beijing Normal University desecrated and badly damaged the burial place of Confucius himself and numerous other historically significant tombs and artifacts. The corpse of the 76th-generation Duke Yansheng was removed from its grave and hung naked from a tree in front of the palace during the desecration of the cemetery in the Cultural Revolution.\n\nLibraries full of historical and foreign texts were destroyed; books were burned. Temples, churches, mosques, monasteries, and cemeteries were closed down and sometimes converted to other uses, looted, and destroyed. Marxist propaganda depicted Buddhism as superstition, and religion was looked upon as a means of hostile foreign infiltration, as well as an instrument of the ruling class. Clergy were arrested and sent to camps; many Tibetan Buddhists were forced to participate in the destruction of their monasteries at gunpoint.\n\nFor two years the Red Guards expanded their areas of authority and accelerated their efforts at socialist reconstruction. They began by passing out leaflets explaining their actions to develop and strengthen socialism and posting the names of suspected counter-revolutionaries on bulletin boards. They assembled in large groups, held debates, and wrote educational plays. They held public meetings to criticize and solicit self-criticisms from counter-revolutionaries.\n\nOne of many quotations in the Little Red Book (\"Mao's Quotations\") that the Red Guards would later follow as a guide, provided by Mao, was \"The world is yours, as well as ours, but in the last analysis, it is yours. You young people, full of vigor and vitality, are in the bloom of life, like the sun at eight or nine in the morning. Our hope is placed on you ... The world belongs to you. China's future belongs to you.\" 350 million copies of the book had been printed by December 1967. It was the mechanism that led the Red Guards to commit to their objective as the future for China. These quotes directly from Mao led to other actions by the Red Guards in the views of other Maoist leaders.\n\nAlthough the 16 Points and other pronouncements of the central Maoist leaders forbade \"armed struggle (武斗, \"wudou\")\" in favor of \"verbal struggle\" (文斗, \"wendou\"), these struggle sessions often led to physical violence. What started as verbal struggles among activist groups became physical, especially when activists began to seize weapons from the army in 1967. The central Maoist leaders limited their intervention in activist violence to verbal criticism, but after the PLA began to intervene in 1969, authorities started to suppress the mass movement.\n\nOn August 22, 1966, a central directive was issued to stop police intervention in Red Guard activities, and those in the police force who defied this notice were labeled counter-revolutionaries. Mao's praise for rebellion encouraged actions of the Red Guards. Central officials lifted restraints on violent behavior in support of the revolution. Xie Fuzhi, the national police chief, often pardoned Red Guards for their \"crimes\".\n\nIn the course of about two weeks, the violence left some one hundred officials of the ruling and middle class dead in Beijing's western district alone. The number injured exceeded that.\n\nThe most violent aspects of the campaign included incidents of torture, murder, and public humiliation. Many people who were indicted as counter-revolutionaries died by suicide. In August and September 1966, there were 1,772 people murdered in Beijing alone. In Shanghai there were 704 suicides and 534 deaths related to the Cultural Revolution in September. In Wuhan there were 62 suicides and 32 murders during the same period. Peng Dehuai was brought to Beijing to be publicly ridiculed.\n\nIn October, Mao convened a \"Central Work Conference\", essentially to convince those in the party leadership who had not yet adopted revolutionary ideology. Liu Shaoqi and Deng Xiaoping were prosecuted as part of a bourgeois reactionary line (\"zichanjieji fandong luxian\") and begrudgingly gave self-criticisms. After the conference, Liu, once a powerful moderate pundit of the ruling class, was placed under house arrest in Beijing, then sent to a detention camp, where he was denied medical treatment and died in 1969. Deng Xiaoping was sent away for a period of re-education three times, and was eventually sent to work in a Jiangxi engine factory.\n\nOn January 3, 1967, Lin Biao and Jiang Qing employed local media and grassroots organizations to generate the \"January Storm\", during which the Shanghai municipal government was essentially overthrown. This paved the way for the young factory worker Wang Hongwen to take charge of the city as leader of the Shanghai People's Commune, later renamed the Municipal Revolutionary Committee. In Beijing, Liu Shaoqi and Deng Xiaoping were once again the targets of denunciation; others condemned Vice Premier Tao Zhu, signaling that even central government officials should not be immune from criticism.\n\nOn January 8, Mao praised these actions through the party-run \"People's Daily\", urging all local government leaders to rise in self-criticism, or the criticism of others suspected of counterrevolutionary activity. Many local governments followed Shanghai's example, with Red Guards or other revolutionary groups seizing power from the established ruling class and government organs.\n\nIn February, Jiang Qing and Lin Biao, with support from Mao, insisted that class struggle be extended to the military. Many prominent generals voiced their hostility and opposition to the Cultural Revolution. Foreign Minister Chen Yi and Vice-Premier Tan Zhenlin vocally incriminated the turn of events in Shanghai, accusing the movement of \"destroying the party\". This group of party leaders were subsequently denounced as the \"February Countercurrent\". Many of these rulers were criticized for trying to sabotage the revolution and fell into political disgrace thereafter.\n\nAt the same time, some Red Guard organizations rose in protest against other Red Guard organizations who ran dissimilar revolutionary messages, complicating the situation. In April, at Mao's behest, Jiang Qing attempted to organize Red Guard groups by issuing an order to stop all \"unhealthy activity.\" On April 6, 1967, Liu Shaoqi was openly and widely denounced by a Zhongnanhai faction whose members included Jiang Qing and Kang Sheng, and ultimately, Mao himself.\n\nThe situation was quickly spinning out of control; local revolutionary activities lacked centralized leadership. As revolutionaries dismantled ruling government and party organizations all over the country, it was no longer clear who truly believed in Mao's revolutionary vision and who was opportunistically riding the waves of chaos for their own gain. By July, factional violence had become commonplace across the country. On July 22, Jiang Qing directed the Red Guards to replace the People's Liberation Army if necessary, as local Army units continued to support traditional establishment dogma. After the initial praise by Jiang Qing, the Red Guards began to break down barracks and other army buildings. This activity, which could not be stopped by army generals, continued through to the autumn of 1968.\n\nIn the central city of Wuhan, like in many other cities, two major revolutionary organizations emerged, one supporting the establishment and the other opposed to it. The groups fought over the control of the city. Chen Zaidao, the Army general in charge of the area, forcibly repressed the anti-establishment demonstrators. However, in the midst of the commotion, Mao himself flew to Wuhan with a large entourage of central officials in an attempt to secure military loyalty in the area. In response, local agitators kidnapped Mao's emissary Wang Li in what became known as the Wuhan Incident. Subsequently, Gen. Chen Zaidao was sent to Beijing and tried by Jiang Qing and the rest of the Cultural Revolution Group.\n\nIn this same year, Chinese New Year celebrations were banned in China; they were only reinstated 13 years later.\n\nIn the spring of 1968, a massive campaign began, aimed at enhancing Mao's reputation. On July 27, 1968, the Red Guards' power over the Army was officially ended, and the establishment government sent in units to besiege areas that remained untouched by the Guards. A year later, the Red Guard factions were dismantled entirely; Mao predicted that the chaos might begin running its own agenda and be tempted to turn against revolutionary ideology. Their purpose had been largely fulfilled; Mao and his radical colleagues had largely overturned establishment power.\n\nIn early October, Mao began a campaign to purge ruling officials. Many were sent to the countryside to work in reeducation camps. Liu was expelled from the Communist Party at the 12th Plenum of the Eighth Central Committee in September 1968, and labelled the \"headquarters of the bourgeoisie\", seemingly alluding to Mao's \"Bombard the Headquarters\" \"dazibao\" written two years earlier.\n\nIn December 1968, Mao began the \"Down to the Countryside Movement\". During this movement, which lasted for the next decade, young bourgeoisie living in cities were ordered to go to the countryside to experience working life. The term \"young intellectuals\" was used to refer to recently graduated college students. In the late 1970s, these students returned to their home cities. Many students who were previously Red Guard members supported the movement and Mao's vision. This movement was thus in part a means of moving Red Guards from the cities to the countryside, where they would cause less social disruption. It also served to spread revolutionary ideology across China geographically.\n\nThe Ninth Party Congress was held in April 1969, and served as a means to \"revitalize\" the party with fresh thinking and new cadres after much of the old guard had been destroyed in the struggles of preceding years. The institutional framework of the Party established two decades earlier had broken down almost entirely: delegates for this Congress were effectively selected by Revolutionary Committees rather than through election by party members. Representation of the military increased by a large margin from the previous Congress (28% of the delegates were PLA members), and the election of more PLA members to the new Central Committee reflected this increase. Many military officers elevated to senior positions were loyal to PLA Marshal Lin Biao, opening a new factional divide between the military and civilian leadership.\nLin Biao was officially elevated to become the Party's number-two figure, with his name written into the Communist Party's Constitution as Mao's \"closest comrade-in-arms\" and \"universally recognized successor\". Lin delivered the keynote address at the Congress: a document drafted by hardliner leftists Yao Wenyuan and Zhang Chunqiao under Mao's guidance. The report was heavily critical of Liu Shaoqi and other \"counter-revolutionaries\", and drew extensively from quotations in the Little Red Book. The Congress solidified the central role of Maoism within the party psyche, re-introducing Maoism as an official guiding ideology of the party in the party constitution. Lastly, the Congress elected a new Politburo with Mao Zedong, Lin Biao, Chen Boda, Zhou Enlai, and Kang Sheng as the members of the new Politburo Standing Committee. Lin, Chen, and Kang were all beneficiaries of the Cultural Revolution. Zhou, who was demoted in rank, voiced his unequivocal support for Lin at the Congress. Mao also restored the function of some formal party institutions, such as the operations of the party's Politburo, which ceased functioning between 1966 and 1968 because the Central Cultural Revolution Group held \"de facto\" control of the country.\n\nMao's efforts at re-organizing party and state institutions generated mixed results. Many far-flung provinces remained volatile as the political situation in Beijing stabilized. Factional struggles, many of which were violent, continued at the local level despite the declaration that the Ninth Congress marked a temporary \"victory\" for the Cultural Revolution. Furthermore, despite Mao's efforts to put on a show of unity at the Congress, the factional divide between Lin Biao's PLA camp and the Jiang Qing–led radical camp was intensifying. Indeed, a personal dislike of Jiang Qing drew many civilian leaders, including prominent theoretician Chen Boda, closer to Lin Biao.\n\nBetween 1966 and 1968, China was isolated internationally, having declared its enmity towards both the Soviet Union and the United States. The friction with the Soviet Union intensified after border clashes on the Ussuri River in March 1969 as the Chinese leadership prepared for all-out war. In October, senior leaders were evacuated from Beijing. Amidst the tension, Lin Biao issued what appeared to be an executive order to prepare for war to the PLA's eleven Military Regions on October 18 without passing through Mao. This drew the ire of the Chairman, who saw it as evidence that his authority was prematurely usurped by his declared successor.\n\nThe prospect of war elevated the PLA to greater prominence in domestic politics, increasing the stature of Lin Biao at the expense of Mao. There is some evidence to suggest that Mao was pushed to seek closer relations with the United States as a means to avoid PLA dominance in domestic affairs that would result from a military confrontation with the Soviet Union. During his meeting with U.S. President Richard Nixon in 1972, Mao hinted that Lin had opposed seeking better relations with the U.S.\n\nAfter Lin was confirmed as Mao's successor, his supporters focused on the restoration of the position of State Chairman (President), which had been abolished by Mao after the purge of Liu Shaoqi. They hoped that by allowing Lin to ease into a constitutionally sanctioned role, whether Chairman or Vice-Chairman, Lin's succession would be institutionalized. The consensus within the Politburo was that Mao should assume the office with Lin becoming Vice-Chairman; but for unknown reasons, Mao had voiced his explicit opposition to the recreation of the position and his assuming it.\n\nFactional rivalries intensified at the Second Plenum of the Ninth Congress in Lushan held in late August 1970. Chen Boda, now aligned with the PLA faction loyal to Lin, galvanized support for the restoration of the office of President of China, despite Mao's wishes to the contrary. Moreover, Chen launched an assault on Zhang Chunqiao, a staunch Maoist who embodied the chaos of the Cultural Revolution, over the evaluation of Mao's legacy.\n\nThe attacks on Zhang found favour with many attendees at the Plenum, and may have been construed by Mao as an indirect attack on the Cultural Revolution itself. Mao confronted Chen openly, denouncing him as a \"false Marxist\", and removed him from the Politburo Standing Committee. In addition to the purge of Chen, Mao asked Lin's principal generals to write self-criticisms on their political positions as a warning to Lin. Mao also inducted several of his supporters to the Central Military Commission, and placed his loyalists in leadership roles of the Beijing Military Region.\n\nBy 1971, diverging interests between the civilian and military wings of the leadership were apparent. Mao was troubled by the PLA's newfound prominence, and the purge of Chen Boda marked the beginning of a gradual scaling-down of the PLA's political involvement. According to official sources, sensing the reduction of Lin's power base and his declining health, Lin's supporters plotted to use the military power still at their disposal to oust Mao in a coup.\n\nLin's son, Lin Liguo, and other high-ranking military conspirators formed a coup apparatus in Shanghai, and dubbed the plan to oust Mao by force \"Outline for Project 571\", which sounds similar to \"Military Uprising\" in Mandarin. It is disputed whether Lin Biao was involved in this process. While official sources maintain that Lin planned and executed the alleged coup attempt, scholars such as Jin Qiu portray Lin as a passive character manipulated by members of his family and his supporters. Qiu contests that Lin Biao was never personally involved in drafting the \"Outline\" and evidence suggests that Lin Liguo drafted the coup.\n\nThe \"Outline\" allegedly consisted mainly of plans for aerial bombardments through use of the Air Force. It initially targeted Zhang Chunqiao and Yao Wenyuan, but would later involve Mao himself. Were the plan to succeed, Lin would arrest his political rivals and assume power. Assassination attempts were alleged to have been made against Mao in Shanghai, from September 8 to September 10, 1971. Perceived risks to Mao's safety were allegedly relayed to the Chairman. One internal report alleged that Lin had planned to bomb a bridge that Mao was to cross to reach Beijing; Mao reportedly avoided this bridge after receiving intelligence reports.\n\nIn the official narrative, on September 13, 1971, Lin Biao, his wife Ye Qun, Lin Liguo, and members of his staff attempted to flee to the Soviet Union ostensibly to seek asylum. En route, Lin's plane crashed in Mongolia, killing all on board. The plane apparently ran out of fuel en route to the Soviet Union. A Soviet team investigating the incident was not able to determine the cause of the crash, but hypothesized that the pilot was flying low to evade radar and misjudged the plane's altitude.\n\nThe official account has been put to question by foreign scholars, who have raised doubts over Lin's choice of the Soviet Union as a destination, the plane's route, the identity of the passengers, and whether or not a coup was actually taking place.\n\nOn September 13, the Politburo met in an emergency session to discuss Lin Biao. Only on September 30 was Lin's death confirmed in Beijing, which led to the cancellation of the National Day celebration events the following day. The Central Committee kept information under wraps, and news of Lin's death was not released to the public until two months following the incident. Many of Lin's supporters sought refuge in Hong Kong; those who remained on the mainland were purged. The event caught the party leadership off guard: the concept that Lin could betray Mao de-legitimized a vast body of Cultural Revolution political rhetoric, as Lin was already enshrined into the Party Constitution as Mao's \"closest comrade-in-arms\" and \"successor\". For several months following the incident, the party information apparatus struggled to find a \"correct way\" to frame the incident for public consumption.\n\nMao became depressed and reclusive after the Lin Biao incident. With Lin gone, Mao had no ready answers for who would succeed him. Sensing a sudden loss of direction, Mao attempted reaching out to old comrades whom he had denounced in the past. Meanwhile, in September 1972, Mao transferred a thirty-eight-year-old cadre from Shanghai, Wang Hongwen, to Beijing and made him Vice-Chairman of the Party. Wang, a former factory worker from a peasant background, was seemingly being groomed for succession. Jiang Qing's position also strengthened after Lin's flight. She held tremendous influence with the radical camp. With Mao's health on the decline, it was clear that Jiang Qing had political ambitions of her own. She allied herself with Wang Hongwen and propaganda specialists Zhang Chunqiao and Yao Wenyuan, forming a political clique later pejoratively dubbed as the \"Gang of Four\".\n\nBy 1973, round after round of political struggles had left many lower-level institutions, including local government, factories, and railways, short of competent staff needed to carry out basic functions. The country's economy had fallen into disarray, which necessitated the rehabilitation of purged lower level officials. However, the party's core became heavily dominated by Cultural Revolution beneficiaries and leftist radicals, whose focus remained upholding ideological purity over economic productivity. The economy remained largely the domain of Zhou Enlai, one of the few moderates 'left standing'. Zhou attempted to restore a viable economy, but was resented by the Gang of Four, who identified him as their main political threat in post-Mao era succession.\n\nIn late 1973, to weaken Zhou's political position and to distance themselves from Lin's apparent betrayal, the \"Criticize Lin, Criticize Confucius\" campaign began under Jiang Qing's leadership. Its stated goals were to purge China of new Confucianist thinking and denounce Lin Biao's actions as traitorous and regressive. Reminiscent of the first years of the Cultural Revolution, the battle was carried out through historical allegory, and although Zhou Enlai's name was never mentioned during this campaign, the Premier's historical namesake, the Duke of Zhou, was a frequent target.\n\nWith a fragile economy and Zhou falling ill to cancer, Deng Xiaoping returned to the political scene, taking up the post of Vice-Premier in March 1973, in the first of a series of promotions approved by Mao. After Zhou withdrew from active politics in January 1975, Deng was effectively put in charge of the government, party, and military, earning the additional titles of PLA General Chief of Staff, Vice-Chairman of the Communist Party, and Vice-Chairman of the Central Military Commission in a short time span.\n\nThe speed of Deng's rehabilitation took the radical camp, who saw themselves as Mao's 'rightful' political and ideological heirs, by surprise. Mao wanted to use Deng as a counterweight to the military faction in government to suppress any remaining influence of those formerly loyal to Lin Biao. In addition, Mao had also lost confidence in the ability of the Gang of Four to manage the economy and saw Deng as a competent and effective leader. Leaving the country in grinding poverty would do no favours to the positive legacy of the Cultural Revolution, which Mao worked hard to protect. Deng's return set the scene for a protracted factional struggle between the radical Gang of Four and moderates led by Zhou and Deng.\n\nAt the time, Jiang Qing and associates held effective control of mass media and the party's propaganda network, while Zhou and Deng held control of most government organs. On some decisions, Mao sought to mitigate the Gang's influence, but on others, he acquiesced to their demands. The Gang of Four's heavy hand in political and media control did not prevent Deng from reinstating his economic policies. Deng emphatically opposed Party factionalism, and his policies aimed to promote unity as the first step to restoring economic productivity.\n\nMuch like the post-Great Leap restructuring led by Liu Shaoqi, Deng streamlined the railway system, steel production, and other key areas of the economy. By late 1975 however, Mao saw that Deng's economic restructuring might negate the legacy of the Cultural Revolution, and launched a campaign to oppose \"rehabilitating the case for the rightists\", alluding to Deng as the country's foremost \"rightist\". Mao directed Deng to write self-criticisms in November 1975, a move lauded by the Gang of Four.\n\nOn January 8, 1976, Zhou Enlai died of bladder cancer. On January 15 Deng Xiaoping delivered Zhou's official eulogy in a funeral attended by all of China's most senior leaders with the notable absence of Mao himself, who had grown increasingly critical of Zhou. Curiously, after Zhou's death, Mao selected neither a member of the Gang of Four nor Deng Xiaoping to become Premier, instead choosing the relatively unknown Hua Guofeng.\n\nThe Gang of Four grew apprehensive that spontaneous, large-scale popular support for Zhou could turn the political tide against them. They acted through the media to impose a set of restrictions on overt public displays of mourning for Zhou. Years of resentment over the Cultural Revolution, the public persecution of Deng Xiaoping (seen as Zhou's ally), and the prohibition against public mourning led to a rise in popular discontent against Mao and the Gang of Four.\n\nOfficial attempts to enforce the mourning restrictions included removing public memorials and tearing down posters commemorating Zhou's achievements. On March 25, 1976, Shanghai's \"Wen Hui Bao\" published an article calling Zhou \"the capitalist roader inside the Party [who] wanted to help the unrepentant capitalist roader [Deng] regain his power\". These propaganda efforts at smearing Zhou's image, however, only strengthened public attachment to Zhou's memory.\n\nOn April 4, 1976, on the eve of China's annual Qingming Festival, a traditional day of mourning, thousands of people gathered around the Monument to the People's Heroes in Tiananmen Square to commemorate Zhou Enlai. The people of Beijing honored Zhou by laying wreaths, banners, poems, placards, and flowers at the foot of the Monument. The most obvious purpose of this memorial was to eulogize Zhou, but the Gang of Four were also attacked for their actions against the Premier. A small number of slogans left at Tiananmen even attacked Mao himself, and his Cultural Revolution.\n\nUp to two million people may have visited Tiananmen Square on April 4. All levels of society, from the poorest peasants to high-ranking PLA officers and the children of high-ranking cadres, were represented in the activities. Those who participated were motivated by a mixture of anger over the treatment of Zhou, revolt against the Cultural Revolution and apprehension for China's future. The event did not appear to have coordinated leadership but rather seemed to be a reflection of public sentiment.\n\nThe Central Committee, under the leadership of Jiang Qing, labelled the event 'counter-revolutionary', and cleared the square of memorial items shortly after midnight on April 6. Attempts to suppress the mourners led to a violent riot. Police cars were set on fire and a crowd of over 100,000 people forced its way into several government buildings surrounding the square. Many of those arrested were later sentenced to prison work camps. Similar incidents occurred in other major cities. Jiang Qing and her allies pinned Deng Xiaoping as the incident's 'mastermind', and issued reports on official media to that effect. Deng was formally stripped of all positions \"inside and outside the Party\" on April 7. This marked Deng's second purge in ten years.\n\nOn September 9, 1976, Mao Zedong died. To Mao's supporters, his death symbolized the loss of the revolutionary foundation of Communist China. When his death was announced on the afternoon of September 9, in a press release entitled \"A Notice from the Central Committee, the NPC, State Council, and the CMC to the whole Party, the whole Army and to the people of all nationalities throughout the country\", the nation descended into grief and mourning, with people weeping in the streets and public institutions closing for over a week. Hua Guofeng chaired the Funeral Committee.\n\nShortly before dying, Mao had allegedly written the message \"With you in charge, I'm at ease\", to Hua. Hua used this message to substantiate his position as successor. Hua had been widely considered to be lacking in political skill and ambitions, and seemingly posed no serious threat to the Gang of Four in the race for succession. However, the Gang's radical ideas also clashed with influential elders and a large segment of party reformers. With army backing and the support of Marshal Ye Jianying, on October 6, the Special Unit 8341 had all members of the Gang of Four arrested in a bloodless coup.\n\nAlthough Hua Guofeng publicly denounced the Gang of Four in 1976, he continued to invoke Mao's name to justify Mao-era policies. Hua spearheaded what became known as the Two Whatevers, namely, \"Whatever policy originated from Chairman Mao, we must continue to support,\" and \"Whatever directions were given to us from Chairman Mao, we must continue to follow.\" Like Deng, Hua wanted to reverse the damage of the Cultural Revolution; but unlike Deng, who wanted to propose new economic models for China, Hua intended to move the Chinese economic and political system towards Soviet-style planning of the early 1950s.\n\nIt became increasingly clear to Hua that, without Deng Xiaoping, it was difficult to continue daily affairs of state. On October 10, Deng Xiaoping personally wrote a letter to Hua asking to be transferred back to state and party affairs; party elders also called for Deng's return. With increasing pressure from all sides, Hua named Deng Vice-Premier in July 1977, and later promoted him to various other positions, effectively catapulting Deng to China's second-most powerful figure. In August, the Party's Eleventh Congress was held in Beijing, officially naming (in ranking order) Hua Guofeng, Ye Jianying, Deng Xiaoping, Li Xiannian, and Wang Dongxing as new members of the Politburo Standing Committee.\n\nIn May 1978, Deng seized the opportunity to elevate his protégé Hu Yaobang to power. Hu published an article in the \"Guangming Daily\", making clever use of Mao's quotations while lauding Deng's ideas. Following this article, Hua began to shift his tone in support of Deng. On July 1, Deng publicized Mao's self-criticism report of 1962 regarding the failure of the Great Leap Forward. With an expanding power base, in September 1978, Deng began openly attacking Hua Guofeng's \"Two Whatevers\".\n\nOn December 18, 1978, the pivotal Third Plenum of the 11th Central Committee was held. At the congress Deng called for \"a liberation of thoughts\" and urged the party to \"seek truth from facts\" and abandon ideological dogma. The Plenum officially marked the beginning of the economic reform era. Hua Guofeng engaged in self-criticism and called his \"Two Whatevers\" a mistake. Wang Dongxing, a trusted ally of Mao, was also criticized. At the Plenum, the Party reversed its verdict on the Tiananmen Incident. Disgraced former leader Liu Shaoqi was allowed a belated state funeral.\n\nAt the Fifth Plenum held in 1980, Peng Zhen, He Long and other leaders who had been purged during the Cultural Revolution were politically rehabilitated. Hu Yaobang became head of the party as its General-Secretary. In September, Hua Guofeng resigned, and Zhao Ziyang, another Deng ally, was named Premier. Deng remained the Chairman of the Central Military Commission, but formal power was transferred to a new generation of pragmatic reformers, who reversed Cultural Revolution policies almost in their entirety.\n\nThe effects of the Cultural Revolution directly or indirectly touched essentially all of China's population. During the Cultural Revolution, much economic activity was halted, with \"revolution\", regardless of interpretation, being the primary objective of the country. Mao Zedong Thought became the central operative guide to all things in China. The authority of the Red Guards surpassed that of the army, local police authorities, and the law in general. Chinese traditional arts and ideas were ignored and publicly attacked, with praise for Mao being practiced in their place. People were encouraged to criticize cultural institutions and to question their parents and teachers, which had been strictly forbidden in traditional Chinese culture.\n\nThe start of the Cultural Revolution brought huge numbers of Red Guards to Beijing, with all expenses paid by the government, and the railway system was in turmoil. The revolution aimed to destroy the \"Four Olds\" (old customs, old culture, old habits, and old ideas) and establish the corresponding \"Four News\", which could range from changing of names and cutting of hair, to the ransacking of homes, vandalizing cultural treasures, and desecrating temples. In a few years, countless ancient buildings, artifacts, antiques, books, and paintings were destroyed by Red Guards. The status of traditional Chinese culture and institutions within China was also severely damaged as a result of the Cultural Revolution, and the practice of many traditional customs weakened.\n\nThe revolution also aimed to \"sweep away\" all \"cow demons and snake spirits\", that is, all the class enemy who promoted bourgeois ideas within the party, the government, the army, among the intellectuals, as well as those from an exploitative family background or who belonged to one of the Five Black Categories. Large numbers of people perceived to be \"monsters and demons\" regardless of guilt or innocence were publicly denounced, humiliated, and beaten. In their revolutionary fervor, students denounced their teachers, and children denounced their parents. Many died through their ill-treatment or committed suicide. In 1968, youths were mobilized to go to the countryside in the Down to the Countryside Movement so they may learn from the peasantry, and the departure of millions from the cities helped end the most violent phase of the Cultural Revolution.\n\nThough the effect of the Cultural Revolution was disastrous for millions of people in China, there were positive outcomes for some sections of the population, such as those in the rural areas. For example, the upheavals of the Cultural Revolution and the hostility to the intellectual elite is widely accepted to have damaged the quality of education in China, especially at the upper end of education system. However, the radical policies also provided many in the rural communities with middle school education for the first time, which is thought to have facilitated the rural economic development in the 70s and 80s. Similarly, a large number of health personnel were deployed to the countryside as barefoot doctors during the Cultural Revolution. Some farmers were given informal medical training, and health-care centers were established in rural communities. This process led to a marked improvement in the health and the life expectancy of the general population.\n\nAfter the most violent phase of the 1960s ended, the attack on traditional culture continued in 1973 with the \"Anti-Lin Biao, Anti-Confucius Campaign\" as part of the struggle against the moderate elements in the party. The Cultural Revolution brought to the forefront numerous internal power struggles within the Communist party, many of which had little to do with the larger battles between Party leaders, but resulted instead from local factionalism and petty rivalries that were usually unrelated to the \"revolution\" itself. Because of the chaotic political environment, local governments lacked organization and stability, if they existed at all. Members of different factions often fought on the streets, and political assassinations, particularly in predominantly rural provinces, were common. The masses spontaneously involved themselves in factions, and took part in open warfare against other factions. The ideology that drove these factions was vague and sometimes non-existent, with the struggle for local authority being the only motivation for mass involvement.\n\nThe Cultural Revolution brought China's education system to a virtual halt for some time. In the early months of the Cultural Revolution, schools and universities were closed. Primary and middle schools later gradually reopened, but all colleges and universities were closed until 1970, and most universities did not reopen until 1972. The university entrance exams were cancelled after 1966, to be replaced later by a system whereby students were recommended by factories, villages and military units, and entrance exams were not restored until 1977 under Deng Xiaoping. According to the documents for the prosecution of the Gang of Four, 142,000 cadres and teachers in the education circles were persecuted, and noted academics, scientists, and educators who died included Xiong Qinglai, Jian Bozan, Rao Yutai, Wu Dingliang and Zhao Jiuzhang.\n\nMany intellectuals were sent to rural labor camps, and many of those who survived left China shortly after the revolution ended. Many survivors and observers suggest that almost anyone with skills over that of the average person was made the target of political \"struggle\" in some way. The entire generation of tormented and inadequately educated individuals is often referred to in the West as well as in China as the 'lost generation'.\n\nDuring the Cultural Revolution, basic education was emphasized and rapidly expanded. While the years of schooling were reduced and education standard fell, the proportion of Chinese children who had completed primary education increased from less than half before the Cultural Revolution to almost all after the Cultural Revolution, and those who completed junior middle school rose from 15% to over two-third. The educational opportunities for rural children expanded considerably, while those of the children of the urban elite became restricted by the anti-elitist policies.\n\nThe impact of the Cultural Revolution on popular education varied among regions, and formal measurements of literacy did not resume until the 1980s. Some counties in Zhanjiang had illiteracy rates as high as 41% some 20 years after the revolution. The leaders of China at the time denied that there were any illiteracy problems from the start. This effect was amplified by the elimination of qualified teachers—many districts were forced to rely on selected students to educate the next generation.\n\nIn 1968, the Communist Party instituted the Down to the Countryside Movement, in which \"Educated Youths\" (\"zhishi qingnian\" or simply \"zhiqing\") in urban areas were sent to live and work in agrarian areas to be re-educated by the peasantry and to better understand the role of manual agrarian labor in Chinese society. In the initial stages, most of the youth who took part volunteered, although later on the government resorted to forcing many of them to move. Between 1968 and 1979, 17 millions of China's urban youths left for the countryside, and being in the rural areas also deprived them the opportunity of higher education. In the post-Mao period, many of those forcibly moved attacked the policy as a violation of their human rights.\"\n\nAccording to Shaorong Huang, the fact that the Cultural Revolution had such massive effects on Chinese society is the result of extensive use of political slogans. In Huang's view, rhetoric played a central role in rallying both the Party leadership and people at large during the Cultural Revolution. For example, the slogan \"to rebel is justified\" (造反有理, zàofǎn yǒulǐ) became a unitary theme.\n\nHuang asserts that political slogans were ubiquitous in every aspect of people's lives, being printed onto ordinary items such as bus tickets, cigarette packets, and mirror tables. Workers were supposed to \"grasp revolution and promote productions\", while peasants were supposed to raise more pigs because \"more pigs means more manure, and more manure means more grain\". Even a casual remark by Mao, \"Sweet potato tastes good; I like it\" became a slogan everywhere in the countryside.\n\nPolitical slogans of the time had three sources: Mao, official Party media such as \"People's Daily\", and the Red Guards. Mao often offered vague, yet powerful directives that led to the factionalization of the Red Guards. These directives could be interpreted to suit personal interests, in turn aiding factions' goals in being most loyal to Mao Zedong. Red Guard slogans were of the most violent nature, such as \"Strike the enemy down on the floor and step on him with a foot\", \"Long live the red terror!\" and \"Those who are against Chairman Mao will have their dog skulls smashed into pieces\".\n\nSinologists Lowell Dittmer and Chen Ruoxi point out that the Chinese language had historically been defined by subtlety, delicacy, moderation, and honesty, as well as the \"cultivation of a refined and elegant literary style\". This changed during the Cultural Revolution. Since Mao wanted an army of bellicose people in his crusade, rhetoric at the time was reduced to militant and violent vocabulary. These slogans were a powerful and effective method of \"thought reform\", mobilizing millions of people in a concerted attack upon the subjective world, \"while at the same time reforming their objective world.\"\n\nDittmer and Chen argue that the emphasis on politics made language a very effective form of propaganda, but \"also transformed it into a jargon of stereotypes—pompous, repetitive, and boring\". To distance itself from the era, Deng Xiaoping's government cut back heavily on the use of political slogans. The practice of sloganeering saw a mild resurgence in the late 1990s under Jiang Zemin.\n\nBefore the Cultural Revolution, in the years 1958–1966, theatre became part of the struggles in the political arena as plays were used as to criticize or support particular members of the party leadership. An opera by Wu Han, \"Hai Rui Dismissed from Office\", was interpreted as a veiled criticism of Mao. It produced an attack by Yao Wenyuan on the opera, an attack often considered the opening shot of Cultural Revolution. It would lead to the persecution and death of its writer Wu Han, as well as others involved in theatre, such as Tian Han, Sun Weishi, and Zhou Xinfang.\n\nDuring the Cultural Revolution, Jiang Qing took control of the stage and introduced the revolutionary model operas under her direct supervision. Traditional operas were banned as they were considered feudalistic and bourgeois, but revolutionary opera, which is based on Peking opera but modified in both content and form, was promoted. Starting in 1967, eight Model Dramas (6 operas and 2 ballets) were produced in the first three years, and the most notable of the operas was \"The Legend of the Red Lantern\". These operas were the only approved opera form and other opera troupes were required to adopt or change their repertoire. The model operas were also broadcast on the radio, made into films, blared from public loudspeakers, taught to students in schools and workers in factories, and became ubiquitous as a form of popular entertainment and the only theatrical entertainment for millions in China.\n\nIn 1966, Jiang Qing put forward the Theory of the Dictatorship of the Black Line in Literature and Arts where those perceived to be bourgeois, anti-socialist or anti-Mao \"black line\" should be cast aside, and called for the creation of a new literature and arts. Writers, artists and intellectuals who were the recipients and disseminators of the \"old culture\" would be comprehensively eradicated. The majority of writers and artists were seen as \"black line figures\" and \"reactionary literati\", and therefore persecuted, many were subjected to \"criticism and denunciation\" where they may be publicly humiliated and ravaged, and they may also be imprisoned or sent to be reformed through hard labour. For instance, Mei Zhi and her husband were sent to a tea farm in Lushan County, Sichuan, and she did not resume writing until the 1980s.\n\nIn the documents for the prosecution of the Gang of Four released in 1980, more than 2,600 people in the field of arts and literature were revealed to have been persecuted by the Ministry of Culture and units under it alone. Many died as a result of their ordeal and humiliation—the names of 200 well-known writers and artists who were persecuted to death during the Cultural Revolution were commemorated in 1979, these include writers such as Lao She, Fu Lei, Deng Tuo, Baren, Li Guangtian, Yang Shuo, and Zhao Shuli.\n\nDuring the Cultural Revolution, only a few writers who gained permission or requalification under the new system, such as Hao Ran and some writers of worker or farmer background, can have had their work published or reprinted. The permissible subject matter of proletarian and socialist literature would be strictly defined, and all the literary periodicals in the country ceased publication by 1968. The situation eased after 1972, more writers were allowed to write and many provincial literary periodicals resumed publication, but the majority of writers still could not work.\n\nThe effect is similar in the film industry. A booklet titled \"Four Hundred Films to be Criticized\" was distributed, and film directors and actors/actresses were criticized with some tortured and imprisoned. These included many of Jiang Qing's rivals and former friends in the film industry, and those who died in the period included Cai Chusheng, Zheng Junli, Shangguan Yunzhu, Wang Ying, and Xu Lai. No feature films were produced in mainland China for seven years apart from the few approved \"Model dramas\" and highly ideological films, a notable example of the handful of films made and permitted to be shown in this period is \"Taking Tiger Mountain by Strategy\".\n\nAfter the communist takeover in China, much of the popular music from Shanghai was condemned as Yellow Music and banned, and during the Cultural Revolution, composers of such popular music such as Li Jinhui were persecuted. Revolution-themed songs instead were promoted, and songs such as \"Ode to the Motherland\", \"Sailing the Seas Depends on the Helmsman\", \"The East Is Red\" and \"Without the Communist Party, There Would Be No New China\" were either written or became extremely popular during this period. \"The East Is Red\", especially, became popular; it \"de facto\" supplanted \"The March of the Volunteers\" as the national anthem of China, though the latter was restored to its previous place after the Cultural Revolution ended.\n\nSome of the most enduring images of Cultural Revolution come from the poster art. Propaganda art in posters was used as a campaigning tool and mass communication device, and often served as the main source of information for the people. They were produced in large number and widely disseminated, and were used by the government and Red Guards to educate the public the ideological value as defined by the party state. There were many types of posters, the two main genres being the \"dazibao\" (大字报, big character poster) and \"commercial\" propapanda poster (宣传画, \"xuanchuanhua\").\n\nThe \"dazibao\" may be slogans, poems, commentary and graphics often freely created and posted on walls in public spaces, factories and communes. They were vital to Mao's struggle in the Cultural Revolution, and Mao himself wrote his own \"dazibao\" at Beijing University on August 5, 1966, calling on the people to \"Bombard the Headquarters\". The \"commercial\" propaganda posters were artworks produced by the government and sold cheaply in store to be displayed in homes. The artists for these posters may be amateurs or uncredited professionals, and the posters were largely in a Socialist Realist visual style with certain conventions—for example, images of Mao should be depicted as \"red, smooth, and luminescent\".\n\nTraditional themes in art were sidelined the Cultural Revolution, and artists such as Feng Zikai, Shi Lu, and Pan Tianshou were persecuted. Many of the artists have been assigned to manual labour, and artists were expected to depict subjects that glorified the Cultural Revolution related to their labour. In 1971, in part to alleviate their suffering, a number of leading artists were recalled from manual labour or free from captivity under the initiative of Zhou Enlai to decorate hotels and railway stations defaced by Red Guards slogans. Zhou said that the artworks were for meant for foreigners, therefore were \"outer\" art not be under the obligations and restrictions placed on \"inner\" art meant for Chinese citizens. To him, landscape paintings should also not be considered one of the \"Four Olds\". However, Zhou was weakened by cancer and in 1974, the Jiang Qing faction seized these and other paintings and mounted exhibitions in Beijing, Shanghai and other cities denouncing the artworks as \"Black Paintings\".\n\nChina's historical sites, artifacts and archives suffered devastating damage, as they were thought to be at the root of \"old ways of thinking.\" Artifacts were seized, museums and private homes ransacked, and any item found that was thought to represent bourgeois or feudal ideas was destroyed. There are few records of exactly how much was destroyed—Western observers suggest that much of China's thousands of years of history was in effect destroyed, or, later, smuggled abroad for sale, during the short ten years of the Cultural Revolution. Chinese historians compare the cultural suppression during the Cultural Revolution to Qin Shihuang's great Confucian purge. Religious persecution intensified during this period, as a result of religion being viewed in opposition to Marxist–Leninist and Maoist thinking.\n\nAlthough being undertaken by some of the Revolution's enthusiastic followers, the destruction of historical relics was never formally sanctioned by the Communist Party, whose official policy was instead to protect such items. On May 14, 1967, the CCP central committee issued a document entitled \"Several suggestions for the protection of cultural relics and books during the Cultural Revolution\". Nevertheless, enormous damage was inflicted on China's cultural heritage. For example, a survey in 1972 in Beijing of 18 key spots of cultural heritage, including the Temple of Heaven and Ming Tombs, showed extensive damage. Of the 80 cultural heritage sites in Beijing under municipal protection, 30 were destroyed, and of the 6,843 cultural sites under protection by Beijing government decision in 1958, 4,922 were damaged or destroyed. Numerous valuable old books, paintings, and other cultural relics were also burnt to ashes.\n\nLater archaeological excavation and preservation after the destructive period in the 1960s, however, were protected, and several major discoveries, such as that of the Terracotta Army and the Mawangdui, occurred after the peak of the Revolution. Nevertheless, the most prominent symbol of academic research in archaeology, the journal \"Kaogu\", did not publish during the Cultural Revolution.\n\nMillions of people in China were violently persecuted during the Cultural Revolution. Those identified as spies, \"running dogs\", \"revisionists\", or coming from a suspect class (including those related to former landlords or rich peasants) were subject to beating, imprisonment, rape, torture, sustained and systematic harassment and abuse, seizure of property, denial of medical attention, and erasure of social identity. At least hundreds of thousands of people were murdered, starved, or worked to death. Millions more were forcibly displaced. Young people from the cities were forcibly moved to the countryside, where they were forced to abandon all forms of standard education in place of the propaganda teachings of the Communist Party of China.\n\nSome people were not able to stand the torture and, losing hope for the future, committed suicide. One of the most famous cases of attempted suicide due to political persecution involved Deng Xiaoping's son, Deng Pufang, who jumped (or was thrown) from a four-story building after being \"interrogated\" by Red Guards. Instead of dying, he became paraplegic. In the trial of the so-called Gang of Four, a Chinese court stated that 729,511 people had been persecuted, of whom 34,800 were said to have died.\n\nAccording to \"\", an estimated 100,000 people died in one of the worst factional struggles in Guangxi in January–April 1968, before Premier Zhou sent the PLA to intervene. Zheng Yi's \"\" alleged \"systematic killing and cannibalization of individuals in the name of political revolution and 'class struggle' among the Zhuang people in Wuxuan County, Guangxi, during that period. Zheng was criticized in China for reliance on unpublished interviews and for negative portrayal of a Chinese ethnic minority, although senior party historians corroborated allegations of cannibalism. Sinologist Gang Yue questioned how \"systematic\" the cannibalism could have been, given the inherent factionalism of the Cultural Revolution. In \"Mao's Last Revolution\" (2006), MacFarquhar and Schoenhals also dispute that it was communism that compelled the Zhuang in this area towards cannibalism, noting that similar incidents occurred under pressure from the Kuomintang secret police in the republican period.\n\nEstimates of the death toll, including civilians and Red Guards, vary greatly. They range upwards to several millions, but an estimate of around 400,000 deaths is a widely accepted minimum figure, according to Maurice Meisner. MacFarquhar and Schoenhals assert that in rural China alone some 36 million people were persecuted, of whom between 750,000 and 1.5 million were killed, with roughly the same number permanently injured. In \"\", Jung Chang and Jon Halliday claim that as many as 3 million people died in the violence of the Cultural Revolution. The Holocaust memorial museum puts the death toll between 5 and 10 million. The true figure of those who were persecuted or died during the Cultural Revolution however may never be known, since many deaths went unreported or were actively covered up by the police or local authorities. The state of Chinese demographics records at the time was also very poor, and the PRC has been hesitant to allow formal research into the period.\n\nThe Cultural Revolution wreaked much havoc on minority cultures and ethnicities in China. In Inner Mongolia, some 790,000 people were persecuted. Of these, 22,900 were beaten to death and 120,000 were maimed, during a witch hunt to find members of the alleged separatist New Inner Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party. In Xinjiang, copies of the Qur'an and other books of the Uyghur people were apparently burned. Muslim imams were reportedly paraded around with paint splashed on their bodies. In the ethnic Korean areas of northeast China, language schools were destroyed. In Yunnan Province, the palace of the Dai people's king was torched, and a massacre of Muslim Hui people at the hands of the People's Liberation Army in Yunnan, known as the Shadian incident, reportedly claimed over 1,600 lives in 1975. After the Cultural Revolution was over, the government gave reparations for the Shadian Incident, including the erection of a Martyr's Memorial in Shadian.\n\nConcessions given to minorities were abolished during the Cultural Revolution as part of the Red Guards' attack on the \"Four Olds\". People's communes, previously only established in parts of Tibet, were established throughout Tibetan Autonomous Region in 1966, removing Tibet's exemption from China's period of land reform, and reimposed in other minority areas. The effect on Tibet had been particularly severe as it came following the repression after the 1959 Tibetan uprising. The destruction of nearly all of its over 6,000 monasteries, which began before the Cultural Revolution, were often conducted with the complicity of local ethnic Tibetan Red Guards. Only eight were left intact by the end of 1970s.\n\nMany monks and nuns were killed, and the general population were subjected to physical and psychological torture. There were an estimated 600,000 monks and nuns in Tibet in 1950, and by 1979, most of them were dead, imprisoned or had disappeared. The Tibetan government in exile claimed that a large number of Tibetans also died from famines in 1961–1964 and 1968–1973 as a result of forced collectivization, however the number of Tibetan deaths or whether famines in fact took place in these periods is disputed. Despite official persecution, some local leaders and minority ethnic practices survived in remote regions.\n\nThe overall failure of the Red Guards' and radical assimilationists' goals was largely due to two factors. It was felt that pushing minority groups too hard would compromise China's border defences. This was especially important as minorities make up a large percentage of the population that live along China's borders. In the late 1960s China experienced a period of strained relations with a number of its neighbours, notably with the Soviet Union and India. Many of the Cultural Revolution's goals in minority areas were simply too unreasonable to be implemented. The return to pluralism, and therefore the end of the worst of the effects of the Cultural Revolution to ethnic minorities in China, coincides closely with Lin Biao's removal from power.\n\nTo make sense of the mass chaos caused by Mao's leadership in the Cultural Revolution while preserving the Party's authority and legitimacy, Mao's successors needed to lend the event a \"proper\" historical judgment. On June 27, 1981, the Central Committee adopted the \"\"Resolution on Certain Questions in the History of Our Party Since the Founding of the People's Republic of China\",\" an official assessment of major historical events since 1949.\n\nThe Resolution frankly noted Mao's leadership role in the movement, stating that \"chief responsibility for the grave 'Left' error of the 'Cultural Revolution,' an error comprehensive in magnitude and protracted in duration, does indeed lie with Comrade Mao Zedong.\" It diluted blame on Mao himself by asserting that the movement was \"manipulated by the counterrevolutionary groups of Lin Biao and Jiang Qing,\" who caused its worst excesses. The Resolution affirmed that the Cultural Revolution \"brought serious disaster and turmoil to the Communist Party and the Chinese people.\"\n\nThe official view aimed to separate Mao's actions during the Cultural Revolution from his \"heroic\" revolutionary activities during the Chinese Civil War and the Second Sino-Japanese War. It also separated Mao's personal mistakes from the correctness of the theory that he created, going as far as to rationalize that the Cultural Revolution contravened the spirit of Mao Zedong Thought, which remains an official guiding ideology of the Party. Deng Xiaoping famously summed this up with the phrase \"Mao was 70% good, 30% bad.\" After the Cultural Revolution, Deng affirmed that Maoist ideology was responsible for the revolutionary success of the Communist Party, but abandoned it in practice to favour \"Socialism with Chinese characteristics\", a very different model of state-directed market economics.\n\nIn Mainland China, the official view of the party now serves as the dominant framework for Chinese historiography of the time period; alternative views (see below) are discouraged. Following the Cultural Revolution, a new genre of literature known as \"Scar literature\" (\"Shanghen Wenxue\") emerged, being encouraged by the post-Mao government. Largely written by educated youth such as Liu Xinhua, Zhang Xianliang, and Liu Xinwu, scar literature depicted the Revolution from a negative viewpoint, using their own perspectives and experiences as a basis.\n\nAfter the suppression of the Tiananmen Square Protests of 1989, both liberals and conservatives within the Party accused each other of excesses that they claimed were reminiscent of the Cultural Revolution. Li Peng, who promoted the use of military force, cited that the student movement had taken inspiration from the grassroots populism of the Cultural Revolution, and that if it is left unchecked, would eventually lead to a similar degree of mass chaos. Zhao Ziyang, who was sympathetic to the protestors, later accused his political opponents of illegally removing him from office by using \"Cultural Revolution-style\" tactics, including \"reversing black and white, exaggerating personal offenses, taking quotes out of context, issuing slander and lies... innundating the newspapers with critical articles making me out to be an enemy, and casual disregard for my personal freedoms.\"\n\nAlthough the Chinese Communist Party officially condemns the Cultural Revolution, there are many Chinese people who hold more positive views of it, particularly amongst the working class, who benefited most from its policies. Since Deng's ascendancy to power, the government has arrested and imprisoned figures who have taken a strongly pro-Cultural Revolution stance. For instance, in 1985, a young shoe-factory worker put up a poster on a factory wall in Xianyang, Shaanxi, which declared that \"The Cultural Revolution was Good\" and led to achievements such as \"the building of the Nanjing Yangtze River Bridge, the creation of hybrid rice crops and the rise of people's consciousness.\" The factory worker was eventually sentenced to ten years in prison, where he died soon after \"without any apparent cause.\"\n\nOne of the student leaders of the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, Shen Tong, author of \"Almost a Revolution\", has a positive view of some aspects of the Cultural Revolution. According to Shen, the trigger for the famous Tiananmen hunger-strikes of 1989 was a big-character poster (\"dazibao\"), a form of public political discussion that gained prominence during the Cultural Revolution. Shen remarked that the congregation of students from across the country to Beijing on trains and the hospitality they received from residents was reminiscent of the experiences of Red Guards in the Cultural Revolution.\n\nSince the advent of the Internet, people inside and outside China have argued online that the Cultural Revolution had many beneficial qualities for China that have been denied by both the post-Mao Chinese Communist Party and Western media. Some hold that the Cultural Revolution 'cleansed' China from superstitions, religious dogma, and outdated traditions in a 'modernist transformation' that later made Deng's economic reforms possible. These sentiments increased following the U.S. bombing of the Chinese embassy in Belgrade in 1999, when a segment of the population began to associate anti-Maoist viewpoints with the United States.\n\nContemporary Maoists have also become more organized in the internet era, partially as a response to criticisms of Mao from academics and scholars. One Maoist website managed to collect thousands of signatures demanding punishment for those who publicly criticize Mao. Along with the call for legal action, this movement demands the establishment of agencies similar to Cultural Revolution-era \"neighborhood committees\", in which \"citizens\" would report anti-Maoists to local public security bureaus. Maoist rhetoric and mass mobilization methods were resurgent in the interior city of Chongqing during the political career of Bo Xilai.\n\nPublic discussion of the Cultural Revolution is still limited in China. The Chinese government continues to prohibit news organizations from mentioning details of the Cultural Revolution, and online discussions and books about the topic are subject to official scrutiny. Textbooks on the subject continue to abide by the \"official view\" (see above) of the events. Many government documents from the 1960s on remain classified, and are not open to formal inspection by private academics. At the National Museum of China in Beijing, the Cultural Revolution is barely mentioned in its historical exhibits. Despite inroads made by numerous prominent sinologists, independent scholarly research of the Cultural Revolution is discouraged by the Chinese government. There is concern that as witnesses age and die, the opportunity to research the event thoroughly within China may be lost.\n\nThat the government still displays such heightened sensitivities around the Cultural Revolution is an indicator that it still considers itself, at least in part, an inheritor of its legacy. The government is apprehensive that academic probing and popular discussions will lead to ideological conflict and increase social instability. It may threaten the foundations of Communist rule. The focus of the Chinese government on maintaining political and social stability has been a top priority since the Tiananmen crackdown on reformers on June 4, 1989, and the current government has no interest in re-evaluating any issue that might lead to a split in the Chinese leadership, or which might polarize the Party on ideological grounds.\n\nIn Hong Kong a pro-Communist anti-colonial strike inspired by the Cultural Revolution was launched in 1967. Its excesses damaged the credibility of these activists for more than a generation in the eyes of Hong Kong residents. In Taiwan, Chiang Kai-shek initiated the Chinese Cultural Renaissance to counter what he regarded as destruction of traditional Chinese values by the Communists on the mainland. In Albania, Communist leader and Chinese ally Enver Hoxha began a \"Cultural and Ideological Revolution\" organized along the same lines as the Cultural Revolution.\n\nIn the world at large, Mao Zedong emerged as a symbol of the anti-establishment, grassroots populism, and self-determination. His revolutionary philosophies found adherents in the Shining Path of Peru, the Naxalite insurgency in India, various political movements in Nepal, the U.S.-based Black Panther Party, and the 1960s counterculture movement in general. In 2007 Hong Kong Chief Executive Donald Tsang remarked that the Cultural Revolution represented the 'dangers of democracy', remarking \"People can go to the extreme like what we saw during the Cultural Revolution [...], when people take everything into their own hands, then you cannot govern the place\". The remarks caused controversy in Hong Kong and were later retracted with an accompanying apology.\n\nVarious schools of thought have emerged surrounding several key questions surrounding the Cultural Revolution, seeking to explain why events unfolded the way they did, why it began in the first place, and what it \"was\". The movement's complexities contain many contradictions: led by an all-powerful omnipresent leader, it was mainly driven to fruition by a series of grassroots-led popular uprisings against the Communist establishment. While Mao's leadership was pivotal at the beginning of the movement, Jin Qiu contends that as events progressed it deviated significantly from Mao's utopian vision. In this sense, the Cultural Revolution was actually a much more decentralized and varied movement that gradually lost cohesion, spawning a large number of 'local revolutions' which differed in their nature and goals.\n\nAcademic interest has also focused on the movement's relationship with Mao's personality. Mao had always envisioned himself as a wartime guerrilla leader, which made him wary of the bureaucratic details of peacetime governance. With the Cultural Revolution Mao was simply \"returning to form\", once again taking on the role of a guerrilla leader fighting against an institutionalized party bureaucracy. MacFarquhar and Schoenhals, writing in \"Mao's Last Revolution\", paint the movement as neither a \"bona fide\" war over ideological purity \"nor\" a mere power struggle to remove Mao's political rivals.\n\nWhile Mao's personal motivations were certainly pivotal to the Cultural Revolution, they reasoned that a multitude of other complex factors contributed to the way events unfolded. These include China's relationship with the global Communist movement, geopolitical concerns, the ideological rift between China and the Soviet Union, Khrushchev's ouster, and the failures of the Great Leap Forward. The movement was, at least in part, a legacy project to cement Mao's place in history, aimed to boost his prestige while he was alive \"and\" preserve the invulnerability of his ideas after his death.\n\nThe mass hysteria surrounding the Cultural Revolution was also unprecedented. Historian Phillip Short contends that the Cultural Revolution contained elements that were akin to a form of religious worship. Mao's godlike status during the period yielded him ultimate definitional power over Communist doctrine, yet the esoteric and often contradictory nature of his writings led to endless wars over its interpretation, with both conservatives and liberals drawing on Mao's teachings to achieve their divergent goals. Many factional struggles were not unlike religious wars, with all sides claiming allegiance to the most \"authentic\" form of Maoism.\n\nVirtually all English-language books paint a highly negative picture of the movement. Historian Anne F. Thurston wrote that it \"led to loss of culture, and of spiritual values; loss of hope and ideals; loss of time, truth and of life\". Barnouin and Yu summarized the Cultural Revolution as \"a political movement that produced unprecedented social divisions, mass mobilization, hysteria, upheavals, arbitrary cruelty, torture, killings, and even civil war\", calling Mao \"one of the most tyrannical despots of the twentieth century\".\n\nIn \"\", Chang and Halliday attributed all the destruction of the Cultural Revolution to Mao personally, with more sympathetic portrayals of his allies and opponents. A small number of scholars have challenged the mainstream portrayals of the Cultural Revolution and attempted to understand it in a more positive light. Mobo Gao, writing in \"The Battle for China's Past: Mao and the Cultural Revolution\", asserts that the movement benefited millions of Chinese citizens, particularly agricultural and industrial workers, and sees it as egalitarian and genuinely populist, citing continued Maoist nostalgia in China today as remnants of its positive legacy.\n\n\nInspired by:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12308344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12308344", "title": "Dabalorivhuwa Patriotic Front", "text": "Dabalorivhuwa Patriotic Front\n\nDabalorivhuwa Patriotic Front (Abbreviation: DPF) is a political party in South Africa. based amongst the Vhavenda population in the north-eastern parts of the country and seeks self-determination for the Vhavenda. It was founded in 1998 by Tshifhiwa Makhale, who still leads the party. The DPF represents the Vhavenda at the Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organization and OEAS (Organization of Emerging African States).\n"}
{"id": "30017929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30017929", "title": "Daniel Domscheit-Berg", "text": "Daniel Domscheit-Berg\n\nDaniel Domscheit-Berg (né Berg; born 1978), previously known under the pseudonym Daniel Schmitt, is a German technology activist. He is best known as the author of \"Inside WikiLeaks: My Time with Julian Assange at the World's Most Dangerous Website\" (2011).\n\nAfter leaving WikiLeaks, he announced plans in January 2011 to open a new website for anonymous online leaks called OpenLeaks. At a Chaos Computer Club (CCC) event in August 2011, he announced its preliminary launch and invited hackers to test the security of the \"OpenLeaks\" system, as a result of which the CCC criticized him for exploiting the good name of the club to promote his OpenLeaks project and expelled him from their club, despite his lack of membership. This decision was revoked in February 2012. In September 2011, several news organizations cited Domscheit-Berg's split from Julian Assange and WikiLeaks as one of a series of events and errors that led to the release that month of all 251,287 United States diplomatic cables in the Cablegate affair. In 2011, he was named by \"Foreign Policy\" magazine in its FP Top 100 Global Thinkers, with Sami Ben Gharbia and Alexey Navalny.\n\nDomscheit-Berg began working with WikiLeaks after meeting Assange at the Chaos Computer Club's annual conference (24C3) in 2007. On 25 September 2010, after reportedly being suspended by Assange for questioning him too much, Domscheit-Berg told \"Der Spiegel\" that he was resigning, saying \"WikiLeaks has a structural problem. I no longer want to take responsibility for it, and that's why I am leaving the project.\"\n\nDomscheit-Berg was highlighted in the Sveriges Television programme \"WikiRebels – The Documentary\", released in the second week of December 2010.\n\nA book about his experience with and separation from WikiLeaks was released in Germany in February 2011, entitled \"Inside WikiLeaks: Meine Zeit bei der gefährlichsten Website der Welt\" (\"My Time at the World's Most Dangerous Website\"). An English translation followed some days later by Australian publisher Scribe Publications. In Domscheit-Berg's book he criticizes Julian Assange's leadership style and handling of the Afghan War Diaries.\n\nDomscheit-Berg stated he would destroy WikiLeaks data when leaving WikiLeaks. He wanted to be sure that duplicates would be confirmed deleted by a notary with an affidavit. In leaving, WikiLeaks state that Domscheit-Berg representing OpenLeaks, held the organisation to ransom over the unpublished documents and internal organisation communications with mediations by a member of the hacker collective Chaos Computer Club between OpenLeaks and WikiLeaks. Domscheit-Berg apparently told weekly \"Der Freitag\" that \"I took no documents from WikiLeaks with me\", leading to suspension of mediations. Domscheit-Berg was eventually kicked out of Chaos Computer Club due to his conduct during the mediation and for requesting the Chaos Computer Club to test OpenLeaks' security. This decision was revoked in February 2012 by the general assembly of the Chaos Computer Club.\n\nWikiLeaks and other sources later confirmed the destruction of over 3500 unpublished whistleblower communications with some communications containing hundreds of documents, including the US government's No Fly List, 5 GB of Bank of America leaks, insider information from 20 neo nazi organizations and proof of torture and government abuse of a Latin American country.\n\nIn December 2010, Domscheit-Berg announced the intention to start a site named \"OpenLeaks\" with the intention of being more transparent than WikiLeaks. \"In these last months, the WikiLeaks organization has not been open any more. It lost its open-source promise.\"\n\nInstead of publishing the documents, Domscheit-Berg said that his proposed OpenLeaks process would send the leaked documents to various news entities or publishers.\n\nOpenLeaks was supposed to start public operations in January 2011. However, on 23 December 2012 Domscheit-Berg announced on the website that the organisation would not go ahead as previously intended and would now only focus on spreading information and expertise regarding how to set up and run leak websites rather than directly facilitating leaks themselves.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38061871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38061871", "title": "Dealul Spirii Trial", "text": "Dealul Spirii Trial\n\nDealul Spirii Trial (Romanian: \"Procesul din Dealul Spirii\") was a political trial conducted by a military tribunal in the Kingdom of Romania. 271 members of the Communist Party of Romania were accused of treason after voting for the inclusion of the party into the Third International. The defendants were convicted and later pardoned.\n\nThe trial was the first step of the repression of communists in the Kingdom of Romania. Less than two years after the trial, the parliament voted a total ban of the Communist Party and communist ideology; for the next two decades, the government enforced a violent repression against the communists and labour unions.\n\nA number of politicians and intellectuals, including Nicolae Iorga, Dem I. Dobrescu and Iuliu Maniu voiced their discontent over the lack of constitutional basis for the trial.\n\nOn May 12, 1921, the last day of the Congress of the Romanian Socialist-Communist Party, the party leaders (including Gheorghe Cristescu, Moscu Kohn, Mihai Gheorghiu Bujor and Elek Koblos), as well as a large number of communist sympathisers were arrested by gendarmes and police who broke into the hall.\n\nThey were held for eight months in miserable conditions, the detention being extremely tough for all of them, being tortured and not being allowed to have visits from the relatives. They were forced to work for the military, cleaning up the latrines and the courtyards of the barracks.\n\nThe communists were put into a joint trial with Max Goldstein, an anarchist who bombed the Senate, killing three people.\n\nThe charges included a large number of crimes including crime against the state security, terrorism, collaboration with the enemy and instigation to riot. The main evidence for the charges was that the communists voted for the affiliation of the party to the Third International.\n\nGheorghe Cristescu, the leader of the party was the main defendant. Constantin Cernat, the royal commissaire, accused him of \"taking an active part in preaching the abolition of the present form of government, preaching rebellion, insulting and contempting state institutions\". Cernat tried to prove the links between the Socialist movement in Romania and the Soviet Union.\n\nUnder the pretext that the courtroom was too small, the public was not allowed to witness the trial and only a small number of journalists were allowed inside.\n\nThe main defense attorney was Dem I. Dobrescu, the dean of the Bucharest Bar, helped by leading lawyers including Osvald Teodoreanu, Iorgu Petrovici and N. D. Cocea. The defense brought 600 witnesses, while the prosecuting attorney brought 300 witnesses. \n\nIn favour of the communists spoke General Alexandru Averescu, Iuliu Maniu,the managing director of \"Adevărul\", Constantin Mille and historian Nicolae Iorga said he supported the communists' right to a fair trial and argued that the affiliation to an international organization is not an action against state security.\n\nThe defense strategy was to try to separate the defenders into people who were arrested for their political activity (the communists) and the anarchists, such as Max Goldstein.\n\nAll but 37 of the prisoners were convicted. Among those that were found innocent were Mihai Cruceanu, Moscu Kohn, Ilie Moscovici, Elek Koblos and Constantin Popovici. The sentences for the Communist Party members varied from 1 month in prison to 10 years of forced labour; Goldstein was convicted to forced labour for life.\n\nThe defenders began a hunger strike. As the press began revealing the abuses in the prison, two prison guards, a captain and a lieutenant, were dismissed.\n\nLawyer Take Polikrat wrote a letter to King Ferdinand I of Romania, asking him to show his goodwill toward the defendants. An amnesty was discussed in the government, after which, it was signed by the King on June 6, 1922, 213 of the prisoners being released. Excluded from amnesty were 48 of the defendants, who stood accused of high treason, military espionage or terrorist attacks.\n"}
{"id": "27213087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27213087", "title": "Extension of University Education Act, 1959", "text": "Extension of University Education Act, 1959\n\nThe Extension of University Education Act, Act 45 of 1959, formed part of the apartheid system of racial segregation in South Africa. This act made it a criminal offense for a non-white student to register at a formerly open university without the written permission of the Minister of Internal Affairs. New universities were established for the various non-white groups. In the Western Cape, a school in Bellville was established for coloureds, while a school at Ngoye was created in Zululand for Zulus. For Indians, a school was established at Durban in Natal Province, at Turfloop in the Transvaal for the Sotho-Tswanans, while Fort Hare, the former Lovedale Mission College, became restricted to Xhosas.\n\nThe act was repealed by the Tertary Education Act, 1988.\n"}
{"id": "53767779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53767779", "title": "Felony disenfranchisement in Virginia", "text": "Felony disenfranchisement in Virginia\n\nFelony disenfranchisement in Virginia is a provision of the Virginia Constitution: \"No person who has been convicted of a felony shall be qualified to vote unless his civil rights have been restored by the Governor or other appropriate authority\".\n\nGovernor Ralph Northam will likely continue the more-or-less automatic restoration policy instituted by his predecessor Terry McAuliffe, who personally signed 168,000 orders restoring voting rights. The matter was a major issue in the 2017 Virginia gubernatorial campaign.\n\nThe 1830 Virginia constitution limited disenfranchisement to \"infamous crimes\", while its 1851 successor drafted by reformers added bribery and the 1870 charter targeted treason and corruption. The 1902 constitution contained a clause that disenfranchised Virginians convicted of numerous crimes, including \"treason or of any felony, bribery, petit larceny, obtaining money or property under false pretenses, embezzlement, forgery, or perjury.\" The current constitution was adopted in 1972.\n\nOn 30 June 2014, Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe officially removed application requirements for non-violent felons. Offenders with \"violent/more serious\" felonies were required to satisfy several conditions and appeal to the governor five years after the end of completing the sentence in order to regain voting rights.\n\nOn 22 April 2016, McAuliffe issued an executive order granting voting rights to every convicted felon in the state, violent and non-violent, who had been released from prison, on parole or probation.\n\nThe Virginia Supreme Court ultimately ruled, in a 4–3 decision, that McAuliffe's executive order was unconstitutional, and that restoring voting rights must be an individualized process. Terry McAuliffe now is restoring rights to \"individuals who have been convicted of a felony and are no longer incarcerated or under active supervision . . . In addition to confirming completion of incarceration and supervised release, the SOC considers factors such as active warrants, pre-trial hold, and other concerns that may be flagged by law enforcement. . . . The Governor will review SOC's analysis of each individual’s record and will make the final decision on proposed candidates for restoration of rights.\"\n\nMcAuliffe noted that the next governor could have an entirely different policy on restoration of rights.\n\nA number of amendments have been proposed to revamp the requirements for restoration of rights. In 2017, the Virginia Senate passed a constitutional amendment to permanently disenfranchise violent felons, with the Virginia General Assembly being empowered to decide what constitutes a violent felony, but this died in the Virginia House of Delegates Privileges and Elections committee. Delegate Greg Habeeb had introduced a more moderate proposal than that proposed by Thomas Norment.\n"}
{"id": "27094989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27094989", "title": "Frankfurt Declaration", "text": "Frankfurt Declaration\n\nThe Frankfurt Declaration is the general name that refers to the set of principles titled Aims and Tasks of Democratic Socialism issued by the Socialist International in Frankfurt, West Germany, on 3 July 1951. The Declaration condemned capitalism for placing the \"rights of ownership before the rights of man\", for allowing economic inequality, and for its historical support of imperialism and fascism.\n\nThe Frankfurt Declaration was updated at the 18th Congress of the Socialist International in Stockholm in June 1989.\n\nIt declared that capitalism has coincided with \"devastating crises and mass unemployment\". It praised the development of the welfare state as challenging capitalism and declared its opposition to Bolshevik communism.\n\nIt declared that socialism was an international movement that was plural in nature that required different approaches in different circumstances. However the Declaration stated that true socialism could only be achieved through democracy. The economic goals of socialism according to the Declaration include: full employment; the welfare state; achievement of public ownership through a variety of means, including: nationalization, creation of cooperatives to counter capitalist private enterprise, and/or securing rights for trade unions.\n\nThe Declaration stated that economic and social planning did not necessarily have to be achieved in a centralized form, but could also be achieved in decentralized forms. The Declaration denounced all forms of discrimination whether economic, legal, or political must be abolished, including discrimination against women, races, regions, and other social groups. The Declaration denounced all forms of colonialism and imperialism.\n\n"}
{"id": "776738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=776738", "title": "Giovanni Gentile", "text": "Giovanni Gentile\n\nGiovanni Gentile (; 30 May 1875 – 15 April 1944) was an Italian neo-Hegelian idealist philosopher, educator, and fascist politician. The self-styled \"philosopher of Fascism\", he was influential in providing an intellectual foundation for Italian Fascism, and ghostwrote part of \"The Doctrine of Fascism\" (1932) with Benito Mussolini. He was involved in the resurgence of Hegelian idealism in Italian philosophy and also devised his own system of thought, which he called \"actual idealism\" or \"actualism\", and which has been described as \"the subjective extreme of the idealist tradition\".\n\nGiovanni Gentile was born in Castelvetrano, Sicily. He was inspired by Italian intellectuals such as Mazzini, Rosmini, Gioberti, and Spaventa from whom he borrowed the idea of \"autoctisi\", \"self-construction\", but also was strongly influenced by the German idealist and materialist schools of thought – namely Karl Marx, Hegel, and Fichte, with whom he shared the ideal of creating a \"Wissenschaftslehre\", a theory for a structure of knowledge that makes no assumptions. Friedrich Nietzsche, too, influenced him, as seen in an analogy between Nietzsche's \"Übermensch\" and Gentile's \"Uomo Fascista\". In religion he presented himself as a Catholic (of sorts), and emphasised actual idealism's Christian heritage; Antonio G. Pesce insists that 'there is in fact no doubt that Gentile was a Catholic', but he occasionally identified himself as an atheist, albeit one who was still \"culturally\" a Catholic.\n\nHe won a fierce competition to become one of four exceptional students of the prestigious Scuola Normale Superiore di Pisa, where he enrolled in the Faculty of Humanities.\n\nDuring his academic career, Gentile served in a number of positions, including as: \n\nIn 1922, Gentile was named Minister of Public Education for the government of Benito Mussolini. In this capacity he instituted the \"Riforma Gentile\" – a reformation of the secondary school system that had a long-lasting impact on Italian education. His philosophical works included \"The Theory of Mind as Pure Act\" (1916) and \"Logic as Theory of Knowledge\" (1917), with which he defined Actual Idealism, a unified metaphysical system reinforcing his sentiments that philosophy isolated from life, and life isolated from philosophy, are but two identical modes of backward cultural bankruptcy. For Gentile, this theory indicated how philosophy could directly influence, mould, and penetrate life; or, how philosophy could govern life.\n\nIn 1925, Gentile headed two constitutional reform commissions that helped establish the corporate state of Fascism. He would go on to serve as president of the Fascist state's Grand Council of Public Education (1926–28), and even gained membership on the powerful Fascist Grand Council (1925–29).\n\nGentile's philosophical system – the foundation of all Fascist philosophy – viewed thought as all-embracing: no-one could actually leave his or her sphere of thought, nor exceed his or her thought. Reality was unthinkable, except in relation to the activity by means of which it becomes thinkable, positing that as a unity — held in the active subject and the discrete abstract phenomena that reality comprehends – wherein each phenomenon, when truly realised, was centered within that unity; therefore, it was innately spiritual, transcendent, and immanent, to all possible things in contact with the unity. Gentile used that philosophic frame to systematize every item of interest that now was subject to the rule of absolute self-identification – thus rendering as correct every consequence of the hypothesis. The resultant philosophy can be interpreted as an idealist foundation for Legal Naturalism.\n\nGiovanni Gentile was described by Mussolini, and by himself, as \"the philosopher of Fascism\"; moreover, he was the ghostwriter of part of the essay, \"The Doctrine of Fascism\" (1932), attributed to Mussolini. It was first published in 1932, in the \"Italian Encyclopedia\", wherein he described the traits characteristic of Italian Fascism at the time: compulsory state corporatism, Philosopher Kings, the abolition of the parliamentary system, and autarky. He also wrote the \"Manifesto of the Fascist Intellectuals\" which was signed by a number of writers and intellectuals, including Luigi Pirandello, Gabriele D'Annunzio, Filippo Tommaso Marinetti and Giuseppe Ungaretti.\n\nGentile became a member of the Fascist Grand Council in 1925, and remained loyal to Mussolini even after the fall of the Fascist government in 1943. He supported Mussolini's establishment of the \"Republic of Salò\", a puppet state of Nazi Germany, despite having criticized its anti-Jewish laws, and accepted an appointment in its government. Gentile was the last president of the Royal Academy of Italy (1943–1944).\n\nIn 1944 a group of anti-fascist partisans, led by , murdered the \"philosopher of Fascism\" as he returned from the prefecture in Florence, where he had been arguing for the release of anti-fascist intellectuals.\n\nBenedetto Croce wrote that Gentile \"... holds the honor of having been the most rigorous neo-Hegelian in the entire history of Western philosophy and the dishonor of having been the official philosopher of Fascism in Italy.\" His philosophical basis for fascism was rooted in his understanding of ontology and epistemology, in which he found vindication for the rejection of individualism, and acceptance of collectivism, with the state as the ultimate location of authority and loyalty outside of which individuality had no meaning (and which in turn helped justify the totalitarian dimension of fascism).\n\nThe conceptual relationship between Gentile's actual idealism and his conception of fascism is not self-evident. The supposed relationship does not appear to be based on logical deducibility. That is, actual idealism does not entail a fascist ideology in any rigorous sense. Gentile enjoyed fruitful intellectual relations with Croce from 1899 – and particularly during their joint editorship of \"La Critica\" from 1903 to 1922 – but broke philosophically and politically from Croce in the early 1920s over Gentile's embrace of fascism. (Croce assesses their philosophical disagreement in \"Una discussione tra filosofi amici\" in \"Conversazioni Critiche\", II.)\n\nUltimately, Gentile foresaw a social order wherein opposites of all kinds weren't to be considered as existing independently from each other; that 'publicness' and 'privateness' as broad interpretations were currently false as imposed by all former kinds of government, including capitalism and communism; and that only the reciprocal totalitarian state of Corporative Syndicalism, a fascist state, could defeat these problems which are made from reifying as an external reality that which is in fact, to Gentile, only a reality in thinking. Whereas it was common in the philosophy of the time to see the conditional subject as abstract and the object as concrete, Gentile postulated (after Hegel) the opposite, that the subject is concrete and the object a mere abstraction (or rather, that what was conventionally dubbed \"subject\" is in fact only conditional object, and that the true subject is the \"act of\" being or essence of the object).\n\nGentile was, because of his \"actualist\" system, a notable philosophical presence across Europe during his time. At its base, Gentile's brand of idealism asserted the primacy of the \"pure act\" of thinking. This act is foundational to all human experience – it \"creates\" the phenomenal world – and involves a process of \"reflective awareness\" (in Italian, \"l'atto del pensiero, pensiero pensante\") that is constitutive of the Absolute and revealed in education. Gentile's emphasis on seeing Mind as the Absolute signaled his \"revival of the idealist doctrine of the autonomy of the mind.\" It also connected his philosophical work to his vocation as a teacher. In actual idealism, then, pedagogy is transcendental and provides the process by which the Absolute is revealed. His idea of a transcending truth above positivism garnered particular attention by emphasizing that all modes of sensation only take the form of ideas within one's mind; in other words, they are mental constructs. To Gentile, for example, even the correlation of the function and location of the physical brain with the functions of the physical body was merely a consistent creation of the mind, and not of the brain (itself a creation of the mind). Observations like this have led some commentators to view Gentile's philosophy as a kind of \"absolute solipsism,\" expressing the idea \"that only the spirit or mind is real\".\n\nActual idealism also touches on ideas of concern to theology. An example of actual idealism in theology is the idea that although man may have invented the concept of God, it does not make God any less real in any possible sense, so long as God is not presupposed to exist as abstraction\",\" and except in case qualities about what existence actually entails (i.e. being invented apart from the thinking that makes it) are presupposed. Benedetto Croce objected that Gentile's \"pure act\" is nothing other than Schopenhauer's will.\n\nTherefore, Gentile proposed a form of what he called \"absolute Immanentism\" in which the divine was the present conception of reality in the totality of one's individual thinking as an evolving, growing and dynamic process. Many times accused of solipsism, Gentile maintained his philosophy to be a Humanism that sensed the possibility of nothing beyond what was colligate in perception; the self's human thinking, in order to communicate as immanence is to be human like oneself, made a cohesive empathy of the self-same, without an external division, and therefore not modeled as objects to one's own thinking. Whereas solipsism would feel trapped in realization of its solitude, actualism rejects such a privation and is an expression of the only freedom which is possible within objective contingencies, where the transcendental Self does not even exist as an object, and the dialectical co-substantiation of others necessary to understand the empirical self are felt as true others when found to be the unrelativistic subjectivity of that whole self and essentially unified with the spirit of such higher self \"in actu\", where others can be truly known, rather than thought as windowless monads.\n\nA number of developments in Gentile's thought and career helped to define his philosophy, including:\n\nGentile sought to make his philosophy the basis for Fascism. However, with Gentile and with Fascism, the \"problem of the party\" existed by virtue of the fact that the Fascist \"party\", as such, arose organically rather than from a tract or pre-established socio-political doctrine. This complicated the matter for Gentile as it left no consensus to any way of thinking among Fascists, but ironically this aspect was to Gentile's view of how a state or party doctrine should live out its existence: with natural organic growth and dialectical opposition intact. The fact that Mussolini gave credence to Gentile's view points via Gentile's authorship helped with an official consideration, even though the \"problem of the party\" continued to exist for Mussolini as well.\n\nGentile placed himself within the Hegelian tradition, but also sought to distance himself from those views he considered erroneous. He criticized Hegel's dialectic (of Idea-Nature-Spirit), and instead proposed that everything is Spirit, with the dialectic residing in the \"pure act\" of thinking. Gentile believed Marx's conception of the dialectic to be the fundamental flaw of his application to system making. To the neo-Hegelian Gentile, Marx had made the dialectic into an external object, and therefore had abstracted it by making it part of a material process of historical development. The dialectic to Gentile could only be something of human precepts, something that is an active part of human thinking. It was, to Gentile, concrete subject and not abstract object. This Gentile expounded by how humans think in forms wherein one side of a dual opposite could not be thought of without its complement.\n\n\"Upward\" wouldn't be known without \"downward\" and \"heat\" couldn't be known without \"cold\", while each are opposites they are co-dependent for either one's realization: these were creations that existed as dialectic only in human thinking and couldn't be confirmed outside of which, and especially could not be said to exist in a condition external to human thought like independent matter and a world outside of personal subjectivity or as an empirical reality when not conceived in unity and from the standpoint of the human mind.\n\nTo Gentile, Marx's externalizing of the dialectic was essentially a fetishistic mysticism. Though when viewed externally thus, it followed that Marx could then make claims to the effect of what state or condition the dialectic objectively existed in history, \"a posteriori\" of where any individuals opinion was while comporting oneself to the totalized whole of society. i.e. people themselves could by such a view be ideologically 'backwards' and left behind from the current state of the dialectic and not themselves be part of what is actively creating the dialectic as-it-is.\n\nGentile thought this was absurd, and that there was no 'positive' independently existing dialectical object. Rather, the dialectic was natural to the state, as-it-is. Meaning that the interests composing the state are composing the dialectic by their living organic process of holding oppositional views within that state, and unified therein. It being the mean condition of those interests as ever they exist. Even criminality, is unified as a necessarily dialectic to be subsumed into the state and a creation and natural outlet of the dialectic of the positive state as ever it is.\n\nThis view (influenced by the Hegelian theory of the state) justified the corporative system, where in the individualized and particular interests of all divergent groups were to be personably incorporated into the state (\"Stato etico\") each to be considered a bureaucratic branch of the state itself and given official leverage. Gentile, rather than believing the private to be swallowed synthetically within the public as Marx would have it in his objective dialectic, believed that public and private were \"a priori\" identified with each other in an active and subjective dialectic: one could not be subsumed fully into the other as they already are beforehand the same. In such a manner each is the other after their own fashion and from their respective, relative, and reciprocal, position. Yet both constitute the state itself and neither are free from it, nothing ever being truly free from it, the state (as in Hegel) existing as an eternal condition and not an objective, abstract collection of atomistic values and facts of the particulars about what is positively governing the people at any given time.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13481868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13481868", "title": "Global Peace Initiative of Women", "text": "Global Peace Initiative of Women\n\nGlobal Peace Initiative of Women (GPIW) is an international network of women and men spiritual and community leaders.\n\nGPIW developed from the first World Summit of Women Religious and Spiritual Leaders at the Palais des Nations (United Nations) in Geneva in 2002. GPIW places a special emphasis on building interfaith understanding and developing leadership in young community leaders worldwide. It is located in New York City. \n\nDena Merriam is the founder and convener. The co-chair is Joan Chittister O.S.B., a Benedictine Sister and author.\n\nThe 2008 summit has taken place in Jaipur, India, from March 6-10. In March GPIW convened an environmental conference in Kenya to mobilize to protect the environment and promote sustainable development..\n\n"}
{"id": "51554173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51554173", "title": "Homelessness Australia", "text": "Homelessness Australia\n\nHomelessness Australia (HA) is the national peak body organisation for homelessness services and homeless people in Australia. The organisation provides systemic advocacy for the sector and works in collaboration with support services, state and national homelessness organisations, other peak organisations, government agencies and the broader community. Homelessness Australia was formed in late 1998 as the Australian Federation of Homelessness Organisations (AFHO) by the Council to Homeless Persons Australia (CHPA), National Youth Coalition for Housing (NYCH), and Women's Services Network (WESNET). The organisation was established with the mission of advancing research and promoting national policy and action to reduce homelessness.\n\nThe organisation maintains that without strong national peak bodies, government decision makers may ignore the important welfare issues of affordable housing and homelessness.\n\nHA and other homelessness services launched a #VoteHome campaign, proposing that government assist in halving the number of homeless by 2025.\n\nHA has stated that the often cited statistics on homelessness do not reflect those \"on the verge\" of homelessness, which they estimate to be at 850,000.\n\nSince 2007, Homelessness Australia has coordinated a national awareness week for homeless people, Homeless Persons' Week.\n\n"}
{"id": "7272109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7272109", "title": "Hydrography of Norte de Santander", "text": "Hydrography of Norte de Santander\n\nThe department of Norte de Santander in northwestern Colombia, and its capital, Cúcuta, contains several rivers. The rivers are mostly part of the Maracaibo Lake basin, with the southeastern section located in the Magdalena River basin. Important fluvial elements are the Zulia, Catatumbo and Pamplonita Rivers. The entity in charge of taking care of these hydrology of Norte de Santander is Corponor.\n\nThe department of Norte de Santander is for the most part situated in the Eastern Ranges of the Colombian Andes. The northeastern majority of the department is part of the Maracaibo Lake drainage basin, while the southwestern tip of Norte de Santander forms part of the Magdalena River basin. The southeasternmost part of the department is located in the Orinoco River basin. The department, reaching to an altitude of in the Tamá Páramo, has a total surface area of .\n\nThe Catatumbo River is a fast flowing river, originating as the confluence of the Peralonso, Sardinata and Zulia Rivers in the central valley of Norte de Santander.\n\nThe upper part of the river is sourced from the highlands near the Macho Rucio Peak (\"gray mule peak\"), located in the south of Ocaña province. Its mouth is at Lake Maracaibo in Venezuela, through a delta called La Empalizada (\"the fence\"). Early sections of the Catatumbo River are known as Chorro Oroque, Rio de la Cruz, and Algodonal. Only in the Venezuelan section it is navegable.\n\nLeft tributaries of the Catatumbo River include:\n\nRight tributaries include:\n\nThe Peralonso River originates in a small lake in the Guerrero highlands, at altitude. It crosses the municipalities of Salazar, Gramalote, Santiago, San Cayetano and Cúcuta, ending in the Zulia River, near the village of San Cayetano. It forms the upper course of the Catatumbo River.\n\nThe Sardinata River originates in La Vuelta, in the Guerrero highlands, near the village of Caro at about above sea level. It has a length of almost . Near the river, many forestal and mining activities are present. Its affluents are on the left tributary Santa and the right tributaries Riecito San Miguel, La Sapa, José, La Esmeralda, La Resaca and Pedro José. Its Colombian segment ends in Tres Bocas and continues in Venezuela terminating in the Catatumbo River.\n\nThe Zulia River is formed by several rivers originating in lakes in the highlands of Cachiri at about 4,220 meters above sea level, and located between 12°41'2\" east longitude and 8’9\" north latitude in the Santander Department, in the eastern range of the Andes mountains. The river flows through the province of Cúcuta, passing through the neighbouring nation of Venezuela, and ends in the waters of Lake Maracaibo.\n\nIn Colombian territory, this river is navigable for about , starting from the old port of Los Canchos. The river flows for through Venezuela, the last being deep and calm, adaptable to embarkments of big proportions.\n\nIn the past, this river provided a basic means of transportation which was responsible for much of prosperity of the neighbouring valleys, like the center of nutritioned commerce, whose products fed many of the towns nearby. The Zulia river's tributaries include the Cucutilla, Arboleda, Salazar and the Peralonso Rivers, which flow from the left, and the Pamplonita River with its own tributaries the Táchira and La Grita Rivers, flowing from the right.\n\nAreas surrounding the Zulia River are fertile, with many forests decorating the landscape. However, the climate of this area could be seen as unhealthy, due to the density of trees and the many swamps.\n\nThe Salazar River originates near the city of Zulia and terminates near the namesake town of Salazar de las Palmas. It's an important river in the tradition of local inhabitants. It is used for swimming, fishing and cooking the traditional sancocho soup on the beaches of the river. There are some areas of the river near Salazar city that have waterfalls of many minor water streams falling into the river, that are often visited by tourists.\n\nLa Grita River originates in the Venezuelan Andes near the town of La Grita at about above sea level. It's a natural boundary between Colombia and Venezuela for about , until its mouth in the Zulia River. Its affluents are the Guaramito River, La China, Riecito, Río Lobatera, and Caño de La Miel.\n\nThe Pamplonita River was of crucial importance in the economy of the country in the 18th to 19th centuries as the main channel for the transportation of cacao.\n\nIt originates in the Altogrande Mountains at above sea level, near the city of Pamplona. It flows downhill through the Cariongo Valley, and near Chinácota the confluence with the minor affluent Honda River is situated. The Pamplonita River flows through the Cúcuta valley, where it has a slow flow, ending in the Zulia River, flowing towards Maracaibo Lake. Most of this river is above above sea level. The total length of the river is about and its watershed covers . \n\nThe confluence of the Pamplonita and Zulia Rivers is located near the urban area of Cúcuta, the capital of Norte de Santander, in particular the Rinconada neighborhood. This part contains the risk of flooding, until in the streets of the city. The river has periodically flooded the local hospital and the Colón Park, named after Cristóbal Colón. The river also produces a significant erosion in the surrounding lands, in part because of the local dry climate and shortage of vegetation. This is seen more noticeably in the areas near Cúcuta; La Garita and Los Vados.\n\nThe Pamplonita River crosses the municipalities of: Cúcuta, Pamplona, Los Patios, Chinácota, Bochalema and Pamplonita, and the villages of El Diamante, La Donjuana, La Garita, San Faustino and Agua Clara.\n\nThe river receives sewage water from Pamplona, Los Patios and Cúcuta, and residues from slaughterhouses, pesticides and fertilizers. The 1541 law regulates the use of water from the rivers to concessions regulated by the local government, but there are many illegal non-regulated diversions of water.\nAffluents of Pamplonita River are:\nMain affluents: Táchira River, Rio Viejo, Las Brujas, Caño Cachicana and Caño Guardo<br>\nMinor affluents: Monteadentro, Los Negros, Los Cerezos, Zipachá, Tanauca, Ulagá, El Gabro, El Ganso, Santa Helena, Cucalina, La Teja, De Piedra, La Palmita, Matagira, La Chorrera, Iscalá, Honda, Cascarena, Villa Felisa, Ciénaga, Juana Paula, Don Pedra, Faustinera, Europea, Rodea, Aguasucia\n\nMinor affluents: Navarro, San Antonio, La Palma, Hojancha, La Laguna, Batagá, Galindo, Santa Lucía, Las Colonias, El Laurel, Chiracoca, Montuosa, El Masato, Quebraditas, Aguanegra, Zorzana, El Ojito, Jaguala, Viajaguala, Tío José, El Magro, Aguadas, La Rinconada, Periquera, Voladora, La Sarrera, La Cuguera, Guaimaraca, Aguaclarera, La Trigrera, Negro, El Oso, and Chipo\n\nThe Táchira River originates near Tamá, in the mountains of Las Banderas, at an altitude of above sea level. The river flows towards the north, as a natural boundary between Colombia and Venezuela. It crosses the municipalities of Herrán, Ragonvalia, Villa del Rosario and Cúcuta. Tachira River flows into the Pamplonita River near the village El Escobal.\n\nIts affluents are El Salado, La Margarita, El Naranjal, Palogordo, El Palito, Agua Sucia and la Horma.\n\n"}
{"id": "28737300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28737300", "title": "Jerusalem-Project", "text": "Jerusalem-Project\n\nThe Jerusalem-Project is a Swiss-Israeli-Palestinian initiative for the creation of new, unexpected perspectives, which should create a Win-win situation for Israelis and Palestinians. First activities began in 2003; after a preparation for years a systematic cooperation of three essential partners was initiated in October 2008 for a time period of 20 years.\n\nThe \"International Peace and Cooperation Center\" (IPCC) with seat in the western Jerusalem neighborhood of French Hill is a Palestinian co-operative organization, that was founded in 1998 by Dr. Rami Nasrallah who is the current executive head of the organization. Its mission is to support the development of a highly informed, competent and active Palestinian civil society which participates in urban democracy and is capable of defending its social, economic and political rights. The IPCC is active in the fields of policy research, urban planning, zoning and development, civil society and community engagement, and the media. The IPCC received £400,000 in 2011 and 2012 from the British Foreign Office. The IPCC has claimed that Israel’s policy in Jerusalem aimed “to segregate and paralyse the urban fabric,\" and that \"the motive behind Israel’s security barrier was to redraw the municipal borders of Jerusalem.\"\n\nThe \"Futura-Institute\" (FI) was founded by Professor Shlomo Hasson as a think tank to discuss issues concerning the future of the State of Israel from a geopolitical, social, economic and cultural perspective. This policy institute was inspired by a vision of Theodor Herzl, which he outlined in his novel \"The Old New Land\" (1902).\n\nThe \"Lassalle-Institute\" (LI), based within the , was founded by Pia Gyger and Niklaus Brantschen. It works with leaders in business, politics and other sectors of society. By means of lectures, seminars, research, coaching and corporate consulting, the institute advocates ethics rooted in holistic consciousness. In 2003, it obtained consultative status with the United Nations Economic and Social Council. \n\"Jerusalem – Open City for Learning World Peace\" is the most important project of the Lassalle-Institut. \n\nThe vision of the Lassalle-Institut for Jerusalem is based on biblical prophecies (Book of Micah and Book of Isaiah), that are holy to the three major Abrahamic religions and speak of Jerusalem as \"The Holy City of Peace\".\nThese texts deliver what can be seen as guidelines for Jerusalem and all humankind:\n\nIn the future, Jerusalem should be:\n\nHasson and Nasrallah have developed a joint vision for Jerusalem as an open city. The authors promote a two-state solution with two capitals, living side by side in peace. The main idea is that Jerusalem should be politically divided but physically, economically and socially should function as one open city.\n\nIn January 2009, the Lassalle Institute associated the partners from East Jerusalem and West Jerusalem with representatives of the UN, including the Swiss ambassador Paul Seger. In 2009 and 2010, the Lassalle Institute linked up the IPCC and the FI with the offices of the United Nations Development Programme and the European Commission in Jerusalem.\n\nIn January 2007, the Lassalle-Institut set up an office in Jerusalem. The leaders of the Jerusalem-Project within the Lassalle Institut, Niklaus Brantschen and Pia Gyger, live in Jerusalem twice a year for several weeks for networking.\n\nThe Lassalle-Institut in Bad Schoenbrunn and in particular its Jerusalem office are continuously evolving the project, establishing it in Switzerland, preparing conferences at the Lassalle-Haus, visiting Jerusalem and the United Nations Headquarters in New York, doing fundraising and other activities.\n\nFrom October 14–16, 2010, the first annual international conference on the issue of Jerusalem and the challenges it faces was held under the title \"Jerusalem: The Global Challenge\" in the „Pontifical Institute Notre Dame of Jerusalem Centre“ in Jerusalem. It was organized by the Lassalle-Institut, the IPCC and the Futura Institute, with the support of the Swiss Federal Department of Foreign Affairs (FDFA) and the office of the European Commission in East Jerusalem. The purpose of the conference was to make the Jerusalem-Project known in Jerusalem and to form a network of engaged Israelis, Palestinians, and international community representatives who would promote the vision and the activities of the Jerusalem-Project. There was a mutual recognition that Jerusalem should be politically divided according to the principles of the two-state solution but physically, socially and economically united.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55480629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55480629", "title": "Josie Badger", "text": "Josie Badger\n\nJosie Badger is the Co- Director at the national RAISE Center. She is active and engaged in the Pittsburgh community in spite of her disabilities caused by \ncongenital myastenic syndrome.\n\nBadger co-founded a community service club at age 12 to train service dogs for those with disabilities. Badger earned her degree in Disability Law and Advocacy from Geneva College in 2007. She received her graduate degree in Rehabilitation Counseling from the University of Pittsburgh and later earned her doctorate in Healthcare Ethics at Duquesne University in 2014. Badger is one of eight people in the world born with a rare form of the genetic disorder muscular dystrophy.\n\nBadger worked on \"Launching Into Adulthood: An Integrated Response to Support Transition of Youth With Chronic Health Conditions and Disabilities\", a project of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. She co-founded the Pennsylvania Youth Leadership Network and the Children’s Hospital Advisory Network for Guidance and Empowerment, serving as president and vice-president, and also was served as president and vice president of the National Youth Leadership Network. She has been recognized as an advocate on behalf of those with disabilities.\n\nBadger is the Youth Director at The Parent Education & Advocacy Leadership Center and co-director of the national Rehabilitation Services Administration Parent Training and Information Center technical assistance center. She is the author of the TedxPittsburgh talk \"Exceptional by Choice\". She filed a suit against Preit Associates, LP for violating the Americans with Disabilities Act on January 3, 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "27237881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27237881", "title": "List of cabinets of Croatia", "text": "List of cabinets of Croatia\n\nThis is a list of cabinets of Croatian government, the chief executive body of the Republic of Croatia.\n\nNote that between 1990 and 2000 Croatia had a semi-presidential system and members of government, including Prime Ministers, were all directly appointed and removed by the President of Croatia, this post being held by Franjo Tuđman from 1990 to late 1999. During his two terms as president, Tuđman was also the chairman of the ruling conservative Croatian Democratic Union (HDZ), with all Prime Ministers in this period also coming from his party's ranks.\n\nFollowing Tuđman's death in December 1999 and the subsequent January 2000 general election, the new centre-left parliamentary majority led by Ivica Račan amended the Constitution of Croatia in November 2000 and introduced a parliamentary system, greatly reducing the President's executive powers. Therefore, Prime Ministers since Račan have usually been the leaders of parties (or coalition of parties) which held a parliament majority according to results of the general election. Meanwhile, the position of president of the Republic was made into a non-party post, which meant that Presidents who served after Tuđman (Stjepan Mesić from 2000 to 2010, Ivo Josipović from 2010 to 2015 and Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović since 2015) \"froze\" or resigned their party memberships upon getting elected or taking office for the entire duration of their 5-year terms.\n\nThere have been 12 Prime Ministers since the introduction of a multi-party system via the 1990 general election and 14 governments headed by them. Since independence in June 1991, however, there have been 11 prime ministers and 13 governments (beginning with that of Josip Manolić).\n\nNine Prime Ministers were members of the HDZ during their term in office, two were members of the SDP and one was not a member of any political party. To date two Prime Ministers (Ivica Račan and Ivo Sanader) have chaired more than one government.\n\nThe longest serving Prime Ministers to date have been Ivo Sanader, who held the post for 2,022 days between December 2003 and July 2009, followed by Zoran Milanović (1637 days from December 2011 until January 2016), Zlatko Mateša (1,542 days from November 1995 to January 2000) and Ivica Račan (1,426 days from January 2000 to December 2003). The shortest serving Prime Minister was Stjepan Mesić (86 days from May to August 1990).\n\nTo date the only Prime Minister to have been voted out of office by a motion of no confidence is Tihomir Orešković, on 16 June 2016. He also has the distinction of being the first non-partisan Prime Minister.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8589004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8589004", "title": "List of national capitals serving as administrative divisions", "text": "List of national capitals serving as administrative divisions\n\nThe table below lists capitals serving as administrative divisions by country.\n\n"}
{"id": "386660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=386660", "title": "Loran Scholars Foundation", "text": "Loran Scholars Foundation\n\nFounded in Toronto in 1988, the Loran Scholars Foundation is a national charitable organization awarding scholarships for students entering university in Canada. Loran Scholars receive the country's largest undergraduate merit award on the basis of character, commitment to service and leadership potential.\n\nThe Loran Scholars Foundation selects up to 34 students each year for an undergraduate scholarship valued at $100,000. It has been active since 1990.\n\nThe scholarship is tenable at 25 public universities throughout Canada; however, the lower level awards (provincial awards and finalist awards) can be used at any public Canadian university or college. Twenty-one Loran Scholars have gone on to win Rhodes Scholarships. It consists of annual stipends, a matching tuition waiver, summer internship funding, annual retreats and scholar gatherings, and mentoring over four years of study.\n\nThe Loran Scholar selection process is rigorous. The selection process is as follows:\n\n\n\nSince the award was established in 1990, the foundation has selected 599 Loran Scholars. Past Loran Scholars include Lucas Skoczkowski, founder and former CEO of Redknee; Graham Fox, president and CEO of the Institute for Research on Public Policy; Diane Nalini de Kerckhove,\na jazz musician and physicist; youth engagement leader and social justice advocate Michelle Dagnino; CPR assist device inventor Corey Centen; François Tanguay-Renaud, Director of York University's Jack & Mae Nathanson Centre on Transnational Human Rights, Crime and Security, and Associate Dean Research at Osgoode Hall Law School; Fédération des communautés Francophones et Acadienne du Canada (FCFA) executive director Alain Dupuis; Thalmic Labs co-founder and CEO Stephen Lake; and Orpyx CEO Breanne Everett.\n\nIn 2017, several Loran Scholars were recognized for their impact. Patrick Hickey received the Young Humanitarian Award from the Canadian Red Cross. Afzal Habib, co-founder of Kidogo, and Stephen Lake, co-founder and CEO of Thalmic Labs were on Forbes 30 Under 30 list. Amy Tan and Lauren Albrecht were featured on Avenue Magazine's Top 40 list, for Calgary and Edmonton, respectively.\n\nSeveral scholarships are awarded by the foundation.\n\n\nLoran Scholars are selected on the basis of character, service and leadership potential.\n\nEach Loran Scholar receives a scholarship valued at $100,000 over four years (assuming annual renewal during university). The award has three main financial components:\n\n\nLoran Scholars may study at the following universities in Canada:\n\nAtlantic Canada:\nDalhousie University, Memorial University, Mount Allison University, University of King's College, University of New Brunswick.\n\nQuébec:\nMcGill University, Université Laval, Université de Montréal, Université de Sherbrooke.\n\nOntario:\nMcMaster University, Ryerson University, Queen's University, University of Guelph, University of Ottawa, University of Toronto, University of Waterloo, Western University, York University.\n\nPrairies:\nUniversity of Alberta, University of Calgary, University of Manitoba, University of Saskatchewan.\n\nBritish Columbia:\nSimon Fraser University, University of British Columbia, University of Victoria.\n\nA unique aspect of the Loran Award is the mentorship program, where each Loran Scholar is paired with a mentor who is a business or community leader. Current and former mentors include ACE Bakery founder Martin Connell, OC, O.Ont; Canadian senator Hon. Landon Pearson; former Ontario Premier Bob Rae; social entrepreneur Scott Gilmore; Second Cup co-founder Frank O'Dea; Dr. Alice Chan-Yip, C.M. of the Montreal Children's Hospital; TV host Lindsay Cameron Wilson; and McMaster professor Dr. Gary Warner.\n\nFurthermore, the Loran Scholars Foundation offers funding (up to $10,000) for three summer internships:\n\n\nSummer employers have included the World Health Organization, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the Mãori Law Review, BMO Capital Markets, VIA Rail Canada, McKinsey & Co, the Canadian Urban Institute, Frontier College, the Government of Ontario, the Government of Nunavut, Samaritan's Purse and several alumni-founded companies such as Redknee and Canopy Labs.\n\nThe Loran Scholars Foundation previously administered the W. Garfield Weston Award for outstanding college-bound students in Canada. Established in 1999 with the support of the W. Garfield Weston Foundation, it awarded up to 25 scholarships to entering college students, and up to 25 scholarships to upper-year college students. The foundation selected its final class of W. Garfield Weston Scholars in 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19741243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19741243", "title": "Mid-European Union", "text": "Mid-European Union\n\nThe Mid-European Union was a post-World War I political association established in the United States of America on 16 September 1918 \"to negotiate territorial disputes between the emerging nations\" of Central Europe \"and to work towards some form of federal union or economic alliance.\"\n\nOn 26 October 1918, Thomas Masaryk proclaimed the association's \"Declaration of Common Aims\" for the independence for the Czechoslovaks, Poles, Yugoslavs, Ukrainians, Uhro-Rusyns, Lithuanians, Romanians, Italian-Irredentists, Unredeemed Greeks, Albanians, Zionists, and Armenians. This occurred at a meeting in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, at Independence Hall.\n"}
{"id": "51134555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51134555", "title": "Municipal Association of Victoria", "text": "Municipal Association of Victoria\n\nThe Municipal Association of Victoria (MAV) is the legislated peak body for representing local government in Victoria.\n\nThe overall purpose of the MAV is to represent the interests of the 79 local governments in Victoria. Its stated roles are to support councils and councillors, provide a platform for advocacy and promote the role of local government. The organisation also provides services to its member councils. These include joint procurement, insurance and policy advice.\n\nThe Association was created in 1879 to represent the interests of local government in Victoria. The \"Municipal Association Act 1907\" of the Parliament of Victoria formally recognised the organisation as a peak body, primarily for the purpose of creating the Municipal Officers Fidelity Guarantee Fund.\n\nDuring the amalgamation of local councils in Victoria in the early 1990s, the MAV campaigned against the compulsory competitive tendering introduced for the 78 new councils created after the process, arguing that it had significant impacts on both council employees and residents.\n\nFollowing the amalgamations and return of democratic government in 1996/97, the MAV ran a number of programs to monitor and support councils restructuring in the new process. This included the Step Asset Management Program, which eventually assessed a large number of primarily rural councils as being financially unsustainable.\n\nIn February 2015, the Victorian Auditor-General published a report into Local Government Victoria and the MAV on the effectiveness, efficiency and economy of the support provided to councils. It found serious structural and governance deficiencies in the MAV, prompting significant media coverage on its findings. The report questioned many aspects of the organisation's operations, including value for money of its procurement activities and lack of public accountability. The report's conclusions prompted Frankston City Council to leave the MAV in August 2015. It rejoined in August 2017 after a new council resolution was passed. Many other councils expressed similar concern and considered ceasing their memberships, including the City of Monash, Shire of Mitchell, and City of Boroondara. Councillors from the Cities of Yarra and Melbourne also expressed concerns over the report. Boroondara later withdrew its representation from the Association after a lengthy and public court battle with the City of Darebin, citing issues presented in the Auditor-General's report.\n\nThe MAV's initial response to the report disputed some of its key conclusions, including the premise that the MAV could be subject to the direction of the state government. However, following the appointment of a new board in March 2015 and a motion from the State Council in early 2016, independent auditors and consultants through Ernst & Young and Deloitte have been appointed to oversee the implementation of the report's recommendations.\n\nThe Board of the MAV is made up of councillors from member councils. It consists of 12 members elected by councils in each region and a directly elected president. Elections are conducted once every two years.\n\nThe State Council operates as the governing body of the Association. It is made up of single representatives from all member councils who formulate, debate and vote on policies on the operations of the MAV. These include association rules, policies and strategic planning.\n\nAll Victorian local governments are members of the MAV. The City of Frankston withdrew in 2015 but rejoined in August 2017 after a new council resolution was passed.. The City of Boroondara resolved to withdraw its representation to the Association in December 2016, preventing Cr Coral Ross from contesting the presidency of the MAV.\n\n"}
{"id": "3093819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3093819", "title": "National Coalition Government of the Union of Burma", "text": "National Coalition Government of the Union of Burma\n\nThe National Coalition Government of the Union of Burma ( ; NCGUB) was an administration claimed to be the government in exile of Burma (Myanmar). It had its headquarters in Rockville, Maryland, United States. It was formally established in December 1990, with Sein Win as its first prime minister. It was dissolved in September 2012.\n\nOn 18 December 1990, in Manerplaw, the National League for Democracy (NLD) and the other opposition parties of Burma established the National Coalition Government of the Union of Burma, and elected Sein Win, a first cousin of Aung San Suu Kyi, as its prime minister. \n\nA newer version, the Democratic Government of Burma, replaced the original structure in Bommersvik, Sweden at the special convention held there from 16–23 July 1995. In a press release, embargoed until 27 July 1995, the Elected Representatives of Burma issued the following communiqué:\n\nOn September 14, 2012, NCGUB was officially dissolved to aid the reform process in Burma.\n\nSubsequent to the 1995 convention the Elected Representatives of the Union of Burma returned to Bommersvik in 2002. The following two landmark declarations were the product of their deliberations.\n\nIn 1995, during the first convention that lasted from 16–23 July, the Representatives issued the \"Bommersvik Declaration I\" with the following preamble:\n\nIn 2002, during the second convention that lasted from 25 February to 1 March, the Representatives issued the \"Bommersvik Declaration II\" with the following introductory passage:\n\nThe NCGUB Proposed First Draft Constitution was published by the National Council of the Union of Burma (NCUB) in December 1997 with the following preamble:\n\n"}
{"id": "13933230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13933230", "title": "Non-Zionism", "text": "Non-Zionism\n\nNon-Zionism is the political stance of Jews who \"were [or are] willing to help support depoliticized Jewish settlement in Palestine (...) but will not come on aliyah.\"\n\nThe trend began in the United States in the first few decades of the 20th century when \"an increasingly large section of Americanized Jewish opinion began to shift away from anti-Zionism (...) either to pro-Zionism or non-Zionism. (...) The non-Zionists were willing to offer the fledgeling Jewish homeland fiscal and diplomatic counsel, not for their own benefit or spiritual comfort but for those Jews who chose to reside there.\"\n\n\"There is a marked difference between non-Zionism and anti-Zionism. A non-Zionist may challenge the theoretical underpinning of the concept of an 'ingathering of the exiles' in an independent Jewish State. If Jewish, he will not choose to live in Israel, nor will he approve of the notion of other Jews living there (...) but anti-Zionists do not find it sufficient to be dissatisfied with a decision made and implemented a long time ago. They are not content with a critical assessment of the situation confined to an historical (and, accordingly, a theoretical) framework. Not merely do they have an adverse opinion about the establishment of Israel in the past, but they contest the legitimacy of Israel as a State in the present time and the future.\"\n\nNon-Zionism has also been defined in terms of a non-position on Zionism. For example, Anthony Frosh on online Jewish magazine Galus Australis, has defined a non-Zionist Jews as a Jew \"who does not have any particular political relationship (positive or negative) with the State of Israel, or at least little more of a relationship than they would have with some other 3rd party state.\"\n\nGenerally, those groups of Ashkenazi (Western) Haredi Jews who participate in the Israeli government but do not believe in the religious ideology of Zionism are known as \"non-Zionists\". The most prominent non-Zionist Haredi group is Agudath Israel. This is in contrast to the religious Zionist Mizrachi party (which believes the State of Israel to be the beginning of the redemption); and also in contrast to the anti-Zionist Haredi groups, such as Satmar and the Edah Charedis that openly oppose Zionism and have little to no interaction with the State of Israel, and no representation in government. Unlike the older definition, many live in the State of Israel. They tend to be extremely pro-Israel politically, as can be seen in such publications as Mishpacha and Hamodia. Sephardi Haredi Jews may refer to themselves as Zionist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4047804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4047804", "title": "Northern Ireland flags issue", "text": "Northern Ireland flags issue\n\nThe Northern Ireland flags issue is one that divides the population along sectarian lines. Depending on political allegiance, people identify with differing flags and symbols, some of which have, or have had, official status in Northern Ireland.\n\n\nThe Flags and Emblems (Display) Act (Northern Ireland) 1954 prohibited the display of any flag which was \"likely to cause a breach of public order\", and gave the police powers to deal with it. However, it specifically excluded the Union flag from its provisions. In 1964, the Royal Ulster Constabulary moved in to remove an Irish tricolour from the window of an office in Belfast, after Ian Paisley had publicly said that if they did not, he would do so personally. This resulted in serious rioting. The Act was repealed in 1987.\n\nIn some loyalist areas the flying of flags supporting loyalist paramilitaries has proved controversial. Groups like the Ulster Defence Association, Ulster Volunteer Force, Young Citizen Volunteers, Red Hand Commando, and Loyalist Volunteer Force all have their own unique flags and although these flags usually appear alongside murals, they can occasionally be seen flying from lampposts in villages and towns or flying from houses in the run up to the Twelfth.\n\nSome local councils have debated the usage of the Tricolour. In 2002 Belfast City Council displayed the Tricolour along with the Union Flag in the Lord Mayor's parlour during the term of Sinn Féin Lord Mayor Alex Maskey. A different approach was taken in 1997; when the Social Democratic and Labour Party's (SDLP) Alban Maginness was Lord Mayor, neither flag was displayed. In September 2003, Belfast City Council discussed flying the Tricolour alongside the Union Flag on designated occasions.\n\nThe Ulster Banner continues to be used by some local governments, such as the predominantly unionist Castlereagh, which flies it outside its offices.\n\nA decision in December 2012 to fly the Union flag over Belfast City Hall only on certain designated days, instead of all the year round as previously, led to the Belfast City Hall flag protests, which included riots in which police officers were injured.\n\nThe Northern Ireland flags controversy has led to Unicode being unable to release an equivalent country emoji for Northern Ireland, as it has for Scotland, England, Wales, and the Republic of Ireland.\n\nIn 2013, US diplomat Richard Haass chaired talks between the political parties in Northern Ireland dealing with, among other things, the issue of flags. The resulting draft proposals, which were not agreed by the parties, included the idea of a new flag for Northern Ireland, and the possibility of a \"circumscribed role for the sovereign flag of Ireland in conjunction with the Union flag.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55792684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55792684", "title": "People's Party (Serbia, 2017)", "text": "People's Party (Serbia, 2017)\n\nThe People's Party (, НС / \"Narodna stranka, NS\") is a liberal conservative political party in Serbia. It is a centre-right political organization in Serbia, founded after 2017 presidential elections, by Vuk Jeremić. The party currently has three members serving in the National Assembly.\n\nAfter his unsuccessful bid in an attempt to replace Ban Ki-Moon as UN Secretary-General in the end of 2016, he returned to Serbia, where he enjoyed relatively high approval ratings compared to other opposition politicians. He decided to run for president in 2017 presidential election, declining the option to support Saša Janković, who by then managed to gather a number of parties' support. Although many thought that opposition would have better chances against Vučić if united, and considered Janković a better option for a single opposition presidential candidate, Jeremić announced his candidacy nevertheless. He finished fourth, with little less than 6% of the vote. \n\nIn the aftermath of the election, though his results were quite disappointing, he announced he will form a party. He gathered support for such move mainly from conservative intellectuals who were opposing Vučić's government, and were previously tied with DSS (most notably Sanda Rašković-Ivić, a former DSS president). He formed the People's Party in October 2017. The People's Party was able to forgo the usual registration process for new parties when Miroslav Aleksić, a member of the National Assembly, allowed his People's Movement of Serbia to be re-registered and re-constituted under the new party name. Representatives of the People's Party indicated that this removed the threat of the name being stolen during the registration process. \n\nAs of December 2017, there are three members of the People's Party serving in the National Assembly, although they do not serve as a unified parliamentary bloc. Aleksić, who was selected as first vice-president of the People's Party at its founding convention, has served in a parliamentary alliance with Boris Tadić's Social Democratic Party since 2016 and is the deputy leader of the grouping. Rašković Ivić, who was selected as one of five deputy vice-presidents at the same convention, is the current leader of the New Serbia–Movement for Serbia's Salvation group. Dijana Vukomanović, a former member of the Socialist Party of Serbia who now serves on the presidency of the People's Party, is also a member of the New Serbia–Movement for Serbia's Salvation caucus.\n\nAnother member of the National Assembly, Đorđe Vukadinovć is also closely tied to the party, and supported it since its inception. He was elected as part of the same list as Sanda Rašković-Ivić (Dveri-DSS) but later went independent.\n\nDespite competing against each other in the presidential election, Jeremić's party now cooperates closely with the Movement of Free Citizens, a party formed by Janković, after the election.\n\nSince its inception the party has positioned itself as an opposition party to the government, led by Serbian Progressive Party (SNS).\n\nJeremić stated he is a pro-EU politician, but he opposes Serbia joining NATO.\n\nPeople’s party participated in Belgrade Assembly elections through Dragan Đilas list. They won 19%.\n\n"}
{"id": "27100991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27100991", "title": "Period of mobilization for the suppression of Communist rebellion", "text": "Period of mobilization for the suppression of Communist rebellion\n\nPeriod of mobilization for the suppression of Communist rebellion () was a political term used by the government of the Republic of China and Kuomintang party to describe its rule of mainland China from 1947 to 1949, of Taiwan from 1949 to 1987 and of Kinmen, Matsu Islands and Spratly Islands from 1949 to 1991 under martial law. In Taiwan the term \"White Terror\" is often used to describe the era.\n\nIn 1946, the Chinese Civil War between the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) and the Government of the Republic of China had resumed, in response of the war, the first session of the National Assembly convened in 1948 enacted the \"Mobilization for the Suppression of Communist Rebellion Provisional Act\". The Provisional Act is provided to the then President Chiang Kai-shek extended powers to mobilize against the CCP. After the central government of the Republic of China had relocated to Taiwan in 1949, the Provisional Act provided the government ways to suppress its opponents.\n\nThe period was formally ended by President Lee Teng-hui on 1 May 1991, thereby signalling the Republic of China's willingness to abandon unification of China through non-peaceful means.\n\n"}
{"id": "25613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25613", "title": "Racism", "text": "Racism\n\nRacism is the belief in the superiority of one race over another, which often results in discrimination and prejudice towards people based on their race or ethnicity. As of the 2000s, the use of the term \"racism\" does not easily fall under a single definition.\n\nThe ideology underlying racism often includes the idea that humans can be subdivided into distinct groups that are different due to their social behavior and their innate capacities as well as the idea that they can be ranked as inferior or superior. Historical examples of institutional racism include the Holocaust, the apartheid regime in South Africa, slavery and segregation in the United States, and slavery in Latin America. Racism was also an aspect of the social organization of many colonial states and empires.\n\nWhile the concepts of race and ethnicity are considered to be separate in contemporary social science, the two terms have a long history of equivalence in both popular usage and older social science literature. \"Ethnicity\" is often used in a sense close to one traditionally attributed to \"race\": the division of human groups based on qualities assumed to be essential or innate to the group (e.g. shared ancestry or shared behavior). Therefore, \"racism\" and \"racial discrimination\" are often used to describe discrimination on an ethnic or cultural basis, independent of whether these differences are described as racial. According to a United Nations convention on racial discrimination, there is no distinction between the terms \"racial\" and \"ethnic\" discrimination. The UN convention further concludes that superiority based on racial differentiation is scientifically false, morally condemnable, socially unjust and dangerous, and there is no justification for racial discrimination, anywhere, in theory or in practice.\n\nRacist ideology can become manifest in many aspects of social life. Racism can be present in social actions, practices, or political systems (e.g., apartheid) that support the expression of prejudice or aversion in discriminatory practices. Associated social actions may include nativism, xenophobia, otherness, segregation, hierarchical ranking, supremacism, and related social phenomena.\n\nIn the 19th century, many scientists subscribed to the belief that the human population can be divided into races. The term \"racism\" is a noun describing the state of being racist, i.e., subscribing to the belief that the human population can or should be classified into races with differential abilities and dispositions, which in turn may motivate a political ideology in which rights and privileges are differentially distributed based on racial categories. The origin of the root word \"race\" is not clear. Linguists generally agree that it came to the English language from Middle French, but there is no such agreement on how it came into Latin-based languages, generally. A recent proposal is that it derives from the Arabic \"ra's\", which means \"head, beginning, origin\" or the Hebrew \"rosh\", which has a similar meaning. Early race theorists generally held the view that some races were inferior to others and they consequently believed that the differential treatment of races was fully justified. These early theories guided pseudo-scientific research assumptions; the collective endeavors to adequately define and form hypotheses about racial differences are generally termed scientific racism, though this term is a misnomer due to the lack of any actual science backing the claims.\n\nToday, most biologists, anthropologists, and sociologists reject a taxonomy of races in favor of more specific and/or empirically verifiable criteria, such as geography, ethnicity or a history of endogamy. To date, there is little evidence in human genome research which indicates that race can be defined in such a way as to be useful in determining a genetic classification of humans.\n\nAn entry in the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" (2008) simply defines racialism as \"An earlier term than racism, but now largely superseded by it,\" and cites it in a 1902 quote. The revised Oxford English Dictionary cites the shortened term \"racism\" in a quote from the following year, 1903. It was first defined by the Oxford English Dictionary (2nd edition, 1989) as \"[t]he theory that distinctive human characteristics and abilities are determined by race\"; the same dictionary termed \"racism\" a synonym of \"racialism\": \"belief in the superiority of a particular race\". By the end of World War II, \"racism\" had acquired the same supremacist connotations formerly associated with \"racialism\": \"racism\" now implied racial discrimination, racial supremacism and a harmful intent. (The term \"race hatred\" had also been used by sociologist Frederick Hertz in the late 1920s.)\n\nAs its history indicates, the popular use of the word \"racism\" is relatively recent. The word came into widespread usage in the Western world in the 1930s, when it was used to describe the social and political ideology of Nazism, which saw \"race\" as a naturally given political unit. It is commonly agreed that racism existed before the coinage of the word, but there is not a wide agreement on a single definition of what racism is and what it is not. Today, some scholars of racism prefer to use the concept in the plural \"racisms\" in order to emphasize its many different forms that do not easily fall under a single definition and they also argue that different forms of racism have characterized different historical periods and geographical areas. Garner (2009: p. 11) summarizes different existing definitions of racism and identifies three common elements contained in those definitions of racism. First, a historical, hierarchical power relationship between groups; second, a set of ideas (an ideology) about racial differences; and, third, discriminatory actions (practices).\n\nThough many countries around the globe have passed laws related to race and discrimination, the first significant international human rights instrument developed by the United Nations (UN) was the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR). The UDHR was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1948. The UDHR recognizes that if people are to be treated with dignity, they require economic rights, social rights including education, and the rights to cultural and political participation and civil liberty. It further states that everyone is entitled to these rights \"without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status.\"\n\nThe UN does not define \"racism\"; however, it does define \"racial discrimination\": According to the 1965 UN International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,\nthe term \"racial discrimination\" shall mean any distinction, exclusion, restriction, or preference based on race, colour, descent, or national or ethnic origin that has the purpose or effect of nullifying or impairing the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal footing, of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the political, economic, social, cultural or any other field of public life.\nIn their 1978 United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) Declaration on Race and Racial Prejudice (Article 1), the UN states, \"All human beings belong to a single species and are descended from a common stock. They are born equal in dignity and rights and all form an integral part of humanity.\"\n\nThe UN definition of racial discrimination does not make any distinction between discrimination based on ethnicity and race, in part because the distinction between the two has been a matter of debate among academics, including anthropologists. Similarly, in British law the phrase \"racial group\" means \"any group of people who are defined by reference to their race, colour, nationality (including citizenship) or ethnic or national origin\".\n\nIn Norway, the word \"race\" has been removed from national laws concerning discrimination because the use of the phrase is considered problematic and unethical. The Norwegian Anti-Discrimination Act bans discrimination based on ethnicity, national origin, descent and skin color.\n\nSociologists, in general, recognize \"race\" as a social construct. This means that, although the concepts of race and racism are based on observable biological characteristics, any conclusions drawn about race on the basis of those observations are heavily influenced by cultural ideologies. Racism, as an ideology, exists in a society at both the individual and institutional level.\n\nWhile much of the research and work on racism during the last half-century or so has concentrated on \"white racism\" in the Western world, historical accounts of race-based social practices can be found across the globe. Thus, racism can be broadly defined to encompass individual and group prejudices and acts of discrimination that result in material and cultural advantages conferred on a majority or a dominant social group. So-called \"white racism\" focuses on societies in which white populations are the majority or the dominant social group. In studies of these majority white societies, the aggregate of material and cultural advantages is usually termed \"white privilege\".\n\nRace and race relations are prominent areas of study in sociology and economics. Much of the sociological literature focuses on white racism. Some of the earliest sociological works on racism were penned by sociologist W. E. B. Du Bois, the first African American to earn a doctoral degree from Harvard University. Du Bois wrote, \"The problem of the twentieth century is the problem of the color line.\" Wellman (1993) defines racism as \"culturally sanctioned beliefs, which, regardless of intentions involved, defend the advantages whites have because of the subordinated position of racial minorities\". In both sociology and economics, the outcomes of racist actions are often measured by the inequality in income, wealth, net worth, and access to other cultural resources, such as education, between racial groups.\n\nIn sociology and social psychology, racial identity and the acquisition of that identity, is often used as a variable in racism studies. Racial ideologies and racial identity affect individuals' perception of race and discrimination. Cazenave and Maddern (1999) define racism as \"a highly organized system of 'race'-based group privilege that operates at every level of society and is held together by a sophisticated ideology of color/'race' supremacy. Racial centrality (the extent to which a culture recognizes individuals' racial identity) appears to affect the degree of discrimination African American young adults perceive whereas racial ideology may buffer the detrimental emotional effects of that discrimination. Sellers and Shelton (2003) found that a relationship between racial discrimination and emotional distress was moderated by racial ideology and social beliefs.\n\nSome sociologists also argue that, particularly in the West where racism is often negatively sanctioned in society, racism has changed from being a blatant to a more covert expression of racial prejudice. The \"newer\" (more hidden and less easily detectable) forms of racism—which can be considered embedded in social processes and structures—are more difficult to explore as well as challenge. It has been suggested that, while in many countries overt or explicit racism has become increasingly taboo, even among those who display egalitarian explicit attitudes, an implicit or aversive racism is still maintained subconsciously.\n\nThis process has been studied extensively in social psychology as implicit associations and implicit attitudes, a component of implicit cognition. Implicit attitudes are evaluations that occur without conscious awareness towards an attitude object or the self. These evaluations are generally either favorable or unfavorable. They come about from various influences in the individual experience. Implicit attitudes are not consciously identified (or they are inaccurately identified) traces of past experience that mediate favorable or unfavorable feeling, thought, or action towards social objects. These thoughts, feelings or actions have an influence on behavior of which the individual may not be aware.\n\nTherefore, subconscious racism can influence our visual processing and how our minds work when we are subliminally exposed to faces of different colors. In thinking about crime, for example, social psychologist Jennifer L. Eberhardt (2004) of Stanford University holds that, \"blackness is so associated with crime you're ready to pick out these crime objects.\" Such exposures influence our minds and they can cause subconscious racism in our behavior towards other people or even towards objects. Thus, racist thoughts and actions can arise from stereotypes and fears of which we are not aware.\n\nLanguage, linguistics and discourse are active areas of study in the humanities, along with literature and the arts. Discourse analysis seeks to reveal the meaning of race and the actions of racists through careful study of the ways in which these factors of human society are described and discussed in various written and oral works. Van Dijk (1992), for example, examines the different ways in which descriptions of racism and racist actions are depicted by the perpetrators of such actions as well as by their victims. He notes that when descriptions of actions have negative implications for the majority, and especially for white elites, they are often seen as controversial and such controversial interpretations are typically marked with quotation marks or they are greeted with expressions of distance or doubt. The previously cited book, \"The Souls of Black Folk\" by W.E.B. Du Bois, represents early African-American literature that describes the author's experiences with racism when he was traveling in the South as an African American.\n\nMuch American fictional literature has focused on issues of racism and the black \"racial experience\" in the US, including works written by whites such as \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\", \"To Kill a Mockingbird\", and \"Imitation of Life\", or even the non-fiction work \"Black Like Me\". These books, and others like them, feed into what has been called the \"white savior narrative in film\", in which the heroes and heroines are white even though the story is about things that happen to black characters. Textual analysis of such writings can contrast sharply with black authors' descriptions of African Americans and their experiences in US society. African American writers have sometimes been portrayed in African-American studies as retreating from racial issues when they write about \"whiteness\", while others identify this as an African American literary tradition called \"the literature of white estrangement\", part of a multipronged effort to challenge and dismantle white supremacy in the US.\n\nAccording to dictionaries, the word is commonly used to describe prejudice and discrimination based on race.\n\nRacism can also be said to describe a condition in society in which a dominant racial group benefits from the oppression of others, whether that group wants such benefits or not. Foucauldian scholar Ladelle McWhorter in her 2009 book \"Racism and Sexual Oppression in Anglo-America: A Genealogy\" posits modern racism similarly, focusing on the notion of a dominant group, usually whites, vying for racial purity and progress, rather than an overt or obvious ideology focused on the oppression of nonwhites.\n\nIn popular usage, as in some academic usage, little distinction is made between \"racism\" and \"ethnocentrism\". Often, the two are listed together as \"racial and ethnic\" in describing some action or outcome that is associated with prejudice within a majority or dominant group in society. Furthermore, the meaning of the term racism is often conflated with the terms prejudice, bigotry, and discrimination. Racism is a complex concept that can involve each of those, but it cannot be equated with nor is it synonymous with these other terms.\n\nThe term is often used in relation to what is seen as prejudice within a minority or subjugated group, as in the concept of reverse racism. \"Reverse racism\" is a concept often used to describe acts of discrimination or hostility against members of a dominant racial or ethnic group while favoring members of minority groups. This concept has been used especially in the United States in debates over color-conscious policies (such as affirmative action) intended to remedy racial inequalities. Those who campaign for the interests of ethnic minorities commonly reject the concept of reverse racism. Scholars, also, commonly define racism not only in terms of individual prejudice, but also in terms of a power structure that protects the interests of the dominant culture and actively discriminates against ethnic minorities. From this perspective, while members of ethnic minorities may be prejudiced against members of the dominant culture, they lack the political and economic power to actively oppress them, and they are therefore not practicing \"racism\".\n\nThe ideology underlying racism can become manifest in many aspects of social life. Such aspects are described in this section, although the list is not exhaustive.\n\nAversive racism is a form of implicit racism in which a person's unconscious negative evaluations of racial or ethnic minorities are realized by a persistent avoidance of interaction with other racial and ethnic groups. As opposed to traditional, overt racism, which is characterized by overt hatred for and explicit discrimination against racial/ethnic minorities, aversive racism is characterized by more complex, ambivalent expressions and attitudes. Aversive racism is similar in implications to the concept of symbolic or modern racism (described below), which is also a form of implicit, unconscious, or covert attitude which results in unconscious forms of discrimination.\n\nThe term was coined by Joel Kovel to describe the subtle racial behaviors of any ethnic or racial group who rationalize their aversion to a particular group by appeal to rules or stereotypes. People who behave in an aversively racial way may profess egalitarian beliefs, and will often deny their racially motivated behavior; nevertheless they change their behavior when dealing with a member of another race or ethnic group than the one they belong to. The motivation for the change is thought to be implicit or subconscious. Experiments have provided empirical support for the existence of aversive racism. Aversive racism has been shown to have potentially serious implications for decision making in employment, in legal decisions and in helping behavior.\n\nIn relation to racism, Color blindness is the disregard of racial characteristics in social interaction, for example in the rejection of affirmative action, as way to address the results of past patterns of discrimination. Critics of this attitude argue that by refusing to attend to racial disparities, racial color blindness in fact unconsciously perpetuates the patterns that produce racial inequality.\n\nEduardo Bonilla-Silva argues that color blind racism arises from an \"abstract liberalism, biologization of culture, naturalization of racial matters, and minimization of racism\". Color blind practices are \"subtle, institutional, and apparently nonracial\" because race is explicitly ignored in decision making. If race is disregarded in predominately white populations, for example, whiteness becomes the normative standard, whereas people of color are othered, and the racism these individuals experience may be minimized or erased. At an individual level, people with \"color blind prejudice\" reject racist ideology, but also reject systemic policies intended to fix institutional racism.\n\nCultural racism is a term used to describe and explain new racial ideologies and practices that have emerged since World War II. It can be defined as societal beliefs and customs that promote the assumption that the products of a given culture, including the language and traditions of that culture are superior to those of other cultures. It shares a great deal with xenophobia, which is often characterised by fear of, or aggression toward, members of an outgroup by members of an ingroup.\n\nCultural racism exists when there is a widespread acceptance of stereotypes concerning different ethnic or population groups. Where racism can be characterised by the belief that one race is inherently superior to another, cultural racism can be characterised by the belief that one culture is inherently superior to another.\n\nHistorical economic or social disparity is alleged to be a form of discrimination caused by past racism and historical reasons, affecting the present generation through deficits in the formal education and kinds of preparation in previous generations, and through primarily unconscious racist attitudes and actions on members of the general population.\n\nIn 2011, Bank of America agreed to pay $335 million to settle a federal government claim that its mortgage division, Countrywide Financial, discriminated against black and Hispanic homebuyers.\n\nDuring the Spanish colonial period, Spaniards developed a complex caste system based on race, which was used for social control and which also determined a person's importance in society. While many Latin American countries have long since rendered the system officially illegal through legislation, usually at the time of their independence, prejudice based on degrees of perceived racial distance from European ancestry combined with one's socioeconomic status remain, an echo of the colonial caste system.\n\nInstitutional racism (also known as structural racism, state racism or systemic racism) is racial discrimination by governments, corporations, religions, or educational institutions or other large organizations with the power to influence the lives of many individuals. Stokely Carmichael is credited for coining the phrase \"institutional racism\" in the late 1960s. He defined the term as \"the collective failure of an organization to provide an appropriate and professional service to people because of their colour, culture or ethnic origin\".\n\nMaulana Karenga argued that racism constituted the destruction of culture, language, religion, and human possibility and that the effects of racism were \"the morally monstrous destruction of human possibility involved redefining African humanity to the world, poisoning past, present and future relations with others who only know us through this stereotyping and thus damaging the truly human relations among peoples\".\n\nOthering is the term used by some to describe a system of discrimination whereby the characteristics of a group are used to distinguish them as separate from the norm.\n\nOthering plays a fundamental role in the history and continuation of racism. To objectify a culture as something different, exotic or underdeveloped is to generalize that it is not like 'normal' society. Europe's colonial attitude towards the Orient exemplifies this as it was thought that the East was the opposite of the West; feminine where the West was masculine, weak where the West was strong and traditional where the West was progressive. By making these generalizations and othering the East, Europe was simultaneously defining herself as the norm, further entrenching the gap.\n\nMuch of the process of othering relies on imagined difference, or the expectation of difference. Spatial difference can be enough to conclude that \"we\" are \"here\" and the \"others\" are over \"there\". Imagined differences serve to categorize people into groups and assign them characteristics that suit the imaginer's expectations.\n\nRacial discrimination refers to discrimination against someone on the basis of their race.\n\nRacial segregation is the separation of humans into socially-constructed racial groups in daily life. It may apply to activities such as eating in a restaurant, drinking from a water fountain, using a bath room, attending school, going to the movies, or in the rental or purchase of a home. Segregation is generally outlawed, but may exist through social norms, even when there is no strong individual preference for it, as suggested by Thomas Schelling's models of segregation and subsequent work.\n\nCenturies of European colonialism in the Americas, Africa and Asia were often justified by white supremacist attitudes. During the early 20th century, the phrase \"The White Man's Burden\" was widely used to justify an imperialist policy as a noble enterprise. A justification for the policy of conquest and subjugation of Native Americans emanated from the stereotyped perceptions of the indigenous people as \"merciless Indian savages\" (as described in the United States Declaration of Independence). In an 1890 article about colonial expansion onto Native American land, author L. Frank Baum wrote: \"The Whites, by law of conquest, by justice of civilization, are masters of the American continent, and the best safety of the frontier settlements will be secured by the total annihilation of the few remaining Indians.\" Attitudes of black supremacy, Arab supremacy, and East Asian supremacy also exist.\n\nSome scholars argue that in the US earlier violent and aggressive forms of racism have evolved into a more subtle form of prejudice in the late 20th century. This new form of racism is sometimes referred to as \"modern racism\" and it is characterized by outwardly acting unprejudiced while inwardly maintaining prejudiced attitudes, displaying subtle prejudiced behaviors such as actions informed by attributing qualities to others based on racial stereotypes, and evaluating the same behavior differently based on the race of the person being evaluated. This view is based on studies of prejudice and discriminatory behavior, where some people will act ambivalently towards black people, with positive reactions in certain, more public contexts, but more negative views and expressions in more private contexts. This ambivalence may also be visible for example in hiring decisions where job candidates that are otherwise positively evaluated may be unconsciously disfavored by employers in the final decision because of their race. Some scholars consider modern racism to be characterized by an explicit rejection of stereotypes, combined with resistance to changing structures of discrimination for reasons that are ostensibly non-racial, an ideology that considers opportunity at a purely individual basis denying the relevance of race in determining individual opportunities and the exhibition of indirect forms of micro-aggression toward and/or avoidance of people of other races.\n\nRecent research has shown that individuals who consciously claim to reject racism may still exhibit race-based subconscious biases in their decision-making processes. While such \"subconscious racial biases\" do not fully fit the definition of racism, their impact can be similar, though typically less pronounced, not being explicit, conscious or deliberate.\n\nIn 1919, a proposal to include a racial equality provision in the Covenant of the League of Nations was supported by a majority, but not adopted in the Paris Peace Conference, 1919. In 1943, Japan and its allies declared work for the abolition of racial discrimination to be their aim at the Greater East Asia Conference. Article 1 of the 1945 UN Charter includes \"promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race\" as UN purpose.\n\nIn 1950, UNESCO suggested in \"The Race Question\"—a statement signed by 21 scholars such as Ashley Montagu, Claude Lévi-Strauss, Gunnar Myrdal, Julian Huxley, etc.—to \"drop the term \"race\" altogether and instead speak of ethnic groups\". The statement condemned scientific racism theories that had played a role in the Holocaust. It aimed both at debunking scientific racist theories, by popularizing modern knowledge concerning \"the race question,\" and morally condemned racism as contrary to the philosophy of the Enlightenment and its assumption of equal rights for all. Along with Myrdal's \"\" (1944), \"The Race Question\" influenced the 1954 U.S. Supreme Court desegregation decision in \"Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka\". Also in 1950, the European Convention on Human Rights was adopted, widely used on racial discrimination issues.\n\nThe United Nations use the definition of racial discrimination laid out in the \"International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination\", adopted in 1966:\n\n... any distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on race, color, descent, or national or ethnic origin that has the purpose or effect of nullifying or impairing the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal footing, of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the political, economic, social, cultural or any other field of public life. (Part 1 of Article 1 of the U.N. International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination)\nIn 2001, the European Union explicitly banned racism, along with many other forms of social discrimination, in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, the legal effect of which, if any, would necessarily be limited to Institutions of the European Union: \"Article 21 of the charter prohibits discrimination on any ground such as race, color, ethnic or social origin, genetic features, language, religion or belief, political or any other opinion, membership of a national minority, property, disability, age or sexual orientation and also discrimination on the grounds of nationality.\"\n\nRacism existed during the 19th century as \"scientific racism\", which attempted to provide a racial classification of humanity. In 1775 Johann Blumenbach divided the world's population into five groups according to skin color (Caucasians, Mongols, etc.), positing the view that the non-caucasians had arisen through a process of degeneration. Another early view in scientific racism was the polygenist view, which held that the different races had been separately created. Polygenist Christoph Meiners for example, split mankind into two divisions which he labeled the \"beautiful White race\" and the \"ugly Black race\". In Meiners' book, \"The Outline of History of Mankind\", he claimed that a main characteristic of race is either beauty or ugliness. He viewed only the white race as beautiful. He considered ugly races to be inferior, immoral and animal-like.\n\nAnders Retzius demonstrated that neither Europeans nor others are one \"pure race\", but of mixed origins. While discredited, derivations of Blumenbach's taxonomy are still widely used for the classification of the population in the United States. , while strongly emphasizing that all humans today are of mixed origins, in 1907 claimed that the origins of human differences must be traced extraordinarily far back in time, and conjectured that the \"purest race\" today would be the Australian Aboriginals.\n\nScientific racism fell strongly out of favor in the early 20th Century, but the origins of fundamental human and societal differences are still researched within academia, in fields such as human genetics including paleogenetics, social anthropology, comparative politics, history of religions, history of ideas, prehistory, history, ethics, and psychiatry. There is widespread rejection of any methodology based on anything similar to Blumenbach's races. It is more unclear to which extent and when ethnic and national stereotypes are accepted.\n\nAlthough after World War II and the Holocaust, racist ideologies were discredited on ethical, political and scientific grounds, racism and racial discrimination have remained widespread around the world. From time to time when there is a revival of social and political tensions, new works are published which repeat past and discredited racial views such as J R Baker's 'Race'. Because of the social disapproval of explicit expressions of racism, contemporary authors may achieve a similar effect by insinuating subtle unstated stereotypes in their work as in Gladwell's 'The Tipping Point', a tactic President Obama called 'dog whistle racism'.\n\nDu Bois observed that it is not so much \"race\" that we think about, but culture: \"... a common history, common laws and religion, similar habits of thought and a conscious striving together for certain ideals of life\". Late 19th century nationalists were the first to embrace contemporary discourses on \"race\", ethnicity, and \"survival of the fittest\" to shape new nationalist doctrines. Ultimately, race came to represent not only the most important traits of the human body, but was also regarded as decisively shaping the character and personality of the nation. According to this view, culture is the physical manifestation created by ethnic groupings, as such fully determined by racial characteristics. Culture and race became considered intertwined and dependent upon each other, sometimes even to the extent of including nationality or language to the set of definition. Pureness of race tended to be related to rather superficial characteristics that were easily addressed and advertised, such as blondness. Racial qualities tended to be related to nationality and language rather than the actual geographic distribution of racial characteristics. In the case of Nordicism, the denomination \"Germanic\" was equivalent to superiority of race.\n\nBolstered by some nationalist and ethnocentric values and achievements of choice, this concept of racial superiority evolved to distinguish from other cultures that were considered inferior or impure. This emphasis on culture corresponds to the modern mainstream definition of racism: \"Racism does not originate from the existence of 'races'. It \"creates\" them through a process of social division into categories: anybody can be racialised, independently of their somatic, cultural, religious differences.\"\n\nThis definition explicitly ignores the biological concept of race, still subject to scientific debate. In the words of David C. Rowe \"A racial concept, although sometimes in the guise of another name, will remain in use in biology and in other fields because scientists, as well as lay persons, are fascinated by human diversity, some of which is captured by race.\"\n\nRacial prejudice became subject to international legislation. For instance, the Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on November 20, 1963, address racial prejudice explicitly next to discrimination for reasons of race, colour or ethnic origin (Article I).\n\nDebates over the origins of racism often suffer from a lack of clarity over the term. Many use the term \"racism\" to refer to more general phenomena, such as xenophobia and ethnocentrism, although scholars attempt to clearly distinguish those phenomena from racism as an ideology or from scientific racism, which has little to do with ordinary xenophobia. Others conflate recent forms of racism with earlier forms of ethnic and national conflict. In most cases, ethno-national conflict seems to owe itself to conflict over land and strategic resources. In some cases, ethnicity and nationalism were harnessed in order to rally combatants in wars between great religious empires (for example, the Muslim Turks and the Catholic Austro-Hungarians).\n\nNotions of race and racism have often played central roles in ethnic conflicts. Throughout history, when an adversary is identified as \"other\" based on notions of race or ethnicity (in particular when \"other\" is construed to mean \"inferior\"), the means employed by the self-presumed \"superior\" party to appropriate territory, human chattel, or material wealth often have been more ruthless, more brutal, and less constrained by moral or ethical considerations. According to historian Daniel Richter, Pontiac's Rebellion saw the emergence on both sides of the conflict of \"the novel idea that all Native people were 'Indians,' that all Euro-Americans were 'Whites,' and that all on one side must unite to destroy the other.\" Basil Davidson states in his documentary, \"Africa: Different but Equal\", that racism, in fact, only just recently surfaced—as late as the 19th century, due to the need for a justification for slavery in the Americas.\n\nHistorically, racism was a major driving force behind the Transatlantic slave trade. It was also a major force behind racial segregation, especially in the United States in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries and South Africa under apartheid; 19th and 20th century racism in the Western world is particularly well documented and constitutes a reference point in studies and discourses about racism. Racism has played a role in genocides such as the Armenian genocide, and The Holocaust, and colonial projects like the European colonization of the Americas, Africa, and Asia. Indigenous peoples have been –and are– often subject to racist attitudes. Practices and ideologies of racism are condemned by the United Nations in the Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nAfter the Napoleonic Wars, Europe was confronted with the new \"nationalities question,\" leading to reconfigurations of the European map, on which the frontiers between the states had been delineated during the 1648 Peace of Westphalia. Nationalism had made its first appearance with the invention of the \"levée en masse\" by the French Revolutionaries, thus inventing mass conscription in order to be able to defend the newly founded Republic against the \"Ancien Régime\" order represented by the European monarchies. This led to the French Revolutionary Wars (1792–1802) and then to the conquests of Napoleon, and to the subsequent European-wide debates on the concepts and realities of nations, and in particular of nation-states. The Westphalia Treaty had divided Europe into various empires and kingdoms (Ottoman Empire, Holy Roman Empire, Swedish Empire, Kingdom of France, etc.), and for centuries wars were waged between princes (\"Kabinettskriege\" in German).\n\nModern nation-states appeared in the wake of the French Revolution, with the formation of patriotic sentiments for the first time in Spain during the Peninsula War (1808–1813, known in Spain as the Independence War). Despite the restoration of the previous order with the 1815 Congress of Vienna, the \"nationalities question\" became the main problem of Europe during the Industrial Era, leading in particular to the 1848 Revolutions, the Italian unification completed during the 1871 Franco-Prussian War, which itself culminated in the proclamation of the German Empire in the Hall of Mirrors in the Palace of Versailles, thus achieving the German unification.\n\nMeanwhile, the Ottoman Empire, the \"sick man of Europe\", was confronted with endless nationalist movements, which, along with the dissolving of the Austrian-Hungarian Empire, would lead to the creation after World War I of the various nation-states of the Balkans, with \"national minorities\" in their borders.\nEthnic nationalism, which advocated the belief in a hereditary membership of the nation, made its appearance in the historical context surrounding the creation of the modern nation-states.\n\nOne of its main influences was the Romantic nationalist movement at the turn of the 19th century, represented by figures such as Johann Herder (1744–1803), Johan Fichte (1762–1814) in the \"Addresses to the German Nation\" (1808), Friedrich Hegel (1770–1831), or also, in France, Jules Michelet (1798–1874). It was opposed to liberal nationalism, represented by authors such as Ernest Renan (1823–1892), who conceived of the nation as a community, which, instead of being based on the \"Volk\" ethnic group and on a specific, common language, was founded on the subjective will to live together (\"the nation is a daily plebiscite\", 1882) or also John Stuart Mill (1806–1873).\nEthnic nationalism blended with scientific racist discourses, as well as with \"continental imperialist\" (Hannah Arendt, 1951) discourses, for example in the pan-Germanism discourses, which postulated the racial superiority of the German \"Volk\" (people/folk). The Pan-German League (\"Alldeutscher Verband\"), created in 1891, promoted German imperialism, \"racial hygiene\" and was opposed to intermarriage with Jews. Another popular current, the \"Völkisch movement\", was also an important proponent of the German ethnic nationalist discourse, and it combined Pan-Germanism with modern racial antisemitism. Members of the Völkisch movement, in particular the Thule Society, would participate in the founding of the German Workers' Party (DAP) in Munich in 1918, the predecessor of the National Socialist German Workers' Party (NSDAP; commonly known in English as the Nazi party). Pan-Germanism played a decisive role in the interwar period of the 1920s–1930s.\n\nThese currents began to associate the idea of the nation with the biological concept of a \"master race\" (often the \"Aryan race\" or the \"Nordic race\") issued from the scientific racist discourse. They conflated nationalities with ethnic groups, called \"races\", in a radical distinction from previous racial discourses that posited the existence of a \"race struggle\" inside the nation and the state itself. Furthermore, they believed that political boundaries should mirror these alleged racial and ethnic groups, thus justifying ethnic cleansing in order to achieve \"racial purity\" and also to achieve ethnic homogeneity in the nation-state.\n\nSuch racist discourses, combined with nationalism, were not, however, limited to pan-Germanism. In France, the transition from Republican, liberal nationalism, to ethnic nationalism, which made nationalism a characteristic of far-right movements in France, took place during the Dreyfus Affair at the end of the 19th century. During several years, a nationwide crisis affected French society, concerning the alleged treason of Alfred Dreyfus, a French Jewish military officer. The country polarized itself into two opposite camps, one represented by Émile Zola, who wrote \"J'Accuse…!\" in defense of Alfred Dreyfus, and the other represented by the nationalist poet, Maurice Barrès (1862–1923), one of the founders of the ethnic nationalist discourse in France. At the same time, Charles Maurras (1868–1952), founder of the monarchist \"Action française\" movement, theorized the \"anti-France,\" composed of the \"four confederate states of Protestants, Jews, Freemasons and foreigners\" (his actual word for the latter being the pejorative \"métèques\"). Indeed, to him the first three were all \"internal foreigners\", who threatened the ethnic unity of the French people.\n\nBernard Lewis has cited the Greek philosopher Aristotle who, in his discussion of slavery, stated that while Greeks are free by nature, 'barbarians' (non-Greeks) are slaves by nature, in that it is in their nature to be more willing to submit to a despotic government. Though Aristotle does not specify any particular races, he argues that people from nations outside Greece are more prone to the burden of slavery than those from Greece. While Aristotle makes remarks about the most natural slaves being those with strong bodies and slave souls (unfit for rule, unintelligent) which would seem to imply a physical basis for discrimination, he also explicitly states that the right kind of souls and bodies don't always go together, implying that the greatest determinate for inferiority and natural slaves versus natural masters is the soul, not the body. This proto-racism is seen as an important precursor to modern racism by classicist Benjamin Isaac.\n\nSuch proto-racism and ethnocentrism must be looked at within context, because a modern understanding of racism based on hereditary inferiority (modern racism based on: eugenics and scientific racism) was not yet developed and it is unclear whether Aristotle believed the natural inferiority of Barbarians was caused by environment and climate (like many of his contemporaries) or by birth.\n\nHistorian Dante A. Puzzo, in his discussion of Aristotle, racism, and the ancient world writes that:\n\nRacism rests on two basic assumptions: that a correlation exists between physical characteristics and moral qualities; that mankind is divisible into superior and inferior stocks. Racism, thus defined, is a modern conception, for prior to the XVIth century there was virtually nothing in the life and thought of the West that can be described as racist. To prevent misunderstanding a clear distinction must be made between racism and ethnocentrism ... The Ancient Hebrews, in referring to all who were not Hebrews as Gentiles, were indulging in ethnocentrism, not in racism. ... So it was with the Hellenes who denominated all non-Hellenes—whether the wild Scythians or the Egyptians whom they acknowledged as their mentors in the arts of civilization—Barbarians, the term denoting that which was strange or foreign.\n\nBernard Lewis has also cited historians and geographers of the Middle East and North Africa region, including Al-Muqaddasi, Al-Jahiz, Al-Masudi, Abu Rayhan Biruni, Nasir al-Din al-Tusi, and Ibn Qutaybah. Though the Qur'an expresses no racial prejudice, Lewis argues that ethnocentric prejudice later developed among Arabs, for a variety of reasons: their extensive conquests and slave trade; the influence of Aristotelian ideas regarding slavery, which some Muslim philosophers directed towards Zanj (Bantu) and Turkic peoples; and the influence of Judeo-Christian ideas regarding divisions among humankind. The Afro-Arab author Al-Jahiz, himself having a Zanj grandfather, wrote a book entitled \"Superiority of the Blacks to the Whites\", and explained why the Zanj were black in terms of environmental determinism in the \"On the Zanj\" chapter of \"The Essays\". By the 14th century, a significant number of slaves came from sub-Saharan Africa; Lewis argues that this led to the likes of Egyptian historian Al-Abshibi (1388–1446) writing: \"It is said that when the [black] slave is sated, he fornicates, when he is hungry, he steals.\" According to Lewis, the 14th-century Tunisian scholar Ibn Khaldun also wrote:\n\n...beyond [known peoples of black West Africa] to the south there is no civilization in the proper sense. There are only humans who are closer to dumb animals than to rational beings. They live in thickets and caves, and eat herbs and unprepared grain. They frequently eat each other. They cannot be considered human beings. Therefore, the Negro nations are, as a rule, submissive to slavery, because (Negroes) have little that is (essentially) human and possess attributes that are quite similar to those of dumb animals, as we have stated.\n\nHowever, according to Wesleyan University professor Abdelmajid Hannoum, such attitudes were not prevalent until the 18th and 19th centuries. He argues that some accounts of Arabic texts, such as those of Ibn Khaldun, were mistranslations by French Orientalists projecting racist and colonialist views of the 19th century into their translations of medieval Arabic writings. James E. Lindsay also argues that the concept of an Arab identity itself did not exist until modern times.\n\nThe Umayyad Caliphate invaded Hispania, with Muslim Berber invaders overthrowing the previous Visigothic rulers and creating Al-Andalus, which contributed to the Golden age of Jewish culture, lasting for six centuries. It was followed by the centuries-long \"Reconquista\", terminated under the Catholic monarchs Ferdinand V and Isabella I. The legacy Catholic Spaniards then formulated the \"Cleanliness of blood\" doctrine. It was during this time in history that the Western concept of aristocratic \"blue blood\" emerged in a racialized, religious and feudal context, so as to stem the upward social mobility of the converted New Christians. Robert Lacey explains:\n\nIt was the Spaniards who gave the world the notion that an aristocrat's blood is not red but blue. The Spanish nobility started taking shape around the ninth century in classic military fashion, occupying land as warriors on horseback. They were to continue the process for more than five hundred years, clawing back sections of the peninsula from its Moorish occupiers, and a nobleman demonstrated his pedigree by holding up his sword arm to display the filigree of blue-blooded veins beneath his pale skin—proof that his birth had not been contaminated by the dark-skinned enemy. Sangre azul, blue blood, was thus a euphemism for being a white man—Spain's own particular reminder that the refined footsteps of the aristocracy through history carry the rather less refined spoor of racism.\nFollowing the expulsion of the Arabic Moors and most of the Sephardic Jews from the Iberian peninsula, the remaining Jews and Muslims were forced to convert to Roman Catholicism, becoming \"New Christians\", who were sometimes discriminated against by the \"Old Christians\" in some cities (e.g. Toledo), despite condemnations by the Church and the State, which both welcomed the new flock. The Inquisition was carried out by members of the Dominican Order in order to weed out the converts who still practiced Judaism and Islam in secret. The system and ideology of the \"limpieza de sangre\" ostracized false Christian converts from society in order to protect it against treason. The remnants of such legislation persevered into the 19th century in military contexts.\n\nIn Portugal, the legal distinction between New and Old Christian was only ended through a legal decree issued by the Marquis of Pombal in 1772, almost three centuries after the implementation of the racist discrimination. The \"limpieza de sangre\" legislation was common also during the colonization of the Americas, where it led to the racial and feudal separation of peoples and social strata in the colonies. It was however often ignored in practice, as the new colonies needed skilled people.\n\nAt the end of the Renaissance, the Valladolid debate (1550–1551) concerning the treatment of natives of the \"New World\" opposed the Dominican friar and Bishop of Chiapas Bartolomé de Las Casas to another Dominican and Humanist philosopher Juan Ginés de Sepúlveda. The latter argued that the Indians practiced human sacrifice of innocents, cannibalism, and other such \"crimes against nature\" were unacceptable and should be suppressed by any means possible including war, thus reducing them to slavery or serfdom was in accordance with Catholic theology and natural law. To the contrary, Bartolomé de Las Casas argued that the Amerindians were free men in the natural order and deserved the same treatment as others, according to Catholic theology. It was one of the many controversies concerning racism, slavery, religion, and European morality that would arise in the following centuries and which resulted in the legislation protecting the natives. The marriage between Luisa de Abrego, a free black domestic servant from Seville and Miguel Rodríguez, a white segovian conquistador in 1565 in St. Augustine (Spanish Florida), is the first known and recorded Christian marriage anywhere in the continental United States.\n\nAlthough antisemitism has a long history, related to Christianity and e.g. native Egyptian or Greek religions (anti-Judaism), racism itself is sometimes described as a \"modern\" phenomenon. In the view of the French philosopher and historian Michel Foucault, the first formulation of racism emerged in the Early Modern period as the \"discourse of race struggle\", a historical and political discourse, which Foucault opposed to the philosophical and juridical discourse of sovereignty. On the other hand, e.g. Chinese self-identification as a \"yellow race\" predated such European racial concepts.\n\nThis European analysis, which first appeared in Great Britain, was then carried on in France by such people as Boulainvilliers, Nicolas Fréret, and then, during the 1789 French Revolution, Sieyès, and afterward Augustin Thierry and Cournot. Boulainvilliers, who created the matrix of such racist discourse in medieval France, conceived of the \"race\" as being something closer to the sense of a \"nation\", that is, in his time, the \"race\" meant the \"people\".\n\nHe conceived of France as being divided between various nations—the unified nation-state is an anachronism here—which themselves formed different \"races\". Boulainvilliers opposed the absolute monarchy, which tried to bypass the aristocracy by establishing a direct relationship to the Third Estate. Thus, he developed the theory that the French aristocrats were the descendants of foreign invaders, whom he called the \"Franks\", while according to him, the Third Estate constituted the autochthonous, vanquished Gallo-Romans, who were dominated by the Frankish aristocracy as a consequence of the right of conquest. Early modern racism was opposed to nationalism and the nation-state: the Comte de Montlosier, in exile during the French Revolution, who borrowed Boulainvilliers' discourse on the \"Nordic race\" as being the French aristocracy that invaded the plebeian \"Gauls\", thus showed his contempt for the Third Estate, calling it \"this new people born of slaves ... mixture of all races and of all times\".\n\nWhile 19th-century racism became closely intertwined with nationalism, leading to the ethnic nationalist discourse that identified the \"race\" with the \"folk\", leading to such movements as pan-Germanism, pan-Turkism, pan-Arabism, and pan-Slavism, medieval racism precisely divided the nation into various non-biological \"races\", which were thought to be the consequence of historical conquests and social conflicts. Michel Foucault traced the genealogy of modern racism to this medieval \"historical and political discourse of race struggle\". According to him, it divided itself in the 19th century according to two rival lines: on one hand, it was incorporated by racists, biologists and eugenicists, who gave it the modern sense of \"race\" and, even more, transformed this popular discourse into a \"state racism\" (e.g., Nazism). On the other hand, Marxism also seized this discourse founded on the assumption of a political struggle that provided the real engine of history and continued to act underneath the apparent peace. Thus, Marxists transformed the essentialist notion of \"race\" into the historical notion of \"class struggle\", defined by socially structured positions: capitalist or proletarian. In \"The Will to Knowledge\" (1976), Foucault analyzed another opponent of the \"race struggle\" discourse: Sigmund Freud's psychoanalysis, which opposed the concept of \"blood heredity\", prevalent in the 19th century racist discourse.\n\nAuthors such as Hannah Arendt, in her 1951 book \"The Origins of Totalitarianism\", have said that the racist ideology (\"popular racism\") which developed at the end of the 19th century helped legitimize the imperialist conquests of foreign territories and the atrocities that sometimes accompanied them (such as the Herero and Namaqua Genocide of 1904–1907 or the Armenian Genocide of 1915–1917). Rudyard Kipling's poem \"The White Man's Burden\" (1899) is one of the more famous illustrations of the belief in the inherent superiority of the European culture over the rest of the world, though it is also thought to be a satirical appraisal of such imperialism. Racist ideology thus helped legitimize the conquest and incorporation of foreign territories into an empire, which were regarded as a humanitarian obligation partially as a result of these racist beliefs.\n\nHowever, during the 19th century, Western European colonial powers were involved in the suppression of the Arab slave trade in Africa, as well as in the suppression of the slave trade in West Africa. Some Europeans during the time period objected to injustices that occurred in some colonies and lobbied on behalf of aboriginal peoples. Thus, when the Hottentot Venus was displayed in England in the beginning of the 19th century, the African Association publicly opposed itself to the exhibition. The same year that Kipling published his poem, Joseph Conrad published \"Heart of Darkness\" (1899), a clear criticism of the Congo Free State owned by Leopold II of Belgium.\n\nExamples of racial theories used include the creation of the Hamitic ethno-linguistic group during the European exploration of Africa. It was then restricted by Karl Friedrich Lepsius (1810–1877) to non-Semitic Afro-Asiatic languages.\n\nThe term \"Hamite\" was applied to different populations within North Africa, mainly comprising Ethiopians, Eritreans, Somalis, Berbers, and the ancient Egyptians. Hamites were regarded as Caucasoid peoples who probably originated in either Arabia or Asia on the basis of their cultural, physical and linguistic similarities with the peoples of those areas. Europeans considered Hamites to be more civilized than Sub-Saharan Africans, and more akin to themselves and Semitic peoples. In the first two-thirds of the 20th century, the Hamitic race was, in fact, considered one of the branches of the Caucasian race, along with the Indo-Europeans, Semites, and the Mediterranean race.\n\nHowever, the Hamitic peoples themselves were often deemed to have failed as rulers, which was usually ascribed to interbreeding with Negroes. In the mid-20th century, the German scholar Carl Meinhof (1857–1944) claimed that the Bantu race was formed by a merger of Hamitic and Negro races. The Hottentots (Nama or Khoi) were formed by the merger of Hamitic and Bushmen (San) races—both being termed nowadays as Khoisan peoples.\nIn the United States in the early 19th century, the American Colonization Society was established as the primary vehicle for proposals to return black Americans to greater freedom and equality in Africa. The colonization effort resulted from a mixture of motives with its founder Henry Clay stating; \"unconquerable prejudice resulting from their color, they never could amalgamate with the free whites of this country. It was desirable, therefore, as it respected them, and the residue of the population of the country, to drain them off\". Racism spread throughout the New World in the late 19th century and early 20th century. Whitecapping, which started in Indiana in the late 19th century, soon spread throughout all of North America, causing many African laborers to flee from the land they worked on. In the US during the 1860s, racist posters were used during election campaigns. In one of these racist posters (see above), a black man is depicted lounging idly in the foreground as one white man ploughs his field and another chops wood. Accompanying labels are: \"In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat thy bread,\" and \"The white man must work to keep his children and pay his taxes.\" The black man wonders, \"Whar is de use for me to work as long as dey make dese appropriations.\" Above in a cloud is an image of the \"Freedman's Bureau! Negro Estimate of Freedom!\" The bureau is pictured as a large domed building resembling the U.S. Capitol and is inscribed \"Freedom and No Work.\" Its columns and walls are labeled, \"Candy,\" \"Rum, Gin, Whiskey,\" \"Sugar Plums,\" \"Indolence,\" \"White Women,\" \"Apathy,\" \"White Sugar,\" \"Idleness,\" and so on.\n\nOn June 5, 1873, Sir Francis Galton, distinguished English explorer and cousin of Charles Darwin, wrote in a letter to \"The Times\":\n\nThe Nazi party, which seized power in the 1933 German elections and maintained a dictatorship over much of Europe until the End of World War II on the European continent, deemed the Germans to be part of an Aryan \"master race\" (\"Herrenvolk\"), who therefore had the right to expand their territory and enslave or kill members of other races deemed inferior.\n\nThe racial ideology conceived by the Nazis graded humans on a scale of pure Aryan to non-Aryan, with the latter viewed as subhuman. At the top of the scale of pure Aryans were Germans and other Germanic peoples including the Dutch, Scandinavians, and the English as well as other peoples such as some northern Italians and the French who were said to have a suitable admixture of Germanic blood. Nazi policies labeled Romani people, people of color and Slavs (mainly Poles, Serbs, Russians, Belarusians, Ukrainians and Czechs) as inferior non-Aryan subhumans. Jews were at the bottom of the hierarchy, considered inhuman and thus unworthy of life. In accordance with Nazi racial ideology, approximately six million Jews were killed in the Holocaust. 2.5 million ethnic Poles, 0.5 million ethnic Serbs and 0.22–0.5 million Romani were killed by the regime and its collaborators.\n\nThe Nazis considered most Slavs to be Non-Aryan \"Untermenschen\". The Nazi Party's chief racial theorist Alfred Rosenberg adopted the term from Klansman Lothrop Stoddard's 1922 book \"The Revolt Against Civilization: The Menace of the Under-man\". Slavic nations such as the Slovaks, Bulgarians and Croats who collaborated with Nazi Germany were perceived as ethnically superior to other Slavs, mostly due to pseudoscientific theories about these nations having a considerable admixture of Germanic blood. In the secret plan Generalplan Ost (\"Master Plan East\") the Nazis resolved to expel, enslave, or exterminate most Slavic people to provide \"living space\" for Germans, however Nazi policy towards Slavs changed during World War II due to manpower shortages which necessitated limited Slavic participation in the Waffen-SS. Significant war crimes were committed against Slavs, particularly Poles, and Soviet POWs had a far higher mortality rate than their American and British counterparts due to deliberate neglect and mistreatment. Between June 1941 and January 1942, the Nazis killed an estimated 2.8 million Red Army POWs, whom they viewed as \"subhuman\".\n\nGerman praise for America's institutional racism was continuous throughout the early 1930s, and Nazi lawyers were advocates of the use of American models. Race based U.S. citizenship laws and anti-miscegenation laws (no race mixing) directly inspired the Nazi's two principal Nuremberg racial laws—the Citizenship Law and the Blood Law. Hitler's 1925 memoir \"Mein Kampf\" was full of admiration for America's treatment of \"coloreds\". Nazi expansion eastward was accompanied with invocation of America's colonial expansion westward, with the accompanying actions toward the Native Americans. In 1928, Hitler praised Americans for having \"gunned down the millions of Redskins to a few hundred thousand, and now keeps the modest remnant under observation in a cage\". On Nazi Germany's expansion eastward, in 1941 Hitler stated, \"Our Mississippi [the line beyond which Thomas Jefferson wanted all Indians expelled] must be the Volga.\"\nWhite supremacy was dominant in the U.S. up to the civil rights movement. On the U.S. immigration laws prior to 1965, sociologist Stephen Klineberg cited the law as clearly declaring \"that Northern Europeans are a superior subspecies of the white race.\" While anti-Asian racism was embedded in U.S. politics and culture in the early 20th century, Indians were also racialized for their anticolonialism, with U.S. officials, casting them as a \"Hindu\" menace, pushing for Western imperial expansion abroad. The Naturalization Act of 1790 limited U.S. citizenship to whites only, and in the 1923 case, \"United States v. Bhagat Singh Thind\", the Supreme Court ruled that high caste Hindus were not \"white persons\" and were therefore racially ineligible for naturalized citizenship. It was after the Luce–Celler Act of 1946 that a quota of 100 Indians per year could immigrate to the U.S. and become citizens. The Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965 dramatically opened entry to the U.S. to immigrants other than traditional Northern European and Germanic groups, and as a result would significantly alter the demographic mix in the U.S.\n\nSerious race riots in Durban between Indians and Zulus erupted in 1949. Ne Win's rise to power in Burma in 1962 and his relentless persecution of \"resident aliens\" led to an exodus of some 300,000 Burmese Indians. They migrated to escape racial discrimination and wholesale nationalisation of private enterprise a few years later in 1964. The Zanzibar Revolution of January 12, 1964 put an end to the local Arab dynasty. Thousands of Arabs and Indians in Zanzibar were massacred in riots, and thousands more were detained or fled the island. In August 1972, Ugandan President Idi Amin started the expropriation of properties owned by Asians and Europeans. In the same year, Amin ethnically cleansed Uganda's Asians giving them 90 days to leave the country.\nShortly after World War II the South African National Party took control of the government in South Africa. Between 1948 and 1994, the Apartheid regime took place. This regime based its ideology on the racial separation of whites and non-whites including the unequal rights of non-whites. Several protests and violence occurred during the struggle against Apartheid, the most famous of these include the Sharpeville Massacre in 1960, the Soweto uprising in 1976, the Church Street bombing of 1983 and the Cape Town peace march of 1989.\n\nDuring the Congo Civil War (1998–2003), pygmies were hunted down like game animals and eaten. Both sides in the war regarded them as \"subhuman\" and some say their flesh can confer magical powers. UN human rights activists reported in 2003 that rebels had carried out acts of cannibalism. Sinafasi Makelo, a representative of the Mbuti pygmies, has asked the UN Security Council to recognise cannibalism as both a crime against humanity and an act of genocide. A report released by the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination condemns Botswana's treatment of the 'Bushmen' as racist. In 2008, the tribunal of the 15-nation Southern African Development Community (SADC) accused Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe of having a racist attitude towards white people.\n\nThe mass demonstrations and riots against African students in Nanjing, China, lasted from December 1988 to January 1989. Bar owners in central Beijing had been forced by the police \"not to serve black people or Mongolians\" during the 2008 Summer Olympics, as the police associated these ethnic groups with illegal prostitution and drug trafficking. In November 2009, British newspaper \"The Guardian\" reported that Lou Jing, of mixed Chinese and African parentage, had emerged as the most famous talent show contestant in China and has become the subject of intense debate because of her skin color. Her attention in the media opened serious debates about racism in China and racial prejudice.\n\nSome 70,000 black African Mauritanians were expelled from Mauritania in the late 1980s. In the Sudan, black African captives in the civil war were often enslaved, and female prisoners were often sexually abused. The Darfur conflict has been described by some as a racial matter. In October 2006, Niger announced that it would deport the Arabs living in the Diffa region of eastern Niger to Chad. This population numbered about 150,000. While the Government collected Arabs in preparation for the deportation, two girls died, reportedly after fleeing Government forces, and three women suffered miscarriages.\nThe Jakarta riots of May 1998 targeted many Chinese Indonesians. The anti-Chinese legislation was in the Indonesian constitution until 1998. Resentment against Chinese workers has led to violent confrontations in Africa and Oceania. Anti-Chinese rioting, involving tens of thousands of people, broke out in Papua New Guinea in May 2009. Indo-Fijians suffered violent attacks after the Fiji coup of 2000. Non-indigenous citizens of Fiji are subject to discrimination. Racial divisions also exist in Guyana, Malaysia, Trinidad and Tobago, Madagascar, or South Africa.\n\nPeter Bouckaert, Human Rights Watch's emergencies director, said in an interview that \"racist hatred\" is the chief motivation behind the violence against Rohingya Muslims in Myanmar.\n\nWith the aim of preserving the demographic makeup of the Zionist state, elements within Israeli society have been accused of discriminatory behavior against the Arab population and of a darker complexion. These communities disproportionately occupy laborer positions with the workforce. Accusations of racism have also included birth control policies, education, and housing discrimination.\n\nOne form of racism in the United States was enforced racial segregation which existed until the 1960s when it was outlawed in the Civil Rights Act of 1964. It has been argued that this separation of races continues to exist \"de facto\" today in different forms, such as lack of access to loans and resources or discrimination by police and other government officials.\n\nThe 2016 Pew Research poll found that Italians, in particular, hold strong anti-Roma views, with 82% of Italians expressing negative opinions about Roma. In Greece 67%, in Hungary 64%, in France 61%, in Spain 49%, in Poland 47%, in the UK 45%, in Sweden 42%, in Germany 40%, and in the Netherlands 37% have an unfavourable view of Roma.\n\nThe modern biological definition of race developed in the 19th century with scientific racist theories. The term \"scientific racism\" refers to the use of science to justify and support racist beliefs, which goes back to the early 18th century, though it gained most of its influence in the mid-19th century, during the New Imperialism period. Also known as academic racism, such theories first needed to overcome the Church's resistance to positivist accounts of history and its support of monogenism, the concept that all human beings were originated from the same ancestors, in accordance with creationist accounts of history.\n\nThese racist theories put forth on scientific hypothesis were combined with unilineal theories of social progress, which postulated the superiority of the European civilization over the rest of the world. Furthermore, they frequently made use of the idea of \"survival of the fittest\", a term coined by Herbert Spencer in 1864, associated with ideas of competition, which were named social Darwinism in the 1940s. Charles Darwin himself opposed the idea of rigid racial differences in \"The Descent of Man\" (1871) in which he argued that humans were all of one species, sharing common descent. He recognised racial differences as varieties of humanity, and emphasised the close similarities between people of all races in mental faculties, tastes, dispositions and habits, while still contrasting the culture of the \"lowest savages\" with European civilization.\n\nAt the end of the 19th century, proponents of scientific racism intertwined themselves with eugenics discourses of \"degeneration of the race\" and \"blood heredity.\" Henceforth, scientific racist discourses could be defined as the combination of polygenism, unilinealism, social Darwinism and eugenism. They found their scientific legitimacy on physical anthropology, anthropometry, craniometry, phrenology, physiognomy, and others now discredited disciplines in order to formulate racist prejudices.\n\nBefore being disqualified in the 20th century by the American school of cultural anthropology (Franz Boas, etc.), the British school of social anthropology (Bronisław Malinowski, Alfred Radcliffe-Brown, etc.), the French school of ethnology (Claude Lévi-Strauss, etc.), as well as the discovery of the neo-Darwinian synthesis, such sciences, in particular anthropometry, were used to deduce behaviours and psychological characteristics from outward, physical appearances.\n\nThe neo-Darwinian synthesis, first developed in the 1930s, eventually led to a gene-centered view of evolution in the 1960s. According to the Human Genome Project, the most complete mapping of human DNA to date indicates that there is no clear genetic basis to racial groups. While some genes are more common in certain populations, there are no genes that exist in all members of one population and no members of any other.\n\nThe first theory of eugenics was developed in 1869 by Francis Galton (1822–1911), who used the then popular concept of \"degeneration\". He applied statistics to study human differences and the alleged \"inheritance of intelligence\", foreshadowing future uses of \"intelligence testing\" by the anthropometry school. Such theories were vividly described by the writer Émile Zola (1840–1902), who started publishing in 1871 a twenty-novel cycle, \"Les Rougon-Macquart\", where he linked heredity to behavior. Thus, Zola described the high-born Rougons as those involved in politics (\"Son Excellence Eugène Rougon\") and medicine (\"Le Docteur Pascal\") and the low-born Macquarts as those fatally falling into alcoholism (\"L'Assommoir\"), prostitution (\"Nana\"), and homicide (\"La Bête humaine\").\n\nDuring the rise of Nazism in Germany, some scientists in Western nations worked to debunk the regime's racial theories. A few argued against racist ideologies and discrimination, even if they believed in the alleged existence of biological races. However, in the fields of anthropology and biology, these were minority positions until the mid-20th century. According to the 1950 UNESCO statement, \"The Race Question\", an international project to debunk racist theories had been attempted in the mid-1930s. However, this project had been abandoned. Thus, in 1950, UNESCO declared that it had resumed:\n\n...up again, after a lapse of fifteen years, a project that the International Committee on Intellectual Cooperation has wished to carry through but that it had to abandon in deference to the appeasement policy of the pre-war period. The race question had become one of the pivots of Nazi ideology and policy. Masaryk and Beneš took the initiative of calling for a conference to re-establish in the minds and consciences of men everywhere the truth about race ... Nazi propaganda was able to continue its baleful work unopposed by the authority of an international organisation.\nThe Third Reich's racial policies, its eugenics programs and the extermination of Jews in the Holocaust, as well as Romani people in the Porrajmos (the Romani Holocaust) and others minorities led to a change in opinions about scientific research into race after the war. Changes within scientific disciplines, such as the rise of the Boasian school of anthropology in the United States contributed to this shift. These theories were strongly denounced in the 1950 UNESCO statement, signed by internationally renowned scholars, and titled \"The Race Question\".\n\nWorks such as Arthur de Gobineau's \"An Essay on the Inequality of the Human Races\" (1853–1855) may be considered as one of the first theorizations of this new racism, founded on an essentialist notion of race, which opposed the former racial discourse, of Boulainvilliers for example, which saw in races a fundamentally historical reality, which changed over time. Gobineau, thus, attempted to frame racism within the terms of biological differences among humans, giving it the legitimacy of biology.\n\nGobineau's theories would be expanded, in France, by Georges Vacher de Lapouge (1854–1936)'s typology of races, who published in 1899 \"The Aryan and his Social Role\", in which he claimed that the white, \"Aryan race\", \"dolichocephalic\", was opposed to the \"brachycephalic\" race, of whom the \"Jew\" was the archetype. Vacher de Lapouge thus created a hierarchical classification of races, in which he identified the \"\"Homo europaeus\" (Teutonic, Protestant, etc.), the \"\"Homo alpinus\" (Auvergnat, Turkish, etc.), and finally the \"Homo mediterraneus\"\" (Neapolitan, Andalus, etc.) He assimilated races and social classes, considering that the French upper class was a representation of the \"Homo europaeus\", while the lower class represented the \"Homo alpinus\". Applying Galton's eugenics to his theory of races, Vacher de Lapouge's \"selectionism\" aimed first at achieving the annihilation of trade unionists, considered to be a \"degenerate\"; second, creating types of man each destined to one end, in order to prevent any contestation of labour conditions. His \"anthroposociology\" thus aimed at blocking social conflict by establishing a fixed, hierarchical social order.\n\nThe same year, William Z. Ripley used identical racial classification in \"The Races of Europe\" (1899), which would have a great influence in the United States. Other scientific authors include H.S. Chamberlain at the end of the 19th century (a British citizen who naturalized himself as German because of his admiration for the \"Aryan race\") and Madison Grant, a eugenicist and author of \"The Passing of the Great Race\" (1916). Madison Grant provided statistics for the Immigration Act of 1924, which severely restricted immigration of Jews, Slavs, and southern Europeans, who were subsequently hindered in seeking to escape Nazi Germany.\n\n Human zoos (called \"People Shows\"), were an important means of bolstering \"popular racism\" by connecting it to scientific racism: they were both objects of public curiosity and of anthropology and anthropometry. Joice Heth, an African American slave, was displayed by P.T. Barnum in 1836, a few years after the exhibition of Saartjie Baartman, the \"Hottentot Venus\", in England. Such exhibitions became common in the New Imperialism period, and remained so until World War II. Carl Hagenbeck, inventor of the modern zoos, exhibited animals beside humans who were considered \"savages\".\n\nCongolese pygmy Ota Benga was displayed in 1906 by eugenicist Madison Grant, head of the Bronx Zoo, as an attempt to illustrate the \"missing link\" between humans and orangutans: thus, racism was tied to Darwinism, creating a social Darwinist ideology that tried to ground itself in Darwin's scientific discoveries. The 1931 Paris Colonial Exhibition displayed Kanaks from New Caledonia. A \"Congolese village\" was on display as late as 1958 at the Brussels' World Fair.\n\nEvolutionary psychologists John Tooby and Leda Cosmides were puzzled by the fact that in the US race is one of the three characteristics most often used in brief descriptions of individuals (the others are age and sex). They reasoned that natural selection would not have favoured the evolution of an instinct for using race as a classification, because for most of human history, humans almost never encountered members of other races. Tooby and Cosmides hypothesized that modern people use race as a proxy (rough-and-ready indicator) for coalition membership, since a better-than-random guess about \"which side\" another person is on will be helpful if one does not actually know in advance.\n\nTheir colleague Robert Kurzban designed an experiment whose results appeared to support this hypothesis. Using the Memory confusion protocol, they presented subjects with pictures of individuals and sentences, allegedly spoken by these individuals, which presented two sides of a debate. The errors that the subjects made in recalling who said what indicated that they sometimes misattributed a statement to a speaker of the same race as the \"correct\" speaker, although they also sometimes misattributed a statement to a speaker \"on the same side\" as the \"correct\" speaker. In a second run of the experiment, the team also distinguished the \"sides\" in the debate by clothing of similar colors; and in this case the effect of racial similarity in causing mistakes almost vanished, being replaced by the color of their clothing. In other words, the first group of subjects, with no clues from clothing, used race as a visual guide to guessing who was on which side of the debate; the second group of subjects used the clothing color as their main visual clue, and the effect of race became very small.\n\nSome research suggests that ethnocentric thinking may have actually contributed to the development of cooperation. Political scientists Ross Hammond and Robert Axelrod created a computer simulation wherein virtual individuals were randomly assigned one of a variety of skin colors, and then one of a variety of trading strategies: be color-blind, favor those of your own color, or favor those of other colors. They found that the ethnocentric individuals clustered together, then grew until all the non-ethnocentric individuals were wiped out.\n\nIn \"The Selfish Gene\", evolutionary biologist Richard Dawkins writes that \"Blood-feuds and inter-clan warfare are easily interpretable in terms of Hamilton's genetic theory.\" Dawkins writes that racial prejudice, while not evolutionarily adaptive, \"could be interpreted as an irrational generalization of a kin-selected tendency to identify with individuals physically resembling oneself, and to be nasty to individuals different in appearance\". Simulation-based experiments in evolutionary game theory have attempted to provide an explanation for the selection of ethnocentric-strategy phenotypes.\n\nDespite support for evolutionary theories relating to an innate origin of racism, various studies have suggested racism is associated with lower intelligence and less diverse peer groups during childhood. A neuroimaging study on amygdala activity during racial matching activities found increased activity to be associated with adolescent age as well as less racially diverse peer groups which the author conclude suggest a learned aspect of racism. A meta analysis of neuroimaging studies found amygdala activity correlated to increased scores on implicit measures of racial bias. It was also argued amygdala activity in response to racial stimuli represents increased threat perception rather than the traditional theory of the amygdala activity represented ingroup-outgroup processing. Racism has also been associated with lower childhood IQ in an analysis of 15,000 people in the UK.\n\nState racism—that is, the institutions and practices of a nation-state that are grounded in racist ideology—has played a major role in all instances of settler colonialism, from the United States to Australia. It also played a prominent role in the Nazi German regime, in fascist regimes throughout Europe, and during the early years of Japan's Shōwa period. These governments advocated and implemented ideologies and policies that were racist, xenophobic and, in the case of Nazism, genocidal. The politics of Zimbabwe promote discrimination against whites, in an effort to ethnically cleanse the country.\n\nThe Nuremberg Race Laws of 1935 prohibited sexual relations between any Aryan and Jew, considering it \"Rassenschande\", \"racial pollution\". The Nuremberg Laws stripped all Jews, even quarter- and half-Jews (second and first degree \"Mischlings\"), of their German citizenship. This meant that they had no basic citizens' rights, e.g., the right to vote. In 1936, Jews were banned from all professional jobs, effectively preventing them from having any influence in education, politics, higher education and industry. On 15 November 1938, Jewish children were banned from going to normal schools. By April 1939, nearly all Jewish companies had either collapsed under financial pressure and declining profits, or had been persuaded to sell out to the Nazi government. This further reduced their rights as human beings; they were in many ways officially separated from the German populace. Similar laws existed in Bulgaria – The Law for protection of the nation, Hungary, Romania, and Austria.\n\nLegislative state racism is known to have been enforced by the National Party of South Africa during its Apartheid regime between 1948 and 1994. Here a series of Apartheid legislation was passed through the legal systems to make it legal for white South Africans to have rights which were superior to those of non-white South Africans. Non-white South Africans were not allowed involvement in any governing matters, including voting; access to quality healthcare; the provision of basic services, including clean water; electricity; as well as access to adequate schooling. Non-white South Africans were also prevented from accessing certain public areas, from using certain public transportation and were required to live only in certain designated areas. Non-white South Africans were taxed differently than white South Africans and they were also required to carry on them at all times additional documentation, which later became known as \"dom passes\", to certify their non-white South African citizenship. All of these legislative racial laws were abolished through a series of equal human rights laws which were passed at the end of the Apartheid era in the early 1990s.\n\nThe current constitution of Liberia, as enacted in 1984, is racist in its Article 27, because it does not allow non-blacks to become Liberian citizens: \"only persons who are Negroes or of Negro descent shall qualify by birth or by naturalization to be citizens of Liberia\".\n\nAnti-racism includes beliefs, actions, movements, and policies which are adopted or developed in order to oppose racism. In general, it promotes an egalitarian society in which people are not discriminated against on the basis of race. Movements such as the civil rights movement and the Anti-Apartheid Movement were examples of anti-racist movements. Nonviolent resistance is sometimes embraced as an element of anti-racist movements, although this was not always the case. Hate crime laws, affirmative action, and bans on racist speech are also examples of government policy which is intended to suppress racism.\n\n"}
{"id": "41089704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41089704", "title": "Referendums by country", "text": "Referendums by country\n\nA referendum (in some countries synonymous with plebiscite, or a vote on a ballot question) is a direct vote in which an entire electorate is asked to either accept or reject a particular proposal. This article summarises referendum legislature and practice in various countries.\n\nOn 19 March 2011 a constitutional referendum was held in Egypt, following the Egyptian Revolution of 2011. The reforms made it easier for candidates to run for president, limited the number of presidential terms to two four-year periods, and ensured judicial monitoring of elections.\n\nIn April 1993 nearly 1 million voters in Eritrea (a quarter of the population), cast ballots to become \"sovereign and independent\" of Ethiopia. This vote was the result of thirty years of war by Eritreans during their War of Independence. The result was a vote for independence by 99.8% of the voters.\n\nThere have been several referendums in Morocco, most of which were related to the Moroccan constitution. Since becoming King, Mohammed VI has led many reforms that made Morocco an exception from all the other Arab countries. On February 20, 2011, thousands took to the streets of Rabat, Casablanca, Tangier and Marrakesh in peaceful protests demanding a new constitution, a change in government and an end to corruption. During a march on Hassan II Avenue in Rabat, demonstrators demanded a new constitution to bring more democracy to the country. They shouted slogans calling for economic opportunity, education reform, better health services, and help in coping with the rising cost of living.\n\nOn March 9, King Mohammed VI made a speech that was described as a \"historical\" speech in which he announced several reforms including a new constitution to the country.\n\nIn a televised speech on Friday, 17 June, King Mohammed VI announced a series of constitutional reforms, to be put to a national referendum on 1 July. The proposed reforms would give the prime minister and the parliament more executive authority, and would make Berber an official language in Morocco, together with Arabic. The proposal would empower the prime minister with the authority to appoint government officials and to dissolve the parliament - the powers previously held by the king. However, the king would remain the military commander-in-chief and would retain his position as the chair of the Council of Ministers and the Supreme Security Council, the primary bodies responsible for the security policy. A new constitutional provision would also confirm the king's role as the highest religious authority in the country.\n\nAlthough most people were celebrating among the protesters after the King's speech, the leaders of the 20 February Movement rejected the proposals as insufficient and called for continuing protests on 19 June 2011. On 29 June 2011, the protesters called for a boycott of the referendum. The referendum was held on June 1, and almost all Moroccans said yes to it with a \"98% yes\" \"2% No\" turnout.\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Bangladesh on 15 September 1991. Voters were asked \"Should or not the President assent to the Constitution (Twelfth Amendment) Bill, 1991 of the People's Republic of Bangladesh?\" The amendments would lead to the reintroduction of parliamentary government, with the President becoming the constitutional head of state, but the Prime Minister the executive head. It also abolished the position of Vice-President and would see the President elected by Parliament. The result saw 83.6% vote in favour, with a turnout of 35.2%.[1]\n\nEast Timor, formerly governed by Indonesia, held a referendum on 30 August 1999, in which voters chose either to become a Special Autonomous Region within Indonesia, or for independence. Around 79% of voters opted for independence.\n\nDue to discontent towards the proposal of political reform made by the Hong Kong government, the Civic Party and the League of Social Democrats joined together to carry out \"Five Constituencies Referendum\" in early 2010, by having one Legislative Councillors (from either one of the parties) in each constituency resigned, forcing the government to carry out a by-election, thus giving a chance for all voters to show their will towards universal suffrage and the abolition of functional constituencies. This is often called a \"\"de facto\" referendum\".\n\nThe Basic Law of Hong Kong does not provide for official referendums, but the pan-democrats hope that by returning the resignees to the Legislative Council, on their manifesto of real political reform in Hong Kong and the abolition of functional constituencies, the election can be seen as a de facto referendum and an endorsement of these issues.\n\nThe original five pan-democrat Legislative Councillors were re-elected, the turnout was much lower than the expectation of the two parties, due to the suppression of pro-Beijing Camp.\n\nIndonesian Constitution does not mention referendums at all, and as such, referendums are not a part of Indonesian political practice. In 1985, the People's Consultative Assembly issued Law no. 5/1985 that officially recognized referendum as a legitimate political process in Indonesia, but revoked in 1999 by Law no. 6/1999. According to explanation given in Law no. 6/1999, referendum is not compatible with Indonesian doctrine of representative democracy, as on the fourth principles of the national ideology Pancasila, absence on mentions of referendums inside the national constitution also became another reason why was the referendum law revoked.\n\nIndonesia had no nationwide referendum, but only regional one and concerning only on territorial changes. In 1969, Act of Free Choice integrated West Papua into Indonesia, despite the name reflecting a referendum, the process actually only involving around 1000 representatives in a process of deliberation. Independence referendum in East Timor province took place in 1999, paving the way of East Timor province independence from Indonesia in 2002.\n\nIn 1979 and after the Islamic Revolution had toppled the Iranian monarchy, a referendum was held to choose the future governing system of the country. The question was a simple yes or no to the Islamic Republic, a system which combines direct representation with religious authority. The Islamic Republic was established after more than 98% of the population voted yes.\n\nThe current Constitution of Iraq was approved by referendum on 15 October 2005, two years after the United States-led invasion. The constitution was designed to shift crucial decisions about government, the judiciary and human rights to a future national assembly. It was later modified to provide for the establishment of a committee by the parliament to be elected in December 2005 to consider changes to the constitution in 2006.\n\nThe Malaysian Constitution does not mention referendums at all. There have been no referendums in Malaysian history.\n\nGeneral Pervez Musharraf held a referendum in Pakistan on 30 April 2002 to legitimize his presidency and assure its continuance after the approaching restoration of democracy. He thus extended his term to five years after the October 2002 elections. The voter turnout was 80 percent by most estimates, amidst claims of irregularities. A few weeks later, Musharraf went on TV and apologized to the nation for \"irregularities\" in the referendum.\n\nThe Constitution of the Philippines can only be amended or revised via a national plebiscite. Alteration of boundaries of autonomous regions, provinces, towns, cities and barangays (villages), including creation, merger and upgrading of new local government units from existing ones, are to be decided on local plebiscites amongst the affected places. A referendum is the final step in the approval of a people's initiative. All referendums are binding.\n\nThe present constitution was approved via a plebiscite in 1987. The last provincial-level plebiscite was for the creation of the province of Davao Occidental in 2013 that was approved.\n\nAccording to the Constitution of Singapore, a referendum can be held in a few circumstances, including situations when a constitutional amendment passed by the Parliament is rejected by the President, or when the nation's sovereignty needs to be decided (\"i.e.\", merger or incorporation into other countries). to date, the 1962 national referendum which decided the terms of a merger of Singapore into Malaysia. There were three choices: 1) To merge with Malaya, having autonomy in labour and education; 2) To merge with Malaya, having same status as the other states in Malaya; 3) To merge with Malaya, having terms similar to those of the Borneo territories. Option #1 won with 71% of the vote. Two years after the merger, Singapore's expulsion from Malaysia occurred on 9 August 1965 due to disagreements between the two political ideas.\n\nThe \"Referendum Act\" was promoted and introduced by the Democratic Progressive Party for years and then enacted by the Legislative Yuan in 2003. There have been six national referendums and two local referendums in Taiwan.\n\nOn 4 September 2008, amidst hundreds of thousands of protesters demanding the government resign, Thailand's premier Samak Sundaravej's government approved the idea of a referendum to ask the Thai electorate if it wanted to keep the government or not.\n\nThe Austrian constitution defines two types of referendums on the federal level: binding referendum and non-binding referendum. Binding referendum is mandatory if the President should be removed from office before the end of his term, and in case of comprehensive change of the Federal Constitution. Binding referendum is facultative (not mandatory) in case of non-comprehensive changes in the Federal Constitution. \nThere was only one binding referendum in post-1945 Austria: European Union membership referendum.\n\nThe National Council has the power to call on a non-binding referendum on matters of great importance. There were two such referendums in post-1945 Austria: nuclear power referendum in 1978, and conscription referendum in 2013.\n\nBinding referendums in Belgium are not legally possible because of the constitutional principle that the country's powers are exercised by the nation and not by the people. Consequently, Belgium is a representative democracy, almost without any form of direct democracy.\n\nNon-binding referendums on the municipal and provincial level are allowed. Non-binding referendums on the regional level are also allowed by law but the implementation decisions are lacking. This way government makes it impossible to make use of it.\n\nFive nationwide referendums have been held in Bulgaria since it gained its De Facto independence in 1878:\nSeveral regional referendums have been held as well.\n\nReferendums in Croatia can be called by:\n\nThe institution of a referendum is regulated by article 87. of the constitution of Croatia. Referendums can be called on any issue falling within the competence of the Croatian Parliament or on any other issue which the President of Croatia considers to be important for the independence, unity and existence of the Republic.\n\nSince amendments to the constitution in 2001, the Parliament is obligated by constitution to call a referendum if signatures of 10% of registered voters in the Republic of Croatia are collected. The time frame for collecting the signatures is defined by the law on referendums, and it is 15 days.\n\nConstitution of Cyprus has no mention of referendum (as of 2013). The only referendum to take place in independent Cyprus was a referendum on the Annan Plan.\n\nThere are no provisions concerning referendums in the Constitution of the Czech Republic, except for \"referendum concerning the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union\". Therefore, the only referendum ever held in the Czech Republic at the national level was Czech European Union membership referendum in 2003.\n\nIt is possible to hold a referendum at regional and municipal levels.\n\nIn Denmark, after a law has been passed by parliament, one third of the members can demand a referendum. This does not apply to money bills or expropriation. A law that transfers sovereignty to an international organisation must be subjected to a referendum unless five sixth of the MPs vote for it. In both cases, to defeat the law the no votes must not only outnumber the yes votes, they must also number at least 30% of the electorate. Since all referendums have had much more than 60% turnout, no bill has yet passed due to lack of interest.\n\nIn practice, referendums have been held every time new treaties of the European Union have been approved, even when more than five sixths can be found. Recently, the Danish government was highly criticized when it did not hold a referendum regarding the controversial Lisbon treaty.\n\nThe Constitution of Denmark can be changed only after a referendum. To pass, the yes votes must not only outnumber the no votes, they must also number at least 40% of the electorate.\n\nThe present location of the border with Germany was determined by a referendum in 1920 after the German capitulation. See Schleswig.\n\nThe Constitution of Estonia gives the Parliament of Estonia the power to submit a bill or other national issue to a binding referendum. If a bill which is submitted to a referendum does not receive a majority of votes in favour, the President of the Republic shall declare extraordinary elections to the Parliament.\n\nThere are some issues which cannot be submitted to the referendum: issues regarding the budget, taxation, financial obligations of the state, ratification and denunciation of international treaties, the declaration or termination of a state of emergency, or national defence.\n\nSome parts of the Constitution can be amended only by a referendum, while the rest of Constitution can be amended either by a referendum or by other means.\n\nA referendum was called by the Parliament of Estonia on two occasions since its independence from USSR was restored:\nAlso, there was a referendum on Estonian independence in 1991 while Estonian SSR was still a part of the USSR.\n\nThe Constitution of Finland allows only for a non-binding referendum called on by the Parliament. If 50,000 Finnish citizens sign an initiative (for an act or a referendum), the Parliament has to discuss it, but the initiative is not binding.\n\nAs of 2013 there have been only two referendums in Finland:\n\nThe practice of referendums for tough decisions appeared with Charles De Gaulle's Fifth Republic, in order to overcome the Parliament. A referendum can be called by the President for constitutional changes, treaty ratification, laws concerning the administration or the territory. The political risks involved made the practice rare. Most constitutional revisions went through the super-majority of Parliament. Therefore, a procedure of popular initiative, backed by a handful of MPs, is being put in place.\n\nFollowing World War II, the new western republic (Federal Republic of Germany) was founded with only minor elements of direct democracy. On the federal level, there are only two mandatory constitutional referendum types. One type is for enacting a new constitution. Changes to the constitution do not require a public vote and there is no provision for an initiative for a constitutional amendment. There has never been a referendum of this type, although there was an argument in that direction during German reunification. The other type requires a public vote in case of restructuring the Bundesländer i.e. States (\"Neugliederung des Bundesgebietes\", \"New Arrangement of the Federal Territory\") which led to a referendum on the merger of Baden and Württemberg into Baden-Württemberg in 1951 (accepted) and a referendum on the merger of Berlin and Brandenburg into Berlin-Brandenburg in 1996 (rejected).\n\nOriginally none of the Bundesländer (federated states) had provisions for a general binding referendum (\"Volksentscheid\" \"people's decision\"). Only Hesse and Bavaria have a mandatory binding referendum on changes to the state constitution. However, most states have a form of non-binding ballot question (\"Volksbefragung\" \"people's inquiry\") which has rarely been used - the most important one had been the Saar Statute referendum, 1955. General forms of direct democracy were first introduced in the communities with facultative ballot questions (\"Bürgerbefragung\" \"citizens inquiry\") and public initiatives (\"Bürgerbegehren\" \"citizens request\") that are both non-binding. In some areas, this has been expanded into a binding referendum type (\"Bürgerentscheid\" \"citizens decision\") but almost universally facultative. In some states, there is a general right on state popular initiatives (\"Volksbegehren\" \"people's request\") which was used in Hamburg to push the state government to pass a law on a facultative binding state referendum (\"Volksentscheid\") in 2007.\n\nThe Constitution provides for two kinds of referendums:\n\nThere were 8 referendums in Greece from 1920 to now. All but two have had to do with the form of government, namely retention/reestablishment or abolition of the monarchy. The two referendums not concerning the form of government was constitutional referendum in 1968 held by the military junta, and the 2015 Greek bailout referendum.\n\nThe Constitution proscribes two ways to hold a referendum:\n\nThe Constitution imposes a number of prohibitions on matters on which a referendum can be held, including amending Constitution, budget, taxing, obligations from international agreements, military operations, etc. Required voter turnout for the referendum to be valid is 50%. The decision made by a referendum is binding on the Parliament. There was one referendum in People's Republic of Hungary and there were 5 referendums in modern (post-1989) Hungary. \n\nThe constitution of Iceland provides two articles on referendums:\n\nA total of 7 referendums have been held in Iceland, three of which were held after the nation declared independence and became a republic in 1944.\n\n\nThe current Constitution of Ireland was adopted by plebiscite on 1 July 1937. In Ireland every constitutional amendment must be approved by referendum; 37 such referendums have occurred from the enactment of the current constitution to October of 2018. Constitutional amendments are first adopted by both Houses of the Oireachtas (parliament), submitted to a referendum, and are signed into law by the President. The signature is merely a formality: the president cannot refuse to sign into law an amendment that has been approved in a referendum.\n\nArticle 27 of the constitution provides for a referendum on an ordinary bill, known as an 'ordinary referendum'.\n\nThis can occur in two circumstances.\nFirst, if a bill is simply passed in the ordinary manner with a provision that it be sent to referendum. Second, a bill that, in the opinion of the President, \"is of such national importance that the will of the people ought to be ascertained\" if requested to do so by a majority of the Senate and a third of Dail Eireann. Article 27 was intended for bills that were particularly contentious, controversial or of high importance. Despite there having been many bills fitting these criteria, article 27 has never been used.\n\nThe constitution of Italy provides for two kinds of binding referendums.\n\nA legislative referendum can be called in order to abrogate a law totally or partially, if requested by 500,000 electors or five regional councils. This kind of referendum is valid only if at least a majority of electors goes to the polling station. It is forbidden to call a referendum regarding financial laws or laws relating to pardons or the ratification of international treaties.\n\nA constitutional referendum can be called in order to approve a constitutional law or amendment only when it has been approved by the Houses (Chamber of Deputies and Senate of the Republic) with a majority of less than two thirds in both or either House, and only at the request of one fifth of the members of either House, or 500,000 electors or five Regional Councils. A constitutional referendum is valid no matter how many electors go to the polling station. Any citizen entitled to vote in an election to the Chamber of Deputies may participate in a referendum.\n\nThe Constitution of Latvia proscribes a referendum for five purposes:\n\nOne tenth or registered voters has the right to initiate a national referendum regarding recalling of the Parliament. Voter turnout needed is two thirds of the number of the voters who participated in the last elections for the Parliament.\n\nSubstantial changes in the terms regarding the membership of Latvia in the European Union shall be decided by a national referendum if such referendum is requested by at least one-half of the members of the Parliament.\n\nA referendum will be held on a law if a President suspends it, and in a two-month period one tenth of the electorate requests a referendum, except if the Parliament again adopts the law with three three-quarters super-majority. Voter turnout needed is 50% of the number of the voters who participated in the last elections for the Parliament.\n\nThe constitution limits issues which can be submitted to a referendum. It forbids issues like budget, taxes, military conscription, declaration of war, peace treaties, agreements with other nations, etc.; according to the Constitutional Court of Latvia, the intent of initiators to organise a referendum cannot entail repeal of ‘the principle of wholeness of the Constitution of Latvia’ that ‘prohibits interpretation of separate norms of the Constitution of Latvia as isolated from the other Constitution of Latvia norms, because the Constitution of Latvia as a document, which is a cohesive whole, influences the contents and sense of the norm’; this means that at least the basic human rights and general principles of law listed in the Constitution of Latvia—such as the right of minorities to preserve and develop their language and their ethnic and cultural identity, the rights of a child, and the right to equality and non-discrimination, not to mention the principles of proportionality, legal certainty, and legitimate expectations —have to be honoured in the interpretation of all proposed amendments\n\nOne tenth of the electorate can request amendment of the Constitution adoption of a law. Absolute majority is required for such a referendum to pass. The exception is decision regarding substantial changes in the terms regarding membership in the EU - those measures need voter turnout of 50% of the number of the voters who participated in the last elections for the Parliament.\n\nThere were 13 referendums in Latvia's history, of that 4 in 1923 - 1934 period and 9 since 1991.\n\nLithuania has held 12 referendums since 1991.\n\nThe Constitution of Luxembourg mentions the referendum in Article 51: \"Voters will be asked to vote by way of referendum in the cases and under the conditions determined by law.\" The only details about execution of referendums are found in Article 114 which deals with constitutional amendments. There are no other provisions regarding referendums in Luxembourg.\n\nThe referendum on constitutional amendment (defined in Article 114) is binding. Referendums in general (defined in Article 51) are not explicitly stated to be binding.\n\nThere were four referendums in Luxembourg since 1919:\n\nThere are three types of referendums in Malta: constitutional, consultative and abrogative referendums.\n\nConstitutional referendums are required by article 66(3) of the Constitution of Malta. While binding, it is limited to the single instance of amending the Constitutional provision on the maximum parliamentary term of five years. This type of referendum has never taken place.\n\nThe other categories of referendums are regulated by the Referenda Act. \"Consultative\" referendums (the Act does not use the term) can either take place prior to the assent of a bill in the House of Representatives or following the parliamentary procedure in a form of a conditional clause in the said bill. In the former case it would not legally bind Parliament to approve the said legislation irrelevant of the result of the said referendum, however the latter case, it would be conventionally binding on the President to promulgate the bill into law. There has been five referendums like this on a national level, one on a regional level (Gozo Civic Council referendum, 1973) and a number of local referendums organised by single Local Councils.\n\nAn abrogative referendum has never been held and, if invoked and successful, can abrogate pieces of legislation barring some exceptions, notably financial and constitutional law.\n\nAccording to Article 75 of the Constitution of Moldova, \"(1) Problems of utmost gravity or urgency confronting the Moldovan society or State shall be resolved by referendum. (2) The decisions passed in consequence of the results produced by the republican referendum have supreme judicial power.\" There were two referendums held in Moldova, in 1994 and 2010.\n\nSince 1 July 2015, most laws can be subjected to a consultative referendum after their approval by the States General, following a request by 300,000 people.\n\nBefore that date, in principle, there was no permanent provision in law for a referendum. However, from 2002 until 2005, there was a Temporary Referendum Law in place, which allowed for non-binding referendums, known in Dutch as \"Volksraadpleging\" (\"People's Consultation\"), to be organised for laws already approved by the House of Representatives. No referendum was called based on this law.\n\nIn order to hold the 2005 referendum on the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, a different law was temporarily put in place. That referendum was the first national referendum in the Netherlands in 200 years (Batavian Republic constitutional referendum, 1805), and it was the result of an initiative proposal by parliamentarians Farah Karimi (GroenLinks), Niesco Dubbelboer (Labour) and Boris van der Ham (Democrats 66).\n\nThe Dutch Ukraine–European Union Association Agreement referendum, 2016 is the most recent Dutch referendum; the Dutch Intelligence and Security Services Act referendum, 2018 was approved to be held next March.\n\nThe Norwegian Constitution does not mention referendums at all, and as such, referendums are not a part of Norwegian political practice. However, six advisory referendums have been held in Norway, most notably, the referendums on Norwegian EU membership, and the referendum for dissolving the union with Sweden. It is worth noting that these referendums, and potential future referendums, although legitimate as part of Norwegian constitutional convention, will not have any \"legal binding\": They will merely be advisory, and the final decision will be taken by the Norwegian parliament, who may choose (albeit unlikely) to disregard the will of the Norwegian people as expressed through the referendum.\n\nThere have been four referendums in the modern Poland: \n\nA referendum on a proposed EU constitution was planned in 2005, but has been put on hold after the rejection of constitution by French voters.\n\nThe referendum in Portugal is called by the President of Portugal (if he so decides), on a proposal submitted by the Assembly or the Government. Referendums are binding if turnout is higher than 50% of registered voters. Citizens of Portugal have the right to submit to the Assembly an initiative for a referendum.\n\nThe referendum can be held only on \"important issues concerning the national interest\". The referendum cannot be held on amendments to the Constitution, and some issues such as budget and competences of the Assembly.\n\nThere have been three referendums in modern Portugal:\nAll three referendums had turnouts of less than 50%, which meant they were not binding. Nonetheless, the winning option on all three referendums was honoured by the governments of the time.\n\nThe Constitution of Romania defines that a referendum has to be called to suspend the President from office, or amend the Constitution. Moreover, a referendum can be called on matters of national interest by the President of Romania after consultation with Parliament.\n\nThere have been 6 referendums in post-communist Romania:\n\nThe Russian Constitution of 1993 was adopted by a controversial referendum.\n\nThe Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted on a referendum held in 28–29 October 2006. The constitutional referendum passed with 3,521,724 voting a 53.04% majority. 3,645,517 or 54.91% voted on the referendum, which made it legitimate.\n\nThere was an independence referendum in Slovenia on 23 December 1990. The turnout was 93.3% of all voters, of which 94.8% cast a vote in support of independence. It was the first such referendum in one of the then Yugoslavian republics. The results were announced on 26 December, and on 25 June 1991, the Slovenian parliament passed an independence law proclaiming Slovenia a sovereign country. This was followed by the Ten-Day War, in which Slovenian forces drove the Yugoslav People's Army out of the country. In 2015, Slovenia held another referendum on a bill legalizing same-sex marriage, which was rejected by the majority of voters.\n\nIn a referendum in Spain (\"Referéndum para la reforma política\", literally \"Referendum for political reformation\") on 15 December 1976, after the death of Francisco Franco, 94% of voters approved a Political Reform Bill to establish democracy. On 6 December 1978 a further referendum was held to approve a new Constitution. Spaniards chose (91.8% of voters) to approve the Constitution. Also, in 1986 another referendum approved Spain's membership of NATO. In 2014 a referendum on independence was proposed in Catalonia, although without the approval of the Spanish government.\n\nThe Constitution of Sweden provides for both binding and non-binding referendums. Since the introduction of parliamentary democracy, six referendums have been held: the first was about alcohol prohibition in 1922, and the most recent was about euro membership in 2003. All have been non-binding, consultative referendums. Two, in 1957 and 1980, were multiple-choice referendums.\n\nIn Switzerland Swiss voters can demand a binding referendum at federal, cantonal, and municipal level. They are a central feature of Swiss political life. It is not the government's choice whether or when a referendum is held, but it is a legal procedure regulated by the Swiss constitution. There are two types of referendums:\nThe possibility of facultative referendums forces the parliament to search for a compromise between the major interest groups. In many cases, the mere threat of a facultative referendum or of an initiative is enough to make the parliament adjust a law.\n\nThe referendums are said, by their adversaries, to slow politics down. On the other hand, empirical scientists, e.g. Bruno S. Frey among many, show that this and other instruments of citizens' participation, direct democracy, contribute to stability and happiness.\n\nThe votes on referendums are always held on a weekend (the voting's official date is set to Sundays), typically three or four times a year, and in most cases, the votes concern several referendums at the same time, usually at different political levels (federal, cantonal, municipal) about several different subjects. Referendums are also often combined with elections. Voter turnout is around 40% to 50%, unless there is an election or the subject of a referendum is of a critical nature. The decisions made in referendums tend to be conservative. Citizens' initiatives are usually not passed. The federal rule and referendums have been regularly used in Switzerland since its inauguration as a modern state: almost 600 national votes have been held since 1848.\n\nThe Crimean status referendum, 2014 was a referendum on the status of Crimea held on March 16, 2014, by the legislature of Autonomous Republic of Crimea as well as by the local government of Sevastopol, both subdivisions of Ukraine at the time. The referendum asked the people of Crimea whether they wanted to join Russia as a federal subject, or if they wanted to restore the 1992 Crimean constitution and Crimea's status as a part of Ukraine.\n\nThe available choices did not include keeping the status quo of Crimea and Sevastopol as they were at the moment the referendum was held. The 1992 constitution accords greater powers to the Crimean parliament including full sovereign powers to establish relations with other states, therefore many commentators argued that both provided referendum choices would result in de facto separation from Ukraine.\n\nSupreme Council of Crimea considered the ousting of Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych in the 2014 Ukrainian revolution as a coup and the new interim government in Kiev as illegitimate and stated that the referendum is a response to these developments. The referendum was regarded as illegitimate by most countries including all European Union members, the United States and Canada because of the events surrounding it including the plebiscite being held while the peninsula was occupied by Russian soldiers. Thirteen members of the United Nations Security Council voted in favor of a resolution declaring the referendum invalid, but Russia vetoed it and China abstained. A United Nations General Assembly resolution was later adopted, by a vote of 100 in favor vs. 11 against with 58 abstentions, which declared the referendum invalid and affirmed Ukraine's territorial integrity. The Mejlis of the Crimean Tatar People called for a boycott of the referendum.\n\nRussia officially recognized the results of the Crimean referendum and claims that unilateral Kosovo declaration of independence has set a precedent, which allows secession of Crimea from Ukraine. Such parallels are disputed by Western scholars, however.\n\nThe official result from the Autonomous Republic of Crimea was a 96.77 percent vote for integration of the region into the Russian Federation with an 83.1 percent voter turnout. The Mejlis Deputy Chairman Akhtem Chiygoz stated that the actual turnout could not have exceed 30–40 percent,whilst former Russian government adviser Andrey Illarionov stated that the actual support for the reunification of Crimea with Russia was about 34 percent, citing results of previous polls over past three years. However, according to the Gallup's survey performed on 21–27 April, 82.8% of Crimean people consider the referendum results reflecting most Crimeans’ views, and 73.9% of Crimeans say Crimea's becoming part of Russia will make life better for themselves and their families, just 5.5% disagree.\n\nFollowing the referendum, Supreme Council of Crimea and Sevastopol City Council declared independence of Crimea from Ukraine and requested to join the Russian Federation. On the same day, Russia recognized Crimea as a sovereign state.\n\nAlthough Acts of Parliament may permit referendums to take place, the doctrine of parliamentary sovereignty means any Act of Parliament giving effect to a referendum result could be reversed by a subsequent Act of Parliament. As a result, referendums in the United Kingdom cannot be constitutionally binding, although they will usually have a persuasive political effect.\n\nMajor referendums are rare; only three have been put to the entire UK electorate. The first was the United Kingdom European Communities membership referendum, 1975, which was held two years after British accession to the European Economic Community to gauge support for continued membership. The second was the United Kingdom Alternative Vote referendum, 2011. This was to vote on changing the 'First Past the Post' system to an alternative electoral system, the Alternative Vote.\n\nReferendums have been held in individual parts of the United Kingdom on issues relating to devolution in Scotland and Wales, an elected Mayor of London and a Greater London Authority for Greater London, a regional assembly for the North-East of England and the constitutional status and governance of Northern Ireland. Since 1973, the year of the first such plebiscite, there have been nine major referendums.\n\nIn 2004, Her Majesty's Government promised a UK-wide referendum on the new European Constitution, but this was postponed in 2005 following the defeats of the French and Dutch referendums. Due to the replacement of the European Constitution with the Treaty of Lisbon, there was no obligation for a referendum. Referendums have also been proposed, but not held, on the replacement of the pound sterling with the euro as the currency of the United Kingdom.\n\nA national referendum was held in Scotland on the 18th of September 2014. Voters were asked to answer Yes or No to the question: \"Should Scotland be an independent country?\" to which 55% of Scots voted \"No\".\n\nAt the local level, the Government has put proposals for directly-elected mayors to 37 local authority areas by referendum. The 1972 Local Government Act also contains a little-used provision that allows non-binding local referendums on any issue to be called by small groups of voters. Strathclyde Regional Council held a postal referendum in 1994 on whether control of water and sewerage services should be transferred to appointed boards: this was largely a political tactic, since this was the policy of the UK Government at the time. The UK Parliament enacted the legislation anyway, and it came into force on 1 April 1996.\n\nOn Thursday 23 June 2016 a third UK-wide referendum was held on the issue of the United Kingdom's continuing membership of the European Union 41 years after the first referendum. The referendum was called by the Prime Minister David Cameron and Her Majesty's Government after an agreement was struck in Brussels with the European Union which renegotiated the membership of the United Kingdom. This referendum resulted in a majority voting to leave the EU by 52% of voters as opposed to 48% of voters who voted to remain, causing unprecedented ramifications both within the UK, Europe and internationally, and forced the resignation of David Cameron the following day and he officially left office on July 13.\n\nReferendums are rare in Canada and only three have ever occurred at the federal level: 1898 on Prohibition, 1942 on WWII conscription, and 1992 on the Charlottetown Accord. Although the Constitution of Canada does not expressly require that amendments be approved by referendum, many argue that, in light of the precedent set by the Charlottetown Accord referendum, this may have become a constitutional convention.\n\nA referendum can also occur at the provincial level. The 1980 and 1995 referendums on the secession of Québec are notable cases. In conjunction with the provincial election in 2007, the province of Ontario voted on a mixed-member proportional representation electoral system and British Columbia held two consecutive referendums on BC-STV in 2005 and 2009. In 2011 British Columbia held yet another referendum against a newly imposed HST tax. The results ended up making British Columbia the first province to overturn the harmonization of provincial and federal taxes, joining it with Alberta, which not having a provincial sales tax, has never participated in the HST. A referendum was held in the Canadian province of Prince Edward Island on November 28, 2005 to determine whether or not to adopt the Mixed Member Proportional Representation System. The referendum failed.\n\nThere is no provision for the holding of referendums at the federal level in the United States, which the Constitution does not provide for. \n\nHowever, 24 states (principally in the West, but also in Eastern states, such as Massachusetts) and many local and city governments provide for referendums and citizen's initiatives. Such state-level referendums, as an example, have resulted in the limitation of property taxes as with California's Proposition 13 and Massachusetts' Proposition 2½ in the late 20th century.\n\nThree nationwide referendums have been held so far in Brazilian history.\n\nIn 1963, the country had just adopted the parliamentary government system, but in a referendum held in 1963, the Brazilian population was consulted about which government system should be enacted in the country and it was decided to have Brazil return to a Presidential system.\n\nIn 1993, another referendum to decide Brazil's government system was held. Voters could choose to keep the presidential republic system, adopt a parliamentary republic system, or adopt a parliamentary monarchy system. The majority of voters opined to maintain the current presidential government system.\n\nIn 2005 a referendum was held to consult the population about their opinion on the possibility of forbidding the sale and civilian possession of firearms and ammunition nationwide. This referendum was offered by the government as part of a violence minimization initiative known as \"project disarmament.\" Most voters declared themselves contrary to the ban and the laws regarding commerce and ownership of weapons in the country remained unaltered.\n\nThere have been four plebiscites and one \"consultation\" in Chilean history. In 1925, a plebiscite was held over a new constitution that would replace a semi-parliamentary system with a presidential one. The \"Yes\" vote won overwhelmingly, with 95% of the vote.\n\nIn 1978, after the United Nations protested against Pinochet's régime, the country's military government held a national consultation, which asked if people supported Pinochet's rule. The \"Yes\" vote won with 74%, although the results have been questioned.\n\nAnother constitutional plebiscite was held in 1980. The \"Yes\" won with 68.5%, prolonging Pinochet's term until 1989 and replacing the 1925 Constitution with a new one still used today. The results of this plebiscite have also been questioned by Pinochet's opponents, because of the lack of voters registration.\n\nIn a historical plebiscite held in 1988, 56% voted to end the military régime. The next year, yet another plebiscite was held for constitutional changes for the transition to a democratic government (the \"Yes\" vote won with 91%).\n\nThere have been several referendums in individual municipalities in Chile since the return to civilian rule in 1990. A referendum, which took place in 2006 in Las Condes, over the construction of a mall was noteworthy for being the first instance in Chilean history where electronic voting machines were used.\n\nThe first referendum held in Costa Rica was October 7, 2007, to approve or reject the free trade agreement with Central America, Dominican Republic (Costa Rica already has FTAs with the latter) and the United States known as the Dominican Republic – Central America Free Trade Agreement (DR-CAFTA).\n\nIt was very narrowly approved (49.030 votes). Results were 51.62% voted in favour and 48.38% against it. It is currently the only free trade agreement in the world that has been approved on a referendum.\n\nFrom 2008 to 2010 conservative groups, linked to religious institutions, managed to collect 150,000 signatures to call a referendum to decline unions between same-sex couples. The Supreme Elections Tribunal (TSE) had scheduled the consultation on December 5, 2010.\n\nHowever, the Constitutional Chamber of the Supreme Court rejected the referendum stating that \"The rights of minorities that arise from anti-majoritarian claims can not be subjected to a referendum process which the majority imposes\". This consideration supports the main argument of those who rejected the consultation considered a violation of human rights, among these gay groups and humanitarian actors.\n\nThe Board further considered that \"people who have sex with same sex are a group at disadvantage and discrimination, which requires the support of public authorities for the recognition of their constitutional rights or other legislation\". Decisions of the Constitutional Court are final so the ruling stopped the referendum and opened to the Congress the opportunity to continue discussing the bill on the recognition of homosexual unions.\n\nFour Puerto Rican status referendums (in 1967, 1993, 1998 and 2012) have taken place in Puerto Rico to determine whether the insular area should become an independent nation (comprising a republic and an associated republic), apply for statehood, or maintain commonwealth (\"Estado Libre Asociado\") status. Remaining a commonwealth has been the result of the first three referendums. The fourth referendum resulted in a majority being pro-statehood. There was also a 2005 referendum (Resolution 64) to determine whether the Legislative Assembly of Puerto Rico should be restructured (among other changes to become unicameral).\n\nThe Uruguayan constitution allows citizens to challenge laws approved by Parliament by use of a referendum or to propose changes to the Constitution by the use of a plebiscite. This right has been used a few times in the past 15 years: in 1989, to confirm or reject an amnesty to members of the military who violated human rights during the military regime (1973–1985); in 1989, to increase pensioners' incomes; in 1992, to consider the partial privatization of public utilities companies; and, in 2004, to maintain water resources in government control.\n\nThe 1999 constitution of Venezuela, created by the Chávez government, and approved by referendum, brought in the concept of requiring referendums for constitutional changes, as well as providing for recall referendums of elected officials (which require petitions of a minimum percentage of voters to be submitted). In the Venezuelan recall referendum of 2004 voters determined whether or not Hugo Chávez, the former President of Venezuela, should be recalled from office. The result of the referendum was to not recall Chávez.\n\nApproval in a referendum is necessary in order to amend the Australian constitution. A bill must first be passed by both houses of Parliament or, in certain limited circumstances, by only one house of Parliament, and is then submitted to a referendum. If a majority of those voting, as well as separate majorities in each of a majority of states (and where appropriate a majority of people in any affected state) vote in favor of the amendment, it is presented for Royal Assent, given in the Queen's name by the Governor-General. Due to the specific mention of referendums in the Australian constitution, non-constitutional referendums are usually termed \"plebiscites\" in Australia.\n\nNew Zealand has two types of referendum. Government referendums are predominantly about constitutional issues. However, there are also referendums on other issues. Furthermore, constitutional issues, such as the establishment of the Supreme Court of New Zealand, may be done without a referendum. Government referendums can be binding or non-binding.\n\nSince 1993, New Zealand also has provision for non-binding citizens-initiated referendums. To initiate a citizens-initiated referendum on a particular issue, proponents of the referendum apply to the Clerk of the House of Representatives, and once the question wording is determined, proponents have twelve months to compile a petition containing signatures from at least ten percent of all registered voters. Only five citizens-initiated referendums have gone to a vote: one in 1995, two in 1999, one in 2009 and another to be held in late 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12711845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12711845", "title": "Robert E. Murray", "text": "Robert E. Murray\n\nRobert E. Murray (born January 13, 1940) is an American mining engineer and businessman. He is the chief executive officer of Murray Energy Corporation, a mining corporation based in St. Clairsville, Ohio. He is one of the largest independent operators of coal mines in the United States.\n\nMurray was born in 1940. His father was paralyzed in a mining accident when Murray was 9 years old. As a miner himself, Murray experienced two accidents on the job. Meanwhile, Murray lied about his age so he could work in a coal mine at the age of 16 and provide for his family. Murray says that he suffered through several mining accidents, including on one occasion being hit in the head with an beam made of steel. Murray says he has one scar running from his head down his back from a separate accident and at one time was trapped in a dark mine for 12 hours before being rescued.\n\nMurray was valedictorian of the Bethesda High School class of 1957. Murray received a Bachelor of Engineering in Mining from Ohio State University and completed the advanced management program at the Harvard Graduate School of Business.\n\nMurray began his mining career at the North American Coal Corporation. He served in a variety of capacities at NACC, winning election to vice president of operations in 1969. From 1974 to 1983, Murray was president of NACC's Western Division and presided over four of its subsidiaries in North Dakota. In 1974, a strike took place at the Indian Head Mine in Zap, which North American was attempting to close. In 1983, he became president and CEO of North American. In 1987, Murray was told by \"someone to whom [he] didn't even report\" that he was \"done\" at NACC. He later called the firing \"the best thing ever to happen\" to his career.\n\nMurray is a registered Professional Engineer and private pilot, as well as a member of the boards of directors of the National Mining Association, American Coal Foundation, National Coal Council, Ohio Coal Association, and Pennsylvania Coal Association. Murray is past president and a trustee of the American Institute of Mining, Metallurgical, and Petroleum Engineers, Inc., and the Society for Mining, Metallurgy and Exploration, Inc., as well as past president of The Rocky Mountain Coal Mining Institute.\n\nMurray started his company in 1988 with the purchase of a single continuous mining operation with an annual output of 1 million tons per year. Murray Energy Corporation's strategy involves acquiring high sulfur coal reserves and aiming to be the low-cost producer in primary coal-sourcing regions of the United States. This strategy was based on Murray's belief that the transportation of low-sulfur coal thousands of miles from the Powder River Basin to meet the growing demand for electricity in some parts of the country was not a viable long-term solution. At the helm of Murray Energy, he began accumulating reserves that were strategically located near customers, near favorable transportation, and high in energy content (BTU per pound).\n\nFollowing this strategy, Murray Energy acquired reserves and expanded its operations in Southern Ohio, Southwestern Pennsylvania, the Illinois Basin (Western Kentucky and Southern Illinois), and reserves and operations in Central Utah. One of Murray Energy's first acquisitions was the Powhatan No. 6 mine in Alledonia, Ohio. The Powhatan mine is the only mine operated by a Murray Energy Corporation independent operating subsidiary that is unionized.\n\nMurray Energy Corporation produces approximately 30 million tons of bituminous coal each year and employs approximately 3,000 people in the United States.\n\nIn addition to its mining operations, Murray Energy owns and operates river, truck, and rail terminals on the Ohio River; a rail loadout facility in Central Utah; and a diesel and mining equipment rebuild facility in West Virginia.\n\nMr. Murray told the White House in a letter dated August 4, 2017 that without an emergency order to restart coal-fired electrical generating plants, his company and a major customer, power plant operator FirstEnergy Solutions would declare bankruptcy.\n\nIn August 2007 six miners were trapped at the Crandall Canyon Mine in Utah, of which Murray Energy independent operating subsidiary UtahAmerican Energy had been a part-owner for 12 months. Prior to the collapse, the Crandall Canyon Mine had received 64 violations and $12,000 in fines. He says that the safety violations were trivial and included violations such as not having enough toilet paper in the restroom. However, some news agencies reported troubling violations at other Murray operations. CNN specifically cited Murray's Illinois Galatia mine, which had almost 3,500 safety citations in the prior two and a half years.\n\nMurray claims that the Crandall Canyon Mine collapse was triggered by a 3.9 magnitude earthquake, while government seismologists say the mine collapse was the cause of a coal mine bump. Richard E. Stickler, the government's top mine safety official said \"It was not—and I repeat, it was not—a natural occurring earthquake.\"\n\nDouglas S. Dreger, a seismologist at the University of California, Berkeley, said in the July 2008 issue of \"Science\" that his analysis strongly suggested that the mountain crumbled in two stages: After the pillars collapsed, giant, angled slabs of sandstone above the mine abruptly shifted. When the mine collapse finally occurred, it was so powerful that it registered as a 3.9 earthquake.\n\nAlthough the widely used industry practice of retreat mining is believed by some observers to be a cause of the mine's 2007 collapse, Murray insists the process was not responsible.\n\nOn July 24, 2008, the U.S. government's Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) announced its highest penalty for coal mine safety violations, $1.85 million, for the collapse. The government fined Genwal Resources $1.34 million \"for violations that directly contributed to the deaths of six miners last year,\" plus nearly $300,000 for other violations. The government also levied a $220,000 fine against a mining consultant, Agapito Associates, \"for faulty analysis of the mine's design.\"\n\nFollowing the Crandall Canyon tragedy, the Mine Safety and Health Administration also was faulted by its parent agency, the U.S. Department of Labor, both for lax oversight before the collapse and for its handling of a haphazard rescue effort that left three more people dead. An independent review of MSHA's role in Crandall Canyon by retired MSHA managers Earnest Teaster and Joseph Pavlovich, found that the agency failed to properly consider bounce activity in the mine prior to approving the mining plan, failed to properly evaluate the roof control plan and failed to follow established mine rescue protocols at all times at Crandall Canyon Mine. Specifically, the authors wrote that, \"MSHA's failure to adequately evaluate the roof control plans contributed to the August 6 accident.\" An independent review of MSHA's actions at Crandall Canyon also faults the agency for failing to control access to the mine, concluding that \"MSHA improperly allowed media representatives and family members to enter the rescue area, and allowed an unlimited number of persons underground during the rescue operation.\"\n\nSince 2005, the Murray Energy PAC has donated over $150,000 to Republican candidates, including donations totaling $30,000 to Senate candidates such as George Allen, Sam Brownback, and Katherine Harris. The Ohio Valley Coal PAC, another group affiliated with Murray Energy, donated $10,000 for George W. Bush's 2000 Presidential campaign.\n\nIn 2009, Murray Energy donated $20,000 to support the development of a state-of-the-art mine training facility at West Virginia University and $10,000 to support the construction of a similar facility at Southeastern Illinois College. Murray also made a personal gift of $1 million to the West Virginia University Research Trust Fund—the largest single donation in the fund's history—and the university established the Robert E. Murray Chairmanship of Mining Engineering in his honor.\n\nIn addition to serving on the board of directors of the National Mining Association, Murray actively lobbies for pro-industry legislation through his company's political action committee. In 2001, he testified on behalf of the NMA before a House Ways and Means subcommittee in favor of proposed tax cuts.\n\nIn the wake of 2006's Sago Mine disaster, lawmakers in West Virginia and Ohio proposed legislation requiring mine workers to wear emergency tracking devices. Murray lobbied against the laws, calling them \"extremely misguided.\" He said that politicians were rushing to pass laws and thus \"playing politics with the safety of my employees.\" Murray said that rather than create \"knee-jerk\" state laws after the disaster, such as in the case of West Virginia, which passed the law in less than one day after it was proposed, the federal government should host a panel which would study the industry and make recommendations for safety measures.\n\nMurray claimed that the federal government should be involved for uniform standards and because tension between unions and companies created difficulty in reaching private agreement on safety standards. Murray maintained that the personal tracking devices to be mandated in the state laws, called PEDs, did not work under certain common mining conditions (such as below in depth), and better devices needed to be developed in order to effectively guard miners in case of accident. He said, \"The will is there. Unfortunately, the technology isn't.\"\n\nMurray has stated that he supported federal mandates for drug testing and fire prevention.\n\nOn August 14, 2012, Murray hosted Mitt Romney at Murray Energy's Century coal mine in Beallsville, Ohio. Several miners contacted a nearby morning talk radio host, David Blomquist to complain that they were forced to attend the rally without pay. Murray chief operating officer Robert Moore said: \"Attendance was mandatory but no one was forced to attend the event.\" Murray closed the mine the day of the rally and suspended pay to workers, arguing that the rally was important to the coal industry and that attending was in the workers' \"best interest.\" Murray and his corporation were a major donor to Romney and other Republicans, and employees report frequent instances of political pressure from management.\n\nIn October 2012, the non-profit group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington filed a complaint with the Federal Election Commission against Murray and his company alleging violations of federal campaign law in which employees of Murray Energy were supposedly required to give one percent of their salary to the company's political action committee.\n\nOn November 9, 2012, three days following the presidential election, Murray laid off 156 workers, citing a supposed \"war on coal\" by the Obama administration as the reason for his decision.\n\nDuring the 2016 US Presidential election Murray Energy donated over $300k towards Donald Trump's election.\n\nMurray has filed over a dozen defamation lawsuits against journalists and newspapers, none of which reached judgment in his favor. On August 27, 2012, Robert Murray and Murray Energy filed a lawsuit against environment reporter Ken Ward Jr. and the Charleston Gazette. The lawsuit alleges Ken Ward Jr. posted libelous statements on his blog. Murray claims the blog post entitled \"Mitt Romney, Murray Energy and Coal Criminals\" has damaged his business, reputation, and has jeopardized the jobs Murray Energy provides in Belmont County, Ohio.\n\nIn June 2017, Murray Energy issued a cease and desist letter to the television show \"Last Week Tonight\" following the show's attempt to obtain comment about the coal industry. The show went ahead with the episode (June 18), in which host John Oliver discussed the Crandall Canyon Mine collapse and expressed the opinion that Murray did not do enough to protect his miners' safety. Three days later, Murray and his companies brought suit against Oliver, the show's writers, HBO, and Time Warner. The lawsuit alleged that, in the \"Last Week Tonight\" show, Oliver \"incited viewers to do harm to Mr. Murray and his companies.\" The ACLU filed an amicus brief in support of HBO in the case; the brief has been described as \"hilarious,\" and the \"snarkiest legal brief ever.\"\nThe brief also included a comparison of Murray with the fictional character Dr. Evil that was used in the Oliver show, with the explanation that \"it should be remembered that truth is an absolute defense to a claim of defamation.\"\n\nOn August 11, 2017 a federal district court judge ruled that the New York Times and the HBO suit could each proceed in a lower state court. The HBO suit was dismissed with prejudice on February 21, 2018.\n\nMurray has been a critic of the scientific opinion on climate change. In June 2007, he told the United States Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works that \"the science of global warming is suspect.\" He also wrote in a May 2007 MarketWatch editorial: \"The actual environmental risk associated with carbon emissions is highly speculative.\"\n\nIn a 2007 speech to the New York Coal Trade Association, Murray called Al Gore \"the shaman of global gloom and doom\" and added \"he is more dangerous than his global warming.\"\n\nMurray is a particular opponent of proposed global warming legislation in Congress, saying:\n\nWe produce a product that is essential to the standard of living of every American because our coal produces 52% of the energy in America today, and it is the lowest cost energy, costing 1/3 to 1/4 the cost of energy from natural gas, nuclear and renewable energy resources. And without coal to manufacture electricity our products will not compete in the global marketplace against foreign countries because our manufacturers depend on coal, low cost electricity and people on fixed incomes will not be able to pay their electric bills. Every one of those global warming bills that have been introduced into Congress today eliminates the coal industry and will increase your electric rates, four to five fold.\n\nFollowing the presidential election in November 2016, Murray pressed for Donald Trump to withdraw the United States from all international agreements on climate change and stated \"so-called global warming is a total hoax.\"\n\nMurray resides in Moreland Hills, Ohio with his wife, Brenda Lou Moore. They have three grown children.\n\nMurray has stated that he suffers from idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, a scarring of the lung tissue leading to shortness of breath.\n\n"}
{"id": "44379754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44379754", "title": "Socialist calculation debate", "text": "Socialist calculation debate\n\nThe socialist calculation debate (sometimes known as the economic calculation debate) was a discourse on the subject of how a socialist economy would perform economic calculation given the absence of the law of value, money, financial prices for capital goods, and private ownership of the means of production. More specifically, the debate was centered on the application of economic planning for the allocation of the means of production as a substitute for capital markets, and whether or not such an arrangement would be superior to capitalism in terms of efficiency and productivity.\n\nA central aspect of the debate concerned the role and scope of the law of value in a socialist economy.\n\nAlthough contributions to the question of economic coordination and calculation under socialism existed within the socialist movement prior to the 20th century, the phrase \"socialist calculation debate\" emerged in the 1920s beginning with Ludwig von Mises' critique of socialism. The historical debate was cast between the Austrian school of economics, represented by Ludwig von Mises and Friedrich Hayek, who argued against the feasibility of socialism, and between neoclassical economists and Marxian economists, most notably Cläre Tisch (as a forerunner), Oskar Lange, Abba Lerner, Fred M. Taylor, Henry Douglas Dickinson and Maurice Dobb, who took the position that socialism was both feasible and superior to capitalism.\n\nThe debate was popularly viewed as a debate between proponents of capitalism and proponents of socialism, but in reality a significant portion of the debate was between socialists who held differing views regarding the utilization of markets and money in a socialist system and to what degree the law of value would continue to operate in a hypothetical socialist economy. Socialists generally held one of three major positions regarding the unit of calculation, including the view that money would continue to be the unit of calculation under socialism; that labor-time would be a unit of calculation; or that socialism would be based on calculation in natura or calculation performed in-kind.\n\nDebate among socialists has existed since the emergence of the broader socialist movement between those advocating market socialism, centrally planned economies and decentralized economic planning. Recent contributions to the debate in the late 20th century and early 21st century involve proposals for market socialism and the use of information technology and distributed networking as a basis for decentralized economic planning.\n\nKarl Marx and Friedrich Engels held a broad characterization of socialism, characterized by some form of public or common ownership of the means of production and worker self-management within economic enterprises, and where production of economic value for profit would be replaced by an \"ex ante\" production directly for use, which implied some form of economic planning and \"planned\" growth in place of the dynamic of capital accumulation, and therefore the substitution of commodity-based production and market-based allocation of the factors of production with conscious planning.\n\nAlthough Marx and Engels never elaborated on the specific institutions that would exist in socialism or on processes for conducting planning in a socialist system, their broad characterizations laid the foundation for the general conception of socialism as an economic system devoid of the law of value and law of accumulation, and principally, where the category of value was replaced by calculation in terms of natural or physical units so that resource allocation, production and distribution would be considered technical affairs to be undertaken by engineers and technical specialists.\n\nAn alternative view of socialism prefiguring the neoclassical models of market socialism consisted of conceptions of market socialism based on classical economic theory and Ricardian socialism, where markets were utilized to allocate capital goods among worker-owned cooperatives in a free-market economy. The key characteristics of this system involved direct worker ownership of the means of production through producer and consumer cooperatives and the achievement of genuinely free markets by removing the distorting effects of private property, inequality arising from private appropriation of profits and interest to a rentier class, regulatory capture, and economic exploitation. This view was expounded by Mutualist philosophy and was severely criticized by Marxists for failing to address the fundamental issues of capitalism involving instability arising from the operation of the law of value, crises caused by over-accumulation of capital and lack of conscious control over the surplus product. As a result, this perspective played little to no role during the socialist calculation debate in the early 20th century.\n\nEarly arguments against the utilization of central economic planning for a socialist economy were brought up by proponents of decentralized economic planning or market socialism, including Leon Trotsky, Peter Kropotkin and Pierre-Joseph Proudhon. In general, it was argued that centralized forms of economic planning that excluded participation by the workers involved in the industries would not be sufficient at capturing adequate amounts of information to coordinate an economy effectively, while also undermining socialism and the concept of worker's self-management and democratic decision-making central to socialism. However, no detailed outlines for decentralized economic planning were proposed by these thinkers at this time.\n\nIn the early 20th century, Enrico Barone provided a comprehensive theoretical framework for a planned socialist economy. In his model, assuming perfect computation techniques, simultaneous equations relating inputs and outputs to ratios of equivalence would provide appropriate valuations in order to balance supply and demand.\n\nCalculation in kind, or calculation in \"natura\", was often assumed to be the standard form of accounting that would take place in a socialist system where the economy was mobilized in terms of physical or natural units instead of money and financial calculation.\n\nOtto Neurath was adamant that a socialist economy must be moneyless because measures of money failed to capture adequate information regarding material well-being of consumers or failed to factor in all costs and benefits from performing a particular action. He argued that relying on any single unit – whether they be labor-hours or kilowatt-hours – would be inadequate, and that demand and calculations be performed by the relevant disaggregated natural units (i.e.: kilowatts, tons, meters, etc.).\n\nIn the 1930s, Soviet mathematician Leonid Kantorovich demonstrated how an economy, in purely physical terms, could use determinate mathematical procedure to determine which combination of techniques could be used to achieve certain output or plan targets.\n\nIn contrast to Neurath, Karl Kautsky argued that money would have to be utilized in a socialist economy. Kautsky states the fundamental difference between socialism and capitalism is not the absence of money in the former; rather, the important difference is in the ability for money to become capital under capitalism. In a socialist economy, there would be no incentive to use money as financial capital, thus money would have a slightly different role in socialism.\n\nJan Appel drafted a contribution to the Socialist calculation debate, which then went through a discussion process before being published as \"Foundations of Communist Production and Distribution\" by the Kommunistische Arbeiter-Union Deutschlands in 1930. An English translation by Mike Baker was published in 1990.\n\nLudwig von Mises' argument against socialism was in response to Otto Neurath. Mises argued that money and market-determined prices for the means of production were essential in order to make rational decisions regarding their allocation and use.\n\nBryan Caplan, an anarcho-capitalist economist, has criticized the version of the calculation problem advanced by Mises arguing that the lack of economic calculation makes socialism impossible (not merely inefficient).\nCaplan recognizes that socialism makes economic calculation impossible, yet that problem may not be severe enough to make socialism impossible (\"beyond the realm of possibility\").\n\nFor instance, he points out that the fall of the Soviet Union does not prove that calculation was the main issue there. More likely the problems resulted from bad incentives arising out of the one-party political system and degree of power granted to the party-elite.\n\nOskar Lange responded to Mises' assertion that socialism and social ownership of the means of production implied that rational calculation was impossible by outlining a model of socialism based on neoclassical economics. Lange conceded that calculations would have to be done in value terms rather than using purely natural or engineering criteria, but asserted that these values could be attained without capital markets and private ownership of the means of production. In Lange's view, this model qualified as socialist because the means of production would be publicly owned with returns to the public enterprises accruing to society as a whole in a social dividend, while worker's self-management could be introduced in the public enterprises.\n\nThis model came to be referred to as the \"Lange model\". In this model, a Central Planning Board (CPB) would be responsible for setting prices through a trial-and-error approach to establish equilibrium prices, effectively running a Walrasian auction. Managers of the state-owned firms would be instructed to set prices to equal marginal cost (P=MC), so that economic equilibrium and Pareto efficiency would be achieved. The Lange model was expanded upon by Abba Lerner and became known as the Lange-Lerner theorem.\n\nPaul Auerbach and Dimitris Sotiropoulos have criticized the Lange model for degrading the definition of socialism to a form of \"capitalism without capital markets\" attempting to replicate capitalism's efficiency achievements through economic planning. Auerbach and Sotiropoulos argue that Hayek provided an analysis of the dynamics of capitalism that is more consistent with Marxian analysis because Hayek viewed finance as a fundamental aspect of capitalism and any move (through collective ownership or policy reform) to undermine the role of capital markets would threaten the integrity of the capitalist system. According to Auerbach and Sotiropoulos, Hayek gives an unexpected endorsement to socialism that is more sophisticated than Lange's superficial defense of \"socialism\".\n\nPeter Joseph argues for a transition from fragmented economic data relay to fully integrated, sensor-based digital systems. Using an internet of sensory instruments to measure, track, and feed back information, this can unify numerous disparate elements and systems, greatly advancing awareness and efficiency potentials.\n\nIn an economic context, this approach could relay and connect data regarding how best to manage resources, production processes, distribution, consumption, recycling, waste disposal behavior, consumer demand, and so on. Such a process of networked economic feedback would work on the same principle as modern systems of inventory and distribution found in major commercial warehouses. Many companies today use a range of sensors and sophisticated tracking means to understand rates of demands, exactly what they have, where it is or where it may be moving, and when it is gone. It is ultimately an issue of detail and scalability to extend this kind of awareness to all sectors of the economy, macro and micro.\n\nNot only is price no longer needed to gain critical economic feedback, but the information price communicates is long delayed and incomplete in terms of economic measures required to dramatically increase efficiency. Mechanisms related networked digital feedback systems make it possible to efficiently monitor shifting consumer preference, demand, supply, and labor value, virtually in real time. Moreover, it can also be used to observe other technical processes price cannot, such as shifts in production protocols, allocation, recycling means, and so on. \n\nAs of February 2018, it is now possible to track trillions of economic interactions related to the supply chain and consumer behavior by way of sensors and digital relay, as seen with the advent of Amazon Go.\n\nPaul Cockshott and Allin Cottrell, and Andy Pollack have proposed new forms of coordination based on modern information technology for non-market socialism. They argue that economic planning in terms of physical units without any reference to money or prices is computationally tractable given the high-performance computers available for particle physics and weather forecasting. Cybernetic planning would involve an \"a priori\" simulation of the equilibration process that idealized markets are intended to achieve.\n\nProposals for decentralized economic planning emerged in the late 20th century in the form of participatory economics and negotiated coordination.\n\nDavid McMullen argues that social ownership of the means of production and the absence of markets for them is fully compatible with a decentralized price system. In a post-capitalist society, transactions between enterprises would entail transfers of social property between custodians rather than an exchange of ownership. Individuals would be motivated by the satisfaction from work and the desire to contribute to good economic outcomes rather than material reward. Bids and offer prices would aim to minimize costs and ensure that output is guided by expected final demand for private and collective consumption. Enterprises and startups would receive their investment funding from project assessment agencies. The required change in human behavior would take a number generations and would have to overcome considerable resistance. However, McMullen believes that economic and cultural development increasingly favors the transition.\n\nJames Yunker argues that public ownership of the means of production can be achieved the same way private ownership is achieved in modern capitalism through the shareholder system that separates management from ownership. Yunker posits that social ownership can be achieved by having a public body, designated the Bureau of Public Ownership (BPO), owning the shares of publicly listed firms without affecting market-based allocation of capital inputs. Yunker termed this model \"Pragmatic market socialism\" and argued that it would be at least as efficient as modern-day capitalism while providing superior social outcomes as public ownership of large and established enterprises would enable profits to be distributed among the entire population rather than going largely to a class of inheriting rentiers.\n\nBeginning in the 1970s new insights into the socialist calculation debate emerged from mechanism design theory. According to mechanism design theorists, the debate between Hayek and Lange became a stalemate that lasted for forty years because neither side was speaking the same language as the other – partially because the appropriate language for discussing socialist calculation had not yet been invented. According to these theorists, what was needed was a better understanding of the informational problems that prevent coordination between people. By fusing game theory with information economics, mechanism design provided the language and framework in which both socialists and advocates of capitalism could compare the merits of their arguments. As Palda (2013) writes in his summary of the contributions of mechanism design to the socialist calculation debate, “It seemed that socialism and capitalism were good at different things. Socialism suffered from cheating, or 'moral hazard', more than capitalism because it did not allow company managers to own shares in their own companies... The flip side of the cheating problem in socialism is the lying or 'adverse selection' problem in capitalism. If potential firm managers are either good or bad, but telling them apart is difficult, bad prospects will lie to become a part of the firm.”\n\nIn his book \"Whither socialism?\", Joseph Stiglitz criticized models of market socialism from the era of the socialist calculation debate in the 1930s as part of a more general criticism of neoclassical general equilibrium theory, proposing that market models be augmented with insights from information economics.\n\nAlec Nove and Janos Kornai held similar positions regarding economic equilibrium. Both Nove and Kornai argued that, because perfect equilibrium does not exist, a comprehensive economic plan for production cannot be formulated, making planning ineffective just as real-world market economies do not conform to the hypothetical state of perfect competition. In his book \"The Economics of Feasible Socialism\" Alec Nove outlined a solution involving a socialist economy consisting of a mixture of macro-economic planning with market-based coordination for enterprises, where large industries would be publicly owned and small- to medium-sized concerns would be organized as cooperatively owned enterprises.\n\n"}
{"id": "27968513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27968513", "title": "The Road to Hell (book)", "text": "The Road to Hell (book)\n\nThe Road to Hell: The Ravaging Effects of Foreign Aid and International Charity, by Michael Maren, is a book about good intentions gone awry, in the realm of charitable assistance to Africa. The author argues that the international aid industry is a big business more concerned with winning its next big government contract than helping needy people. The focus of the book is Somalia. Among the organizations criticized are World Vision, Save the Children, Christian Children's Fund, UNICEF, CARE, Catholic Relief Services, and USAID. The book argues that relief aid helped bolster the regime of Siad Barre. The book has been cited by some academics as evidence that violent competition for control over large-scale food aid contributed to the breakdown of government in Somalia.\n"}
{"id": "1982542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1982542", "title": "The Singing Senators", "text": "The Singing Senators\n\nThe Singing Senators were a group of U.S. Republican Senators who sang as a barbershop quartet.\n\nRepresentation as of 2000:\n\n\nIn 1995, at New Hampshire Senator Bob Smith's birthday party, Ashcroft, Jeffords, Lott, and Connie Mack of Florida sang \"Happy Birthday\". Later, when Senator Bob Packwood of Oregon was having a birthday party, Jeffords called Lott and suggested that the four of them sing at the party. Mack declined, but Larry Craig joined. According to his autobiography, \"Herding Cats, A Life in Politics\", Lott formed the group in large part to improve relations between the Republican Conference, of which Lott was Majority Leader, and Jeffords, a Republican who frequently voted with the Democrats.\n\nDuring the initial years, the four Senators usually practiced in Lott's hideaway office. Guy Hovis, the Mississippi state director for Lott, was a talented musician who gave the Senators some training. They all practiced together every day.\n\nTheir first official performance of the group was in October 1995 at a Young Political Leaders of America meeting. In December 1995, the group appeared on \"The Today Show\".\n\nIn April 1996, the Oak Ridge Boys sang with the group at a Senate reception, something described in \"The Hill\", a Capitol Hill newspaper, as \"Congressional Harmony\". In September 1996 the group performed again with the Oak Ridge Boys in Branson, Missouri. The same year, the senators sang at the 1996 Republican National Convention.\n\nIn 1998 the group released their only album, \"Let Freedom Sing\", a ten-song CD recorded in Nashville. In 2000, clips of the group's songs could be streamed from the Senate pages of Ashcroft and Jeffords.\n\nIn November 2000, Ashcroft lost his Senate re-election race (he was appointed Attorney General in early 2001). In May 2001, Jeffords announced he was leaving the Republican Party to become an Independent, returning control of the Senate to the Democrats. The two events, combined, led to the apparent demise of the group.\n\nIn October 2006, Singing Senators Lott and Craig said they were putting the quartet back together after a six-year hiatus. They said they had found two solid prospects in Senators Bob Bennett (R-Utah) and John Thune (R-S.D.)\n\nIn June 2007, Singing Senators Ashcroft, Craig, and Lott gave their first public performance in more than six years. Senator Craig was subsequently inducted into the Idaho Hall of Fame, having been selected in March 2007. Craig said that the group was now a trio. Lott's announced resignation in 2007 seemed to put the existence of even a trio in doubt. Craig's decision to not run for another term in 2008—due in part to the controversy over his arrest for solicitation the previous year—spelled the formal end of the group.\n\n"}
{"id": "603683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=603683", "title": "Third Way (UK organisation)", "text": "Third Way (UK organisation)\n\nThe Third Way is a former political party and now a think tank that researches and debates themes relevant to nationalists. It was founded as a political party on 17 March 1990. \n\nAccording to accounts filed with the Electoral Commission, in 2006, Third Way had 20 members and cashflow of approximately £1,400. In December 2010, the membership was 21. It decided to revert to being a think tank and de-registered as a political party.\n\nIt should not be confused with the Third Way ideology promoted by Tony Blair, Bill Clinton and Gerhard Schröder, which it condemns as a revised form of social democracy. It is not related to the Christian \"Third Way\" magazine.\n\nThird Way describes itself as representing:\n\nLeading members of the Third Way were previously in the National Front, voting to disband it in 1989:\nAlso mentioned on the biographies section of the Third Way website are Roy Kerridge and US-based racial-separatist rabbi Mayer Schiller.\n\nThird Way supported the English Lobby, a pressure group and electoral coalition founded in 2004 that campaigns for the recognition of St George's Day and the creation of an English parliament.\n\nThird Way supporters assisted in the foundation of the BNP-linked Solidarity – The Union for British Workers.\n\nThe Third Way has operated, or is closely associated with, various publications and websites, including:\n\nIn 1999, new electoral organisation the National Liberal Party was formed by Patrick Harrington and Graham Williamson and registered as National Liberal Party – The Third Way with the Electoral Commission. It fought parliamentary elections in Hornchurch (in 2001 and 2005), Belfast West (2001, as Ulster Third Way), Upminster (2005) and Eastleigh (2010) but obtained below 1% of the vote in each case.\n\nIn the 2014 European elections, the National Liberal Party stood with 8 candidates in the London constituency, gaining 6,736 votes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42771763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42771763", "title": "Timeline of the 2014 Indian general election", "text": "Timeline of the 2014 Indian general election\n\nThis article outlines the events leading up to the Indian general election, 2014 from 7 April to 12 May 2014, starting with the prior election in 2009.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "175080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=175080", "title": "Tribalism", "text": "Tribalism\n\nTribalism is the state of being organized by, or advocating for, tribes or tribal lifestyles. Human evolution has primarily occurred in small groups, as opposed to mass societies, and humans naturally maintain a social network. In popular culture, tribalism may also refer to a way of thinking or behaving in which people are loyal to their social group above all else, or, derogatorily, a type of discrimination or animosity based upon group differences.\n\nThe word \"tribe\" can be defined to mean an extended kin group or clan with a common ancestor, or can also be described as a group with shared interests, lifestyles and habits. The proverb \"birds of a feather flock together\" describes homophily, the human tendency to form friendship networks with people of similar occupations, interests, habits. Some tribes can be located in geographically proximate areas, like villages or bands, though telecommunications enables groups of people to form digital tribes using tools like social networking websites.\n\nIn terms of conformity,\ntribalism has been defined as a \"subjectivity\" or \"way of being\" social frame in which communities are bound socially beyond immediate birth ties by the dominance of various modalities of face-to-face and object integration. Ontologically, tribalism is oriented around the valences of analogy, genealogy and mythology. That means that customary tribes have their social foundations in some variation of these tribal orientations, while often taking on traditional practices (e.g. Abrahamic religions such as Christianity, Judaism, and Islam), and modern practices, including monetary exchange, mobile communications, and modern education.\n\nThe social structure of a tribe can vary greatly from case to case, but the relatively small size of customary tribes makes social life in such of tribes usually involve a relatively undifferentiated role structure, with few significant political or economic distinctions between individuals.\n\nTribalism implies the possession of a strong cultural or ethnic identity that separates one member of a group from the members of another group. Based on strong relations of proximity and kinship, members of a tribe tend to possess a strong feeling of identity. Objectively, for a customary tribal society to form there needs to be ongoing customary organization, enquiry and exchange. However, intense feelings of common identity can lead people to feel tribally connected.\n\nThe distinction between these two definitions for \"tribalism\", objective and subjective, is an important one because while \"tribal societies\" have been pushed to the edges of the Western world, \"tribalism\", by the second definition, is arguably undiminished. A few writers have postulated that the human brain is hard-wired towards tribalism by its evolutionary advantages, but that claim is usually linked to equating original questions of sociality with tribalism.\n\nA tribe often refers to itself using its own language's word for \"people\", and refers to other, neighboring tribes with various epithets. For example, the term \"Inuit\" translates to \"people\".\n\nTribalism has a very adaptive effect in human evolution. Humans are social animals and ill-equipped to live on their own. Tribalism and social bonding help to keep individuals committed to the group, even when personal relations may fray. That keeps individuals from wandering off or joining other groups. It also leads to bullying when a tribal member is unwilling to conform to the politics of the collective.\n\nSome scholars argue that inclusive fitness in humans involves kin selection and kin altruism, in which groups of an extended family with shared genes help others with similar genes, based on their coefficient of relationship (the amount of genes they have in common). Other scholars argue that fictive kinship is common in human organizations, allowing non-kin members to collaborate in groups like fraternities.\n\nSocially, divisions between groups fosters specialized interactions with others, based on association: altruism (positive interactions with unrelated members), kin-selectivity (positive interactions with related members) and violence (negative interactions). Thus, groups with a strong sense of unity and identity can benefit from kin selection behaviour such as common property and shared resources. The tendencies of members to unite against an outside tribe and the ability to act violently and prejudicially against that outside tribe likely boosted the chances of survival in genocidal conflicts.\n\nModern examples of tribal genocide rarely reflect the defining characteristics of tribes existing prior to the Neolithic Revolution; for example, small population and close-relatedness.\n\nAccording to a study by Robin Dunbar at the University of Liverpool, primate brain size is determined by social group size. Dunbar's conclusion was that most human brains can really understand only an average of 150 individuals as fully developed, complex people. That is known as Dunbar's number. In contrast, anthropologist H. Russell Bernard and Peter Killworth have done a variety of field studies in the United States that came up with an estimated mean number of ties, 290, roughly double Dunbar's estimate. The Bernard–Killworth median of 231 is lower because of upward straggle in the distribution, but it is still appreciably larger than Dunbar's estimate.\n\nMalcolm Gladwell expanded on this conclusion sociologically in his book, \"The Tipping Point\", where members of one of his types, \"Connectors\", were successful by their larger-than-average number of close friendships and capacity for maintaining them, which tie together otherwise-unconnected social groups. According to such studies, then, \"tribalism\" is in some sense an inescapable fact of human neurology simply because many human brains are not adapted to working with large populations. Once a person's limit for connection is reached, the human brain must resort to some combination of hierarchical schemes, stereotypes and other simplified models to understand so many people.\n\nAnthropologists engage in ongoing debate on the phenomenon of warfare among tribes. While fighting typically and certainly occurs among horticultural tribes, an open question remains whether such warfare is a typical feature of hunter-gatherer life or is an anomaly found only in certain circumstances, such as scarce resources (as with the Inuit or Arabs) or only among food-producing societies. There is also ample evidence that the level of violence among tribal societies is greater than the levels of violence among Western and European societies.\n\nTribes use forms of subsistence such as horticulture and foraging that cannot yield the same number of absolute calories as agriculture. That limits tribal populations significantly, especially when compared to agricultural populations. Lawrence Keeley writes in \"War Before Civilization\" that examples exist with low percentage rates of casualties in tribal battle, and some tribal battles were much more lethal as a percentage of population than, for example, the Battle of Gettysburg. He concludes that no evidence consistently indicates that primitive battles are proportionately less lethal than \"civilized\" ones.\n\nThe realistic conflict theory is a model of intergroup conflict, arguing that in a real or perceived zero-sum system, conflicts arise over shared interests for finite resources. The 1954 Robbers Cave Experiment involved researchers putting 12-year old boys into groups, where they formed their own ingroups, before then developing hostility and negativity towards the other group during simulated conflict over finite resources in a zero-sum game.\n\n"}
{"id": "38839872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38839872", "title": "Valérie Bemeriki", "text": "Valérie Bemeriki\n\nValérie Bemeriki (born 1955) was a presenter on the Rwandan radio station Radio Télévision Libre des Mille Collines (RTLM), which played a significant role in promoting the Rwandan Genocide.\n\nAlthough born in Rutshuru, Democratic Republic of Congo (then Belgian Congo), Bemeriki's hometown is Giciye commune, Gisenyi préfecture, in Rwanda. Prior to working at RTLM, Bemeriki worked for the ruling MRND party as a propagandist, also writing for the Interahamwe's (MRND's youth wing) publication.\n\nOne of the main \"animatrices\" of RTLM, Bemeriki frequently read out names and addresses of alleged \"RPF accomplices\", inciting targeted violence and often murder on the named individuals by groups such as the Impuzamugambi and Interahamwe militias. Bemeriki's style of presenting was representative of RTLM's overall hateful rhetoric, used alongside a colloquial type of tongue-in-cheek humor. On April 8, 1994, two days after the assassination of Rwandan president Juvénal Habyarimana, Bemeriki ironically noted on air that opposition members of the previous government \"could not be found\", while several, such as prime minister Agathe Uwilingiyimana had already been murdered. Based on an encounter at an interview at the offices of RTLM, Roméo Dallaire, the Force Commander of UNAMIR, has described Bemeriki as \"very aggressive.\" On June 28, 1994, over a month after the interview, Bemeriki claimed on-air that \"Dallaire is the basis of this war.\"\n\nAfter Kantano Habimana, Bemeriki was the announcer with the second most airtime, approximately 17% of all RTLM broadcasts.\n\nFollowing the genocide, Bemeriki was named as one its 2,133 \"planners, organizers, instigators, supervisors and leaders\" in accordance with the \"Genocide Law of the Republic of Rwanda (1996)\".\n\nBemeriki fled Kigali for her native Zaire in July 1994 and was arrested in Minova, near Bukavu in the (by then renamed) Democratic Republic of Congo on the 13th of June, 1999 by the Rwandan military.\n"}
{"id": "432458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=432458", "title": "Via Campesina", "text": "Via Campesina\n\nLa Vía Campesina (from Spanish \"la vía campesina\", the campesino way, or the peasants' way) was founded in 1993 by farmers organizations from Europe, Latin America, Asia, North America, Central America and Africa. It describes itself as \"an international movement which coordinates peasant organizations of small and middle-scale producers, agricultural workers, rural women, and indigenous communities from Asia, Africa, America, and Europe\". It is a coalition of 182 organisations in 81 countries, advocating family-farm-based sustainable agriculture and was the group that coined the term \"food sovereignty\". La Vía Campesina has carried out a campaign to defend farmer's seeds, a campaign to stop violence against women, a campaign for the recognition of the rights of peasants, a global campaign for agrarian reform, and others.\n\nStarting in the 1980s governments were intervening less in the rural countryside, which weakened corporate control over peasants' organizations while making a living in agriculture was getting more difficult. As a result, national peasant groups began to form ties with transnational organizations, starting in Latin America and then on a global scale.\n\nThe peasants' rights movement emerged from the new rights advocacy which had arisen in the 1990s; during that time, human rights and development agendas became integrated which expanded from political and civil rights to include social and economic rights. The agrarian peasants' movement moved to challenge the hegemonic ideology of neoliberalism in global economics and to find alternatives that would protect the rights of workers around the world.\n\nThe organization was founded in 1993 by farmers organizations from Europe, Latin America, Asia, North America, Central America and Africa. The foundation followed the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), where the World Trade Organization's Agreement on Agriculture and the Trade Related Intellectual Property Rights were signed and approved. These agreements caused backlash from many people around the world for focusing on technical problems rather than the human right to access to food, especially for those living in the Global South. Globalization was under way at this time, affecting many industries including agriculture. La Vía Campesina gave small farmers a platform to have their voices heard about how these changes were impacting their lives. The movement has grown and is now recognized as a part of the global dialogue on food and agriculture, having presented to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and the UN Human Rights Council in the past.\n\nAccording to La Via Campesina's webpage, the movements main issues are promoting food sovereignty; demanding agrarian reform; people's control over land, water, territories; resisting free-trade; promoting popular peasant feminism;upholding human rights, rights of migrant workers; promoting agroecology; promoting peasant seeds systems; increasing the participation of youth in agriculture. In recent years, the movement has placed greater emphasis on gender issues and women's rights, and strengthened its opposition to transnational corporations. It has also focused on gaining recognition for the discourse around food sovereignty, reclaiming the term \"peasant\" and recreating a shared peasant identity across national borders and cultures. La Vía Campesina also partners with other social movements and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) to strengthen its international presence.\n\nDemocratic decision-making is central to the mission of La Vía Campesina, and it has been dedicated to fair representation and engagement of all participants, making structural changes when necessary. The perspectives of people around the world are needed to assess and improve global food production and sovereignty. Part of this effort for equality among movement members is creating a shared peasant identity. The reclaiming of this identity has been called \"re-peasantization\". According to Desmarais (2008), the term \"peasant\" in English has a connotation related to feudalism, but in other languages and contexts, the meaning is broader; \"campesino\" comes from the word \"campo\", meaning \"countryside\", which ties the people to the land. This feudalist connotation is one reason why the organization chose not to translate its name into English.\n\nIn November 2017, La Vía Campesina received the XV Navarra International Prize for Solidarity (Premio Internacional Navarra a la Solidaridad).\n\nIn June 2017, the autonomous, pluralist and multicultural movement, which is entirely independent from any political or economical affiliation, was awarded the Lush Spring Prize Influence Award\n\nIn 2015, the organization received an award from the Latin American Scientific Society for Agroecology (SOCLA) \"in recognition of its example of tireless struggle in favor of agroecology and the rights of peasants, in carrying out its mission to take care of the earth, feed the world, conserve biodiversity and cool the planet, through its constant search for food sovereignty in Latin America.\"\n\nIn 2004, La Vía Campesina was awarded the International Human Rights Award by Global Exchange, in San Francisco.\n\nLa Vía Campesina is a grassroots movement, with activism at the local and national level. Members come from 81 countries, organised into 9 regions. The International Coordinating Committee is represented by one man and one woman per region and one youth per continent, each elected by their respective region's member organisations. With about 182 local and national organisations as part of the movement, La Via Campesina represents an estimated 200 million farmers around the world.\n\nAccording to Menser (2008), La Via Campesina is an example of the success and expansion of transnational movements in regards to participatory democracy due to its organization model and adaptation to ensure fair representation.\n\nRepresentatives from each region meet at International Conferences roughly every four years. Past meetings were held in Mons in 1993, Tlaxcala City in 1996, Bangalore in 2000, São Paulo in 2004, Maputo in 2008, Jakarta in 2013, and Derio in 2017. The international secretariat changes its central location every 4 years based on the decision made at the International Conference. Past locations were Belgium (1993-1996), Honduras (1997-2004), and Indonesia (2005-2013).\n\nSince September 2013, the secretariat has been in Harare, Zimbabwe. The current General Coordinator is Elizabeth Mpofu, who focuses on violence against women, youth voices, and global seed freedom.\n\nGender was ignored as a consideration at the start of the movement. At the signing of the Managua Declaration - the precursor to La Vía Campesina - all 8 people present were men. Peasant women started to become more involved and pushing for women's rights at the International Conference in Tlaxcala in 1996. At this meeting, they decided to form a committee dedicated to women's rights and gender issues, which eventually became the Vía Campesina's Women's Commission. The women on the committee were also heavily involved in editing the draft of the cornerstone position on food sovereignty that was presented at the World Food Summit in 1996. They included health as a consideration for food production without agro-chemicals, as well as the importance of women's involvement in policy changes because women typically were barred from political involvement. The women of La Vía Campesina are still working for greater representation and engagement of peasant women, especially in leadership positions.\n\nLa Via Campesina introduced the right of food sovereignty at the World Food Summit in 1996 as \"the right of peoples to healthy and culturally appropriate food produced through sustainable methods and their right to define their own food and agriculture systems.\" The phrase \"culturally appropriate\" signifies that the food that is available and accessible for the population should fit with the cultural background of the people consuming it. For example, subsidised and imported wheat products would not fall under this category in a country where corn-based foods were the basis of traditional meals.\nSource: Rosset (2003).\n\nFood sovereignty differs from food security. Food security was defined as \"physical, social, and economic access to sufficient, safe, and nutritious food... at all times to meet [the population's] dietary and food preferences for an active and healthy life\" by D. Moyo at the American Society of International Law annual meeting in 2007. Food security is more focused on the provision of food for all by whatever means necessary, whether by local production or global imports. As a result, economic policies concerned with food security typically emphasize industrial farming that can produce more food cheaper.\n\nFriedmann defines a food regime as a “rule governed structure of production and consumption of food on a world scale”. A food regime is marked by a period of transition in food production that results in significant social, political, and economic change. The current situation of global food production can be called the \"corporate food regime\" due to the concentration of supplying and processing food in the private sector. For example, US corporations have control over food production by subcontracting smaller farmers, which allows them to participate and profit without taking on the risks of farming, such as weather and disease. Food regimes are the result of “political struggles among contending social groups” for control over how food production is framed and conceptualized, according to McMichael. The corporate food regime came about with the neoliberal economic theory which is motivated by efficiency and trade liberalization, and states that nations should focus their efforts and resources on producing goods and services where they have an advantage relative to other nations (that is, goods that they are best at producing), as cited by Philip McMichael. The corporate food regime has existed for only the last 100 years, as compared to the millennia prior to industrialization and the Green Revolution.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39329879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39329879", "title": "Vienna Document", "text": "Vienna Document\n\nThe Vienna Document is an agreement between the participating states of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe which was intended to implement confidence and security building measures. Its provisions include an annual exchange of military information about forces located in Europe (defined as the Atlantic to the Urals), notifications for risk reduction including consultation about unusual military activities and hazardous incidents, prior notification of certain military activities, observation of certain military activities, exchange of annual calendars, and compliance and verification by inspection and evaluation visits. This exchange differs from the Global Exchange of Military Information in that it is limited to forces in Europe, while the Global Exchange of Military Information applies to all forces of the participating states, wherever located. The annual exchange of information was conducted concurrently with the annual exchange of information under the Conventional Forces in Europe treaty, in Vienna, Austria in December of each year. The Vienna Document has been revised periodically, and the current version is the 2011 version.\n\nFrom 2014 onwards there have been fears that the Vienna Document is on the verge of becoming de facto defunct, as other arms control and security agreements continue to collapse due to the ongoing tensions in Eastern Europe. However Russia was able to use the provisions of the Document in early April 2015 to force NATO to agree to a Russian inspection team being present at the 2015 Joint Warrior exercise off the coast of Scotland.\n"}
{"id": "38779351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38779351", "title": "Water conflict between Ethiopia and Kenya", "text": "Water conflict between Ethiopia and Kenya\n\nThe water conflict between Ethiopia and Kenya is a development dispute due to the receding water resource along the border between Ethiopia and Kenya.\n\nEthiopia decided to build the Gilgel Gibe III Dam on the Omo River to provide hydropower electricity to Ethiopia as well as Egypt, Sudan, Djibouti, Kenya, Uganda and Yemen. Considering rising temperatures, desertification and because the Omo is the main water source for several Ethiopian and Kenyan tribes, the dam could potentially cause violent conflict. Professor Aaron Wolf identified the problem's two major factors as:economic and population growth, and institutional capacity, or “human systems built to mitigate the change\".\n\nIn the border area between Ethiopia and Kenya, The Turkana of Kenya and the Dassanech, Nyangatom and Mursi of Ethiopia are tribes that depend on the Omo River and Lake Turkana to survive. In the past years the area became drier, with a hot climate and prolonged drought. Population growth aggravated the problem. The people live in a pastoral system, moving around wherever resources can be found. In years of scarcity conflicts happen almost every day.\n\nLake Turkana receives 90 percent of its water from Omo River. Rising temperatures and reduced rainfall have contributed to the lake’s retreat into Kenya. To survive, the Ethiopians tribes began following the water. As a result, intertribal conflict is increasing.\n\nAs of 2005, at least four Ethiopians and 20 Kenyans had died, although some Kenyan government officials placed the toll as high as 69, according to the Kenya-based Daily Nation. The localized fighting pressured both nations to address the conflict.\n\nAccording to John Nunyes, a member of Kenya’s parliament, Ethiopians had moved inside Kenya. “They have stopped our Turkana people from fishing, they have thrown us out of the pastures, we can’t access the waters. We allowed our communities to continue fighting and competing over resources”, he said.\n\nIn 2011, an estimated 900 armed militia and 2,500 Ethiopian civilians on Kenyan territory around lake Turkana increased attacks against Kenyans. The Kenyan government claimed that these illegal immigrants had taken control of 10 Kenyan villages and vowed to send them back to Ethiopia.\n\nThe dispute was driven both by territorial claims and access to water resources.\n\nThe Turkana are frequently attacked by the Ethiopian tribes. In May 2011, a dozen Ethiopians allegedly killed Kenya‘s head of the Border Police, John Nunyes, a Kenyan Parliament member who visited the Turkana community. Before dramatic climate changes, the area inhabited by the Turkana peopleenabled the sustainability of livestock herds. This was because of the area's predictable rainfall and availability of land.\nMany people are now migrating toward the Turkana’s territory and most Turkana tribesmen are suffering from the loss of pasture and access to water.\n\nThe Daasanach share a traditional border with the Turkana. However, the border is moving toward south because of receding water. According to the \"Christian Science Monitor\", the Daasanach have begun cultivating the land and fishing using the waters of the River Omo-Lake Turkana Delta in competition with the Kenyan Turkana people for both land and water resources.\n\nThe Nayangatom are cattle herders who use Omo River water for their animals. Those who are displaced internally rely on government and foreign support, which is not always well thought out. For example, the international community sent foods such as maize, which cannot be eaten raw and requires a lot of water to cook.\n"}
{"id": "4421454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4421454", "title": "Youcef Yousfi", "text": "Youcef Yousfi\n\nYoucef Yousfi () (born 2 October 1941) is an Algerian politician who has been Minister of Energy and Mines between 2010 and 2015. He briefly served as Acting Prime Minister of Algeria in March–April 2014. Yousfi was Algeria's Permanent Representative to the United Nations from 2006 to 2008.\n\nBorn in Batna, Yousfi graduated from the \"École nationale supérieure des industries chimiques\" (National School of Chemical Engineering) in France, and obtained a PhD in physics from the \"Université de Nancy\". He also has a degree in economics.\n\nYousfi was a senior lecturer, then a professor of chemical engineering at the National Polytechnic School, and then the Houari Boumediene University of Sciences and Technologies, both in Algiers. He was also director of the chemistry institute there. He was also an oil adviser at the Ministry of Industry and Energy.\n\nIn the late 1970s, Yousfi was appointed as marketing vice-president at Sonatrach, and in 1985, he became its CEO. In 1996, he became chief of staff to Algerian President, Liamine Zéroual. In 1997, he was appointed as Minister of Oil and Energy and was also first elected as a member of the People's National Assembly. \n\nIn early 1999, Yousfi became president of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). On 23 December 1999 he was appointed as Minister of Foreign Affairs. He was replaced by Abdelaziz Belkhadem in the post in August 2000, when Yousfi moved on to become Minister-Delegate to Prime Minister, Ali Benflis.\n\nIn April 2001, Yousfi was nominated as Ambassador of Algeria to Canada, before becoming Permanent Representative to the United Nations in 2006.\n\nYousfi is married and has three children.\n\n"}
