{"id": "10156132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10156132", "title": "1617 in music", "text": "1617 in music\n\nThe year 1617 in music involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "226277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226277", "title": "1674 in literature", "text": "1674 in literature\n\nThis article presents lists of the literary events and publications in 1674.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3445451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3445451", "title": "1679 in music", "text": "1679 in music\n\nThe year 1679 in music involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "225680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225680", "title": "1737 in literature", "text": "1737 in literature\n\nThis article presents lists of the literary events and publications in 1737.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22270075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22270075", "title": "Art in Embassies Program", "text": "Art in Embassies Program\n\nThe Art In Embassies Program (AIEP) is a public-private partnership that promotes cultural diplomacy through exhibitions, permanent collections, site-specific commissions and two-way artist exchanges in more than 200 U.S. Embassies and Consulates around the world. Through art, international audiences gain a sense of the quality, scope, and diversity of American and host country art and culture. Initiated by President John Kennedy in 1963, the program is funded by the U.S. Department of State. Virginia Shore is the Chief Curator.\n\nThe amount of money allotted for art in each building is calculated with a formula based on the gross square footage. AIEP's curatorial team develops thematic exhibitions in collaboration with each ambassador, taking into account the host country's artistic traditions and cultural mores. They recommend artists and works of art, negotiate all loans, and propose placement of the art within the embassy residences. After all loans are secured and the art insured, AIE's registrars coordinate with professional art handlers for the assembly, packing, crating and safe shipment of each exhibition to post. Since 1963, approximately 10,000 pieces of art have been placed in ambassador residences, embassies, and consulates throughout the world, including work by Maya Lin, Jeff Koons, Ellsworth Kelly, Martin Puryear, Louise Bourgeois, Joel Shapiro, Benjamin Abramowitz and other prestigious artists. The total value of art on loan to the embassy program is estimated at $200 million.\n\nInitiated in 2002, the American Artists Abroad program was created to extend Art In Embassies' exhibitions beyond the walls of U.S. diplomatic residences into local communities. Participating American artists travel to countries where their work is exhibited and engage in a series of public cultural programming activities, such as lectures, workshops, and studio visits.\n\nThe art in Beijing cost about $800,000 but has been appraised at $30 million. \n\nThe program was criticized in 2013 when $1M was awarded for a sculpture at the U.S. Embassy in London. The project was subsequently scrapped because the sculpture was too heavy for the planned site.\n\nIn 2014, the purchase of a $400,000 camel sculpture by artist John Baldessari was revealed in U.S. Department of State records obtained by the media. United States Senator Jeff Flake raised concerns with this spending in a U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing on April 21, 2015.\n"}
{"id": "6044331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6044331", "title": "Ben Greet", "text": "Ben Greet\n\nSir Philip Barling Greet (24 September 1857 – 17 May 1936), known professionally as Ben Greet, was a Shakespearean actor, director, and impresario.\n\nThe younger son of Captain William Greet RN and his wife, Sarah Barling, Greet was born on board , a Royal Navy recruiting ship tied up at the Tower of London. He was the youngest of five sisters and two brothers. He was educated at the Royal Naval School, New Cross. His parents planned to make him a naval officer or a clergyman, but instead he became a schoolmaster at a private school at Worthing. His brother, William Greet, was a theatre manager while his other brother Thomas was the only sibling to continue on to have a career in the Royal Navy.\n\nBen Greet would visit the Greenwich and Woolwich theatres frequently to watch the exciting productions of Victorian melodrama, Shakespearean plays, farces and pantomimes. Some of the productions he might have seen as a young child were \"Light in the Dark\", \"Mariner's Compass\" and Shakespeare's \"Othello\" around the year 1867. Greet was exposed to many dramas as a child, and he performed in plays at school. According to Isaac, Greet would \"have tested his histrionic powers, giving his family and friends a taste of his quality, interpreting [characters] of Shakespeare's plays…\". Yet, Greet did not perform on the professional stage until four years after his father's death in 1879.\n\nGreet performed in his first appearance as a professional actor in J.W. Gordon's Stock Company at the Theatre Royal in Southampton. He performed in an Irish melodrama and within the next day, he was assigned to play over twenty Shakespearean parts for an additional season. Then, for the next three years, Greet performed at the Theatre Royal in Margate, England where he was given the opportunity to work with the best artists of that time. After his three years performing in Margate, he went back to London to join Miss Wallis's Company at The Gaiety Theatre where they performed \"Cymbeline\". Ben Greet played, as ‘Caius Lucius' in the show, and it was this role that claimed to be Greet's first real debut in 1883. Later that year, Greet became a member of Minnie Palmer's Company at the Grand Theatre in Islington where he played ‘Dudley Harcourt' in \"My Sweetheart\". Although, his first major breakthrough role was the ‘Apothecary' in Mary Anderson's production of \"Romeo and Juliet\" at the Lyceum Theatre, which opened in 1884. The play ran for over one hundred nights, and the production was remembered as one of the most stunning performances of that time. From 1884 to until 1897, Greet played so many roles and moved to so many companies and theatres that it is hard to record them all. In just five years, Greet would have played over 300 roles in plays.\n\nIn 1883 Greet launched his career by first creating The Ben Greet Players, his own company. They would perform open-air productions of the classic English stage repertory. They first produced tours throughout England, performing in college gardens, the parks of great houses, and village greens. Popularity rose for The Ben Greet Players, and after twenty years of touring with outdoor productions of Shakespeare in England, Ben Greet was traveling with his troupe to tour in America. \nIn May of 1914, the \"Ben Greet Players\" presented two Shakespearean plays on the campus of the College of Industrial Arts, a women's college in Denton Texas. According to a letter dated May 5, 1914 by a student at the college, \"...one of them will be given in the afternoon and the other at night. The \"Ben Greet Players\" is a traveling company that goes to the various colleges and universities of the country to play.\" \n\nGreet's alfresco productions were the first tours organized to bring professional actors to college campuses in America. The American tour was even rewarding enough for The Ben Greet Players to perform for President Roosevelt on the White House front lawn.\n\nGreet returned to England in 1903 for a short time and managed more tours before beginning another American tour in 1904. They performed plays such as \"Everyman\", \"Twelfth Night\", \"The Merchant of Venice\" and \"The Star of Bethlehem\" in locations including Boston and New York. By 1914, the year that Greet returned to England, before the First World War, Greet commenced in the management of the Old Vic Theatre.\n\nIn his four seasons at the Old Vic, Greet produced and directed 35 plays, including 23 by Shakespeare, plus Goldsmith's \"She Stoops to Conquer,\" Sheridan's \"The Rivals\" and \"The School for Scandal,\" the Medieval mystery play \"The Star of Bethlehem,\" and \"Everyman\" among other works. When Greet was still a director at the Old Vic, he also focused on changing the perspectives of children on their views of Shakespeare. During Greet's years working at the Old Vic, there were over 400 schools that worked in connection with the theatre. The Education Committee of Britain, in 1929, declared that theatre facilities should be renewed to allow children to experience Shakespeare performances \"as a reinforcement of the school curriculum and a stimulus to literary appreciation\". Over 20,000 elementary school students, along with their teachers, were given the chance to see one Shakespeare show during their school term. Due to this arrangement, Greet was able to share the spectacle that is Shakespeare with over a million children. The program continued for many years as many Education Committees in London sponsored it. Greet was knighted in 1929 by King George V for his works involving the Old Vic theatre and his overall devotion to Shakespeare.\n\nHe is commemorated by a blue plaque on the façade of 160 Lambeth Road, London, where he lived from 1920 until his death in 1936.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7476706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7476706", "title": "Books of Remembrance (Canada)", "text": "Books of Remembrance (Canada)\n\nThe seven Books of Remembrance housed in the Memorial Chamber in the Peace Tower of the Canadian Parliament Buildings in Ottawa are illuminated manuscript volumes recording the names of members of the Canadian Forces and Canadian Merchant Navy killed on active service in wartime, and in other conflicts. There are seven separate Books, beginning with the first listing the names of the dead from the First World War.\n\nThe display case for the first Book was designed by John A. Pearson, architect of the Peace Tower, and made by Bromsgrove Guild Limited (Great Britain) and Robert Mitchell Company in 1928. Made of bronze, enamel and other metals, it is decorated with four kneeling angels and a ribbon encircling a laurel. It rests on an altar of English Hoptonwood limestone that was a British gift to Canada, situated at the centre of the chamber. Later books are displayed on altars of Hoptonwood stone and bronze, decorated with poppies, located against the walls of the chamber.\n\nThe pages of each of the Books are turned every day of the year at 11 a.m. by a constable of the Parliamentary Protective Service, so that every name is on display to visitors at least once during each calendar year.\n\nDuring the First World War on July 1, 1917, Prime Minister Robert Borden announced a Memorial Chamber would be included in the soon-to-be constructed Peace Tower, part of the rebuild of the Centre Block of the Canadian parliament buildings after a 1916 fire. He said that it would be a \"memorial to the debt of our forefathers and to the valour of those Canadians who, in the Great War, fought for the liberties of Canada, of the Empire, and of humanity\".\n\nAlthough it was originally hoped to inscribe the names of the dead Canadians upon the walls of the chamber, it was decided that it was more practical to follow Colonel A. Fortesque Duguid's idea to house Books of Remembrance inside the chamber instead.\nOn August 3, 1927, while in Ottawa, Prince Albert Edward (later King Edward VIII) unveiled an altar, a gift from the British government, upon which the book of the First World War would rest. The stone for the steps came from quarries in Flanders Fields and the brass nameplates were cast from spent shell casings from the war.\n\nAll the books have some illumination; those for the two world wars having the most, with each page having a wide border at the top decorated with plant motifs, usually leaves, and a unit badge. Other books only have illumination on the title page.\n\nThe Book of the First World War is the largest of the books, containing 66,655 names. It took London, Ontario native James Purves eleven years to gather the necessary materials to begin work on the book, and upon his death in 1940, work passed to his assistant Alan Beddoe, who completed the book by 1942. (Beddoe would spend the next thirty years of his life as the chief artist of the books, dying in 1975.) Contributors to the first book included Evelyn Lambart, who would go on to become an animator at the National Film Board of Canada.\n\nIn 1948, it was announced that a second book would be created to memorialize the 44,893 Canadians who had died in the Second World War. This time Beddoe was given a chief assistant, five assistant artists, two writers, an accounting officer and a proof-reader to help with the book, scheduled to be completed in 1952. A series of delays, however, slowed the progress of the book - notably after the government decided that work should be restarted in 1951, to re-write all the names, this time including the abbreviations of individual regiments. The book was completed in 1957, and that Remembrance Day was placed in the Memorial Chamber alongside the first book.\n\nIn 1959, humidity destroyed the bindings of the two World War books, requiring them to be re-bound.\n\nA second volume for the 7th Book of Remembrance in currently in production.\n\nThe current calligrapher for the 7th Book of Remembrance, Vol. I & II is Ottawa, Ontario resident, Richard Draffin.\n\nThe Newfoundland book, commemorating over 2300 Newfoundlanders who gave their lives in the First and Second World War (before Newfoundland became a province of Canada), was placed in the Memorial Chamber in 1973.\n\n516 Canadians lost their lives in the Korean War (1950-1953).\n\nCanada's first overseas war, the Nile Expedition for the Relief of General Gordon (1884-1885) claimed 16 lives from a Canadian force of 400. Of the 7,000 Canadian troops deployed in the South African War, about 250 died and are listed in the book.\n\nFrom the Canadian Merchant Navy, more than 570 Canadian men and women died during the First World War and more than 1600 during the Second World War. This book was dedicated in 1993.\n\nA seventh Book of Remembrance, dedicated on November 11, 2005, lists members of the Canadian Forces who have died on active duty in the service of Canada (other than those already covered by the Korean War book) since the close of the Second World War book. Unlike the others, which were designed after the end of each period of hostilities, the seventh book is ongoing and is expected to continue \"for generations to come\".\n\n"}
{"id": "46992313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46992313", "title": "Bottled Ocean", "text": "Bottled Ocean\n\nBottled Ocean was an exhibition of work by New Zealand artists of Pacific Island descent that was shown at a number of metropolitan art galleries in New Zealand in 1994-1995. It featured the work artists who have become notable figures in New Zealand and internationally.\n\nJim Vivieaere, a New Zealand artist of Rarotongan descent, was commissioned by touring exhibition company Exhibitour to curate an exhibition of contemporary Pacific Island artists. City Gallery Wellington was a partner in the exhibition.\n\nThe exhibition was not a straightforward survey or 'celebration' of Pacific artists. Organising the exhibition turned Vivieaere into a spokesperson or authority on Pacific Island art, a position he was uneasy with. He was concerned that the exhibition could lead to artists being pigeon-holed or 'ghettoised' or that stereotypes of the 'exotic' Pacific could be reinforced. In one interview Vivieaere said that the ‘only reason we are here is that we are Polynesian – not on our merits but because we’re the \"other\"…. We don’t need Polynesian shows. I would like to see it as the last.’\n\nVivieaere selected a broad range of artists who worked in a variety of media and were at different stages of their careers. Most of them were born in New Zealand but had ties to Samoa, Niue, the Cook Islands and Tonga.\n\nTwenty-three artists formed the core exhibition:\n\n\nAs the exhibition progressed other artists were added including Evotia Tamu, Sheyne Tuffery, Luana Asiata, Sasha Kronfeld, Glenda Vilisoni, Sale Jessop and the musical group Grace (made up of brothers Anthony, Jason and Paul Ioasa).\n\n\"Bottled Ocean\" launched at City Gallery Wellington in 1994 and toured to Auckland Art Gallery, Waikato Art Gallery (now Waikato Museum), the Manawatu Art Gallery (now Te Manawa) and the McDougall Art Annex (now Christchurch Art Gallery) throughout 1994 and 1995.\n\nVivieaere changed the display of the exhibition for each location. At City Gallery Wellington the works were displayed on a mirrored floor behind a perspex wall, mimicking museum cabinets or shop window displays. and creating a forced distance between the art and the viewer. At the Auckland Art Gallery a mirrored floor was used and some of the works remained in their travelling crates or were partly unpacked. At the Robert McDougall Art Annex Michel Tuffery's sculpture \"Pisupo Lua Afe\", a life-size bull made out of flattened corned-beef cans, was positioned as if it was gazing at a wall of art works like a visitor.\n\n\"Bottled Ocean\" has been noted for being one of the first exhibitions to focus on contemporary Pacific artists and for its underlying concerns. The exhibition was discussed at length in the publication accompanying \"Paradise Now: Contemporary Art from the Pacific\", the first major exhibition of contemporary Pacific art to show in a United States museum. It is also discussed in the recent book \"Art in Oceania: A New History\":\n\n\"Bottled Ocean\" made the 'arrival' of contemporary Pacific art in the elite galleries of the New Zealand art world a problem to be reflected upon, rather than simply a triumph to celebrate. Having been invited to survey the work of Pacific migrants, Vivieaere turned the exhibition into something of an installation, a work of art in its own right, in which he used various exhibitionary devices to make the desire for 'cultural difference' and 'otherness', which had become broadly topical in the artworld, the implicit subject of the exhibition.\n\nReviewing the exhibition for \"Art AsiaPacific\" Wendy Vaigro wrote\n\nAs the ostensible organising principle of \"Bottled Ocean\", 'Pacific Islandness' is utilised as a term that references, ironically, attempts to homogenise Polynesian artists working in New Zealand. ... In challenging the closure of aesthetic and political categories and conventional curatorial practices, Jim Vivieaere creates \"Bottled Ocean\" as a meta-exhibition. The result is a subtle and thoughtful show that eludes ideological control and authoritative discourse at every turn.\n\nIn a review for \"Art New Zealand\", Nicholas Thomas investigated Vivieaere's reference to a 'modern tribal art market' in the brochure accompanying the exhibition. He observed that 'the work in \"Bottled Ocean\" is produced for and around a market - not just an art market, but a contemporary global cultural market, a multicultural theatre in which identities, signatures, nationalities and lifestyles are affirmed, celebrated, changed and consumed.'. He continued:\n\nThe mainstream audience may be primarily interested in the tropical colourfulness of the work, in the apparent conformity of its spirituality with New Age environmentalism, in its exoticism. Artists appear to have responded to this interest by making exoticism visually explicit through the use of readily recognizable Polynesian motifs. ... The distinctive accomplishment of \"Bottled Ocean\" lies in its direct but subtle challenge to this consumerist interest interest in Pacific art and culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "6183549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6183549", "title": "Bridget D'Oyly Carte", "text": "Bridget D'Oyly Carte\n\nDame Bridget Cicely D'Oyly Carte, DBE (25 March 1908 – 2 May 1985), was the granddaughter of impresario Richard D'Oyly Carte and the only daughter of Rupert D'Oyly Carte. She was head of the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company from 1948 until 1982.\n\nThough as a child she was not enthusiastic about Gilbert and Sullivan, after her father's death in 1948, Bridget D'Oyly Carte inherited the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company, which performed and controlled the copyrights to the joint works of W. S. Gilbert and Arthur Sullivan, as well as all of her family's business interests. She had begun to assist her father in managing the Savoy Hotel in 1933, also undertaking child welfare work. \n\nShe hired Frederic Lloyd as general manager of the opera company in 1951 and moved to keep the Savoy operas fresh, marketing them as a bridge between popular and classical music. After the copyrights to the Gilbert and Sullivan works expired in 1961, she transferred the opera company to a charitable trust that she headed. Mounting losses, and the refusal of the Arts Council to provide a grant, forced the closure of the company in 1982, although the company re-formed after Carte's death and mounted several productions up to 2003.\n\nIn 1972, Carte founded the D'Oyly Carte Charitable Trust to support charitable causes in the fields of the arts, medical welfare and the environment. She was created a DBE in 1975. With no children of her own or surviving siblings, she was the end of her family line.\n\nBridget Cicely D'Oyly Carte was born at Suffolk Street, Pall Mall, London, and educated in England and abroad. Her father was Rupert D'Oyly Carte, and her mother was the former Lady Dorothy Milner Gathorne-Hardy (1889–1977), the youngest daughter of the 2nd Earl of Cranbrook. Her grandfather was Richard D'Oyly Carte, who founded the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company.\nIn 1926, when she was only 18, she married her first cousin, John David Gathorne-Hardy, the fourth Earl of Cranbrook (1900–1978), an explorer and naturalist. As a result of her marriage, Carte was styled as Countess of Cranbrook, and her married name was Gathorne-Hardy. They soon separated and finally divorced in 1931; she relinquished her title and resumed her maiden name by deed poll in 1932, also dropping the name Cicely, which she disliked. She then resumed her education at Dartington Hall in Devon from 1931 to 1933, a school with a long musical tradition, taking courses in dance, teacher training, art and design. There she met designer Peter Goffin who became a long-time friend.\n\nThe accidental death of her only brother, Michael (1911–1932), made Carte the heir to her father's hotel and theatre interests. As a child, however, she had been reluctant to assume the family legacy. She later told \"The Gramophone\" magazine: \"At home, you know, we weren't allowed to \"hum\" Gilbert and Sullivan; in fact we were fined for it, because it annoyed my father. We were allowed to sing it properly, but my brother and I couldn't – in my family the fact that I wasn't Mozart at about three years old was thought of as rather disappointing. So I went through a phase when I was very anti-Gilbert and Sullivan; I became rather a highbrow, and my father thought I was a bit of a snake-in-the-grass because of it.\"\n\nFrom 1933 to 1939, Carte was an assistant to her father at the Savoy Hotel, taking responsibility for furnishing and interior decoration, for which she had training and aptitude. Upon the outbreak of the Second World War, however, she undertook child welfare work and continued with it until her father's death in 1948. The family home was Coleton Fishacre, a house that her parents had built in Devon between Paignton and Kingswear in 1925. The house is still known for its design features and garden with exotic tropical plants. \n\nAfter her parents' divorce in 1941, Bridget D'Oyly Carte took over the house, which her father, who lived in London, would visit for long weekends. Shortly after her father's death, she sold Coleton Fishacre, and it is now owned by the National Trust. In 1949 she bought Shrubs Wood, Chalfont St Giles, Buckinghamshire, designed by the architects Erich Mendelsohn and Serge Chermayeff. Here she pursued her love of gardening and gave summer parties for disadvantaged or disabled children. In 1953, Carte was a member of the committee overseeing the decorations for the Coronation Ball at the Savoy Hotel in honour of the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II.\n\nWhen her father died in 1948, she inherited all his interests including the Savoy Hotel group and the family's opera company, which presented the Savoy Operas from 1875 to 1982. She did not succeed Rupert D'Oyly Carte as chairman of the Savoy Hotel group, in which she retained a large shareholding, but she became an active director. She moved into a suite in the Savoy Hotel and resumed control of the furnishing and decoration departments. When the Savoy Group acquired them, she took interest in the soft-furnishing company, James Edwards, and was chairman of the royal florists, Edward Goodyear Ltd. She became vice-chairman of the Group in 1971 and was its president at the time of her death.\n\nAt first, Bridget D'Oyly Carte \"did not feel qualified to sustain the responsibility\" of running the opera company. Nevertheless, she was determined to prove herself. One of her early decisions proved especially unpopular and led to a wave of important defections from the company at the end of the Festival of Britain season in 1951, most importantly, Martyn Green. This was the 1949 hiring, as stage director, of Eleanor Evans, Mrs. Darrell Fancourt, known as \"Snookie\" in the company. Green wrote in 1952: \n\"I ... told Miss Carte that I thought she was making a great psychological error. During Anna Bethell's regime (Mrs. Sydney Granville), there had been growing signs of discontent and suggestions of favouritism... But to appoint not only a woman who had for fifteen years worked in the chorus alongside several who were now principals, but the wife of one of the main principals, seemed to me to be a psychological error of the first magnitude. I felt that ... she would, rightly or wrongly, be accused of that very same favouritism. My views made no impression on Miss Carte, but time was to prove that I was right... Production is done to a plan that takes no consideration of the individual, his personality or his histrionic ability – a stereotyped plan that results in a clockwork performance devoid of spontaneity.\n\nThe historian Tony Joseph wrote: \"But Green was not the only member of the Company to leave... Ella Halman left too. So did Richard Watson ... Margaret Mitchell ... Radley Flynn and no fewer than twenty-two other small part players and choristers. It was the largest single exodus of performers in D'Oyly Carte history, and that was why the sense of sadness that hovered over the season was so marked... August 1951 was the end of an era. Cynthia Morey, who joined the Company just before the defections, wrote: \"I have never found out precisely why this great exodus took place... We were always under the impression that we should feel honoured to be in the employ of the D’Oyly Carte Opera Company; it was patently obvious that the management held firmly to the policy that nobody is indispensable\". Morey noted that Evans had played several roles with the company and commented, \"In 1927 she was apparently demoted to the chorus, and there she remained for [fifteen years]. ... I should not have thought these qualifications sufficient for such an important post; to spend all those years as a chorister seems to signify a lack of ambition or achievement. But I suppose a 'Director of Productions' in those days merely needed to know every move and every gesture, and exactly when they occurred, for no departure from the set production was ever permitted.\" Richard Walker, Kenneth Sandford and others also criticised Evans's temperament and methods. She retired as stage director in 1953, the year that her husband died, but she was engaged to coach new D'Oyly Carte principals in their roles for some years thereafter. \n\nCarte made an important move to hire Frederic Lloyd as general manager in 1951, which position he continued to discharge until the company closed. In running the D'Oyly Carte Opera company she took steps to keep the productions fresh, engaging designers to redesign the costumes and scenery. Her old friend, Peter Goffin, who had previously redesigned \"The Yeomen of the Guard\" and \"Ruddigore\" for Rupert D'Oyly Carte, designed a unit set in 1957 to facilitate and reduce the cost of touring. He also produced new settings and costumes for \"Patience\" (1957), \"The Mikado\" (1958 – settings only, most of the celebrated Charles Ricketts costumes being retained), \"The Gondoliers\" (1958), \"Trial by Jury\" (1959), \"H.M.S. Pinafore\" (1961), and \"Iolanthe\" (1961). \"Princess Ida\" was redesigned by James Wade in 1954.\n\nCarte claimed that the most important function of the operas, which in later years she advertised rather as musicals, was \"to bridge the generation gap and link serious music to pop.\" She televised and had recordings and films made of some of the operas, engaged Sir Malcolm Sargent to conduct performances at the Festival of Britain season in 1951 at the operas' original London home, the Savoy Theatre, and supported an increasing number of tours of the United States. In 1960 the company's own touring orchestra was formed as a change from the ad hoc recruitment of players at each venue. In 1975 the company produced a centenary season at the Savoy Theatre, in 1977 it gave a royal Royal Command Performance at Windsor Castle, and in 1979, for the first time, it toured Australia and New Zealand.\n\nWith the approaching end of the D'Oyly Carte monopoly on Gilbert and Sullivan performances, when the copyright on Gilbert's words expired in 1961, Carte set up the charitable D'Oyly Carte Opera Trust to continue to present the operas. She endowed the trust with the company's scenery, costumes, band parts, recording rights and other assets, together with a cash endowment of £30,000. She formed Bridget D'Oyly Carte Ltd to manage the opera company, with herself as chairman and managing director. Finally, mounting losses, and the refusal of the Arts Council to provide a grant, forced the closure of the company in 1982. Even after it closed, however, the company's productions and style continued to influence the productions of other companies.\nIn 1972, she founded the D'Oyly Carte Charitable Trust – entirely separate from the D'Oyly Carte Opera Trust and the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company – supporting charitable causes in the fields of the arts, medical welfare and the environment. In 2001, the trust endowed the D'Oyly Carte Chair in Medicine and the Arts at King's College London with £2 million. In 1974 she was elected an Honorary Member of the Royal Society of Musicians of Great Britain, and in 1975 was created a DBE. \n\nIn the 1970s, Carte became the tenant of the semi-ruined Barscobe Castle, Balmaclellan, a small seventeenth-century fortified house in south-west Scotland, which she restored. Always shy, old-fashioned and formal, Carte appreciated simplicity and avoided parties and social events as much as possible. For her \"Who's Who\" entry she listed her recreations as, \"country living and gardening; reading, theatre and music.\"\n\nA heavy smoker, Carte died of lung cancer in her country home in Shrubs Wood, Buckinghamshire in 1985, aged 77. Her remains were cremated. She left a fortune of £5,479,888. With no children of her own or surviving siblings, she was the end of her family line. The Savoy hotel group continued under the control of her trustees until 1994. The group's hotels remained among the most prestigious in London, with the \"London Evening Standard\" calling the Savoy \"London's most famous hotel\" in 2009. \n\nA legacy of £1 million from her private fortune enabled a new opera company, using the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company name, to begin operations in 1988. The company secured sponsorship from Sir Michael Bishop, who eventually became chairman of the Board of Trustees, and BMI British Midland Airways (of which Bishop is chairman).\n\nFrom 1988 to 2003 the new company produced short seasons each year, mounting productions of the Gilbert and Sullivan operas on tour and in London, as well as operettas by Jacques Offenbach, Franz Lehár and Johann Strauss II. The new company did not employ many of the members of the original company and did not follow its performing traditions, even staging some \"concept\" productions of the operas. Once again, costs outran receipts, public subsidy was denied by the English Arts Council, and the company suspended productions in May 2003. It continues to rent scores.\n\nThe Gilbert and Sullivan operas, nurtured by the Carte family for over a century, continue to be produced frequently today throughout the English-speaking world and beyond. By keeping the Savoy operas popular for so long, the Carte family influenced the course of the development of modern musical theatre throughout the 20th century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42668206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42668206", "title": "Cameron Chisholm Nicol", "text": "Cameron Chisholm Nicol\n\nCameron Chisholm Nicol (CCN) is an Australian multi-disciplinary architecture practice. Established in Perth in 1884 by James William Wright, the firm has operated continuously in Western Australia since that time. The Brisbane office was opened in 1986. The two offices are no longer linked, and operate as separate entities. \n\nIn 1884, James William Wright opened a private architectural practice in Perth, Western Australia, which was the only one in the colony at the time. He had arrived in the colony three years earlier, from South Australia, and had completed government contracts for engineering projects in both colonies. The first commission for the new firm, known as J. W. Wright & Co., was Woodbridge House, which Charles Harper had built on the Swan River near Guildford. It designed a wide range of buildings over the following decades, including office buildings, hotels, banks, grandstands, and the York Town Hall. In 1906, Wright accepted two of his former apprentices as partners, and the firm became known as Wright, Powell & Cameron. Wright's name was dropped after his death in 1917, and the company was known as just Powell & Cameron until 1930, when Oswald Chisholm became a partner and the firm's name was changed to Powell, Cameron & Chisholm.\n\nIn the 1950s, Oswald Chisholm’s son Ross began work in the practice, working with Gil Nicol. Ross Chisholm became a partner in the practice in 1958.\n\nIn 1986, managing director Henry Peel established an office in Brisbane operating under the name CCN Group (QLD) Pty Ltd. Designs for which it has been commissioned include The Australian Chancery and Ambassadors residence in Brasilia. The company's architects acted as key consultants to the Urban Development Authority in Malaysia. CCN Group has designed projects internationally in China, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Iran, Jakarta, Japan, Malaysia and Yemen.\n\nIn 2018, the directors of the Perth office are Dominic Snellgrove (Managing Director), Gavin Broom (Practice Manager), Keat Tan (Design Director) and Peter Keleman.\n\nThe firm's first commission building was Woodbridge House in Guildford in 1885. Since that time the firm has designed many structures. Some of the better known projects are:\n\nThe Reid Library, at the University of Western Australia, was awarded a RIBA Gold Medal in 1964. Gil Nicol was the leading architect on the project, as he was for many Perth buildings, including the Alexander Library, Wesfarmers Building and the Metropolitan Water Centre.\n\nIn 1970 the firm designed the award-winning National Carillon tower in Canberra, which was a gift to Australia from Britain and was constructed on Aspen Island in Lake Burley Griffin.\n\nAllendale Square in Perth was designed by Cameron Chisholm Nicol in 1970 and was completed in 1976. The building has been celebrated with awards including the RAIA (WA Chapter) Architecture Design Award and Bronze Medal Award as well as the ACI Energy Conservation Award and Alcoa of Australia Award for Architecture. In 2018 Allendale Square received the WA Architecture Awards Richard Roach Jewel Award for Enduring Architecture. I\n\nIn 2012, Cameron Chisholm Nicol in joint venture with ARM Architecture completed the Perth Arena. The Arena received Australia's most prestigious architecture award, the Sir Zelman Cowen Award for Public Architecture, at the AIA National Architecture Awards in 2013, along with the Emil Sodersten Award for Interior Architecture. In the 2013 WA Architecture Awards, the building was awarded The George Temple Poole Award for best building overall, and The Jeffrey Howlett Award for Public Architecture. It won the Best in State Award from the Western Australia Design Institute of Australia in 2013. The building also won Best Public Building at the 2015 Property Council of Australia / Rider Levett Bucknall Innovation and Excellence Awards.\n\n\n\nList of Australian architects\n\n"}
{"id": "43376403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43376403", "title": "Canadian Guild of Potters", "text": "Canadian Guild of Potters\n\nThe Canadian Guild of Potters was a non-profit organization of Canadian ceramic artists that was active from 1936 to 1978.\n\nThe founding members of the Canadian Guild of Potters were Nunzia D'Angelo, Robert Montgomery and Bobs Cogill Haworth. \nHowarth was the first honorary president, Montgomery was chairman and Molly Satterly was secretary. \nAlthough representing itself as a national organization, most of the early members were based in Toronto.\nThe Guild held its first meeting on 20 March 1936. Mary Dignam's representative invited them to become an affiliate of the Women's Art Association of Canada (WAAC) and to hold their meetings in the WAAC building at 23 Prince Arthur Avenue in Toronto.\nShortly after being founded, in 1936 the Canadian Guild of Potters decided to join the Canadian Handicrafts Guild, based in Montreal.\n\nIn the early years most of the members were amateurs and quality was a concern. In 1943 Pearl McCarthy wrote in \"The Globe and Mail\", \"If this art craft is to advance in quality and number of workers it will need the kind of new member who is willing to take both chemistry and art seriously.\"\nOutside Quebec, this amateur image was an ongoing problem, although professionalism grew steadily over the years. Nunzia D'Angelo made great efforts to ensure that members could exhibit on the Ceramic National exhibitions organized by the New York State College of Ceramics.\n\nThe Canadian sculptor Elizabeth Wyn Wood gave a speech on \"Handicrafts in Relation to Community Art Centres in Canada\". at the National Arts Club in New York City on 21 March 1945 that was reproduced in part in the summer issue of \"Canadian Art\".\nShe noted the important role of the Canadian Guild of Potters, and of ceramic educators such as Peter Haworth and Bobs Cogill Haworth at the Central Technical School in Toronto.\n\nAn exhibition was held in the Art Gallery of Toronto in March–April 1950 for the 50th anniversary of the gallery. All the visual art schools, styles and media were represented. The Canadian Guild of Potters was among the eight art societies that contributed to the show.\nThe guild held exhibitions of \"Canadian Ceramics / Céramiques canadiennes\" in Montreal and Toronto every two years from 1955 to 1971.\nCeramics selected from the second national Canadian Guild of Potters exhibition in 1957 were selected by jury for the \"Canadian Fine Crafts\" show that year, the first national juried crafts show in Canada.\nThe Guild sent three representatives to the First World Congress of Craftsmen, held on 8–19 June 1964 at Columbia University.\n\nThe Guild eventually lost momentum, and was replaced around 1975 by an organization named Ceramic Masters Canada, later renamed Ceramists Canada.\n\nNoted members of the Guild included Florence Wyle (1881-1968), Bobs Cogill Haworth (1900-1988) and Eileen Hazell (1903-1984).\n\nCitations\n\nSources\n"}
{"id": "203792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203792", "title": "Chögyam Trungpa", "text": "Chögyam Trungpa\n\nChögyam Trungpa (Wylie: \"Chos rgyam Drung pa\"; March 5, 1939 – April 4, 1987) was a Buddhist meditation master and holder of both the Kagyu and Nyingma lineages, the eleventh Trungpa tülku, a tertön, supreme abbot of the Surmang monasteries, scholar, teacher, poet, artist, and originator of a radical re-presentation of Shambhala vision.\n\nRecognized both by Tibetan Buddhists and by other spiritual practitioners and scholars as a preeminent teacher of Tibetan Buddhism, he was a major figure in the dissemination of Buddhism to the West, founding Vajradhatu and Naropa University and establishing the Shambhala Training method.\n\nAmong his contributions are the translation of numerous Tibetan texts, the introduction of the Vajrayana teachings to the West, and a presentation of the Buddhadharma largely devoid of ethnic trappings. Trungpa coined the term crazy wisdom. Some of his teaching methods and actions were the topic of controversy during his lifetime and afterwards.\n\nBorn in the Nangchen region of Tibet in March 1939, Chögyam Trungpa was eleventh in the line of Trungpa tülkus, important figures in the Kagyu lineage, one of the four main schools of Tibetan Buddhism. Among his three main teachers were Jamgon Kongtrul of Sechen, HH Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche, and Khenpo Gangshar.\n\nThe name \"Chögyam\" is a contraction of \"Chökyi Gyamtso\" (), which means \"ocean of dharma\". \"Trungpa\" () means \"attendant\". He was deeply trained in the Kagyu tradition and received his khenpo degree at the same time as Thrangu Rinpoche; they continued to be very close in later years. Chögyam Trungpa was also trained in the Nyingma tradition, the oldest of the four schools, and was an adherent of the \"ri-mé\" (\"nonsectarian\") ecumenical movement within Tibetan Buddhism, which aspired to bring together and make available all the valuable teachings of the different schools, free of sectarian rivalry.\n\nAt the time of his escape from Tibet, Trungpa was head of the Surmang group of monasteries.\n\nOn April 23, 1959, twenty-year-old Trungpa set out on an epic nine-month escape from his homeland. Masked in his account in \"Born in Tibet\" to protect those left behind, the first, preparatory stage of his escape had begun a year earlier, when he fled his home monastery after its occupation by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA). After spending the winter in hiding, he decided definitively to escape after learning that his monastery had been destroyed. Trungpa started with Akong Rinpoche and a small party of monastics, but as they traveled people asked to join until the party eventually numbered 300 refugees, from the elderly to mothers with babies – additions which greatly slowed and complicated the journey. Forced to abandon their animals, over half the journey was on foot as the refugees journeyed through an untracked mountain wilderness to avoid the PLA. Sometimes lost, sometimes traveling at night, after three months’ trek they reached the Brahmaputra River. Trungpa, the monastics and about 70 refugees managed to cross the river under heavy gunfire, then, eating their leather belts and bags to survive, they climbed 19,000 feet over the Himalayas before reaching the safety of Pema Ko. After reaching India, on January 24, 1960 the party was flown to a refugee camp.\n\nBetween 2006 and 2010, independent Canadian and French researchers using satellite imagery tracked and confirmed Trungpa’s escape route. In 2012, five survivors of the escape in Nepal, Scotland and the U.S. confirmed details of the journey and supplied their personal accounts. More recent analysis has shown the journey to be directly comparable to such sagas as Shackleton’s 1914/17 Antarctic Expedition. In 2016 accumulated research and survivors’ stories were published in a full retelling of the story, and later in the year preliminary talks began on the funding and production of a movie.\n\nIn exile in India, Trungpa began his study of English. In collaboration with Freda Bedi, who had initiated the project, Trungpa and Akong Tulku founded the Young Lamas Home School and, after seeking endorsement from the Dalai Lama, were appointed its spiritual head and administrator respectively.\n\nIn 1963, with the assistance of sympathetic Westerners, Trungpa received a Spalding sponsorship to study comparative religion at St Antony's College, Oxford University. In 1967, upon the departure of the western Theravadan monk Anandabodhi, Trungpa and Akong Rinpoche were invited by the Johnstone House Trust in Scotland to take over a meditation center, which then became Samye Ling, the first Tibetan Buddhist monastery in the West (future actor and musician David Bowie was one of Trungpa's meditation pupils there). In 1970, after a break with Akong, Trungpa moved to the United States at the invitation of several students.\n\nShortly after his move to Scotland, a variety of experiences, including a car accident that left him partially paralyzed on the left side of his body, led Trungpa to give up his monastic vows and work as a lay teacher. He made that decision principally to mitigate students' becoming distracted by exotic cultures and dress and to undercut their preconceptions of how a guru should behave. He drank, smoked, slept with students, and often kept students waiting for hours before giving teachings. Much of his behavior has been construed as deliberately provocative and sparked controversy. In one account, he encouraged students to give up smoking marijuana, claiming that the smoking was not of benefit to their spiritual progress and that it exaggerated neurosis. Students were often angered, unnerved and intimidated by him, but many remained fiercely loyal, committed, and devoted.\n\nUpon moving to the United States in 1970, Trungpa traveled around North America, gaining renown for his ability to present the essence of the highest Buddhist teachings in a form readily understandable to Western students. During this period, he conducted 13 Vajradhatu Seminaries, three-month residential programs at which he presented a vast body of Buddhist teachings in an atmosphere of intensive meditation practice. The seminaries also had the important function of training his students to become teachers themselves.\n\nTrungpa was one of the first teachers to introduce the esoteric practice of the Vajrayana to the West. According to Khenpo Tsultrim Gyamtso, \"The one who mainly spread the Vajrayana in the West was Trungpa Rinpoche.\" In contrast to its traditional presentation in Tibet, where the esoteric practices are largely the domain of the monastic sangha, in the US Trungpa introduced the Vajrayana to the lay sangha.\n\nThe presentation of these teachings gave rise to some criticism. According to Trungpa's former student Stephen Butterfield, \"Trungpa told us that if we ever tried to leave the Vajrayana, we would suffer unbearable, subtle, continuous anguish, and disasters would pursue us like furies\". Other Vajrayana teachers also warn their students about the dangers of the esoteric path.\n\nButterfield noted \"disquieting resemblances\" to cults, and \"to be part of Trungpa's inner circle, you had to take a vow never to reveal or even discuss some of the things he did.\" But Butterfield also notes that \"This personal secrecy is common with gurus, especially in Vajrayana Buddhism,\" and acknowledges that Trungpa's organization is anything but a cult: \"a mere cult leaves you disgusted and disillusioned, wondering how you could have been a fool. I did not feel that charlatans had hoodwinked me into giving up my powers to enhance theirs. On the contrary, mine were unveiled.\"\n\nIn 1973, Trungpa established Vajradhatu, encompassing all his North American institutions, headquartered in Boulder, Colorado. Trungpa also founded more than 100 meditation centers throughout the world. Originally known as Dharmadhatus, these centers, now more than 150 in number, are known as Shambhala Meditation Centers. He also founded retreat centers for intensive meditation practice, including Shambhala Mountain Center in Red Feather Lakes, Colorado, Karmê Chöling in Barnet, Vermont and Gampo Abbey in Cape Breton, Nova Scotia.\n\nIn 1974, Trungpa founded the Naropa Institute, which later became Naropa University, in Boulder, Colorado. Naropa was the first accredited Buddhist university in North America. Trungpa hired Allen Ginsberg to teach poetry and William Burroughs to teach literature.\n\nTrungpa had a number of notable students, among whom were Pema Chödrön, Allen Ginsberg, Peter Orlovsky, Anne Waldman, Diane di Prima, Peter Lieberson, John Steinbeck IV, José Argüelles, David Nichtern, Ken Wilber, David Deida, Francisco Varela, and Joni Mitchell, who portrayed Trungpa in the song \"Refuge of the Roads\" on her 1976 album Hejira. Ginsberg, Waldman, and di Prima also taught at Naropa University, and in the 1980s Marianne Faithfull taught songwriting workshops.\nLesser-known students Trungpa taught in England and the US include Alf Vial, Rigdzin Shikpo (né Michael Hookham), Jigme Rinzen (né P. Howard Useche), Ezequiel Hernandez Urdaneta (known as Keun-Tshen Goba after setting up his first meditation center in Venezuela), Miguel Otaola (aka Dorje Khandro), Francisco Salas Roche, and Francesca Fremantle. Rigdzin Shikpo promulgated Trungpa's teachings from a primarily Nyingma rather than Kagyü point of view at the Longchen Foundation.\n\nIn 1976, Trungpa began giving a series of secular teachings, some of which were gathered and presented as the Shambhala Training, inspired by his vision (see terma) of the legendary Kingdom of Shambhala. Trungpa had actually started writing about Shambhala before his 1959 escape from Tibet to India, but most of those writings were lost during the escape.\n\nIn his view not only was individual enlightenment not mythical, but the Shambhala Kingdom, an enlightened society, could in fact be actualized. The practice of Shambhala vision is to use mindfulness/awareness meditation as a way to connect with one's basic goodness and confidence. It is presented as a path that \"brings dignity, confidence, and wisdom to every facet of life.\" Trungpa proposed to lead the Kingdom as \"sakyong\" (Tib. earth protector) with his wife as queen-consort or \"sakyong wangmo.\"\n\nShambhala vision is described as a nonreligious approach rooted in meditation and accessible to individuals of any, or no, religion. In Shambhala terms, it is possible, moment by moment, for individuals to establish enlightened society. His book, \"\", provides a concise collection of the Shambhala views. According to Trungpa, it was his intention to propagate the kingdom of Shambala that provided the necessary inspiration to leave his homeland and make the arduous journey to India and the West.\n\nFrom the beginning of his time in the US, Trungpa encouraged his students to integrate a contemplative approach into their everyday activities. In addition to making a variety of traditional contemplative practices available to the community, he incorporated his students' already existing interests (especially anything relating to Japanese culture), evolving specialized teachings on a meditative approach to these various disciplines. These included kyūdō (Japanese archery), calligraphy, ikebana (flower arranging), Sadō (Japanese tea ceremony), dance, theater, film, poetry, health care, and psychotherapy. His aim was, in his own words, to bring \"art to everyday life.\" He founded the Nalanda Foundation in 1974 as an umbrella organization for these activities.\n\nTrungpa visited Nova Scotia for the first time in 1977. In 1983 he established Gampo Abbey, a Karma Kagyü monastery in Cape Breton. The following year, 1984–85, he observed a yearlong retreat at Mill Village and in 1986 he moved his home and Vajradhatu's international headquarters to Halifax.\n\nBy then he was in failing health due to the auto accident in his youth and years of heavy alcohol use. On September 28, 1986, he suffered cardiac arrest, after which his condition deteriorated, requiring intensive care at the hospital, then at his home and finally, in mid-March 1987, back at the hospital, where he died on April 4, 1987.\n\nIn 2006 his wife, Diana Mukpo, wrote, \"Although he had many of the classic health problems that develop from heavy drinking, it was in fact more likely the diabetes and high blood pressure that led to abnormal blood sugar levels and then the cardiac arrest\". But in a November 2008 interview, when asked \"What was he ill with? What did he die of?,\" Trungpa's doctor, Mitchell Levy, replied, \"He had chronic liver disease related to his alcohol intake over many years.\" One of Trungpa's nursing attendants reported that he suffered in his last months from classic symptoms of terminal alcoholism and cirrhosis, yet continued drinking heavily. She added, \"At the same time there was a power about him and an equanimity to his presence that was phenomenal, that I don't know how to explain.\"\n\nTrungpa is reported to have remained in a state of samādhi for five days after his death, his body not immediately decaying and his heart remaining warm. His body was packed in salt, laid in a wooden box, and conveyed to Karmê Chöling. A number of observers have reported that his cremation there on May 26, 1987, was accompanied by various atmospheric effects and other signs traditionally viewed as marks of enlightenment. These included the appearance of rainbows, circling eagles, and a cloud in the shape of an \"Ashe\".\n\nUpon Trungpa's death, the leadership of Vajradhatu was first carried on by his American disciple, appointed regent and Dharma heir, Ösel Tendzin (Thomas Rich), and then by Trungpa's eldest son and Shambhala heir, Sakyong Mipham Rinpoche.\n\nThe next Trungpa tülku, Chokyi Sengay, was recognized in 1991 by Tai Situ Rinpoche.\n\nMajor lineage holders of Trungpa's Tibetan Buddhist traditions and many other Buddhist teachers supported his work.\n\nIn 1974, Trungpa invited the 16th Karmapa, head of the Karma Kagyu lineage, to come to the West and offer teachings. Based on this visit, the Karmapa proclaimed Trungpa one of the principal Kagyu lineage holders in the west:\nThe ancient and renowned lineage of the Trungpas, since the great siddha Trungmase Chökyi Gyamtso Lodrö, possessor of only holy activity, has in every generation given rise to great beings. Awakened by the vision of these predecessors in the lineage, this my present lineage holder, Chökyi Gyamtso Trungpa Rinpoche, supreme incarnate being, has magnificently carried out the vajra holders' discipline in the land of America, bringing about the liberation of students and ripening them in the dharma. This wonderful truth is clearly manifest.\n\nAccordingly, I empower Chögyam Trungpa Vajra Holder and Possessor of the Victory Banner of the Practice Lineage of the Karma Kagyu. Let this be recognized by all people of both elevated and ordinary station.\nIn 1981, Trungpa and his students hosted the 14th Dalai Lama in his visit to Boulder, Colorado. Of Trungpa, the Dalai Lama later wrote, \"Exceptional as one of the first Tibetan lamas to become fully assimilated into Western culture, he made a powerful contribution to revealing the Tibetan approach to inner peace in the West.\"\n\nTrungpa also received support from one of his own main teachers, Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche, head of the Nyingma lineage. In addition to numerous sadhanas and poems dedicated to Trungpa, Khyentse Rinpoche wrote a supplication after Trungpa's death specifically naming him a mahasiddha. Among other Tibetan lamas to name Trungpa a mahasiddha are the Sixteenth Karmapa, Thrangu Rinpoche, Khenpo Tsultrim Gyamtso Rinpoche and Tai Situpa.\n\nThe Dzogchen Ponlop Rinpoche said, \"As taught in the Buddhist scriptures, there are nine qualities of a perfect master of buddhadharma. The eleventh Chögyam Trungpa Rinpoche possessed all nine of these.\"\n\nSuzuki Roshi, founder of the San Francisco Zen Center and Tassajara Zen Mountain Center, and another important exponent of Buddhism to western students, described Trungpa in the context of a talk about emptiness:\nThe way you can struggle with this is to be supported by something, something you don't know. As we are human beings, there must be that kind of feeling. You must feel it in this city or building or community. So whatever community it may be, it is necessary for it to have this kind of spiritual support.\n\nThat is why I respect Trungpa Rinpoche. He is supporting us. You may criticize him because he drinks alcohol like I drink water, but that is a minor problem. He trusts you completely. He knows that if he is always supporting you in a true sense you will not criticize him, whatever he does. And he doesn't mind whatever you say. That is not the point, you know. This kind of big spirit, without clinging to some special religion or form of practice, is necessary for human beings.\nGehlek Rinpoche, who lived with Trungpa when they were young monks in India and later visited and taught with him in the U.S., remarked:\n\nHe was a great Tibetan yogi, a friend, and a master. The more I deal with Western Dharma students, the more I appreciate how he presented the dharma and the activities that he taught. Whenever I meet with difficulties, I begin to understand – sometimes before solving the problem, sometimes afterward – why Trungpa Rinpoche did some unconventional things. I do consider him to be the father of Tibetan Buddhism in the United States. In my opinion, he left very early – too early. His death was a great loss. Everything he did is significant.\nDiana Mukpo, his wife, stated:\n\nFirst, Rinpoche always wanted feedback. He very, very much encouraged his students’ critical intelligence. One of the reasons that people were in his circle was that they were willing to be honest and direct with him. He definitely was not one of those teachers who asked for obedience and wanted their students not to think for themselves. He thrived, he lived, on the intelligence of his students. That is how he built his entire teaching situation.\n\nFrom my perspective, I could always be pretty direct with him. Maybe I was not hesitant to do that because I really trusted the unconditional nature of our relationship. I felt there was really nothing to lose by being absolutely direct with him, and he appreciated that.\nAmong the forebears formally acknowledged by the Trungpa lineage, and referred to by Trungpa, were the Indian mahasiddha Ḍombipa (also known as Ḍombi Heruka; his name may have stemmed from his consorting with Dhombis, outcast women) and Drukpa Künlek (also Kunley), the Mad Yogi of Bhutan, who converted Bhutan to Buddhism and was famous for his fondness for beer and women. Both were recognized for their powerful but unorthodox teaching styles.\n\nTrungpa's own teaching style was often unconventional. In his own words, \"When we talk about compassion, we talk in terms of being kind. But compassion is not so much being kind; it is being creative to wake a person up.\" He did not encourage his students to imitate his own behavior, and was troubled by those who felt empowered by his example to do whatever they wanted and manipulate people. As the third Jamgön Kongtrül explained to Trungpa's students, \"You shouldn't imitate or judge the behavior of your teacher, Chögyam Trungpa Rinpoche, unless you can imitate his mind.\"\n\nTrungpa's sexuality has been one of the sources of controversy, as he cultivated relations with a number of his female students. Tenzin Palmo, who met him in 1962 while he was still at Oxford, did not become one of his consorts, refusing his advances because he had presented himself as \"a pure monk.\" But Palmo stated that had she known Trungpa had been having sexual relations with women since he was 13, she would not have declined. Trungpa formally renounced his monastic vows in 1969.\n\nTrungpa was also known for smoking tobacco and liberally using alcohol; many who knew him characterized him as an alcoholic. He began drinking occasionally shortly after arriving in India. Before coming to the US, Trungpa drove a sports car into a joke shop in Dumfries, Scotland. While his companion was not seriously injured, Trungpa was left partially paralyzed. Later, he described this event as a pivotal moment that inspired the course of his teachings. Some accounts ascribe the accident to drinking. Others suggest he may have had a stroke. According to Trungpa himself, he blacked out.\n\nTrungpa often combined drinking with teaching. David Chadwick recounts: \n\nSuzuki [Roshi] asked Trungpa to give a talk to the students in the zendo the next night. Trungpa walked in tipsy and sat on the edge of the altar platform with his feet dangling. But he delivered a crystal-clear talk, which some felt had a quality – like Suzuki's talks – of not only being about the dharma but being itself the dharma.\nIn some instances Trungpa was too drunk to walk and had to be carried. Also, according to his student John Steinbeck IV and his wife, on a couple of occasions Trungpa's speech was unintelligible. One woman reported serving him \"big glasses of gin first thing in the morning.\"\n\nThe Steinbecks wrote \"The Other Side of Eden\", a sharply critical memoir of their lives with Trungpa in which they claim that, in addition to alcohol, he spent $40,000 a year on cocaine, and used Seconal to come down from the cocaine. The Steinbecks said the cocaine use was kept secret from the wider Vajradhatu community.\n\nAn incident that became a cause célèbre among some poets and artists was the Halloween party at Snowmass Colorado Seminary in 1975, held during a 3-month period of intensive meditation and study of the Hinayana, Mahayana, and Vajrayana vehicles of Tibetan Buddhism. The poet W. S. Merwin had arrived at the Naropa Institute that summer and been told by Allen Ginsberg that he ought to attend the seminary. Although he had not gone through the several years' worth of study and preparatory mind training required, Merwin insisted on attending and Trungpa eventually granted his request – along with Merwin's girlfriend. At seminary the couple kept to themselves. At the Halloween party, after many, including Trungpa himself, had taken off their clothes, Merwin was asked to join the event but refused. On Trungpa's orders, his Vajra Guard forced entry into the poet's locked and barricaded room; brought him and his girlfriend, Dana Naone, against their will, to the party; and eventually stripped them of all their clothes, with onlookers ignoring Naone's pleas for help and for someone to call the police. The next day Trungpa asked Merwin and Naone to remain at the Seminary as either students or guests. They agreed to stay for several more weeks to hear the Vajrayana teachings, with Trungpa's promise that \"there would be no more incidents\" and Merwin's that there would be \"no guarantees of obedience, trust, or personal devotion to him.\" They left immediately after the last talk. In a 1977 letter to members of a Naropa class investigating the incident, Merwin concluded,\n\nMy feelings about Trungpa have been mixed from the start. Admiration, throughout, for his remarkable gifts; and reservations, which developed into profound misgivings, concerning some of his uses of them. I imagine, at least, that I've learned some things from him (though maybe not all of them were the things I was \"supposed\" to learn) and some through him, and I'm grateful to him for those. I wouldn't encourage anyone to become a student of his. I wish him well.\nThe incident became known to a wider public when Tom Clark published \"The Great Naropa Poetry Wars\". The Naropa Institute later asked Ed Sanders and his class to conduct an internal investigation, resulting in a lengthy report.\n\nEliot Weinberger commented on the incident in a critique aimed at Trungpa and Allen Ginsberg published in \"The Nation\" on April 19, 1980. He complained that the fascination of some of the best minds of his generation with Trungpa's presentation of Tibetan Buddhism and Tibetan theocracy created a dangerous exclusivity and elitism.\n\nAuthor Jeffery Paine commented on this incident that \"[s]eeing Merwin out of step with the rest, Trungpa could have asked him to leave, but decided it was kinder to shock him out of his aloofness.\" Paine also noted the outrage felt in particular by poets such as Robert Bly and Kenneth Rexroth, who began calling Trungpa a fascist.\n\nTrungpa's choice of Westerner Ösel Tendzin as his dharma heir was controversial, as Tendzin was the first Western Tibetan Buddhist lineage holder and Vajra Regent. This was exacerbated by Tendzin's own behavior as lineage holder. While knowingly HIV-positive, Tendzin was sexually involved with students, one of whom became infected and died.\n\n1940: Born in Kham, Eastern Tibet. Enthroned as eleventh Trungpa Tulku, Supreme Abbot of Surmang Monasteries, and Governor of Surmang District. Some put his birth in 1939.\n\n1944–59: Studies traditional monastic disciplines, meditation, and philosophy, as well as calligraphy, thangka painting, and monastic dance.\n\n1947: Ordained as a shramanera (novice monk).\n\n1958: Receives degrees of Kyorpön (Doctor of Divinity) and Khenpo (Master of Studies). Ordained as a bhikshu (full monk).\n\n1959–60: Follows the Dalai Lama to India during the 1959 Tibetan uprising, which failed to overthrow the Chinese government.\n\n1960–63: By appointment of the 14th Dalai Lama, serves as spiritual advisor to the Young Lamas' Home School in Dalhousie, India.\n\n1962: Fathers first son, Ösel Rangdröl (Mukpo), by a nun later referred to as Lady Kunchok Palden (or Lady Konchok Palden).\n\n1963–67: Attends Oxford University on a Spaulding scholarship, studying comparative religion, philosophy, and fine arts. Receives instructor's degree of the Sogetsu School of ikebana (Japanese flower arrangement).\n\n1967: Co-founds, with Akong Rinpoche, Kagyu Samyé Ling Monastery and Tibetan Centre, in Dumfriesshire, Scotland.\n\n1969: Travels to Bhutan and goes on solitary retreat.\n\n1969: Receives \"The Sadhana of Mahamudra\" terma text while on retreat in Paro Taktsang, a sacred cliffside monastery in Bhutan.\n\n1969: Becomes the first Tibetan British subject. Injured in a car accident, leaving him partially paralyzed.\n\n1970: After the accident Chögyam Trungpa renounces his monastic vows. He claims that the dharma needs to be free of cultural trappings to take root.\n\n1970: Marries wealthy sixteen-year-old English student Diana Judith Pybus.\n\n1970: Arrives in North America. Establishes Tail of the Tiger, a Buddhist meditation and study center in Vermont, now known as Karmê Chöling. Establishes Karma Dzong, a Buddhist community in Boulder, Colorado.\n\n1971: Begins teaching at University of Colorado. Establishes Rocky Mountain Dharma Center, now known as Shambhala Mountain Center, near Fort Collins, Colorado.\n\n1972: Initiates Maitri, a therapeutic program that works with different styles of neurosis using principles of the five buddha families. Conducts the Milarepa Film Workshop, a program which analyzes the aesthetics of film, on Lookout Mountain, Colorado.\n\n1973: Founds Mudra Theater Group, which stages original plays and practices theater exercises, based on traditional Tibetan dance. Incorporates Vajradhatu, an international association of Buddhist meditation and study centers, now known as Shambhala International. Establishes Dorje Khyung Dzong, a retreat facility in southern Colorado. Conducts first annual Vajradhatu Seminary, a three-month advanced practice and study program.\n\n1974: Incorporates Nalanda Foundation, a nonprofit, nonsectarian educational organization to encourage and organize programs in the fields of education, psychology, and the arts. Hosts the first North American visit of The Sixteenth Gyalwang Karmapa, head of the Karma Kagyü lineage. Founds The Naropa Institute, a contemplative studies and liberal arts college, now fully accredited as Naropa University. Forms the organization that will become the Dorje Kasung, a service group entrusted with the protection of the buddhist teachings and the welfare of the community.\n\n1975: Forms the organization that will become the Shambhala Lodge, a group of students dedicated to fostering enlightened society. Founds the Nalanda Translation Committee for the translation of Buddhist texts from Tibetan and Sanskrit. Establishes Ashoka Credit Union.\n\n1976: Hosts the first North American visit of Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche, revered meditation master and scholar of the Nyingma lineage. Hosts a visit of Dudjom Rinpoche, head of the Nyingma lineage. Empowers Thomas F. Rich as his dharma heir, known thereafter as Vajra Regent Ösel Tendzin.\nEstablishes the Kalapa Court in Boulder, Colorado, as his residence and a cultural center for the Vajradhatu community. Receives the first of several Shambhala terma texts (see termas). These comprise the literary source for the Shambhala teachings. Founds Alaya Preschool in Boulder, Colorado.\n\n1977: Bestows the Vajrayogini abhisheka for the first time in the West for students who have completed ngöndro practice. Establishes the celebration of Shambhala Day. Observes a year-long retreat in Charlemont, Massachusetts. Founds Shambhala Training to promote a secular approach to meditation practice and an appreciation of basic human goodness. Visits Nova Scotia for the first time.\n\n1978: Conducts the first annual Magyal Pomra Encampment, an advanced training program for members of the Dorje Kasung. Conducts the first annual Kalapa Assembly, an intensive training program for advanced Shambhala teachings and practices. Conducts the first Dharma Art seminar. Forms Amara, an association of health professionals. Forms the Upaya Council, a mediation council providing a forum for resolving disputes. Establishes the Midsummer's Day festival and Children's Day.\n\n1979: Empowers his eldest son, Ösel Rangdröl Mukpo, as his successor and heir to the Shambhala lineage. Founds the Shambhala School of Dressage, an equestrian school under the direction of his wife, Lady Diana Mukpo. Founds Vidya Elementary School in Boulder, Colorado.\n\n1980–83: Presents a series of environmental installations and flower arranging exhibitions at art galleries in Los Angeles, San Francisco, Denver, and Boulder.\n\n1980: Forms Kalapa Cha to promote the practice of traditional Japanese Tea Ceremony. With the Nalanda Translation Committee, completes the first English translation of \"The Rain of Wisdom\".\n\n1981: Hosts the visit of the 14th Dalai Lama to Boulder, Colorado. Conducts the first annual Buddhist-Christian Conference in Boulder, Colorado, exploring the common ground between Buddhist and Christian contemplative traditions. Forms Ryuko Kyūdōjō to promote the practice of Kyūdō under the direction of Shibata Kanjuro Sensei, bow maker to the Emperor of Japan. Directs a film, \"Discovering Elegance\", using footage of his environmental installation and flower arranging exhibitions.\n\n1982: Forms Kalapa Ikebana to promote the study and practice of Japanese flower arranging.\n\n1983: Establishes Gampo Abbey, a Karma Kagyü monastery located in Cape Breton, Nova Scotia, for Western students wishing to enter into traditional monastic discipline. Creates a series of elocution exercises to promote precision and mindfulness of speech.\n\n1984–85: Observes a year-long retreat in Mill Village, Nova Scotia.\n\n1986: Moves his home and the international headquarters of Vajradhatu to Halifax, Nova Scotia.\n\n1987: Dies in Halifax; cremated May 26 at Karmê Chöling. (His followers have constructed a chorten or stupa, The Great Stupa of Dharmakaya, located near Red Feather Lakes, Colorado, for his remains.)\n\n1989: The child recognized as his reincarnation, Chokyi Sengay, is born in Derge, Tibet; recognized two years later by Tai Situ Rinpoche.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "766774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=766774", "title": "Coppersmith", "text": "Coppersmith\n\nA coppersmith, also known as a brazier, is a person who makes artifacts from copper and brass. Brass is an alloy of copper and zinc.The term redsmith is used for a tinsmith that uses tinsmithing tools and techniques to make copper items.\n\nAnthropologists believe copper to be the first metal used by humans due to its softness and ease to manipulate. In antiquity, copper's durability and resistance to rust or corrosion proved valuable. Copper's relationship with man is thought to date back over six thousand years.\n\nCopper was particularly worked in England, with ores smelted in Wales as early as the 1500s. Copper was found in great quantities in North America, especially Montana, as well as archaic copper mines near Lake Superior, which was recording by a Jesuit missionary in 1659.\n\nCoppersmithing as a trade benefited strongly from the invention of sheet metal rollers. Copper sheet was then available in a much more versatile and easy form for creating copper wares. By the 1700s, coppersmiths lived in the American colonies, but did not have access to much sheet copper due to the Crown's regulation of copper and other goods to the Americas. Sheet metal production was prohibited in the colonies as well before the American Revolution.\n\nMost coppersmiths can create, from a pattern, copper wares from a sheet of tin. They can also repair, clean and re-tin copper cookware interiors. Some cooper smiths make barrels.Some coppersmiths will specialize in specific forms or items, such as a particular type of biscuit oven or mug or kettle. In the 1700 and 1800's, coppersmiths typically had a few apprentices in various stages of learning the trade working together.\n\nApprentices would start learning the trade usually around 8 or 9 years old. Typical duties of a youth in the copper shop would include tasks such as breaking coke or sal ammoniac blocks, scouring copper pieces to prepare them for tinning, and polishing hammers and tools.\n\nIn regions where copper is mined like Iberia and India there are a number of centres where the coppersmith trade has flourished.\n\nThese include:-\nNotable copper styles in the UK include Newlyn in Cornwall and Keswick in Cumbria. Coppersmith work started waning in the late 1970s and early 1980s and those in the sheetmetal trade began doing the coppersmith's work, the practices used being similar to those in the plumbing trade. Coppermiths in recent years have turned to pipe work, not only in copper but also stainless steel and aluminium, particularly in the aircraft industry. They are one of the few trades that have a mention in the Bible.\n\nCopper is generally considered to be a soft metal, meaning it can be worked without heating. Over a period of working the metal in this way it can \"work-harden\". This means that the molecules within the copper are compressed and irregular in their arrangement. This causes stress in the metal and eventually cracking the metal along these stress points. In order for the copper to be worked to any extensive degree it must be annealed. This process involves heating the metal and then rapidly cooling it in water. The cooling stage is known as quenching. By heating the copper, the molecules in the metal are relaxed, and thus able to align themselves in a more uniform fashion. This allows for easier shaping of the metal. In order to keep this uniformity within the metal, it is cooled instantly. This prevents the molecules from moving around and causing tension in the structure of the metal. Unlike ferrous metals—which must be cooled slowly to anneal—copper can be cooled slowly in air or quickly by quenching in water.\n\n"}
{"id": "10443917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10443917", "title": "Culture of the Song dynasty", "text": "Culture of the Song dynasty\n\nThe Song dynasty (960–1279 AD) was a culturally rich and sophisticated age for China. There was blossoming of and advancements in the visual arts, music, literature, and philosophy. Officials of the ruling bureaucracy, who underwent a strict and extensive examination process, reached new heights of education in Chinese society, while general Chinese culture was enhanced by widespread printing, growing literacy, and various arts.\n\nAppreciation of art among the gentry class flourished during the Song dynasty, especially in regard to paintings, which is an art practiced by many. Trends in painting styles amongst the gentry notably shifted from the Northern (960–1127) to Southern Song (1127–1279) periods, influenced in part by the gradual embrace of the Neo-Confucian political ideology at court.\n\nPeople in urban areas enjoyed theatrical drama on stage, restaurants that catered to a variety of regional cooking, lavish clothing and apparel sold in the markets, while both urban and rural people engaged in seasonal festivities and religious holidays.\n\nChinese painting during the Song dynasty reached a new level of sophistication with further development of landscape painting. The \"shan shui\" style painting—\"shan\" meaning mountain, and \"shui\" meaning river—became prominent features in Chinese landscape art. The emphasis laid upon landscape painting in the Song period was grounded in Chinese philosophy; Taoism stressed that humans were but tiny specks amongst vast and greater cosmos, while Neo-Confucianist writers often pursued the discovery of patterns and principles that they believed caused all social and natural phenomena. The making of glazed and translucent porcelain and celadon wares with complex use of enamels was also developed further during the Song period. Longquan celadon wares were particularly popular in the Song period. Black and red lacquerwares of the Song period featured beautifully carved artwork of miniature nature scenes, landscapes, or simple decorative motifs. However, even though intricate bronze-casting, ceramics and lacquerware, jade carving, sculpture, architecture, and the painting of portraits and closely viewed objects like birds on branches were held in high esteem by the Song Chinese, landscape painting was paramount. By the beginning of the Song dynasty a distinctive landscape style had emerged. Artists mastered the formula of creating intricate and realistic scenes placed in the foreground, while the background retained qualities of vast and infinite space. Distant mountain peaks rise out of high clouds and mist, while streaming rivers run from afar into the foreground.\n\nThere was a significant difference in painting trends between the Northern Song period (960–1127) and Southern Song period (1127–1279). The paintings of Northern Song officials were influenced by their political ideals of bringing order to the world and tackling the largest issues affecting the whole of their society, hence their paintings often depicted huge, sweeping landscapes. On the other hand, Southern Song officials were more interested in reforming society from the bottom up and on a much smaller scale, a method they believed had a better chance for eventual success. Hence, their paintings often focused on smaller, visually closer, and more intimate scenes, while the background was often depicted as bereft of detail as a realm without substance or concern for the artist or viewer. This change in attitude from one era to the next stemmed largely from the rising influence of Neo-Confucian philosophy. Adherents to Neo-Confucianism focused on reforming society from the bottom up, not the top down, which can be seen in their efforts to promote small private academies during the Southern Song instead of the large state-controlled academies seen in the Northern Song era.\nEver since the Southern and Northern Dynasties (420–589), painting had become an art of high sophistication that was associated with the gentry class as one of their main artistic pastimes, the others being calligraphy and poetry. During the Song dynasty there were avid art collectors that would often meet in groups to discuss their own paintings, as well as rate those of their colleagues and friends. The poet and statesman Su Shi (1037–1101) and his accomplice Mi Fu (1051–1107) often partook in these affairs, borrowing art pieces to study and copy, or if they really admired a piece then an exchange was often proposed. The small round paintings popular in the Southern Song were often collected into albums as poets would write poems along the side to match the theme and mood of the painting.\n\nAlthough they were avid art collectors, some Song scholars did not readily appreciate artworks commissioned by those painters found at shops or common marketplaces, and some of the scholars even criticized artists from renowned schools and academies. Anthony J. Barbieri-Low, a Professor of Early Chinese History at the University of California, Santa Barbara, points out that Song scholars' appreciation of art created by their peers was not extended to those who made a living simply as professional artists:\n\nDuring the Northern Song (960–1126 CE), a new class of scholar-artists emerged who did not possess the tromp l'oiel skills of the academy painters nor even the proficiency of common marketplace painters. The literati's painting was simpler and at times quite unschooled, yet they would criticize these other two groups as mere professionals, since they relied on paid commissions for their livelihood and did not paint merely for enjoyment or self-expression. The scholar-artists considered that painters who concentrated on realistic depictions, who employed a colorful palette, or, worst of all, who accepted monetary payment for their work were no better than butchers or tinkers in the marketplace. They were not to be considered real artists.\n\nHowever, during the Song period, there were many acclaimed court painters and they were highly esteemed by emperors and the royal family. One of the greatest landscape painters given patronage by the Song court was Zhang Zeduan (1085–1145), who painted the original \"Along the River During Qingming Festival\" scroll, one of the most well-known masterpieces of Chinese visual art. Emperor Gaozong of Song (1127–1162) once commissioned an art project of numerous paintings for the \"Eighteen Songs of a Nomad Flute\", based on the woman poet Cai Wenji (177–250 AD) of the earlier Han dynasty. The Southern Song dynasty court painters included Zhao Mengjian (趙孟堅, c. 1199–1264), a member of the Imperial family, known for popularising the Three Friends of Winter.\n\nDuring the Song period Buddhism saw a small revival since its persecution during the Tang dynasty. This could be seen in the continued construction of sculpture artwork at the Dazu Rock Carvings in Sichuan province. Similar in design to the sculptures at Dazu, the Song temple at Mingshan in Anyue, Sichuan province features a wealth of Song era Buddhist sculptures, including the Buddha and deities clad in lavish imperial and monastic robes.\n\nChinese literature during the Song period contained a range of many different genres and was enriched by the social complexity of the period. Although the earlier Tang dynasty is viewed as the zenith era for Chinese poetry (particularly the \"shi\" style poetry of Du Fu, Li Bai, Bai Juyi), there were important poetic developments by famous poets of the Song era, with the flourishing of the \"ci\" form being especially being associated with Song poetry. Song developments in poetry included the works of the social critic and pioneer of the \"new subjective style\" Mei Yaochen (1002–1060), the politically controversial yet renowned master Su Shi (1037–1101), the eccentric yet brilliant Mi Fu (1051–1107), the premier Chinese female poet Li Qingzhao (1084–1151), and many others. Although having roots in the Liang dynasty (502–557 AD), and further development during the brief existence of the Southern Tang immediate preceding the Song, the \"ci\" form of Chinese poetry found its greatest acceptance and popularity during the Song dynasty, and was used by most Song poets. The high court Chancellor Fan Zhongyan (989–1052), ardent Neo-Confucian Ouyang Xiu (1007–1072), the great calligrapher Huang Tingjian (1045–1105), and the military general Xin Qiji (1140–1207) were especially known for their ci poetry, amongst many others. The great \"ci\" poet Li Yu (who ruled the Southern Tang under the name Li Houzhu) wrote some of his most famous works during his time as a prisoner at the first Song court, following the demise of his former kingdom: Li Yu is an important transitional figure, sometimes considered to be the first major Song poet, and sometimes acclaimed as the last major Tang poet.\n\nHistoriography in literature remained prominent during the Song, as it had in previous ages and would in successive ages of China. Along with Song Qi, the essayist and historian Ouyang Xiu were responsible for compiling the \"New Book of Tang\" by 1060, covering the history of the Tang dynasty. Chancellor Sima Guang (1019–1086), the political nemesis of Wang Anshi (1021–1086), was responsible for heading a team of scholars that compiled the enormous historical work of the \"Zizhi Tongjian\", a universal history completed in 1084 AD with a total of over 3 million written Chinese characters in 294 volumes. It covered the major themes and intricate nuances of Chinese history from 425 BC during the Warring States all the way up to the 10th century and the fall of the Tang. In 1189 it was compiled and condensed into fifty-nine books by Zhu Xi (1130–1200), while this project was totally complete with the efforts of his disciples around the time of his death in 1200.\n\nThere were also very large encyclopedic works written in the Song period, such as the \"Four Great Books of Song\" compiled first by Li Fang in the 10th century and fully edited by the time of Cefu Yuangui in the 11th century. The largest of these was the 1013 publication of the \"Prime Tortoise of the Record Bureau\", a massive encyclopedia consisting of 9.4 million written Chinese characters divided into 1000 volumes. There were also rhyme dictionaries written during the Song dynasty, such as the \"Jiyun\" of 1037. Although Neo-Confucianism became dominant over Buddhism in China during this period, there was still a significant amount of Buddhist literature. For example, there was the collection of Zen Buddhist kōans in the \"Blue Cliff Record\" of 1125, which was expanded by Yuanwu Keqin (1063–1135). 'Travel record literature' ('youji wenxue') was also a popular category of literature during the Song period, which was accounts of one's own travel experiences typically written in narrative or prose styles, and included authors such as Fan Chengda (1126–1193). A great example of Chinese travel literature in the Song period would be Su Shi's (1037–1101) \"Record of Stone Bell Mountain\".\n\nThere were many technical and scientific writings during the Song period. The two most eminent authors of the scientific and technical fields were Shen Kuo (1031–1095) and his contemporary Su Song (1020–1101). Shen Kuo published his \"Dream Pool Essays\" in 1088 AD, an enormous encyclopedic book that covered a wide range of subjects, including literature, art, military strategy, mathematics, astronomy, meteorology, geology, geography, metallurgy, engineering, hydraulics, architecture, zoology, botany, agronomy, medicine, anthropology, archeology, and more. As for Shen Kuo's equally brilliant peer, Su Song created a celestial atlas of five different star maps, wrote the 1070 AD pharmaceutical treatise of the \"Ben Cao Tu Jing\" (Illustrated Pharmacopoeia), which had the related subjects of botany, zoology, metallurgy, and mineralogy, and wrote his famous horological treatise of the \"Xin Yi Xiang Fa Yao\" in 1092 AD, which described in full detail his ingenious astronomical clock tower constructed in the capital city of Kaifeng. Although these two figures were perhaps the greatest technical authors in their field during the time, there were many others. For producing textiles, Qin Guan's book of 1090 AD, the \"Can Shu\" (Book of Sericulture), included description of a silk-reeling machine that incorporated the earliest known use of the mechanical belt drive in order to function. In the literary field of agronomy, there was the \"Jiu Huang Huo Min Shu\" (The Rescue of the People; a Treatise on Famine Prevention and Relief) edited by Dong Wei in the 12th century, the \"Cha Lu\" (Record of Tea) written by Cai Xiang in 1060 AD, the \"Zhu Zi Cang Fa\" (Master Zhu on Managing Communal Granaries) written by Zhu Xi in 1182 AD, and many others. There were also great authors of written works pertaining to geography and cartography during the Song, such as Yue Shi (his book in 983), Wang Zhu (in 1051), Li Dechu (in 1080), Chen Kunchen (in 1111), Ouyang Wen (in 1117), and Zhu Mu (in 1240). Although an early form of the local geographic gazetteer existed in China since the 1st century, the matured form known as \"treatise on a place\", or \"fangzhi\", replaced the old \"map guide\", or \"tujing\", under the Song. The major differences between the two were that \"fangzhi\" were products of local initiative and decision-making, were typically ten to fifty chapters in length, and were almost always printed for a large audience, whereas \"tujing\" were products of infrequent demands from the central government and were typically only four chapters long. The widespread availability of printing in the Song allowed many ordinary people to access materials that were once read almost exclusively by experts, such as printed texts and handbooks on agriculture, childbirth, pharmacy and medicine, domestic economics, geography, divination, and Taoist rituals.\n\nTheatre and drama in China trace their roots back to the academy of music known as the Pear Garden, founded in the early 8th century during the Tang dynasty. However, historian Stephen H. West asserts that the Northern Song era capital Kaifeng was the first real center where the performing arts became \"an industry, a conglomerate involving theatre, gambling, prostitution, and food.\" The rise in consumption by merchants and scholar-officials, he states, \"accelerated the growth of both the performance and the food industries,\" asserting a direct link between the two due to their close proximity within the cities. Of the fifty some theatres located in the 'pleasure districts' of Kaifeng, four of these theatres were large enough to entertain audiences of several thousand each, drawing huge crowds which nearby businesses thrived upon. The chief crowd that gathered was composed of those from the merchant class, while government officials only went to restaurants and attended theatre performances during holidays.\n\nFrom Kaifeng, the \"zaju\" dramatic style employed the \"beiqu\" style of poetic lyrics. After the capital had shifted to Hangzhou, the dramatic style of \"xiwen\" (also \"nanxi\" or \"nanqu\") developed separately. These two different regional genres of musical drama used different regional dialects of speech, recitation, and dialogue, entailed their own unique sets of role types (\"juese\"), and employed different types of musical instruments playing different tunes. In Kaifeng drama, one singer was preferred for each play, accompanied by string and percussion instruments. In Hangzhou drama, there was a multitude of singers on stage for each set, while string and wind instruments were preferred.\n\nColor and clothing distinguished the rank of theatre actors in the Song. Similar to vendors who wore specific outfits to identify which guild they belonged to, actors' generic costumes reflected the role type they played on stage, whether it be student, young man, young woman, official, soldier, etc. Actors honed their theatrical skills at drama schools. Musicians also found work in the theatre industry, since plays performed in the markets were often accompanied by music. Actors on stage always spoke their lines in Classical Chinese; vernacular Chinese that imitated the common spoken language was not introduced into theatrical performances until the Yuan dynasty. Although trained to speak in the erudite Classical language, acting troupes commonly drew their membership from one of the lowest classes in society: prostitutes. Themes enjoyed in stage skits varied from satires about corrupt officials to comedy acts with titles like \"Setting fire when delivering the soup,\" \"Raising a ruckus in the winehouse,\" \"The peony smells best when the wine is stolen,\" and \"Catching a monkey in a restaurant.\" The only \"xiwen\" play to have survived from the Southern Song era is the \"Zhang Xie zhuang yuan\" (张協狀元), featuring interludes such as a clown stealing food and wine at a wedding banquet in act 16 and a quick comedy sketch about renting a room in act 24.\n\nSurprisingly, actors on stage did not have a wholesale monopoly on theatrical entertainment, as even vendors and peddlers in the street, singing lewd songs and beating on whatever they could find to compensate for percussion instruments, could draw crowds. This practice was so widespread that West claims \"the city itself was turned into a stage and the citizens into the essential audience.\" Many of the songs played for stage performances were tunes that originated from vendors' and peddlers' songs. Contests were held on New Year's Day to determine which vendor or peddler had the best chants and songs while selling wares; the winners were brought before the imperial court to perform. The \"Wulin jiushi\" of the Southern Song states that these vendors, when presented to the consorts and concubines of the palace, were lavished with heaps of gold and pearls for their wares; some vendors would \"become rich in a single evening.\" Theatrical stunts were also performed to gain attention, such as fried-glutinous-rice-ball vendors hanging small red lamps on portable bamboo racks who would twirl them around to the beat of a drum to dazzle crowds. Puppet shows in the streets and wards were also popular.\n\nIn ancient China there were many domestic and public pleasures in the rich urban environment unique to the Song dynasty. For the austere and hardworking peasantry, annual festivals and holidays provided a time of joy and relaxation, and for the poorest it meant a chance to borrow food and alcoholic drink so that everyone could join in the celebration. People would gather around their local sanctuary to observe the festival's games, theatrical entertainments, juggling, clowning, and other performances. The festivities on New Years were considered the most important of the year by the Chinese, its momentous occasion correlating with the beginning of February on the Western calendar. Preparations for the New Years festival took place over a month's time, as people busied themselves painting door gods, crafting paper streamers with lucky characters for \"welcoming the spring,\" making printed images of Zhong Kui, and cooking special kinds of foods such as porridge of red haricot beans. The widely popular Lantern Festival was held every 15th day of 1st lunar month. According to the literatus and official Zhou Mi (1232–1298 AD), during the Xiao-Zong period (1163–1189 AD) the best lantern festivals were held at Suzhou and Fuzhou, while Hangzhou was also known for the its great variety of colorful paper lanterns, in all shapes and sizes. Meng Yuanlao (active 1126–1147) recalled in Dongjing Meng Hua Lu (Dreams of Splendor of the Eastern Capital) how the earlier Northern Song capital at Kaifeng would host festivals with tens of thousands of colorful and brightly lit paper lanterns hoisted on long poles up and down the main street, the poles also wrapped in colorful silk with numerous dramatic paper figures flying in the wind like fairies. There were also other venerated holidays, such as the Qingming Festival, as it was supposedly this period of the year that was depicted in the artwork (mentioned above) by the artist Zhang Zeduan (although some would argue the painting actually represented the time of autumn in the year).\n\nWith the advent of the discovery of gunpowder in China, lavish fireworks displays could also be held during festivities. For example, the martial demonstration in 1110 AD to entertain the court of Emperor Huizong, when it was recorded that a large fireworks display was held alongside Chinese dancers in strange costumes moving through clouds of colored smoke in their performance. The common people also purchased firecrackers from city shopkeepers and vendors, made of simple sticks of bamboo filled with a small amount of gunpowder.\n\nAlthough they were discontinued after the devastation of the Anshi Rebellion (755–763) during the Tang dynasty, lavish Chinese carnivals were revived and once again celebrated during the Song dynasty. Chinese carnival celebrations were held nationwide when the emperor felt a great occasion warranted a grand display of his benevolence and generosity, such as renowned military victories, abundant harvests after long droughts or famines, the granting of grand amnesties by the throne, sacrifices to deities, the installation of a crown prince, marriages within the imperial family, etc.\n\nThere were many types of clothing and different clothing trends in the Song period, yet clothes in China were always modeled after the seasons and as outward symbols of one's social class. Coal used for heating one's home was scarce and often expensive, so people often wore clothing with extra silk-floss and fur-lined coats in the winter. The clothing material preferred by the rich was silk, and for special occasions they had silk robes with gold brocade. The clothing material used by the poor was often hempen cloth, but cotton clothes were also used, the latter being most widely available in the south. The types of clothes worn by peasants and commoners were largely uniform in appearance (with color standard of black and white), and so was the case for the upper class and elite. In fact, wealthy and leading members of society followed accepted guidelines and ritual requirements for clothing. In the upper class, each stratified grade in the social hierarchy was distinguished by the color and specific ornamentation of robes, the shape and type of headgear, and even the style of girdle worn. This rigid order was especially so during the beginning of the dynasty. However, the lines of hierarchy slowly began to blur as the color purple, once reserved solely for the attire of third rank officials or higher, began to diffuse amongst all ranks of officials who bore the color indiscriminately. Along with lower grade civil officials in the government protesting the rigid regulations for attire, the wealthy members of the merchant class also contributed to the disintegration of rules for ceremonial attire worn only by certain members of society. Yet there were still visible distinctions between civil officials and the class of rich merchants and business owners; the officials were distinguished by their long robes reaching to the ground, while merchants often wore a blouse that came down below the waist with trousers. Pants and trousers were introduced to China during the Warring States in the 4th century BC, and were not exclusive to merchants; every soldier wore trousers as part of his uniform, while trousers were also worn by the common people. Although most men were cleanshaven, soldiers, military officers, and professional boxing champions preferred side-whiskers and goatee beards, as they were a sign of virility.\n\nThe attire of Song women was distinguished from men's clothing by being fastened on the left, not on the right. Women wore long dresses or blouses that came down almost to the knee. They also wore skirts and jackets with short or long sleeves. When strolling about outside and along the road, women of wealthy means chose to wear square purple scarves around their shoulders. Ladies also wore hairpins and combs in their hair, while princesses, imperial concubines, and the wives of officials and wealthy merchants wore head ornaments of gold and silver that were shaped in the form of phoenixes and flowers.\n\nPeople in the Song dynasty never left their homes barefoot, and always had some sort of headgear on. Shops in the city specialized in certain types of hats and headgear, including caps with pointed tails, as well as belts and waistwraps. Only Buddhist monks shaved their heads and strolled about with no headgear or hat of any sort to cover their heads. For footwear, people could purchase leather shoes called 'oiled footwear', wooden sandals, hempen sandals, and the more expensive satin slippers.\n\nFrom the Song period, works such as Dongjing Meng Hua Lu (Dreams of Splendor of the Eastern Capital) preserve lists of names for entrées and food dishes in customer menus for restaurants and taverns, as well as for feasts at banquets, festivals and carnivals, and modest dining. Many of the peculiar names for these dishes do not provide clues as to what types of food ingredients were used. However, judging from the listed seasonings they used for these dishes, such as pepper, ginger, soya sauce, oil, salt, and vinegar, Song era cuisine is perhaps not too different from the Chinese cuisine of today. Other additional seasonings and ingredients included walnuts, turnips, crushed Chinese cardamon kernels, fagara, olives, ginkgo nuts, citrus zest, and sesame oil.\n\nRegional differences in culture brought about different types of foods, while in certain areas the cooking traditions of regional cultures blended together; such was the case of the Southern Song capital at Hangzhou. After the mass exodus from the north, people brought Henan-style cooking and foods (popular in the previous Northern Song capital at Kaifeng) to Hangzhou, which was blended with the cooking traditions of Zhejiang. However, records indicate that already in the Northern Song period, the first capital at Kaifeng sported restaurants that served southern Chinese cuisine. This catered to capital officials whose native provinces were in the southeast, and would have found northern cuisine lacking in sufficient seasoning for their tastes. In fact, texts from the Song era provide the first use of the phrases \"nanshi\", \"beishi\", and \"chuanfan\" to refer specifically to northern, southern, and Sichuan cooking, respectively. Many restaurants were known for their specialties; for example, there was one restaurant in Hangzhou that served only iced foods, while some restaurants catered to those who wanted either hot, warm, room temperature, or cold foods. Descendants of those from Kaifeng owned most of the restaurants found in Hangzhou, but many other regional varieties in foodstuffs and cooking were sponsored by restaurants. This included restaurants catering Sichuan cuisine that emphasized use of pepper, dishes and beverages from Hebei and Shandong, and coastal foods of shrimp and saltwater fish. The memory and patience of waiters had to be keen; in the larger restaurants, serving dinner parties that required twenty or so dishes became a hassle if even a slight error occurred. If a guest reported the mistake of a waiter to the head of the restaurant, the waiter could be verbally reprimanded, have his salary docked, or in extreme cases, kicked out of the establishment for good.\nIn the early morning in Hangzhou, along the wide avenue of the Imperial Way, special breakfast items and delicacies were sold. This included fried tripe, pieces of mutton or goose, soups of various kinds, hot pancakes, steamed pancakes, and iced cakes. Noodle shops were also popular, and remained open all day and night along the Imperial Way. According to one Song source on Kaifeng, the night markets closed at the third night watch but reopened on the fifth, while they had also gained a reputation for staying open during winter storms and the darkest, rainiest days of winter.\n\nThere were also some exotic foreign foods imported to China from abroad, including raisins, dates, Persian jujubes, and grape wine; rice wine was more common in China, a fact noted even by the 13th century Venetian traveler Marco Polo. Although grape-based wine had been known in China since the ancient Han dynasty Chinese ventured into Hellenistic Central Asia, grape-wine was often reserved for the elite. Besides wine, other beverages included pear juice, lychee fruit juice, honey and ginger drinks, tea, and pawpaw juice. Dairy products and farming were foreign concepts to the Chinese, which explains the absence of cheese and milk in their diet. Beef was also rarely eaten, since the bull was an important draft animal. The main diet of the lower classes remained rice, pork, and salted fish, while it is known from restaurant dinner menus that the upper classes did not eat dog meat. The rich are known to have consumed an array of different meats, such as chicken, shellfish, fallow deer, hares, partridge, pheasant, francolin, quail, fox, badger, clam, crab, and many others. Local freshwater fish from the nearby lake and river were also caught and brought to market, while the West Lake provided geese and duck as well. Common fruits that were consumed included melons, pomegranates, lychees, longans, golden oranges, jujubes, Chinese and Japanese quinces, apricots and pears; in the region around Hangzhou alone, there were eleven kinds of apricots and eight different kinds of pears that were produced. Specialties and combination dishes in the Song period included scented shellfish cooked in rice-wine, geese with apricots, lotus-seed soup, spicy soup with mussels and fish cooked with plums, sweet soya soup, baked sesame buns stuffed with either sour bean filling or pork tenderloin, mixed vegetable buns, fragrant candied fruit, strips of ginger and fermented beanpaste, jujube-stuffed steamed dumplings, fried chestnuts, salted fermented bean soup, fruit cooked in scented honey, and 'honey crisps' of kneaded and baked honey, flour, mutton fat and pork lard. Dessert molds of oiled flour and sugared honey were shaped into girls' faces or statuettes of soldiers with full armor like door guards, and were called \"likeness foods\" (\"guoshi\").\n\nSong intellectuals sought answers to all philosophical and political questions in the Confucian Classics. This renewed interest in the Confucian ideals and society of ancient times coincided with the decline of Buddhism, which was then largely regarded as foreign, and as offering few solutions for practical problems. However, Buddhism in this period continued as a cultural underlay to the more accepted Confucianism and even Taoism, both seen as native and pure by conservative Neo-Confucians. The continuing popularity of Buddhism can be seen with strong evidence by achievements in the arts, such as the 100 painting set of the \"Five Hundred Luohan\", completed by Lin Tinggui and Zhou Jichang in 1178.\n\nThe conservative Confucian movement could be seen before the likes of Zhu Xi (1130–1200), with staunch anti-Buddhists such as Ouyang Xiu (1007–1072). In his written work of the \"Ben-lun\", he wrote of his theory for how Buddhism had so easily penetrated Chinese culture during the earlier Southern and Northern Dynasties period. He argued that Buddhism became widely accepted when China's traditional institutions were weakened at the time. This was due to many factors, such as foreign Xianbei ruling over the north, and China's political schism that caused warfare and other ills. Although Emperor Wen of Sui (r. 581–604) abolished the Nine Ranks in favor of a Confucian-taught bureaucracy drafted through civil service examinations, he also heavily sponsored the popular ideology of Buddhism to legitimate his rule. Hence, it was given free rein and influence to flourish and dominate Chinese culture during the Sui and Tang periods; historian Arthur F. Wright describes Confucianism in this period as being reverted to a state of \"stale archaism\". Ouyang Xiu wrote:\n\n\"This curse [Buddhism] has overspread the empire for a thousand years, and what can one man in one day do about it? The people are drunk with it, and it has entered the marrow of their bones; it is surely not to be overcome by eloquent talk. What, then, is to be done?\nIn conclusion on how to root out the 'evil' that was Buddhism, Ouyang Xiu presented a historical example of how it could be uprooted from Chinese culture:\n\nOf old, in the time of the Warring States, Yang Zhu and Mo Di were engaged in violent controversy. Mencius deplored this and devoted himself to teaching benevolence and righteousness. His exposition of benevolence and righteoussness won the day, and the teachings of Mo Di and Yang Zhu were extirpated. In Han times the myriad schools of thought all flourished together. Tung Chung-shu deplored this and revived Confucianism. Therefore the Way of Confucius shone forth, and the myriad schools expired. This is the effect of what I have called \"correcting the root cause in order to overcome the evil\".\n\nAlthough Confucianism was cast in stark contrast to the perceived alien and morally inept Buddhism by those such as Ouyang Xiu, Confucianism nonetheless borrowed ideals of Buddhism to provide for its own revival. From Mahayana Buddhism, the Bodhisattva ideal of ethical universalism with benevolent charity and relief to those in need inspired those such as Fan Zhongyan and Wang Anshi, along with the Song government. In contrast to the earlier heavily Buddhist Tang period, where wealthy and pious Buddhist families and Buddhist temples handled much of the charity and alms to the poor, the Song government took on this ideal role instead, through its various programs of welfare and charity (refer to Society section). In addition, the historian Arthur F. Wright notes this situation during the Song period, with philosophical nativism taking from Buddhism its earlier benevolent role:\n\nIt is true that Buddhist monks were given official appointments as managers of many of these enterprises, but the initiative came from Neo-Confucian officials. In a sense the Buddhist idea of compassion and many of the measures developed for its practical expression had been appropriated by the Chinese state.\nAlthough Buddhism lost its prominence in the elite circles and government sponsorships of Chinese society, this did not mean the disappeance of Buddhism from Chinese culture. Zen Buddhism continued to flourish during the Song period, as Emperor Lizong of Song had the monk Wuzhun Shifan share the Chán (Zen) doctrine with the imperial court. Much like the Eastern Roman Emperor Julian the Apostate promoting Roman paganism and Theurgy amongst the leading members of Roman society while pushing Christianity's influence into the lower classes, so too did Neo-Confucians of the 13th century succeed in driving Buddhism out of the higher echelons of Chinese society.\n\nIn terms of Buddhist metaphysics, Zhou Dunyi influenced the beliefs and teachings of Northern Song-era Confucian scholars such as Cheng Hao and Cheng Yi (who were brothers), and was a major influence for Zhu Xi, one of the leading architects of Neo-Confucianism. They emphasized moral self-cultivation over service to the ruler of the state (healing society's ills from the bottom-up, not the top-down), as opposed to statesmen like Fan Zhongyan or Su Shi, who pursued their agenda to advise the ruler to make the best decisions for the common good of all. The Cheng brothers also taught that the workings of nature and metaphysics could be taught through the principle (li) and the vital energy (qi). The principle of nature could be moral or physical, such as the principle of marriage being moral, while the principle of trees is physical. Yet for principles to exist and function normally, there would have to be substance as well as vital energy. This allowed Song intellectuals to validate the teachings of Mencius on the innate goodness of human nature, while at the same time providing an explanation for human wrongdoing. In essence, the principle underlying a human being is good and benevolent, but vital energy has the potential to go astray and be corrupted, giving rise to selfish impulses and all other negative human traits.\nThe Song Neo-Confucian philosophers, finding a certain purity in the originality of the ancient classical texts, wrote commentaries on them. The most influential of these philosophers was Zhu Xi, whose synthesis of Confucian thought and Buddhist, Taoist, and other ideas became the official imperial ideology from late Song times to the late 19th century. The basis of his teaching was influenced by the Cheng brothers, but he greatly extended their teachings, forming the core of Neo-Confucianism. This included emphasis on the Four Books: the \"Analects\", \"Mencius\", \"Doctrine of the Mean\", and the \"Great Learning\" (the latter two being chapters in the ancient Book of Rites). His viewpoint was that improvement of the world began with improvement of the mind, as outlined in the \"Great Learning\". His approach to Confucianism was shunned by his contemporaries, as his writings were forbidden to be cited by students taking the Imperial Examinations. However, Emperor Lizong of Song found his writing to be intriguing, reversing the policy against him, and making it a requirement for students to study his commentaries on the Four Books.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21662611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21662611", "title": "De Blacam &amp; Meagher", "text": "De Blacam &amp; Meagher\n\nde Blacam & Meagher is an Irish architectural firm formed in 1976. The firm is known for its use of natural materials especially wood. In the book \"Architects Today\" De Blacam & Meagher and O'Donnell & Tuomey are referred to as \"the godfathers of contemporary Irish architecture.\"\n\nAfter training in Dublin, Ireland and Pennsylvania, Shane de Blacam (born 1945) worked for Chamberlain Powell & Bon on the Barbican Centre in London and for Louis Khan in Philadelphia. John Meagher (born 1947) studied at Dublin Institute of Technology and for a year at Helsinki School of Architecture in 1971, and also worked early in his career in the United States for Venturi Scott Brown.\n\nDe Blacam & Meagher were the principal exhibitors in the Irish Pavilion at the Venice Biennale in 2010. The historian Roy Foster, particularly referring to the firm's work in Dublin wrote in the exhibition catalogue of their commission's \"masterly introduction of light, the texture of appropriate materials (brick, hardwood, pre-patinated copper) a use of space and volume at once imaginative and respectful of their surroundings.\"\n\nThe practice has won a number of awards. The Chapel of Reconciliation at the Catholic shrine at Knock, Ireland (1990) was the first Irish finalist in the Mies van der Rohe award for European architecture. The Beckett Theatre at Trinity College, Dublin won the Architectural Association of Ireland's Downes Bronze Medal in 1993. De Blacam was presented with the Gold Medal of the Royal Institute of the Architects of Ireland (RIAI) in 2003 by the President of Ireland Mary McAleese for a library and information technology extension at Cork University (opened 1996). Another project of the practice, the renovation of the Abbeyleix Library in Leinster won the RIAI Best Conservation/Restoration Project Award in 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6239184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6239184", "title": "Eisodos", "text": "Eisodos\n\nEisodos (or eisodoi) is a term used for Ancient Greek Plays in order to describe either of two passageways leading into the orchestra, between theatron and skenê (also known as the parodos).\n\nIt was used as the exit for the chorus from the orchestra. It has also been called ersodoi.\n"}
{"id": "40757019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40757019", "title": "Elenberg Fraser", "text": "Elenberg Fraser\n\nElenberg Fraser is an Australian architecture firm, based in Melbourne. It was established in 1998 by Zahava Elenberg and Callum Fraser, both RMIT University graduates. Notable projects include the interior design of restaurants such as Vue du Monde (2005) and Gingerboy (2006) and apartment buildings such as Liberty Tower (2002), Watergate Place (2005), A'Beckett Tower (2010) and Eq. Tower\n(2017), all in Melbourne. Their design for the alpine hotels Huski (2005) and St Falls (2009) both at Falls Creek, Victoria received awards for their highly sculptural qualities. In 2009 Elenberg Fraser also completed the adaptive reuse of No 2 Goods Shed in Docklands, a heritage-listed building transformed into office and hospitality space.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58048237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58048237", "title": "Feminist poetry", "text": "Feminist poetry\n\nFeminist poetry is inspired by, promotes, or elaborates on feminist principles and ideas. It might be written with the conscious aim of expressing feminist principles, although sometimes it is identified as feminist by critics in a later era. Some writers are thought to express feminist ideas even if the writer was not an active member of the political movement during their era. Many feminist movements, however, have embraced poetry as a vehicle for communicating with public audiences through anthologies, poetry collections, and public readings.\n\nFormally, feminist poetry often seeks to challenge assumptions about language and meaning. It usually foregrounds women's experiences as valid and worthy of attention, and it also highlights the lived experiences of minorities and other less privileged subjects. Sometimes feminist poems seek to embody specific women's experiences, and they are often intersectional registering specific forms of oppression depending on identities related to race, sexuality, gender presentation, disability, or immigration status. This has led to feminist writing journals like So To Speak providing a statement of intention to publish the work of women and nonbinary people in particular.\n\nKim Whitehead states that feminist poetry has \"no identifiable birth date,\" but there are a few key figures identified as early proponents of feminist ideas, and who convey their politics through poetry. The title of first feminist poet is often given to Sappho, at least in part because she seems to write about female homosexuality in Ancient Greece, a culture and time when lesbian sexuality was usually ignored or erased.\n\nThe beginning of works categorised as literature in India began with the Sanskrit term \"kāvya\", a discourse separate from science or from the purely oral, and specific literary style that included works thought to contain a kind of soulfulness. In this early period, men were often posed as poets, and women as a kind of muse, as in the tenth century explanation for the origins of Indian literary culture: Poem Man's wife (\"Poetics\") chases him across South Asia creating varying kinds of literature across the region. Poetry was certainly an important part of political cultural life in the Sanskrit cosmopolis, and some women contributed; for example the poet Rajasekhara tells of women in different regions who entertain with songs.\n\nThe early civilisation of Khmer country in modern-day Cambodia cultivated a literature in Sanskrit, and diverged from its neighbours in creating a strain of poetry from the fifth century to the thirteenth century in which women were a source of praise and admiration. Take for example the Mebon Inscription of Rājendravarman, which features eulogies for specific women of note, and which is, according to Sheldon I. Pollock, \"without obvious parallel in South Asia,\" and may be related to \"specific kinship structures in the region.\"\n\nEarly anglophone women poets in India blended native traditions and literary models from Europe. Amongst these early feminists, the Dutt Sisters - Toru Dutt (1856-1877) and Aru Dutt (1854-1874) stand out, and are sometimes compared to the Brontë Sisters in England. The Dutt sisters came from a family of poets, including their father Govind Chandra Dutt, and their access to education was unprecedented. The mother of the family Kshetramoni Mitter Dutt along with all three children - Toru, Aru, and their brother Abju Dutt, had received an education in English, and to some extent, in the Bengali language. The family had a reformist bent, and some members had converted to Christianity. Both sisters visited England in the 1870s, and attended the higher lectures for women at Cambridge University. Toru Dutt's poetry in particular has been labelled extraordinary, because her writing \"created a new idiom in Indian English verse.\"\n\nSpanning the turn from the nineteenth to twentieth century, Sarojini Naidu (1879–1949) represents a figure for whom politics and poetry are intertwined. Like the Dutt Sisters, Naidu was allowed access to all the educational resources she desired, and she passed the Madras University matriculation examination at age 12. She came from a large and free-thinking family. Her father, Aghorenath Chattopadhyay, was a well-regarded doctor, known for his educational reforms, and her mother, Barada Sundari Devi, was educated at a Brahmo school. Naidu had seven siblings all of whom made contribution to Indian life, for example her brother Virendranath Chattopadhyay was an Indian revolutionary. Naidu studied at Girton College, Cambridge, which brough her into contact with writers of the day, including Arthur Symons, and W.B. Yeats. Ultimately, Naidu's unconventional upbringing and education were catalysts for her intellectual powers, since as she writes in her roman-de-clef 'Sulani,' \"\"Unlike the girls of her own nation, she had been brought up in an atmosphere of large un-convention and culture and absolute freedom of thought and action.\" After her marriage to Govindarajulu Naidu - controversial because of his age and class - Naidu began publishing poetry to international acclaim, and in parallel with this literary art, she maintained her nationalist efforts, eventually becoming the first Indian woman to serve as president of the Indian National Congress.\n\nAnthologies were an important part of foregrounding women's writing in volumes like Eunice De Souza's \"Nine Indian Women Poets\" (1997).\n\nThe Feminist Legacy of Sor Juana Inés de la Cruz\n\nDuring the Latin American colonial period, Sor Juana Inés de la Cruz (est 1651-1695) was a poet, dramatist, and nun. Exceptionally talented and intelligent, Sor Juana Inés de la Cruz chose to spend most of her life in the Convent of the Order of St. Jérôme, and her response to a critical Bishop, \"Respuesta a Sor Filotea,\" is hailed as one of the first feminist manifestos. Not only did Sor Juana have to deal with the criticisms of men of her era, but she also faced the Spanish perception of literature from the colonies as second-rate. Sor Juana's poems challenge the assumptions of men about women, for example in 'You Foolish Men.'\n\nWhat kind of mind is odder\n\nthan his who mists\n\na mirror and then complains\n\nthat it's not clear.The fact that she chooses to avoid a heteronormative life with marriage and children is often held up as a feminist choice, and she represents the possibility to be a woman who 'pursues knowledge and procreates only through art and not through a genetic legacy.'\n\nAnthologies of women's writing in the 1980s foregrounded the importance of women poets in the Caribbean, for example in M.J. Fenwick's \"Sisters of Caliban\" (1996) described as \"a gendered and racialized position of resistance\".\n\nThough they lived in an era before an organised feminist movement, certain American poets have been lauded by feminist literary criticism as early examples of feminist writers. Feminist poetry in the United States is often thought of as beginning with Anne Bradstreet (1612-1672), the first poet of the New World. There were also, however, native poetic traditions before colonialism, which continue to the present day, and represent an important strand of American poetry. Native traditional verse has included \"lyrics, chants, anecdotes, incantations, riddles, proverbs, and legends.\" While it is difficult to ascertain from these oral traditions whether the authors of early texts were male or female, precolonial native poetry certainly addresses issues relevant to women in a sensitive and positive way, for example the Seminole poem, 'Song for Bringing a Child Into the World.' In fact, native poetry is a separate but relevant tradition in the United States; as poet Joy Harjo comments, \"The literature of the aboriginal people of North America defines America. It is not exotic.\" In the context of Canada, Anne Marie Dalton argues that at least some indigenous communities in North America (though not all) have lived by practicing ecofeminism with regard to women's roles, and the sustainability of the land.\n\nWhen colonialism did arrive, Anne Bradstreet was one of the first poets to win acclaim, and many of her poems are thought to have feminist themes. The mother of eight children, Bradstreet sometimes found herself in conflict with her domestic circumstances and her role as a Puritan woman. Feminist literary criticism defined Bradstreet in retrospect as a \"protofeminist,\" because of her \"gender awareness,\" and her treatment of domestic concerns of importance in women's lives. Poet Alicia Ostriker describes Bradstreet's style as \"a combination of rebellion and submission,\" a pattern that Ostriker also sees in poets to come like Phyllis Wheatley and Emily Dickinson.\n\nPhyllis Wheatley (1753-1784) was brought to the United States from Africa as a slave, and sold to the Wheatley family of Boston in 1771. A prodigy as a child, Wheatley was the first black person to publish a book of poems in the American colony, and though her poems are sometimes thought of as expressing \"meek submission,\" she is also what Camille Dungy describes as \"a foremother,\" and a role model for black women poets as \"part of the fabric\" of American poetry. Involved in the abolitionist movement, Wheatley became \"a spokeswoman for the cause of American independence and the abolition of slavery.\"\n\nNineteenth century poet Emily Dickinson (1830-1886) is often thought of as feminist, though she never wrote for public audiences. Not necessarily recognized in her own lifetime, Dickinson offers powerful female speakers. Engaging with male writers like Ralph Waldo Emerson or William Wordsworth, her work is praised for developing \"others ways of representing the position of a female speaking subject\" in particular romantic and psychological dynamics. See for example the declaration of desire and longing in 'Wild nights - Wild nights!.' In the 1970s, feminist literary criticism articulated Dickinson's feminism through groundbreaking studies by Margaret Homans, Sandra Gilbert and Susan Gubar, and Suzanne Juhasz. Critics point in particular to Dickinson's expression of anger at women's confinement, to her re-gendering of external and internal realities, to her use of feminist motifs, and to her articulation of her particular position in Puritan, patriarchal culture. Dickinson also proves that confinement to domestic life does not dictate an inability to create great poetry. As the poet Adrienne Rich writes, \"Probably no poet ever lived so much and so purposefully in one house; even, in one room.\"\n\nFeminist poets of the early twentieth century harnessed the new opportunities and rights which came as a result of coeducational resources now afforded to women. Cristianne Miller goes so far as to say that 'In no period before and rarely since have women poets had greater success and influence than in the first half of the twentieth century in the United States.'\n\nLiving through the turn of the century was Alice Moore Dunbar-Nelson(1875-1935), a poet often thought of in relation to her marriage to Paul Dunbar. Dunbar-Nelson, however, is an accomplished writer in her own right, praised by poet Camille Dungy for breaking out of writing only about \"black women's things,\" instead addressing \"the theater and war of life.\" Born in New Orleans, Dubar-Nelson's family had a heritage of African American, Anglo, Native American, and Creole roots. Camille Dungy suggests that bringing black women writers like Dunbar-Nelson into the feminist canon alongside Bradstreet and Dickinson is of great importance in rediscovering literary foremothers for black women writers.\n\nThe early twentieth century was also a significant moment for feminism, because it saw the rise of the suffragist movement, and poets responded to the political moment by writing poems regarding the debate as to whether or not women should have the right to vote. In her collection \"Suffrage Songs and Verses,\" Charlotte Perkins Gilman criticises wealthy women, who because they live a life of ease, deny other women their rights. Alice Duer Miller (1874-1942) wrote poems mocking anti-suffragist advocates, which were published in the New York Tribune, a popular news outlet of the era.\n\nWhile some poets have been embraced by the feminist canon, others are seen as awkward additions in spite of their success, for example Gertrude Stein (1874-1946) is often defined more as a poet involved in modernist experimentation than feminist discourse. Some of modernism's tenets seem incompatible with some kinds of feminism, like the repression of emotion, and avoidance of domesticity. Nevertheless, second wave feminists found modernist women poets like H.D. (1886-1961) to be a powerful example, unfairly overlooked by male critics.\n\nBy the time of the 1940s, magazines were being set up which, though perhaps not obviously feminist, certainly in their practices were very different to male-run publications: take for example Contemporary Verse (1941–52) published in Canada by a group of women writers, including Dorothy Livesay, P.K. Page, and Anne Marriott.\n\nHistorian Ruth Rosen describes the mainstream poetry world before 1960 as \"an all boy's club,\" adding that poetry was not \"women's place,\" and explains that in order to get a poetry book published, writers would have to overcome their gender and race. The interest of American feminist poets in the rights of minorities have often put them in conflict with American institutions like the American Academy of Poets. One of the strategies of feminist poets is to demonstrate \"their opposition to a dominant poetry culture that does not recognize the primacy of gender and other oppressions\".\n\n1960s feminist poetry provided a useful space for second wave American feminist politics. The poets, however, were not necessarily unified in their themes or formal techniques, but had links to specific movements and trends, such as the New York Poets, the Black Mountain poets, the San Francisco Renaissance, or the Beat Poets. Denise Levertov (1923-1997), for example, refined and built upon poetics from the Black Mountain School.\n\nWomen like Sylvia Plath (1932-1963) and Anne Sexton (1928-1974) provided a feminist version of the Confessional Poets' poetics, which worked alongside feminist texts of the day, like Betty Friedan's \"The Feminine Mystique\", to \"address taboo subjects and social limitations that plagued American women\" (although Plath died before \"The Feminine Mystique\" was published) Lucille Clifton (1936-2010) also borrowed from Confessional poetics, a strategy that was key according to Adrienne Rich for avoiding being trapped between \"misogynist black male critics and white feminists still struggling to unearth a white woman's tradition.\" Confessionalism lent to feminist poetry the possibility of agency for the female speaker, and the refusal to present well-behaved women, though it was troubling that the Confessional women poets who committed suicide tended to be foregrounded and promoted in poetry circles.\n\nMuriel Rukeyser (1913-1980) was a generation older than Plath and Sexton, and rejected the suicidal poetics of the Confessional writers. Rukeyser also wrote frankly about the body and sexuality, inspiring later poets like Sharon Olds. In addition, Rukeyser's leftist politics and militant writing style proved to be a model for poet Adrienne Rich. Both poets also contributed to the anti-Vietnam War movement: for example Rukeyser and Rich took part in readings as part of the event series, the Week of the Angry Arts Against the War in Vietnam.\n\nAdrienne Rich (1929-2012) also became a key feminist poet, praised by Alicia Ostriker for bringing \"intellect\" to poetry, \"something that women were not supposed to have,\" as well as \"a leftward leaning sensibility in which coming out as lesbian was just one part.\" Rich's 'Diving into the Wreck' is an important feminist poem, as it describes moving down as an act of triumph, where the wreck might be history, literature, or human life, and the poem itself is a kind of \"battlecry.\" Famously, when Rich received the National Book Award for her collection, \"Diving into the Wreck,\" she accepted it on behalf of all the female nominees, including Audre Lorde and Alice Walker:We, Audre Lorde, Adrienne Rich, and Alice Walker, together accept this award in the name of all the women whose voices have gone and still go unheard in a patriarchal world, and in the name of those who, like us, have been tolerated as token women in this culture, often at great cost and in great pain. We believe that we can enrich ourselves more in supporting and giving to each other than by competing against each other; and that poetry— if it is poetry— exists in a realm beyond ranking and comparison. We symbolically join together here in refusing the terms of patriarchal competition and declaring that we will share this prize among us, to be used as best we can for women.Audre Lorde (1934-1992) was a feminist poet whose poetry and prose writings have had a great impact on feminist thinking to the present day. Sometimes thought of as a writer who developed a \"black lesbian eroticism,\" Lorde's poetry also shows a deep ethical and moral commitment, which seeks to challenge racism, sexism, and homophobia. Many of Lorde's poems have a great deal in common with the modern-day campaign #blacklivesmatter, as they pose questions about institutionalised racism in American public services like the price force, for example in her poem 'Power':A policeman who shot down a ten year old in Queens\n\nstood over the boy with his cop shoes in childish blood\n\nand a voice said \"Die you little motherfucker\" and\n\nthere are tapes to prove it. At his trial\n\nthis policeman said in his own defense\n\n\"I didn't notice the size nor nothing else\n\nonly the color\". And\n\nthere are tapes to prove that, too.Lorde's work has also proved to be an inspiration to feminists working on the subject of feminist killjoys, and the trope of the angry black woman, often used as an excuse to belittle or reduce the impact of just concerns about racism. Lorde's poems often draw attention to the universalising tendencies of some white feminisms, so in a poem about a mythical woman, 'A Woman Speaks,' only at the end does Lorde draw attention to the problematic universal, white woman, adding\n\nI am\n\nwoman\n\nand not white.Lorde went on to be an effective and challenging teacher of other women poets, such as Donna Masini.\n\nIn the 1970s and 80s, feminist poetry evolved alongside the feminist movement, becoming a useful tool for activist groups organised around radical feminism, socialist feminism, and lesbian feminism. Poetry readings became spaces for feminists to come together in cities and in rural communities, and talk about sexuality, women's roles, and the possibilities beyond heteronormative life. Figures like Judy Grahn were figureheads for the women's movement, providing electrifying readings that enlivened and inspired audiences. Often the poems were political, and sometimes the writers tried to use language that \"ordinary women\" could read and understand.\n\nCountering tokenism was also an important aspect of the feminist poetry project. Carolyn Forché describes the \"blue velvet chair\" effect, inspired by group portraits of canonical poets, in which one - but only one - woman writer was allowed to join the men, often sat in a Victorian blue velvet chair.\n\nAs poetry took on a new significance for the feminist movement, so a number of new poetry anthologies were published which emphasised women's voices and experiences. Anthologies played an important role generally in opening up the political consciousness of poetry, an important example being Raymond Souster's volume, \"New Wave Canada: The Explosion in Canadian Poetry\" (1966).Louis Dudek and Michael Gnarowski describe the anthology's embracing of counterculture, including new ideas about sexuality and the role of women.\n\nOther anthologies began to focus specifically on women's writing, such as:\n\n\nOther anthologies created new canons of women's writing from the past, such as \"Black sister: poetry by black American women, 1746-1980\" (1981) edited by Erlene Stetson; or \"Writing Red: An Anthology of American Women Writers, 1930-1940\" (1987) edited by Paula Rabinowitz and Charlotte Nekola. Such anthologies \"established solid ground for the communication and circulation of feminist ideas\" in the American and Canadian Academies.\n\nConferences also provided important spaces for feminists to share and discuss ideas about the possibilities of poetry: for example a key moment for Canadian feminist poetry was the \"Women and words / Les femmes et les motes\" conference in 1983. The Vancouver convention brought together women writers, publishers, and booksellers to discuss the issues of the Canadian literary world, including gender inequity.\n\nOne change in the writing of women poets after the 1960s and 1970s was the possibility of writing about women's lives and experiences. To give authority to women's voices, writers like Honor Moore and Judy Graun held workshops specifically for women in order to overcome women's inner critics exacerbated by sexism. These networks of mentorship sprang up in feminist communities, and in universities.\n\nThe work at this time was focussing on \"images of women,\" and this often meant broadening representations. This methodology eventually began to be criticised, however, because it failed to recognise the complications of violence embedded in the very structure of language. Writers influenced by the avant-garde and by L=A=N=G=U=A=G=E poetry sought to challenge the idea of language's neutrality. US feminist language poets like Lynn Hejinian or Susan Howe, or Canadian writers like Daphne Marlatt looked back to the legacy of experimentalist modernists like Gertrude Stein, or Mina Loy, and also to diverse sources of inspiration like Denise Levertov, Marguerite Duras, Virginia Woolf, Nicole Brossard, Phyllis Webb, Louky Bersianik, and Julia Kristeva. They also reframed the language poetics from male mentors like Charles Olson, Robert Creeley, Gary Snyder, or Allen Ginsberg.\n\nPoets also sought to intervene in spheres traditionally dominated by men. Take for example Eileen Myles' intervention into politics in her 1992 \"Write-in Campaign for President.\"\n\nBy the time of the 1990s, and the rise of intersectionality as a key feminist term, many feminist poets resisted the term \"woman poet,\" because it suggested \"too confining a collective identity.\" They also sought to undermine \"the assumption that has sometimes structured feminist political organizing and even feminist literary publishing and criticism—that gender can be separated from race, ethnicity, class, and sexuality, and that white middleclass women first and foremost have the tools and the knowhow for the enterprise of analyzing gendered experience and literary production.\"\n\nPresent day feminist poetry in North America holds space for a great variety of poets tackling identity, sexuality, and gender issues. Key writings in the recent past include Claudia Rankine's careful skewering of race related microaggressions in \"Citizen,\" Dorothea Laskey's \"ferocious confession\" in Rome for example, and Bhanu Kapil's challenge the violent inherent in structures of language and institutions.\n\nEighteenth century advocate for women's rights Mary Wollstonecraft (1797-1851), put great emphasis on the power of the poetic imagination as a liberator tool, and many nineteenth century British women writers were inspired by Wollstonecraft to use poetry to enter public debates about gender roles, poverty, and slavery. The verse-novel \"Aurora Leigh\" (1856) by Elizabeth Barrett Browning (1806-1861) is one such feminist work, which challenged a prevailing attitude that women's lives were incompatible with writing poetry. \"Aurora Leigh\" had a very public impact, for example influencing the views of American social reformer Susan B. Anthony regarding the traditional roles of women, especially in relation to the tension between marriage and women's individuality.\n\nOften cited as an early feminist poet, Amy Levy (1861-1889) is described by writer Elaine Feinstein as the first modern Jewish woman poet. At the age of 13, Levy published her first poem in the feminist journal, the \"Pelican\", and she grew to maturity surrounded by writers and social reformers on the London scene of the era, such as Eleanor Marx and Olive Schreiber. Though nothing is known for sure about Levy's sexual relationships, she is often thought of as a lesbian poet, though some critics have challenged affixing a sexual category to Levy. Levy's poems, however, are an early example of poetry that challenges heteronormative roles.\n\nLevy is often thought of as prefiguring or representing an early version of the New Woman, a stereotypical image of an independent woman who often worked rather than relying on her menfolk, and was associated with gender bending and deviance. Historically, the end of the nineteenth and beginning of the twentieth century was an era of surplus women, who had to work to survive: by 1911, 77 per cent of women workers in the UK were single. Alongside the struggle of suffragettes campaigning for votes for women, many British feminist poets sought to emulate the example of Victorian women writers, often expressing their radical political beliefs through poetry. Often the writers were not professional poets, but wrote out of necessity, including satirical portraits of politicians, or writings from prison, as in \"Holloway Jingles\", a collection of writing from imprisoned women collated by the Glasgow Branch of the Women's Social and Political Union.\n\nIn the inter-war years, British women poets associated with modernism began to find themselves public figures, though their feminist ideas sometimes came into conflict with the literary establishment which remained a kind of \"exclusive male club.\" Often these writers are difficult to categorize in relation to literary groups traditionally used, like the avant-garde or modernists. This was also a period when American women poets living in Britain made an important contribution to the writing of the day: writers like H.D., Mina Loy, and Amy Lowell all combined radical poetic content with experimentation of form, allowing them to explore feminist polemic and non-heteronormative sexualities in innovative new modes. Other British feminist poets of the time like Anna Wickham, Charlotte Mew, and Sylvia Townsend Warner, receive less critical attention, but also sought to challenge and reevaluate tropes of femininity.\n\nDuring the 1960s, the Women's Liberation Movement in the UK had a great influence on the literary world. Feminist publishers, Virago (founded in 1973), Onlywomen (1974), The Women's Press (1978), and Sheba (1980), were established, alongside magazines like Spare Rib. Like their counterparts in the US, British feminist editors in the 1970s and 80s created landmark anthologies of women's poetry, which foregrounded the variety and strength of women's writing. These included Lilian Mohin's \"One Foot on the Mountain\" (1979), Jeni Couzyn's \"The Bloodaxe Book of Contemporary Women Poets\" (1985), Moira Ferguson's \"First Feminists: British Women Writers 1578-1799\" (1985), Kate Armstrong's \"Fresh Oceans\" (1989), Jude Brigley's \"Exchanges\" (1990), and Catherine Kerrigan's \"An Anthology of Scottish Women Poets\" (1991).\n\nReferences\n"}
{"id": "35949687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35949687", "title": "Florida Architecture, 100 Years, 100 Places", "text": "Florida Architecture, 100 Years, 100 Places\n\nBuildings listed on the American Institute of Architects' Florida Chapter list of \"Florida Architecture: 100 Years. 100 Places\"\n\n"}
{"id": "13847616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13847616", "title": "Fugitive Projects", "text": "Fugitive Projects\n\nFugitive Projects is a non-profit curatorial arts organization, arts collective, and beehive operating since 1999 out of Nashville, Tennessee.\n\nFrom 1999- 2005 Fugitive Projects called itself the Fugitive Art Center bringing national and international artists to Nashville to exhibit in their warehouse gallery space. In both configurations they served as an artist advocacy, curatorial resource and databank. Since restructuring they have focused more on ephemeral exhibitions and involvement with exhibitions traveling to the IMAFY in Egypt; Banff, Canada for The Interactive Screen Conference; Ireland's Dublin Electronic Arts Festival; Basel, Switzerland and to venues across the U.S. Artists with video works in this touring program included Hernan Bas, Charles De Meaux, e*rock, Haus am Gern, Jenna Gribbon, Muda Matthis / Sus Zwick, Casey Reas, Scott Reeder, Magda Tothova, Moliu Zhang, Eliane Rutishauser, Melody Owen, Charles Huntley Nelson, Kristin Lucas, Matt Freedman, Bert Rodriguez, Dominic DeJoseph, Nicolas Lobo, Karina Nimmerfall, Jeff Luckey, and Joseph Burwell among others.\n\nDavid Maddox in the \"Nashville Scene\" said in 2004 \"the Fugitive (Art Center) has become an essential part of Nashville's art scene...The Fugitive can point to a steady series of good shows, but that's only part of the group's significance to Nashville. Its 12-person board provides a cross-section of the city's art scene.\"\n\nSusan Knowles, in Art Papers, refers to The Fugitive Art Center as \"unbridled energy\", \"a lightning rod for artists\" and \"the edge of visual dialogue in Nashville- and Tennessee.\"\n\nDavid Maddox. \"Art Now: Contemporary art emerges from the remnants of Nashville's industrial past at the Fugitive Art Center\", \"The Nashville Scene\", July 29, 2004.\n\nSusan W. Knowles. \"Nashville: Critique of Fugitives at Belmont University\", \"Art Papers\", July/August 2005\n\n"}
{"id": "37434516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37434516", "title": "Greetingman", "text": "Greetingman\n\nGreetingman () is a modern sculpture project in South Korea.\n\nIts main artist is Yoo Young-ho (South Korean sculptor). The concept provides a man, 6 m high, bowing in a typically Asian greeting gesture. The blue color means lack of prejudice.\n\nIn October 2012, a statue was unveiled in the neighbourhood of Buceo, Montevideo, Uruguay, as part of a planned world series in multiple locations.\n\nAnother statue was unveiled in October 2013 in South Korea, near the Korean Demilitarized Zone, in Haean, Yanggu County, Gangwon.\n\nA third statue was unveiled in January 2016 in Panama City, Panama, the second to be unveiled in Latin America.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2679476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2679476", "title": "Hinman collator", "text": "Hinman collator\n\nThe Hinman collator, an early optical collator, was an opto-mechanical device for comparing pairs of documents for differences in the text. Documents that appeared similar were said to “collate”. The collator resulted in rapid advances in the study of literary works.\n\nInvented by Charlton Hinman in the late 1940s, the device used lights and mirrors to superimpose images of the two documents so that differences in text alignment or wording stood out. This resulted in huge improvements in speed and efficiency compared to the traditional cross-referencing of texts by eye.\n\nThe idea built on earlier work such as Carl Pulfrich's blink comparator used to help identify the former planet Pluto, and Hinman's work analysing aerial photographs during World War II.\n\nHinman used his device to compare the many slightly different impressions of the First Folio of William Shakespeare's works. The printing and bookbinding processes used in the time of Shakespeare often resulted in variations in the pages bound into the final books, and the collator enabled Hinman to describe the exact order in which the Folios had been composited and printed. He used the collator to compare 55 different copies of the First Folio held by the Folger Shakespeare Library, and subsequently wrote about his findings in \"Printing and Proof-reading of the First Folio of Shakespeare\" in 1963.\n\nIn the wake of Hinman's success, the device was purchased by a number of universities, libraries and other institutions (allegedly including the CIA). As more compact types of collator were developed in the 1960s, the last Hinman was built in 1978. In his 2002 survey of mechanical collators, Steven Escar Smith estimates from scattered records that as many as 59 Hinman Collators were produced, 41 of these surviving at the time of his survey's publication. \n\nThe device was developed further by Randall McLeod.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25443870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25443870", "title": "Hiromi Itō", "text": "Hiromi Itō\n\nBorn in 1955 in Tokyo, Itō became well known in the 1980s for a series of dramatic collections of poetry that described sexuality, pregnancy, and feminine erotic desire in dramatically direct language. From her earliest work, Itō embarked on a lifelong battle against the stylized and artful language common in 20th-century Japanese poetry. Much of her poetry is narrated in extended passages of relatively colloquial text. Her poems so skillfully represent spoken language that they often give the illusion of being records of spoken speech. Not coincidentally, commentators have often described Itō as a \"shamaness\" for her ability to channel voices onto the page.\n\nIn 1982, Itō's book ,'appeared in the series \"The Present State of Women's Poetry,\" which was published by the Japanese publisher Shichōsha and also featured a number of rising young female poets, including Toshiko Hirata, Yōko Isaka, and Kōko Shiraishi. In the mid-1980s, Itō's writing gravitated to issues of the feminine body, sexuality, and motherhood, making her the most prominent voice of what came to be known as the \"women's poetry boom.\" The two collections , published in 1985, and , published in 1987, describe her feelings after giving birth to her first daughter, Kanoko Nishi. These poems probe the meaning of the mother-child relationship and the demands that motherhood places on the mother's identity and sexuality. For instance, in the often anthologized poem , she describes the feelings of a young mother experiencing postpartum depression and anger at her newborn, even though the world is congratulating her on becoming a mother. Her eagerness to explore women's issues has led some to think of her as a feminist writer, although this is a term that Itō has not always embraced in building her public persona.\n\nThroughout her career, however, Itō has embraced the metaphor of the poet as a shamaness. In 1991, she collaborated with the prominent feminist scholar Chizuko Ueno from Tokyo University on a collection of essays and poetry called , which the two likened to the collaboration between an Okinawan shamaness and the figure who makes sense of her utterances for the outside world. A few years later in 1993, Itō explicitly played out the metaphor of poet as shamaness in her long narrative poem , in which she takes a story recorded from a shamaness in Tsugaru in the early 20th century and refashions it into a dramatic new myth of healing from sexual abuse and self-discovery.\n\nSince at least the 1980s, Itō had been fascinated with Native American poetry, which she first read in Japanese translations. In 1990, she met the American poet Jerome Rothenberg when he visited Japan. Rothenberg had been a major force in re-examining Native American poetry in the movement known as \"ethnopoetics,\" and he encouraged Itō to come to America. She had recently separated from her husband, the literature scholar Masahiko Nishi, and at Rothenberg's invitation, she started making regular, extended trips to America with her children, before eventually settling in 1997 in Encinitas, California with her new partner, the British artist Harold Cohen.\n\nThe change of setting led to several significant changes in her writing, in terms of both genre and subject matter. She began writing novellas, both because she was tired of poetry and because she felt prose was better suited to exploring her new experiences as an immigrant. Several of her novellas from this time describe the difficulties of immigration and the experience of being a transplant in a new environment.\n\nItō returned to poetry, publishing several long, fantastic narrative works that blur the lines between prose and poetry. These include , published in 2005, the narrative , published in 2007, and , published in 2007. In these works, Itō writes about the experiences of modern people, often migrants or transnationals, but does so in a way that has an almost mythological grandeur and frequently veers into the surreal.\n\nOne of Itō's bestsellers was her book of essays , published in 2010. This book consists of a series of personal essays about her involvement with the Buddhist classic, the Heart Sutra, and other Buddhist texts. While relating the texts to her own life, she describes her understanding of the text and provides her own modern Japanese translation from the classical Chinese. Itō's interest in Buddhism and Buddhist texts in particular had been visible earlier in her career, for instance, in the 1993 poem , which incorporates elements of folk Buddhist narrative, and the 2004 book , which retells several of the stories in the Heian-period Buddhist classic Nihon Ryōiki by the monk Kyōkai. In 2012, Itō published , a book of personal essays and contemporary Japanese translations of correspondence between the Japanese Buddhist monk Shinran and his mother.\n\nA common theme in these books, especially \"The Heart Sutra Explained\", \"Reading the \"Lamentations of Divergences\" Falteringly Out Loud\", and the 2014 book about the slow decline and death of Itō's father, is the question of how life changes as one grows older and faces death. (This is a major issue in Japan due to the demographic imbalances brought about Japan's declining birth rate and rise in numbers of senior citizens). As a means to understand and cope with this process, Itō frequently turns to Buddhist texts for inspiration.\n\nIn addition to these works of poetry and prose, Itō has published numerous books of essays, manga criticism, and translations of American literature for young Japanese readers. Among the books she has translated into Japanese are \"The Cat in the Hat\" and \"Oh, the Places You'll Go!\" by Dr. Seuss, as well as the two books \"Out of the Dust\" and \"Witness\" by Karen Hesse. In addition to her modern Japanese translations of the Buddhist texts mentioned above, she has also written a modern Japanese translation of a short story by Ichiyō Higuchi.\n\nItō divides her time between her home in Encinitas, California and Kumamoto in southern Japan. In the latter, she has been the organizing force between a group of local writers and artists known as the . Itō's work is featured prominently in the Kumamoto Modern Literature Museum.\n\n\n\nTranslations into English\n\nTranslations into German\nTranslations in Anthologies\nSecondary Sources\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3428255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3428255", "title": "Homeric Question", "text": "Homeric Question\n\nThe Homeric Question concerns the doubts and consequent debate over the identity of Homer, the authorship of the \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\", and their historicity (especially concerning the \"Iliad\"). The subject has its roots in classical antiquity and the scholarship of the Hellenistic period, but has flourished among Homeric scholars of the 19th and 20th centuries.\n\nThe main subtopics of the Homeric Question are:\n\n\nTo these questions the possibilities of modern textual criticism and archaeological answers have added a few more:\n\n\nFollowing the seminal work of Milman Parry, most classicists agree that, whether or not there was ever such a composer as Homer, the poems attributed to him are to some degree dependent on oral tradition, a generations-old technique that was the collective inheritance of many singer-poets (or , \"aōidoi\"). An analysis of the structure and vocabulary of the \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\" shows that the poems contain many regular and repeated phrases; indeed, even entire verses are repeated. Thus according to the theory, the \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\" may have been products of oral-formulaic composition, composed on the spot by the poet using a collection of memorized traditional verses and phases. Milman Parry and Albert Lord have pointed out that such elaborate oral tradition, foreign to today's literate cultures, is typical of epic poetry in an exclusively oral culture. The crucial words here are \"oral\" and \"traditional\". Parry starts with the former: the repetitive chunks of language, he says, were inherited by the singer-poet from his predecessors, and were useful to him in composition. Parry calls these chunks of repetitive language \"formulas\".\n\nMany scholars agree that the \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\" underwent a process of standardization and refinement out of older material, beginning in the 8th century BC. This process, often referred to as the \"million little pieces\" design, seems to acknowledge the spirit of oral tradition. As Albert Lord notes in his book \"The Singer of Tales\", poets within an oral tradition, as was Homer, tend to create and modify their tales as they perform them. Although this suggests that Homer may simply have \"borrowed\" from other bards, he almost certainly made the piece his own when he performed it.\n\nThe 1960 publication of Lord's book, which focused on the problems and questions that arise in conjunction with applying oral-formulaic theory to problematic texts such as the \"Iliad\", the \"Odyssey\" and even \"Beowulf\" influenced nearly all subsequent work on Homer and oral-formulaic composition. In response to his landmark effort, Geoffrey Kirk published a book entitled \"The Songs of Homer\", in which he questions Lord's extension of the oral-formulaic nature of Serbian epic poetry in Bosnia and Herzegovina (the area from which the theory was first developed) to Homeric epic. He holds that Homeric poems differ from those traditions in their \"metrical strictness\", \"formular system[s]\" and creativity. Kirk argued that Homeric poems were recited under a system that gave the reciter much more freedom to choose words and passages to achieve the same end than the Serbian poet, who was merely \"reproductive\".\n\nShortly afterwards, Eric A. Havelock's 1963 book \"Preface to Plato\" revolutionized how scholars looked at Homeric epic by arguing not only that it was the product of an oral tradition but that the oral-formulas contained therein served as a way for ancient Greeks to preserve cultural knowledge across many different generations. In his 1966 work \"Have we Homer's \"Iliad\"?\", Adam Parry theorized the existence of the most fully developed oral poet up to his time, a person who could (at his discretion) creatively and intellectually form nuanced characters in the context of the accepted, traditional story; in fact, Parry altogether discounted the Serbian tradition to an \"unfortunate\" extent, choosing to elevate the Greek model of oral-tradition above all others. Lord reacted to Kirk and Parry's respective contentions with \"Homer as Oral Poet\", published in 1968, which reaffirmed his belief in the relevance of Serbian epic poetry and its similarities to Homer, and downplayed the intellectual and literary role of the reciters of Homeric epic.\n\nIn further support of the theory that Homer is really the name of a series of oral-formulas, or equivalent to \"the Bard\" as applied to Shakespeare, the Greek name \"Homēros\" is etymologically noteworthy. It is identical to the Greek word for \"hostage\". It has been hypothesized that his name was back-extracted from the name of a society of poets called the Homeridae, which literally means \"sons of hostages\", i.e., descendants of prisoners of war. As these men were not sent to war because their loyalty on the battlefield was suspect, they would not be killed in conflicts, so they were entrusted with remembering the area's stock of epic poetry, to remember past events, from the time before literacy came to the area.\n\nIn a similar vein, the word \"Homer\" may simply be a carryover from the Mediterranean seafarers' vocabulary adoption of the Semitic word base ’MR, which means \"say\" or \"tell\". \"Homer\" may simply be the Mediterranean version of \"saga\". It has also been suggested by Pseudo-Plutarch that the name comes from a word meaning \"to follow\" and another meaning \"blind\". Other sources connect Homer's name with Smyrna for several etymological reasons.\n\nExactly when these poems would have taken on a fixed written form is subject to debate. The traditional solution is the \"transcription hypothesis\", wherein a non-literate singer dictates the poem to a literate scribe in the 6th century BC or earlier. Sources from antiquity are unanimous in declaring that Peisistratus, the tyrant of Athens, first committed the poems of Homer to writing and placed them in the order in which we now read them. More radical Homerists, such as Gregory Nagy, contend that a canonical text of the Homeric poems did not exist until established by Alexandrian editors in the Hellenistic period (3rd to 1st century BC).\n\nThe modern debate began with the \"Prolegomena\" of Friedrich August Wolf (1795). According to Wolf, the date of writing is among the first questions in the textual criticism of Homer. Having satisfied himself that writing was unknown to Homer, Wolf considers the real mode of transmission, which he purports to find in the Rhapsodists, of whom the Homeridae were an hereditary school. Wolf reached the conclusion that the \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\" could not have been composed in the form in which we know them without the aid of writing. They must therefore have been, as Bentley has said, a sequel of songs and rhapsodies, loose songs not collected together in the form of an epic poem until about 500 years after their original composition. This conclusion Wolf supports by the character attributed to the Cyclic poems (whose want of unity showed that the structure of the \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\" must be the work of a later time), by one or two indications of imperfect connection, and by the doubts of ancient critics as to the authenticity of certain parts.\n\nThis view is extended by the complicating factor of the period of time now referred to as the \"Greek Dark Ages\". This period, which ranged from approximately 1250 to 750 BC, is estimated to have been immediately preceded by the historical counterpart to Homer's Trojan War. The composition of the \"Iliad\", on the other hand, is placed immediately following the Greek Dark Age period.\n\nFurther controversy surrounds the difference in composition dates between the \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\". It seems that the latter was composed at a later date than the former because the works' differing characterizations of the Phoenicians align with differing Greek popular opinion of the Phoenicians between the 8th and 7th centuries BC, when their skills began to hurt Greek commerce. Whereas Homer's description of Achilles's shield in the \"Iliad\" exhibits minutely detailed metalwork that characterized Phoenician crafts, they are characterized in the \"Odyssey\" as \"manifold scurvy tricksters\".\n\nWolf's speculations were in harmony with the ideas and sentiment of the time, and his historical arguments, especially his long array of testimonies to the work of Peisistratus, were hardly challenged. The effect of Wolf's \"Prolegomena\" was so overwhelming, and its determination so decisive, that, although a few protests were made at the time, the true Homeric controversy did not begin until after his death in 1824.\n\nThe first considerable antagonist of the Wolfian school was Gregor Wilhelm Nitzsch, whose writings cover the years between 1828 and 1862, and deal with every side of the controversy. In the earlier part of his \"Metetemata\" (1830), Nitzsch took up the question of written or unwritten literature, on which Wolf's entire argument turned, and showed that the art of writing must be anterior to Peisistratus. In the later part of the same series of discussions (1837), and in his chief work (\"Die Sagenpoesie der Griechen\", 1852), he investigated the structure of the Homeric poems, and their relation to the other epics of the Trojan cycle.\n\nThese epics had in the meantime been made the subject of a work which, for exhaustive learning and delicacy of artistic perception, has few rivals in the history of philology: the Epic cycle of Friedrich Gottlieb Welcker. The confusion which previous scholars had made between the ancient post-Homeric poets (such as Arctinus of Miletus and Lesches) and the learned mythological writers (like the \"scriptor cyclicus\" of Horace) was first cleared up by Welcker. Wolf had argued that, had the cyclic writers known the \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\" which we possess, they would have imitated the unity of structure which distinguishes these two poems. The aim of Welcker's work was to show that the Homeric poems had influenced both the form and the substance of epic poetry.\n\nThus arose a conservative school who admitted more or less freely the absorption of preexisting lays in the formation of the \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\", and also the existence of considerable interpolations, but assigned the main work of formation to prehistoric times and the genius of a great poet. Whether the two epics were by the same author remained an open question; the tendency of this group of scholars was towards separation. Regarding the use of writing, too, they were not unanimous. Karl Otfried Müller, for instance, maintained the view of Wolf on this point, while strenuously combating the inference which Wolf drew from it.\n\nThe \"Prolegomena\" bore on the title-page the words \"Volumen I\", but no second volume ever appeared; nor was any attempt made by Wolf himself to compose it or carry his theory further. The first important steps in that direction were taken by Johann Gottfried Jakob Hermann, chiefly in two dissertations, \"De interpolationibus Homeri\" (Leipzig, 1832), and \"De iteratis apud Homerum\" (Leipzig, 1840), called forth by the writings of Nitzsch. As the word \"interpolation\" implies, Hermann did not maintain the hypothesis of a conflation of independent lays. Feeling the difficulty of supposing that all ancient minstrels sang of the wrath of Achilles or the return of Odysseus (leaving out even the capture of Troy itself), he was led to assume that two poems of no great compass, dealing with these two themes, became so famous at an early period as to throw other parts of the Trojan story into the background and were then enlarged by successive generations of rhapsodists. Some parts of the \"Iliad\", moreover, seemed to him to be older than the poem on the wrath of Achilles; and thus, in addition to the Homeric and post-Homeric matter, he distinguished a pre-Homeric element.\n\nThe conjectures of Hermann, in which the Wolfian theory found a modified and tentative application, were presently thrown into the shade by the inure trenchant method of Karl Lachmann, who (in two papers read to the Berlin Academy in 1837 and 1841) sought to show that the \"Iliad\" was made up of sixteen independent lays, with various enlargements and interpolations, all finally reduced to order by Peisistratus. The first book, for instance, consists of a lay on the anger of Achilles (1–347), and two continuations, the return of Chryseis (430–492) and the scenes in Olympus (348–429, 493–611). The second book forms a second lay, but several passages, among them the speech of Odysseus (278–332), are interpolated. In the third book, the scenes in which Helen and Priam take part (including the making of the truce) are pronounced to be interpolations; and so on.\n\nNew methods try also to elucidate the question. Combining information technologies and statistics, the stylometry allows to scan various linguistic units: words, parts of speech, sounds... Based on the frequencies of Greek letters, a first study of Dietmar Najock particularly shows the internal cohesion of the Iliad and the Odyssey. Taking into account the repetition of the letters, a recent study of Stephan Vonfelt highlights the unity of the works of Homer compared to Hesiod. The thesis of modern Analysts being questioned, the debate remains open.\n\nMost scholars, although disagreeing on other questions about the genesis of the poems, agree that the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\" were not produced by the same author, based on \"the many differences of narrative manner, theology, ethics, vocabulary, and geographical perspective, and by the apparently imitative character of certain passages of the \"Odyssey\" in relation to the \"Iliad\".\" Nearly all scholars agree that the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\" are unified poems, in that each poem shows a clear overall design, and that they are not merely strung together from unrelated songs. It is also generally agreed that each poem was composed mostly by a single author, who probably relied heavily on older oral traditions. Nearly all scholars agree that the \"Doloneia\" in Book X of the \"Iliad\" is not part of the original poem, but rather a later insertion by a different poet.\n\nSome ancient scholars believed Homer to have been an eyewitness to the Trojan War; others thought he had lived up to 500 years afterwards. Contemporary scholars continue to debate the date of the poems. A long history of oral transmission lies behind the composition of the poems, complicating the search for a precise date. At one extreme, Richard Janko has proposed a date for both poems to the eighth century BC based on linguistic analysis and statistics. Barry B. Powell dates the composition of the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\" to sometime between 800 and 750 BC, based on the statement from Herodotus, who lived in the late fifth century BC, that Homer lived four hundred years before his own time \"and not more\" (καὶ οὐ πλέοσι), and on the fact that the poems do not mention hoplite battle tactics, inhumation, or literacy. At the other extreme, scholars such as Gregory Nagy see \"Homer\" as a continually evolving tradition, which grew much more stable as the tradition progressed, but which did not fully cease to continue changing and evolving until as late as the middle of the second century BC. Martin Litchfield West has argued that the \"Iliad\" echoes the poetry of Hesiod, and that it must have been composed around 660-650 BC at the earliest, with the \"Odyssey\" up to a generation later. He also interprets passages in the \"Iliad\" as showing knowledge of historical events that occurred in the ancient Near East during the middle of the seventh century BC, including the destruction of Babylon by Sennacherib in 689 BC and the Sack of Thebes by Ashurbanipal in 663/4 BC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25692180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25692180", "title": "John Ryan (Dublin artist)", "text": "John Ryan (Dublin artist)\n\nJohn Ryan (1925–1992) was an Irish artist, broadcaster, publisher, critic, editor, and publican.\n\nRyan was a well-known man of letters, artist and a key figure in bohemian Dublin of the 1940s and 1950s. Founded Envoy, A Review of Literature and Art, in response to Irish trade and censorship restrictions. Friend and intimate (and sometime benefactor) to a number of struggling artists and writers in the post-war era, such as Patrick Kavanagh and Brendan Behan; Ryan's memoirs, \"Remembering How We Stood\", evoke literary Dublin of the period 1945-55. Involved in numerous literary events and happenings and, with Brian O'Nolan, organised the first Bloomsday.\n\nJohn Ryan attended Clongowes Wood College and the National College of Art and Design (NCAD), Dublin. One of the eight children of Séamus Ryan, a member of Seanad Éireann, and his wife Agnes Ryan née Harding who came from Kilfeacle and Solohead respectively in County Tipperary and who were Republican activists during the Irish War of Independence. His mother was a patron of the painter Jack Yeats, amongst others. His sister was the actress Kathleen Ryan. Several of Ryan's children followed him into the arts: son and namesake John Ryan (journalist, publisher and actor); Seamus Ryan (photographer); Anna Livia Ryan (actress).\n\nJohn Ryan studied at the NCAD, but was largely a self-taught painter through a practice of 'careful intelligent observation' combined with 'a genuine and humorous love of land, sea and human tradition' (Hilary Pyle, 'John Ryan exhibition in Cork', The Irish Times, 23 October 1981). He was a regular exhibitor at the Royal Hibernian Academy (RHA) from 1946 onwards, and also showed at the annual Oireachtas and the Irish Exhibition of Living Art (IELA). Designed theatre sets for the Abbey, Gate, Olympia and Gaiety Theatres as well as for the stage in London. He also acted in and produced several plays.\n\nIn response to Irish trade and censorship restrictions founded \"Envoy, A Review of Literature and Art\" (1949–1951), and was editor of \"The Dublin Magazine\" from 1970–75. As a writer and critic he contributed to literary magazines and newspapers. Publishing two memoirs, \"Remembering How We Stood\", a memoir of post-war literary Dublin, and \"A Wave of the Sea\" (Ward River, 1981), a marine memoir. A broadcaster from the early 1950s he became a long-time contributor to Sunday Miscellany on Radio Éireann (RTÉ Radio). Purchased The Bailey pub in 1957 which became a famous literary venue frequented by characters such as Kavanagh, O'Nolan, et al. A friend and intimate to a number of struggling artists and writers in the post-war period, such as Behan, Anthony Cronin, Patrick Swift, Seán O'Sullivan, Pearse Hutchinson, J. P. Donleavy and Brian O'Nolan, et al., he was also a benefactor to some of these artists, particularly Patrick Kavanagh. During the war years he very cheaply rented a space above the family's Monument Creameries store (now a Burger King) on Grafton Street to sculptor Desmond MacNamara, and which became the site for a famous bohemian salon attended by all of the foregoing names and many more.\n\nRyan was an important early champion of James Joyce's work in Ireland at a time when Joyce was largely ignored in his homeland: with Brian O'Nolan he organised the first Bloomsday celebration; in 1951 to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the death of James Joyce he published a special number of \"Envoy\" dedicated to Joyce \"which would reflect the attitudes and opinions of his fellow countryman towards their illustrious compatriot\" (Envoy, Vol. 5, No. 17, April 1951), inviting Brian O'Nolan to be guest editor; edited \"A Bash in the Tunnel\": James Joyce by the Irish, Patrick Kavanagh, Brian O'Nolan, Samuel Beckett, Ulick O'Connor, Edna O'Brien (Brighton: Clifton Books 1970); saved Leopold Bloom's front door to 7 Eccles Street from demolition and used it in The Bailey pub in St. Anne Street, Dublin, from whence it was removed and transported to the Joyce Museum on N. Gt. George's St., Oct. 1995; arranged that the James Joyce Tower become a museum; Secretary of the James Joyce Society of Ireland 1970–74.\n\nDecember 1949– July 1951. Founded and edited by Ryan.\nEnvoy was inaugurated in response to Irish trade and censorship restrictions which had forced many writers to seek publication outside their homeland.\nDuring its brief existence, \"Envoy, A Review of Literature and Art\", published the work of a broad range of writers, Irish and others. The first to publish J. P. Donleavy, Brendan Behan's first short stories and his first poem, and an extract from Samuel Beckett's Watt. Envoy included Patrick Kavanagh's infamous monthly \"Diary\". Brian O'Nolan was another substantial contributor and was \"honorary editor\" for the special number commemorating James Joyce.\n\nAn affectionate account of Bohemian Dublin in the 1950s with Behan, Kavanagh, J. P. Donleavy (q.v.), Anthony Cronin and other Dublin characters. Ryan:\n\nFrom the foreword by J. P. Donleavy:\nAs one reads his words, dressed in their wonderful finery of irony, the world he speaks of reblossoms to be back again awhile. To see, feel and smell the Dublin of that day... a masterpiece of reminiscence.\n\nBLOOMSDAY (a term Joyce himself did not employ) was invented in 1954, the 50th anniversary, when John Ryan and the novelist Flann O'Brien organised what was to be a daylong pilgrimage along the Ulysses route. They were joined by Patrick Kavanagh, Anthony Cronin, Tom Joyce (a dentist who, as Joyce's cousin, represented the family interest) and AJ Leventhal (Registrar of Trinity College). Ryan had engaged two horse drawn cabs, of the old-fashioned kind, which in Ulysses Mr. Bloom and his friends drive to poor Paddy Dignam's funeral. The party were assigned roles from the novel. They planned to travel round the city through the day, visiting in turn the scenes of the novel, ending at night in what had once been the brothel quarter of the city, the area which Joyce had called Nighttown. The pilgrimage was abandoned halfway through, when the weary pilgrims succumbed to inebriation and rancour at the Bailey pub in the city centre, which Ryan then owned, and at which, in 1967, he installed the door to No. 7 Eccles Street (Leopold Bloom's front door) having rescued it from demolition . A Bloomsday record of 1954, informally filmed by John Ryan, follows this pilgrimage.\n\nWhenever you mention Patrick Kavanagh’s seat on the Grand Canal Dublin, most people will immediately think of the more famous park bench with the statue of Paddy himself sitting to one side of the seat almost beckoning for someone to sit down beside him. This bench is situated on the north bank of the Grand Canal between Baggot Street Bridge and the upstream Eustace Bridge. John Coll produced the sculpture and the seat was unveiled by President Mary Robinson on 11 June 1991, however this is not the original seat.\nOnly a relatively few people will be aware of the lesser known original Kavanagh seat situated on the South Bank at the Lock Gates close to Baggot Street Bridge. As is well known from his poem and heavy hints to his friends, he wished to be commemorated with a simple canal side seat near the lock gates of Baggot Street Bridge. To this effect shortly after his death in 1967, a committee was formed by the late John Ryan and Denis Dwyer to collect a sum of money to purchase the materials and labour for the seat. The seat was erected in the poet's memory by his friends in 1968.\n\nWriter\n\nEditor / publisher\n\nRelating to\n\n"}
{"id": "40884215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40884215", "title": "List of Goryeo Buddhist paintings", "text": "List of Goryeo Buddhist paintings\n\nThis list is of Buddhist paintings from Goryeo-Dynasty Korea (918-1392). Approximately one hundred and sixty hanging scrolls are known.\n"}
{"id": "45436918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45436918", "title": "List of Prekmurje Slovene literature", "text": "List of Prekmurje Slovene literature\n\nThis article is a list of literature that was published in the Prekmurje Slovene dialect.\n"}
{"id": "3249868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3249868", "title": "Livery collar", "text": "Livery collar\n\nA livery collar or chain of office is a collar or heavy chain, usually of gold, worn as insignia of office or a mark of fealty or other association in Europe from the Middle Ages onwards.\n\nOne of the oldest and best-known livery collars is the Collar of Esses, which has been in continuous use in England since the 14th century.\n\nVarious forms of livery were used in the Middle Ages to denote attachment to a great person by friends, servants, and political supporters. The collar, usually of precious metal, was the grandest form of these, usually given by the person the livery denoted to his closest or most important associates, but should not, in the early period, be seen as separate from the wider phenomenon of livery badges, clothes and other forms. From the collar hung a badge or device indicating the person the livery related to; the most important part of the ensemble for contemporaries. Equally gold collars that had no livery connotations were worn.\n\nLivery collars seem to be first recorded in the 14th century. Charles V of France in 1378 granted to his Chamberlain Geoffrey de Belleville the right of bearing in all feasts and in all companies the collar of the \"Cosse de Geneste\" or Broomcod, a collar which was accepted and worn even by the English kings, Charles VI sending such collars to Richard II and to his three uncles. Although he distributed \"genet\" badges much more widely, only about twenty collars per year were given out, and it was treated somewhat as the sign of a pseudo-chivalric order, although no such order formally existed. The collar of Esses is first recorded earlier than this, as being given by John of Gaunt, and remained in use by the House of Lancaster throughout the Wars of the Roses.\n\nThis French type of collar, a chain of couples of broomcods linked by jewels, is seen in the contemporary Wilton Diptych portrait of Richard II, with Richard's own device of the white hart hanging below (the angels accompanying the Virgin also wear Richard's livery badges). The same collar was worn by Henry IV on the way to his crowning. During the sitting of the Parliament of England in 1394 the complaints of Richard FitzAlan, 11th Earl of Arundel against Richard II are recorded, one of his grievances being that the king had been wearing the livery collar of his uncle John of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster, and that people of the king's following wore the same livery. To which the king answered that soon after the return from Spain (in 1389) of his uncle, the duke, he himself took the collar from his uncle's neck, putting it on his own, which collar the king would wear and use for a sign of the good and whole-hearted love between them, even as he wore the liveries of his other uncles. Livery collars of the king of France, of Queen Anne and of the dukes of York and Lancaster are recorded amongst the royal plate and jewels which in the first year of Henry IV had come to the king's hands. The inventory shows that Queen Anne's collar, was made up of sprigs of rosemary garnished with pearls. The York collar had falcons and fetterlocks, and the Lancaster collar was doubtless that Collar of Esses used by the duke's son, Henry of Bolingbroke (Henry IV), as an earl, duke and king.\n\nThis famous livery collar, which has never passed out of use, takes many forms, its Esses being sometimes linked together chainwise, and sometimes, in early examples, as the ornamental bosses of a garter-shaped strap-collar. The oldest effigy bearing it is that in Spratton church of Sir John Swynford, who died in 1371. Swynford was a follower of John of Gaunt, and the date of his death easily disposes of the theory that the Esses were devised by Henry IV to stand for his motto or \"word\" of Soverayne. Many explanations are given of the origin of these letters, but none has as yet been established. During the reigns of Henry IV, his son (Henry V), and grandson (Henry VI), the collar of Esses was a royal badge of the Lancastrian house and party, the white swan, as in the Dunstable Swan Jewel, usually being its pendant.\n\nIn one of Henry VI's own collars the S was joined to the broomcod of the French device, symbolizing the king's claim to the two kingdoms. The kings of the house of York and their chief followers wore the Yorkist collar of suns and roses, with the white lion of March, the Clare bull, or Richard's white boar for a pendant device. Henry VIII brought back the collar of Esses, a portcullis or a Tudor rose hanging from it, although in a portrait of him, in the Society of Antiquaries, he wears the rose \"en soleil\" alternating with knots, and his son (later Edward VI), when young, had a collar of red and white roses. It was presented to ministers and courtiers, and came to represent more a symbol of office by the time of Elizabeth I.\n\nThe term \"Collar of SS\" was preferred by Victorian antiquaries. Since World War II, as \"SS\" is usually associated with the Schutzstaffel, the term is less often used because of its Nazi connotation.\n\nBesides these royal collars, the 14th and 15th centuries show many private devices. A monumental brass at Mildenhall shows a knight whose badge of a dog or wolf circled by a crown hangs from a collar with edges suggesting a pruned bough or the ragged staff. Thomas of Markenfield (d. c. 1415) on his brass at Ripon has a strange collar of park palings with a badge of a hart in a park, and Thomas de Berkeley, 5th Baron Berkeley (d. 1417) wears one set with mermaids, the Berkeley family heraldic badge.\n\nIn the Renaissance, gold chains tended to replace collars, and portrait miniature of the donor tended to replace the earlier badges with symbolic devices, although \"picture boxes\" containing miniatures could be highly extravagant pieces of jewellery. The Elizabethan artist Nicholas Hilliard was both a goldsmith and miniaturist, and so produced the whole of pieces like the \"Armada Jewel\", given by Queen Elizabeth I of England to a courtier. When the Earl of Rutland returned from an embassy to Denmark, sixteen members of his party were given chains of gold with the James I of England's picture, and others received just a picture. During the sixteenth century collars became marks of a specific office or Order, and subsequently remained so.\n\nMost British and Irish mayors wear a collar/chain of office, and new ones are still designed for new municipalities. The mayor's spouse may have a much smaller version. These are worn over normal clothes when on official duties. Following British practice, most Canadian, Australian and New Zealand mayors also wear chains of office. The custom also spread outside the Commonwealth, to Germany (originally only Prussia) in 1808, to the Netherlands by royal decree in 1852 and to Norway after the mayor of Oslo received one as a gift in 1950, and most Norwegian mayors now have mayoral chains.\n\nCollars of various devices are worn by the knights of some of the European orders of knighthood. The custom was begun by Philip III, Duke of Burgundy, who gave his knights of the Golden Fleece, badges of a golden fleece hung from a collar of flints, steels and sparks. Following this new fashion, Louis XI of France, when instituting his order of St. Michael in 1469, gave the knights collars of scallop shells linked on a chain.\n\nThe chain was doubled by Charles VIII, and the pattern suffered other changes before the order lapsed in 1830.\n\nAt the end of the 18th century most of the European orders had only one rank—that of Knight—and although they usually had collars the cross or badge was now worn on a ribbon around the neck or over the right shoulder. When the orders became more democratic several ranks were introduced and only the highest grade, the Grand Commanders or Grand Crosses, wore collars. The Netherlands never had collars but several Belgian, most of the Austrian and Prussian orders and several Portuguese orders had collars. In Portugal all the members of these orders of knighthood wore a collar but the collars of the Grand-crosses were more elaborate.\n\nIn England, until the reign of Henry VIII, the Order of the Garter, most ancient of the great knightly orders, had no collar. But the Tudor king must needs match in all things with continental sovereigns, and the present collar of the Garter knights, with its golden knots and its buckled garters enclosing white roses set on red roses, has its origin in the Tudor age.\n\nKnights of most of the British orders have collars which are worn on special occasions, but not the Knights Bachelor or holders of decorations such as the Distinguished Service Order, the Order of Merit, The Order of the Companions of Honour and the Imperial Service Order. The Royal Victorian Chain is a collar and there are no other insignia.\n\nIn France, Emperor Napoleon I introduced the \"Grand aigle\", a collar, as the highest rank in his Légion d'honneur. It did not survive his downfall.\n\nSometimes the collar is the insignia of office of the Grand Master of the order; the French president therefore wears the collar of the Order of the Légion d'honneur. In other countries such as Brazil the collar is a rank above that of a Grand Cross and it is reserved for the president and foreign heads of state.\n\nCollars also have a long history within Freemasonry. Collars are often worn by officers of high rank. Nearly all Grand Lodge officers wear collars as an emblem of their office. In history, many such collars are quite valuable, featuring gold and precious jewels. \n\nCollars vary widely among Masonic Grand Lodges. While those Lodges working under the Grand Lodge of England have fairly uniform designs, Grand Lodges in the United States vary widely, employing collars made from metal chains backed by velvet, to those made of velvet and embroidered with gold and silver bullion thread.\n\nToday, Lodge officers wear a cloth or fabric collar with a simple jewel of their office pendant to it. Each jewel represents a skill or virtue which he possesses and instructs the brothers of Masonry in. In some jurisdictions, these jewels are silver-plated for the Craft or Blue Lodges under 100 years old. In cases of Lodges over 100 years, these jewels are gold-plated. The collar shapes are identical which sit on the wearers shoulders and fall over the chest, ending in a point between the breasts. Except the Master's collar which is circular and far more elaborate in design signifying his skills and knowledge in the Craft are of the highest degree.\n\n\nWard, Matthew, \"The Livery Collar in Late Medieval England and Wales: Politics, Identity and Affinity\" (The Boydell Press: Woodbridge, 2016).\n\n"}
{"id": "47686300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47686300", "title": "Lyricism", "text": "Lyricism\n\nLyricism is a quality that expresses deep feelings or emotions in an inspired work of art.\n\nLyricism is when art is expressed in a beautiful or imaginative way, or when it has an expressive quality. Although the term lyricism is often used in conjunction with art composed of sound alone, it can also apply to all forms of art including performance, architecture, or film.\n\nAlthough it is impossible to define beauty, emotion, or imagination in a definitive manner, it is possible to draw upon examples of works that may share those characteristics in both subtle and dramatic ways. The following are some classic examples of lyricism:\n\n"}
{"id": "35869337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35869337", "title": "Madonna of St. Jerome (Correggio)", "text": "Madonna of St. Jerome (Correggio)\n\nThe Madonna and Child with Sts Jerome and Mary Magdalen (The Day) is an oil on canvas painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Correggio dating from around 1528 and housed in the Galleria Nazionale of Parma, Italy.\n\nThe canvas was commissioned in 1523 by Briseide Colla for a private chapel on the right side of the church of Sant'Antonio Abate in Parma. Contemporary art historian and painter Giorgio Vasari described the work's \"il mirabile colorito\" (\"wonderful color\"), and it was also studied by El Greco.\n\nIn the early 18th century, the church needed costly restoration works and several collectors, including the Kings of Poland and France and the Holy Roman Emperor, offered to buy the work. However, in 1749 it was transferred into the Cathedral of Parma and later was bought by the Duchy of Parma. During the French occupation of northern Italy, it was stolen and brought to France. The painting was returned to Italy in 1815 and placed on display in the Parma gallery. A 1724 copy of the painting hangs in the chapel of Palais Rohan, Strasbourg.\n\n"}
{"id": "38991074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38991074", "title": "Margaret Mee and the Moonflower", "text": "Margaret Mee and the Moonflower\n\nMargaret Mee and the Moonflower () is a 2012 Brazilian documentary film directed by Malu De Martino, about the work and legacy of British botanical artist Margaret Mee, who moved to Brazil in the 1950s, produced over 400 illustrations about Brazilian flora and, used her art as a tool to defend the environmentalism.\n\n"}
{"id": "24201288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24201288", "title": "Marion Hänsel", "text": "Marion Hänsel\n\nMarion Hänsel (born 12 February 1949) is a Belgian film director, producer, actress and screenwriter. Her film \"Between the Devil and the Deep Blue Sea\" was entered into the 1995 Cannes Film Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "56262740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56262740", "title": "Martine Chartrand", "text": "Martine Chartrand\n\nMartine Chartrand (born 1962) is a Haitian Canadian filmmaker, visual artist and teacher. She practices a paint-on-glass animation technique to create her films. Throughout Chartrand's career, she has been involved with numerous films and has made three animated shorts which have been exhibited across Canada and internationally. Her films often deal with social and cultural issues relating to Black culture and Black history.\n\nBorn in 1962, Chartrand was adopted and raised in Montreal, Quebec. She graduated from Concordia University with a Bachelor of Fine Arts in 1986 and earned a certificate in Arts Education at UQAM in 1988. After graduating she began making a living by creating poster graphics and giving workshops in exhibitions across Canada and Europe. Before becoming involved in animation, Chartrand worked as a painter and illustrator. In 1986, Chartrand became working as a layout and colour artist. She joined the National Film Board officially as a colour artist, assisting Pierre M. Trudeau during the shooting of \"Enfantillages\" (1990). She then collaborated on \"Jours de plaine\" (1990), co-directed by Réal Bérard and André Leduc.\n\nAdditionally, Chartrand is in high demand as a lecturer for conferences, master classes, and art workshops worldwide. She guides artists and shares the techniques and craft involved in creating paint-on-glass animation.\n\nIn 1992, Chartrand directed her first animated film for the NFB \"T.V. Tango\". An award-winning short designed to encourage children to be critical of televised advertising messages and help them understand what they're seeing.\n\nIn 1994, Chartrand was given advanced courses in paint-on-glass animation by Alexander Petrov. A painstaking process which involves years of painting thousands of paintings and filming them frame by frame to create a fluid motion.\n\nProduced by the National Film Board of Canada, \"Black Soul\" (French: Âme noire) is an award-winning animated short directed and written by Martine Chartrand. It is the story of a young boy who explores his cultural heritage through the stories of his grandmother. An emotionally rich and vibrant piece which employs painted glass frames shot with a 35mm camera. Its soundtrack features traditional African rhythms, gospel music by Ranee Lee and a composition by jazz pianist Oliver Jones. Among its achievements, Black Soul won the Golden Bear for Best Short Film at the 51st Berlin International Film Festival.\n\nFor 8 years, Chartrand worked steadily on her next film \"MacPherson\". Inspired by a song by famed French-Canadian singer-songwriter Félix Leclerc, \"MacPherson\" is a poetic film which combines Quebec folk music with vivid painted imagery.\n\nChartrand is the subject of the documentary \"Finding Macpherson\" (2014) directed by Serge Giguère which follows the artistic processes she undertook in order to create her short film \"MacPherson\" (2012). It also draws parallels between Chartrand and Frank Randolph Macpherson, as she traces her Haitian heritage through the film.\n\nPaint-on-glass animation style involves the manipulation of wet media to create animated films. The artist's paints are moved around the glass which is placed directly under a camera. When filmed frame-by-frame, the images blend and give the illusion of merging and melting into each successive frame. The end result is a fluid sense of movement which creates a painterly effect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12274750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12274750", "title": "Mount Khajeh", "text": "Mount Khajeh\n\nMount Khwaja or Mount Khwajeh (locally: \"Kuh-e Khājeh\") is a flat-topped black basalt hill rising up as an island in the middle of Lake Hamun, in the Iranian province of Sistan and Baluchestan.\n\nThe trapezoid-shaped basalt lava outcropping, located 30 km southwest of the town of Zabol, rises to 609 meters above sea level and has a diameter ranging from 2.0 to 2.5 kilometres. It is the only natural height in the Sistan area, and is named after an Islamic pilgrimage site on the hill: the tomb and shrine of Khwaja Ali Mahdi, a descendant of Ali ibn Abi Talib.\n\nMount Khwaja is also an important archaeological site: On the southern promontory of the eastern slope, the ruins of a citadel complex - known as the Ghagha-Shahr - with its remains of a fire temple attest to the importance of the island in pre-Islamic Iran. According to Zoroastrian legend, Lake Hamun is the keeper of Zoroaster's seed. In Zoroastrian eschatology, when the final renovation of the world is near, maidens will enter the lake and then give birth to the \"saoshyans\", the saviours of humankind.\n\nThe fire temple is on a terrace behind high walls and is protected by two forts, whose remains are respectively known as Kok-e Zal and Chehel Dokhtaran. Collectively, the ruins are called Qal'a-e Kafaran \"Fort of Infidels\" or Qal'a-e Sam \"Fort of Sam,\" the grandfather of the mythical Rostam (one of the fortresses here is named \"Rostams castle\"). Both names reflect pre-Islamic heritage. The walls of the temple were once extravagantly decorated with murals, some of which are now on display in museums in Tehran, Berlin, New Delhi and New York.\n\nThe citadel complex was first investigated by Marc Aurel Stein in 1915-1916. The site was later excavated by Ernst Herzfeld, and was again investigated in part by Giorgio Gullini in a short expedition of 1960. Initially, Herzfeld tentatively dated the palace complex to the 1st century CE, that is, to the Arsacid period (248 BCE-224 CE). Herzfeld later revised his estimate to a later date and today the Sassanid period (224-651 CE) is usually considered to be more likely. Three bas-reliefs on the outer walls that depict riders and horses are attributed to this later period. Beyond the citadel at the top of the plateau are several other unrelated buildings, of uncertain function and probably dating to the Islamic period.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15711040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15711040", "title": "Peter Laszlo Peri", "text": "Peter Laszlo Peri\n\nPeter Laszlo Peri (June 13, 1899 – January 19, 1967) was an artist and sculptor.\n\nLadislas Weisz was born June 13, 1899 in Budapest, Hungary. Antisemitism forced his family to change their name to the more Hungarian \"Péri\". When he moved to Germany, he was known as Laszlo Péri. After he moved to England, he adopted the name \"Peter Peri\". His grandson, an artist born in 1971, also has the name Peter Peri.\n\nBorn in 1899, in Budapest into a large, proletarian Jewish family Peri became politicised at an early age. In 1919, he finished an apprenticeship as a bricklayer, and became a student at the workshops for proletariat fine arts in 1919. He was in contact with Lajos Kassák and the Activists. In 1917, he began his career as an actor at the MA Theater School, studying with János Mácsza. As part of a theatre company he went to Prague where he heard about the fall of the Republic of Councils. He studied architecture in 1919–20 in Budapest and Berlin. He lived for a short time in Paris in 1920, in the house of a socialist baker, before being forced to leave the country due to his political activities.\n\nPeri moved to Vienna, then on to Berlin in 1921, where he created his first abstract geometric reliefs. In February 1922, he had a show with Moholy-Nagy at Der Sturm Gallery, Berlin. In 1923, his portfolio containing twelve linocuts was published by Der Sturm Verlag. His contributions to constructivism at the time were to challenge the surface of the wall by producing irregularly shaped wall reliefs and to open up new planes; namely the discovery of concrete as a potential sculptural medium, colouring it if necessary, and the appreciation of the hard contour as a visual device, as seen in his collages and linoprints. These could be used to create a visual medium hovering between the relief and architecture; whereas Moholy-Nagy's \"Glasarchitektur\" achieved this using paint and canvas, Péri used less conventional media.\n\nAt the \"Grosse Berliner Kunstausstellung\" in May 1923, between the contributions of Van Doesburg and El Lissitzky’s ‘Proun Room’ he showed his three-piece x composition which, while it may also have been executed in paint on wood, had pretensions to be executed in concrete. Peri, joined the German Communist Party (KPD) in 1923. His 1924, constructivist design for a Lenin tribute for the German art exhibition in Moscow, marked the end of his investigations into the non-objective.\n\nThat same year Peri began to work for the Berlin municipal architectural office and was there from 1924 to 1928. Probably motivated by a vision to put his productivist values into action, but frustrated he quit the job in 1928. In 1928, he signed the manifesto and statutes of the Association of Revolutionary Visual Artists of Germany (\"Assoziation Revolutionärer Bildener Künstler Deutschlands\") (ARBKD) (ASSO) which, like other new and militant Communist art organisations, called for a reinvigoration of the idea of \"proletarian culture\" and suitably positive images of working-class life and culture. He was also a mMember of \"Die Abstrakten\" (The Abstracts) and \"Rote Gruppe\" (Red Group). In 1929, he returned to representational painting and sculpture.\n\nPeri immigrated to England in 1933, after his wife Mary Macnaghten granddaughter of social reformer Charles Booth was arrested in possession of Communist propaganda. In 1934, Peri contributed \"several forceful works in coloured concrete\" to the AIA (Artists’ International Association) exhibition The Social Scene. He made contact with John Heartfield. In England, he lived first in Ladbroke Grove, then in Hampstead; in 1938, he moved to a studio in Camden Town where he worked until 1966. While in Hampstead, Peri joined the recently founded English section of the Artists International (later to be known as Artists International Association), an association composed largely of commercial artists and designers whose declared intention was to mobilise \"the international unity of artists against Imperialist War on the Soviet Union, Fascism and Colonial oppression\". In July 1938, he had a solo exhibition London Life in Concrete in an empty building at 36 Soho Square. In 1939, he became a British citizen and took the name \"Peter Peri\". In November 1948, he held a solo show Peri's People at the AIA Gallery. Late in the 1940s he did a series of commissions for the London County Council. In 1951, Peri produced a sculptural group \"The Sunbathers\" for the Festival of Britain. Commissions from Stuart Mason, Director of Education for Leicestershire included \"Two Children Calling A Dog\", \"Scraptoft\", c. 1956; \"Atom Boy\", and \"Birstall\", 1960.\n\nWhen the Herbert Art Gallery & Museum opened in 1960, Peri was commissioned to \"represent the life and activities [of Coventry] in modern terms and materials\"; the work is known simply as \"The Coventry Sculpture\"\n\nPeri joined the Quaker faith and produced a small bronze sculpture of a Quaker Meeting, much loved by the students of Woodbrooke Study Centre, Birmingham, where it is now located.\n\nPeter Peri died January 19, 1967.\n\n\nMOMA, New York\n\nCentre Pompidou, Paris\n\nBerardo Collection, Lisbon\n\nWilhelm Lehmbruck Museum, Duisburg \n\nKunstmuseum Bochum, Bochum\n\nHolocaust Museum, Tel Aviv \n\nMuseum fur angewandte kunst, Cologne\n\nMuseum de Grenoble, Grenoble\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "214490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=214490", "title": "Political theatre", "text": "Political theatre\n\nPolitical theatre is theatre that comments on political and social issues.\n\nIn the history of theatre, there is long tradition of performances addressing issues of current events, especially those central to society itself. The political satire performed by the comic poets at the theatres had considerable influence on public opinion in the Athenian democracy. Those earlier Western dramas, arising out of the polis, or democratic city-state of Greek society, were performed in amphitheaters, central arenas used for theatrical performances, religious ceremonies and political gatherings; these dramas had a ritualistic and social significance that enhanced the relevance of the political issues being examined.\n\nShakespeare is an author of political theatre according to some academic scholars, who observe that his history plays examine the machinations of personal drives and passions determining political activity and that many of the tragedies such as \"King Lear\" and \"Macbeth\" dramatize political leadership and complexity subterfuges of human beings driven by the lust for power. For example, they observe that class struggle in the Roman Republic is central to \"Coriolanus\".\n\nHistorically in Soviet Russia, the term political theatre was sometimes referred to as agitprop theatre or simply agitprop, after the Soviet term agitprop.\n\nIn later centuries, political theatre has sometimes taken a different form. Sometimes associated with cabaret and folk theatre, it has offered itself as a theatre 'of, by, and for the people'. In this guise, political theatre has developed within the civil societies under oppressive governments as a means of actual underground communication and the spreading of critical thought.\n\nOften political theatre has been used to promote specific political theories or ideals, for example in the way agitprop theatre has been used to further Marxism and the development of communist sympathies. Russian agitprop theater was noted for its cardboard characters of perfect virtue and complete evil, and its coarse ridicule.\n\nBut Marxist theatre wasn't always this directly agitational. Bertolt Brecht developed a highly elaborate and sophisticated new aesthetics--epic theater—to address the spectator in a more rational way. Brecht's aesthetics have influenced political playwrights throughout the world, especially in India and Africa. Augusto Boal developed the Brechtian form of \"Lehrstücke\" into his internationally acclaimed \"Theatre of the Oppressed\", with its techniques of 'forum theatre' and 'invisible theatre', to further social change. Boal's work in this area has contributed to the emergence of the Theatre for Development movement across the world. In the sixties playwrights like Peter Weiss adopted a more 'documentary' approach towards political theatre, following on from the example of Erwin Piscator in the twenties. Weiss wrote plays closely based on historical documents like the proceedings of the Auschwitz trial in Frankfurt.\n\nLess radical versions of political theatre have become established within the mainstream modern repertory - such as the realist dramas of Arthur Miller (\"The Crucible\" and \"All My Sons\"), which probe the behavior of human beings as social and political animals.\n\nA new form of political theatre emerged in the twentieth century with feminist authors like Elfriede Jelinek or Caryl Churchill, who often make use of the non-realistic techniques detailed above.. During the 1960s and 1970s, new theatres emerged addressing women's issues. These theatres went beyond producing feminist plays, but also sought to give women opportunities and work experience in all areas of theatrical production which had heretofore been dominated by men. In addition to playwright, producers, and actors, there were opportunities for women electricians, set designers, musical director, stage managers, etc.\n\nThe Living Theatre, created by Judith Malina and her husband Julian Beck in 1947, which had its heyday in the 1960s, during the Vietnam War, is a primary example of politically oriented Brechtian performance art in the United States. Their original productions of Kenneth Brown's \"The Brig\" (c. 1964), also filmed, and of Jack Gelber's controversial play \"The Connection\" and its 1961 film rely upon and illustrate the dramaturgy of Brechtian alienation effect (\"Verfremdungseffekt\") that most political theatre uses to some extent, forcing the audience to take a \"critical perspective\" on events being dramatized or projected on screen(s) and building on aspects of the Theatre of Cruelty, which developed from the theory and practice of French early surrealist and proto-absurdist Antonin Artaud.\n\nIn American regional theatre, a politically oriented social orientation occurs in Street theatre, such as that produced by the San Francisco Mime Troupe and ROiL. The Detroit Repertory Theatre has been among those regional theaters at the forefront of political comedy, staging plays like Jacob M. Appel's Arborophilia, in which a lifelong Democrat prefers that her daughter fall in love with a poplar tree instead of a Republican activist. In 2014, Chicago's Annoyance Theater produced Good Morning Gitmo: a one-act play by Mishu Hilmy and Eric Simon which lampoons the US Detention Center at Guantanamo Bay.\n\nJohn McGrath, founder of the Scottish popular theatre company , argued that \"the theatre can never 'cause' a social change. It can articulate pressure towards one, help people celebrate their strengths and maybe build their self-confidence… Above all, it can be the way people find their voice, their solidarity and their collective determination.\"\n\nThe Iraq War is the focus of some recent British political drama; for example, \"Stuff Happens\", by David Hare. David Edgar and Mark Ravenhill also satirize contemporary socio-political realities in their recent dramatic works.\n\nBanner Theatre in Birmingham, England, in the United Kingdom, is an example of a specific kind of political theatre called Documentary theatre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49119824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49119824", "title": "Portrait of Erasmus of Rotterdam", "text": "Portrait of Erasmus of Rotterdam\n\nHans Holbein the Younger painted the Portrait of Erasmus of Rotterdam several times, and his paintings were much copied, at the time and later. It is difficult to disentangle Holbein's original work from that of his workshop and other copyists. Possibly five largely original versions survive, as well as a number of drawings made as studies. \n\nHolbein's portraits played an important part in spreading the painter's reputation across Europe, as they and their copies were widely distributed. When Holbein moved to England he had a letter of recommendation from Erasmus to Thomas More, in whose house he initially lived.\n\nDesiderius Erasmus of Rotterdam (1466/69–1536) was a renowned humanist scholar and theologian. He moved in 1521 to Basel, the city where Hans Holbein the Younger lived and had his workshop. Such was the fame of Erasmus, who corresponded with scholars throughout Europe, that he needed many portraits of himself to send abroad to his protectors; although not an admirer of painting, he understood the power of image. Quentin Matsys painted a noticeably younger Erasmus, writing, in 1517, and used another profile portrait for a medal in 1519. Albrecht Dürer made a portrait in engraving in 1526. But it was Holbein's images that were endlessly copied. Of the work Erasmus wrote in 1524, \"Recently I sent again two portraits of Erasmus to France, painted by a very skillful artist. The artist carried along my portrait to France.\" \n\nThere are three main portrait types: a three-quarters view, probably of 1523, best-known from the National Gallery version; a profile view also from 1523, reading, as in the Louvre, and an older three-quarters view, perhaps c. 1530, probably best represented by the portrait miniature, a roundel 10cm across, in the Kunstmuseum Basel. \n\nAll of these were produced in many versions, several probably at least partly by Holbein himself, or supervised by him. The pose and face tends to remain the same, but the clothes and backgrounds vary. It seems to have been Holbein's practice to make a very careful drawing of his subjects (though no full drawings for any of these portraits survive) and to then produce the painted portrait without the sitter being present. The Louvre has drawings done as studies for the hands of both its painted version and the London version.\n\nThere is also a small emblemmatic depiction of an idealized Erasmus as the Roman god Terminus (his personal emblem), of 1532, now in the Cleveland Museum of Art.\nThe version also known as Portrait of Desiderius Erasmus of Rotterdam with Renaissance Pilaster is a 1523 painting in oil and tempera on panel, in the National Gallery, London (on long-term loan from the Earl of Radnor). Holbein painted three much-copied portraits of Erasmus in 1523, of which this is the largest and most elaborate. It is likely the one sent to , Archbishop of Canterbury, in England. Holbein later painted Warham after he travelled to England in 1526 in search of work, with a recommendation from Erasmus, who had once lived in England himself. Holbein's portrait of Erasmus includes a Latin couplet by the scholar, inscribed on the edge of the leaning book on the shelf, which states that Holbein would rather have a slanderer than an imitator. According to art historian Stephanie Buck, this portrait is \"an idealized picture of a sensitive, highly cultivated scholar, and this was precisely how Erasmus wanted to be remembered by future generations\".\n\nThe painting was formerly at Longford Castle, home of the Earl of Radnor, and may be referred to by this.\n\nThe Greek and Latin words on the book translate to \"The Herculean Labours of Erasmus of Rotterdam\".\n\n"}
{"id": "53693933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53693933", "title": "Riding Up Front", "text": "Riding Up Front\n\nRiding Up Front (RUF), Inc. is a California-based non-profit 501(c)(3) supporting immigrant rights founded by Wei-En Tan, Ph.D., who is an immigrant to the U.S. In March 2017, RUF launched the RUF Art Blog Project, an ongoing collection of stories from Uber, Lyft, and Taxi passengers and drivers illustrated in collaboration with artists from around the world. The art blog also collects donations to support nonprofits doing work for immigrant populations such as the ACLU, the American Immigration Council and the International Rescue Committee.\n\nRiding Up Front was originally a personal blog of Tan's that aimed to record memorable conversations she had with her Uber, Lyft and Taxi drivers during business trips. Following the 2016 American elections, Tan realized there was a growing animosity toward immigrants largely fueled by a lack of understanding. In January 2016, the President Trump issued the travel ban. Consequently, Tan and Dr. Anais Rameau, RUF Board Chair, decided to expand the personal blog into a community-driven creative project in hope to humanize immigrants in light of the current political climate, both in the U.S. and worldwide.\n\nWei-En Tan, Ph.D. - founder and Executive Director, also founder and President, COO at AI company Visla Labs.\n\nAnaïs Rameau, M.D. - Board Chair, Laryngologist Surgeon at Cornell Weill Medicine in NYC, of French-Iranian background.\n\nMark Argyle - Curator, web content designer, editor and copywriter from Melbourne, Australia.\n\nKevin Quennesson - Creative Director, also AI and ML leader at Twitter, entrepreneur and engineer originally from France.\n\nMartha Rodriguez Clavell, J.D. - Communications Director, the youngest board member of the ACLU in Miami and born in Havana, Cuba.\n\nLatasha James – Outreach Manager, social media professional living in Detroit, Michigan.\n\nRiding Up Front is actively seeking more artwork and stories from worldwide, and encourages building a community based on sharing stories and art. Stories are curated by the RUF founding volunteer team who share the experience of immigration or as refugees. The participating artists get to choose the style they work best with. Each story is about a connection made between the driver and passenger, regardless of race, religion, or gender.\n\n"}
{"id": "10508392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10508392", "title": "Robert Cromek", "text": "Robert Cromek\n\nRobert Hartley Cromek (1770–1812) was an English engraver, editor, art dealer and entrepreneur who was most active in the early nineteenth century. He is best known for having allegedly cheated William Blake out of the potential profits of his engraving depicting Chaucer's Canterbury Pilgrims.\n\nIn the early years of the nineteenth century Cromek had supported Blake, and had engraved Blake's design for Benjamin Heath Malkin's \"A Father's Memoirs of his Child\" in 1806. Cromek later commissioned Blake to illustrate Robert Blair's poem \"The Grave\". Blake had produced the designs, but his sample engraving was considered by Cromek to be too crude to attract subscribers. Cromek then gave the lucrative job of engraving Blake's designs to a rival engraver Luigi Schiavonetti.\n\nIn response, Blake proceeded to create a self-engraved illustration to Chaucer's \"Canterbury Tales\". Cromek, however, had also given the idea to Blake's friend Thomas Stothard. Stothard's print became far more popular than Blake's, at least during their lifetimes. It remains unclear whether Blake or Cromek originated this project, but Blake certainly believed that the idea was stolen from him. The incident destroyed the friendship between Blake and Stothard.\n\nAs a savagely humorous comment on these events Blake wrote epigrams attacking Cromek: \n\nCromek loves artists as he loves his meat:<br>\nHe loves the Art; but 'tis the art to cheat.<br>\n<br>\nA petty sneaking knave I knew--<br>\n\"O! Mr. Cromek, how do ye do?\"\n\nIn 1809 Cromek published \"Remains of Nithsdale and Galloway Song\", a collection of Scottish ballads. The aspirant poet Allan Cunningham sent in poems of his own authorship, which Cromek included in the collection, even though he may have suspected their real authorship.\n\nAbout that time Cromek also compiled \"RELIQUES OF ROBERT BURNS; Consisting Chiefly of Original Letters, Poems, and Critical Observations on Scottish Songs \". The original edition of 1808 contained a 4-page work by Thomas Stothard, \"The Procession of Chaucer's Pilgrims to Canterbury\", which did not appear in some later editions.\n\nHis son was the artist Thomas Hartley Cromek.\n"}
{"id": "268873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268873", "title": "Royal Swedish Opera", "text": "Royal Swedish Opera\n\nRoyal Swedish Opera () is Sweden's national stage for opera and ballet.\n\nThe building is located in the center of Sweden's capital Stockholm in the borough of Norrmalm, on the eastern side of Gustav Adolfs torg across from the former Arvfurstens Palats, now Ministry for Foreign Affairs. It lies on the north side of the Norrström river and is connected to the Royal Palace through the Norrbro bridge.\n\nFurther historically as well as architecturally important buildings in the close neighborhood are the Sager House, official residence of the Prime Minister of Sweden, and the Riksdag building.\n\nThe opera company was founded by King Gustav III and its first performance, \"Thetis and Phelée\" with Carl Stenborg and Elisabeth Olin, was given on January 18, 1773; this was the first native speaking opera performed in Sweden.\n\nBut the first opera house was not opened until 1782 and served for a century before being replaced at the end of the 19th century. Both houses are officially called the \"Royal Opera\", however the terms \"The Gustavian Opera\" and \"The Oscarian Opera\", or the \"Old\" and \"New\" Opera are used when distinction is needed.\n\nThe original Stockholm Opera House, the work of architect Carl Fredrik Adelcrantz was commissioned by King Gustav III, a strong adherent of the ideal of an enlightened absolutism and as such was a great patron of the arts. The Swedish Opera company had first been located in Bollhuset, but there was a need to separate the Opera from the theatre and give them separate buildings. Construction began in 1775 and the theatre was inaugurated on 30 September 1782 with a performance of the German composer Johann Gottlieb Naumann's \"Cora och Alonzo\". \nIt was also the place for public masquerade balls, events inspired from the famous opera-balls in Paris, which was open for everyone wearing a mask at a cheap cost and somewhat ill-reputed. \nThe building was very imposing with its centre Corinthian tetrastyle portico supporting four statues and topped by the royal crown. The four-tiered auditorium was oval in shape, had excellent acoustics and sight lines. The sumptuous foyer contained neoclassic medallions and pilasters.\n\nIt was in the foyer of the opera house where the king met his fate: during a masquerade on March 16, 1792, he was shot by Jacob Johan Anckarström, and died 7 days later. (In turn, this event inspired the operas \"Gustave III\" by Daniel Auber and \"Un ballo in maschera\" by Verdi.) Following the assassination, the opera house was closed until 1 November 1792, when it was opened again, which by some was considered shocking. The son of Gustav III, King Gustav IV Adolf of Sweden, did not like the Opera, possibly because of the murder of his father, and disliked the fact that the scene of his father's murder was used as a place of amusement and leisure, and when a frivolous play was performed for his queen Frederica of Baden in 1806, he decided to close it down. It remained closed until 1809, and when the king was deposed, it took until May 1812, before it was organised enough to be fully opened again.\n\nThe old opera was demolished in 1892 to give way to the construction of a new Opera drawn by Axel Johan Anderberg, which was finished seven years later and inaugurated by King Oscar II with a production of a Swedish opera (that tradition having been quite firmly established during the 19th century), Franz Berwald's \"Estrella de Soria\".\n\nThe new house had the letters \"Kungl. Teatern\", literally \"Royal Theatre\" (which caused the later-founded Royal Dramatic Theatre to add the distinction \"dramatic\" to its name). The building is now simply called \"Operan\" (\"The Opera\"), written in golden letters above the middle arch on the front facade. It is a majestic neo-classical building with a magnificent gold foyer \"(Guldfoajén)\" and elegant marble grand staircase leading to a three-tiered auditorium somewhat smaller than the old theatre. It presently seats 1,200. Most productions are now sung in the original language (with Swedish subtitles), with only a few in Swedish.\n\nThe Royal Swedish Family of King Carl XVI Gustaf keeps the Royal Box reserved, located in the first tier in the auditorium above the orchestra pit.\n\nFamous singers who originally were (or still are) part of the opera's ensemble are Jussi Björling, Gösta Winbergh, Nicolai Gedda, Peter Mattei, Jenny Lind, Birgit Nilsson, Elisabeth Söderström, Anne Sofie von Otter, Katarina Dalayman and Nina Stemme.\n\nThe orchestra of the Royal Swedish Opera, the Royal Swedish Orchestra, \"Kungliga Hovkapellet\", dates back to 1526. Royal housekeeping accounts from 1526 mention twelve musicians including wind players and a timpanist but no string players. Consequently, the Royal Swedish Orchestra is one of the oldest orchestras in Europe.\n\nArmas Järnefelt was on the music staff from 1905, rising to become chief conductor between 1923-1933 and 1938-1946. The Royal Swedish Ballet, \"Kungliga Baletten\", was founded by Gustav III of Sweden in 1773.\n\nThe current general manager of the Royal Swedish Opera is the Swedish mezzo-soprano Birgitta Svendén. In November 2011, the Dutch conductor Lawrence Renes was named the next chief conductor of the company, as of the 2012–13 season, with an initial contract through the 2016–17 season.\n\nNotes\nSources\n"}
{"id": "3990952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3990952", "title": "Scam genealogical book", "text": "Scam genealogical book\n\nThe popularity of genealogy, encouraged by the increasing use of the Internet is encouraging a number of people to mass-market what authorities regard as scam \"genealogical books\" which are sometimes promoted by affiliated websites. They tend to contain a general introduction, a section about the origin of surnames in general, a section about heraldry, a couple of blank charts for the purchaser to copy and complete once he has done his own research, a few recipes and (sometimes) a list of names, addresses and telephone numbers culled from the publicly available telephone directories. The books are not unique to a particular surname, are not published annually and contain no pictures of the buyer's family members. In a recent case, Jeffery Scism, a San Bernardino, California genealogist, said the fines for such practises are puny when compared with the hundreds of thousands of dollars he believes such vendors rake in. \n\nThose who have sold such books so far include:\n"}
{"id": "1887803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1887803", "title": "Shubb", "text": "Shubb\n\nShubb is a company that specialises in producing capos for all kinds of stringed instruments. The company was formed in 1974 by banjoists Rick Shubb and Dave Coontz. Shubb capos remain a top-selling capo forty years after their invention. Shubb wanted to create a capo that would not make his instrument go out of tune, which has resulted in ongoing efforts to refine his invention.\n\nThe Shubb Capo utilises an \"over-centre\" locking action, which is lever operated. The design includes a screw for adjusting the clamp's tightness, and has been described as \"a turning point in modern capo design.\"\n\nShubb capos are available in variety of models to fit different types of guitars, banjos, dobros, and ukuleles. For example, there are \"Shubb Capos for Steel String Guitar\" which fit most acoustic and electric guitars; the \"Shubb Capos for Nylon String Guitar\" are designed for guitars with wide flat fretboards, etc. Furthermore, each model is available in different styles, namely Original (nickel-plated or plain, unplated brass), Capo Noir (black chrome) and Deluxe (stainless steel with improved roller design on the lever).\n\nThe Shubb capo was introduced at the 1980 NAMM Show, and became a favorite on the Usenet acoustic guitar newsgroup.\n\nAn advantage with using this type of capo is that it does not change the intonation in a way that makes the instrument difficult to tune, as it \"mimics the grip of a human hand.\" A disadvantage is that the rubber sleeve may wear, and may need to be replaced.\n\nThe Shubb partial capos can be useful for playing fingerstyle guitar and for playing in alternate tunings.\n\nThe Shubb capo was featured in the 2007 Acoustic Guitar magazine's Player's Choice awards.\n\nNotable users of the Shub capo include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42338091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42338091", "title": "Singing All Along", "text": "Singing All Along\n\nSinging All Along is a 2016 Chinese television series produced by Ruby Lin, starring Lin and Yuan Hong. Set in 1st-century imperial China, the drama is based on Li Xin (李歆)'s 2007–2009 romantic novel series \"Xiuli Jiangshan\" (秀丽江山) and focuses on the relationship between Liu Xiu (Emperor Guangwu), a peasant-turned-Eastern Han dynasty founder and Yin Lihua (Empress Guanglie), the love of his life. Although the original novel involved time travel, the television series does not contain those parts.\n\nFilming began in October 2013 in Xiangshan County, Zhejiang, China with a budget of ¥150 million (over 24 million USD). The show premiered on Jiangsu Television on 21 July 2016.\n\nIn 22 AD, the peasant brothers Liu Yan and Liu Xiu led a rebel force to overthrow the oppressive Xin empire and to restore the Han dynasty. Yin Lihua, their beautiful childhood friend, joined their fight. During the bloody battles, Liu Xiu and Yin faced death many times together before the Xin empire was finally toppled. In 23, Liu Yan was seen by the new Han emperor Liu Xuan as a threat and killed. Fearing he would be next, Liu Xiu, with the help of his new bride Yin, managed to have Liu Xuan assign him to a territory beyond Liu Xuan's reach. However, developing a power base of his own proved difficult. In 24, Liu Xiu encountered a dilemma: in order to enter a military alliance with a mighty regional warlord, he needed to marry the warlord's niece Guo Shengtong and break his vows to Yin. Meanwhile, Yin discovered that Liu Xuan also had feelings for her. When Yin finally reunited with her husband in 25, Liu Xiu was already the new emperor who had just captured the capital; with Guo, a woman he did not love, as his new wife. As the empire remained divided, naming Guo the empress seemed the ideal choice politically, but Liu Xiu's heart never left Yin. Amid power struggle, war, and intrigues, could their love survive?\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57873483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57873483", "title": "Stephen Norrington's unrealized projects", "text": "Stephen Norrington's unrealized projects\n\nThe following is a list of unproduced Stephen Norrington projects in roughly chronological order. During a career that has spanned over 20 years, Stephen Norrington has worked on projects which never progressed beyond the pre-production stage under his direction. Many of the films were produced after he left production.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30536834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30536834", "title": "Stowarzyszenie Pisarzy Polskich", "text": "Stowarzyszenie Pisarzy Polskich\n\nThe Stowarzyszenie Pisarzy Polskich is a Polish Writers' Association, an organization of Polish writers, poets, playwrights, critics and translators. SPP, established in 1989 is a continuation of the Professional Union of Polish Writers, founded in 1920 on the initiative of Stefan Żeromski which was deactivated during World War II.\n\nThe foundation of the association was possible due to the historical and political transformations, which took place in 1989 in Poland. The majority of the most prominent and influential writers and former members of the Polish Writers' Union officially joined the organization, which was formed in 1984, and because of the decision of the communist authorities, remained illegal up until 1989. Czesław Miłosz became the first formal member of the new institution.\n\nThe headquarters of Stowarzyszenie Pisarzy Polskich is located in the House of Literature at Krakowskie Przedmieście 87/89 in Warsaw. At present, the association has got 11 major branches located in the following cities: Warsaw, Lublin, Katowice, Kraków, Wrocław, Szczecin, Gdańsk, Bydgoszcz, Łódź, Olsztyn and Poznań.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33304210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33304210", "title": "Studio of Artistic Design", "text": "Studio of Artistic Design\n\nThe Studio of Artistic Design () is an independent culture and education organization based in Moscow, Russia and founded in 1987. Its curriculum is directed towards creative thinking, spatial awareness, visual culture and visual perception, as well as various types of art in graphic design contexts.\n\nThe studio was set up by Russian artist Nikolay Selivanov in 1987 in Moscow's Children's Art School, and in 1993 they set up a computer studio. In 2003 the workshop was reorganized and there appeared an independent nonprofit organization called the Studio of Artistic Design. In 2008, an anniversary exhibition of the Workshop took place in Na Solyanke Art Gallery, one of Moscow's central exhibition halls, called \"Contemporary Art From Easel to Computer. The exhibition took place on all three floors of the gallery.\n\nThe studio cooperates with many organizations, museums and educational institutions, including the Russian Institute of Art Education under the Russian State Academy of Education and the UNESCO Institute for Information Technologies in Education.\n\n"}
{"id": "50764176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50764176", "title": "The African Doctor", "text": "The African Doctor\n\nThe African Doctor (original title: Bienvenue à Marly-Gomont) is a 2016 French comedy-drama film based on the life of the father of the musician Kamini, co-written by Kamini and directed by Julien Rambaldi. It stars Marc Zinga and Aïssa Maïga.\n\nSeyolo Zantoko has just completed his degree at a French medical school; he was the only African male in his class and circle of friends. After completing his medical degree, he turns down employment in Zaire as the personal physician to the president, Joseph-Desiré Mobutu, as he wishes to avoid the corruption associated with his country. Instead, he is hired by the mayor of a small village, Marly-Gomont in the north of France. He, his wife Anne and their two children, Sivi and Kamini, are disappointed to learn that they are living in a rural village, far from the excitement of Paris. His decision to live in France is mainly driven by the hope of a better education for his children, but he also hopes to apply for French citizenship. Seyolo and his family struggle to adapt to the new life as the locals - unfamiliar with African professionals - fear the newcomers, the children are bullied at school and Seyolo's practice struggles to survive, as the locals prefer to drive to the next village whenever they need a doctor, instead of being visited by a \"sorcerer\". Seyolo and Anne have a heated argument in front of relatives who have come for a visit, during which Seyolo reluctantly promises that they will eventually move to Brussels, where some of their relatives live. However, Seyolo and his family eventually win the villagers' trust, and his practice becomes a success after he delivers the baby of a local farmer.\n\nFollowing Seyolo's rise in reputation and popularity, he tells the mayor that he wants to stay in Marly-Gomont for the long term. The same evening, the mayor and his wife go to the Zantokos' house for dinner, and the mayor mentions his happiness that Seyolo is staying in the village. Anne is shocked and angry at this revelation, as Seyolo had promised that they would move to Brussels and had not told Anne that he had accepted the mayor's request to stay in Marly-Gomont. Anne leaves to stay in Brussels with the extended family, and the couple's relationship is in jeopardy.\n\nMeanwhile, in Marly-Gomont, Seyolo is arrested by the French police for immigration irregularities, days before his application for French citizenship is due to be approved, and he is forced to stop working. Anne eventually returns and agrees to stay with Seyolo in Marly-Gomont. The only hope for Seyolo and his family is that the current mayor be re-elected, although his opponent, Lavigne, is currently leading the polls and is determined to stop Seyolo from practising in the village, preferring instead to hire a doctor of French origin. However, Sivi is discovered to be a talented soccer player and wins the hearts of the community by single-handedly helping the local team to progress in the league. Seyolo and his children hatch a plan to show the villagers that if Lavigne wins the election, the family will have to leave Marly-Gomont. The villagers, upset at the prospect of losing their best soccer player, turn out to vote, and the incumbent mayor is re-elected. Finally, the children at the local school perform a play that re-enacts the arrival, and eventual acceptance, of Seyolo and his family, and they realise that they are loved by the whole community (except Lavigne, who leaves before the end of the show). Seyolo's practice reopens and the family remains in Marly-Gomont.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9590685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9590685", "title": "The Bad Mother's Handbook", "text": "The Bad Mother's Handbook\n\nThe Bad Mother's Handbook was a one-off television drama based on the best-selling novel \"The Bad Mother's Handbook\" by Kate Long. It was broadcast on ITV on 19 February 2007, starring Catherine Tate, Anne Reid, Holly Grainger and Robert Pattinson. According to BARB, the show received strong viewing figures of 6.09 million.\n\nThe Bad Mother’s Handbook depicts the story of one year in the lives of three women. In this television adaptation of Kate Long’s best selling novel, Catherine Tate plays Karen, who is a frustrated woman in her thirties whose whole life and identity are shattered when she discovers a long-kept secret. Holly Grainger plays Karen’s clever and hormonal teenage daughter Charlotte, while Anne Reid appears as Karen’s mother, Nan, who is suffering from Alzheimer’s. Robert Pattinson is also a supporting character as lovable yet nerdy, Daniel Gale. The movie presents an insight into the life of motherhood and childhood, dwelling on the themes that no two mothers are alike, but that ultimately love is the most important thing of all. All of this talks about true events that sometimes happens in the world.\n\nABC was developing a pilot known as Bad Mother's Handbook to star Alicia Silverstone, Megan Mullally and Alia Shawkat, but it was not picked up.\n\nThe British version, starring Catherine Tate, was released on 24 August 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "15634043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15634043", "title": "The Fiend", "text": "The Fiend\n\nThe Fiend is a Russian fairy tale.\n\nA young woman named Marusia goes to a feast where she meets a kind, handsome and apparently wealthy man. They fall in love with each other and Marusia agrees to marry him. She also consents to her mother's directive that she follow the boy to discover where he lives and more about him. She follows him to the church where she sees him eating a corpse. Later the fiend asks her if she saw him at the church. When Marusia denies having followed him, he tells her that her father will die the next day. Thereafter, he continually poses the question and with each denial he causes another of her family members to die. Finally he tells her that she herself will die. At this point Marusia asks her grandmother what to do. Her grandmother explains a way by which Marusia can come back to life after she dies (a condition of which is that she cannot enter a church afterwards). On coming back to life she meets a good man whom she marries, however he does not like the fact that she will not go to church and eventually forces her to do so. Thus the Fiend discovers that she is alive and kills her husband and her son, but with the help of her grandmother, the water of life, and holy water she brings them back and kills the fiend.\n\n"}
{"id": "7854229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7854229", "title": "Vexillography", "text": "Vexillography\n\nVexillography is the art and practice of designing flags; it is allied with vexillology, the scholarly study of flags, but is not synonymous with that discipline. A person who designs flags is a vexillographer.\n\nFlag designs exhibit a number of regularities, arising from a variety of practical concerns, historical circumstances, and cultural prescriptions that have shaped and continue to shape their evolution.\n\nVexillographers face the necessity for the design to be manufactured (and often mass-produced) into or onto a piece of cloth, which will subsequently be hoisted aloft in the outdoors to represent an organization, individual, idea, or group. In this respect, flag design departs considerably from logo design: logos are predominantly still images suitable for reading off a page, screen, or billboard; while flags are alternately draped and fluttering images - visible from a variety of distances and angles (including the reverse). The prevalence of simple bold colors and shapes in flag design attests to these practical issues.\n\nFlag design has a history, and new designs often refer back to previous designs, effectively quoting, elaborating, or commenting upon them. Families of current flags may derive from a few common ancestors - as in the cases of the Pan-African colours, the Pan-Arab colors, the Pan-Slavic colors, the Nordic Cross flag and the Ottoman flag.\n\nCertain cultures prescribe the proper design of their own flags, through heraldic or other authoritative systems. Prescription may be based on religious principles: see, for example, Islamic flags. Vexillographers have begun to articulate design principles, such as those jointly published by the North American Vexillological Association and the Flag Institute in their \"Guiding Principles of Flag Design,\" which provides the following basic principles:\n\n\n"}
