{"id": "39580391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39580391", "title": "Academic Health Science Networks", "text": "Academic Health Science Networks\n\nAcademic Health Science Networks (AHSNs) are membership organisations within the NHS in England. They were created in May 2013 with the aim of bringing together health services, and academic and industry members. Their stated purpose is to improve patient outcomes and generate economic benefits for the UK by promoting and encouraging the adoption of innovation in healthcare. It is too early to judge the extent to which they are effective in performing their role.\n\nA report in 2008 by Lord Ara Darzi noted that the NHS was poor at innovating, and suggested wider collaboration between industry, education and all aspects of healthcare. The NHS is one of the world's largest employers and with the UK's spending on healthcare at over £140b in 2010 or 9.6% of national GDP, it is a key component of the national economy. There is a generally recognised need to improve the NHS's ability to identify and adopt innovation.\n\nAHSNs were first proposed by name in the report Innovation Health and Wealth by Sir David Nicholson, Chief Executive of NHS England, and launched by the Prime Minister, David Cameron. A request for expressions of interest was issued in June 2012 and, on 23 May 2013, the 15 designated AHSNs were formally announced. They are regional, with non-overlapping territories covering the whole of England. \n\nAHSNs take their place in the \"fragmented cluttered and confusing\" landscape of NHS innovation. As part of the \"Sunset Review\" a number of initiatives closed in 2013 including the NHS National Innovation Centre, NHS Institute for Innovation and Improvement, and Health Innovation and Education Clusters (HIECs). There is still a range of currently active initiatives including NHS Innovation Hubs, NHS Supply Chain Innovation and NHS Improvement.\n\nCore funding will come from NHS England and work was \"in hand to identify the funding\" when expressions of interest were invited. A briefing paper assumed funding to be in the region of £2 per head of population served. With a population averaging 3m people, a typical AHSN might have expected roughly £6m per AHSN per year. These figures reflect early expectations but were neither clarified nor confirmed with the designation announcement.\n\nWhen contracts were signed with NHS England in November 2013, the 15 AHSNs shared around £60 million of funding.\n\nAlthough their purpose is clear, the structure and approach of individual AHSNs is a matter for local decision. This is apparent in the contrasting approaches taken and the variety of opinions expressed by network founders.\n\nAs membership organisations, AHSNs do not have any direct authority over their members, but Innovation Health and Wealth states: \"all NHS organisations will aspire to be affiliated to their local AHSN where the AHSN will operate as a gateway for the NHS on innovation and working with the life sciences industry on the evaluation, commercialisation and rapid adoption of health technologies\". They will be seen to be successful if and only if they can demonstrably improve the rate of adoption of medical technologies and ICTs.\n\nIn April 2014 it emerged that NHS England’s 2014-15 business plan, showed that AHSNs would receive £53.6m this financial year, a 5 per cent cut on last year’s budget. However, it represents a larger 23 per cent cut on the £70m NHS England announced in May 2013. A senior AHSN figure told the Health Service Journal that NHS England risked “castrating” the programme by cutting the budget and by a perceived lack of promotion in the networks. “They are trying to save a comparatively small amount of money [by cutting the budget] but in doing so they risk castrating the AHSNs.Commissioners are not going to sign up to us if they are thinking that we are not going to be around in two years’ time.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10425110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10425110", "title": "Advance corporation tax", "text": "Advance corporation tax\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the advance corporation tax (ACT) was part of a partial dividend imputation system introduced in 1973 under which companies were required to withhold tax on dividends before they were distributed to shareholders. The scheme was similar to the way banks were required to withhold an amount at a set rate on interest earned on bank deposits before it is paid to the account holder.\n\nIn general, this payment meant that the recipients of the dividend were considered to have already paid basic rate tax on the dividend income. Non-taxpayers, such as pension funds, who would not otherwise have paid income tax on the dividend income, became entitled to claim a refund of the ACT amount, or after 1993 a lesser amount. The refund of ACT for non-taxpayers was scrapped in 1997, but in 1999 ACT was itself scrapped, effectively making dividend income of non-taxpayers tax-free again.\n\nThe amount of ACT paid by a company could also be offset against the company's profits reducing its final corporation tax bill. ACT was scrapped in 1999.\n\nUntil 1973, company profits were taxed as profits, and dividend payments were then taxed as income. In 1973, a partial imputation system was introduced for dividend payments, under which companies were required to withhold tax on dividends, called an advance corporation tax, before they were distributed to shareholders. UK companies could set off the ACT amount withheld against the overall company tax liability, subject to certain limits. (The full amount of ACT paid could not be recovered if significantly large amounts of profits were distributed.) Shareholders of a UK company who received a dividend received a tax credit representing the ACT paid, which could be set off against their overall income tax liability. Non-taxable shareholders, such as pension funds, were entitled to a refund of the ACT amount.\n\nWhen introduced in 1973, the ACT rate on the gross dividend (the amount distributed plus the ACT withheld) was 30%, the basic rate of income tax at the time. Until 1993 the income tax rate payable on dividends was the same as all other income, and the ACT rate was adjusted to align it to changes in the basic rate of income tax. From April 1993, the ACT rate was cut to 22.5% while the tax rate on dividend income was set at 20%, the first time it was set at a different rate to that payable on other income (25%). The tax credit was tied to the 20% rate rather than the ACT rate of 22.5%, meaning that non-taxpayers could no longer claim a refund for the full amount that had previously been paid as ACT. The ACT rate was cut to 20% from April 1994.\n\nIn 1997, the tax credit was scrapped for non-taxpayers (except charities and PEPs), which had a particular impact on pension funds, which could no longer claim a refund for any amount that had previously been paid as ACT. The effect of the change was that pension funds became effectively taxed on dividend income by way of the now non-refundable ACT, thus lowering pension returns and allegedly resulting in the winding up of some pension funds. Treasury argued that the change was crucial to long-term economic growth: the existing corporation tax system created biased incentives for corporations to pay out profits as dividends to shareholders (including pension funds, who could then reclaim the tax paid) rather than to reinvest them into company growth (which would result in corporation tax being paid). The old system of corporation tax was widely viewed by economists as a constraint on British economic growth. \"The Times\" obtained documents under the Freedom of Information Act in April 2007 that showed the chancellor Gordon Brown had been advised that pension funds would suffer a £67 billion loss of the actuarial value of their assets as a net result of a combination of policies including the ACT change.\n\nACT was scrapped from 6 April 1999, and replaced by a tax credit on dividend income of 10%. From 6 April 2016, the tax credit was itself abolished and replaced with a tax-free dividend allowance of £5,000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38908034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38908034", "title": "Anne Clausdatter", "text": "Anne Clausdatter\n\nAnne Clausdatter, also known as Anne Arnold and \"Anna Clausdatter\" (born 5 June 1659 in Skien, died 11 April 1713 at Borgestad Manor) was a Norwegian businesswoman and owner of Borgestad Manor in Skien, one of the largest estates of Bratsberg. Today, she is remembered i.a. as the title character of the poem \"Stolt Anne\" (\"ca.\" 1700) by Hans Paus, who was married to her first cousin. The poem portrays her as a generous person who was well liked by the population of Telemark. The poem is also notable for being the first written in dialect in Norway, and 12 verses were included in \"Norske Folkeviser\" (1853) by Magnus Brostrup Landstad.\n\nAnne Clausdatter was descended from the leading land owners and timber merchants of the Grenland area, and was married first to Stig Andersen Tønsberg (died 1690), and then to General Johan Arnold (died 1709)\n\n"}
{"id": "13927899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13927899", "title": "Associate company", "text": "Associate company\n\nAn associate company (or associate) in accounting and business valuation is a company in which another company owns a significant portion of voting shares, usually 20–50%. In this case, an owner does not consolidate the associate's financial statements. Ownership of over 50% creates a subsidiary, with its financial statements being consolidated into the parent's books. Associate value is reported in the balance sheet as an asset, the investor's proportional share of the associate's income is reported in the income statement and dividends from the ownership decrease the value on the balance sheet. In Europe, investments into associate companies are called fixed financial assets.\n\nAssociate value in the enterprise value equation is the reciprocate of minority interest.\n\nUnder the UK Companies Act 2006, two companies are \"associated\" if one company is a subsidiary of the other or both are subsidiaries of the same body corporate.\n\n"}
{"id": "16333816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16333816", "title": "Ausbuy", "text": "Ausbuy\n\nThe Australian Companies Institute (Ausbuy) was, until 2016, a non-profit, non-political organisation that encouraged Australians to support Australian-owned and Australian-made products and services. Their goal was to keep the jobs and profits in Australia and for the decisions to be made by Australians.\n\nDue to a downturn in membership renewals and increased costs, the company went into voluntary administration and was wound-up in 2016. The ownership of the Ausbuy logos, business name and trademarks were transferred to the Australian Made Campaign Ltd.\n\nAusbuy's main tasks involved communication at many levels as follows:\n\n\nAfter World War II Australia faced the problem of having an underdeveloped manufacturing base, which left it dependent on overseas supplies. There was a realisation that this situation, combined with Australia's geographic isolation, made it vulnerable. This led to the decision being made to build up manufacturing capability. The aftermath of war provided opportunities to recruit skilled workers from Europe and Australia was able to establish capacity behind the protection of a tariff wall. It became obvious that this wall had to be reduced but the rate of reduction ran well ahead of Australia's increasing ability to compete in a global market. \n\nAustralia adopted policies of economic liberalisation and micro-economic reform in the early 1980s, including the privatisation of government corporations, deregulation of factor markets, floating of the Australian dollar, and the reduction of trade protection. Justifications for reducing trade tariffs included the portrayal of Australia as a good global citizen and, at the same time, reducing inflationary pressures. The costs have been high: Australia's foreign debt has risen extremely quickly, factories have closed and well-paid skilled jobs in factories have been replaced by unskilled jobs in the service industries.\nAustralia has effectively exported jobs overseas and its foreign debt exceeds A$600 billion and is growing. Australia simply does not produce more than it uses. The country has been living on borrowed time, and Australians have stopped talking about productivity and value adding. For example, Australia exports raw materials and its unique fine wool, but then imports them back at a higher value. Free trade agreements have been signed by Australia, which further expose what manufacturers it has left, and then Australian governments bolster strategic industries to save jobs.\n\nAustralia is recognised as an innovative and productive country, and it needs local governments and consumers to appreciate and support what is unique to this country. The international trend of globalisation has been matched domestically with the rise of the mega store concept of retailing. Large supermarkets as well as warehouses have their selling policies based on \"anytime, everywhere, everything the same\", which means their procurement policies are centrally driven; they demand bulk orders from specific price competitive producers and farmers nor do these retail giants acknowledge local peculiarities and set a priority on \"Made in Australia\".\n\nIn its magazine \"Choice\" of January 1987 the Australian Consumers' Association advised consumers to \"Buy Australian\" when the quality was equal and the price comparable to imported products. Nevertheless, it is notable given that \"Choice\" is well regarded as an impartial source of information for Australian consumers, but the Australian Consumers' Association refused to make a commitment to favour an Australian product over a better product from overseas. \n\nThis could be classified as a typical means of moral suasion, which can be seen as benevolent compulsion, or making others conform without enforcing rules directly. It is also termed simply \"suasion\" (in Japan it is known as \"window guidance\") which has been used to persuade consumers and institutions to keep to official guidelines. The \"moral aspect\" stems from pressing on the targets of the suasion their \"moral responsibility\" to operate in a way that is consistent with furthering the national good. In the United States it is known as jawboning - it means exercising the persuasive power of talk rather than legislation. \n\nIn countries experiencing economic decline, especially those with a high unemployment level and trade deficit, consumers are urged to buy locally made products to help create jobs, assist in defeating unemployment and to avoid import penetration. Sometimes it is a so-called \"war against unemployment\" where policy makers like to raise an appeal to patriotic behaviour, shifting the responsibility of employment and the level of high import penetration towards consumers. Ultimately a successful moral suasion campaign which reduces import penetration significantly can be seen as a tax on imports with the potential to increase unemployment in the import sector as a result of decreasing demand for imports.\n\nThe lower supply of the Australian dollar may cause it to be of higher value in the foreign exchange markets, which obviously leads to a tax on exports, or consequently employment of Australians by Australian manufacturers producing goods for overseas markets will reduce. Furthermore, given that consumers are shifting their demand for consumer goods to domestic products, it still remains a dilemma whether the retailers and manufacturers of domestic products invest in Australian business operations. Or in other words, which authority controls that the profits remain in Australia?\n\nAusbuy was founded in 1991 by Harry Wallace as a result of his family business of 120 years being lost to foreign imports deposited in Australia to gain market share. His company was only one example of this, as an increasing number of companies in Australia had been forced to sell out to foreign interests, and foreign governments subsidised their producers to sell cheaply into the Australian market in competition with Australian-owned companies who do not enjoy that level of government support.\n\nBy 2007, Ausbuy had approximately 100 members, producing more than 3000 products across 150 categories. During the 2009 Truth in Labelling Senate Inquiry, Ausbuy was the only large representative organisation that asked for Country of Origin to be required on labelling used by food producers, manufacturers and distributors.\n\nAusbuy presented a petition of over 55,000 signatures to the Federal Government in November 2012 asking for a moratorium on the sale of Australian land and wealth-creating assets until the establishment a national interest test.\n\nOn 26 May 2016, the Board of Directors decided to undertake voluntary winding up of the company. As a result of a number of factors including changes to country of origin labeling, downturn in membership renewals, increased one off costs associated with company structure, compliance and technology, Ausbuy was no longer able to continue as a going concern. Despite a wide range of activities and strategies designed to retain and grow membership over the previous 18 months, the organisation had continued its decline to a point where a voluntary winding up of the company was the only prudent option.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "212120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=212120", "title": "Bechtel", "text": "Bechtel\n\nBechtel Corporation ) is an engineering, procurement, construction, and project management company. It is the largest construction company in the United States and the 8th-largest privately owned American company in 2017. Its headquarters are in the South of Market, San Francisco.\n\nBechtel's business activities began in 1898 when cattle farmer Warren A. Bechtel moved from Peabody, Kansas, to the Oklahoma Territory to construct railroads with his own team of mules. Bechtel moved his family frequently between construction sites around the western United States for the next several years, eventually moving to Oakland, California in 1904, where he worked as the superintendent on the Western Pacific Railroad. In 1906, W. A. Bechtel won his first subcontract to build part of the Oroville-to-Oakland section of the Western Pacific Railroad. That same year, he bought his own steam shovel, becoming a pioneer of the new technology. He painted \"W.A. Bechtel Co.\" on the side of the steam shovel, effectively establishing Bechtel as a company, though it was not yet incorporated. Bechtel completed work on a series of railroad contracts during the early 1900s, culminating in an extension of the Northwestern Pacific Railroad finished in 1914.\n\nStarting with the construction of Klamath River Highway in California in 1919, Bechtel ventured into jobs outside of building railroads. The company built roads, bridges, and highways throughout the western United States. The company worked on its first hydroelectric projects in the 1920s for Pacific Gas and Electric Company in California.\n\nIn 1925, Warren, his sons Warren Jr, Stephen, Kenneth (Ken), and his brother Arthur (Art) joined him to incorporate as \"W.A. Bechtel Company\", which by this time was the leading construction company in the western United States. In 1929, Warren's son, Stephen, urged his father to take on the company's first pipeline project. Bechtel began working with California Standard Oil Company to build pipelines and refineries.\n\nIn January 1931, Bechtel joined other contractors in the west to form Six Companies, Inc., a consortium created to bid for a contract from the US government to construct the Hoover Dam. Six Companies won the bid in March and construction on the dam began in the summer of 1931.\n\nWarren Bechtel died unexpectedly in 1933 while in Moscow on business. He was succeeded by his son, Stephen Bechtel, Sr., who became both the head of Bechtel and chief executive of the Hoover Dam project. Under his leadership, the Hoover Dam was finished in 1935. The project was the largest of its kind in US history at the time and Bechtel's first megaproject.\n\nDuring World War II, the United States Maritime Commission invited the company to bid for a contract to build half of their order of 60 cargo ships. The company had no prior experience in shipbuilding, but bid for the entire 60 ships. Between 1941 and 1945, Bechtel's wartime shipyards, including Marinship and Calship, built 560 vessels. Bechtel also worked on a pipeline from the Yukon to Alaska called Canol for the United States Department of War during this time period.\n\nUnder Stephen Bechtel, Sr., the company diversified its projects and expanded its work into other countries. The company also focused on turnkey projects, a concept Stephen Bechtel, Sr. pioneered, in which Bechtel handled a project from planning and design through construction.\n\nBechtel’s first job outside the US was building the Mene Grande pipeline in Venezuela in 1940. In 1947, Bechtel began construction on what was then the world's longest oil pipeline, the Trans-Arabian Pipeline, which began in Saudi Arabia, ran across Jordan and Syria, and ended in Lebanon. The company continued to expand globally throughout the 1940s, particularly in the Middle East.\n\nIn 1949, Bechtel began working with nuclear power after being contracted to build the Experimental Breeder Reactor I in Idaho. The company later built the United States' first privately financed commercial nuclear power plant, the Dresden Generating Station, for Commonwealth Edison in Illinois in 1957.\n\nOther major projects in the 1950s included the Trans Mountain Pipeline in 1952, an oil pipeline in Canada, and a preliminary study for the English Channel in 1959. Bechtel also began engineering work on the Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) system in 1959.\n\nStephen D. Bechtel, Jr. took over for his father as president of the company as Stephen Bechtel, Sr. retired in 1960. During the 1960s and 1970s, Bechtel was involved in constructing 40 percent of the nuclear plants in the United States. In 1968, the company completed the largest nuclear plant in the US at the time, the San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station, in California.\nIn 1972, Bechtel was involved in approximately 20 percent of all of the United States' new power-generating capacity. By the end of the decade, the company had moved from nuclear power construction toward nuclear cleanup projects, including Three Mile Island in 1979.\n\nBechtel completed work on other megaprojects during the 1970s, including major airports in Saudi Arabia and the metro rail in Washington, D.C. In 1976, the company began work on the industrial city of Jubail in Saudi Arabia. The company's multiple construction contracts helped to transform the area from a small village to a city with a population of over a quarter of a million people.\n\nIn the 1980s, Bechtel handled the project management of the 1984 Los Angeles Summer Olympics. The company also built the Ankara-Gerede Motorway in Turkey as part of the network of roadways linking Europe and Asia in 1986.\n\nIn 1987, Bechtel was awarded a contract for project management services of an undersea tunnel linking the UK and France called the Channel Tunnel or \"Chunnel.\" The tunnel was completed in 1994.\n\nThe recession of the 1980s turned the company’s focus toward new areas of growth including environmental cleanup and alternative energy projects. In 1989 Riley P. Bechtel was named president of the company.\n\nIn 1991, Bechtel, in a joint venture with Parsons Brinckerhoff, broke ground on Boston's Central Artery/Tunnel Project or \"Big Dig,\" a project the company had been in charge of since 1986. The Big Dig was, at the time, the largest and most complex urban transportation project ever undertaken in the United States. The 20-year project was critiqued for rising costs and an increasing scope of work, as the Big Dig became more complex than was originally estimated. Criticism of the project increased in 2005 when a leak sprang in one of the new tunnels. In the summer of 2006, a faulty tunnel ceiling panel collapsed, killing a motorist. Litigation ensued, and in January 2008, Bechtel settled with federal and state officials for $352 million with other contractors involved paying smaller amounts.\n\nAs a result of the Gulf war, Bechtel took on the task of extinguishing oil well fires in Kuwait in 1991. This was part of the overall effort to rebuild the infrastructure of Kuwait.\n\nIn 1994, Bechtel began work on the US$20 billion Hong Kong Airport Core Programme, which was the largest civil engineering project at the time and included a new airport and nine other infrastructure projects. Bechtel's other major projects during the 1990s included the Athens Metro system, the Atlantic LNG in Trinidad, the Croatian Motorway, the Jubilee Line Extension for the London Underground, Quezon Power Plant in the Philippines, and a semiconductor plant in China. Bechtel also managed design and construction of facilities for Olympic games: the 1992 Barcelona Summer Olympics, and the Winter games in Nagano, Japan in 1998. In the early 2000s, the company provided planning and management services for the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City. In 2001, Bechtel was part of a consortium to project manage the US$4.3 billion construction of the CSPC Nanhai Petrochemicals Complex in China.\n\nSeveral projects in the 2000s attracted controversy. In 2000, after a protest against water prices being raised by a utility partially owned by Bechtel in Bolivia, the company pulled out of the country and later filed suit against Bolivia for $25 million in losses. The claim was settled in 2006 for $0.30.\n\nIn 2001, Bechtel began work on the Hanford Tank Waste Treatment and Immobilization Plant at the Hanford site in Washington state. The project is a highly complex plant for the treatment of radioactive liquid waste that has employed new technologies and construction techniques that are the first of their kind. As of 2013, it is considered the most complex project in the United States. Management of the project has been the subject of controversy including Department of Energy's Inspector General reports and Government Accountability Office studies regarding rising costs, nuclear safety and quality, and whistleblower allegations. For example, in 2013 the DOE Inspector General concluded that \"Bechtel determined that there was a systemic problem and a breakdown in controls over the review of design changes\", but that the company had taken steps to correct the problems.\n\nIn 2003, Bechtel won a $680 million contract to begin rebuilding infrastructure in Iraq for U.S. Agency for International Development. The contract led to the company being accused of both non-competitive bidding and war profiteering. Bechtel won a competitively-bid second contract in January 2004, and completed 97 of 99 task orders of the contract, returning the two remaining projects due to the escalating security concerns in the country.\n\nFollowing Hurricane Katrina in 2005, Bechtel was one of four companies hired by FEMA to build temporary housing. Bechtel delivered over 35,000 trailers in under a year for displaced residents in Mississippi, though the company was criticized by officials and in the media for the cost and quality of work.\n\nIn 2007, Bechtel began work on the Romanian A3 motorway (Autostrada Transilvania) and Albanian motorways. Bechtel and the Romanian National Roads Authority jointly agreed on a settlement to end the contract for works on the Autostrada Transilvania in 2013. The Albanian Motorway was opened to traffic in 2010 on schedule.\n\nOther major projects at the end of the 2000s included the Tacoma Narrows Bridge in Washington state, Jamnagar Refinery expansion in India, Equatorial GuineaLNG, and Oak Creek Power Plant in Wisconsin.\n\nBechtel's major operational locations are in Brisbane, Calgary, Dubai, Houston, London, New Delhi, Reston, Virginia, San Francisco, Santiago, Shanghai, Nairobi, Taipei, and Washington, D.C.\n\nThe company's main headquarters are located at its San Francisco office, while the Reston office houses the company's global operational headquarters, as well as the headquarters of the Nuclear, Security & Environmental global business unit and the North American offices of the Infrastructure global business unit. The company's Oil, Gas & Chemicals unit is based in the Houston office. The Washington office maintains both a Political Action Committee and a lobbying program.\n\nOutside of North America, the Infrastructure unit’s headquarters is located at the company’s London office. The Mining & Metals unit is headquartered at the company’s Brisbane office and also maintains operations in Santiago and Dubai. In 2013, the company established its global center of engineering excellence in Dubai focusing on rail and marine projects. It established innovation centers in Houston and London in 2015 to test new technology.\n\nBechtel works on global megaprojects through its four business units. The company frequently manages work from design through construction phases. Its corporate values include safety, quality, and ethics.\n\nBechtel was the presenting sponsor of \"Dream Big: Engineering Our World,\" a 42-minute IMAX documentary produced by MacGillivray Freeman Films in partnership with American Society of Civil Engineers. The documentary seeks to inspire young people to pursue engineering careers.\n\nBechtel opened its welding and applied technology center in 2017 in the Houston Energy Corridor to train welding and construction workers. The center also provides virtual training and augmented reality to train workers.\n\nThe Infrastructure unit handles transportation, fossil and renewable power, transmission, communications, ports, and hydroelectric facilities. Transportation projects include highways, bridges, rail, and aviation facilities. Bechtel has built more than of roadway, 390 power plants, 50 hydroelectric plants, as well as 20 towns and cities globally. It has worked on 300 subway and rail projects, 80 port and harbor projects, and 96 major airport projects.\n\nBechtel's Infrastructure unit is leading a consortium in the engineering, procurement and construction of lines One and Two of the Riyadh, Saudi Arabia metro, which began construction in April 2014. In July 2014, Bechtel was selected to build a new 37-mile motorway linking Kosovo's capital, Pristina, to Macedonia.\n\nBechtel is also participating in the building of London's Crossrail, a $24 billion project that will connect commuter towns east and west of London and is intended to serve an estimated 200 million people a year upon completion. As of June 2015, the project is 65% complete.\n\nIn 2016, Bechtel began construction on the first phase of the Edmonton Valley Line Light Rail Transit project in Alberta, Canada, the first public–private partnership (P3) business group. The company is also involved in several ongoing projects as of 2016, including building national infrastructure in Gabon and supporting the continuous development of Jubail industrial city in Saudi Arabia. Bechtel has worked at Jubail for more than 40 years, and was granted a five-year extension on both projects June 2016.\n\nIn February 2017, Bechtel was chosen to support setting up and operating Saudi Arabia's National Project Management Office. In May 2017, Bechtel was appointed the delivery management partner for the tunnels and stations excavation package of Stage 2 of the Sydney Metro project. Considered Australia's largest public infrastructure project, the work includes new twin rail tunnels under Sydney Harbor. Bechtel won the contract in August 2017 to design and build a 473-kilometer highway with 19 interchanges linking Nairobi, Kenya's capital, to Mombasa, Kenya's main port. The first section is targeted to open in October 2019 and the entire length of the highway is scheduled to be complete in 2024.\n\nAs of March 2018, Bechtel's work on Panda Power Funds' Hummel Station Power Plant in Pennsylvania was nearly complete. Bechtel is also working on a project for Advanced Power, the Cricket Valley Energy Center in New York. Bechtel is also building the Keeyask Generating Station, a hydroelectric power plant for Manitoba Hydro in Manitoba, Canada. The Infrastructure unit had also worked on projects for Google Fiber in several markets in the Southeastern U.S.\n\nAmong completed projects, Bechtel finished a four-lane motorway in Kosovo a year ahead of schedule in November 2013. The unit completed the Catalina Solar photovoltaic generating facility and the construction of the California Valley Solar Ranch in 2013. Bechtel also completed the Hanna Region Transmission Development, a power transmission project in Canada, which included 1,200 new transmission towers and of transmission lines in 2013. Bechtel completed Phase I of an extension of the Dulles Corridor Metrorail in Northern Virginia and completed the Hamad International Airport in Doha, Qatar in 2014. Bechtel also completed the world's largest solar thermal project, the Ivanpah Solar Electric Generating System in California, which began producing power in February 2014.\n\nIn 2015, Bechtel began work as project manager of the Toronto-York Spadina subway extension for the Toronto Transit Commission. The project was completed in 2017. Bechtel completed construction of the Stonewall Energy Facility in May 2017. The 778 megawatt natural gas-fired power plant supplies electricity to 778,000 homes in northern Virginia and the Washington, D.C., metro area. Bechtel's work on the Carroll County Energy Facility in Ohio for Advanced Power was also completed in 2017. In 2018, the unit completed a new air passenger terminal in Muscat, Oman.\n\nThe Mining & Metals (M&M) unit works on projects related to the mining and production of materials such as aluminum, coal, copper, iron ore, alumina and other metals and minerals. The unit operates on six continents and has completed hundreds of major mining projects as well as more than 1,000 mining studies. It has also finished 42 major copper projects, 30 aluminum smelters, 15 major coal projects, and eight alumina refinery projects.\nIn 2013, the unit completed construction of Saudi Arabia's first aluminum smelter in Ras Al-Khair, the Daunia coal mine in Queensland, Australia, and the expansion of the Kooragang Coal Terminal in Port Waratah in Australia, increasing capacity to 145 million tonnes per annum (Mtpa). \nIn 2014, M&M completed the Caval Ridge coal mine in Queensland, and began operations at Escondida’s OLAP copper cathode project, which consisted of a new dynamic leaching pad and a mineral handling system.\nIn 2015, the unit completed the Las Bambas copper concentrator in Peru for MMG, the Kitimat aluminum smelter in Canada for Rio Tinto Group., and the Escondida Organic Growth Project 1 (OGP1), the largest single-line copper concentrator ever built. M&M also completed a third berth for the BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance (BMA) at Hay Point Coal Terminal in Queensland, Australia, which increased export capacity from the existing 44 Mtpa to 55 Mtpa.\nBechtel began building the Al Taweelah alumina refinery (formerly Shaheen) in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates for Emirates Global Aluminium (EGA) in 2015.\n\nIn April 2016, Aluminium Bahrain (Alba) announced that Bechtel had been appointed engineering, procurement, and construction management (EPCM) contractor for the company’s Line 6 Expansion Project. The initiative will make Alba the world’s largest single-site aluminum smelter upon completion, boosting production to 1.5 Mtpa. That same month, Rio Tinto announced that Kitimat had reached full production levels of 420,000 tpa, while Las Bambas achieved commercial production in July 2016. As of 2016, Bechtel is advancing the Amrun bauxite initiative for Rio Tinto in Australia, which announced project approval in November 2015.\n\nBechtel completed the engineering, procurement, and construction of a water system and desalination plant for the Escondida copper mine in Chile in 2018. The Bechtel-Techint joint venture team built a dual 112-mile-long pipeline to carry desalinated water from the Pacific Coast across the Atacama Desert to the Escondida copper mine approximately 10,000 feet above sea level in the Andes.\n\nThe Oil, Gas & Chemicals unit designs and builds liquefied natural gas (LNG), oil, pipeline, petrochemicals, and natural gas facilities. Since the company's founding, it has built approximately of pipeline systems, more than 50 major oil and gas field developments, and completed over 380 major chemical and petrochemical projects. The unit also constructs and tests tanks for LNG storage. Bechtel is overseeing a third of the world’s LNG liquefaction capacity under construction.\n\nBetween 2011 and 2016, the unit built three LNG plants on Curtis Island in Queensland, Australia. It completed the first of six trains in December 2014. The complex was named a 2016 Global Best Project by \"Engineering News-Record\" in the category of \"Power/Industrial\" and a Construction Project of the Year by S&P Global Platts. The unit is also constructing the Wheatstone project, a two-train LNG plant that is one of Australia's largest energy resource efforts. , the first train has been completed and the second train is 90 percent complete.\n\nBechtel is responsible for the engineering, procurement and construction of five LNG trains for the Sabine Pass Liquefaction project in Louisiana. The initial cargo from the first completed train was delivered in 2016. Bechtel \"substantially completed\" its work for Cheniere Energy Partners LP on Train 4 of the Sabine Pass liquefaction project in Cameron Parish, Louisiana. As of 2016, the unit has completed approximately 36% of an LNG project in Corpus Christi, Texas, which includes three LNG trains, three LNG storage tanks, and two berths. In 2016, Bechtel completed roof raises on two tanks at a liquefaction plant in Corpus Christi, Texas, for Cheniere.\n\nIn May 2013, the unit was awarded a contract for the front-end engineering design of the Pacific NorthWest LNG in Vancouver, BC. In March 2014, the unit was awarded a contract to construct facilities in Georgia for the Shah Deniz II gas field in Azerbaijan. In August 2015, Bechtel was contracted by Delfin LNG, to provide front-end engineering and design for a planned floating LNG vessel at Port Delfin off the coastline of Louisiana, which would be the first in the U.S. Also in 2015, the unit was awarded a contract to manage the engineering, procurement, and construction of 12 new natural-gas pipelines in Thailand.\n\nThe company was part of a consortium selected by PTT GC America in 2015 to provide front-end engineering and design for a new petrochemical complex in Belmont County, Ohio. It is also the lead contractor for a Shell petrochemical plant in Beaver County, Pennsylvania.\n\nBechtel's technology was licensed for facility upgrades at the Rijeka Refinery in Croatia in February 2014. In 2016, the unit was contracted by the Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation to design an upgrade to the coker unit at the Assiut refinery in Egypt using its ThruPlus technology. Also in 2016, it was awarded a contract to upgrade a refinery in Beaumont, Texas for ExxonMobil, using ExxonMobil's proprietary SCANfining technology.\n\nIn late 2017, the unit was selected to design and build Tellurian’s Driftwood LNG project, a proposed liquefied gas facility in Louisiana. In January 2018, the unit was awarded a front-end engineering design contract for Abu Dhabi National Oil Company’s planned offshore ultra-sour gas mega project located in the north western area of Abu Dhabi.\n\nThe Nuclear, Security & Environmental unit handles the company’s government work and commercial nuclear businesses. The unit supports U.S. and international governmental organizations including the U.S. Departments of Defense and Energy. Since the 1950s, Bechtel has designed, serviced, or delivered 80 percent of all nuclear plants in the U.S.\n\nAs of 2017, Bechtel leads or is a member of a consortium that manages two national laboratories and a number of national security-related facilities in the U.S., including: the Los Alamos National Laboratory, the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, and the combined operations of the Y-12 National Security Complex and the Pantex Plant. Bechtel has won numerous sustainability awards for its work with these facilities, including thirteen since 2016.\n\nBechtel has been contracted to manage the United States Navy's nuclear propulsion research facilities since 2011. In June 2013 the unit completed design and construction on a U.S. Missile Defense Agency project at Fort Greely, Alaska, which included three missile fields and forty silos. In 2014 the U.K. Ministry of Defence selected Bechtel to support the Royal Navy and Air Force on procurement and managed support services. Additionally, in 2016, Bechtel began providing testing and operations for the Arnold Engineering Development Complex at the Arnold Air Force Base in Tennessee.\n\nOther government work includes the construction of the facilities to treat the liquid radioactive waste stored underground at the Department of Energy's Hanford nuclear waste site in Washington. Bechtel and AECOM made an agreement in 2016 to pay $125 million to settle claims by the U.S. Department of Justice that the companies used subpar work while building a nuclear waste treatment facility at the Hanford Nuclear Reservation in Washington state, in addition to allegedly using public funds for lobbying. The companies did not admit wrongdoing; they said they settled to avoid long, costly litigation. In late 2017, Bechtel completed the assembly of two nuclear waste melters, each at 300 tons. The melters are the largest of their kind ever built in the United States.\n\nThe unit also manages U.S. Department of Defense contracts to dismantle and dispose of stored chemical weapons, including decades-old mustard and nerve gas from World War II. It completed the construction of the Blue Grass Chemical Agent-Destruction Pilot Plant as part of this work in 2015. Since May 2012, Bechtel has been part of a consortium completing the Chernobyl New Safe Confinement, a structure that will safely confine the damaged Chernobyl Nuclear Reactor Number 4. Bechtel continues to oversee the operation. In November 2016, the team slid a massive containment arch to cover the damaged nuclear reactor and contain radioactive material.\n\nIn 2016, Bechtel completed work on Tennessee Valley Authority's Watts Bar 2 nuclear reactor. In May 2016, a joint venture including Bechtel won a contract to conduct front-end engineering and design for the eventual construction of Wylfa Newydd, a nuclear power station in Wales for Horizon Nuclear Power.\n\nIn August 2017, Bechtel took over as the lead contractor to complete construction at Georgia Power's Plant Vogtle. Bechtel was awarded the contract and took over day-to-day construction of Plant Vogtle’s Units 3 and 4 after Westinghouse Electric, the designer and principal contractor for the two new reactors, filed for bankruptcy.\n\nAs of 2018, Bechtel is building the Uranium Processing Facility at the Y-12 National Security Complex in Tennessee. The $6.5 billion project is part of the National Nuclear Security Administration program to replace aging, Cold War-era facilities that service, refresh, and replace the uranium stages of nuclear warheads.\n\nBrendan Bechtel is CEO and Chairman and is the fifth generation of the Bechtel family to lead the company. Jack Futcher is president and chief operating officer. Peter Dawson has been chief financial officer since 2014.\n\nSeveral high-ranking Bechtel executives at times held important positions in the United States government. Notably, Reagan's cabinet had two former Bechtel executives: Caspar Weinberger and George Shultz, serving as Secretary of Defense and Secretary of State respectively.\n\nIn 2017, Bechtel ranked eighth on \"Forbes'\" list of America's Largest Private Companies by revenue, and it was ranked 7th on \"Fortune's\" list of the 25 Most Important Private Companies. It has been named the top U.S. Contractor by revenue by \"Engineering News-Record\" for 20 years in a row and ranked fifth on the publication's Top 250 International Contractors list by revenue for 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5900062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5900062", "title": "Brewers' Distributor", "text": "Brewers' Distributor\n\nBrewers' Distributor Ltd. or BDL is a Canadian company that distributes beer throughout the four western provinces and three northern territories. It is a private joint venture company owned by InBev (parent company of Labatt Breweries) and Molson-Coors (parent company of Molson Breweries following the Molson-Coors merger).\n\nThe company was established in 1995 when Pacific Brewers Distributor in British Columbia, Alberta Brewers Agents, Saskatchewan Brewers Association and Associated Beer Distributors in Manitoba (all of which were owned, or largely, owned by the two present shareholders) were consolidated into a single operation. BDL operates nine distribution centres and four cross dock facilities in Alberta, British Columbia, Manitoba and Saskatchewan. The head office is located in Calgary.\n\nThere are a few key differences between BDL and Brewers Retail Inc. which operates under largely the same ownership in the neighboring province of Ontario. First, BDL does not retail beer to consumers, it is only in the warehousing and distribution business. Second, although BDL distributes the vast majority of beer sold in Western Canada, it has not been granted monopolistic privileges by any provincial government. Other domestic breweries are free to distribute their own beer if they wish – some non-shareholders (such as the Big Rock and Sleeman Breweries) have their own distribution chains although others voluntarily use BDL. Third, BDL has been permitted to distribute some brands of imported beer since 2001 except in Alberta where the Alberta Gaming and Liquor Commission had already contracted out its entire distribution operation to a private company and continues to grant Connect Logistics Inc. the exclusive right to distribute imported beer to Alberta's privately owned establishments and stores. BRI stocks imported beer in its The Beer Store locations but this beer is purchased through the Liquor Control Board of Ontario.\n\nBDL does not distribute wine or distilled spirits in any province. These are distributed in Alberta by the AGLC through its private contractor, and in the other western provinces and territories by their respective government-owned liquor corporations.\n\n"}
{"id": "23614802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23614802", "title": "Charles J. Biddle (aviator)", "text": "Charles J. Biddle (aviator)\n\nMajor Charles John Biddle (13 May 1890 – 22 March 1972) was an American aviator, attorney, and author. He was a flying ace during World War I. Postwar, he launched a career in law and wrote his memoirs.\n\nCharles John Biddle was born on 13 May 1890 at Andalusia, the Biddle family estate near Philadelphia.\nHis father was Charles Biddle (1857–1923) and mother was Letitia Glenn. His grandfather Charles John Biddle (1819–1873) was a soldier in the Union Army and subsequently a member of the United States House of Representatives. Andalusia was the estate of his great-grandfather, banker Nicholas Biddle (1786–1844). He was an hereditary member of the Aztec Club of 1847.\n\nHe graduated from Princeton University in 1911, and from Harvard Law School three years later. He was admitted to the Pennsylvania Bar, but interrupted his nascent career to serve in World War I.\n\nBiddle joined the Lafayette Flying Corps in France on 8 April 1917. He was assigned to Escadrille 73 as a private on 28 July 1917, under the command and mentorship of Albert Deullin. He was promoted to corporal on 2 June and to sergeant on 1 December. Biddle initially fought several indecisive combats with a Spad VII, but success evaded him until 5 December 1917. Flying a SPAD XIII, he downed the Albatros two-seater of Leutnants Fritz Pauly and Ernst Sauter of FFA 45 despite a malfunction by both his Spad's machine guns.\n\nBiddle transferred to the American 103rd Aero Squadron on 10 January 1918 and was commissioned as a captain in the Aviation Section of the U.S. Army Signal Corps on 12 January 1918. He then and reverted to the Spad VII for his 12 April win over a Halberstadt CL.II over Corbeny. He moved on to the 13th Aero Squadron (nicknamed \"The Devil's Own Grim Reapers\").\n\nOn 1 August, he shared his first two victories with William Howard Stovall, John Seerly, and H. B. Freeman. He shot down three more enemy planes afterwards-his 5th official credit was a Rumpler CIV of Fliegerabteilung 46LB {pilot Eichler {POW} observer Gröschel {DOW} August 16, 1918. He was at one point entrusted with the only SPAD XII issued to Americans. He was promoted to the rank of major on 1 November and was given command of the 4th Pursuit Group. He returned to the United States on 19 December and was discharged from the Army on 25 January.\n\nIn recognition of his service, the French awarded him both the Legion of Honor and the \"Croix de Guerre\", and he received the American Distinguished Service Cross and the Belgian Order of Leopold II.\n\nAfter the war, Biddle wrote a book entitled \"The Way of the Eagle\".\n\nBiddle initially practiced law in the Drexel Building with his father's firm. Following his father's death, he joined the law firm of Drinker Biddle & Reath (not using that name at the time) in 1924. He was the firm's first lateral partner and brought clients that included the Philadelphia Contributionship for the Insurance of Houses from Loss by Fire (founded by Benjamin Franklin) and the Philadelphia Savings Fund Society. Biddle became a partner in 1925 and was a major force at the firm for decades. In the 1950s, he led the defense of Merck Sharp & Dohme in a major case concerning price-fixing. At a trial in Trenton, New Jersey, he argued successfully for Merck's acquittal with Thomas E. Dewey who represented Eli Lilly.\n\nBiddle also sued the U. S. government on behalf of three widows who lost their husbands in a B-29 Superfortress crash in 1948. This case was the first in which the government claimed national security privileges for its documents, as the B-29 was carrying out experiments with radar control of airborne drones. The case was settled without the government production of documents. In 2003, partner Wilson M. Brown III used a Charles Biddle precedent to reopen the case on behalf of the survivors of the scientists killed in a 1948 B-29 crash. The US government still claimed national security for its defense. The U. S. Supreme Court took the unprecedented step of examining its own prior decision of the case; the government claim was exposed as a fraudulent one used to cover up neglect in maintenance and poor air crew training as cause of the accident.\n\nHe died in 1972.\n\nDistinguished Service Cross (DSC) citation\n\nThe Distinguished Service Cross is presented to Charles John Biddle, Captain (Air Service), U.S. Army, for extraordinary heroism in action in the region of Damvillers, France, September 26, 1918. During an engagement between 11 Spads and 12 enemy Fokkers, Captain Biddle, perceiving a comrade in distress from the attack of two planes, dived upon them and by his fire forced them to withdraw. His prompt action saved the life of his comrade, who was in imminent danger of being shot to the ground. (General Orders No. 60, W.D., 1920)\nOrdre de Léopold citation\n\nFor extraordinary heroism in action on 12 April 1918 near Corbeny, France, and on 15 May 1918, near Ypres, Belgium. Captain Biddle has daily shown himself an excellent and remarkable example of courage, energy and skill, leading his pilots to the attack at every opportunity and making his flight a most efficient one. On 12 April, he attacked and destroyed an enemy two-seater which crashed between the trenches at Corbeny. On 15 May, while leading his patrol, he attacked, at very low altitude and far within the enemy lines, an enemy two-seater, killing the observer and forcing him down. A few minutes later he engaged a second enemy plane at very close range. Wounded in his leg, his plane and motor riddled, Captain Biddle was forced to land in 'No Man's Land' less than 70 yards from the German trenches in the region of Ypres. With remarkable courage and presence of mind and despite his wound, he detached himself from his smashed machine and made his way from shell hole under intense artillery, machine gun and rifle fire, to an advanced British Observation post.\nFrench Croix de Guerre citation, 4 June 1918\n\nPilot of marvelous spirit. Attacked two enemy two-seaters successfully behind their lines, probably shooting down the first. Wounded and disabled in the course of the second combat, by sheer strength he succeeded in landing in no man's land and after passing the day in a shell hole, by night he got back to the Allied trenches.\n\n"}
{"id": "23211852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23211852", "title": "Chemical leasing", "text": "Chemical leasing\n\n\"Chemical Leasing\" is a business model that intends to shift the focus from increasing sales volume of chemicals towards a value-added approach. It leads to the more efficient use of chemicals, and to the improved health and safety, environmental, and economic benefits. Find the definition and the examples on www.chemicalleasing.org \n\nThe term Chemical Leasing is the name of a business model and is NOT the same thing as leasing of chemicals, although it may include leasing operations.\n\nThe producer mainly sells the functions performed by the chemical and the functional units, such as the number of pieces painted, are the main basis for payment. It is a business model in which a customer engages with a service provider in a strategic, long-term contract to supply and manage the customer’s chemical and related services. \n\nChemical Leasing applied in many companies, but sometimes under different names. Similar concepts: eco-efficient services, product-service systems, pay-per-use, circular-economy, performance-based, functional-based, service-oriented, chemicals-as-a-service, etc. In case of the doubt, it is better to check the official UNIDO definition of Chemical Leasing :\n\n\nChemical leasing promotes the sustainable management of chemicals. By shifting the focus from increasing the sales volume of chemicals towards a more value-added approach, it is an illustration of extended producer responsibility. The chemical company supplies chemicals for a specific service, such as coatings, adhesives, washing agents, solvents, and also advises the user on its best use..\n\nBuilt on strong cooperation between partners and based on mutual trust, it increases the efficient use of chemicals, reduces the risks to human health brought about by their use, improves the economic and environmental performance of participating companies and ultimately enhances business performance.\n\nAt the Earth Summit 2002 on sustainable development, the international community agreed on the goal of ensuring that, by the year 2020, chemicals will be produced and used in ways that minimize significant adverse impacts on human health and the environment. As a consequence the United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP) decided to develop of the Strategic Approach to International Chemicals Management (SAICM) in 2003. In 2006 at the International Conference on Chemicals Management (ICCM) in Dubai, the signing countries committed themselves to promote the sound management of chemicals and hazardous wastes at all levels.\n\nThe Austrian government has played an important role in promoting chemicals management based on resource efficiency and precaution. When Austria held the Presidency of the European Union during the first half of 2006, chemicals policy was on top of the environmental agenda. Austria continues to promote chemical leasing.\n\nThe Federal Environment Agency (UBA) of Germany proposed to promote chemical leasing in its \"Sustainable Chemicals\" paper. \n\nIn 2004, the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) and the Austrian Ministry of Environment decided to jointly support chemical leasing through a number of global projects. In partnership with National Cleaner Production Centers, UNIDO has implemented chemical leasing projects in Austria, Egypt, Mexico, and Russia. Since then, pilot projects have been conducted in Latin and South America, Africa, Europe and Asia. Nowadays, more than 100 companies worldwide have included Chemical Leasing in their business strategies. \n\nChemical Leasing can be applied in many industries and processes, ranging from car manufacturing to cleaning operations, wastewater treatment, textiles, beverage and food production. Some examples of the successful Chemical Leasing collaboration between the chemical user and the chemical supplier can be found here: http://chemicalleasing-toolkit.org/node/8 \n\nA Joint Declaration of Intent on Chemical Leasing was signed between UNIDO, Austria, Germany and Switzerland in November 2016.\n\nPERO Innovative Services GmbH together with SAFECHEM Europe GmbH, a subsidiary of The Dow Chemical Company, have supported Automobiltechnik Blau in metal cleaning to use cost-efficient machines, lower the energy consumption and chemical usage.\n\nAkzo Nobel Powder Coatings S.A.E has supported the chemical leasing of powder coating in Egypt to ABB ARAB. Environmental benefits are said to include recycling of powder waste, compliance with environmental regulations, and enhancement of supply chain management. \n\nFind more successful Chemical Leasing examples here: http://chemicalleasing-toolkit.org/node/8\n\nThe reversal of the burden of proof is a key component of the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) system leading to a \"no data – no market\" concept, obliging producers or importers of substances to deliver documentation regarding properties of chemicals and possible risks during their application as a pre-condition for market access. The OECD Conference in Vienna in 2003 Nov. reiterated that, \"... The new EU chemicals policy (REACH) will require a new relationship between provider and user ...\" According to Thomas Jakl, Chairman of the European Chemical Agency (ECHA), chemical leasing paves the way to comply with REACH obligations.\n\nChemical leasing and REACH share the same philosophy of ensuring compliance with a duty of care (REACH recital 16), as a tool to demonstrate adequate control (REACH para 60). They are mutually supportive in developing rules for sharing costs, and ensuring that chemicals are handled properly. Both are involve several different stages of the supply chain. There is a strong effort by the Austrian and German Governments to bring chemical leasing within the purview of EU Chemicals policy and regulations.\nChemical leasing projects are divided into planning, implementation, evaluation and dissemination stages, based on a Deming Cycle. The planning stage consists of a preparatory phase, a process optimisation phase and a design phase. In this stage, discussions around the leasing model, its cost implications versus quality and environmental benefits, commercial terms, and conditions begin. A baseline audit is performed, and a report presented to the factory management. This audit outlines the potential for improvements and forms the basis of defining the key performance indicators (KPIs). The resources needed to fulfil improvements are also defined.\n\nThe implementation stage starts with the signing of a chemical leasing agreement that defines the scope and conditions, unit of payment, KPIs, roles, and responsibilities. The chemical company supervises the chemical process, transporting and managing the inventory, laboratory management, improving process controls, record keeping, and training workers. Periodic checks and inspections are carried out independently to verify that the implementation is proceeding on expected lines. At the end of the implementation phase, progress is evaluated, often by an external party to secure objectivity. Finally, any project benefits are quantified and learning is documented, to provide input for future projects.\n\n16 January 2018 - The United Nations Industrial Development Organization announced the fourth Global Chemical Leasing Award. The award ceremony will take place on 6 November 2018 in Vienna, Austria. It will be part of the Green Chemistry Conference 2018 within the Trio Presidency of the Council of the European Union (EU) programme, “Smart and Sustainable Europe”, held during Austria’s EU Presidency.\n\nCompanies and individuals are invited to submit applications for the award in three categories: case studies (for companies), research, and special innovation. The call for applications is open until 15 August 2018. More information can be found at www.chemicalleasing.org\n\nThe Global Chemical Leasing Award has been launched in 2010. The Award intends to further enhance the global visibility of Chemical Leasing, acknowledge best practices and inspire companies and individuals around the globe to apply the Chemical Leasing business concept by reducing the inefficient use and over-consumption of chemicals and developing strong business partnerships and innovation along the entire supply chain.</ref> The awards took place in 2010 (Prague), in 2012 (Frankfurt-am-Main), and in 2014 (Vienna). \n\n\n"}
{"id": "3118432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3118432", "title": "Constant elasticity of substitution", "text": "Constant elasticity of substitution\n\nConstant elasticity of substitution (CES), in economics, is a property of some production functions and utility functions.\n\nSpecifically, it arises in a particular type of aggregator function which combines two or more types of consumption goods, or two or more types of production inputs into an aggregate quantity. This aggregator function exhibits constant elasticity of substitution.\n\nThe CES production function is a neoclassical production function that displays constant elasticity of substitution. In other words, the production technology has a constant percentage change in factor (e.g. labour and capital) proportions due to a percentage change in marginal rate of technical substitution. The two factor (capital, labor) CES production function introduced by Solow, and later made popular by Arrow, Chenery, Minhas, and Solow is:\n\nwhere\n\n\nAs its name suggests, the CES production function exhibits constant elasticity of substitution between capital and labor. Leontief, linear and Cobb–Douglas functions are special cases of the CES production function. That is, \n\nThe general form of the CES production function, with \"n\" inputs, is:\n\nwhere\n\n\nExtending the CES (Solow) functional form to accommodate multiple factors of production creates some problems. However, there is no completely general way to do this. Uzawa showed the only possible n-factor production functions (n>2) with constant partial elasticities of substitution require either that all elasticities between pairs of factors be identical, or if any differ, these all must equal each other and all remaining elasticities must be unity. This is true for any production function. This means the use of the CES functional form for more than 2 factors will generally mean that there is not constant elasticity of substitution among all factors.\n\nNested CES functions are commonly found in partial equilibrium and general equilibrium models. Different nests (levels) allow for the introduction of the appropriate elasticity of substitution.\n\nThe same CES functional form arises as a utility function in consumer theory. For example, if there exist formula_21 types of consumption goods formula_22, then aggregate consumption formula_23 could be defined using the CES aggregator:\n\nHere again, the coefficients formula_25 are share parameters, and formula_9 is the elasticity of substitution. Therefore, the consumption goods formula_22 are perfect substitutes when formula_28 approaches infinity and perfect complements when formula_9 approaches zero. The CES aggregator is also sometimes called the \"Armington aggregator\", which was discussed by Armington (1969).\n\nCES utility functions are a special case of homothetic preferences.\n\nThe following is an example of a CES utility function for two goods, formula_30 and formula_31, with equal shares:\nThe expenditure function in this case is:\nThe indirect utility function is its inverse:\nThe demand functions are:\n\nA CES utility function is one of the cases considered by Dixit and Stiglitz (1977) in their study of optimal product diversity in a context of monopolistic competition.\n\nNote the difference between CES utility and isoelastic utility: the CES utility function is an ordinal utility function that represents preferences on sure consumption commodity bundles, while the isoelastic utility function is a cardinal utility function that represents preferences on lotteries. A CES indirect (dual) utility function has been used to derive utility-consistent brand demand systems where category demands are determined endogenously by a multi-category, CES indirect (dual) utility function. It has also been shown that CES preferences are self-dual and that both primal and dual CES preferences yield systems of indifference curves that may exhibit any degree of convexity.\n\n"}
{"id": "1018617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1018617", "title": "Cost centre (business)", "text": "Cost centre (business)\n\nA cost centre is a department within a business to which costs can be allocated. The term includes departments which do not produce directly but incur costs to the business, when the manager and employees of the cost centre are not accountable for the profitability and investment decisions of the business but they are responsible for some of its costs.\n\nThere are two main types of cost centres:\n\n\nCost centres can be trimmed down to the smallest segregated tasks within Departments. It is not necessary to consider departments as outright cost centres. Some companies adopt a different approach when treating cost centres.\n\nThe main function of a cost centre is the tracing of all expenses linked with a certain function. For example, by considering a call centre as an independent unit, the firm can calculate how much it is spending each year for its 1-800 support service. If a cost centre is not considered independent then it would take a lot of effort in measuring the cost of providing this service because it will include dividing up the company's entire personnel and phone bills by department each month.\n\nThere are numerous benefits of a cost centre which include:\n\nThere are a few drawbacks of cost centre which include:\n\nA cost centre adds to a firm's cost whereas a profit centre adds to the firm's cost and profit. Furthermore, the main objective of a cost centre is to minimise cost whereas the main objective of a profit centre is to maximise profit. Profit centres provide a wider and more general measurement of performance than the cost centre. In cost centre, the manager is only responsible for the cost whereas in a profit centre, the manager is responsible for cost and profit. In situations like this when manager is responsible for both, profit and cost, the contribution of each manager to the goal of the firm becomes easier to measure.\n"}
{"id": "39992092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39992092", "title": "Dani Antoun Bterrani", "text": "Dani Antoun Bterrani\n\nDani Antoun Bterrani is the founder of 3dr Models, the largest model making company in the Middle East. 3dr Models work on residential development, government buildings, university buildings, airports, public & private institutions, banking and financial institutions, health care facilities, recreational & sports facilities and more.\n\nMr. Bterrani is also responsible for creating the following companies: 3d Innovations, ADF Properties in Lebanon, Falmoze and BT Investments.\n\nDani Antoun Bterrani is a Lebanese national. He was born in Kuwait and married in Beirut before moving to the United Arab Emirates (U.A.E) with his wife and three children. He studied in the U.A.E and majored in Economics.\n\nMr. Dani A. Bterrani has made a solid mark in the architectural model industry from a very young age. Born to an architect father, he got his basic training on blueprints and scale model calculations.\nNow heading 3dr Models, a huge company that has grown to become an internationally recognized firm, with production center boasting an area of 50,000 sq.feet, well equipped state of the art machines, and more than 400 skillful professional model makers, has been a part of more than 5000 projects.\n\nIn 1990, Mr. Bterrani opened his first model making workshop, 3d Model Making in Dubai, U.A.E, with only five workers. The effort he put into his models, in terms of details and passion, were quickly recognized by his clients, causing his company and reputation to grow.\n\nIn 1998, 3d Model Making branched out to signage laser and water-jet technologies under a new name, 3d Innovations. \nIn 2002, he further diversified into wooden flooring trading and installation.\n\nMeanwhile, the demand for model making was growing rapidly and in 2005, Bterrani met his current partner, Ray Cheung. With the same model making history in common, they immediately joined forces and created what is now the largest model making facility in the world.\n\n3dr Models and RJ Models currently have 18% of the world’s model making market, occupying 12,800 square meters with over 500 in manpower, producing over 60 models per month.\n\nIn 2009, Mr. Bterrani, diverted into real estate in Lebanon and established ADF Properties, which aimed to develop, rent and sell properties within Lebanon. In 2010, he proposed and initiated the world's largest Santa Clause Village to be built at the peak heights of Lebanon.\n\nIn 2011, Mr. Bterrani decided to venture into F&B, where the Falmoze brand was created, and aimed to be a new kind of simple healthy food chain of outlets.\n\nIn 2012, Mr. Bterrani created BT Investments, a holding company that consolidates all his companies under a centralized management with an estimated turnover of over 150,000,000USD.\n\nThe companies under BT Investments include 3dr Models, ADF Properties, 3D Innovation and Falmoze.\n\nIn 2013, Mr. Bterrani was featured in Middle East Architect magazine as one of the Power 50 who shaped the architecture of the Middle East (page 62).\n\nIn 2014 Mr. Bterrani created an offshore company DAMA aimed to capture high end Italian Brands into F&B Outlets, and has its first brand \"Trussardi\" signed.\n\nBterrani and Ray Cheung published a book entitled Architectural Models. It was sold in Hong Kong libraries in its first year, but it now serves as a portfolio and catalog of every model they have made.\n\n\n\nIn 2010, Bterrani proposed and initiated plans to create the world’s largest Santa Claus Village, which will be built at the peak heights of Lebanon. To date, however, nothing from this project as materialized.\n\n"}
{"id": "9173057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9173057", "title": "Ernest Cable, 1st Baron Cable", "text": "Ernest Cable, 1st Baron Cable\n\nErnest Cable, 1st Baron Cable (1 December 1859 – 28 March 1927) was an Indian-born British merchant and financier.\n\nBorn in Calcutta, he was the eldest son of George Hebberd Cable, a superintendent with the Indian Customs and Excise Service. His mother Emily Maria, was the daughter of William Pickersgill, who had served in the Royal Navy. Cable was educated privately and at the University of Calcutta.\n\nAfter his education Cable became first employed in Calcutta at Ashburner and Co and then worked for Lyall, Rennie and Co, both trading agencys. Aged seventeen he joined Bird and Co, a merchant house which had interests in many different areas of commerce, especially labour contracting (in which it had started), coal and jute.\n\nIn 1886, he became a partner in the company. By 1896 it directly employed 15,000 people and contracted 15,000 more. Much of this expansion was due to Cable's business acumen and his knowledge of India and good relations with its people. He also set up a subsidiary in the City of London to ease British investments in the company. By 1914 he was senior partner of the company. In 1917 Bird acquired a controlling interest in F. W. Heilgers and Co, another Calcutta merchant house, creating by far the largest company in India, employing 100,000 people.\n\nCable was also a director of the Western Assurance Company, the Tanganyika Development Company, and the British America Assurance Company.\n\nIn 1903, Cable was elected president of the Bengal Chamber of Commerce and from then sat in the Imperial Legislative Council, headed by the Viceroy of India. He was nominated Sheriff of Calcutta in 1905 and during his tenure was knighted when George, Prince of Wales and his wife Mary of Teck visited the city in the following year.\n\nAfter his return to England by 1913, Cable was invited into the Royal Commission on Indian Finance and Currency and in 1916 he was appointed High Sheriff of Devon. In the 1921 New Year's Honours he was raised to Peerage of the United Kingdom with the title Baron Cable, of Ideford, in the County of Devon.\n\nOn 10 October 1888, he married Lilian Sarah, daughter of Weston Joseph Sparkes. \nThe couple had two daughters and two sons, both named George. The first died at or near birth and was buried on February 6th, 1891, in Calcutta, Bengal, India. The second was born December 5th, 1891 at Ideford. He was killed in action in the First World War in 1915. His wife died in 1924 and Cable survived her for three years, dying in London in 1927; he was buried in Ideford on 31 March. With his death the barony became extinct.\n\nA Junior Wing House at St Paul's School, Darjeeling, India, where all the houses bear names after colonial age figures, is named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "2636396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2636396", "title": "Ernst Litfaß", "text": "Ernst Litfaß\n\nErnst Amandus Theodor Litfaß (or Litfass; ; 11 February 1816 – 27 December 1874) was a German printer and publisher. He invented the free-standing cylindrical advertising column which bears his name in German (\"Litfaßsäule\").\n\nBorn in Berlin, Litfaß took over his stepfather's business in 1845 and became the editor of a number of newspapers and pamphlets. As publisher, he completed, in 1858, the edition of the \"Oekonomische Encyklopädie\" (in 242 volumes), which had been started by Johann Georg Krünitz in 1773.\n\nIn 1854 Litfaß proposed putting up columns in the streets of Berlin for announcement and advertising purposes. Allegedly, he was disgusted by the unsystematic and ubiquitous posting of pamphlets, notices and other materials on walls, doors, fences and trees. In December that year he was granted permission to erect such \"Annoncier-Säulen\" columns, and on 1 July 1855 the first 100 \"Litfaß-Säulen\" were presented in Berlin.\n\nLitfaß had a monopoly on his advertising columns and grew rich fast. After his death in Wiesbaden in 1874, the idea of putting up \"Litfaßsäulen\" (\"Litfaß columns\" or \"Litfaß pillars\") quickly spread to other German cities. Today, they can be found in other countries as well.\n\nLater developments include the electrically powered slowly revolving Litfaß column; Litfaß columns that serve as vents for underground services; and the Litfaß column with a hidden door whose interior is used for storage purposes (tools for street sweeping, electrical appliances, etc.)\n\nLitfaß supported wounded veterans of the wars of 1864, 1866 and 1870–71 and their relatives by sponsoring concerts, fireworks, boat tours and donating the proceeds to charities.\n\nHe died during a spa in Wiesbaden and was buried in a honorary grave on the Dorotheenstadt cemetery in Berlin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1614708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1614708", "title": "Fast-moving consumer goods", "text": "Fast-moving consumer goods\n\nFast-Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) or Consumer Packaged Goods (CPG) are products that are sold quickly and at a relatively low cost. Examples include non-durable goods such as packaged foods, beverages, toiletries, over-the-counter drugs, and other consumables. \n\nMany fast moving consumer goods have a short shelf life, either as a result of high consumer demand or as the result of fast deterioration. Some FMCG, such as meats, fruits, vegetables, dairy products, and baked goods are highly perishable. Other goods, such as pre-packaged foods, soft drinks, candies, and toiletries have high turnover rates. Sales are sometimes influenced by holiday and/or seasonal periods.\n\nPackaging is critical for FMCG. Logistics and distribution systems often require secondary and tertiary packaging to maximize efficiency. Unit or primary packaging protects products and shelf life while providing product information to consumers.\n\nThe profit margin on FMCG products can be relatively small, but they are generally sold in large quantities; thus, the cumulative profit on such products can be substantial. FMCG is a classic low margin and high volume business. According to BASES, 84% of fast-moving consumer goods professionals are under more pressure to quickly bring new products to the market than they were five or ten years ago. With this in mind, 47% of those surveyed confessed that product testing suffers most when deadlines are accelerated. The most innovative FMCG companies are now adopting agile design Agile Marketing and development principles which allow them to remain nimble in response to market demand and customer feedback.\n\nThe growth of the internet over the past quarter century and the rise of the brand community phenomenon have contributed greatly to the demand for FMCG. According to the AGOF internet facts, 73% of Germany's population is online. Additionally, 83.7% of internet users claim to use the web to search for information and 68.3% shop online. Vendors use the internet to their advantage to connect with consumers and market their goods, targeting consumers who show high identification with a specific brand or good. Marketers of FMCG have discovered this capability and are using it to build relationships with their customers to understand what they want. \n\nThe following are the main characteristics of FMCGs:\n\nConsumers in rural areas typically purchase goods from nearby towns and villages. Recently, there has been a shift in consumer purchase behavior towards purchasing locally that has prompted the need for better local promotional efforts to generate brand awareness in small towns. FMCGs play a large part in the economy as inelastic products that touch every part of consumer life in one way or another. Businesses that supply FMCGs to a rural community can help provide employment opportunities as well as drive down the cost of such products in those rural areas. For instance, the FMCG sector in India is the 4th largest sector in its economy and generates employment for more than 3 million people in downstream activities.\n\nThe retail market for FMCGs includes businesses in the following International Standard Industrial Classification (ISIC) (Revision 3) categories:\n\nSupplier industries for FMCGs include:\n\nFast-moving consumer electronics are typically low-priced generic items with many comparable alternatives offering similar functionality. Examples of consumer electronics include: mobile phones, MP3 players, game players, earphones, headphones, OTG cables, and digital disposable cameras.\n\n"}
{"id": "9523310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9523310", "title": "Four Embarcadero Center", "text": "Four Embarcadero Center\n\nFour Embarcadero Center is a class-A office skyscraper in the Financial District of San Francisco, California. The building is part of the Embarcadero Center complex of six interconnected buildings and one off-site extension. The skyscraper, completed in 1982, stands with 45 stories. Four Embarcadero Center is the tallest building out of the entire complex, standing at slightly taller than One Embarcadero Center, which is the second tallest in the complex without its flagpole.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53650730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53650730", "title": "Fraydun Manocherian", "text": "Fraydun Manocherian\n\nFraydun \"Fred\" Manocherian (born 1932) is an American real estate developer, author, and founder of the National Road Safety Foundation and the New York Health & Racquet Club chain.\n\nManocherian was born in 1932 to a Persian Jewish family, the son of Yahya Manocherian and his wife Touba (née Lalezari). He has one sister, Touran Manocherian Waghoubzadeh; and three brothers: Amir, Eskander, and Manouchehr. \nHe and his brothers founded Manocherian Brothers and Pan Am Equities, which focused on the redevelopment of Upper East Side tenement blocks.\nIn 1973, Manocherian, a fitness enthusiast, founded the New York Health & Racquet Club chain which eventually became the largest fitness chain in New York City. He also founded the New York Stress & Research Center.\n\nIn 1955, he became an advocate for federal funding of public education in traffic safety after two of his high school friends were killed by a drunk driver. In 1962, he founded the National Road Safety Foundation. In 1970, he wrote \"Flesh, Metal & Glass\", a book about auto safety which included his Manocherian Chart. He and attorney Leonard J. Robbins founded The Manocherian-Robbins Foundation tasked with reducing the death rate on the nation's roadways through public-service advertising and legislative lobbying.\n\nIn 2011, he wrote the fiction novel, \"My Father's Will: A Novel\".\n\nManocherian has received several awards due to his advocacy of automotive safety including the “Man of the Year” award from the New York Council for Civic Affairs, the “Man of the Year” award from the Greater New York Automobile Dealers Association, an Honorary Doctorate in Humane Letters from St. John's University, a Master of Arts degree from the International University of Communications in Washington, D.C., the 1997 Distinguished Service to Safety Award from the National Safety Council and the 2005 Public Service Award from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.\n\nIn 1959, he married Jennifer Ann Robbins, daughter of cookbook author Ann Roe Robbins. They had five children: Kim (born 1960), John (born 1962), Jed (born 1966), Greg (born 1967) and Cara (born 1974).\n\nHis brother, Eskander Manocherian (died 1999) was married to Bernice Manocherian, former president of AIPAC. In 1985, his daughter Kimberly Diana Manocherian married Jerome John Strelov in a Unitarian ceremony in Manhattan. Kim is the president of the New York Health & Racquet Club. His niece, Ellen (daughter of Manouchehr Manocherian), is married to real estate investor and landlord Kamran Hakim. His son Greg, was an executive producer for the 1989 film \"That's Adequate\"; and co-produced and co-wrote the script for the 1997 independent film \"Hudson River Blues\" with his mother. His son John was an executive producer for the 2005 film \"Dave Chappelle's Block Party.\"\n"}
{"id": "16824166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16824166", "title": "Gaspar Vibal", "text": "Gaspar Vibal\n\nGaspar A. Vibal is the executive director of Vibal Foundation. As book collector, he pioneered the creation of Filipiniana.net (a \"fully featured digital library and research portal\") and WikiPilipinas.org, two of the foundation's flagship projects. As a balikbayan from New York City, Gaspar is a scion of a family long-established in the Philippine book publishing and commercial printing industry. His parents are Hilarion Palomer Vibal (1908–1988) and Esther Asuncion. Hilarion was a writer, editor, and publisher. He is known as the co-founder of Vibal Publishing House, Inc., the Philippines' biggest publishing house. He was among the first generations of Filipino writers in English. On April 30, 1950, Hilarion met and married Esther at the time he was recruited by Ramon Roces's associate D.H. Soriano to become the business editor of Evening News. Gaspar's mother Esther, on the other hand, is a writer, publisher, businesswoman, socio-civic worker, lifetime member of the prestigious Girl Scouts of the Philippines and philanthropist. As incumbent president of Vibal Publishing House Inc. (VPHI), she is known internationally as the first Asian and Filipino world president (1983) of Inner Wheel Club, a socio-civic organization formed by wives of Rotary International. She was the founder of Philippine Women's Studies project and Member of the Board of Trustees of UP Center for Women's Studies Foundation, Inc. (UP CWSFI), a commissioner of the National Commission on the Role of Filipino Women, and was the president of the National Council of Women of the Philippines (1990).\n\nVibal earned a Bachelor of Science degree in business economics from the University of the Philippines. He worked for 2 decades in the Philippine and American publishing industries. In 1983 Vibal migrated to New York to study at the New York University Book and Magazine Publishing Institute.\n\nGaspar brought Wiki to the Philippines by the creation of his WikiPilipinas which introduced the 'copyleft' IPR model of Wikipedia. The WikiPilipinas team, headed by webmaster Richard Grimaldo (internet and telecommunications administrator of the Vibal Group of Companies) and Alfred Ursua as its managing editor , were responsible for Gaspar's initial Project Wikipiniana. Gaspar projected for the long tail phenomenon or effect (Wired Magazine editor Chris Anderson) of this Philippine Wiki encyclopedia to give more prominence to Filipino culture on the Internet. Vibal complained that \"almost all the articles in Wikipedia are written from a Western point of view\". But aiming not just for balance, Vibal opted more for \"a national campaign to foster nationalism\". And like many local editions of Wikipedia, Wikipilipinas already suffers from the \"frog in the well\" syndrome: a regional ghetto of interest only to angry nationalists protesting that the Philippines is doomed and that it's all someone else's fault. On March 15, 2008, Vibal's WikiPilipinas created WikiFilipino, for Filipino culture and information. It is managed by Alfred Ursua, with web support by Richard Grimaldo, and guidance by Roberto T. Añonuevo.\n\nGaspar's Filipiniana.net is a digital library and online research portal \"that houses the most comprehensive collection of Filipino- related documents that are in the public domain, from letters from Spanish Governor-General Pedro de Acuña to King Philip III to an obscure 1933 Philippine romance novel entitled \"Ang Magmamani\", and makes it all available to the public at no cost at all\". Launched on November 23, 2006, it was Richard Grimaldo's web development and applications expertise that was crucial in the development of Filipiniana.net to spearhead Vibal's vision \"of democratizing Filipino access to information about the Philippines through the internet.\" It digitized rare and out of print books, documents, and images and publishing them online without any cost to the readers.\nVIBAL Publishing's 1980 Educational Service Program (ESP) was a brainchild of Gaspar Vibal, and has \"evolved to become a full-scale teacher-training program with year-round seminars and workshops to help teachers and school administrators nationwide meet the increasing demands and challenges posed by their profession\".\n\nVibal stated that: \"Today, it (Filipiniana.net) has one of the widest and most comprehensive collection of hard-to-find Filipiniana books and documents categorized under history, geography, culture, government, and society. It also features photographs, maps, paintings and illustrations, the Virtual Philippine Revolutionary Records, 100 Nobelang Tagalog, Virtual Blair and Robertson, and the Master Union Bibliography of the Philippines, 100 Pinoy Komik Serials, Premio Zobel.org, and Archivo General de Filipinas.\" Vibal also announced the forthcoming birth of his brainchild e-turo.org.\n\nOn June 12, 2008, the 110th Philippine Declaration of Independence day, e.turo.org was created by the Vibal Foundation, (owned by Gaspar Vibal and his family) a nonprofit organization which previously launched Filipiniana.net, and WikiPilipinas.org (a reference guide on the Philippines). Tin Mandigma, editor-in-chief of E-turo.org explained that it is an e-learning portal which \"seeks to provide free and quality learning materials online to teachers and students; it gives teachers access to lesson plans and modules based on textbook materials published by Vibal Publishing House, Inc. amid plans to offer Department of Education-approved content from various learning institutions as supplementary teaching materials. One of the most common complaints of teachers is that while the Internet has so much information, most of it cannot be adapted to the local classroom. With this project, we hope to help teachers sort through the clutter and give them quality information that would be useful for their students.\"\n\nAmid the Department of Education's controversy on recent textbook project, Vibal Publishing House Inc. admitted that it had interlocking ownership with an affiliate, the LG and M Corp, but denied accusations of being the leader of a cartel. Vibal and LG and M formed a consortium regarding the publication and delivery of 17.5 million elementary textbooks and teaching manuals for public elementary and high schools funded by P 800-million loan ($40 million) World Bank loan. Contracts were awarded in September, 2006 to Vibal and Watana Phanit, inter alia, despite a pending Supreme Court petition filed by losing bidders. Further, Gaspar clarified that Wikipilipinas \"should be treated as a separate entity from his family's publishing business, Vibal Publishing\".\n\nVibal acquired the rare first edition copies of Dr. Jose Rizal's novels, \"Noli Me Tangere\" and \"El Filibusterismo\", for his Filipiniana.net. Vibal discovered these at the Old Book Fair in Madrid, Spain on October, 2006. These were part of the late Adelina Gurrea Monasterio collection. Vibal stated that: \"They are very expensive\" - opting to be careful not to reveal the price, for it might put the prized items in danger. Vibal spent 25 years of his life to bring back the original \"Noli\" and \"Fili\" to Philippine shores.\n\nVibal has a treasure collection of articles either written by, for, or about Dr. Jose Rizal, antiquated by dust and partly destroyed by termites. His wide collection of Filipiniana (printed works on Philippine history and culture) include:\nHe digitized such historical resources / articles and upload them for free on filipinana.net. and wikipilipinas.org. Vibal and associate, Jaime Marco, initiated the portal with the help of Spanish historian Carlos Madrid.\n\nVibal's partners in the industry were Jeroen Hellingman (Dutch director of Project Gutenberg Philippines, the world's first and biggest provider of free Philippine electronic books); Isaac Donoso, Spanish historian in Manila; Dr. Lloyd Espiritu, former dean of the De La Salle College of Computer Studies; University of the Philippines-based historian Grace Mateo; and Georgina Padilla Zobel of .\n\n"}
{"id": "31948148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31948148", "title": "Global Road Entertainment", "text": "Global Road Entertainment\n\nGlobal Road Entertainment is an American film production and distribution company based in Los Angeles, California. It was launched in March 2011 as Open Road Films by the two largest American theatrical exhibitors, AMC Theatres and Regal Entertainment Group, who both owned the company as a joint venture until it was acquired by Tang Media Partners, a media company owned by Donald Tang, in August 2017. After Tang's purchase, Open Road merged with IM Global and renamed to its current name. In September 2018, Open Road declared Chapter 11 bankruptcy, and in November 2018, agreed to be purchased by Raven Capital Management pending court approval.\n\nIn March 2011, rival theater chains AMC Entertainment and Regal Entertainment Group announced the hiring of Tom Ortenberg as Chief Executive Officer of their new production company, Open Road Films. Ortenberg, previously an executive of Lionsgate and The Weinstein Company, filled out his executive team with the April 2011 hirings of Jason Cassidy (president of marketing), Elliott Kleinberg (General Counsel and executive vice president of operations and business affairs), Steven Andriuzzo (chief financial officer), and Ben Cotner (senior vice president of acquisitions).\n\nOpen Road's titles are distributed in the home entertainment market by Universal Pictures Home Entertainment (UPHE), a deal that was signed in June 2011. In June 2011, a few months after it started operations, Open Road Films signed a pay-TV deal with Netflix, which expired in 2016.\n\nThe studio released its first film, \"Killer Elite\", on September 23, 2011, directed by Gary McKendry and starring Jason Statham, Clive Owen and Robert De Niro. Open Road's 2015 film \"Spotlight\" received six Academy Award nominations and became the surprise winner for Best Picture at the 88th Academy Awards, also winning for Best Original Screenplay. These were the first Oscar wins for the company.\n\nIn October 2013, the studio signed a pay-TV deal with Showtime that began in 2017 and expires in 2020. Open Road and UPHE extended its home distribution deal in February 2014 through 2017.\n\nOn October 30, 2014, Open Road announced an international deal with FilmNation Entertainment. The deal would allow the company purchase worldwide rights and FilmNation selling and servicing international distribution.\n\nOpen Road Films was purchased by Tang Media Partners in August 2017. Rob Friedman joined Tang Media Partners in August 2017 as chairman and CEO of TMP Entertainment to oversee Open Road, IM Global and IM Global TV. Open Road Films and fellow TMP Entertainment units were renamed to Global Road Entertainment on October 30, 2017 with Friedman assuming the Global Road chairman and CEO posts.\n\nIn 2017, the company announced plans to have a slate of approximately 15 films per year by 2020. At the European Film Market in February 2018, Global Road announced that it anticipated spending $1 billion on film and television productions over the next three years, with production budgets projected to be in the $20 million to $100 million range. In 2018, the company made an agreement with Blumhouse Productions to co-develop and co-finance low budget Chinese language genre films.\n\nGlobal Road's 2018 film distibution slate includes the teen drama \"Midnight Sun\", starring Bella Thorne and Patrick Schwarzenegger; family comedy \"Show Dogs\", starring Will Arnett; science fiction thriller \"The Silence\", which it acquired for US distribution; the action-thriller \"Hotel Artemis\", starring Jodie Foster and Sterling K. Brown; science fiction family adventure \"A.X.L.\"; and animated family adventure-comedy \"Playmobil: Uncharted\".\n\nUpcoming Global Road productions include \"Serenity\", a neo-noir thriller starring Anne Hathaway, Matthew McConaughey, Diane Lane and directed by Steven Knight; \"Richard Says Goodbye\", a comedy-drama starring Johnny Depp and directed by Wayne Roberts; the science-fiction romance \"Zoe\", starring Ewan McGregor; and \"Mortal\", directed by André Øvredal. The company's film \"I Think We're Alone Now\", starring Peter Dinklage, Elle Fanning and Paul Giamatti, premiered at the 2018 Sundance Film Festival.\n\nGlobal Road's television arm develops scripted and non-scripted programming for both U.S. and global markets. Shows being developed include \"Cat's Cradle\", a limited series based on the novel by Kurt Vonnegut, being written and executive produced by Noah Hawley for FX; \"Kilroy County\", a dark comedy from Alexander Payne and Jim Taylor being developed for Showtime; Jenji Kohan's Lifetime drama \"American Princess\"; \"Muscle Shoals\", a drama in development at ABC with Johnny Depp as executive producer; the eight-part crime drama \"Cold Courage\", based on the novels by Pekka Hiltunen; \"Fried Chicken and Latkes\", an adaptation of Rain Pryor's one-woman comedy show; \"Jett\", a crime drama starring and executive produced by Carla Gugino for Cinemax; the reality cooking competition \"Fridge Wars\" for Canada's CBC network; and global rights to \"Idiotest\", based on the Game Show Network quiz show.\n\nIn January 2018, Global Road signed a development deal with Reginald Hudlin and Byron Phillips through their company New Nation Networks, under which Hudlin and Phillips would develop and produce original content for Global Road. Later that month, the company signed a first-look television deal with Adam Shankman and Jennifer Gibgot's production company Offspring Entertainment; projects announced under this deal include \"Wolfgang\", based on the life of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, and an untitled comedy from husband-and-wife actor-producers Carlos and Alexa PenaVega. Around the same time, Global Road also announced co-development deals with French production company Newen and the Ukrainian FILM.UA Group.\n\nGlobal Road's film unit was taken over by its primary lenders, Bank of America and East West Bank, in August 2018 as Donald Tang had not raised enough funds for Global Road. Lenders did have Global Roads release \"A.X.L.\" while stopping the release of \"City of Lies\" slated for September 7, 2018. With A.X.L. not doing well at the box office, the company was forced to layoff employees without severance, a requirement of the lenders. The company was also looking to sell a number of its upcoming films, \"City of Lies\", \"The Silence\" and \"Playmobil\"; it was also 'backing out of' development for \"The Secret Garden\". The company was also sued along with TV rights distributor Miramax by lender Bank Leumi over loans for \"City of Lies\". \n\nOn September 6, 2018, Global Road's film unit filed for Chapter 11 Bankruptcy. On October 23, 2018, Global Road filed with the court plans for an auction its assets beginning November 7th with a stalking horse bidder selected with term of $800,000 in expenses coverage and a $2.1 million outbid fee if approve by the judge. In November 2018 after lack luster auction bidding, Open Road agreed to be purchased by Raven Capital Management for $87.5 million pending court approval.\n\nIn August 2017, Rob Friedman was named Global Road's chairman and CEO. Rodolphe Buet was named president of international in October 2017, and the following month Lynn Harris was named president of worldwide production. In early 2018, Jack Pan was named president of worldwide theatrical marketing.\n\nIn March 2018, the company announced several new hires to their international operations division, including Charlotte Van Weede as President of International Sales (replacing Michael Rothstein); Brad Kembel as Executive Vice President of Distribution and Operations; Melissa Martinez as Executive Vice President of International Marketing; and Sarah Genazzani as Director of International Marketing, with Executive Vice President of International Sales Tatyana Joffe extending her contract to work with the new team.\n\nGlobal Road (formerly Open Road) distributes its films to other countries as well, through another distributor originating in that country via its sale agent, FilmNation Entertainment.\n\n"}
{"id": "2106868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2106868", "title": "Hari Punja", "text": "Hari Punja\n\nHari Punja, OF, OBE (born 1936) is an Indo-Fijian businessman and Chairman of Hari Punja Group of Companies. Hari Punja and Sons Limited is a very diversified (and probably the largest) company in Fiji.\n\nHari Punja was born in Cuvu, Sigatoka, Fiji and received his education in Fiji and Australia. He trained as a chemical engineer. Punja joined the business in 1960. He has served as a mayor of Lautoka and on a number of prestigious boards such as Fiji Broadcasting Commission and Fiji Sugar Corporation. He served as a Senator from 1996 to 1999.\n\nPunja has been married to Tara for about fifty years and has five children: Rohit, Ajai, Sanjay, Deepa, Leena.\n\nPunja has been bestowed with many credentials and honors. Some of these include:\n\n"}
{"id": "52093278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52093278", "title": "Hashem Yekezareh", "text": "Hashem Yekezareh\n\nHashem Yekezareh () is an Iranian engineer and industrial executive. Previously a senior executive for SAIPA, he serves as the Chairman of the Managing Board of Iran Khodro, Iran's largest car manufacturer since 2013. He was also chairman of Saipa Diesel (12 years), Pars Khodro (7 years) and Iran Khodro Diesel (4 years).\n"}
{"id": "38796579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38796579", "title": "Hellenic Australian Business Council", "text": "Hellenic Australian Business Council\n\nThe Hellenic Australian Business Council, or HABC is a non profit trade and investment development agency that supports bilateral business and political relations between Greece and Australia, as well as providing a forum and platform for information exchange via news, announcements and events such as business forums, roundtables, conferences, missions and road shows.\nThe HABC’s mission is to forge stronger business links between Australia and Greece. Members include key economic and political stakeholders in Greece and Australia: corporations, organisations, trade and investment agencies, as well as distinguished individuals from business, politics, government and academia.\n\nThe Secretariat of the HABC and Director reside in Athens, Greece with branches in Thessaloniki and Heraklion. Meanwhile, strong political and business ties existing in Australia, backed by both the Australian and Greek foreign embassies, as well as leading private enterprises. HABC business partners and members originate from a variety of sectors in both Greece and Australia.\n\nThe Hellenic-Australian Business Council (HABC) was founded in June 2012 in Athens to connect and support bilateral business relations between Greece and Australia, including private enterprise, organisations, foreign trade agencies and investments, as well as corporations with significant commercial interests in Greek and Australian markets or SMEs striving to do so.\nThe HABC is the first organisation established in Greece that provides a direct platform and network for Greek and Australian companies, business and industry groups, as well as other organisations to have regular exchange on trade imports-exports, and investment issues.\n\nThe Hellenic-Australian Business Council (HABC)'s mission is to connect and support bilateral business relations between Greece and Australia, including private commercial enterprises, foreign trade agencies, investors, SMEs, organisations, individuals, political figures, as well as others with significant business interests in the Greek and/or Australian markets - boosting trade.\nFrom trade exports and imports, investment opportunities in key sectors relevant to each market, education prospects, to information on starting a business in Australia and Greece, the HABC is a non-profit, non-governmental agency. HABC endorses members and offers them an avenue to connect with the right trade, investment and business partners. HABC’s services include:\n\nHABC is a Nonprofit organization registered in Greece as an association. It is a non-governmental, non-political association governed by a Board of Directors elected by Members. The Board of Directors, elected for one year from founding members, has the task of attracting new members and driving initiatives and the organisation’s charter. Corporate membership and event sponsorship is the sole source of funding for the Business Council.\n\n\n\n\nHABC’s official partners include bilateral Chambers of Commerce (Hellenic-Australian Chambers of Commerce and Industry), the Australian Embassy in Athens, the Greek Embassy in Canberra, Australia, and Consulates throughout the country, as well as official government agencies and organisations that support trade and investment in both countries, such as Invest in Greece and Austrade. \nFormer Australian Ambassador to Greece, Albania and Bulgaria, H.E. Mrs Jenny Bloomfield -\nDepartment for Foreign Affairs and Trade ‘Ambassadors’ is an honorary member of the Hellenic Australian Business Council, and was influential in its establishment.\n\nMs Jenny Bloomfield is Australia's Ambassador to Greece and non-resident Ambassador to Bulgaria and Albania. Here she discusses the strong community links and the growing trade relationship between Australia and Greece. She also discusses Australia's relations with Albania and Bulgaria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26487188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26487188", "title": "Hospitality consulting", "text": "Hospitality consulting\n\nHospitality consulting is the counsel and expertise given by professionals to hotel owners, operators, restaurant owners, club management, and other professionals in the hospitality industry.\n\nIn the United States, consultants in the hospitality industry generally earn a degree in Hospitality Management. The average salary for consultants starts around $45,000 and can be up to $119,000. Currently, the average salary for a Hospitality Consultant is $80,000.\n\nThe Bureau of Labor Statistics expects hotel management careers, which include related business and financial careers, all of which may require a bachelor's degree in Hospitality Management, to increase more than 17% through 2016. As a result of the global recession, the hospitality industry is experiencing a downturn in revenue and operating profits.\n\n"}
{"id": "22847226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22847226", "title": "I-net Crystal-Clear", "text": "I-net Crystal-Clear\n\ni-net Clear Reports (formerly known as i-net Crystal-Clear) is a Java-based cross-platform reporting application providing a report designer and a server component to create reports in numerous output formats like PDF, HTML, PS, RTF, XLS, TXT, CSV, SVG, XML, as well as being viewable in a Java applet or Swing component. Application programmers can integrate i-net Clear Reports using the public API which spans over 200 classes. Starting with release 11.0 i-net Clear Reports also supports the .NET programming language and offers a public API for further integration in other products.\n\nin Version 11.0 i-net Crystal-Clear was renamed to i-net Clear Reports. At this time it also gained .NET integration as a major feature.\n\ni-net Crystal-Clear was primarily designed to read Crystal Reports templates. It had to be capable of reading the RPT report format and producing a reasonable output. For exporting and saving reasons a new file format had to be created later on, enabling Crystal-Clear to save the API results back and make them editable by a designer.\n\nIn 2002 the first version of i-net DesignerXML, the report designer, was written using Java Swing. The editing concept is slightly different from some other designers, using a band-oriented report template format, meaning that reports are designed based on rows of data.\n\nThe development efforts has changed in more recent years to a full reporting platform approach, rather than the developer-only, framework-based one.\n\nTrue to its roots, i-net Crystal-Clear still has the ability to read and execute Crystal Reports report templates up until the latest versions of Crystal Reports.\n\nUnlike Crystal Reports, however, the i-net Crystal-Clear report file format has always been an open format. Until version 9.0 it was an XML format. Since version 9, the report file format is in a zip-based format similar to OpenDocument.\n\nBeing a Java application, i-net Clear Reports has the ability to run on a variety of platforms and environments. There is virtually no restriction concerning data sources that can be used, as long as there is a JDBC driver available for accessing the data. For non-JDBC data sources, there are how-to's to write simple mini-drivers. With the new .NET API it got even more flexible and allows integration into .NET based applications.\n\ni-net Clear Reports comes as a standalone server as well as a servlet which can be run on any Java EE application server such as Tomcat, Jetty, IIS, or Apache (via PHP).\n\nFeatures can be added using the public API, or by adding custom JavaBeans which can be added to reports. User defined functions (UDF) extend the formula features of the embedded formula calculation routines.\n\n"}
{"id": "9041793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9041793", "title": "Ji Xiao'an", "text": "Ji Xiao'an\n\nJi Xiao'an (; born August 1957) is the chairman of the board of the Beijing Hualian Group. In addition to being chairman of Beijing Hualian, he also has ties to the National Industrial Development Co., Ltd. in Hainan, the Group Investment Holdings Ltd., and the Hualianxin Comprehensive Supermarket Co., Ltd. in Beijing of which he is the incumbent chairman.\n"}
{"id": "41996870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41996870", "title": "Joaquín Bau Nolla", "text": "Joaquín Bau Nolla\n\nJoaquín Bau Nolla (1897–1973) was a Spanish Carlist and Francoist politician.\n\nJoaquín Bau Nolla was born to a bourgeoisie Catalan family. His paternal grandfather Miguel Bau Isern (1836-1911) ran a chocolate manufacture in Tortosa and served as mayor of the city in 1901-1903, co-founding Banc de Tortosa, Cambra Agricola de Tortosa and the local Cambra de Comerç. One of his 16 children and Joaquin's father, José Bau Vergés (1868-1935), was an oil and vinegar trader and producer. He grew from a local merchant, transporting oil on his mules, to \"el rei de l'oli\", the owner of Aceites Bau S.A., a Tortosa-based company operating two factories, selling on the national Spanish market and exporting to South America, especially to Argentina. Following the commercial success, Bau Vergés built an imposing family residence in Tortosa; he was also honorary consul of Uruguay and Argentina, member of local business organizations and a Catholic activist. In 1894 he married María Cinta Nolla Poy, a stonemason's daughter. The couple had 4 children, all brought up in highly religious ambience; Joaquín was their second son.\n\nFollowing his early education in Colegio de San Pedro Apóstol of the Hermanos de las Escuelas Cristianas in Tortosa, the young Joaquín obtained his bachillerato in in Barcelona, to complete military service in Regimiento de guarnición of Tarragona in 1921. Encouraged by his father, he passed commercial broker exams and rose to president of Junta Central de Corredores de Commercio de España in 1935. In 1933 he commenced law studies as unenrolled student and graduated from Faculty of Law of Universidad de Valencia in 1935. In 1920 Joaquín Bau married Pilar Elisa Carpi Esteller. The couple had 5 children; the oldest son Joaquín as a 16-year-old volunteered to the Carlist requeté unit, survived the Civil War and later became an engineer; José Luis served in the army as a lieutenant colonel and military judge, while Fernando practiced as a lawyer and a conservative politician. Between 1967 and 1977 he served in the Francoist Cortes; in 1991 he published \"Crònica de veinte años. 1957-1977\".\n\nThough Joaquín's paternal grandfather was a Liberal his father was already reported as Traditionalist and it was in his footsteps that Joaquín followed. As a youngster and teenager Bau engaged in local Traditionalist juvenile organisations. He became head of the Tortosa section of Requeté, a formation established in 1909 as a sporting and outdoor grouping for the Carlist youth. He seemed particularly fond of social and charity initiatives, organising Christmas for the poor, working in Patronato Escolar Obrero de la Sagrada Familia and co-founding Sindicatos Católicos Obreros. In the early 1920s he already emerged as a dynamic local politician. Once Primo de Rivera replaced the liberal restauración with dictatorship, Bau enthusiastically engaged in the nascent primoderiverista structures; in 1924 he co-founded the Tortosa branch of Unión Patriótica and became its jefe provincial.\n\nDuring the period called \"Bauisme\" in the history of Tortosa, in 1925 Bau was unanimously elected mayor of the city, re-elected in 1928 and holding the post until 1930. His contribution was multifold; during 5 years the Bau-led ayuntamiento executed the plan of public works, consisting of modernization of city streets, refurbishment of public schools and hospitals and setting up regular fire brigade services. He inaugurated Instituto Nacional de Segunda Ensenanza and Escuela de Trabajo, expanded local railway line and enhanced the county road network. Much of his activity was about tackling Ebro-related issues, like floods, navigation, bridges or land re-cultivation. Largely successful and sort of celebrated by Alfonso de Borbón and the dictator as one of the youngest mayors, he nevertheless failed in his attempt to elevate Tortosa - since 1833 part of the Tarragona province - to the provincial capital range, the new unit to be carved out from these of Tarragona, Castellón and Teruel.\n\nThough dictatorship was initially welcomed by the Carlists as a stepping stone towards a Traditionalist monarchy, in 1925 the claimant Don Jaime switched to opposition. Bau decided not to follow suit and went on contributing to the regime; in literature he is usually listed along Victor Pradera and Esteban Bilbao as one of those Carlists who abandoned their king and joined the primoderiverista version of the Alfonsine monarchy. In 1927 he was appointed to the quasi-parliament, , standing as representative of Organizaciones provinciales de Unión Patriótica and representative of the Ayuntamientos; in the chamber he became one of the youngest members. He kept supporting the dictator by staging welcome celebrations in Tortosa and organizing manifestations of tortosinos in Madrid in 1928. In 1929 Bau was re-elected jefe of the local Unión Patriótica, engaged in , animated the youth branch named Juventud Patriótica and until 1930s financed a local Tortosa periodical, \"Unión Patriótica\". He is deemed responsible for 1929 expulsion from the city of , at that time a Republican activist in serious health condition.\n\nBau ceased as Tortosa mayor in 1930; in 1931 he was accused of financial irregularities, though none of the charges raised has been concluded. As three Traditionalist branches united in 1932 Bau resumed his service to the legitimist king rejoining the Carlist organization, . Within its structures he was heading the local Tortosa Requeté; as member of the Tarragona branch he had to accept leadership of the provincial jefe, Juan Maria Roma. In the 1933 elections he represented Carlism within the local Tarragonese Unió Ciutadana alliance and was successfully elected. As a result, he emerged one of key figures in the Levantine Carlism, especially in the comarcas of Terres de l'Ebre, though following the death of Jaime Chicharro also in Castellón.\n\nVoicing his support for the Catalan identity Bau has nevertheless opposed the adopted as irreconcilable with the Spanish raison d'etat and produced by \"traidores a su Patria y a su honor\". He demanded its derogation and replacement with a new autonomous statute, constructed along Traditionalist lines and properly reflecting the genuine personality of Catalonia. He sided with Francesc Cambó against the Catalan left-wing autonomism and supported Catalan landowners in the notorious Catalan Leases Act case. He also encouraged new Christian syndicates of the Tarragona province, confederated in Agrupacion Gremial de Trabajadores. In October 1934 he was active mounting local opposition to the revolutionary sway; his close collaborator, , co-ordinated action against the rebels in the province and was later appointed governors' delegate for Public Order. In 1935 Bau arranged for Guardia de Asalto detachment to be stationed in Tortosa.\nBy many Carlists Bau was viewed with suspicion. This was due to his enthusiasm when engaging in alliance talks with the Alfonsinos and personal friendship with their leader, José Calvo Sotelo; though new Traditionalist jefe Manuel Fal approached Bloque Nacional as tactical option to be eventually abandoned, Bau was suspected of pushing for a dynastical compromise. In the spring of 1935 Don Alfonso Carlos and Fal considered Bau's activity in the Bloque intolerable and semi-rebellious. Also present-day scholars name his position as \"conspiration\", while others claim that he was loyal to Calvo rather than to Traditionalism. However, he was allowed to speak at massive Carlist meetings in Poblet and at Montserrat; he was also appointed to the Carlist Council of Economy.\n\nPrior to the 1936 elections Bau advocated the strategy of a broad Right-wing alliance, an option which has never materialized; himself he competed on the list of Front Català d'Ordre and was elected from Tarragona. Shortly after the Frente Popular triumph was declared Bau and Calvo visited the prime minister Portela Valladares urging him to call the military and rule by decree; this was probably the most charged moment in his entire career. Once Lorenzo Maria Alier resigned as Carlist Catalan jefe in February 1936 one of the options considered was a triumvirate including Bau, but eventually it was Tomàs Caylà appointed the new regional leader.\n\nThough until the summer of 1936 Bau was active in the Cortes, he was heavily engaged in anti-Republican conspiracy, serving as a Carlist link to Renovación Española. Following the death of Calvo Sotelo he travelled to Portugal to negotiate details of the rebellion with José Sanjurjo, personally witnessing the crash of general's aircraft. Since Bau was originally scheduled to communicate uprising orders to requeté units in southern Catalonia, his departure impaired Carlist insurgent structures in Terres de l'Ebre. Shortly after the hostilities broke out he returned from Portugal to Burgos in the Nationalist zone.\n\nEarly September 1936 the supreme governing body of the rebels, , constituted Comisión de Industria y Comercio, a substitute for Ministry of Economy. Bau, considered by Franco one of the more collaborative Carlists, was appointed one of its seven members; his high nomination was allegedly related to ability to arrange finance through Catalan contacts who had fled abroad. A month later the newly established set up Comisión de Industria, Comercio y Abastos with Bau appointed its president, the de facto minister of economy in the Nationalist zone. As head of 7 commissions formed and one of 16 members of the Junta Técnica, he rapidly grew to top Nationalist executive.\n\nBau's primary task was to keep production running and to build the gold deposit reserve of the Nationalists; he was subsequently involved in currency reform, first organizing the stamping of pre-War notes and then arranging for a new Nationalist peseta to be printed in Germany. The next objective was to control foreign trade and direct the flow of deficient components accordingly, which was attempted by numerous regulatory means. At that time Bau considered himself an advocate of the \"directed\" economy; as an economist he was considered a disciple of Calvo Sotelo. Heavily involved in dealings with semi-official Nazi companies, HISMA and ROWAK, he objected to increase of German stakes, though key decisions were probably beyond his capacity. He hugely contributed to the Nationalist logistics by closing international deals covering 600 Fiat cars and 1,000 Studebaker chassis.\n\nBau's relations with Carlism are not clear. According to one source, he took advantage of his position by procuring arms designed specifically for the requetés; according to another, starting late 1936 he assisted in organization of Terç de Requetès de la Mare de Déu de Montserrat, the requeté battalion consisting of Carlist refugees from Catalonia. On the other hand, he is not known to have protested against Franco's measures against Manuel Fal; even detailed studies dealing with amalgamation of Carlism within Francoism in 1936-7 do not mention Bau, which suggests that at that time he was already hardly involved in Traditionalism. It seems that he unconditionally accepted and was leading Catalan Carlists co-operating with Franco; some scholars compare the role he played in Catalonia to the role played by Tomás Domínguez Arévalo in Vasco-Navarrese area. Considered rebellious by Manuel Fal and the new regent-claimant Don Javier, at an unspecified date he was expulsed from Carlism.\n\nBau's influence started to decline once Ramón Serrano Suñer arrived in Burgos. Upon arrival he was already averse towards Bau as late 1936 Franco decided that it would be the family of Bau, not the family of Serrano, to be exchanged with the Republicans for the family of general Miaja. The animosity grew during 1937, when Bau opposed totalitarian designs pursued by Franco's cuñado. When the first regular Francoist government was created early 1938 Bau was not even considered. In the spring of 1938 he left Burgos, settling in San Sebastián.\n\nTogether with many Catalan industry tycoons taking refuge in the Gipuzkoan capital, Bau engaged in plans to re-create regional economic institutions once Catalonia would be retaken by the Nationalist troops. He was offered presidency of , the regional agricultural organization, but declined quoting his hostile relations with Serrano. Indeed, the internal Falangist document denounced him as one of the leaders of local \"plutocratas y alta burguesia\" who conspired against the national-syndicalist state.\n\nBau kept supporting the Catalan Montserrat battalion. He remained involved in numerous charity projects, like . The most important of Bau's ventures of that period was probably helping the Catalan Republican POWs. Personal acquaintance of officers commanding Campos de Concentración and Comisíon Clasificadora, Bau did his best to release Catalan prisoners and enlist them either in the Carlist tercios or in the Falangist banderas. Following the end of the war he returned to Tortosa, though he is not listed as taking part in the Carlist-Falangist competition for power in Catalonia.\n\nBau was not invited to the victory parade of May 19, 1939. Though sidetracked in great national politics, he remained engaged in clandestine and extremely sensitive Francoist business schemes. In 1941-42 he managed the deal with Nazi Oberkommando der Marine, supervising construction of 20 wooden ships intended to supply German troops fighting the British in Africa. Later on he kept exchanging courteous but purely formal correspondence with Franco. In the 1940s Bau dedicated himself to family issues, various Catholic organizations and business; he became the first post-war president of Banco de Tortosa and later multiplied his wealth by trading shares of the bank, going on also with the inherited Aceites Bau business. Privately he pursued his interest in organ music.\n\nBau led one of 3 competing Traditionalist Tarragona factions, namely the one opposing Carloctavistas and javieristas and promoting rapprochement with the Alfonsist claimant, Don Juan. The Tortosa javierista Carlists distributed leaflets presenting him as Francoist traitor who ignored the lot of requetés detained by the Francoist administration. He apparently acknowledged that a future kingdom must encompass Francoist structures. His private papers from mid-1950s suggest that Bau, though with hesitation, tended to support what seemed a long-distance Franco's plan for crowning prince Juan Carlos. However, when in 1957 he joined the Carlists who abandoned the regent-claimant Don Javier, Bau declared Juan Carlos' father, Don Juan, the legitimate heir and continued to approach him as a king.\n\nAs in mid-1950s Franco shelved totalitarian plans and opted for a hybrid line of development, he started looking for loyal individuals not associated with Falangism; 1958 produced huge turnover of nominated to the quasi-parliament, Cortes Españolas. The dictator appointed Bau member of Consejo Nacional of the Falange, which automatically ensured the Cortes mandate. He got his seat confirmed in 5 successive legislatives, appointed also in 1961, 1964, 1967 and 1971. As his career was re-launched, Bau kept assuming higher and higher posts. In 1963 he started leading various parliamentary committees, formally nominated president of the internal affairs committee in 1964, president of Leyes Fundamentales committee in 1965 and then other committees working on new constitutional laws. In 1965 he was appointed president of , a body adding to extreme complexity of Francoist power structures and being part of Franco's recipe for political balance. The appointment produced his nomination to , another body with some competencies related to monarchical establishments. In 1970 Bau was nominated its vice-president. As one of the regime's highest dignitaries in the late 1960s he became one of faces of Francoism. Shortly before his death he was made .\nBau's rise from political non-existence to president of Consejo de Estado in just 7 years was possible as he proved acceptable to most groupings competing for power within Francoism. Deprived of own political background, he posed no threat and might have been considered as sympathetic to their cause by Carlists, monarchists, (by virtue of his business activities and friendship with López Rodó), the Church and even the military (maintained friendly relations with many high-ranking generals); it was only the Falangist syndicalists that he remained at odds with. Bau, always impeccably elegant, boosted his career by oratory skills and non-belligerent, silky presiding style in numerous bodies of the regime, excelling in conflict management and demonstrating sort of impartiality, combined with perfect loyalty to Franco.\n\nBau's own political outlook may be summarised as a watered-down authoritarian, non-dynastical monarchism based on diehard (marchamartillo) Catholicism. Following his return to great politics in 1958 he emerged as one of the most prominent monarchists, contributing to shaping of late Francoism in course of works on various key legal structures of the system. Far from political militancy, starting mid-1960s Bau began to press the monarchical cause by advocating adoption of and . Mocked by some critics as himself the best successor to Franco, Bau could have considered his efforts crowned when Juan Carlos was officially confirmed as Franco's successor in 1969, though as late as 1970 he kept fighting the regentialistas, first headed by Muñoz Grandez and than by . When in the early 1970s advising Juan Carlos on prospective course to be adopted, he suggested as the man for future. He retained Catalan identity taking part in a number of regional initiatives and bodies, always perfectly within the limits permitted by the regime.\n\nJoaquín Bau is commemorated by a very short street in Madrid, a parking-lot-plaza in the Ferreries district of Tortosa (until 2017) and a long backyard drive in the resort town of Benicasim, where the family owns a summer residence purchased by Bau in the 1950s; some of them are subject to various initiatives aiming at purging public space from Francoist or Fascist symbols. No trace of Bau having been named \"hijo predilecto\" of Tortosa in 1966 can be found on the official ayuntamiento web page. Since 1956 until 2018 one of Tortosa colleges was named \"Institut Joaquín Bau\" (today \"Institut Dertosa\"), though there was a failed attempt to change the patron in 1983. Bau's biography, in large part a hagiographical compilation of his correspondence from the private archive, was published in 2001; the author defined Bau as a conservative monarchist and played down Carlist threads, ignoring also most controversial episodes from his lifetime. Condado de Bau is still functional and currently remains held by Bau's grandson.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5346187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5346187", "title": "Johnny Jones (pioneer)", "text": "Johnny Jones (pioneer)\n\nJohn \"Johnny\" Jones (March 1809 – 16 March 1869) was a pioneer settler in New Zealand.\n\nBorn in Sydney, Jones was the third son of Thomas Jones, one of the early settlers in New South Wales. He spent his early life on sealing and whaling ships, before becoming a ferryman at Port Jackson. He had an entrepreneurial streak and invested his savings in a way that by the age of 20, he had interests in three whaling ships. He married Sarah Sizemore on 7 January 1828 in Sydney, and they had 11 children, although two died as infants. John Richard Jones was his eldest son.\n\nIn 1835 Jones and Edwin Palmer went into a partnership to purchase a whaling station in New Zealand and a schooner for whaling. Within the next few years, his shrewd business skills allowed him to gain a controlling interest in seven New Zealand whaling stations.\n\nIn 1838 he bought a whaling station and land near Waikouaiti, and also purchased a large area of land from Ngai Tahu chief \"Bloody Jack\" Tuhawaiki, amounting to a considerable part of what is now North and Central Otago. Much of this purchase was later annulled when South Island lands were ceded to the Crown. After long wrangling, Jones was eventually allowed to keep some .\n\nIn 1840, Jones' Waikouaiti station became the organised settlement in the eastern South Island known as Matanaka Farm. About a dozen families from Sydney were settled close to the station as a farming community, providing food for the station, growing crops and raising sheep and cattle.\n\nFinancial constraints led Jones to move permanently to New Zealand with his family in 1843, dividing his time between Waikouaiti and Wellington. The decline of whaling forced him to close the Waikouaiti station in the late 1840s, and he concentrated on developing his farm which soon became an important food source for the new settlement of Dunedin, where he moved in 1854. During the early days of settlement in Dunedin, Jones' shipping and trading interests set him up as the chief rival to James Macandrew.\n\nIn 1861, Jones asked Dr. William Chapman, then of Christchurch, to be the GP for the Waikouaiti community. \n\nDuring the 1860s, Jones' interests again turned to shipping, firstly as a shareholder of the short-lived Otago Steam Ship Company, and then through his own venture, the Harbour Steam Navigation Company, which served the ports of Dunedin, Port Chalmers, and Oamaru, and later also traded with Hokitika on the West Coast.\n\nJones had little interest in politics, and refused a position offered by Edward Stafford on the New Zealand Legislative Council. He did, however, serve as chairman of the Dunedin Town Board in 1856. Jones died in Dunedin in 1869, and is buried in the city's Southern Cemetery. His eldest son was an executor of his will and was thus instrumental in the amalgamation of various shipping companies to form the Union Steam Ship Company.\n"}
{"id": "49531956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49531956", "title": "Juraj Vaculík", "text": "Juraj Vaculík\n\nJuraj Vaculík has over twenty years’ experience of working as a leader with very broad experiences from political revolution to international media and advertising industry. In 2010, Juraj co-founded AeroMobil and manages the company as its CEO. He also acts as an angel investor with investments into successful start-up projects in the media content, IT, and alternative transport sectors throughout Europe and the US.\n\nDuring Velvet Revolution in 1989 which ends communist era in former Czechoslovakia Juraj Vaculík was one of the key persons in Student Movement which has started process of democratization and established new post-revolution government in Slovakia.\n\nAt the beginning of the 90’s he started his career as a creative director for major global advertising agencies which started their operations in Czech and Slovak republics. In 1996 Juraj founded MADE BY VACULIK - one of the leading independent advertising agencies in the CEE region, extending its reach to over 30 countries.\n\nIn 2010 Juraj co-founded AeroMobil and manages the company as its CEO. In 2013, together with the inventor and co-founder Stefan Klein, he unveiled the pre-prototype of AeroMobil 2.5 at the SAE Conference in Montreal. A year later, an experimental prototype of AeroMobil 3.0 was developed under his lead with the team of 12 people and presented at the Pioneers festival in Vienna. At the beginning of 2015, AeroMobil successfully attracted the attention of visitors and potential customers at the most prestigious supercars show, Top Marques Monaco alongside the prestigious sports vehicles from around the world. Later in June, AeroMobil was presented at the Founders Forum event in the UK, where it caught the attention of many visitors and the Financial Times. In October, the public experienced the prototype at the EXPO in Milan, where it was part of the Slovak exposition. Renowned magazine, Popular Science, presented AeroMobil with Invention of the Year 2015 award and UK edition od Wired magazine ranked the project among the top 10 rule breakers in 2014r.\n\n"}
{"id": "39316008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39316008", "title": "Kim Cham", "text": "Kim Cham\n\nKim Cham Yau-sum JP (born 16 April 1946, Hong Kong) is a Hong Kong businessman, accountant and politician.\n\nHe studied at the St. Paul's Co-Educational College and graduated from the University of Hong Kong with bachelor's degree in Economics in 1968. He continued his master's degree at the Queen's University in Canada and later the doctoral degree at the University of Bath in England. He also obtained a certificate in Business Education at the Harvard Business School and a diploma in financial management at the University of New England in Australia.\n\nHe is the fellow of the British Institute of Management, Institute of Canadian Bankers (FICB), associate member of the Australian Society of Accountants and Hong Kong Society of Accountants.\n\nHe came to politics when he was appointed as a member of the Urban Council. He was later appointed to the Legislative Council in 1984 by Governor Edward Youde. He served as the chairman of the Hong Kong Future Exchanges.\n"}
{"id": "54029882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54029882", "title": "Lee Chik-yuet", "text": "Lee Chik-yuet\n\nLee Chik-yuet (; born 20 May 1954) is a Hong Kong social worker, lawyer, politician and businessman. He is the former member of the Urban Council of Hong Kong and member of the Sham Shui Po District Board.\n\nLee was born on 20 May 1954 in Shantou, Guangzhou and moved to Hong Kong in 1961 during the Great Famine of China. He graduated from the Shau Kei Wan Government Secondary School and attended the Chinese University of Hong Kong in 1975. He was involved in student activism at the time, including the editorial works at the student newspaper. He was under influence of Tsang Shu-ki, the prominent theorist of the \"social action faction\" at the time who introduced him New Left, existentialist and Frankfurt School theories. \n\nAfter being graduated in 1979 with a Bachelor's Degree in Social Science, Lee became social worker at the Hong Kong Christian Social Service, serving at Lei Cheng Uk Estate in Sham Shui Po. He first contested in the first reformed Urban Council election in 1983 alongside Frederick Fung. In 1983, he became a member of Meeting Point, the first political group to publicly support Chinese sovereignty of Hong Kong after 1997. He was re-elected to Urban Council in 1986 and did not seek re-election in 1989. He was also vice-chairman of Meeting Point under the chairmanship of Anthony Cheung. He supported Chris Patten's constitutional reform proposal which split in the party in half. In 1994, he became member of the first executive committee of the Democratic Party when the new party was founded as a merger of the United Democrats of Hong Kong and Meeting Point.\n\nIn 1990 and 1994, Lee was graduated with a Bachelor's Degree and Masters Degree in Laws from the University of Hong Kong respectively. He provided legal consultations to various Chinese and Hong Kong companies. He is currently an executive director of the New Ray Medicine International Holding Limited and the Town Health International Medical Group Limited.\n"}
{"id": "27080854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27080854", "title": "List of centenarians (businesspeople)", "text": "List of centenarians (businesspeople)\n\nThe following is a list of centenarians – specifically, people who became famous as businesspeople – known for reasons other than their longevity. For more lists, see lists of centenarians.\n"}
{"id": "5546799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5546799", "title": "List of swimwear brands", "text": "List of swimwear brands\n\nThis is a list of notable swimwear brands and manufacturers.\n"}
{"id": "36714333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36714333", "title": "Louisiana Center for Women in Government and Business Hall of Fame", "text": "Louisiana Center for Women in Government and Business Hall of Fame\n\nThe Louisiana Center for Women in Government and Business Hall of Fame recognizes women natives or residents of the U.S. state of Louisiana for their significant achievements or statewide contributions. Among the inductees are men whose contributions to supporting strong women were deemed significant. The Center is headquartered at Nicholls State University in Thibodaux and was established in 1991 to promote and encourage government and public service leadership of women. The first Hall of Fame inductions occurred in March 1994 during Women's History Month.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36719992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36719992", "title": "Martin Garlieb Amsinck", "text": "Martin Garlieb Amsinck\n\nMartin Garlieb Amsinck (born 23 September 1831 in Hamburg, died 10 April 1905 in Hamburg) was a German shipbuilder and ship-owner. He was one of the major ship-owners of Hamburg. He was a member of Hanseatic Amsinck family and the son of Johannes Amsinck and Emilie Gossler. Unlike his four brothers, he did not join the family company, but started his own shipbuilding company.\n\n"}
{"id": "417037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=417037", "title": "Merchandise Mart", "text": "Merchandise Mart\n\nThe Merchandise Mart (or the Merch Mart, or the Mart) is a commercial building located in downtown Chicago, Illinois. When it was opened in 1930, it was the largest building in the world, with of floor space. The art deco structure is located at the junction of the Chicago River's branches. The building is a leading retailing and wholesale destination, hosting 20,000 visitors and tenants per day as of the late 2000s.\n\nBuilt by Marshall Field & Co. and later owned for over half a century by the Kennedy family, the Mart centralized Chicago's wholesale goods business by consolidating architectural and interior design vendors and trades under a single roof. It has since become home to several other enterprises, including the Shops at the Mart, the Chicago campus of the Illinois Institute of Art, Motorola Mobility, and the Chicago tech startup center 1871.\n\nThe Merchandise Mart is so large that it had its own ZIP code (60654) until 2008, when the Postal Service assigned it to part of the surrounding area. In 2010, the building opened its Design Center showrooms to the public for the first time.\n\nIn 1926, a westward extension of double-deck Wacker Drive increased development on the south riverbank. In 1927, Marshall Field & Co. announced its plans to build on the north bank opposite Wacker Drive. The site, bordered by Orleans Street, Wells Street, Kinzie Street and the Chicago River, was formerly a Native American trading post and the site of Chicago and North Western Railway's former Wells Street Station, abandoned in 1911 in favor of the Chicago and North Western Passenger Terminal. With the railroad's air rights, the site was large enough to accommodate \"the largest building in the world\". Removing the train yard supported the Chicago Plan Commission's desire to develop and beautify the riverfront.\n\nJames Simpson, president of Marshall Field & Co. from 1923 to 1930 and chairman of the Chicago Plan Commission from 1926 to 1935, turned the first shovels of dirt at groundbreaking on August 16, 1928, along with architect Ernest Graham. General contractor John W. Griffiths & Sons brought building construction into the machine age through the use of techniques \"ordinarily used in the construction of big dams.\" Concrete arriving by boat was lifted by compressed air to bins above the ground, with gravel and sand delivered by railroad cars to conveyor belts and transfer elevators. Giant mixers provided wet concrete to skip hoists in vertical towers that were extended as the building rose. Continuously employing 2,500 men and as many as 5,700 men altogether, the construction project lasted a year and a half into the early months of the Great Depression. With a foundation footprint of nearly two square city blocks, the building required 29 million bricks, of plumbing, of wiring, nearly of concrete, of stone, and 4,000 windows. Bethlehem Steel fabricated much of the 60,000 tons of steel. An estimated of corridors and over 30 elevators were included in the construction. The total cost of construction was estimated to be $26 million.\n\nThe Merchandise Mart opened on May 5, 1930, just east of Chicago's original trading post, Wolf Point.\n\nThe building realized Marshall Field’s dream of a single wholesale center for the entire nation and consolidated 13 different warehouses. It was purchased in 1945 or 1946, depending on the source, by the Kennedy family through Merchandise Mart Properties, Inc., and managed by Sargent Shriver. The purchase price was $13 million, roughly half of what it had cost to construct the complex twenty years earlier. The building revenues became a principal source of Kennedy family wealth, including being a source of political campaign funding. \n\nThe Kennedy family sold much of the complex center property to Vornado Realty Trust in 1998 as part of a larger $625 million ($ million in current dollars) transaction, That year, MMPI was acquired by Vornado for $450 million cash and a $100 million-plus stake in Vornado. As of early 2007, the building was valued at $917 million.\n\nThe Merchandise Mart was modernized in the late 1950s and 1960s. The Indian chiefs were removed and replaced with concrete plates in 1961, of minimal note to onlookers as skyscrapers did not rise on the north side of the river as predicted. Some of the carvings were later found in a suburban backyard and auctioned in 2014. In 1962, an entrance canopy was constructed over the south for vehicle use.\n\nIn 1977, Skidmore, Owings & Merrill designed the Chicago Apparel Center, located on the west side of Orleans Street, which increased the Merchandise Mart’s total floor space to . Making use of plazas, esplanades and overlooks employed the waterfront location for pedestrian pleasure. In 1988, Helmut Jahn designed an enclosed pedestrian walking bridge over Orleans Street connecting the Mart and the Apparel Center.\n\nAfter a 10-year, $100 million modernization in the late 1980s that included public utility upgrades, Beyer Blinder Belle's commission in 1989 was to create additional perimeter entrances and restore the display windows, main entrance and lobby. On the south facade, the drive-through canopy was removed and two smaller doorways aside the main entrance were added. Display windows, painted over during the earlier modernization campaign, were restored with clear glass to showcase merchant's wares. New main and corner entrances were added to the rear facade, and the loading dock that occupied the north portion of the first floor of the river level was removed in order to use the bottom deck of North Bank Drive. Improvements to the lobby included restoration of the original glass curtain wall over the entrance, shop fronts and reception desk using terrazzo floors and wall sconces influenced by the original design. The project was completed in 1991.\n\nIn November 2007, the building received LEED for Existing Buildings Silver recognition.\n\nThe Merchandise Mart was designed by the Chicago architectural firm of Graham, Anderson, Probst and White to be a \"city within a city\". Second only to Holabird & Root in Chicago art deco architecture, the firm had a long-standing relationship with the Field family. Started in 1928, completed in 1931, and built in the same art deco style as the Chicago Board of Trade Building, its cost was reported as both $32 million and $38 million. The building was the largest in the world in terms of floorspace, but was surpassed by the Pentagon in 1943, and now stands forty-fourth on the list of largest buildings in the world. Once the largest commercial space in the world, New Century Global Center in China is now recognized by Guinness World Records as holding the record.\n\nDesigner Alfred Shaw integrated art deco stylings with influences from three building types—the warehouse, the department store and the skyscraper. A warehouse block stands as the 18-story bulk of the building. Ribbon piers define the windows, and the building's chamfered corners, minimal setbacks, and corner pavilions disguise the edges of the mass and visually reduce bulk. The south corner pavilions are of greater height than the north corner pavilions. The building is open at the pedestrian level with bronzed framed display windows, typical of a department store, on the south, west and east boundaries. The 25-story central tower ascends with a peak in the form of a skyscraper, and rests in the southern half of the building. Deeply recessed portals occur between raised panels, and are adorned with medallions featuring the interlocked initials of the Merchandise Mart. The same logo occurs throughout the building. Fifty-six American Indian chiefs circled the tower's crown, a reference to the site's history and Chicago's early trade activities. Three and a half feet wide by seven feet tall, the terra cotta figures were barely visible from the street, meant to be viewed from the upper floors of the skyscrapers planned to rise along the riverbank.\n\nThe lobby of The Merchandise Mart is defined by eight square marble piers, with storefronts in side aisles framed in embossed bronze trim. The green and orange terrazzo floor was conceived as a carpet: a pattern of squares and stripes bordered by overscaled chevrons inlaid with The Mart's initials. The chevron theme is continued in the column sconces lighting an ornamented cornice overhead. Referred to as \"business boulevards\", two wide long corridors with terrazzo floors in the upper levels featured six and one-half miles of display windows. Building regulations specified identical entrances along corridors but tenants could personalize the individual floor space. Excepting the corridors, elevator halls, and exhibition space on the fourth floor, the of each upper floor was \"raw space\" with concrete floors.\n\nJules Guerin's frieze of 17 murals is the primary feature of the lobby and graphically illustrate commerce throughout the world, including the countries of origin for items sold in the building. The murals depict the industries and products, the primary mode of transportation and the architecture of 14 countries. Drawing on years as a stage set designer, Guerin executed the murals in red with gold leaf using techniques producing distinct image layers in successive planes. In a panel representing Italy, Venetian glassware appears in the foreground with fishing boats moored on the Grand Canal and the facade of the Palazzo Ducale rises above the towers of the Piazza San Marco.\n\n\"To immortalize outstanding American merchants\", Joseph Kennedy in 1953 commissioned eight bronze busts, four times life size, which would come to be known as the Merchandise Mart Hall of Fame:\nAll of the busts rest on white pedestals lining the Chicago River and face north toward the gold front door of the building.\n\nDominating the skyline in the south end of the Near North Side, the Mart lies just south of the gallery district on the southern terminus of Franklin Street. Eateries and nightclubs abound on Hubbard Street one block to the north. The Kinzie Chophouse, popular with politicians and celebrities, stands on the northwest corner of Wells and Kinzie, across from the Merchandise Mart. The Chicago Varnish Company Building, listed on the National Register of Historic Places and now housing Harry Caray's restaurant, is located east on Kinzie Street. Across the street to the east is 325 N. Wells Street, home to The Chicago School of Professional Psychology and DIRTT Environmental Solutions.\n\nThe Mart is not rectangular in shape due to being constructed after the bascule bridges over the Chicago River. The control house for the double decked Wells Street Bridge stands between the lower level and the southeast corner of the building. The Franklin Street Bridge stands at the southwest corner of the building, at the junction of Orleans Street and Franklin Street. The building slants at the same angle as Franklin Street, from southeast to northwest along Orleans Street.\n\nA heritage of lighting the structure finds the central and corner towers, along with the columns between each window on the setbacks, bathed nightly in an upwardly focused white light. Tradition dictates annual changes to green in mid-March for St. Patrick's Day and orange during the fall months around Halloween and Thanksgiving. Prominent events have found the behemoth lit in pink for Cancer Awareness Month. To note the 2006 Chicago Bears season, highlighted by reaching Super Bowl XLI, the building was lit with team colors, orange floodlights for the setbacks and blue floodlights for the towers. Red and green lights are used during the Christmas season. During the Art Chicago 2008 the American artist Jenny Holzer illuminated the facade of the building with a poem by the Polish winner of the Nobel Prize in Literature Wisława Szymborska. In 2018, a large projection screen will begin displaying images and videos across the structure's riverfront side.\n\nNighttime lighting on the Mart typically matches the colors of antenna lighting on the Sears Tower and John Hancock Center, as well as the colors used on the top floors of the Aon Center.\n\nUnder Chris Kennedy's leadership of the Mart, it was the largest building in the world to be awarded LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Certification in 2007 from the United States Green Building Council (USGBC). The Mart has long been implementing sustainable practices. The Mart Center began operating a thermal storage facility in 1986, capable of building of ice per night, cooling 71 buildings in the surrounding neighborhood, and saving $200,000 in electricity costs in the first year.\n\nIn 1990, the Mart Center began using Green Seal-approved green cleaning products and the next year implemented a recycling program, which today includes all forms of paper products, glass, light bulbs, batteries, aluminum and construction materials. In 1996, the Mart Center became one of the first major property owners in downtown Chicago to enter into an agreement with the district cooling system now known as Thermal Chicago, thus contributing to the national effort to reduce the discharge of ozone-damaging CFCs.\n\nIn 2006, MMPI joined Clean Air Counts, a voluntary initiative to reduce smog forming pollutants and energy consumption in the Chicago area. Part of the campaign strategies included utilizing only low VOC cleaning products, paints and building materials, as well as energy efficient lighting and alternative workplace transportation options. To date, the Mart Center has reduced pollution by , the largest reduction by a commercial building.\n\nThat same year, the Mart Center recycling program saved over 13,000 trees and recycled nearly 11 million pounds of waste, while water conservation efforts saved of water. More than eight percent of the estimated 10,000 people working at the Mart walk, bike or take public transportation; to encourage greener methods of transportation, the Mart expanded bicycle storage capacity to more than 200. In 2009, MMPI converted all stationery to a one hundred percent post-consumer recycled product. \n\nThe Mart has nine LEED-certified showrooms, with five others on their way to LEED certification.\n\nWholesale showrooms occupy 50% of the usable floor space, and the Sultan of Brunei once spent $1.6 million at the Mart to furnish his entire palace, claiming the location was the only place where the task could be completed in one week. Select showrooms are open only to wholesalers, with others accessible to the general public. Unlike stores with traditional shelf and rack displays, entire usable rooms are created, providing consumers an opportunity to compare form and function between applications and manufacturers. A portion of the stores offer items for purchase singly or as a collection, while others offer design services, preservation, renovation, or installation. In addition to being a resource for architects and decorators, the Mart also has featured award-winning designs as selected by the American Institute of Architects. Catering to suppliers, on-site firms specialize in providing professional services for market research projects.\n\nIn 1931, Marshall Field and Company lost five million dollars, followed by eight million in 1932. The wholesale division was greatly reduced and Field's reduced its space in the Mart from four floors to one and half. The Mart continued to display the latest trends in home furnishings within the showrooms and trade shows. The company recovered late in the decade, but did not return to all previously occupied space.\n\nIn 1942, L. L. Skaggs formed a partnership with three other men and named the partnership the Owners Service Company, hence Osco. The headquarters moved from Waterloo, Iowa, to the Merchandise Mart.\n\nA retail shopping area, named The Shops at the Mart, opened in 1991 and includes apparel shops, beauty services, bookstores and newsstands, financial services, telecommunication services, travel services, specialty food and wine stores, photo services, a dry cleaner, shoe shine stand, and a food court. A U.S. Post Office is located on the first floor and a FedEx location is on the second floor.\n\nThe Apparel Center houses the 521-room Holiday Inn Chicago Mart Plaza River North hotel, the offices of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" and the Chicago campus of the Illinois Institute of Art – Chicago, as well as the Chicago office of the Ogilvy & Mather advertising agency. GoHealth occupies on the 5th floor of Merchandise Mart, the Potbelly Sandwich Works' corporate offices are located in the tower. Motorola Mobility moved its headquarters to the Merchandise Mart in 2014.\n\nSince 1969, the Merchandise Mart has been home to the annual National Exposition of Contract Furnishings, known as NeoCon. With over 1,000 exhibitors of contract and commercial furnishings, and 50,000 attendees, it is the largest trade show of its kind in North America.\n\nSince 2006 the Merchandise Mart has played host to the Art Chicago international art fair.\n\nBefore the location even opened, NBC announced plans to build studios in the Mart. When opened on October 20, 1930, the nineteenth floor location covered and supported a variety of live broadcasts including those requiring orchestras. WENR and WMAQ broadcast from the location. Expanded in 1935, with office space in the previously unoccupied tower, the additional provided room for an organ chamber, two echo rooms, and a total of 11 studios. A staff of more than 300 produced up to 1,700 programs each month, including \"Amos 'n' Andy\".\n\nHugh Downs contributed to the Burr Tillstrom children's show \"Kukla, Fran and Ollie\" from the NBC studios after the network picked up the program from WBKB. The \"Captain Midnight\" radio program was broadcast from the Mart from 1942 until 1945.\n\nWMAQ and WMAQ-TV moved to the NBC Tower in 1990 (even though the radio station had been sold to Westinghouse Broadcasting two years earlier). (Today, the former NBC space is being utilized by Tribeca Flashpoint Media Arts Academy as a learning site for Film + Broadcast productions.) WMAQ's former sister FM station, WKQX, stayed at the Merchandise Mart; renamed WIQI, as of May 2012 it still occupies space on the west side of the second floor, along with co-owned WLUP. As of 2014 WKQX has returned to its former Merchandise Mart location, however the station is expected to move to a new facility at NBC Tower by summer 2016.\n\nOn January 7, 1949, NBC station WNBQ commercially debuted its television broadcast schedule on channel 5, with a minimum of two hours of programming per day. April 15, 1956, is remembered as \"C-Day\" at WMAQ-TV, and was described by Broadcasting-Telecasting magazine as \"a daring breakthrough the black-and-white curtain.\" With Mayor Richard J. Daley looking on, NBC President David Sarnoff operated the controls as Channel 5 became the world's first all-color TV station as \"Wide, Wide World\" was broadcast to 110 NBC-TV affiliated stations across the country. The color conversion project cost more than $1,250,000 with advertising costing $175,000. On \"C-Day\", three skywriting planes flew over the city, trailing streams of red, green and blue smoke.\n\nWMAQ-TV first installed color equipment in late 1953, with the Rose Bowl parade of 1954 as the first major broadcast. Introduced in March 1955, the first local color program was John Ott's \"How Does Your Garden Grow?\", featuring the use of time-lapse color film.\n\nAlthough WMAQ-TV has since moved to NBC Tower about a mile away, and for the most part the 19th floor of the Mart has been turned into office space, one former tenant (Bankers Life and Trust Company) maintained a remnant of the original studios as their video and multimedia department. The former WMAQ space is currently being redeveloped by Flashpoint Academy as a full modern soundstage facility as well as a screening room, backlot, and classroom space over the 19th and 20th floors.\n\nLocal regional sports network Comcast SportsNet Chicago has their control room, and broadcasts their live studio programming from the Apparel Center expansion; the studios had been home to previous RSNs FSN Chicago and SportsChannel Chicago.\n\nBuilt in under four months and opened on December 5, 1930, the Merchandise Mart elevated train station served the Main Line of the North Side Division. The station is now noted for being one of two commercial locations to have its own station on the Chicago Transit Authority's (CTA) 'L' system. The station is now served by the Brown and Purple Lines. An ADA accessible station, the turnstiles are located within the building on the second floor, while the platforms are connected to the east side of the building. The northbound platform is accessed by an overhead bridge or elevator. It was rebuilt in 1988, prior to the Wells Street Bridge reconstruction in 1989.\n\nThe Merchandise Mart housed the CTA's headquarters on the 7th floor from 1947 to 2004.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2823699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2823699", "title": "Michael Richard Lynch", "text": "Michael Richard Lynch\n\nMichael Richard Lynch (born 16 June 1965) is an entrepreneur with a scientific background. He is the co-founder of Autonomy Corporation and the founder of Invoke Capital, and has several other roles, including membership of the Council for Science and Technology which advises the UK government. His entrepreneurship is associated with Silicon Fen. Lynch is known for his work applying techniques from signal processing and pattern recognition to unstructured information, and Autonomy is a leader in this area. In October 2011, Autonomy was sold to Hewlett-Packard for $11bn.\n\nLynch was born in Ilford, Essex in 1965 and grew up near Chelmsford, Essex. His mother was a nurse and his father a fireman.\n\nIn 1976, aged 11, he won a scholarship to Bancroft's School, Woodford. From there he went to Christ's College, Cambridge to study Natural Sciences. He combined mathematics, biological and physical sciences, taking the combination of advanced physics, mathematics and biochemistry in the IB Tripos. For part II, he chose electrical sciences where he first met Peter Rayner, his mentor in the signal processing laboratory of the engineering department. After graduating he went on to do a PhD in signal processing and communications research at the University of Cambridge, and then undertook a research fellowship in adaptive pattern recognition.\n\nIn the late 1980s Lynch formed Lynett Systems Ltd, producing designs and audio products for the music recording industry including the first ever sampler for the Atari ST, the Lynex, which was followed by the ADAS sampler for Atari, Mac & PC. This led to the offshoot D2D Systems which produced a software-only hard disk recording system for the Atari Falcon.\n\nIn 1991 he set up \"Cambridge Neurodynamics\", which specialized in computer-based finger print recognition.\n\nIn 1996 Lynch co-founded Autonomy Corporation. and he served Autonomy as CEO. During this time Autonomy acquired Dremedia, Virage ($13m), Verity ($500m), Zantaz ($375m) and Interwoven ($606m).\n\nIn October 2011 Autonomy was sold to Hewlett-Packard for $11 billion.\n\nIn May 2012, HP fired Mike Lynch.\n\nIn February 2013, Lynch raised $1 billion through his Invoke Capital fund to invest in up and coming British technology companies.\n\nIn September 2013, Lynch announced Invoke had made its first investment, putting up to $20m into Darktrace (alongside Hoxton Ventures and Talis Capital) which describes itself as \"the world's first behavioural cyber defence platform.\" In July 2015, Summit Partners invested a further $22.5 million in Darktrace, valuing the company at $120million.\n\nHe is a member of the board of Cambridge Enterprise, and a member of the Council for Science and Technology. He is also a member of the Council of the Foundation for Science and Technology and a Hub Mentor in the Enterprise Hub of the Royal Academy of Engineering. Lynch is a trustee of the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, and a member of the board of the Create the Change Campaign at the Crick Institute, for Cancer Research UK.\n\nHe was a non executive director of Blinkx plc.\n\nHe has previously served as a non-executive director to the board of the BBC, on the board of the British Library, and as a trustee of the National Endowment for Science Technology and the Arts (NESTA), where he was chairman of their investment committee.\n\nIn September 2012 he was inducted into the Digital Hall of Fame, British Interactive Media Association.\n\nHe was named Entrepreneur of the Year in 1999 by the Confederation of British Industry and was awarded the Institution of Electrical Engineers medal for outstanding achievement.\n\n\"Time\" magazine named Lynch in their 25 most influential technology people in Europe in 2000.\n\nThe World Economic Forum presented Lynch with an award for Autonomy as a technology pioneer in 2000. Lynch was awarded an OBE in the 2006 New Year Honours.\n\nHe is a Lady Margaret Beaufort fellow of Christ's College, Cambridge.\n\nIn 2007, he was awarded Technology Entrepreneur of the year by the European Technology Forum at their 2007 conference.\n\nIn March 2008, he was chosen Innovator of the year at the European Business Leader of the year awards 'EBLA'. In June 2008, he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering.\n\nIn October 2008, Silicon.com readers voted him one of the top five most influential people in technology along with Tim Berners-Lee, Steve Jobs, Jimmy Wales and Eric Schmidt. In January 2009, \"Management Today\" chose him as entrepreneur of the year.\n\nLynch has twice been a finalist for Investor Relations award of the year. In 2009 he was voted one of the top 25 best CEOs pan sector in Europe by fund managers in the annual Extel survey.\nHe is Deputy Lieutenant of the County of Suffolk.\nIn October 2013 he accompanied the Chancellor, George Osborne, on a trade mission to China.\n\nHis nomination for the Royal Society reads \n\nThe \"Financial Times\" has described Lynch as \"the doyen of European software\".\nPC Advisor has called him \"Britain's most successful technology entrepreneur\". \nIn a profile in the \"Sunday Times\", it was suggested in passing that Lynch is the nearest thing Britain has to Bill Gates.\n\nLarry Ellison, the CEO of Oracle, when dealing with Lynch and his colleagues said : \"either Mr Lynch has a very poor memory or he is lying\". However Lynch was proved right when Frank Quattrone, Autonomy's advisor, confirmed the presentation at the center of the controversy had been his and not given by Lynch as Oracle had asserted.\nOn 20 November 2012, Hewlett-Packard announced a writedown of assets following the Autonomy purchase due to \"disclosure failures and outright misrepresentations at Autonomy\", which occurred before the acquisition. The total writedown amounted to $8.8bn of the purchase cost of more than $10bn.\nAn FT investigation unearthed documents that show that HP was in fact aware of Autonomy's hardware sales. They were booked as hardware and were fully disclosed to Deloitte, the Autonomy auditors.\n\nLynch wrote an open letter to HP's shareholders, accusing HP of misleading them over the matter. Deloitte have also gone on the record supporting Lynch's opinion. Lynch and other ex-Autonomy executives have set up AutonomyAccounts.org to provide a platform to voice their rebuttal of criticism.\n\nIn August 2014, HP did a deal with law firms suing them on behalf of shareholders over the matter. HP would pay them and they would help HP sue Lynch and the former Autonomy CFO for fraud. HP's deal was objected to by a number of parties and was considered highly suspect as the lawyers were to be paid but not the shareholders. Judge Breyer threw the case out. HP's claims were investigated at HP's request by the UK Serious Fraud Office, however the SFO announced in January 2015 that it was ending its investigation with no action.\n\nOn 29 November 2018 he was indicted for fraud in relation to the 2011 deal with HP.\n\nHe is married and has two daughters. His entry in Who's Who (UK) lists his recreations as Jazz saxophone and preserving rare breeds.\n"}
{"id": "144147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144147", "title": "Miscarriage", "text": "Miscarriage\n\nMiscarriage, also known as spontaneous abortion and pregnancy loss, is the natural death of an embryo or fetus before it is able to survive independently. Some use the cutoff of 20 weeks of gestation, after which fetal death is known as a stillbirth. The most common symptom of a miscarriage is vaginal bleeding with or without pain. Sadness, anxiety and guilt often occur afterwards. Tissue and clot-like material may leave the uterus and pass through and out of the vagina. When a woman keeps having miscarriages, infertility is present.\nRisk factors for miscarriage include an older parent, previous miscarriage, exposure to tobacco smoke, obesity, diabetes, thyroid problems, and drug or alcohol use. About 80% of miscarriages occur in the first 12 weeks of pregnancy (the first trimester). The underlying cause in about half of cases involves chromosomal abnormalities. Diagnosis of a miscarriage may involve checking to see if the cervix is open or closed, testing blood levels of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), and an ultrasound. Other conditions that can produce similar symptoms include an ectopic pregnancy and implantation bleeding.\nPrevention is occasionally possible with good prenatal care. Avoiding drugs, alcohol, infectious diseases, and radiation may decrease the risk of miscarriage. No specific treatment is usually needed during the first 7 to 14 days. Most miscarriages will complete without additional interventions. Occasionally the medication misoprostol or a procedure such as vacuum aspiration is used to remove the remaining tissue. Women who have a blood type of rhesus negative (Rh negative) may require Rho(D) immune globulin. Pain medication may be beneficial. Emotional support may help with negative emotions.\nMiscarriage is the most common complication of early pregnancy. Among women who know they are pregnant, the miscarriage rate is roughly 10% to 20%, while rates among all fertilisation is around 30% to 50%. In those under the age of 35 the risk is about 10% while it is about 45% in those over the age of 40. Risk begins to increase around the age of 30. About 5% of women have two miscarriages in a row. Some recommend not using the term \"abortion\" in discussions with those experiencing a miscarriage in an effort to decrease distress.\nSigns of a miscarriage include vaginal spotting, abdominal pain, cramping, and fluid, blood clots, and tissue passing from the vagina. Bleeding can be a symptom of miscarriage, but many women also have bleeding in early pregnancy and don't miscarry. Bleeding during pregnancy may be referred to as a threatened miscarriage. Of those who seek clinical treatment for bleeding during pregnancy, about half will miscarry. Miscarriage may be detected during an ultrasound exam, or through serial human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) testing.\n\nMiscarriage may occur for many reasons, not all of which can be identified. Risk factors are those things that increase the likelihood of having a miscarriage but don't necessarily cause a miscarriage. Up to 70 conditions, infections, medical procedures, lifestyle factors, occupational exposures, chemical exposure, and shift work are associated with increased risk for miscarriage. Some of these risks include endocrine, genetic, uterine, or hormonal abnormalities, reproductive tract infections, and tissue rejection caused by an autoimmune disorder.\n\nMost clinically apparent miscarriages (two-thirds to three-quarters in various studies) occur during the first trimester. About 30% to 40% of all fertilized eggs miscarry, often before the pregnancy is known. The embryo typically dies before the pregnancy is expelled; bleeding into the decidua basalis and tissue necrosis causes uterine contractions to expel the pregnancy. Early miscarriages can be due to a developmental abnormality of the placenta or other embryonic tissues. In some instances an embryo does not form but other tissues do. This has been called a \"blighted ovum\".\n\nSuccessful implantation of the zygote into the uterus is most likely 8 to 10 days after conception. If the zygote has not implanted by day 10, implantation becomes increasingly unlikely in subsequent days.\n\nA chemical pregnancy is a pregnancy that was detected by testing but ends in miscarriage before or around the time of the next expected period.\n\nChromosomal abnormalities are found in more than half of embryos miscarried in the first 13 weeks. Half of embryonic miscarriages (25% of all miscarriages) have an aneuploidy (abnormal number of chromosomes). Common chromosome abnormalities found in miscarriages include autosomal trisomy (22-32%), monosomy X (5-20%), triploidy (6-8%), tetraploidy (2-4%), or other structural chromosomal abnormalities (2%). Genetic problems are more likely to occur with older parents; this may account for the higher rates observed in older women.\n\nThere is no evidence that progesterone given in the first trimester reduces the risk of miscarriage, and luteal phase progesterone deficiency may or may not be a contributing factor to miscarriage.\n\nSecond trimester losses may be due to maternal factors such as uterine malformation, growths in the uterus (fibroids), or cervical problems. These conditions also may contribute to premature birth. Unlike first-trimester miscarriages, second-trimester miscarriages are less likely to be caused by a genetic abnormality; chromosomal aberrations are found in a third of cases. Infection during the third trimester can cause a miscarriage.\n\nThe age of the pregnant woman is a significant risk factor. Miscarriage rates increase steadily with age, with more substantial increases after age 35. In those under the age of 35 the risk is about 10% while it is about 45% in those over the age of 40. Risk begins to increase around the age of 30. Paternal age is associated with increased risk.\n\nNot only is obesity associated with miscarriage, it can result in sub-fertility and other adverse pregnancy outcomes. Recurrent miscarriage is also related to obesity. Women with bulimia nervosa and anorexia nervosa may have a greater risk for miscarriage. Nutrient deficiencies have not been found to impact miscarriage rates but hyperemesis gravidarum sometimes precedes a miscarriage.\nCaffeine consumption also has been correlated to miscarriage rates, at least at higher levels of intake. However, such higher rates have been found to be statistically significant only in certain circumstances.\n\nVitamin supplementation has generally not shown to be effective in preventing miscarriage. Chinese traditional medicine has not been found to prevent miscarriage.\n\nDisorders of the thyroid may affect pregnancy outcomes. Related to this, iodine deficiency is strongly associated with an increased risk of miscarriage. The risk of miscarriage is increased in those with poorly controlled insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Women with well-controlled diabetes have the same risk of miscarriage as those without diabetes.\n\nIngesting food that has been contaminated with listeriosis, toxoplasmosis, and salmonella is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage.\n\nAmniocentesis and chorionic villus sampling are procedures conducted to assess the fetus. A sample of amniotic fluid is obtained by the insertion of a needle through the abdomen and into the uterus. Chorionic villus sampling is a similar procedure with a sample of tissue removed rather than fluid. These procedures are not associated with pregnancy loss during the second trimester but they are associated with miscarriages and birth defects in the first trimester. Miscarriage caused by invasive prenatal diagnosis (chorionic villus sampling (CVS) and amniocentesis) is rare (about 1%).\n\nThe effects of surgery on pregnancy are not well-known including the effects of bariatric surgery. Abdominal and pelvic surgery are not risk factors in miscarriage. Ovarian tumors and cysts that are removed have not been found to increase the risk of miscarriage. The exception to this is the removal of the corpus luteum from the ovary. This can cause fluctuations in the hormones necessary to maintain the pregnancy.\n\nImmunizations have not been found to cause miscarriage. There is no significant association between antidepressant medication exposure and spontaneous abortion. The risk of miscarriage is not likely decreased by discontinuing SSRI prior to pregnancy. Some available data suggest that there is a small increased risk of miscarriage for women taking any antidepressant, though this risk becomes less statistically significant when excluding studies of poor quality.\n\nMedicines that increase the risk of miscarriage include:\n\n\nIonizing radiation levels given to a woman during cancer treatment cause miscarriage. Exposure can also impact fertility. The use of chemotherapeutic drugs used to treat childhood cancer increases the risk of miscarriage.\n\nSeveral intercurrent diseases in pregnancy can potentially increase the risk of miscarriage, including diabetes, polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), hypothyroidism, certain infectious diseases, and autoimmune diseases. PCOS may increase the risk of miscarriage. Two studies suggested treatment with the drug metformin significantly lowers the rate of miscarriage in women with PCOS, but the quality of these studies has been questioned. Metformin treatment in pregnancy has not been shown to be safe. In 2007 the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists also recommended against use of the drug to prevent miscarriage. Thrombophilias or defects in coagulation and bleeding were once thought to be a risk in miscarriage but have been subsequently questioned.\nSevere cases of hypothyroidism increase the risk of miscarriage. The effect of milder cases of hypothyroidism on miscarriage rates has not been established. A condition called luteal phase defect (LPD) is a failure of the uterine lining to be fully prepared for pregnancy. This can keep a fertilized egg from implanting or result in miscarriage.\n\n\"Mycoplasma genitalium\" infection is associated with increased risk of preterm birth and miscarriage.\n\nInfections can increase the risk of a miscarriage: rubella (German measles), cytomegalovirus, bacterial vaginosis, HIV, chlamydia, gonorrhoea, syphilis, and malaria.\n\nAutoimmunity is possible cause of recurrent or late-term miscarriages. In the case of an autoimmune-induced miscarriages the woman's body attacks the growing fetus or prevents normal pregnancy progression. Autoimmune disease may cause genetic abnormalities in embryos which in turn may lead to miscarriage. As an example, Celiac disease increases the risk of miscarriage by an odds ratio of approximately 1.4. A disruption in normal immune function can lead to the formation of antiphospholipid antibody syndrome. This will effect the ability to continue the pregnancy and if a woman has repeated miscarriages, she can be tested for it. Approximately 15% of recurrent miscarriages are related to immunologic factors. The presence of anti-thyroid autoantibodies is associated with an increased risk with an odds ratio of 3.73 and 95% confidence interval 1.8–7.6. Having Lupus also increases the risk for miscarriage.\n\nFifteen percent of women who have experienced three or more recurring miscarriages have some anatomical defect that prevents the pregnancy from being carried for the entire term. The structure of the uterus has an effect on the ability to carry a child to term. Anatomical differences are common and can be congenital. \nIn some women, cervical incompetence or cervical insufficiency occurs with the inability of the cervix to stay closed during the entire pregnancy. It does not cause first trimester miscarriages. In the second trimester it is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage. It is identified after a premature birth has occurred at about 16–18 weeks into the pregnancy. During the second trimester, major trauma can result in a miscarriage.\n\nTobacco (cigarette) smokers have an increased risk of miscarriage. There is an increased risk regardless of which parent smokes, though the risk is higher when the gestational mother smokes.\n\nNausea and vomiting of pregnancy (NVP, or morning sickness) are associated with a decreased risk. Several possible causes have been suggested for morning sickness but there is still no agreement. NVP may represent a defense mechanism which discourages the mother's ingestion of foods that are harmful to the fetus; according to this model, a lower frequency of miscarriage would be an expected consequence of the different food choices made by women experiencing NVP.\n\nChemical and occupational exposures may have some effect in pregnancy outcomes. A cause and effect relationship almost can never be established. Those chemicals that are implicated in increasing the risk for miscarriage are DDT, lead, formaldehyde, arsenic, benzene and ethylene oxide. Video display terminals and ultrasound have not been found to have an effect on the rates of miscarriage. In dental offices where nitrous oxide is used with the absence of anesthetic gas scavenging equipment, there is a greater risk of miscarriage. For women who work with cytotoxic antineoplastic chemotherapeutic agents there is a small increased risk of miscarriage. No increased risk for cosmetologists has been found.\n\nAlcohol increases the risk of miscarriage. Progesterone has not been found to be effective in preventing miscarriage. Cocaine use increases the rate of miscarriage. Some infections have been associated with miscarriage. These include \"Ureaplasma urealyticum\", \"Mycoplasma hominis\", group B streptococci, HIV-1, and syphilis. Infections of \"Chlamydia trachomatis,\" \"Camphylobacter fetus\", and \"Toxoplasma gondii\" have not been found to be linked to miscarriage.\n\nIn the case of blood loss, pain, or both, transvaginal ultrasound is performed. If a viable intrauterine pregnancy is not found with ultrasound, blood tests (serial βHCG tests) can be performed to rule out ectopic pregnancy, which is a life-threatening situation.\n\nIf hypotension, tachycardia, and anemia are discovered, exclusion of an ectopic pregnancy is important.\n\nA miscarriage may be confirmed by an obstetric ultrasound and by the examination of the passed tissue. When looking for microscopic pathologic symptoms, one looks for the products of conception. Microscopically, these include villi, trophoblast, fetal parts, and background gestational changes in the endometrium. When chromosomal abnormalities are found in more than one miscarriage, genetic testing of both parents may be done.\n\nA review article in The New England Journal of Medicine based on a consensus meeting of the Society of Radiologists in Ultrasound in America (SRU) has suggested that miscarriage should be diagnosed only if any of the following criteria are met upon ultrasonography visualization:\nA threatened miscarriage describes any bleeding during pregnancy, prior to viability, that has yet to be assessed.. At investigation it may be found that the fetus remains viable and the pregnancy continues without further problems.\n\nAn anembryonic pregnancy (also called an \"empty sac\" or \"blighted ovum\") is a condition where the gestational sac develops normally, while the embryonic part of the pregnancy is either absent or stops growing very early. This accounts for approximately half of miscarriages. All other miscarriages are classified as embryonic miscarriages, meaning that there is an embryo present in the gestational sac. Half of embryonic miscarriages have aneuploidy (an abnormal number of chromosomes).\n\nAn inevitable miscarriage occurs when the cervix has already dilated, but the fetus has yet to be expelled. This usually will progress to a complete miscarriage. The fetus may or may not have cardiac activity.\n\nA missed miscarriage is when the embryo or fetus has died, but a miscarriage has not yet occurred. It is also referred to as delayed miscarriage, silent miscarriage, or missed abortion.\n\nA septic miscarriage occurs when the tissue from a missed or incomplete miscarriage becomes infected, which carries the risk of spreading infection (septicaemia) and can be fatal.\n\nRecurrent miscarriage (\"recurrent pregnancy loss\" (RPL) or \"habitual abortion\") is the occurrence of multiple consecutive miscarriages; the exact number used to diagnose recurrent miscarriage varies. If the proportion of pregnancies ending in miscarriage is 15% and assuming that miscarriages are independent events, then the probability of two consecutive miscarriages is 2.25% and the probability of three consecutive miscarriages is 0.34%. The occurrence of recurrent pregnancy loss is 1%. A large majority (85%) of those who have had two miscarriages will conceive and carry normally afterward.\n\nThe physical symptoms of a miscarriage vary according to the length of pregnancy, though most miscarriages cause pain or cramping. The size of blood clots and pregnancy tissue that are passed become larger with longer gestations. After 13 weeks' gestation, there is a higher risk of placenta retention.\n\nPrevention of a miscarriage can sometimes be accomplished by decreasing risk factors. This may include good prenatal care, avoiding drugs and alcohol, preventing infectious diseases, and avoiding x-rays. Identifying the cause of the miscarriage may help prevent future pregnancy loss, especially in cases of recurrent miscarriage. Often there is little a person can do to prevent a miscarriage. Vitamin supplementation before or during pregnancy has not been found to affect the risk of miscarriage.\n\nPreventing a miscarriage in subsequent pregnancies may be enhanced with assessments of:\n\nMaintaining a healthy weight and good pre-natal care can reduce the risk of miscarriage. Some risk factors can be minimized by avoiding the following:\n\nWomen who miscarry early in their pregnancy usually do not require any subsequent medical treatment but they can benefit from support and counseling. Most early miscarriages will complete on their own; in other cases, medication treatment or aspiration of the products of conception can be used to remove remaining tissue. While bed rest has been advocated to prevent miscarriage, this has not been found to be of benefit. Those who are or who have experienced an abortion benefit from the use of careful medical language. Significant distress can often be managed by the ability of the clinician to clearly explain terms without suggesting that the woman or couple are somehow to blame.\n\nEvidence to support Rho(D) immune globulin after a spontaneous miscarriage is unclear. In the UK, Rho(D) immune globulin is recommended in Rh-negative women after 12 weeks gestational age and before 12 weeks gestational age in those who need surgery or medication to complete the miscarriage.\n\nNo treatment is necessary for a diagnosis of complete miscarriage (so long as ectopic pregnancy is ruled out). In cases of an incomplete miscarriage, empty sac, or missed abortion there are three treatment options: watchful waiting, medical management, and surgical treatment. With no treatment (watchful waiting), most miscarriages (65–80%) will pass naturally within two to six weeks. This treatment avoids the possible side effects and complications of medications and surgery, but increases the risk of mild bleeding, need for unplanned surgical treatment, and incomplete miscarriage. Medical treatment usually consists of using misoprostol (a prostaglandin) to contract the uterus, expelling remaining tissue out of the cervix. This works within a few days in 95% of cases. Vacuum aspiration or sharp curettage can be used, though vacuum aspiration is lower-risk and more common.\n\nIn delayed or incomplete miscarriage, treatment depends on the amount of tissue remaining in the uterus. Treatment can include surgical removal of the tissue with vacuum aspiration or misoprostol. Studies looking at the methods of anaesthesia for surgical management of incomplete miscarriage have not shown that any adaptation from normal practice is beneficial. Some organizations recommend delaying sexual relations immediately after a miscarriage to prevent infection. However, there is not sufficient evidence for the routine use of antibiotic to try to avoid infection in incomplete abortion.\n\nAn induced abortion may be performed by a physician for women who do not want to continue the pregnancy. Self-induced abortion performed by a woman or non-medical personnel is extremely dangerous and is still a cause of maternal mortality in some countries. In some locales it is illegal or carries heavy social stigma.\n\nOrganizations exist that provide information and counseling to help those who have had a miscarriage. Family and friends often conduct a memorial or burial service. Hospitals also can provide support and help memorialize the event. Depending on locale others desire to have a private ceremony. Providing appropriate support with frequent discussions and sympathetic counseling are part of evaluation and treatment. Those who experience unexplained miscarriage can be treated with emotional support.\n\nEvery woman's personal experience of miscarriage is different, and women who have more than one miscarriage may react differently to each event.\n\nIn Western cultures since the 1980s, medical providers assume that experiencing a miscarriage \"is a major loss for all pregnant women\". A miscarriage can result in anxiety, depression or stress for those involved. It can have an effect on the whole family. Many of those experiencing a miscarriage go through a grieving process. \"Prenatal attachment\" often exists that can be seen as parental sensitivity, love and preoccupation directed toward the unborn child. Serious emotional impact is usually experienced immediately after the miscarriage. Some may go through the same loss when an ectopic pregnancy is terminated. In some, the realization of the loss can take weeks. Providing family support to those experiencing the loss can be challenging because some find comfort in talking about the miscarriage while others may find the event painful to discuss. The father can have the same sense of loss. Expressing feelings of grief and loss can sometimes be harder for men. Some women are able to begin planning their next pregnancy after a few weeks of having the miscarriage. For others, planning another pregnancy can be difficult. Some facilities acknowledge the loss. Parents can name and hold their infant. They may be given mementos such as photos and footprints. Some conduct a funeral or memorial service. They may express the loss by planting a tree.\n\nSome health organizations recommend that sexual activity be delayed after the miscarriage. The menstrual cycle should resume after about three to four months. Women report that they were dissatisfied with the care they received from physicians and nurses.\n\nSome parents want to try to have a baby very soon after the miscarriage. The decision of trying to become pregnant again can be difficult. Reasons exist that may prompt parents to consider another pregnancy. For older mothers, there may be some sense of urgency. Other parents are optimistic that future pregnancies are likely to be successful. Many are hesitant and want to know about the risk of having another or more miscarriages. Some clinicians recommend that the women have one menstrual cycle before attempting another pregnancy. This is because the date of conception may be hard to determine. Also, the first menstrual cycle after a miscarriage can be much longer or shorter than expected. Parents may be advised to wait even longer if they have experienced late miscarriage or molar pregnancy, or are undergoing tests. Some parents wait for six months based upon recommendations from their health care provider.\n\nThe risks of having another miscarriage vary according to the cause. The risk of having another miscarriage after a molar pregnancy is very low. The risk of another miscarriage is highest after the third miscarriage. Pre-conception care is available in some locales.\n\nThere is a significant association between miscarriage and later development of coronary artery disease, but not of cerebrovascular disease.\n\nAmong women who know they are pregnant, the miscarriage rate is roughly 10% to 20%, while rates among all fertilized zygotes are around 30% to 50%. A 2012 review found the risk of miscarriage between 5 and 20 weeks from 11% to 22%. Up to the 13th week of pregnancy, the risk of miscarriage each week was around 2%, dropping to 1% in week 14 and reducing slowly between 14 and 20 weeks.\n\nThe precise rate is not known because a large number of miscarriages occur before pregnancies become established and before the woman is aware they are pregnant. Additionally, those with bleeding in early pregnancy may seek medical care more often than those not experiencing bleeding. Although some studies attempt to account for this by recruiting women who are planning pregnancies and testing for very early pregnancy, they still are not representative of the wider population.\n\nThe prevalence of miscarriage increases with the age of both parents. In a Danish register-based study where the prevalence of miscarriage was 11%, the prevalence rose from 9% at 22 years of age to 84% by 48 years of age. Another, later study in 2013 found that when either parent was over the age of 40, the rate of known miscarriages doubled.\n\nIn 2010, 50,000 inpatient admissions for miscarriage occurred in the UK.\n\nMost affected women and family members refer to miscarriage as the loss of a baby, rather than an embryo or fetus, and healthcare providers are expected to respect and use the language that the person chooses. Clinical terms can suggest blame, increase distress, and even cause anger. Terms that are known to cause distress in those experiencing miscarriage include:\n\n\n\"Pregnancy loss\" is a broad term that describes miscarriage, ectopic and molar pregnancies. The term \"fetal death\" applies variably in different countries and contexts, sometimes incorporating weight, and gestational age from 16 weeks in Norway, 20 weeks in the US and Australia, 24 weeks in the UK to 26 weeks in Italy and Spain. A fetus that died before birth after this gestational age may be referred to as a stillbirth. Under UK law, all stillbirths should be registered, although this does not apply to miscarriages.\n\nThe medical terminology applied to experiences during early pregnancy has changed over time. Before the 1980s, health professionals used the phrase \"spontaneous abortion\" for a miscarriage and \"induced abortion\" for a termination of the pregnancy. In the late 1980s and 1990s, doctors became more conscious of their language in relation to early pregnancy loss. Some medical authors advocated change to use of \"miscarriage\" instead of \"spontaneous abortion\" because they argued this would be more respectful and help ease a distressing experience. The change was being recommended by some in the profession in Britain in the late 1990s. In 2005 the European Society for Human Reproduction and Embryology (ESHRE) published a paper aiming to facilitate a revision of nomenclature used to describe early pregnancy events.\n\nSociety's reactions to miscarriage changed over time.  In the early 20th century, the focus was on the mother's physical health and the difficulties and disabilities that miscarriage could produce. Other reactions, such as the expense of medical treatments and relief at ending an unwanted pregnancy, were also heard. In the 1940s and 1950s, people were more likely to express relief, not because the miscarriage ended an unwanted or mistimed pregnancy, but because people believed that miscarriages were primarily caused by birth defects, and miscarrying meant that the family would not raise a child with disabilities. The dominant attitude in the mid-century was that a miscarriage, although temporarily distressing, was a blessing in disguise for the family, and that another pregnancy and a healthier baby would soon follow, especially if women trusted physicians and reduced their anxieties. Media articles were illustrated with pictures of babies, and magazine articles about miscarriage ended by introducing the healthy baby—usually a boy—that had shortly followed it.\n\nBeginning in the 1980s, miscarriage in the US was primarily framed in terms of the individual woman's personal emotional reaction, and especially her grief over a tragic outcome. The subject was portrayed in the media with images of an empty crib or an isolated, grieving woman, and stories about miscarriage were published in general-interest media outlets, not just women's magazines or health magazines. Family members were encouraged to grieve, to memorialize their losses through funerals and other rituals, and to think of themselves as being parents.  This shift to recognizing these emotional responses was partly due to medical and political successes, which created an expectation that pregnancies are typically planned and safe, and to women's demands that their emotional reactions no longer be dismissed by the medical establishments.  It also reinforces the pro-life movement's belief that human life begins at conception or early in pregnancy, and that motherhood is a desirable life goal. The modern one-size-fits-all model of grief does not fit every woman's experience, and an expectation to perform grief creates unnecessary burdens for some women. The reframing of miscarriage as a private emotional experience brought less awareness of miscarriage and a sense of silence around the subject, especially compared to the public discussion of miscarriage during campaigns for access to birth control during the early 20th century, or the public campaigns to prevent miscarriages, stillbirths, and infant deaths by reducing industrial pollution during the 1970s.\n\nIn places where induced abortion is illegal or carries social stigma, suspicion may surround miscarriage, complicating an already sensitive issue.\n\nIn the 1960s, the use of the word \"miscarriage\" in Britain (instead of \"spontaneous abortion\") occurred after changes in legislation.\n\nDevelopments in ultrasound technology (in the early 1980s) allowed them to identify earlier miscarriages.\n\nAccording to French statutes, an infant born before the age of viability, determined to be 28 weeks, is not registered as a 'child'. If birth occurs after this, the infant is granted a certificate that allows women who have given birth to a stillborn child, to have a symbolic record of that child. This certificate can include a registered and given name with the purpose of allowing a funeral and acknowledgement of the event.\n\nMiscarriage occurs in all animals that experience pregnancy, though in such contexts it is more commonly referred to as a \"spontaneous abortion\" (the two terms are synonymous). There are a variety of known risk factors in non-human animals. For example, in sheep, miscarriage may be caused by crowding through doors, or being chased by dogs. In cows, spontaneous abortion may be caused by contagious disease, such as brucellosis or \"Campylobacter\", but often can be controlled by vaccination. In many species of sharks and rays, stress induced miscarriage occurs frequently on capture.\n\nOther diseases are also known to make animals susceptible to miscarriage. Spontaneous abortion occurs in pregnant prairie voles when their mate is removed and they are exposed to a new male, an example of the Bruce effect, although this effect is seen less in wild populations than in the laboratory. Female mice who had spontaneous abortions showed a sharp rise in the amount of time spent with unfamiliar males preceding the abortion than those who did not.\n\n"}
{"id": "11157102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11157102", "title": "Pharmaceutical Marketing and Management", "text": "Pharmaceutical Marketing and Management\n\nPharmaceutical Marketing and Management is an undergraduate college degree program which began at the Philadelphia College of Pharmacy and Science. PCPS, now known as The University of the Sciences in Philadelphia is the oldest school of pharmacy in the United States and North America, founded in 1821.\n\nThis program is ideal for students interested in learning the business and management side of health care and the pharmaceutical industry. It provides strong focus on the basic sciences, combining biological and pharmaceutical science coursework with marketing and general management studies. The program prepares students for a variety of careers, including pharmaceutical sales; health care and health information management; food, drug and medical device industry regulatory oversight; and pharmacy distribution systems development and implementation. Graduates are also prepared to continue their education in post-graduate programs that could include business, science, or regulatory affairs master's degrees.\n\nThis degree is also offered at Saint Joseph's University, located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, which was one of the first universities to offer this specialized program of study.\n\nOutside of Pennsylvania, Pharmaceutical Marketing and Management is offered at the Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences in Boston, Massachusetts.\n"}
{"id": "18960210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18960210", "title": "Plagiarism", "text": "Plagiarism\n\nPlagiarism is the \"wrongful appropriation\" and \"stealing and publication\" of another author's \"language, thoughts, ideas, or expressions\" and the representation of them as one's own original work.\n\nPlagiarism is considered academic dishonesty and a breach of journalistic ethics. It is subject to sanctions such as penalties, suspension, and even expulsion from school or work. Recently, cases of \"extreme plagiarism\" have been identified in academia. The modern concept of plagiarism as immoral and originality as an ideal emerged in Europe in the 18th century, particularly with the Romantic movement.\n\nPlagiarism is not in itself a crime, but can constitute copyright infringement. In academia and industry, it is a serious ethical offense. Plagiarism and copyright infringement overlap to a considerable extent, but they are not equivalent concepts, and many types of plagiarism do not constitute copyright infringement, which is defined by copyright law and may be adjudicated by courts. Plagiarism is not defined or punished by law, but rather by institutions (including professional associations, educational institutions, and commercial entities, such as publishing companies).\n\nIn the 1st century, the use of the Latin word \"plagiarius\" (literally \"kidnapper\") to denote stealing someone else's work was pioneered by the Roman poet Martial, who complained that another poet had \"kidnapped his verses\". \"Plagiary\", a derivative of \"plagiarus\", was introduced into English in 1601 by dramatist Ben Jonson during the Jacobean Era to describe someone guilty of literary theft.\n\nThe derived form \"plagiarism\" was introduced into English around 1620. The Latin \"plagiārius\", \"kidnapper\", and \"plagium\", \"kidnapping\", have the root \"plaga\" (\"snare\", \"net\"), based on the Indo-European root \"*-plak\", \"to weave\" (seen for instance in Greek \"plekein\", Bulgarian \"плета\" \"pleta\", and Latin \"plectere\", all meaning \"to weave\").\n\nAlthough plagiarism in some contexts is considered theft or stealing, the concept does not exist in a legal sense, although the use of someone else's work in order to gain academic credit may meet some legal definitions of fraud. \"Plagiarism\" specifically is not mentioned in any current statute, either criminal or civil. Some cases may be treated as unfair competition or a violation of the doctrine of moral rights. The increased availability of copyrighted material due to the development of information technology has furthered the debate as to whether copyright offences are criminal. In short, people are asked to use the guideline, \"if you did not write it yourself, you must give credit\".\n\nPlagiarism is not the same as copyright infringement. While both terms may apply to a particular act, they are different concepts, and false claims of authorship generally constitute plagiarism regardless of whether the material is protected by copyright. Copyright infringement is a violation of the rights of a copyright holder, when material whose use is restricted by copyright is used without consent. Plagiarism, in contrast, is concerned with the unearned increment to the plagiarizing author's reputation, or the obtaining of academic credit, that is achieved through false claims of authorship. Thus, plagiarism is considered a moral offense against the plagiarist's audience (for example, a reader, listener, or teacher).\n\nPlagiarism is also considered a moral offense against anyone who has provided the plagiarist with a benefit in exchange for what is specifically supposed to be original content (for example, the plagiarist's publisher, employer, or teacher). In such cases, acts of plagiarism may sometimes also form part of a claim for breach of the plagiarist's contract, or, if done knowingly, for a civil wrong.\n\nWithin academia, plagiarism by students, professors, or researchers is considered academic dishonesty or academic fraud, and offenders are subject to academic censure, up to and including expulsion. Some institutions use plagiarism detection software to uncover potential plagiarism and to deter students from plagiarizing. Some universities address the issue of academic integrity by providing students with thorough orientations, required writing courses, and clearly articulated honor codes. Indeed, there is a virtually uniform understanding among college students that plagiarism is wrong. Nevertheless, each year students are brought before their institutions’ disciplinary boards on charges that they have misused sources in their schoolwork.\" However, the practice of plagiarizing by use of sufficient word substitutions to elude detection software, known as rogeting, has rapidly evolved as students and unethical academics seek to stay ahead of detection software. \n\nAn extreme form of plagiarism, known as contract cheating involves students paying someone else, such as an essay mill, to do their work for them.\n\nIn journalism, plagiarism is considered a breach of journalistic ethics, and reporters caught plagiarizing typically face disciplinary measures ranging from suspension to termination of employment. Some individuals caught plagiarizing in academic or journalistic contexts claim that they plagiarized unintentionally, by failing to include quotations or give the appropriate citation. While plagiarism in scholarship and journalism has a centuries-old history, the development of the Internet, where articles appear as electronic text, has made the physical act of copying the work of others much easier.\n\nPredicated upon an expected level of learning/comprehension having been achieved, all associated academic accreditation becomes seriously undermined if plagiarism is allowed to become the norm within academic submissions.\n\nFor professors and researchers, plagiarism is punished by sanctions ranging from suspension to termination, along with the loss of credibility and perceived integrity. Charges of plagiarism against students and professors are typically heard by internal disciplinary committees, by which students and professors have agreed to be bound. Plagiarism is a common reason for academic research papers to be retracted.\n\n No universally adopted definition of academic plagiarism exists; however, this section provides several definitions to exemplify the most common characteristics of academic plagiarism.\n\nAccording to Bela Gipp academic plagiarism encompasses:\n\n\"The use of ideas, concepts, words, or structures without appropriately acknowledging the source to benefit in a setting where originality is expected.\"\n\nThe definition by B. Gipp is an abridged version of Teddi Fishman's definition of plagiarism, which proposed five elements characteristic of plagiarism. According to T. Fishman, plagiarism occurs when someone:\n\nFurthermore, plagiarism is defined differently among institutions of higher learning and universities:\n\n\nAccording to a 2015 survey of teachers and professors by Turnitin there are 10 main forms of plagiarism that students commit:\n\n\nIn the academic world, plagiarism by students is usually considered a very serious offense that can result in punishments such as a failing grade on the particular assignment, the entire course, or even being expelled from the institution. Generally, the punishment increases as a person enters higher institutions of learning. The seriousness with which academic institutions address student plagiarism may be tempered by a recognition that students may not fully understand what plagiarism is. A 2015 study showed that students who were new to university study did not have a good understanding of even the basic requirements of how to attribute sources in written academic work, yet students were very confident that they understood what referencing and plagiarism are. The same students also had a lenient view of how plagiarism should be penalised.\n\nFor cases of repeated plagiarism, or for cases in which a student commits severe plagiarism (e.g., purchasing an assignment), suspension or expulsion may occur. There has been historic concern about inconsistencies in penalties administered for university student plagiarism, and a plagiarism tariff was devised in 2008 for UK higher education institutions in an attempt to encourage some standardization of approaches.\n\nHowever, to impose sanctions, plagiarism needs to be detected. Strategies faculty members use to detect plagiarism include carefully reading students work and making note of inconsistencies in student writing, citation errors and providing plagiarism prevention education to students. It has been found that a significant share of (university) teachers do not use detection methods such as using text-matching software. A few more try to detect plagiarism by reading term-papers specifically for plagiarism, while the latter method might be not very effective in detecting plagiarism – especially when plagiarism from unfamiliar sources needs to be detected. There are checklists of tactics to prevent student plagiarism.\n\nThere are allegations that some diploma mills take students' money for essays, then produce a low standard essay or close their websites without providing the purchased essay. Students then have little time to provide an essay before a deadline. Also diploma mills have allegedly blackmailed students demanding more money than was originally agreed and threatening to reveal plagiarism to the university unless more money is paid. Sorana Vieru of the NUS said, “We would urge those who are struggling to seek support through their unions and universities rather than looking to a quick fix, and be aware that using these websites could cost not only money but jeopardise their qualifications.”\n\nThere are calls for diploma mills to be made illegal in the United Kingdom, in New Zealand and some juristictions in the United States they are already illegal.\n\nGiven the serious consequences that plagiarism has for students, there has been a call for a greater emphasis on learning in order to help students avoid committing plagiarism. This is especially important when students move to a new institution that may have a different view of the concept when compared with the view previously developed by the student. Indeed, given the seriousness of plagiarism accusations for a student's future, the pedagogy of plagiarism education may need to be considered ahead of the pedagogy of the discipline being studied. The need for plagiarism education extends to academic staff, who may not completely understand what is expected of their students or the consequences of misconduct.\n\nSeveral studies investigated factors that influence the decision to plagiarize. For example, a panel study with students from German universities found that academic procrastination predicts the frequency plagiarism conducted within six months followed the measurement of academic procrastination. It has been argued that by plagiarizing students cope with the negative consequences that result from academic procrastination such as poor grades. Another study found that plagiarism is more frequent if students perceive plagiarism as beneficial and if they have the opportunity to plagiarize. When students had expected higher sanctions and when they had internalized social norms that define plagiarism as very objectionable, plagiarism was less likely to occur.\n\nSince journalism relies on the public trust, a reporter's failure to honestly acknowledge their sources undercuts a newspaper or television news show's integrity and undermines its credibility. Journalists accused of plagiarism are often suspended from their reporting tasks while the charges are being investigated by the news organization.\n\nThe reuse of significant, identical, or nearly identical portions of one's own work without acknowledging that one is doing so or citing the original work is sometimes described as \"self-plagiarism\"; the term \"recycling fraud\" has also been used to describe this practice. Articles of this nature are often referred to as duplicate or multiple publication. In addition there can be a copyright issue if copyright of the prior work has been transferred to another entity. Self-plagiarism is considered a serious ethical issue in settings where someone asserts that a publication consists of new material, such as in publishing or factual documentation. It does not apply to public-interest texts, such as social, professional, and cultural opinions usually published in newspapers and magazines.\n\nIn academic fields, self-plagiarism occurs when an author reuses portions of their own published and copyrighted work in subsequent publications, but without attributing the previous publication. Identifying self-plagiarism is often difficult because limited reuse of material is accepted both legally (as fair use) and ethically.\n\nMiguel Roig has written at length about the topic of self-plagiarism and his definition of self-plagiarism as using previously disseminated work is widely accepted among scholars of the topic. However, the \"self-plagiarism\" has been challenged as being self-contradictory, an oxymoron, and on other grounds.\n\nFor example, Stephanie J. Bird argues that self-plagiarism is a misnomer, since by definition plagiarism concerns the use of others' material. Bird identifies the ethical issues of \"self-plagiarism\" as those of \"dual or redundant publication.\" She also notes that in an educational context, \"self-plagiarism\" refers to the case of a student who resubmits \"the same essay for credit in two different courses.\" As David B. Resnik clarifies, \"Self-plagiarism involves dishonesty but not intellectual theft.\" \n\nAccording to Patrick M. Scanlon\n\n\"Self-plagiarism\" is a term with some specialized currency. Most prominently, it is used in discussions of research and publishing integrity in biomedicine, where heavy publish-or-perish demands have led to a rash of duplicate and \"salami-slicing\" publication, the reporting of a single study's results in \"least publishable units\" within multiple articles (Blancett, Flanagin, & Young, 1995; Jefferson, 1998; Kassirer & Angell, 1995; Lowe, 2003; McCarthy, 1993; Schein & Paladugu, 2001; Wheeler, 1989). Roig (2002) offers a useful classification system including four types of self-plagiarism: duplicate publication of an article in more than one journal; partitioning of one study into multiple publications, often called salami-slicing; text recycling; and copyright infringement.\n\nSome academic journals have codes of ethics that specifically refer to self-plagiarism. For example, the \"Journal of International Business Studies\". Some professional organizations like the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) have created policies that deal specifically with self-plagiarism. Other organizations do not make specific reference to self-plagiarism such as the American Political Science Association (APSA). The organization published a code of ethics that describes plagiarism as \"...deliberate appropriation of the works of others represented as one's own.\" It does not make any reference to self-plagiarism. It does say that when a thesis or dissertation is published \"in whole or in part\", the author is \"not ordinarily under an ethical obligation to acknowledge its origins.\" The American Society for Public Administration (ASPA) also published a code of ethics that says its members are committed to: \"Ensure that others receive credit for their work and contributions,\" but it makes no reference to self-plagiarism.\n\nPamela Samuelson, in 1994, identified several factors she says excuse reuse of one's previously published work, that make it not self-plagiarism. She relates each of these factors specifically to the ethical issue of self-plagiarism, as distinct from the legal issue of fair use of copyright, which she deals with separately. Among other factors that may excuse reuse of previously published material Samuelson lists the following:\n\n\nSamuelson states she has relied on the \"different audience\" rationale when attempting to bridge interdisciplinary communities. She refers to writing for different legal and technical communities, saying: \"there are often paragraphs or sequences of paragraphs that can be bodily lifted from one article to the other. And, in truth, I lift them.\" She refers to her own practice of converting \"a technical article into a law review article with relatively few changes—adding footnotes and one substantive section\" for a different audience.\n\nSamuelson describes misrepresentation as the basis of self-plagiarism. She also states \"Although it seems not to have been raised in any of the self-plagiarism cases, copyrights law's fair use defense would likely provide a shield against many potential publisher claims of copyright infringement against authors who reused portions of their previous works.\"\n\nPlagiarism is presumably not an issue when organizations issue collective unsigned works since they do not assign credit for originality to particular people. For example, the American Historical Association's \"Statement on Standards of Professional Conduct\" (2005) regarding textbooks and reference books states that, since textbooks and encyclopedias are summaries of other scholars' work, they are not bound by the same exacting standards of attribution as original research and may be allowed a greater \"extent of dependence\" on other works. However, even such a book does not make use of words, phrases, or paragraphs from another text or follow too closely the other text's arrangement and organization, and the authors of such texts are also expected to \"acknowledge the sources of recent or distinctive findings and interpretations, those not yet a part of the common understanding of the profession.\"\n\nThrough all of the history of literature and of the arts in general, works of art are for a large part repetitions of the tradition; to the entire history of artistic creativity belong plagiarism, literary theft, appropriation, incorporation, retelling, rewriting, recapitulation, revision, reprise, thematic variation, ironic retake, parody, imitation, stylistic theft, pastiches, collages, and deliberate assemblages. There is no rigorous and precise distinction between practices like imitation, stylistic plagiarism, copy, replica and forgery. These appropriation procedures are the main axis of a literate culture, in which the tradition of the canonic past is being constantly rewritten.\n\nRuth Graham quotes T.S. Eliot—\"Immature poets imitate; mature poets steal. Bad poets deface what they take.\"—she notes that despite the \"taboo\" of plagiarism, the ill-will and embarrassment it causes in the modern context, readers seem to often forgive the past excesses of historic literary offenders.\n\nA passage of Laurence Sterne's 1767 \"Tristram Shandy\" condemns plagiarism by resorting to plagiarism. Oliver Goldsmith commented:\n\nSterne's Writings, in which it is clearly shewn, that he, whose manner and style were so long thought original, was, in fact, the most unhesitating plagiarist who ever cribbed from his predecessors in order to garnish his own pages. It must be owned, at the same time, that Sterne selects the materials of his mosaic work with so much art, places them so well, and polishes them so highly, that in most cases we are disposed to pardon the want of originality, in consideration of the exquisite talent with which the borrowed materials are wrought up into the new form.\n\nFree online tools are becoming available to help identify plagiarism, and there are a range of approaches that attempt to limit online copying, such as disabling right clicking and placing warning banners regarding copyrights on web pages. Instances of plagiarism that involve copyright violation may be addressed by the rightful content owners sending a DMCA removal notice to the offending site-owner, or to the ISP that is hosting the offending site. The term \"content scraping\" has arisen to describe the copying and pasting of information from websites and blogs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "407940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=407940", "title": "Political machine", "text": "Political machine\n\nA political machine is a political group in which an authoritative boss or small group commands the support of a corps of supporters and businesses (usually campaign workers), who receive rewards for their efforts. The machine's power is based on the ability of the nuggets to get out the vote for their candidates on election day.\n\nAlthough these elements are common to most political parties and organizations, they are essential to political machines, which rely on hierarchy and rewards for political power, often enforced by a strong party whip structure. Machines sometimes have a political boss, often rely on patronage, the spoils system, \"behind-the-scenes\" control, and longstanding political ties within the structure of a representative democracy. Machines typically are organized on a permanent basis instead of a single election or event. The term may have a pejorative sense referring to corrupt political machines.\n\nThe term \"political machine\" dates back to the 20th century in the United States, where such organizations have existed in some municipalities and states since the 18th century. Similar machines have been described in Latin America, where the system has been called \"\" or political clientelism (after the similar Clientela relationship in the Roman Republic), especially in rural areas, and also in some African states and other emerging democracies, like postcommunist Eastern European countries. Japan's Liberal Democratic Party is often cited as another political machine, maintaining power in suburban and rural areas through its control of farm bureaus and road construction agencies. In Japan, the word \"jiban\" (literally \"base\" or \"foundation\") is the word used for political machines.\n\nThe \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" defines \"political machine\" as, \"in U.S. politics, a party organization, headed by a single boss or small autocratic group, that commands enough votes to maintain political and administrative control of a city, county, or state\". William Safire, in his \"Safire's Political Dictionary\", defines \"machine politics\" as \"the election of officials and the passage of legislation through the power of an organization created for political action\". He notes that the term is generally considered pejorative, often implying corruption.\n\nHierarchy and discipline are hallmarks of political machines. \"It generally means strict organization\", according to Safire. Quoting Edward Flynn, a Bronx County Democratic leader who ran the borough from 1922 until his death in 1953, he wrote \"[...] the so-called 'independent' voter is foolish to assume that a political machine is run solely on good will, or patronage. For it is not only a machine; it is an army. And in any organization as in any army, there must be discipline.\"\n\nPolitical patronage, while often associated with political machines, is not essential to the definition for either Safire or \"Britannica.\"\n\nA political machine is a party organization that recruits its members by the use of tangible incentives—money, political jobs—and that is characterized by a high degree of leadership control over member activity.\n\nPolitical machines started as grass roots organizations to gain the patronage needed to win the modern election. Having strong patronage, these \"clubs\" were the main driving force in gaining and getting out the \"straight party vote\" in the election districts.\n\nIn the late 19th century, large cities in the United States—Boston, Chicago, Cleveland, Kansas City, New York City, Philadelphia, St. Louis—were accused of using political machines. During this time \"cities experienced rapid growth under inefficient government\". Each city's machine lived under a hierarchical system with a \"boss\" who held the allegiance of local business leaders, elected officials and their appointees, and who knew the proverbial buttons to push to get things done. Benefits and problems both resulted from the rule of political machines.\n\nThis system of political control—known as \"bossism\"—emerged particularly in the Gilded Age. A single powerful figure (the boss) was at the center and was bound together to a complex organization of lesser figures (the political machine) by reciprocity in promoting financial and social self-interest. One of the most infamous of these political machines was Tammany Hall, the Democratic Party machine that played a major role in controlling New York City and New York politics and helping immigrants, most notably the Irish, rise up in American politics from the 1790s to the 1960s. From 1872, Tammany had an Irish \"boss\". However, Tammany Hall also served as an engine for graft and political corruption, perhaps most notoriously under William M. \"Boss\" Tweed in the mid-19th century.\n\nLord Bryce describes these political bosses saying:\n\nWhen asked if he was a boss, James Pendergast said simply,\n\nTheodore Roosevelt, before he became president in 1901, was deeply involved in New York City politics. He explains how the machine worked:\n\nThe organization of a party in our city is really much like that of an army. There is one great central boss, assisted by some trusted and able lieutenants; these communicate with the different district bosses, whom they alternately bully and assist. The district boss in turn has a number of half-subordinates, half-allies, under him; these latter choose the captains of the election districts, etc., and come into contact with the common heelers.\n\nMany machines formed in cities to serve immigrants to the U.S. in the late 19th century who viewed machines as a vehicle for political enfranchisement. Machine workers helped win elections by turning out large numbers of voters on election day. It was in the machine's interests to only maintain a minimally winning amount of support. Once they were in the majority and could count on a win, there was less need to recruit new members, as this only meant a thinner spread of the patronage rewards to be spread among the party members. As such, later-arriving immigrants, such as Jews, Italians, and other immigrants from Southern and Eastern Europe between the 1880s and 1910s, saw fewer rewards from the machine system than the well-established Irish. At the same time, the machines' staunchest opponents were members of the middle class, who were shocked at the malfeasance and did not need the financial help.\n\nThe corruption of urban politics in the United States was denounced by private citizens. They achieved national and state civil-service reform and worked to replace local patronage systems with civil service. By Theodore Roosevelt's time, the Progressive Era mobilized millions of private citizens to vote against the machines.\n\nIn the 1930s, James A. Farley was the chief dispenser of the Democratic Party's patronage system through the Post Office and the Works Progress Administration which eventually nationalized many of the job benefits machines provided. The New Deal allowed machines to recruit for the WPA and Civilian Conservation Corps, making Farley's machine the most powerful. All patronage was screened through Farley, including presidential appointments. The New Deal machine fell apart after he left the administration over the third term in 1940. Those agencies were abolished in 1943 and the machines suddenly lost much of their patronage. The formerly poor immigrants who had benefited under Farley's national machine had become assimilated and prosperous and no longer needed the informal or extralegal aides provided by machines. In the 1940s most of the big city machines collapsed, with the exception of Chicago. A local political machine in Tennessee was forcibly removed in what was known as the 1946 Battle of Athens.\nSmaller communities such as Parma, Ohio, in the post–Cold War Era under Prosecutor Bill Mason's \"Good Old Boys\" and especially communities in the Deep South, where small-town machine politics are relatively common, also feature what might be classified as political machines, although these organizations do not have the power and influence of the larger boss networks listed in this article. For example, the \"Cracker Party\" was a Democratic Party political machine that dominated city politics in Augusta, Georgia, for over half of the 20th century. Political machines also thrive on Native American reservations, where the veil of sovereignty is used as a shield against federal and state laws against the practice.\n\nThe phrase is considered derogatory \"because it suggests that the interest of the organization are placed before those of the general public\", according to Safire. Machines are criticized as undemocratic and inevitably encouraging corruption.\n\nSince the 1960s, some historians have reevaluated political machines, considering them corrupt but efficient. Machines were undemocratic but responsive. They were also able to contain the spending demands of special interests. In \"Mayors and Money\", a comparison of municipal government in Chicago and New York, Ester R. Fuchs credited the Cook County Democratic Organization with giving Mayor Richard J. Daley the political power to deny labor union contracts that the city could not afford and to make the state government assume burdensome costs like welfare and courts. Describing New York, Fuchs wrote, \"New York got reform, but it never got good government.\" At the same time, as Dennis R. Judd and Todd Swanstrom suggest in \"City Politics\" that this view accompanied the common belief that there were no viable alternatives. They go on to point out that this is a falsehood, since there are certainly examples of reform oriented, anti-machine leaders during this time.\n\nIn his mid-2016 article \"How American Politics Went Insane\" in \"The Atlantic\", Jonathan Rauch argued that the political machines of the past had flaws but provided better governance than the alternatives. He wrote that political machines created positive incentives for politicians to work together and compromise – as opposed to pursuing \"naked self-interest\" the whole time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25236821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25236821", "title": "Richard Kerry", "text": "Richard Kerry\n\nRichard John Kerry (July 28, 1915 – July 29, 2000) was an American Foreign Service officer and lawyer. He was the father of politicians John Kerry and Cameron Kerry.\n\nKerry was born in Brookline, Massachusetts, to Austrian-born shoe merchant Frederick A. \"Fred\" Kerry (May 11, 1873 – November 23, 1921) and Hungarian-born musician Ida Löwe (February 20, 1877 – January 19, 1960). He had an elder brother Eric (born c. 1901) and an elder sister Mildred (born 1910). Fred and Ida had changed their names from \"Fritz and Ida Kohn\" to \"Frederick and Ida Kerry\" in 1900 and converted from Judaism to Catholicism in 1901 or 1902. They were baptized at the same time as Eric. Fred's brother Otto also embraced Catholicism and took on the \"Kerry\" name. The \"Kerry\" name, widely misinterpreted as indicative of Irish heritage, was reputedly selected arbitrarily: \"According to family legend, Fritz and another family member opened an atlas at random and dropped a pencil on a map. It fell on County Kerry in Ireland, and thus a name was chosen.\" Leaving their hometown Mödling, a suburb of Vienna where they had lived since 1896, Fred, Ida, and Eric emigrated to the United States in 1905, living at first in Chicago and eventually moving to Brookline, Massachusetts, by 1915.\n\nFor a time, Fred Kerry was prosperous and successful in shoe business. Because of his wealth, the family was able to afford to travel to Europe in the autumn of 1921, returning on October 21. A few weeks later, on November 15, Fred Kerry filed a will leaving everything to Ida and then, on November 23, walked into a washroom of the Copley Plaza Hotel in Boston and committed suicide by shooting himself in the head with a handgun. The suicide was front-page news in all of the Boston newspapers, reporting at the time that the motive was severe asthma and related health problems, but family members stated that the motive was financial trouble: \"He had made three fortunes and when he had lost the third fortune, he couldn't face it anymore\", according to Eric's daughter Nancy. John Kerry has said that although he knew his paternal grandfather had come from Austria, he did not know until informed by \"The Boston Globe\" in January 2003 on the basis of their genealogical research that Fred Kerry had changed his name from \"Fritz Kohn\" and converted from Judaism to Catholicism nor that Ida's brother Otto and sister Jenni had died in Nazi concentration camps.\n\nRichard Kerry attended Phillips Academy, graduated from Yale University in 1937, and received his law degree from Harvard Law School in 1940.\n\nKerry joined the United States Army Air Corps in World War II and volunteered to become a test pilot. He flew C-47s and B-29s until contracting tuberculosis, after which he was discharged. Upon returning to Massachusetts after convalescing in Colorado, he became an Assistant United States Attorney. He moved to Washington, D.C., in 1949, where he worked in the office of the General Counsel for the Navy Department. Richard significantly influenced his son John's political views, and the two frequently bonded over politics. However, he was often emotionally distant from his son when not discussing politics.\n\nKerry entered the American foreign service and served as a diplomat in positions both in the United States and at foreign embassies, including in Germany and Norway. He also served as a lawyer in the Bureau of United Nations Affairs. Kerry authored \"The Star Spangled Mirror: America's Image of Itself and the World\" in 1990. In retirement Kerry engaged in his passion for sailing, making several Atlantic crossings, sailing the New England and Nova Scotia coasts solo, and racing sloops.\n\nKerry met nurse Rosemary Isabel Forbes in 1938 in Saint Briac, France, where he was taking a course in the sculpture of ship models and she was training as a nurse. They married on February 8, 1941, in Montgomery, Alabama, while he was a Cadet in the Army Air Corps. They had four children: Margaret (born 1941); John Kerry (born 1943); Diana (born 1947); and Cameron (born 1950).\n\nKerry died in at Massachusetts General Hospital on July 29, 2000 at age 85 from prostate cancer complications. He was buried in Mount Auburn Cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "51310077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51310077", "title": "Robert A. Berman", "text": "Robert A. Berman\n\nRobert A. Berman (born December 8, 1959) is an American businessman known for his contributions to the casino industry in the US. He has owned and directed several prominent organizations and companies including Empire Resorts and Monticello Raceway. He has also formed partnerships with numerous institutional investors, which led to the acquisition of hotel properties across the US. Berman’s plans to develop a casino 90 miles from New York City led to a contentious battle with Donald Trump that later led to Trump receiving the largest fine in the history of New York State’s lobbying commission. He was involved in several projects concerning the development of Native American gaming in the New York and Idaho area.\n\nRobert A. Berman’s father, Pip Berman, was a building contractor known for expanding the Concord Resort Hotel and the Imperial Room nightclub where Milton Berle, Sid Caesar, Buddy Hackett, Joan Rivers and Jerry Seinfeld performed. At 19 years of age, Robert A. Berman received the first mass gathering permit to operate an outdoor music festival in Sullivan County, New York where a decade earlier the 1969 Woodstock Music Festival was held. Collaborating with music impresario Sid Bernstein on the site of the former Avon Lodge Hotel in Woodridge, New York, Berman opened Music Mountain hosting artists including The Doobie Brothers, members of the Grateful Dead as the Jerry Garcia band and Bobby and the Midnights, Ozzy Osbourne, The Allman Brothers Band, Carlos Santana and various others.\n\nFrom 1995 to 2000, Berman co-founded and served as chairman and chief executive officer of Hospitality Worldwide Services (HWS), a publicly traded platform that became one of the most prominent service providers in the Hospitality Industry. By 1998, HWS had several thousand employees with offices around the world.\n\nFrom 1995 to 2000, Berman formed partnerships with institutional investors including ING and Apollo Global Management, which led to the acquisition of more than $100M worth of hotel properties including the Warwick Hotel in Philadelphia and the Radisson Hotel at Chicago’s O’Hare International Airport, amongst others. In 1996 he formed Catskill Development, LLC and purchased Monticello Racetrack. During this time Berman worked towards building a Casino in partnership with the St. Regis Mohawk Reservation Tribe of New York. In 2002 Stanley Tollman, founder o The Travel Corporation, assigned Berman to manage Alpha Hospitality, a public company directed by Tollman that aimed at administering a Casino for the Mohawk tribe. In 2003 he merged Catskill Development with Alpha Hospitality, creating Empire Resorts.\n\nFrom 2002 to 2005, Berman served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for Empire Resorts, a publicly traded NASDAQ (“NYNY”) gaming company. Berman is also General Partner of Avon Road Partners, LP a private entity that owns Real Estate and broadcast assets including WVOS (AM) & FM. In March 2016, Berman and James (Jim) McCarthy founded KeyStone Solutions, Inc.\n\nIn 1993 Berman began a project involving an Internet lottery venture in collaboration with the Coeur d'Alene people tribe in Idaho. The project campaigned towards bringing Native American gaming to the Catskill area. This led to federal approval to build the St. Regis Mohawk casino at Monticello Raceway in 2000, which caused rivalry with other regional casino owners, particularly Donald Trump. Trump funded an ad campaign to block the casino from being built by targeting the Mohawk tribe. Anti-Mohawk ads appeared in various newspapers suggesting the negative impact a Native American casino would have on the region. This resulted in Donald Trump receiving an unprecedented fine of $250,000 for secretly funding a lobbying campaign against Native American casinos.\n\nIn 1994 Berman worked with the Coeur d'Alene people to device the National Indian Lottery via the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act. The project led to the creation of the Coeur d’Alene Casino in Idaho on land donated in trust to the tribe for the project. Berman also worked with the Mohawk people to develop a casino in the Catskill region, New York. In 1998 the National Indian Gaming Commission approved the project to develop and operate a gaming facility on tribal lands. In 1999 the Mohawk people signed the deal with Caesars Entertainment Corporation instead. This led to a multibillion-dollar lawsuit that was eventually dismissed.\n\nRobert Berman has been married to Valerie J Berman since 2011. His previous spouse is Debbie N Berman, with whom he had two children, Alan Michael Berman and Jena Beth Berman. He and his family currently reside in Washington DC, US.\n\n"}
{"id": "5698165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5698165", "title": "Robert L. Gerry III", "text": "Robert L. Gerry III\n\nRobert Livingston \"Bobby\" Gerry III (born 20 September 1937) is a businessman and petroleum industry executive.\n\nRobert Livingston Gerry was born in New York City on September 20, 1937. He is the son of Robert L. Gerry, Jr (1911–1979) and Martha Leighton Kramer. His paternal grandparents were prominent thoroughbred horse breeders, Robert L. Gerry, Sr. (1877–1957) and Cornelia Averell Harriman (1884-1966). Gerry graduated Brooks School, class of 1956.\n\nHe is the nephew of horse breeder, Martha F. Gerry, the great-nephew of U.S. Senator Peter G. Gerry, Governor W. Averell Harriman, and E. Roland Harriman. Gerry is the great-grandson of railroad baron Edward Henry Harriman as his paternal grandmother was E. H. Harriman's daughter, Cornelia. He is also the 3x-great grandson of Elbridge Gerry, signer of the Declaration of Independence and the 5th Vice Presidents of the United States.\n\nGerry served two years of service in United States Army.\n\nGerry was the COO of Nuevo Energy, Co. from March 1990 to 1994, and vice chairman until 1997. Nuevo was eventually sold to Plains Exploration & Production Co.\n\nFrom 1997 to October 2013, he served as the Chief Executive Officer of Vaalco Energy Inc., a public oil company. Vaalco's primary source of revenue is from the Etame field located offshore Gabon in West Africa. Members of Board of Vaalco at the time he was executive include former Ambassador Will Farish and Robert H. Allen.\n\nHe is a member of the Board of Directors of Plains Exploration & Production Company since 2004. He has been a Trustee of Texas Children's Hospital, Houston from 1991 until c. 2006.\n\nIn 1963, Gerry married Sandra Isabel Lloyd Smith, the daughter of oil executive Lloyd Hilton Smith (1905–1999) and Elizabeth Keith Wiess, and the granddaughter of Harry Wiess, a founder of Humble Oil. Before their divorce, they had two children:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6050822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6050822", "title": "Robert L. Gerry Jr.", "text": "Robert L. Gerry Jr.\n\nRobert Livingston Gerry Jr. (December 5, 1911 – December 21, 1979) was an American polo player.\n\nGerry was born in New York City on December 5, 1911 to Robert L. Gerry Sr. and Cornelia Harriman. His eldest brother was Elbridge T. Gerry Sr. and his younger twin brothers were Henry Averell Gerry and Edward Harriman Gerry. Robert's father, a successful real estate developer, died at the family's estate, Aknusti, at the age of 81 on October 31, 1957, just a few hours after his brother, former U. S. Senator Peter Goelet Gerry, died in Providence, Rhode Island.\n\nRobert L. Gerry Jr. was the nephew of U.S. Senator Peter Goelet Gerry, Governor W. Averell Harriman, Junior League founder Mary Harriman, and E. Roland Harriman. His maternal grandfather was railroad baron E.H. Harriman and his paternal great-great grandfather was Thomas Russell Gerry, his great-great grandfather was Elbridge Gerry, a signer of the Declaration of Independence and Vice President of the United States.\n\nIn 1929, he won the USPA Open National Interscholastic Championship. In 1933, he won the USPA Junior Championship and in 1938, he won the USPA Twenty Goal Championship. In 1938, he won the Monty Waterbury Memorial Cup.\n\nGerry was a renowned polo player. He won the US Open Polo Championship twice, first in 1939 playing the #2 position for the Bostwick Field team, and second, in 1940 playing the #2 position for the Aknusti team. He lost in finals of 1941 championship while playing for the Aknusti team. From 1923 to 1941, all U.S. Open Polo Championship were played at Meadow Brook on Long Island, New York.\n\nThe 1939 Bostwick Field team included Pete Bostwick, Robert L. Gerry Jr., Elbridge T. Gerry Sr., Eric Horace Tyrrell-Martin. In the 1940 U.S. Open Polo Championship final, the Aknusti team beat Great Neck. The final score was a close 5 to 4. Playing for Aknusti that year were Gerald Smith, Robert L. Gerry Jr., Elbridge Gerry, and Alan Corey Jr. The 1941 Aknusti team was composed of Elbridge T. Gerry Sr., Robert L. Gerry Jr., Edward H. Gerry, and Pete Bostwick. In the U.S. Open finals, they played against Gulf Stream whose riders were Michael Grace Phipps, Ben Phipps, Charles Skiddy von Stade, and Alan L. Corey Jr., who beat Aknusti 10–6.\n\nAlso, an accomplished Court tennis player. Tuxedo Gold Racquet Singles Champion in 1946. Won the U.S. Amateur Doubles Championship in both 1949 and 1950 playing with Alastair Martin. Was a Charter Member of the United States Court Tennis Association.\n\nGerry married Martha Leighton Kramer, daughter of A. Ludlow Kramer. Together, they had:\nHe later married Harriet Wells.\n\nOwned until his death was his sprawling estate \"Aknusti\" (later renamed Broadlands) in the rolling hills of Delaware County, New York. It has acreage in the townships of Andes, Delhi, and Bovina New York. It is an almost contiguous estate with a polo field, multiple working farms, a . mountain ridge sited colonial manor house designed by Walker & Gillette, numerous dependencies, and landscaping done by Frederick Law Olmsted. That property has since been sold multiple times although it remains intact and owned by Amanresorts.\n\n"}
{"id": "32907172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32907172", "title": "Timothy Burns (Louisiana politician)", "text": "Timothy Burns (Louisiana politician)\n\nTimothy Gerard Burns (born April 1, 1957), also known as Tim Burns, is a tax attorney from Mandeville, Louisiana, who is a Republican former member of the Louisiana House of Representatives for District 89 in St. Tammany Parish.\n\nPolitical web sites do not indicate Burns's place of birth. He holds three degrees from Tulane University in New Orleans — Bachelor of Arts in economics in 1979, Master of Business Administration in 1980, and Juris Doctor in 1983. Burns is a Certified Public Accountant licensed in Louisiana.\n\nBurns nearly won outright the five-candidate, all-Republican nonpartisan blanket primary held on October 4, 2003. He led with 6,152 votes (46.7 percent). Susan Bonnett, with 3,534 votres (26.8 percent) ran second. Bonnett withdrew from the pending general election, and Burns won the seat outright. Burns was reelected without opposition in 2007.\n\nAfter the election of Republican Bobby Jindal as governor in 2007, Burns soon entered the special election called to fill Jindal's term in Louisiana's 1st congressional district. His principal rival was newly elected State Senator Steve Scalise of Jefferson. Burns accused Scalise of having used push polling to mislead voters in their congressional race. Under this system, a campaign contacts voters by telephone and asks probing questions which leave a negative impression of an opposing candidate. Scalise defended his poll from criticism by Burns: \"We were running a public opinion survey this week conducted by the largest Republican polling firm in the country, Public Opinion Strategies. . . . conducted with a sample of 300 people, and it shows Scalise at 57 percent, Burns at 26 percent and undecided at 17 percent. The margin of error is 5.6 percent. We ran a fact-based public opinion survey, not a push poll.\"\n\nIn the March 8, 2008, Republican primary, which was a closed election restricted to registered Republicans, Scalise polled 16,799 votes (48 percent). Burns received 9,631 votes (28 percent), and two other candidates, Ben Morris and David Simpson, shared some 24 percent of the ballots cast. In the runoff election on April 5, Scalise easily prevailed, 19,338 (58 percent) to Burns's 13,958 (41.9 percent).\n\nBurns serves on these House committees: (1) Health and Welfare, (2) Judiciary, and (3) Transportation, Highways, and Public Works.\n\nIn 2010, Burns was rated in his legislative voting record 100 percent by the Louisiana Association of Business and Industry and 89 percent from the Louisiana Family Forum. In 2009, he was rated 100 percent by the Louisiana Right to Life Federation\n\nBurns won his third and final term in the state House in the primary election held on October 22, 2011. He received 6,156 votes (69.1 percent) to 2,752 (30.9 percent) for his intraparty opponent, Pat Phillips. He was succeeded in January 2016 by another Republican, Reid Falconer of Madisonville in St. Tammany Parish, who defeated Pat Phillips in the primary election held on October 24, 2015.\n"}
{"id": "21661660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21661660", "title": "Trade commissioner", "text": "Trade commissioner\n\nTrade commissioner is the title of a government official whose primary duties are to promote international trade agreements and export trade programs on behalf of a national or regional government authority. Such envoys are normally posted abroad, often being permanently resident in the country or region to which they have been assigned, but in some cases are locally engaged employees. If assigned by an authority or organization lacking sovereignty, or if a local employee, a trade commissioner may not enjoy diplomatic status. The title Trade Commissioner is also used by some international organizations for the senior official responsible for trade.\n\nThe Canadian Trade Commissioner Service has 150 offices in Canada and abroad, employing both Canadian citizens and foreign nationals with this title.\n\nThe following international organizations have commissioners for trade and related issues:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15370341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15370341", "title": "Vietnam Software Association", "text": "Vietnam Software Association\n\nThe Vietnam Software Association, known for short as VINASA, is a software business association headquartered in Hanoi Software Centre, Hanoi, Vietnam. It was established in 2002. In 2005, they signed a cooperation agreement with the Japan External Trade Organization (JETRO). Among other activities, they organise an annual software contest; in 2006, they gave out 36 prizes to various individuals and organisations.\n\n"}
{"id": "12838923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12838923", "title": "William Brooks of Blackburn", "text": "William Brooks of Blackburn\n\nWilliam Brooks (1762–1846) was a supplier of cotton to spinners around Whalley and Blackburn.\n\nHe was the son of John Brooks of Waddington, Lancashire.\n\nHe went into partnership with Roger Cunliffe, of the Cunliffe family of Great Harwood, who had been mercers since Elizabethan times. At first cotton manufacturing was the main activity, but in 1792 they founded Cunliffe Brooks Bank at Blackburn. On Brooks' death in 1846 the bank moved its head office to Manchester.\n\nHe had married Sarah Greenall, the daughter of Richard Greenall They had three sons, including John and Samuel and a daughter, Nancy. They lived near Whalley, Lancashire.\n\n"}
