{"id": "55922701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55922701", "title": "107th Grey Cup", "text": "107th Grey Cup\n\nThe 107th Grey Cup will be played to decide the Canadian Football League (CFL) championship for the 2019 season. The game will be televised in Canada nationally on TSN and RDS. The game is scheduled to be played on November 24, 2019 at McMahon Stadium in Calgary, Alberta. It will be the fifth time that Calgary has hosted the Grey Cup, with the most recent coming in 2009.\n\nOn November 24, 2017, at the CFL's State of the League address, League Commissioner Randy Ambrosie stated that he was going to explore the possibility of having the Grey Cup during the third week of October. Reasons in favour of this were the weather being warmer in October as well as a potential television deal with the American-based NFL Network. Reasons against would be the increased overlap of the National Hockey League's Stanley Cup playoffs in May and June (since the season would also have to start one month earlier) as well as the CFL's playoffs overlapping Major League Baseball's playoffs in October. It was ultimately scheduled for its usual date (fourth Sunday of November) and will take place on November 24, 2019.\n\nLeading up to the formal announcement, the Hamilton Tiger-Cats and the Calgary Stampeders were the only clubs that publicly expressed interest in hosting the game. The Tiger-Cats' stadium, Tim Hortons Field was completed in 2014, but the city of Hamilton had not hosted a Grey Cup since the 84th Grey Cup in 1996. The main obstacle had been that multiple levels of government and the Tiger-Cats themselves have filed lawsuits against the construction firm due to the stadium construction delays and ongoing maintenance issues with the stadium itself. The club would also need support from Hamilton City Council. Temporary seating would have to be installed with the goal to raise seating capacity to 40,000. Tiger-Cats CEO, Scott Mitchell, had said that the team wanted to host this game in particular since it coincides with the 150th anniversary of the original Hamilton Football Club.\n\nAt the 2018 CFL Week, it was reported that the Stampeders were now the most likely host of the game. The team's president and general manager, John Hufnagel, confirmed that they had made a bid. The speculation was confirmed on April 25, 2018 in a formal announcement that Calgary had won the rights to host the game. It will mark the second time that the province of Alberta has hosted the Grey Cup in consecutive years, with Edmonton hosting the year prior (the two cities also hosted back-to-back games in 2009 and 2010).\n"}
{"id": "9587389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9587389", "title": "1994 Black Hawk shootdown incident", "text": "1994 Black Hawk shootdown incident\n\nThe 1994 Black Hawk shootdown incident, sometimes referred to as the Black Hawk Incident, was a friendly fire incident over northern Iraq that occurred on 14 April 1994 during Operation Provide Comfort (OPC). The pilots of two United States Air Force (USAF) F-15 fighter aircraft, operating under the control of a USAF airborne warning and control system (AWACS) aircraft, misidentified two United States Army UH-60 Black Hawk helicopters as Iraqi Mil Mi-24 \"Hind\" helicopters. The F-15 pilots fired on and destroyed both helicopters, killing all 26 military and civilians aboard, including personnel from the United States, United Kingdom, France, Turkey, and the Kurdish community.\n\nA subsequent USAF investigation blamed the accident on several factors. The F-15 pilots were faulted for misidentifying the helicopters as hostile. Also, the crew members of the AWACS aircraft were blamed for their inaction in failing to exercise appropriate control and for not intervening in the situation. In addition, the identification friend or foe (IFF) systems had not functioned to identify the helicopters to the F-15 pilots. Furthermore, USAF leaders had failed to adequately integrate U.S. Army helicopter operations into overall OPC air operations. As a result of the investigation several USAF officers received administrative discipline but only one, Jim Wang, an AWACS crew member, was tried by military court-martial, in which he was acquitted.\n\nAs a result of complaints by family members of the victims and others that the military was failing to hold its personnel accountable, the U.S. Senate and U.S. House conducted their own investigations into the shootdown and the U.S. military's response to it. Also, Ronald R. Fogleman, the USAF's new Chief of Staff, conducted his own review of the actions taken by the USAF against the officers involved in the incident.\n\nFogleman's investigation led to several of the officers involved in the incident receiving further administrative discipline. The U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) subsequently refused U.S. Senate subpoenas for four USAF officers to be interviewed for the Senate investigation, which was never publicly released. The U.S. House investigation, conducted in part by the Government Accountability Office (GAO), found that the military investigative and judicial systems had operated mostly as designed, but also noted that the DoD had refused access to key witnesses.\n\nOn 7 April 1991, Iraq accepted United Nations (UN) cease-fire conditions and resolutions, thereby officially ending the Gulf War. This same day, a large multinational, multiple-agency humanitarian effort under the authority of UN Security Council Resolution No. 688 began to aid the approximately 500,000 Kurdish refugees who had fled from Iraqi military forces into the hills of northern Iraq. On 18 April 1991, John Shalikashvili took command of the U.S.-led operation to ensure security for UN relief operations and the Kurdish refugees, called Operation Provide Comfort (OPC).\n\nOPC took place in an area of northern Iraq above the 36th parallel. This area, approximately in size, was designated a \"no-fly\" security zone by UN coalition forces, enforced by a combined task force (CTF) of daily armed aircraft patrols from participating nations, including the United Kingdom, France, Turkey, and the United States. The United States Army was tasked with assisting civilian relief agencies to build communities and facilities for the Kurds in Northern Iraq. Over the next three years, 27,000 fixed-wing and 1,400 helicopter coalition flights took place in the zone to support humanitarian operations without interference from Iraqi aircraft or other military units.\n\nIn April 1994 OPC was co-commanded by USAF Brigadier General Jeffrey Pilkington. The OPC combined air forces were commanded by Colonel Curtis H. Emery, USAF. Colonel Douglas J. Richardson, USAF, was the director of operations for the combined air forces.\n\nOn 14 April 1994, at 07:36 local time, a USAF E-3 AWACS aircraft from the 963d Airborne Air Control Squadron (based at Tinker Air Force Base, Oklahoma) departed Incirlik Air Base (AB), Turkey in support of OPC. The AWACS, with its 19-member crew under the mission crew command of Major Lawrence Tracy, was to provide airborne threat warning and air control for all OPC aircraft during its time aloft. The AWACS crew reported on station at its assigned surveillance orbit altitude of located inside Turkey just north of the northern border of Iraq at 08:45. The weather that day was fair and clear over northern Iraq.\n\nAt 08:22, two U.S. Army UH-60 Black Hawk helicopters from the 6th Battalion, 159th Aviation Regiment (based in Giebelstadt, Germany), called Eagle Flight, departed Diyarbakır, near Pirinçlik Air Base, Turkey headed for the OPC military coordination center (MCC) located away in Zakhu, Iraq. Both helicopters were fitted with external, fuel tanks on sponsons mounted beside each side door with each tank emblazoned with large American flags. In addition to the flags on the fuel tanks, each helicopter was marked with American flags on each side door, on the nose, and on the belly. The lead Black Hawk was piloted by U.S. Army Captain Patrick McKenna, commander of the Eagle Flight detachment of six helicopters.\n\nAt 09:21, the Black Hawks reported their entry into the no-fly zone by radio on the en route frequency to the AWACS en route controller, Lieutenant Joseph Halcli, and then landed six minutes later at the MCC. Halcli and his superior officer, Captain Jim Wang, the AWACS's senior director, added \"friendly helicopter\" tags to their radar scopes, noted that both helicopters were displaying identification friend or foe (IFF) Mode I and Mode II signals, and then suspended the radar symbols after the Black Hawks disappeared from their scopes upon landing at the MCC at 09:24. Although the helicopters were squawking (signalling) the wrong IFF Mode I code for the no-fly zone (called the Tactical Area of Responsibility or TAOR), neither Wang nor Halcli informed the Black Hawk pilots of that (both helicopters, however, were squawking the correct Mode II codes). Wang and Halcli also neglected to direct the Black Hawks to begin using the TAOR radio frequency instead of the en route frequency.\nAt the MCC, the Black Hawks picked up 16 members of the UN Provide Comfort coalition leadership team including four Kurdish civilians, one Chaldean-Catholic civilian, three Turkish, two British, and one French military officers, plus five U.S. civilian and military officials. At 09:54, the helicopters departed the MCC for Erbil, Iraq, a distance of . The Black Hawks reported their departure, flight route, and destinations by radio which was acknowledged by Halcli. Halcli then re-initiated the friendly helicopter track on his scope. Two of the Black Hawk passengers were Colonel Jerry Thompson, U.S. Army, commander of the MCC, and his replacement, Colonel Richard Mulhern, U.S. Army. At Arbil and later at Salah ad Din, Iraq, Thompson planned to introduce Mulhern to two prominent Kurdish leaders, Masoud Barzani and Jalal Talabani, as well as to UN representatives. Halcli placed tags on his radar screen to show the two Black Hawks' track and notified Wang of the helicopters' movement. In addition to Halcli's screen, the friendly helicopter symbols were visible on the radar screens of Wang, Tracy, and USAF Major Doug Martin. Martin was the \"Duke\" or \"ACE\" airborne command element on the AWACS, meaning that he was a rated aircrew member assigned to the crew to ensure that all engagement (combat) mandates were adhered to and executed as written in OPC policies.\n\nEn route to Arbil, at 10:12, the Black Hawks entered mountainous terrain and their radar returns disappeared from the AWACS's scopes. Captain Dierdre Bell, an air surveillance officer on the AWACS, noticed that the Black Hawks' radar and IFF returns had disappeared and sent an electronic \"attention arrow\" to Wang's scope. Wang took no action and the large blinking green arrow automatically disappeared from his screen after one minute.\nMeanwhile, at 09:35, two USAF F-15C fighter aircraft from the 53d Fighter Squadron, piloted by Captain Eric Wickson and Lieutenant Colonel Randy W. May, departed Incirlik AB. Their mission was to perform an initial fighter sweep of the TAOR to clear the area of any hostile aircraft prior to the entry of coalition forces. The air tasking order (ATO) that was supposed to list all scheduled coalition aircraft missions for that day and which the two pilots reviewed before takeoff, mentioned that U.S. Army Black Hawk helicopters would be operating in the TAOR that day but did not list takeoff times, routes, or flight durations for them. At 10:15, Wickson radioed Martin on the AWACS and asked if he had any information to pass to them to which Martin replied in the negative.\n\nAt 10:20, Wickson, the F-15C flight lead, reported entering northern Iraq to the AWACS controller responsible for air traffic inside the TAOR, USAF Lieutenant Ricky Wilson. The TAOR frequency that the F-15s were using was different from the en-route frequency being used by the two Black Hawks. Wilson, however, was monitoring both frequencies and being able to see both Black Hawks on his radar scope before they disappeared at 10:12. Wilson and the other AWACS crew members, many of whom were monitoring the F-15s' radio frequency, did not inform the F-15s that Black Hawks were currently operating in the TAOR. At 10:21, Wilson, believing that the Black Hawks had landed again, asked Wang if he could drop the friendly helicopter symbols from the AWACS's scopes and Wang approved the request. An AWACS crew instructor, Captain Mark Cathy, who was on the mission to assist the AWACS crew and supervise Wilson on this, his first mission into the TAOR, had retired to the back of the airplane at 10:00 to take a nap.\nAt 10:22, Wickson, flying at , reported a radar contact on a low-flying, slow-moving aircraft southeast of his current position. Wilson acknowledged Wickson's report with a \"clear there\" response, meaning that he had no radar contacts in that area. Unknown to the two F-15 pilots, the unidentified aircraft were the two U.S. Army Black Hawks. Contrary to standard procedure, neither Tracy nor Wang spoke up at this point to request that the AWACS crew members attempt to identify the F-15s' radar contacts.\n\nBoth F-15 pilots then electronically interrogated the radar target with their on-board IFF systems across two different modes (Mode I and Mode IV). Their IFF systems responded negatively to the attempt to identify the contact on Mode I. The Mode IV momentarily gave a positive response, but thereafter responded negatively and the F-15s moved to intercept the unidentified aircraft. Intermittent IFF Mode I and Mode II returns from the Black Hawks now began to show on Wilson's and other AWACS crew members' scopes and friendly helicopter symbols reappeared on Wang's scope. After closing to of the radar contacts, at 10:25 the F-15s again reported the contact to the AWACS and Wilson this time responded that he now had a radar contact at that reported location. Although the Black Hawk intermittent radar and now steady IFF returns on the AWACS scopes were in the same location as the unidentified contacts being tracked by the F-15s, none of the AWACS controllers advised Wickson or May that the contacts they were tracking might be friendly helicopters.\n\nThe two F-15s now initiated a visual identification (VID) pass of the contact. The VID pass entailed violating one of OPC's rules of engagement, which prohibited fighter aircraft from operating below above the ground. At this time the two Black Hawks had entered a deep valley and were cruising at a speed of about above the ground. Wickson's VID pass was conducted at a speed of about , above and to the left of the helicopters. At 10:28 Wickson reported \"Tally 2 Hinds\" and then passed the two Black Hawks. \"Hind\" is the NATO designation for the Mil Mi-24 helicopter, a helicopter that the Iraqi and Syrian militaries operated and was usually configured with armament on small, side-mounted wings. Wilson responded with \"Copy, Hinds\" and asked Wang, \"Sir, are you listening to this?\" Wang responded, \"Affirmative\" but offered no further guidance or comments.\n\nMay then conducted his own VID pass about above the helicopters and reported, \"Tally 2.\" May later stated to a USAF accident investigation board that his \"Tally 2\" call meant that he saw two helicopters but did not mean that he was confirming Wickson's identification of them as Hinds. Neither F-15 pilot had been informed that U.S. Army Black Hawks participating in OPC often carried auxiliary fuel tanks mounted on wings nor had either been instructed in the paint scheme that Iraqi Hind helicopters used, light brown and desert tan, which was different from the dark green color used by the Black Hawks. Wickson later stated that, \"I had no doubt when I looked at him that he was a Hind. . . . The Black Hawk did not even cross my mind.\"\n\nFollowing their VID passes, Wickson and May circled back behind the helicopters approximately . Because aircraft from various nations sometimes operated unannounced in the northern Iraq area, the OPC rules of engagement required the F-15 pilots to attempt to verify the nationality of the helicopters. Instead, at 10:28, Wickson notified the AWACS that he and May were \"engaged\" and instructed May to \"arm hot.\" At 10:30, Wickson fired an AIM-120 AMRAAM missile at the trail helicopter from a range of about . The missile hit and destroyed the trailing helicopter seven seconds later (). In response, the lead Black Hawk, piloted by McKenna, immediately turned left and dived for lower altitude in an apparent attempt to evade the unexpected attack. About 20 seconds later, May fired an AIM-9 Sidewinder missile at the lead helicopter from a range of about , hitting and shooting it down also about northeast of the trail helicopter (). All 26 people on board the two Black Hawks were killed. After flying over the wreckage of the two helicopters lying burning on the ground, May radioed Wickson, \"Stick a fork in them, they're done.\"\n\nBy 13:15 local time, Kurdish civilians notified the MCC that they had witnessed the two Black Hawks being shot down north of Arbil and that there were no survivors. The news was quickly picked up by the media and broadcast by CNN.\n\nWithin hours, U.S. President Bill Clinton was briefed on the shootdown and called the heads of government of the United Kingdom and France, John Major and François Mitterrand, to express regret and sympathy for the deaths of their citizens in the incident. Clinton then appeared a few hours later in a televised news conference in which he stated that he had directed the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) to lead an inquiry into the accident. Clinton further stated, \"We will get the facts, and we will make them available to the American people and to the people of Britain, France, and Turkey, our partners in Operation Provide Comfort.\"\n\nGeneral Robert C. Oaks, USAF, Commander of United States Air Forces in Europe, immediately appointed an Air Force Regulation (AFR) 110-14 accident investigation board composed of a board president, 11 board members from the USAF and U.S. Army, three associate members from France, Turkey, and the United Kingdom, four legal advisers, and 13 technical advisers. The board president was Major General James G. Andrus, USAF. An AFR 110-14 investigation's findings are publicly released and the testimony of witnesses in the investigation can be used against them in military disciplinary proceedings. For this reason, after serious mishaps the USAF usually also conducts a separate safety investigation, in which the results are not publicly released and witness testimony is immune from prosecution. In this case, however, for unknown reasons the USAF decided not to conduct a safety investigation.\n\nAfter interviewing 137 witnesses and conducting numerous tests, the 27-volume, 3,630-page AFR 110-14 investigation report was publicly released on 13 July 1994, although some report's details had been leaked to the media by unknown defense officials two weeks earlier. The board made seven general findings about what they believed caused the shootdown to occur:\nThe board report stated that, \"There is no indication that the AWACS Senior Director (Wang), the Mission Crew Commander (Tracy) and/or the DUKE (Martin) made any radio calls throughout the intercept, or that they issued any guidance to either the AWACS crew or the F-15 pilots.\" Although the OPC ROE did task the AWACS with controlling and monitoring helicopter operations in the TAOR, the board found that the AWACS crew believed that they had no responsibility for controlling U.S. Army Black Hawks or ensuring that other coalition aircraft were aware of Black Hawks operating in the TAOR. When questioned by board investigators as to who was responsible for tracking the helicopters, Tracy said, \"I cannot tell you that. I honestly don't know.\" When Wang was asked the same question by the investigators, he replied, \"No one is responsible.\" When the investigators asked Martin what action he took when the F-15s called a visual identification on two Hind helicopters, Martin stated, \"I did nothing.\"\n\nThe board found that combined OPC forces, led by Pilkington, Emery, Richardson, and other USAF officers, had failed to integrate helicopters into aircraft operations in the TAOR. An Eagle Flight officer later testified that he had been told by the CTF's chief of staff, a USAF officer, that the army Black Hawk unit was not considered to be part of OPC. Thus, the CTF staff, under the direction of Colonel James Rusty O'Brien, USAF, had not tried to coordinate the U.S. Army Black Hawk missions into the daily ATOs. In fact, neither O'Brien nor his predecessors had established any type of procedure for communicating information on Black Hawk missions to the Combined Forces Air Component (CFAC). The MCC commander, Colonel Thompson, had personally called O'Brien on the night of 13 April to tell him about the next day's Black Hawk mission into northern Iraq, a mission that had been specifically and personally approved by Pilkington earlier that day. O'Brien or his staff apparently did not attempt to communicate specific information on this mission to the AWACS or F-15 fighter units at Incirlik, the CFAC, the ground-based mission director, or to the \"Duke\" on board the AWACS.\nFor reasons that USAF officers were unable to explain, two versions of each day's ATO were published, one for the USAF units at Incirlik, and another for the Eagle Flight unit at Pirinclik. The ATO version sent to Eagle Flight, for unknown reasons, gave a wrong IFF Mode I code for the TAOR. Although army Black Hawks had been operating for almost two years in the TAOR while squawking a wrong code and observed doing so by numerous AWACS crews, no one ever told them that they were using a wrong code. On the day of the shootdown, the F-15s had interrogated the Black Hawks on two different IFF Modes (Mode I and Mode IV). The first responded negatively because the Black Hawks were squawking the wrong code. The second mode responded negatively for technical reasons that the investigation was unable to conclusively determine.\n\nThe board did not investigate whether any USAF institutional factors, such as a lack of crew resource management training for the involved aircrews, might have been a factor. Also, the board did not attempt to determine if Wickson and May had violated any of the existing OPC rules of engagement as defined by the ATO or other written instructions.\n\nThe United States Secretary of Defense, William Perry, later summarized the \"errors, omissions, and failures\" contributing to the accident as, \"The F-15 pilots misidentified the Black Hawks, the AWACS crew failed to intervene, Eagle Flight and their operations were not integrated into the Task Force, and the IFF systems failed.\" General Shalikashvili, now serving as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, added that, \"There were a shocking number of instances where people failed to do their job properly.\"\n\nOn 8 September 1994 the DoD announced the actions it would take in response to the investigation's findings. May was charged with 26 counts of negligent homicide by military legal authorities. Martin, Tracy, Wang, Halcli, and Wilson were charged with dereliction of duty. All of those charged faced an Article 32 hearing in which it would be decided if they should be tried by court-martial or the matter disposed of otherwise. Martin, Tracy, Wang, Halcli, and Wilson faced a joint Article 32 hearing while May's hearing was separate. Wickson was not charged. Although not explicitly stated by USAF leaders, it appears that Wickson was not charged but May was because Wickson had testified that he was sure of his identification of the two Black Hawks as hostile Hinds, while May had stated that he was not sure of Wickson's identification but had allowed the engagement to proceed anyway.\nMartin and Halcli waived their rights to the Article 32 hearing, meaning that their cases could move immediately to court-martial or administrative action. Wickson was given immunity by USAF Lieutenant General Eugene Santarelli, commander of the 17th Air Force, to testify at the hearings. The AWACS crew members' hearing, which began on 19 October 1994 at Tinker Air Force Base, Oklahoma was an open hearing and presided over by Colonel William Colwell, USAF, under the legal jurisdiction of Lieutenant General Stephen Croker, USAF, commander of the 8th Air Force. May's hearing, beginning on 7 November 1994 at Sembach Air Base, Germany was a closed hearing and presided over by Colonel Edward M. Starr, USAF, under the legal jurisdiction of Santarelli. Pilkington, Emery, Richardson, and O'Brien declined requests to testify at either hearing.\n\nOn 17 November 1994 the USAF announced that Colwell had recommended to Croker that Wang face court-martial and that Halcli receive nonjudicial administrative action on the dereliction of duty charges. Colwell recommended that the formal dereliction of duty charges be dropped against the other AWACS crew members, but that they could still face nonjudicial action. Croker accepted Colwell's recommendation and ordered Wang to face court-martial and dismissed the criminal charges against the other AWACS crew members except Halcli, who was offered Article 15 action.\n\nAt his hearing, May changed his testimony from what he gave to the accident investigation board, stating that he \"had\" positively identified the two helicopters as Iraqi Hinds. Brigadier General John R. Dallager, an F-15 pilot and Wickson's and May's wing commander (52nd Fighter Wing) and regimental court-martial 303 inquiry officer, stated that he found May's errors in the shootdown \"reasonable.\" Starr recommended that the charges against May be dropped, stating that he found May's testimony to be believable. On 27 December 1994 the USAF announced that Santarelli, an F-15 pilot, had dismissed the charges against May and had decided not to pursue criminal disciplinary actions against any other OPC personnel under his legal jurisdiction, including Wickson, Pilkington, Emery, Richardson, and O'Brien. In January 1995 a USAF flying board returned Wickson and May, who had been grounded since the incident, to flying status. Subsequently, Wickson was transferred to Randolph Air Force Base, Texas, to undergo instructor pilot training with a follow-on assignment to Columbus Air Force Base, Mississippi.\nThe USAF later announced the administrative actions taken against the other personnel involved in the shootdown. Pilkington, Emery, and Richardson received letters of admonishment. Martin, May, O'Brien, Tracy, Wickson, and Wilson received letters of reprimand. Halcli accepted an Article 15 action which resulted in his receiving a letter of reprimand. The personnel involved were allowed to petition for the removal of the letters from their records at a future time. The reprimands were placed in \"unfavorable information files\" for each individual and were normally removed after two years. General George Joulwan, U.S. Army, Supreme Allied Commander, Europe, removed Pilkington as commander of OPC but the USAF retained him as commander of the 86th Airlift Wing at Ramstein Air Base, Germany. O'Brien and Emery were transferred to staff positions at the Pentagon. Richardson was transferred to a staff position at Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe. Emery had been promoted to brigadier general on 15 July 1994 and his promotion was allowed to stand.\n\nWang's court-martial took place, beginning on 2 June 1995, at Tinker Air Force Base. Wang was tried on three counts of dereliction of duty. Most of the personnel involved in the incident, except May, were called to testify, including the AWACS crew members, Wickson, and Pilkington. Most of the 40 witnesses testified with a grant of immunity.\n\nDuring the trial, evidence was presented that Wang often had trouble staying awake during AWACS missions. In fact, the problem was considered serious enough that the military had referred Wang to medical authorities to be checked for narcolepsy. Wang had also previously failed two check rides.\n\nPilkington, an F-16 pilot, testified that as commander of OPC he had sent numerous aircrew members, the majority of them F-15 pilots, back to their home bases for violating OPC rules or procedures or for displaying a lack of good judgment. In response to questions on the F-15 pilot's actions resulting in the shootdown, Pilkington stated, \"I don't understand and I will probably never understand Wickson's mindset.\" When asked if Wickson and May violated OPC rules of engagement in the incident, Pilkington responded, \"Yes.\" AWACS crew members added in their testimonies that once Wickson and May visually identified the helicopters as hostile, all responsibility for the shootdown passed to the F-15 pilots.\nFrank Spinner, Wang's civilian attorney, argued that USAF Chief of Staff General Merrill McPeak, a career fighter pilot, had made clear that he did not want Wickson and May punished for their actions in the shootdown. Cited as evidence for this was a \"Los Angeles Times\" report, published also in the European \"Stars and Stripes\" newspaper on 18 June 1994 that stated that McPeak \"strongly opposed\" court-martial action for Wickson or May. Pilkington stated that he had heard rumors that McPeak had said something to that effect, but could not confirm if they were true or not.\n\nOn 20 June 1995 the USAF announced a \"nullification\" verdict by Wang's 10-member court-martial jury, effectively acquitting Wang of the charges. Nullification is not a finding of innocence, but instead it is a refusal to convict on the stated charges. After the verdict, Wang stated, \"I want to say the fight is nowhere near over for me. I want a congressional hearing or investigation into why I was the only person charged.\" Major General Nolan Sklute, the USAF's top legal officer, stated, \"An incident like this does not necessarily mean that the conduct of all those involved rises to the level of criminal culpability. I'm satisfied with the handling of the case.\" Secretary of the Air Force Sheila Widnall added, \"The Black Hawk helicopters were downed as a result of a tragic series of errors and unfortunate events involving numerous people. The mishap was not the result of any one individual's actions; the conduct of numerous officers and the system itself contributed.\"\n\nOn 17 July 1995, U.S. Senator William Roth, chairman of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, authorized a Senate investigation into the incident, primarily in response to complaints from family members of the shootdown victims that it appeared that the U.S. military was not holding anyone seriously accountable for the shootdown. Also in response to complaints about the DoD's response to the incident, the U.S. House of Representatives' Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel scheduled a hearing on the incident for 3 August 1995 to examine the accident investigation and the judicial actions that followed. In addition, on 24 July the DoD ordered the USAF to reexamine the disciplinary and administrative actions for the personnel involved in the shootdown and for the Joint Chiefs of Staff to review the corrective actions taken against those involved and determine whether further action was necessary. Widnall requested that the new USAF chief of staff, Ronald R. Fogleman begin his own review of accountability for the incident.\n\nThe House Committee on National Security hearing on 3 August was presided over by Congressman Bob Dornan and lasted one day. At the hearing, Pilkington and Andrus explained how the USAF accident investigation was conducted and emphasized that Wickson and May violated the OPC rules of engagement by conducting a VID pass of the Black Hawks that was inadequate to determine the helicopter's national origin. Andrus stated, \"Sir, as a pilot, I would have made another pass. You would never fire until you know what you are shooting at.\" Retired USAF colonel and pilot Jerry Cox expressed concern to the Committee with the F-15 pilots for not taking responsibility for their actions.\nOn 10 August 1995 Fogleman spoke at a press conference at the Pentagon in which he announced the conclusions reached by his review into the accountability of USAF personnel involved in the shootdown incident. He stated that his investigation found that not all the performance evaluations for the individuals involved in the shootdown reflected the fact that they had received administrative action related to the incident. Fogleman stated, \"The fact that the conduct of some individuals did not give rise to criminal prosecution or conviction should not end the inquiry into the appropriateness of their actions. Air Force standards require that people display the extraordinary discipline, judgment, and training that their duties require and that the American people expect.\"\n\nFogleman then announced that he had directed that Wickson, May, Wang, Halcli, and Wilson be disqualified from aviation service duties for at least three years. Also, Fogleman wrote and placed \"letters of evaluation\" in the permanent personnel files of Wickson, May, Wang, Halcli, Wilson, Pilkington, and Emery that stated that each had failed \"to meet Air Force standards in job knowledge, judgment and leadership\". In addition, a military decoration awarded to O'Brien for his service during OPC was rescinded. A videotape in which Fogleman described his actions related to the incident and his views on standards and accountability was distributed throughout the USAF and all USAF officers, senior non-commissioned officers, and Senior Executive Service civilians were ordered to view it. Fogleman further stated that he had found that the military justice system had \"worked as it was designed to work\".\n\nBeginning in September 1995 and continuing for more than one year, Roth's Senate inquiry into the shootdown, led by Eric Thorson, investigated the incident. Thorson later stated his belief that the USAF accident investigation report and subsequent proceedings had been manipulated in order to avoid holding Wickson and May accountable for their actions. Thorson also stated that he believed that Starr had submitted an inaccurate and misleading report on May's Article 32 hearing to the USAF commanding officers, including Dallager and Santarelli. With regard to the AWACS personnel, Thorson added that, \"We know some of the AWACS crew were incompetent beyond belief, and there is more than adequate evidence to conclude that several crewmembers were grossly negligent.\"\n\nIn August 1996, Roth's investigation board asked the DoD to produce the last four witnesses it wished to interview: Santarelli, Starr, Dallager, and Colonel C. G. Mangin. Mangin was Santarelli's legal adviser during the Wickson and May inquiry. The DoD refused the request to provide access to the four officers. A short time later, John White, U.S. Deputy Secretary of Defense, wrote a letter to Roth in which he asked that those four officers not be deposed.\n\nAfter further refusals from the USAF and DoD to provide the four officers for interview, Roth's committee gave the DoD and USAF until 14:30 on 31 October 1996 to provide the officers. The deadline passed without the officers appearing before the board. The next day the board sent senate subpoenas directly to the USAF headquarters office at the Pentagon, which refused to accept them. After learning that the senate was now planning to individually serve the four subpoenas directly to the four officers, the associate chief of the Air Force litigation division accepted the subpoenas.\nOn 13 November 1996 the day the first subpoenaed USAF officer was scheduled to appear, the DoD delivered a letter to Roth, signed by its general counsel, Judith Miller, stating that the DoD believed the subpoenas were invalid because they were issued \"after the adjournment of \"sine die\" of the 104th Congress\" and was therefore not going to honor the subpoenas by providing the four officers for interview. Roth replied to the DoD that only the Senate's legal counsel could determine the validity of congressional subpoenas because of the \"separation of powers\" principle in the U.S. Constitution and thus, the subpoenas were valid. The DoD, on 20 November in another letter signed by Miller again refused to produce the witnesses. Roth, whose committee chairmanship was scheduled to end the next month, was told by the U.S. Department of Justice that the U.S. Attorney General, Janet Reno, would not support him if he chose to take the dispute with the DoD to court. Also, many of Roth's senate colleagues, including John McCain, were asking him to \"back off\". Thus, Roth decided to drop the matter and continue preparing the report without the testimony of Santarelli, Dallager, Starr, and Mangin. For the first time in U.S. history, the DoD had refused to comply with a U.S. Senate subpoena.\n\nIn January 1997 U.S. Senator Fred Thompson became chairman of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations and terminated the Black Hawk investigation. The senate investigation report was never publicly released. Asked in 2001 about the DoD's refusal to honor the Senate subpoenas, Thorson responded, \"Basically they told the United States Senate to go to hell.\"\n\nIn September 1995 the House National Security Subcommittee on Military Personnel, chaired by Bob Dornan, requested that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) conduct its own investigation into the shootdown incident. Specifically, the GAO was asked to determine if the USAF accident investigation board had met its objectives, if the subsequent military justice investigations had followed established guidelines, and if the DoD and/or USAF had improperly or unlawfully influenced these investigations.\n\nThe GAO released its investigation report on 12 November 1997. The investigation determined that the USAF accident investigation was properly convened and met its assigned objectives. The GAO report, however, found that the USAF investigation had failed to note that Wickson and May neglected to report their contact with unidentified aircraft to the Duke (Martin) aboard the AWACS as required by the ROE. Furthermore, the USAF investigation report incorrectly stated that Martin had no authority to terminate the engagement when, in fact, he did. The GAO report added that the failure of Wickson and May to report their contact to Martin was indicative of a well-known, general lack of discipline among F-15 aircrews involved in OPC and this was not discussed in the USAF report.\n\nThe GAO investigation also uncovered evidence that a rivalry between F-15 and F-16 pilots may have contributed to Wickson's and May's \"urgency to engage hostile aircraft\" but was not discussed in the USAF investigation. During the GAO's investigation, USAF OPC officers confirmed that the rivalry between the F-15 and F-16 communities was particularly pronounced and intense partly due to the fact that F-16 aircraft had scored all the air-to-air combat kills in Iraq and Bosnia since the end of the Gulf War. Pilkington stated to the GAO that, \"the shootdown pilots' haste was due in part to the planned entry of two F-16s into the TAOR 10 to 15 minutes after the F-15s and that if the F-15 pilots had involved the chain of command, the pace would have slowed down, ruining the pilots' chances for a shootdown.\" The GAO concluded that if the evidence of a lack of mission discipline by Wickson and May had been included in the USAF report, such information \"could have been useful in subsequent administrative and disciplinary actions.\"\n\nAnother aspect that the GAO investigation revealed was that the training F-15 pilots received for identifying helicopters was not adequate. Visual ID training was accomplished by reviewing slides on a 35mm projector. Helicopters only made up about 5% of the training slides and nearly all the pictures depicted helicopters from the ground looking up because the pictures were provided by the U.S. Army. Investigators also learned from interviewing other F-15 pilots that helicopter recognition was not regarded as an important skill within the F-15 pilot community because helicopters are not considered a threat to F-15s in air-to-air combat.\n\nThe GAO found no evidence of improper or unlawful command influence by USAF leaders on the investigation or subsequent administrative and military justice actions. The GAO noted, however, that it was unable to obtain complete confirmation of this finding because the DoD denied the GAO request to interview key USAF officials including Santarelli, Dallager, Starr, and Mangin.\n\nOn 26 August 1994, the U.S. Department of Defense announced that it would pay US$100,000 (ex gratia) in compensation to the families of each of the non-U.S. personnel killed in the incident. At this time, the U.S. government, citing the Feres precedent, did not offer compensation to the families of the U.S. victims. This was the first time that the U.S. had offered compensation to the victims of a friendly fire incident.\n\nIn 1998, Congressman Lamar S. Smith, chairman of the Subcommittee on Immigration and Claims, held hearings on the compensation issue. He questioned the DoD representatives as to why compensation had not also been offered to the U.S. family members. In November 1999 the U.S. Congress passed legislation authorizing payment of compensation to the families of the American Black Hawk victims.\n\nFive days after the shootdown, USAF OPC officials began including Black Hawk flight times in the daily ATO and included the correct IFF code in the ATO provided to Eagle Flight. OPC officially ended on 31 December 1996. Over the six years of the operation, coalition participants flew a total of 62,000 fixed-wing and rotary-wing sorties. The Black Hawk shootdown was the only serious accident to occur during the operation.\n\nWickson resigned and May retired from the USAF soon after Fogleman's investigation was completed. Lawrence Tracy retired immediately after Wang's court-martial on an early (15-year) retirement option. Jim Wang was still serving in the USAF, but he remained at the rank of captain, having been denied promotion. Interviewed in 2005 about the shootdown, Tracy stated, \"Jim (Wang) and all of us at first were held up as scapegoats. I think that was to cover up for the pilots. They had their fangs out. They wanted to kill something because it had been ages since an F-15 had shot anything down. We were held accountable for their actions.\"\n\nAndrus retired from the USAF in 1995, Pilkington in 1996, Emery in 1997, and Santarelli in 1998, all at the same rank they held at the time of the shootdown, except Emery, who retired as a brigadier general. Richardson was promoted to brigadier general on 1 July 1999 and retired on 1 September 2001. Dallager was appointed as superintendent of the USAF Academy in June 2000 and was promoted to lieutenant general on 1 August of the same year. Dallager's appointment and promotion were criticized by observers because of his involvement in the controversial shootdown after-actions and refusal to testify for the senate investigation. Dallager retired on 1 September 2003, but at the rank of major general.\n\nA monument to the 26 victims of the shootdown was constructed at Giebelstadt Army Airfield, Germany and dedicated on 14 April 1996. After U.S. military presence ceased at Giebelstadt, due to base closures, the monument was moved to Fort Rucker, Alabama on 10 March 2006, and rededicated on 14 April 2007.\n\n\"The 53rd FS 'Tigers' never fully recovered from the dark blemish on their otherwise exemplary record. The only way the USAF could make the issue and the pain go away was by closing the unit. This was done on March 10, 1999, leaving USAFE with only one Eagle squadron for the next war in its theater.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29216687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29216687", "title": "2003 Central Asian Games", "text": "2003 Central Asian Games\n\nThe 2003 Central Asian Games also known as the 5th Central Asian Games were held in Dushanbe, Tajikistan in 2003.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1659790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1659790", "title": "Anthropogenic hazard", "text": "Anthropogenic hazard\n\nAnthropogenic hazards are hazards caused by human action or inaction. They are contrasted with natural hazards. Anthropogenic hazards may adversely affect humans, other organisms, biomes and ecosystems. The frequency and severity of hazards are key elements in some risk analysis methodologies.\nHazards may also be described in relation to the impact that they have. A hazard only exists if there is a pathway to exposure. As an example, the center of the earth consists of molten material at very high temperatures which would be a severe hazard if contact was made with the core. However, there is no feasible way of making contact with the core, therefore the center of the earth currently poses no hazard.\n\nThere are certain societal hazards that can occur by inadvertently overlooking a hazard, a failure to notice or by purposeful intent by human inaction or neglect, consequences as a result of little or no preemptive actions to prevent a hazard from occurring. Although not everything is within the scope of human control, there is anti-social behaviour and crimes committed by individuals or groups that can be prevented by reasonable apprehension of injury or death. People commonly report dangerous circumstances, suspicious behaviour or criminal intentions to the police and for the authorities to investigate or intervene.\n\nBehavior which puts others at risk of injury or death is universally regarded as criminal and is a breach of the law for which the appropriate legal authority may impose some form of penalty, such as imprisonment, a fine, or even execution. Understanding what makes individuals act in a way that puts others at risk has been the subject of much research in many developed countries. Mitigating the hazard of criminality is very dependent on time and place with some areas and times of day posing a greater risk than others.\n\nCivil disorder is a broad term that is typically used by law enforcement to describe forms of disturbance when many people are involved and are set upon a common aim. Civil disorder has many causes, including large-scale criminal conspiracy, socio-economic factors (unemployment, poverty), hostility between racial and ethnic groups and outrage over perceived moral and legal transgressions. Examples of well-known civil disorders and riots are the Poll Tax Riots in the United Kingdom in 1990; the 1992 Los Angeles riots in which 53 people died; the 2008 Greek riots after a 15-year-old boy was fatally shot by police; and the 2010 Thai political protests in Bangkok during which 91 people died. Such behavior is only hazardous for those directly involved as participants or those controlling the disturbance or those indirectly involved as passers-by or shopkeepers for example. For the great majority, staying out of the way of the disturbance eliminates the hazard.\n\nThe common definition of terrorism is the use or threatened use of violence for the purpose of creating fear in order to achieve a political, religious, or ideological goal. Targets of terrorist acts can be anyone, including private citizens, government officials, military personnel, law enforcement officers, firefighters, or people serving in the interests of governments.\n\nDefinitions of terrorism may also vary geographically. In Australia, the Security Legislation Amendment (Terrorism) Act 2002, defines terrorism as \"an action to advance a political, religious or ideological cause and with the intention of coercing the government or intimidating the public\", while the United States Department of State operationally describes it as \"premeditated, motivated violence perpetrated against non-combatant targets by sub national groups or clandestine agents, usually intended to influence an audience\".\n\nWar is a conflict between relatively large groups of people, which involves physical force inflicted by the use of weapons. Warfare has destroyed entire cultures, countries, economies and inflicted great suffering on humanity. Other terms for war can include armed conflict, hostilities, and police action. Acts of war are normally excluded from insurance contracts and sometimes from disaster planning.\n\nIndustrial accidents resulting in releases of hazardous materials usually occur in a commercial context, such as mining accidents. They often have an environmental impact but also can be hazardous for people living in proximity. The Bhopal disaster saw the release of methyl isocyanate into the neighbouring environment seriously affecting large numbers of people. It is probably the world's worst industrial accident to date.\n\nEngineering hazards occur when structures used by people fail or the materials used in their construction prove to be hazardous. This history of construction has many examples of hazards associated with structures including bridge failures such as the Tay Bridge disaster caused by under-design, the Silver Bridge collapse caused by corrosion attack or the original Tacoma Narrows Bridge caused by aerodynamic flutter of the deck. Failure of dams was not infrequent during the Victorian era, such as the Dale Dyke dam failure in Sheffield, England in 1864, causing the Great Sheffield Flood, which killed at least 240 people. In 1889, the failure of the South Fork Dam on the Little Conemaugh River near Johnstown, Pennsylvania, produced the Johnstown Flood, which killed over 2,200. Other failures include balcony collapses, aerial walkway collapses such as the Hyatt Regency walkway collapse in Kansas City in 1981, and building collapses such as that of the World Trade Center in New York City in 2001 during the September 11 attacks.\n\nIn managing waste many hazardous materials are put in the domestic and commercial waste stream. In part this is because modern technological living uses certain toxic or poisonous materials in the electronics and chemical industries. Which, when they are in use or transported, are usually safely contained or encapsulated and packaged to avoid any exposure. In the waste stream, the waste products exterior or encapsulation breaks or degrades and there is a release and exposure to hazardous materials into the environment, for people working in the waste disposal industry, those living around sites used for waste disposal or landfill and the general environment surrounding such sites.\n\nA power outage is an interruption of normal sources of electrical power. Short-term power outages (up to a few hours) are common and have minor adverse effect, since most businesses and health facilities are prepared to deal with them. Extended power outages, however, can disrupt personal and business activities as well as medical and rescue services, leading to business losses and medical emergencies. Extended loss of power can lead to civil disorder, as in the New York City blackout of 1977. Only very rarely do power outages escalate to disaster proportions, however, they often accompany other types of disasters, such as hurricanes and floods, which hampers relief efforts.\n\nElectromagnetic pulses and voltage spikes from whatever cause can also damage electricity infrastructure and electrical devices.\n\nRecent notable power outages include the 2005 Java–Bali Blackout which affected 100 million people, 2012 India blackouts which affected 600 million and the 2009 Brazil and Paraguay blackout which affected 60 million people.\n\nBush fires, forest fires, and mine fires are generally started by lightning, but also by human negligence or arson. They can burn thousands of square kilometers. If a fire intensifies enough to produce its own winds and \"weather\", it will form into a firestorm. A good example of a mine fire is the one near Centralia, Pennsylvania. Started in 1962, it ruined the town and continues to burn today. Some of the biggest city-related fires are The Great Chicago Fire, The Peshtigo Fire (both of 1871) and the Great Fire of London in 1666.\n\nCasualties resulting from fires, regardless of their source or initial cause, can be aggravated by inadequate emergency preparedness. Such hazards as a lack of accessible emergency exits, poorly marked escape routes, or improperly maintained fire extinguishers or sprinkler systems may result in many more deaths and injuries than might occur with such protections.\n\nArson is the setting a fire with intent to cause damage. The definition of arson was originally limited to setting fire to buildings, but was later expanded to include other objects, such as bridges, vehicles, and private property. Some human-induced fires are accidental: failing machinery such as a kitchen stove is a major cause of accidental fires.\n\nOrganohalogens are a family of synthetic organic molecules which all contain atoms of one of the halogens. Such materials include PCBs, Dioxins, DDT, Freon and many others. Although considered harmless when first produced, many of these compounds are now known to have profound physiological effects on many organisms including man. Many are also fat soluble and become concentrated through the food chain.\n\nMany metals and their salts can exhibit toxicity to humans and many other organisms. Such metals include, Lead, Cadmium, Copper, Silver, Mercury and many of the transuranic metals.\n\nRadioactive materials produce ionizing radiation which may be very harmful to living organisms. Damage from even a short exposure to radioactivity may have long term adverse health consequences.\n\nExposure may occur from nuclear fallout when nuclear weapons are detonated or nuclear containment systems are compromised. During World War II, the United States Army Air Forces dropped atomic bombs on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, leading to extensive contamination of food, land, and water. In the Soviet Union, the Mayak industrial complex (otherwise known as Chelyabinsk-40 or Chelyabinsk-65) exploded in 1957. The Kyshtym disaster was kept secret for several decades. It is the third most serious nuclear accident ever recorded. At least 22 villages were exposed to radiation and resulted in at least 10,000 displaced persons. In 1992, the former Soviet Union officially acknowledged the accident. Other Soviet republics of Ukraine and Belarus suffered also when a reactor at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant had a meltdown in 1986. To this day, several small towns and the city of Chernobyl remain abandoned and uninhabitable due to fallout.\n\nThe Hanford Site is a decommissioned nuclear production complex that produced plutonium for most of the 60,000 weapons in the U.S. nuclear arsenal. There are environmental concerns about radioactivity released from Hanford.\n\nA number of military accidents involving nuclear weapons have also resulted in radioactive contamination, for example the 1966 Palomares B-52 crash and the 1968 Thule Air Base B-52 crash.\n\n\"CBRN\" is a catch-all acronym for chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear. The term is used to describe a non-conventional terror threat that, if used by a nation, would be considered use of a weapon of mass destruction. This term is used primarily in the United Kingdom. Planning for the possibility of a CBRN event may be appropriate for certain high-risk or high-value facilities and governments. Examples include Saddam Hussein's Halabja poison gas attack, the Sarin gas attack on the Tokyo subway and the preceding test runs in Matsumoto, Japan 100 kilometers outside of Tokyo, and Lord Amherst giving smallpox laden blankets to Native Americans.\nAn aviation incident is an occurrence other than an accident, associated with the operation of an aircraft, which affects or could affect the safety of operations, passengers, or pilots. The category of the vehicle can range from a helicopter, an airliner, or a space shuttle.\n\nThe special hazards of traveling by rail include the possibility of a train crash which can result in substantial loss of life. Incidents involving freight traffic generally pose a greater hazardous risk to the environment. Less common hazards include geophysical hazards such as tsunami such as that which struck in 2004 in Sri Lanka when 1,700 people died in the Sri Lanka tsunami-rail disaster.\n\nSee also the list of train accidents by death toll.\n\nTraffic collisions are the leading cause of death, and road-based pollution creates a substantial health hazard, especially in major conurbations.\n\nSpace travel presents significant hazards, mostly to the direct participants (astronauts or cosmonauts and ground support personnel), but also carry the potential of disaster to the public at large. Accidents related to space travel have killed 22 astronauts and cosmonauts, and a larger number of people on the ground.\n\nAccidents can occur on the ground during launch, preparation, or in flight, due to equipment malfunction or the naturally hostile environment of space itself. An additional risk is posed by (unmanned) low-orbiting satellites whose orbits eventually decay due to friction with the extremely thin atmosphere. If they are large enough, massive pieces traveling at great speed can fall to the Earth before burning up, with the potential to do damage.\n\nOne of the worst human-piloted space accidents involved the Space Shuttle \"Challenger\" which disintegrated in 1986, claiming all seven lives on board. The shuttle disintegrated 73 seconds after taking off from the launch pad in Cape Canaveral, Florida.\n\nAnother example is the Space Shuttle \"Columbia\", which disintegrated during a landing attempt over Texas in 2003, with a loss of all seven astronauts on board. The debris field extended from New Mexico to Mississippi.\n\nShips can sink, capsize or crash in disasters. Perhaps the most infamous sinking was that of the Titanic which hit an iceberg and sank, resulting in one of the worst maritime disasters in history. Other notable incidents include the capsizing of the Costa Concordia, which killed at least 32 people; and is the largest passenger ship to sink, and the sinking of the MV Doña Paz, which claimed the lives of up to 4,375 people in the worst peacetime maritime disaster in history.\n\nEnvironmental hazards are those hazards where the effects are seen in biomes or ecosystems rather than directly on living organisms. Well known examples include oil spills, water pollution, slash and burn de-forestation, air pollution,\n\n"}
{"id": "7634432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7634432", "title": "Berne incident", "text": "Berne incident\n\nThe Berne incident consisted in the brief seizure of the Romanian embassy in Bern, Switzerland, by a group of Romanian émigrés who opposed the communist regime. It occurred between February 14 and February 16, 1955.\n\nThe attack was planned and led by Oliviu Beldeanu, a sculptor born in 1924 in Dej. At the age of 15 he became a member of \"Frunză Verde\" (\"Green Leaf\"), a youth organisation associated with the fascist Iron Guard, and after the end of World War II he joined the anti-communist resistance movement. In 1949, he fled to the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, only to return a few months later, allegedly as an agent of the UDBA. In 1951, Beldeanu arrived in Italy; he later settled in Konstanz, West Germany.\n\nIn 1954, Beldeanu began preparing the assault on the Romanian embassy: he travelled several times to Switzerland, acquired the needed weapons and tools, and held training sessions with the other members of the group (Ion Chirilă, Stan Codrescu, Dumitru Ochiu and Tudor Ciochină).\n\nOn the evening of February 14, 1955, the group drove from Konstanz to Berne, broke into the embassy around midnight and entered the embassy's driver's residence. The members of the group then proceeded to discreetly search for secret documents. \n\nAround 2:00 AM, Aurel Şeţu, the embassy's driver (and possibly a Securitate agent) returned and entered into an altercation with Codrescu and Ochiu, following which Şeţu was shot. Though hurt, the driver managed to leave the annex building, and was later discovered heavily bleeding under a tree. He was then transported to the hospital where he died. After the shooting most of the embassy's staff had fled.\n\nThe Swiss police was notified by the ambassador and surrounded the building, but without intervening, since the ambassador did not allow them to enter the property at first. The group demanded the release from Romanian prisons of several important personalities, such as Dinu Brătianu. On the night of February 15/16, Dumitru Ochiu exited the embassy, carrying with him a number of documents; he was immediately arrested by the Swiss police. The rest of the group surrendered the next day.\n\nThe police returned the stolen documents immediately to the Romanian legation, thereby arising a lot of speculations about their content. The news agency \"Globe Press\" pretended that Aurel Şeţu was the actual head of the Romanian legation and a senior Securitate officer and that the stolen documents were ciphered messages for Moscow. As the police of Bern later found out, this information had in fact been invented by a Czechoslovakian refugee.\n\nAccording to its organizers, the attack's purpose was to attract international attention to the abuses, injustices and human rights violations perpetrated by the communist Romanian government, as well as exposing the espionage activities of the Romanian embassy in Switzerland.\n\nHowever, the Romanian government of the time accused the Iron Guard structure in exile (under the leadership of Horia Sima) and Western intelligence agencies of masterminding a fascist anti-Romanian plot with the complicity of the Swiss authorities.\n\nSome commentators have suggested that the group was indeed acting on behalf of a foreign intelligence service, looking for documents related specifically to covert Romanian agents in the Western program of parachuting agents into areas of the Eastern Bloc.\n\nThe members of the group were tried in Berne. Oliviu Beldeanu was sentenced to four years in prison, Stan Codrescu (who had shot Aurel Şeţu) to three and a half years, Ion Chirilă to three and a half years and Dumitru Ochiu to a year and four months.\n\nIn Romania, protest gatherings were staged in several towns and a large commemorative meeting held in Bucharest on the occasion of Aurel Şeţu's burial.\n\nOliviu Beldeanu was released from prison in 1957, but the communist regime did not intend to leave his action go unpunished. He was lured to West Berlin and abducted by Stasi and Securitate agents, then taken to Bucharest, subjected to a kangaroo trial, and executed on February 18, 1960.\n\n"}
{"id": "31522472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31522472", "title": "Boom Bang-a-Bang: 50 Years of Eurovision", "text": "Boom Bang-a-Bang: 50 Years of Eurovision\n\nBoom-a-Bang: 50 Years of Eurovision is a one-hour documentary that aired on BBC One on 16 May 2006. The programme celebrates 50 years of the Eurovision Song Contest. The programme was presented and narrated by long-serving Eurovision commentator, Terry Wogan.\n\nIt included a guest appearance from the UK representative for the 2006 Eurovision Song Contest Daz Sampson, as well as archive footage from previous UK and other entries from previous song contests.\n\n"}
{"id": "15691452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15691452", "title": "Borderline Theatre Company", "text": "Borderline Theatre Company\n\nBorderline Theatre company is a touring theatre company based in Ayr, Scotland. \n\nIts alumni include the actors Billy Connolly and Robbie Coltrane. Recent successes include the award-winning, critically acclaimed plays The Wall and The Ducky by D C Jackson.\n\n"}
{"id": "1114966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1114966", "title": "British Hill Climb Championship", "text": "British Hill Climb Championship\n\nThe British Hill Climb Championship (BHCC) is the most prestigious Hillclimbing championship in Great Britain. Hillclimbing in the British Isles has a rich history and this event has been held every year since 1947.\n\nAll British Champions have been British. As of the end of the 2016 season, the most successful driver in terms of individual victories is Scott Moran, with 152. Moran and Tony Marsh jointly hold the record for the most championships, with six. Ken Wharton is the only driver to win four consecutive titles.\n\nThe following tracks (listed in alphabetical order) are used in the BHCC. As mentioned below, each day's hillclimbing contains two rounds of the Championship.\n\n\n\nA number of other venues have featured in the championship over the years including Bo'ness, Dyrham Park, Fintray, Great Auclum, Lhergy Frissel, Longleat, Pontypool Park, Rest and Be Thankful, Stapleford Aerodrome, Tholt-y-Will and Westbrook Hay.\n\nA major hillclimb may have an entry of more than 150 drivers, but the event is usually a qualifying round of more than one competition, and some drivers (especially drivers of less powerful cars) will not be entered for the British Championship itself. Those who are, and who record a time in the top twelve of all those eligible, compete in a \"run-off\" at the end of each set of class run (there are two such sets of class runs at each event). In a run-off, drivers tackle the hill in reverse order of their qualifying times, although where two drivers share a car, the slower qualifier competes at the start of the run-off session. The person who sets the fastest time receives 10 British Championship points, the second-fastest driver nine, and so on down to the tenth-placed driver, who gets one. The 11th and 12th-placed drivers, and any who fail to complete the course, receive no points.\n\nAn extra point is given to any driver in the run-off who breaks the outright hill record \"as it stood at the beginning of the day\". There are usually 34 such run-offs (i.e. 17 hillclimbs with two run-offs at each), but drivers can only count their 28 best results towards their final points total. In 2004, Adam Fleetwood achieved the unprecedented feat of winning 28 rounds, and so had to drop all his non-win points. Even so, he won the championship by a huge margin - before taking account of his dropped scores, he had racked up 318 points, with the runner-up, 1997 champion Roger Moran, a massive distance behind on 176 points.\n\nThe first climb of the inaugural series was staged at Bo'ness, near Linlithgow, Scotland on 17 May 1947. It was one of five events in that year's championship, the other climbs being held at Bouley Bay, Craigantlet, Prescott and Shelsley Walsh. All but Bo'ness still host rounds of the BHCC. The inaugural championship, as well as the 1948 title, went to Raymond Mays, who proved he was still the force to be reckoned with that he had been before World War II. Sydney Allard won the title in 1949 in the self-built Steyr-Allard.\n\nAlthough the 1950 championship went to Alfa Romeo driver Dennis Poore, from then on every title of the decade was to be won by a driver who had spent most or all of the year behind the wheel of a Cooper with a JAP engine. Ken Wharton started the trend, and became the only man to win four successive BHCC titles. In the mid-Fifties there were three successive titles for the near-legendary Tony Marsh, a man who would still be competing at the highest level of hillclimbing as the 20th century closed. And finally, another hat-trick of championships went to David Boshier-Jones.\n\nSadly the decade was also touched by tragedy, when Bill Sleeman was killed at Bouley Bay, Jersey in 1955.\n\nThe final round of the decade was held at Stapleford Aerodrome on 11 October 1959, an event won by David Good in a Cooper-J.A.P. 1,100 c.c.\n\nAlthough the 1960s opened as the Fifties had ended, with Boshier-Jones taking the honours in his Cooper-JAP, the decade was to see a marked change in hillclimbing. One notable feature of 1960s climbing was the appearance of four-wheel drive, with several of the decade's championships being won by drivers in such cars, including two for Peter Westbury.\n\nMike Gray became the second driver to be killed at a BHCC round when he lost his life at Barbon in 1964.\n\nThe Seventies saw two notable firsts: Roy Lane's maiden championship in 1975, and the first of 18 titles in the space of 22 years for Pilbeam drivers when Alister Douglas-Osborn took the honours in 1977.\n\nThis decade also saw the first championship to be won by a Gould driver, when Chris Cramer took the title in 1985. However, it was to be the late 1990s before the Pilbeam near-stranglehold on the BHCC would be broken for any length of time.\n\nThe 1990s continued and even intensified Pilbeam's dominance of the sport, with the first eight championships of the decade being won by a driver in one of the marque's cars. By the time Roger Moran clinched the title in 1997, Pilbeam drivers had won 18 of the 22 championships since 1977, a dominance rivalled only by the Cooper years of the 1950s and early 1960s.\n\nHowever, change was afoot, and the 1998 championship went to a Gould driver, David Grace. The future CEO of Rockingham Motor Speedway stamped his authority on the championship with a hat-trick of titles as the 20th century closed. As of 2004, every champion since had been behind the wheel of a Gould.\n\nThe hillclimb world was shocked in 1995 by the death of one of its leading lights, when Mark Colton was killed in practice at Craigantlet. He thus became only the third driver to lose his life in the history of the BHCC.\n\nThe start of the 21st century saw a \"changing of the guard\" in the BHCC, as young drivers in lightweight cars made their presence felt at the highest level. Graeme Wight Jr dominated in 2001, and in June he broke the outright record at Shelsley Walsh that had stood for nine years. Almost a year later he became the first driver to break the 25-second barrier at the track, winning a prize of £1,000.\n\nThe 2001 season was severely disrupted by the foot and mouth crisis that year, which caused the postponement of some rounds of the series, though only one climb - at Barbon - was actually cancelled entirely, and co-operation between event organisers and local landowners meant that spectators continued to be admitted to the meetings, albeit with precautions such as the disinfecting of cars entering the car parks.\n\nA little later in the decade, once Adam Fleetwood had proved that he could translate his exploits in smaller cars to the top class, Wight Jr began to come under intense pressure, and by 2004 Fleetwood usually had the better of their battles. Sadly that season's championship was robbed of a classic battle for the title when Wight Jr pulled out in June to wait for the arrival of a new car - this had still not been driven in anger by the end of the year. However, crowds around the country could console themselves by watching a true master of the hills at work. Fleetwood won all but six of the year's 34 BHCC rounds, breaking hill records for fun - and in turn became the first person to climb Shelsley in under \"24\" seconds.\n\nFleetwood's announcement in April 2005 that other commitments would prevent his defending his title meant once again that the two most successful drivers of the 2000s would not go head-to-head, and the stage seemed set for Wight Jr to regain his crown, although his new V10 Predator proved unreliable, allowing the impressive Martin Groves to open up a lead at the top of the points table; Groves had the championship wrapped up by early August. With Wight Jr still nowhere to be seen, Groves retained the title in 2006, although he had to wait a month longer than in the previous year thanks to a spirited challenge from Scott Moran. Groves again held off Moran's charge in 2007 to complete a hat-trick of titles, but in 2008 Moran took his first championship win, retaining his title in 2009.\n\nMoran has since won a further five titles, and his Gould GR61X (by far the most successful car in the history of the championship, with 157 run-off wins) has won seven at the end of 2016 season; after several seasons in a supercharged Suzuki Hayabusa-engined DJ Firehawk, Alex Summers co-drove the GR61X with Moran and became champion in it at his first attempt.\n\nBetween 1998 and 2016, the only non-Gould driver to win the championship has been Trevor Willis, who did so in 2012 with his OMS 25, a less powerful but lighter car with a V8 engine derived from two Hayabusa units.\n\n"}
{"id": "2440214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2440214", "title": "Chinese intelligence activity abroad", "text": "Chinese intelligence activity abroad\n\nThe government of China is engaged in espionage overseas, thought to be directed primarily through the Ministry of State Security (MSS). It is suspected of employing a variety of tactics including cyber spying to gain access to sensitive information remotely and physical agents (HUMINT). China is believed to be engaged in industrial espionage aimed at gathering information to bolster its economy, as well as monitoring dissidents abroad such as supporters of the Tibetan independence movement and Falun Gong.\n\nIt is believed that Chinese espionage is aimed at the preservation of China's national security through gaining commercial, technological, and military secrets. It is generally believed that Chinese intelligence agencies operate differently from other espionage organizations by employing primarily academics or students who will be in their host country only a short time, rather than spending years cultivating a few high-level sources or double agents. Much information about the Chinese intelligence services comes from defectors, whom the PRC accuses of lying to promote an anti-PRC agenda. One known exception to this rule is the case of Katrina Leung, who was accused of starting an affair with an FBI agent to gain sensitive documents from him. A U.S. judge dismissed all charges against her due to prosecutorial misconduct.\n\nThe United States believes the Chinese military has been developing network technology in recent years in order to perform espionage on other nations. Several cases of computer intrusions suspected of Chinese involvement have been found in various countries including Australia, New Zealand, Canada, France, Germany, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, India and the United States.\n\nIn 2009, Canadian researchers say they have found evidence that Chinese hackers had gained access to computers possessed by government and private organizations in 103 countries, although researchers say there is no conclusive evidence China's government was behind it. Beijing also denied involvement. The researchers said the computers penetrated include those of the Dalai Lama and Tibetan exiles.\n\nIn January 2018, \"Le Monde\" reported that the headquarters of the African Union, which had been constructed by the China State Construction Engineering Corporation, had had its computer systems compromised between 2012 and 2017, with data from AU servers being forwarded to Shanghai. The building's computer system was subsequently removed and the AU refused a Chinese offer to configure the replacement system. \"Le Monde\" alleged that the AU had then covered up the hack to protect Chinese interests in the continent.\n\nChina and the African Union have rejected the allegations. Ethiopian Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn rejected the French media report, saying that he doesn't believe it. Moussa Faki Mahamat, head of the African Union Commission, said the allegations in the Le Monde's report were false. \"These are totally false allegations and I believe that we are completely disregarding them.\"\n\nSince at least April 2017, TEMP.Periscope, an advanced persistent threat based in China, has been hacking Cambodian organizations related to the 2018 general election. Targets included the National Election Commission, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, the Senate of Cambodia, and the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The APT engaged in spear phishing against Monovithya Kem of the Cambodia National Rescue Party, sending messages which impersonated the Cambodian League for the Promotion and Defense of Human Rights.\n\nAccording to Falun Gong media \"The Epoch Times\" and Pan-democracy political groups, China has been sending spies into Hong Kong harassing dissents and Falun Gong practitioners. In 2012, according to Oriental Daily, a Chinese security ministry official has been arrested in Hong Kong for suspicion of acting as a double agent for the United States.\n\nIndia has quietly informed companies to avoid using Chinese-made telecommunications equipment, fearing that it may have spy capabilities embedded within it. Also, India's intelligence service, Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) believes that China is using dozens of study centers that it has set up in Nepal near the Indian border in part for the purposes of spying on India. In August 2011 a Chinese research vessel disguised as a fishing trawler was detected off the coast of Little Andaman, collecting data in a geostrategically sensitive region.\n\nThe \"Luckycat\" hacking campaign that targeted Japan and Tibet also targeted India. A Trojan horse was inserted into a Microsoft Word file ostensibly about India's ballistic missile defense program, allowing for the command and control servers to connect and extract information. The attacks were subsequently traced back to a Chinese graduate student from Sichuan and the Chinese government is suspected of planning the attacks.\n\nAccording to a report by Trend Micro the \"Luckycat\" hacker group is engaged in cyber-espionage on targets in Japan, India and Tibet. During the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami and nuclear meltdowns at Fukushima, the hackers inserted a Trojan virus into PDF attachments to emails being circulated containing information about radiation dosage measurements. Investigation into ownership of the command and control servers by Trend Micro and \"The New York Times\" linked the malware to Gu Kaiyuan, through QQ numbers and the alias \"scuhkr\". Mr. Gu is a former graduate student of the Information Security Institute of Sichuan University in Chengdu and wrote his master's thesis on computer hacking. James A. Lewis of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, believes the attacks were state-sponsored.\n\nFireEye President Travis Reese has stated that the Chinese-sponsored Conference Crew, founded in 2016, has engaged in cyber-espionage against the Philippines, targeting diplomatic and national security information.\n\nHuang Jing (黄靖), an academic at the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy, was expelled from Singapore, reportedly for working as an agent of influence for Chinese intelligence services.\n\nSingHealth medical data was hacked by suspected Chinese hackers around July 2018.\n\nFireEye claims that two hacker operations tied to the Chinese military, dubbed Tonto Team and Stone Panda/APT10, have attempted to hack the South Korean Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other targets related to the deployment of THAAD.\n\nChina is reportedly engaged in economic espionage against South Korean technology companies, including Samsung Electronics and SK Hynix.\n\nIn Sri Lanka, Jayalalithaa Jayaram – head of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam – stated that Chinese laborers working in parts of the country devastated by the Sri Lankan Civil War were infiltrated with Chinese spies on surveillance missions targeted at Tamil Nadu, India.\n\nThe PRC and ROC regularly accuse each other of spying.\n\nPresidential aide Wang Jen-ping was found in 2009 to have sold nearly 100 confidential documents to China since 2007; Military intelligence officer Lo Chi-cheng was found to have been acting as a double agent in 2010 for China since 2007; Maj. Gen. Lo Hsien-che, electronic communications and information bureau chief during the administration of former President Chen Shui-bian, has been suspected of selling military secrets to Mainland China since 2004.\n\nIn 2007 the Ministry of Justice Investigation Bureau stated that 500 gigabyte Maxtor Basics Personal Storage 3200 hard drives produced by Seagate Technology and manufactured in Thailand may have been modified by a Chinese subcontractor and shipped with the Virus.Win32.AutoRun.ah virus. As many as 1,800 drives sold in the Netherlands and Taiwan after August 2007 were reportedly infected with the virus, which scanned for passwords for products such as \"World of Warcraft\" and QQ and uploading them to a website in Beijing.\n\nIn May 2017, Major Wang Hung-ju, a retired military police officer assigned to the National Security Bureau, was indicted on charges of spying for the People's Republic of China.\n\nArmy Major General Hsieh Chia-kang, deputy commander of Matsu Defense Command, has been accused of providing intelligence to China, having been recruited by retired army colonel Hsin Peng-sheng.\n\nZhou Hongxu (周泓旭), a graduate of National Chengchi University's MBA program, has been accused of attempting to recruit an official from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the purposes of providing intelligence to China. Zhou was reportedly instructed by China's Taiwan Affairs Office to enroll in the university in order to make friends and develop a spy ring. Zhou reportedly solicited classified documents, offering trips to Japan and United States dollars in payment.\n\nIn January 2018, it was reported that the Taipei District Prosecutors’ Office is investigating if classified information regarding the Airborne Special Service Company was passed on to Zhou Hongxu (周泓旭), who was already convicted for violating the National Security Act. In March 2018, a retired colonel was charged with breaching the National Security Act by the Kaohsiung District Prosecutors’ Office, which alleged that the colonel shared classified personal information and planned to develop a spy ring in Taiwan. In April 2018, Hung Chin-hsi (洪金錫), a Macau-born businssman, was accused of developing a spy ring in the Ministry of Justice, on behalf of China. Captain Zhen Xiaojiang (鎮小江) was convicted in 2015 of recruiting Taiwanese military officers as part of a spy ring on behalf of China, including Army Major-General Hsu Nai-chuan (許乃權). Zhen sent intelligence regarding Taiwan's radar installations and Dassault Mirage 2000 fighters to China. He was deported to Hong Kong in July 2018.\n\n\"The Wall Street Journal\" reported that Taiwan has been \"ground zero\" for economic espionage related to integrated circuit fabrication. In a review of ten prosecutions for technology-related thefts in Taiwan, \"WSJ\" found that nine of those cases involved technology transfer to China. An employee of Nanya Technology Corp. allegedly stole designs for dynamic random-access memory (DRAM) on behalf of Tsinghua Holdings. Hsu Chih-Peng, an engineer for Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., allegedly stole microchip designs after being solicited by the Chinese government-owned Shanghai Huali Microelectronics Coration.\n\nAccording to Taiwanese prosecutors, engineer Wang Yongming (on behalf of Fujian Jinhua Integrated Circuit) engaged in espionage to steal Micron Technology microchip designs via the Taiwanese company UMC. Micron alleges that UMC hired Micron's engineers, asking them to steal files on advanced memory chips. The files Wang allegedly stole were said to be production secrets, including testing procedures related to metallization, and the DR25nmS design protocol.\n\nAccording to the security research firm FireEye, Chinese hackers are suspected of targeting Vietnamese government and corporate targets. The hacking group, designated Conimes, phished the targets and delivered malware via a pre-2012 version of Microsoft Word.\n\nBelgian Justice Minister Jo Vandeurzen accused the Chinese government of electronic espionage against the government of Belgium, while Foreign Minister Karel De Gucht informed the Belgian Federal Parliament that his ministry was hacked by Chinese agents. The espionage is possibly linked to Belgium hosting the headquarters of NATO and the European Union.\n\nThe Katholieke Universiteit Leuven in Leuven was also believed to be the center for a group of Chinese students in Europe conducting industrial espionage, operating under a front organization called the Chinese Students' and Scholars' Association of Leuven. In 2005 a leading figure of the Association defected to Belgium, providing information to the Sûreté de l’Etat on hundreds of spies engaged in economic espionage across Europe. The group had no obvious links to Chinese diplomats and was focused on getting moles into laboratories and universities in the Netherlands, Britain, Germany, France and Belgium. The \"People's Daily\", an organ of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, dismissed the reports as fabrications triggered by fears of China's economic development.\n\nAccording to the security research firm F5, Chinese hackers launched widespread attacks against Finnish Internet of things computers prior to the 2018 Russia–United States summit in Helsinki.\n\nThere have been several incidents of suspected Chinese spies in France. This includes Shi Pei Pu, a Chinese opera singer from Beijing who convinced a French diplomat that he was a woman, and spied on France.\n\nFrench media also portrayed Li Li Whuang (), a 22-year-old Chinese intern at car parts maker Valeo, as an industrial spy. Both the French prosecution and Valeo refuted media claims of spying and the case was later considered to be a psychosis. Li Li was ultimately convicted of violating the confidentiality clause of her contract and served two months in prison, but was allowed to continue her doctoral studies at the University of Technology of Compiègne.\n\nTwo French intelligence operatives, identified only as Henri M and Pierre-Marie H, were accused of communicating classified information to China. Henri M was reportedly the Beijing station chief for the Directorate-General for External Security.\n\nAccording to reporting by \"Le Figaro\", the General Directorate for Internal Security and Directorate-General for External Security believe that Chinese spies have used LinkedIn to target thousands of business and government officials as potential sources of information.\n\nAccording to reporting in \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\", China has been soliciting information from members of the Bundestag, including offering €30,000 for insider information from one parliamentarian.\n\nBetween August and September 2007 Chinese hackers were suspected of using Trojan horse spyware on various government computers, including those of the Chancellory, the Ministry of Economics and Technology, and the Ministry of Education and Research. Germans officials believe Trojan viruses were inserted in Microsoft Word and PowerPoint files, and approximately 160 gigabytes of data were siphoned to Canton, Lanzhou and Beijing via South Korea, on instructions from the People's Liberation Army.\n\nThe Federal Ministry of the Interior estimates that Chinese economic espionage could be costing Germany between 20 and 50 billions euros annually. Spies are reportedly targeting mid- and small-scale companies that do not have as strong security regimens as larger corporations. Berthold Stoppelkamp, head of the Working Group for Economic Security (ASW), stated that German companies had a poor security culture making espionage easier, exacerbated by the absence of a \"strong, centralized\" police command. Walter Opfermann, a counter-intelligence expert for the state of Baden-Württemberg, claimed that China is using extremely sophisticated electronic attacks capable of endangering portions of critical German infrastructure, having gathered sensitive information through techniques such as phone hacking and Trojan emails. In November 2018, German prosecutors in Cologne charged a former employee of Lanxess for engaging in industrial espionage on behalf of a Chinese copycat company.\n\nGermany suspects China of spying both on German corporations and on Uyghur expatriates living in the country. In 2011, a 64-year-old German man was charged with spying on Uighurs in Munich between April 2008 and October 2009. Munich is a center for expatriate Uyghurs, and in November 2009 members of the Federal Criminal Police Office arrested four Chinese nationals on charges of spying on Uyghurs. In 2007 Chinese diplomat Ji Wumin left Germany after being observed meeting with individuals engaged in surveillance of Munich Uyghurs, and German investigators suspect China is coordinating espionage activities out of its in the Neuhausen district.\n\nIn 2017, the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution (BfV) published information alleging that Chinese intelligence services had created fake social media profiles on sites such as LinkedIn, using them to gather information on German politicians and government officials. The Verfassungsschutz had previously warned that Chinese intelligence officers are making use of social networking sites such as LinkedIn and XING to recruit informants. Lu Kang of the Ministry of Foreign Affais denied the allegations.\n\nIn May 2009, Stefan Zielonka, a Polish cipher officer working for the Military Information Services, disappeared. He is suspected of providing the Chinese or Russian governments with Polish and NATO cryptography information. Zielonka's body was later retrieved from the Vistula river, although investigators remain uncertain as to whether Zielonka was attempting to defect or committed suicide, or whether the body retrieved actually was Zielonka's.\n\nIn April 2018, a former member of the Parliament of Poland for Samoobrona, identified as Mateusz P., was charged with espionage on behalf of Russia and China.\n\nIn December 2007, Igor Reshetin, the Chief Executive of Tsniimash-Export, and three researchers were sentenced to prison for passing on dual-purpose technology to the Chinese. Analysts speculated that the leaked technology could help China develop improved missiles and accelerate the Chinese space program. In September 2010, the Russian Federal Security Service detained two scientists working at the Baltic State Technical University in Saint Petersburg. The two are charged with passing on classified information to China, possibly through the Harbin Engineering University.\n\nAccording to reports in \"Neue Zürcher Zeitung\", Chinese intelligence services have attempted to recruit Swiss university staff and researchers using LinkedIn.\n\nBabur Maihesuti, a Chinese Uighur who became a Swedish citizen was arrested for spying on the Uighur refugee communities in Sweden, Norway, Germany and the United States, and ultimately sentenced for illegal espionage activity. In April 2018 Sweden charged Dorjee Gyantsan, a 49-year old Tibetan refugee, with spying on Tibetan dissidents and refugees in Sweden between July 2015 and February 2017. Gyantsan is accused of collecting information on Tibetan refugees in Sweden, and then pass that information on to Chinese officials in Finland and Poland. Gyantsan was arrested upon returning from Warsaw, carrying $6,000 in cash.\n\nUK officials, including experts at its MI5 intelligence agency, are fearful that China could shut down businesses in the nation with Chinese cyber attacks and spy equipment embedded in computer and telecommunications equipment. MI5 has reportedly monitored Chinese espionage against Rio Tinto Group computers.\n\nNewspapers have estimated that China may have up to 1,000 spies in Canada. The head of the Canadian Security Intelligence Service Richard Fadden in a television interview was assumed to have implied that various Canadian politicians at provincial and municipal levels had ties to Chinese intelligence. In an interview, he claimed that some politicians were under the influence of a foreign government, but he withdrew the statement a few days later. It was assumed by Chinese groups in Canada, and others, that he was referring to China because in the same interview he stressed the high level of Chinese spying in Canada, however Fadden did not say specifically which country these politicians were under the influence of. His statement was withdrawn a few days later.\n\nIn 2005, Canadian businessman Joe Wang stated his belief that threatening letters he received after broadcasting programs about alleged human rights abuses in China were from the Chinese consulate; one of the envelopes contained boric acid.\n\nIn 2012 Mark Bourrie, an Ottawa-based freelance journalist, stated that the State Council-run Xinhua News Agency asked him to collect information on the Dalai Lama through their Ottawa bureau chief, Dacheng Zhang, by exploiting his journalistic access to the Parliament of Canada. Bourrie stated that he was asked to write for Xinhua in 2009 and sought advice from the Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS), but was ignored. Bourrie was asked to collect information on the Sixth World Parliamentarians' Convention on Tibet at the Ottawa Convention Centre, although Xinhua had no intention of writing a story on the proceedings. Bourrie stated that at that point \"We were there under false pretenses, pretending to be journalists but acting as government agents.\" Xinhua collects extensive information on Tibetan and Falun Gong dissidents in Canada, and is accused of being engaged in espionage by Chinese defector Chen Yonglin and Reporters Without Borders.\n\nOn December 1, 2013, Lloyd's Register employee Qing Quentin Huang was arrested and charged with violating the \"Security of Information Act\", for allegedly communicating classified information on the federal shipbuilding strategy to China. Huang reportedly contacted the Chinese Embassy in Ottawa in an attempt to pass on secrets, which was detected by the Canadian Security Intelligence Service, who in turn alerted the Royal Canadian Mounted Police.\n\nBetween 2006 and 2010 Yang Wang, a Chinese immigrant to Canada, admitted to providing intelligence to the Ministry of State Security, including on the activities of Falun Gong.\n\nAround June 2014, the National Research Council was reportedly penetrated by Chinese state-sponsored hackers.\n\nChina is suspected of having a long history of espionage in the United States against military and industrial secrets, often resorting to direct espionage, exploitation of commercial entities, and a network of scientific, academic, and business contacts. Several U.S. citizens have been convicted for spying for China. Naturalized citizen Dongfan Chung, an engineer working with Boeing, was the first person convicted under the Economic Espionage Act of 1996. Chung is suspected of having passed on classified information on designs including the Delta IV rocket, F-15 Eagle, B-52 Stratofortress and the CH-46 and CH-47 helicopters.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Justice investigation into the fund-raising activities had uncovered evidence that Chinese agents sought to direct contributions from foreign sources to the Democratic National Committee (DNC) before the 1996 presidential campaign. The Chinese embassy in Washington, D.C. was used for coordinating contributions to the DNC.\n\nChina's espionage and cyber attacks against the US government and business organizations are a major concern, according to the seventh annual report (issued September 2009) to the US Congress of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission. \"Although attribution is a problem in cyber attacks, the scale and coordination of the attacks strongly indicates Chinese state involvement,\" said commission vice chairman Larry Wortzel. \"In addition to harming U.S. interests, Chinese human and cyber espionage activities provide China with a method for leaping forward in economic, technological, and military development.\" The report cited that the number of cyber attacks from China against the US Department of Defense computer systems had grown from 43,880 in 2007 to 54,640 in 2008, a nearly 20 percent increase. Reuters reported that the Commission found that the Chinese government has placed many of its computer network responsibilities under the direction of the People's Liberation Army, and was using the data mostly for military purposes. In response, China slammed the report as \"full of prejudice,\" and warning it could damage China-US relations. \"We advise this so-called commission not to always view China through tinted glasses,\" Foreign Ministry spokesman Qin Gang said.\n\nIn 2008 the Chinese government was accused of secretly copying information from the laptop of Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez during a trade mission to Beijing in order to gain information on American corporations. The allegations were subsequently dismissed by Qin Gang, a spokesman for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China.\n\nIn November 2005 the United States arrested four people in Los Angeles on suspicion of being involved in a Chinese spy ring.\n\nTaiwanese-American scientist Wen Ho Lee (born in Nantou, Taiwan 21 December 1939) was accused and investigated on the grounds of espionage in 1999 but was acquitted of all charges except for mishandling classified data.\n\nIn response to these and other reports of cyberattacks by China against the United States, Amitai Etzioni of the Institute for Communitarian Policy Studies has suggested that the United States and China should agree to a policy of mutually assured restraint with respect to cyberspace. This would involve allowing both states to take the measures they deem necessary for their self-defense while simultaneously agreeing to refrain from taking offensive steps; it would also entail vetting these commitments.\n\nIn June 2015, the United States Office of Personnel Management (OPM) announced that it had been the target of a data breach targeting the records of as many as four million people. Later, FBI Director James Comey put the number at 18 million. The \"Washington Post\" has reported that the attack originated in China, citing unnamed government officials. James Comey said: \"It is a very big deal from a national security perspective and from a counterintelligence perspective. It's a treasure trove of information about everybody who has worked for, tried to work for, or works for the United States government.\"\n\nDefence Secretary Dennis Richardson has stated that China is engaged in extensive espionage against Australia, and included surveillance of Chinese Australian communities. Australia believes that the Chinese government have been spying on Australian businesses. A male Chinese student from Fujian was granted a protection visa by the Refugee Review Tribunal of Australia after revealing that he had been instructed to spy on Australian targets in exchange for an overseas scholarship, reporting to the Ministry of State Security. Reported targets included Chinese students with anti-Communist sentiments and Falun Gong practitioners.\n\nNicola Roxon, the Attorney-General of Australia, blocked the Shenzhen-based corporation Huawei from seeking a supply contract for the National Broadband Network, on the advice of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. The Australian government feared Huawei would provide backdoor access for Chinese cyber espionage.\n\nThe Chinese government is suspected of orchestrating an attack on the email network used by the Parliament of Australia, allowing unauthorized access to thousands of emails and compromising the computers of several senior Australian politicians including Prime Minister Julia Gillard, Foreign Minister Kevin Rudd, and Minister of Defense Stephen Smith.\n\nSheri Yan and Roger Uren were investigated by ASIO on suspicion of spying for China. Oren, former Assistant Secretary responsible for the Asia section of the Office of National Assessments, was found to have removed documents pertaining to Chinese intelligence operations in Australia, and kept them in his apartment. Yan was suspected of undertaking influence operations on behalf of the Chinese Communist Party, and introducing Colonel Liu Chaoying, a military intelligence officer, to Australian contacts.\n\nHackers either working for or on behalf of the government of China are suspected as being responsible for a cyber-espionage attack against an Australian defense company. Designated APT Alf by the Australian Signals Directorate, the hackers stole approximately 30 gigabytes of data on projects including the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, the P-8 Poseidon, the C-130 Hercules and the Joint Direct Attack Munition. APT Alf used a remote access tool dubbed \"China Chopper\".\n\nIn 2017, Chinese hackers infiltrated the computers of Australian National University, potentially compromising national security research conducted at the university. In 2015, Chinese hackers infiltrated the Bureau of Meteorology.\n\nJian Yang, a member of the New Zealand House of Representatives, was investigated by the New Zealand Security Intelligence Service as a possibly spy due to his links to Chinese military and intelligence schools. Yang reportedly failed to declare that he had taught at the Air Force Engineering University or the Luoyang People's Liberation Army University of Foreign Languages, which are commonly used as training grounds for Chinese intelligence officers. Yang has denied the allegations that he is a spy.\n\nExperts believe that China has recently increased its spy capabilities in South America, perhaps with help from the Cuban government.\n\nThe computer security firm ESET reported that tens of thousands of blueprints were stolen from Peruvian corporations through malware, which were traced to Chinese e-mail accounts. This was done through an AutoCAD worm called ACAD/Medre.A, written in AutoLISP, which located AutoCAD files, at which point they were sent to QQ and 163.com email accounts in China. ESET researcher Righard Zwienenberg claimed this was Chinese industrial espionage. The virus was mostly localized to Peru but spread to a few neighboring countries before being contained.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4832436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4832436", "title": "Comprehensive emergency management", "text": "Comprehensive emergency management\n\nComprehensive emergency management, as defined in various laws throughout the United States, is the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency functions, other than functions for which the military forces are primarily responsible, to mitigate, prepare for, respond to, and recover from emergencies and disasters, and to aid victims suffering from injury or damage, resulting from disasters caused by all hazards, whether natural, technological, or human caused, and to provide support for search and rescue operations for persons and property in distress.\n\nComprehensive emergency management is the philosophy that gave birth to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the eventual decline of the term civil defense in the United States. Under Comprehensive Emergency Management, attention is given to the full range of emergencies from small weather incidents to the \"ultimate emergency\" of war. Its \"all-hazards\" philosophy stands in contrast to previous state and federal emergency management that focused solely on a massive nuclear war with the Soviet Union.\n\nFor any local or state jurisdiction, Comprehensive Emergency Management involves the creation of an emergency management plan, typically an \"Emergency Operations Plan\" that provides for the activation of an Incident Command System as a flexible central command structure for in-coming and committed resources that required to deal with all aspects of the incident as an emergency situation. Other command-level constructs include multiagency coordination and public information systems; overall, the federal command construct for Comprehensive Emergency Management is the National Incident Management System (NIMS).\n\n"}
{"id": "35819355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35819355", "title": "Conference on Computer Communications", "text": "Conference on Computer Communications\n\nThe IEEE Conference on Computer Communications (INFOCOM) addresses key topics and issues related to computer communications, with emphasis on traffic management and protocols for both wired and wireless networks.\n\nThe first INFOCOM conference took place in the United States in Las Vegas, Nevada, in 1982. Since then it was held in many locations around the world, including China, Japan, Israel, Italy, Spain, Brazil, as well as many other regions of the United States.\n\nHttujttujg\n\n"}
{"id": "12476720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12476720", "title": "Cyprus in the Eurovision Song Contest 2002", "text": "Cyprus in the Eurovision Song Contest 2002\n\nCyprus was represented by the group One with the song \"Gimme\". The group was selected internally, so a Cypriot National Final was not held. At the Eurovision Song Contest, the group had a solid result and they qualified Cyprus for the Eurovision Song Contest 2003.\n\nOn the night of the final Cyprus performed 1st in the running order, preceding the United Kingdom. At the close of the voting \"Gimme\" had received 85 points from 14 countries (the highest being 12 from Greece and Malta), placing Cyprus 6th of the 24 entries. The 12 points from Cyprus were awarded to Greece.\n"}
{"id": "1374342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1374342", "title": "Dance Umbrella", "text": "Dance Umbrella\n\nDance Umbrella is an annual festival of modern and contemporary dance, held in London every October.\n\nFirst held in 1978, companies such as London Contemporary Dance Theatre, Merce Cunningham Dance Company, Siobhan Davies Dance Company, Shen Wei Dance Arts perform at venues across London including the Queen Elizabeth Hall, The Place, Battersea Arts Centre and the Barbican Theatre.\n\n"}
{"id": "13425128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13425128", "title": "Duane W. Martin", "text": "Duane W. Martin\n\nDuane Whitney Martin (January 2, 1940 – July 3, 1966) was an American Air Force officer and prisoner of war during the Vietnam War.\n\nMartin was assigned to Detachment 1 38th Aerospace Rescue and Recovery Squadron (38th ARRS), based at Nakhon Phanom Royal Thai Air Force Base, Thailand. On September 20, 1965, Captain Thomas J. Curtis, Martin, Sergeant William A. Robinson crew chief, and Pararescue Specialist (PJ) Arthur Black took off in their Kaman HH-43 Huskie BuNo 62-4510, callsign \"Dutchy 41\" on a combat search and rescue (CSAR) mission for \"Essex 04\", an F-105D piloted by Capt Willis E. Forby, over North Vietnam. The HH-43 was hit by ground fire and crashed in the jungle.\n\nCurtis, Robinson, and Black were all captured by the North Vietnamese Army and taken to a POW camp in North Vietnam. They were later released during Operation Homecoming. Martin, on the other hand was captured by the Pathet Lao and taken to a POW camp in Laos. There, he joined fellow prisoners Eugene DeBruin (American), Phisit Intharathat, Prasit Promsuwan, Prasit Dhanee (all Thai), and Y.C. To (Chinese). They were joined in February 1966 by Dieter Dengler.\n\nOn June 29, 1966, while the guards were eating, the group slipped out of their hand and foot restraints and grabbed the guard's unattended weapons. The Pathet Lao guards spotted some of the other prisoners trying to escape. Dieter fired at a machete wielding guard and Phisit Intharathat killed the other guards. Phisit, in his own account, says he killed one guard as he reached for his rifle and says three in total were killed and the rest ran away. The seven prisoners split into three groups: Phisit, and the other Thai prisoners; DeBruin stayed with To, who had been too ill to continue with the escape; Dengler and Martin headed for the Mekong River to escape to Thailand.\n\nSeveral days after the escape, Martin and Dengler were hiding out near an Akha village. Martin had a bout with malaria and was severely weakened. He was further demoralized when an attempt to signal a C-130 flareship that came over them produced no results. He told Dengler that he was going to die. Later that day he told Dengler that he was going to try to steal some food from the village. Dengler told him it would be suicide but accompanied him on the venture. As they neared the village, they encountered a boy playing with a dog. The boy alerted the village of their presence and a villager came running toward them with a machete. Martin knelt down on the trail with his hands clasped before him in supplication, but the man swung at Martin, first hitting him in the leg. His second swing struck Martin in the back of the neck, killing him. Dengler managed to escape back into the jungle and was rescued several weeks later. Other than Dengler, Phisit Intharathat was the only known survivor. The rest of the prisoners are still unaccounted for.\n\nIn the 2007 film \"Rescue Dawn\", which told the story from Dengler's point of view, Martin was portrayed by actor Steve Zahn.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23635076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23635076", "title": "FIA–FOTA dispute", "text": "FIA–FOTA dispute\n\nThe FIA–FOTA dispute was a series of ongoing political clashes between the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA) and Formula One Teams Association (FOTA) over proposed changes to the rules and regulations for the 2010 Formula One season. The debate began over the introduction of a budget cap and culminated on the eve of the 2009 British Grand Prix with the FOTA teams announcing their intention to form their own rival breakaway series. From that point onwards, the dispute was eased to the point at which a new Concorde Agreement was signed in August 2009.\n\nThe origins of the dispute may be traced as far back as the middle of 2008 when regulations that would see the single biggest overhaul in the sport's sixty-year history were approved for the 2009 season. Early in 2009, FIA President Max Mosley put forth a proposal for 2010 intended to secure the sport's future in the face of the ongoing economic situation. The proposal included an optional budget cap of €30 million, with greater technical and design freedoms allowed to teams who nominated to use it. This was a point of contention among the teams, who objected to what was essentially two different sets of rules within the championship.\n\nIn response to this, Ferrari filed an injunction with a French court in Paris in an attempt to stop the proposed regulations from being implemented. The courts ruled that Ferrari's objections were baseless; given its history and close association with the sport, the team had been awarded a technical veto a decade beforehand that would have allowed them to prevent any regulation changes they disagreed with, but the court ruled that as Ferrari had not used the veto at the previous meeting of the FIA World Motor Sport Council, they did not have grounds for a legal challenge.\n\nSeven of the FOTA teams – Ferrari, BMW Sauber, Toyota, Renault, Brawn GP, Red Bull and Toro Rosso announced their intentions to withdraw from the 2010 championship by virtue of not submitting entries. At the time, Bernie Ecclestone believed a compromise with the teams may be possible, but on May 15, the FIA failed to reach a settlement with the teams.\n\nThe ten FOTA teams met on the weekend of the Monaco Grand Prix, where they unanimously decided to withdraw by the end of the 2009 season unless the budget cap rules were changed, citing their opposition to the \"two-tier\" system and the need for continuity within the rules from one season to the next as their reasons. However, Williams submitted an unconditional entry to the FIA less than three days later, claiming that they existed solely for the purposes of racing and that withdrawing was against their purpose as a racing team. They were subsequently suspended from FOTA while negotiations continued. Force India submitted an unconditional entry of its own on June 5. They, too, were suspended from FOTA for their actions. All of the remaining FOTA teams eventually submitted conditional entries for the 2010 season.\n\nConcurrently to this, the FIA intended to open the 2010 grid up to three new teams, and received entries from fifteen interested parties, including Prodrive, Lola, USF1 and Brabham. The 2010 entry list was published on June 12, and included new teams Campos Grand Prix, Manor Grand Prix and USF1. The FIA also claimed that Ferrari, Red Bull and Toro Rosso were contractually bound to compete until 2012 and so included them on the entry list, and gave remaining teams Brawn, McLaren-Mercedes, Renault and Toyota one week to remove the conditions attached to their entries. As many as four provisional teams were said to be in negotiations with the FIA in the event of one or more FOTA teams withdrawing for 2010; whether over the budget cap, a downturn in their road car division or other extenuating circumstances, Renault were reported to have informed suppliers of a potential withdrawal at the end of the season.\n\nOn June 16, the FIA announced its intentions to continue ahead with the budget cap, now raised to €45 million after talks with FOTA once again failed to find a resolution. Claiming that a solution had been put forth a week previously, the FIA accused factions within FOTA of sabotaging the negotiations, and further claimed that the organisation was attempting to gain control over the governance and commercial rights to the sport, a practice it declared unacceptable.\n\nIn the week preceding the British Grand Prix, the eight remaining FOTA teams wrote to the FIA, calling for an urgent compromise to the situation and requesting an extension to the deadline in order to negotiate a new Concorde Agreement. The letter made it clear that the FOTA teams were willing to commit until 2012 and supply new teams with technical knowledge and advice. The FIA replied within two hours, indicating that it was willing to deal with FOTA, but stated that the June 19 deadline would stand owing to obligations to the potential new teams and the inability to agree on a new Concorde Agreement in such a short period of time. Mosley's proposal would see the introduction of a budget cap, engine and gearbox rules remaining fixed and the allowance of tyre warmers which were previously expected to be banned for 2010. In addition, Mosley stated a willingness to review the FIA's International Court of Appeal and abandon a controversial appendix to the 2010 rules that would give the FIA the unconditional authority to set rules.\n\nHowever, after a meeting at Renault's base of operations in Enstone, the eight FOTA teams announced their intentions to press ahead with a breakaway series, similar to the divisions in American open-wheel racing leagues between USAC and CART in 1979 (similar in that most \"name\" teams and drivers left for the new championship), or CART and the IRL in 1996. After threatening legal action, the FIA renounced its position, offering to talk with the teams. FOTA, however, disagreed, claiming that the decision had already been made and that they would not be changing their minds, though Red Bull's Christian Horner stated that he felt it was foolish to commit to everything too soon. Commercial rights holder Bernie Ecclestone later vowed to ensure the future of the sport, claiming that the ongoing issues between the FIA and FOTA amounted to \"basically, nothing\".\n\nThe conflict came to an apparent head on June 24 at the meeting of the World Motorsport Council in Paris, with FOTA agreeing to remain within the championship and FIA President Max Mosley agreeing not to stand for re-election in October. However, the resolution was thrown into potential jeopardy just twenty-four hours later, with Mosley demanding FOTA in general and Luca di Montezemolo in particular apologise for misleading the media, suggesting Mosley to be a 'dictator' and that he would have no involvement in Formula One until he stepped down as President, no involvement in the FIA afterwards and that he was forced out of office.\n\nOn 8 July, the FOTA group of teams walked out of a meeting with the FIA about future rules.\nFOTA were informed that they were not entered for the 2010 season and could therefore have no input on regulatory discussions. It was later announced that plans for a breakaway series were still being pursued. However, on the weekend of the German Grand Prix, FOTA teams expressed confidence in ending the ongoing debate, stating their intentions to negotiate the terms of a new Concorde Agreement directly with CVC, the company that controls the commercial rights to the sport, with a resolution possibly being found in time for the Hungarian Grand Prix. Later that same day, Bernie Ecclestone announced that he would be involved in the process and vowed to have the sport's future secured with a new Concorde Agreement signed within forty-eight hours, ending the breakaway threat, and on July 15, it was confirmed that Max Mosley would step down from the FIA Presidency.\n\nOn July 6, an unnamed team made accusations against the FIA that new teams had been selected on the basis that they had no association with the current manufacturers. On July 12, unsuccessful applicants N.Technology filed a legal challenge against the FIA in Paris, claiming they had been informed that the only way to receive an entry for 2010 was to nominate the use of a Cosworth spec-engine when the team felt it stood a \"real chance\" of securing a deal with a current engine supplier. The case was heard on October 13, with the decision released on November 10, the French courts rejecting N.Technology's claims.\n\nOn the weekend of the 2009 Hungarian Grand Prix, the thirteen teams met with commercial rights holder CVC to discuss a new Concorde Agreement which would guarantee the sport's future until 2012. The FIA announced that it was willing to sign the agreement provided that all thirteen teams could agree to cost-cutting measures, but two teams – Williams and Manor – had raised late objections to the proposal. Proposed cost-cutting regulations include homologation of front and rear wings, a limit on the number of upgrades a team can introduce over the course of a season, a continuation of the in-season testing ban introduced in 2009, restrictions on the number of personnel able to attend a race, and the teams agreeing to completely close down their factories during the summer break.\n\nOn 29 July 2009 BMW Sauber announced they were withdrawing from Formula One at the end of the 2009 season. They cited \"current developments in motor sport\" as the reason for their decision\n. Three days later on August 1, it was announced that the FIA had signed the Concorde Agreement, thus bringing an end to the dispute. The new Concorde Agreement is said to return to the system used in 1998, restoring voting rights to the teams and the establishment of working groups and commissions to make decisions. Included in the document is a clause allowing BMW Sauber an additional week to sign up in the event that they accept a rescue package to keep them in the sport.\n\nFollowing N.Technology's lawsuit against the FIA, a complaint was made to the European Commission by Zoran Stefanovic, an aspiring team principal supporting N.Technology's claims that the FIA had required new teams to nominate a Cosworth engine if they wanted to join the 2010 grid. Stefanovic had intended to field a team to be known as Stefan Grand Prix and that he had explored the possibility of acquiring engines from a current manufacturer. His complaint to the European Commission claimed that the FIA demonstrated bias in the selection process and was in violation of anti-competition laws, and he requested that the selection process be carried out again.\n\nStefanovic had attempted to enter Formula One on two previous occasions, including an attempt to purchase the remains of Lola's disastrous 1997 attempt. He claimed that the FIA had not simply shown bias against non-Cosworth teams, but also against teams that would be classified as manufacturers, citing that new teams Manor, Campos and USF1 were forced to outsource the design of their chassis to other firms and design studios whereas Stefan Grand Prix had the support of Serbian aircraft manufacturer AMCO, and thus could build their own cars independently. This bias, he claimed, was supported by Prodrive's failure to make the grid; like Stefan, Prodrive would have the facilities to build their own chassis. Stefanovic, however, had the support of Mike Coughlan, the disgraced McLaren engineer.\n\nDespite Stefanovic's planned action against, he announced his intentions to field a team in time for the season-opening race in Bahrain and compete despite not having a grid position in a move similar to the stillborn Phoenix Finance team and their failed attempt to purchase a grid position in 2002. Stefanovic cited the FIA granting a precedented fourteenth grid position to Peter Sauber's Qadbak Investments team as his inspiration, claiming that in the event that any one of the 2010 teams withdrew, the FIA may grant another special entry to Stefan Grand Prix. This was at odds with the FIA's assertion that in the event that a team were to withdraw, special provisions would not be issued.\n\n"}
{"id": "18786505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18786505", "title": "Festival of Pacific Arts", "text": "Festival of Pacific Arts\n\nThe Festival of Pacific Arts, Pacific Arts Festival, or FESTPAC is a traveling festival hosted every four years by a different country in Oceania (). It was conceived by the Pacific Community (former \"Secretariat of the Pacific Community\") as a means to stem erosion of traditional cultural practices by sharing and exchanging culture at each festival. The major theme of the festival is traditional song and dance. The 2008 Festival of Pacific Arts was hosted by American Samoa from 20 July to 2 August 2008; it was the 10th Festival of Pacific Arts.\n\nThe Pacific Cultural Council (former \"\"Pacific Arts Council\" or \"Council of Pacific Arts\",\" originally \"South Pacific Arts Festival Council\") selects the host country and recognizes that each participating country desires the opportunity to showcase its unique indigenous culture by hosting the festival. Host selection is based on principles of equity and preference is given to countries which have not yet hosted. The festival host country pays participants' costs of local travel, accommodation, meals, and other forms of hospitality. Entry to all artistic events is free to the public thereby maximizing cultural outreach and inclusion.\n\nBy its vastness, the Pacific Ocean inhibits social and cultural interchange between the inhabitants of its mostly island countries. The festival, not a competition but a cultural exchange, reunites people and reinforces regional identity and mutual appreciation of Pacific-wide culture. Participating countries select artist-delegates to represent the nation at this crossroads of cultures, considered a great honour.\n\nAbout 2,000 artists attended the 2008 Festival of Pacific Arts from these participating countries: American Samoa, Australia, Cook Islands, Easter Island, Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, French Polynesia, Guam, Hawaii, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Nauru, New Caledonia, New Zealand, Niue, Norfolk Island, Northern Mariana Islands, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Pitcairn Islands, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tokelau, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, and Wallis and Futuna. Taiwan was allowed to send a delegation of 80 performers and artists, most of whom were Taiwanese aborigines, to the Festival of Pacific Arts for the first time in 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22677022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22677022", "title": "Folly Theater", "text": "Folly Theater\n\nThe Standard Theatre, now known as the Folly Theater and also known as the Century Theater and Shubert's Missouri, is a former vaudeville hall in downtown Kansas City, Missouri. Built in 1900, it was designed by Kansas City architect Louis S. Curtiss. The theater was associated with the adjoining Edward Hotel (known later as the Hotel Missouri), which was also designed by Curtiss; the hotel was demolished in 1965. \n\nThe Standard Theatre opened with 2,400 seats on September 23, 1900, featuring burlesque and vaudeville. It was built by Colonel Edward Butler of St. Louis, Missouri, at a cost of $250,000, for his son to present shows on the Empire vaudeville circuit. In 1901, a fire at the nearby Coates Opera House caused opera and comic opera performances to be moved to the Standard, featuring such performers as Sarah Bernhardt, Richard Mansfield, and Maude Adams. The theater's name changed to the \"Century\" in 1902. The Century featured acts from the Empire burlesque circuit, including Al Jolson, Fannie Brice, and Eddie Foy. In addition to theater acts, the Century featured prizefighting and wrestling, with appearances by Jack Johnson and Jack Dempsey. Johnson stayed in the manager's apartment, as hotels refused to rent him a room.\n\nThe Shubert brothers bought the Century in 1923 and renamed it \"Shubert's Missouri\" after extensive renovations by Shubert architect Herbert J. Krapp. The Shuberts booked dramatic productions including Shakespeare and O'Neill plays. The Marx Brothers performed \"I'll Say She Is\" for three weeks in 1923-24, the long run convincing the Shuberts to continue operating the theater. After 1928, business began falling off and the theater was used for touring shows on an intermittent basis until it closed in 1932. After a tax sale it eventually reopened in 1941 as \"The Folly\", featuring striptease. Performers included Gypsy Rose Lee and Tempest Storm, and before the Folly closed in January 1974, Chesty Gabor. The theater began showing \"adult\" movies in 1969, apparently prompting an unknown person to plant a dynamite stick in a drainpipe on December 29, 1969.\n\nIn 1974 the theater's then owners, Annbar Associates and Elk Realty of New York announced that if a new buyer could not be identified by the end of the year, the theater would be demolished to make way for a parking lot. A group of local historic preservation activists, including Joan Dillon and William N. Deramus III, formed a nonprofit, the Performing Arts Foundation, to raise the money to purchase and restore the theater. The theater was offered for sale for $950,000. Performing Arts Foundation raised $350,000 in contributions and through negotiation convinced Annbar Associates to offer the remaining $600,000 of the purchase price as a donation. Following the Folly's listing on the National Register of Historic Places in 1974, a \"Strip the Folly\" fundraiser was held featuring Sally Rand, who had performed at the Folly. After seven years a full renovation was completed in 1981, including the construction of an annex on the site of the former Edward Hotel.\n\nIn the Folly's centennial year of 2000, a new lobby, restrooms, and second-floor Shareholders' Room were added. In 2005, the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Folly's reopening, the auditorium's original color scheme was restored. Plans are now under way, and approval has been granted by the Kansas City Landmarks Commission, to install a marquee sign that closely mimics the original Folly signage.\n\nThe Performing Arts Foundation of Kansas City, d.b.a. The Folly Theater, is a 501 (c)(3) non-profit corporation whose mission is \"to preserve Kansas City's oldest historic theater as a premier performance venue by presenting, producing, and hosting a wide range of quality events for the community\". The Folly produces a Jazz Series, a Kids Series, and \"Cyprus Avenue Live!\" performances by artists ranging from blues to rock and country. It hosts the Harriman-Jewell Series of classical performers, the Friends of Chamber Music series, and the Heartland Men's Chorus.\n\nThe Neo-Palladian facade uses Carthage limestone and red pressed brick, with an adapted Palladian window centered in the facade. Rather than a fully glazed infill within the limestone Palladian framework, the lower portion of the unit uses three arched windows with an entablature over the center window dividing it from the lunette under the principal arch. The street level is heavily rusticated limestone with three arched entrances and wrapping a short way around the right (east) side to form an additional arch. The east wall contains small limestone-framed ventilation openings near the top, as well as emergency exits and a high opening for stage scenery. The building is deep, wide and high.\n\nThe interior structure mixes steel and wood construction. There is a basement under the stage, housing mechanical systems and backstage service spaces. The main floor is entered through a lobby and a box office area. The house contains three sections of seats facing a highly decorated proscenium arch. The house is flanked by balcony-level boxes, with the main balcony to the rear. The stage is provided with a fly loft, fly balconies, a scenery workshop, and ten dressing rooms. Interior decoration is predominantly red and gold.\n\nThe exterior is largely unaltered, but the interior has been substantially renovated. In 1923, the lobby was reduced in size, moving the box office and eliminating a secondary box office for the balcony, while the balcony itself and a gallery level were replaced by a single larger balcony, reducing seating capacity. Plasterwork in the upper levels was replaced at this time, and a manager's apartment was removed.\n\nCurrent seating capacity is 1,078 seats.\n\n"}
{"id": "2264742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264742", "title": "Great Depression in Australia", "text": "Great Depression in Australia\n\nAustralia suffered badly during the period of the Great Depression of the 1930s. The Depression began with the Wall Street Crash of 1929 and rapidly spread worldwide. As in other nations, Australia suffered years of high unemployment, poverty, low profits, deflation, plunging incomes, and lost opportunities for economic growth and personal advancement.\n\nThe Australian economy and foreign policy largely rested upon its place as a primary producer within the British Empire, and Australia's important export industries, particularly primary products such as wool and wheat, suffered significantly from the collapse in international demand. Unemployment reached a record high of around 30% in 1932, and gross domestic product declined by 10% between 1929 and 1931.\n\nThere were also incidents of civil unrest, particularly in Australia's largest city, Sydney. Though Australian Communist and far right movements were active in the Depression, they remained largely on the periphery of Australian politics, failing to achieve the power shifts obtained in Europe, and the democratic political system of the young Australian Federation survived the strain of the period.\n\nThe James Scullin Labor Government had just assumed power with the commencement of the Scullin Ministry on 22 October following the 1929 federal election, however just a couple of days later, \"Black Thursday\" would mark the start of the Wall Street Crash of 1929 and the subsequent global onset of the Great Depression. From the outset the government was buffeted by the effects of the global economic crisis. With the government unable to implement the deflationary Premiers' Plan, Labor had split by 1931 over how to deal with the crisis, with Treasurer Ted Theodore failing to implement his Keynesian inflationary plans, and New South Wales Premier Jack Lang losing office over his plans to boost the budget through a temporary cessation of interest repayments on debts to Britain and that interest on all government borrowings be reduced by 3% to free up money for injection into the economy. Labor defector Joseph Lyons helped to form the United Australia Party through the ending of the Nationalist Party of Australia and succeeded Scullin as Prime Minister of Australia from the 1931 federal election until his death in 1939.\n\nThus Australia, unlike the United States, did not embark on a significant Keynesian program of spending to recover from the Depression. Nevertheless, the Australian recovery began around 1932. Australians took consolation from sporting achievements through the Depression, with cricketer Don Bradman and race horse Phar Lap achieving long-lasting fame.\n\nThe Great War (World War I) had depleted Britain's savings and foreign investments, and wartime inflation had upset the United Kingdom's terms of trade. A sluggish economy in Britain naturally reduced British demand for imports from Australia throughout the 1920s and this had affected Australia's balance of payments. Throughout the 1920s the Australian unemployment rate floated between 6% and 11%.\n\nThe Great War had also caused many necessary infrastructure projects to be delayed or abandoned, many of which began in the 1920s, including the Sydney Harbour Bridge and Sydney's underground railway system in addition to the Commonwealth government beginning to fund major highways. New dams and grain elevators were built, and the rural railway network was expanded in nearly every state. Large sums of government money were made available to provide returned First World War servicemen with farmland and agricultural equipment under soldier settlement schemes.\n\nAll these publicly funded projects were paid for by loans raised by both state and federal governments. Most of these loans were raised on capital markets in the City of London at an average of £30 million per annum.\n\nIn 1910, the federal government introduced a national currency, the Australian pound, which it pegged to the pound sterling. In effect, Australia was on the gold standard through the British peg. In 1914, Britain removed the pound sterling from the gold standard, creating inflation pressures. Britain returned the pound sterling to the gold standard in 1925 at pre-1913 parity, effectively revaluing both currencies significantly and unleashing crushing deflationary pressures and falling export demand. This had the immediate effect of making British and Australian exports far less competitive in non-British markets, and affected Australia's terms of trade.\n\nIn 1929, as an emergency measure during the Great Depression, Australia left the gold standard, resulting in a devaluation relative to sterling. A variety of pegs to sterling applied until December 1931, when the government set a rate of £1 Australian = 16 shillings sterling. This was intended to ease entry of Australian goods into the British and other linked markets.\n\nFalling export demand and commodity prices placed massive downward pressures on wages, particularly in industries such as coal mining. Due to falling prices, bosses were unable to pay the wages that workers wanted. The result was a series of crippling strikes in many sectors of the economy in the late 1920s. Coal miners' strikes in the winter of 1929 brought much of the economy to its knees. A riot at a picket line in the Hunter Region mining town of Rothbury saw police shoot one teenage coal miner dead.\n\nThe conservative Prime Minister of Australia, Stanley Bruce, wished to dismantle the conciliation and arbitration system of judicially supervised collective bargaining which had been the cornerstone of Australia's industrial relations system since the 1900s, which would allow employers alone to increase or decrease employee wages in response to economic and market conditions.\n\nThe opposition Australian Labor Party, led by James Scullin, successfully depicted Stanley Bruce as wanting to destroy Australia's high wages and working conditions in the 1929 federal election. Scullin was elected Prime Minister in a landslide which saw Stanley Bruce voted out as the Member for Flinders, the only time until the 2007 federal election that a sitting Prime Minister lost his seat.\n\nThe James Scullin Labor Government had just assumed power with the commencement of the Scullin Ministry on 22 October following the 1929 federal election, however just a couple of days later, Black Thursday would mark the start of the Wall Street Crash of 1929 and the subsequent global onset of the Great Depression. From the outset the Scullin administration was buffeted by the effects of the global economic crisis.\n\nThroughout Scullin's term, commodity prices continued to fall, unemployment rose, and Australia's big cities were depopulated as thousands of unemployed men took to the countryside in search of menial agricultural work. The stagnant economy had reduced economic activity and therefore tax revenues. However, the debt commitments of both state and federal governments remained the same. Australia became severely at risk of defaulting on its foreign debt which had been accumulated during the relative prosperity and infrastructure-building frenzy of the 1920s.\n\nThe Great Depression in Australia saw huge levels of unemployment and economic suffering amid plummeting export income. Although the economic downturn was a product of international events, Australian governments grappled with how to respond. Conventional economists said governments should pursue deflationary policies. Radicals proposed inflationary responses and increased government spending. Division emerged within the Labor Party over how to respond.\n\nIn August 1930, Scullin invited Sir Otto Niemeyer of the Bank of England to come to Australia to advise on economic policy. Niemeyer met with Federal and State leaders at a conference in Melbourne where he recommended a traditional deflationary response of balanced budgets to combat Australia's high levels of debt and insisted that interest on loans be met. It entailed the balancing of the budget through expenditure and wage cuts, without additional overseas borrowing, necessitating reductions in social welfare programs, defence spending and other sweeping cutbacks. The Premiers and Prime Minister Scullin agreed to this \"Melbourne Plan\", which would go on to form the basis of the Premiers' Plan. Ted Theodore, Treasurer in Scullin's Government, supported an \"inflationary\" policy of increased government spending in times of a recession, a view espoused in 1936 by John Maynard Keynes. The Senate and Commonwealth Bank (then also acting as the country's central bank) rejected Theodore's spending plans. The Labor Premier of New South Wales meanwhile announced the Lang Plan in February 1931, which included a temporary cessation of interest repayments on debts to Britain and that interest on all government borrowings be reduced to 3% to free up money for injection into the economy.\n\nIn 1929, as an emergency measure, Australia took the Australian pound off the gold standard, resulting in a devaluation relative to sterling. Starting in September 1930, the Australian banks began to slowly devalue the Australian pound, and a year later it had been devalued 30% against the Pound Sterling. This had the economic effect of increasing the cost of imported goods and increasing the cost of servicing government overseas debts, which were denominated in the overseas currency, typically in sterling. \n\nJack Lang, the Labor Party Leader of the Opposition in New South Wales and a fiery left-wing populist, campaigned vigorously against the provisions of the Melbourne Agreement. He was elected in a landslide in the NSW state election of 1930.\n\nScullin departed for an Imperial economic conference in London, necessitating an absence of five months, during which time he managed to secure reduced interest payments for Australia. With James Fenton as acting Prime Minister and Joseph Lyons as acting treasurer in his absence, Labor continued to negotiate Australia's economic response, with Fenton and Lyons advocating a more conservative fiscal approach and the unions and caucus calling for repudiation of debts.\n\nIn 1931 at an economic crisis conference in Canberra, Jack Lang issued his own programme for economic recovery. The \"Lang Plan\" advocated the repudiation of interest payments to overseas creditors until domestic conditions improved, the abolition of the Gold Standard to be replaced by a \"Goods Standard\" where the amount of money in circulation was linked to the amount of goods produced, and the immediate injection of £18 million of new money into the economy in the form of Commonwealth Bank of Australia credit. The Prime Minister and all other state Premiers refused.\n\nWith the rejection of the Theodore and Lang inflationary plans, the governments of Australia met to negotiate a compromise in 1931. The resulting Premiers' Plan required the Australian Federal and State governments to cut spending by 20%, including cuts to wages and pensions and was to be accompanied by tax increases, reductions in interest on bank deposits and a 22.5% reduction in the interest the government paid on internal loans.\n\nThe policy contrasted with the approach put forward by the British economist John Maynard Keynes and which was pursued by the United States, which held that governments needed to \"spend\" their way out of the Depression. The plan was signed by New South Wales Labor Premier Jack Lang, but he was a notable critic of its underlying philosophy and went on to pursue his own policy of defaulting on debt repayments, which led to confrontation with the Federal Scullin and Lyons Governments and resulted in the Lang Dismissal Crisis of 1932.\n\nThe Labor Party soon split into three separate factions. Jack Lang and his supporters, mainly in New South Wales, were expelled from the party and formed a left-wing splinter party officially known as the New South Wales Labor Party, commonly known as Lang Labor. The Minister for Public Works and Railways, Joseph Lyons, led a conservative faction, which believed in the deflationary approach of balanced budgets and cuts in spending and opposed defaulting on debt repayments. When the more radical Ted Theodore was reinstated as Treasurer by Scullin on 29 January, Joseph Lyons and James Fenton along with three others resigned from the government, joining the opposition Nationalist Party to form the United Australia Party. The Australian Labor Party would remain in government through the parliamentary term however, with Scullin as Prime Minister, and except for a brief stint by Scullin, Theodore as Treasurer.\n\nThe stance of Joseph Lyons and James Fenton against the more radical proposals of the Labor movement to deal with the Depression had attracted the support of prominent Australian conservatives, known as \"the Group\", whose number included future prime minister Robert Menzies. In parliament on 13 March 1931, though still a member of the ALP, Lyons supported a no confidence motion against the Scullin Labor government. The United Australia Party was then formed from a coalition of citizens’ groups and with the support of the Nationalist Party of Australia. Lyons quit the ALP to become parliamentary leader of the newly established United Australia Party, with John Latham, Nationalist Leader of the Opposition, becoming the new party's deputy leader.\n\nIn November 1931, Lang Labor dissidents chose to challenge the Scullin Labor government and align with the United Australia Party Opposition to pass a ‘no confidence’ and the government fell. At the 1931 federal election, the ALP were left with just 14 seats after losing 32 seats, though an extra 4 seats were won by NSW Lang Labor. The Lyons-led United Australia Party in Coalition with the Country Party commenced its first term of government in January 1932.\n\nBefore being voted out of office, the Scullin government had covered NSW's debt default. The federal government had paid NSW's bond installments and intended to recoup this money from the NSW Government. A dramatic episode in Australian history followed Lyons first electoral victory. When NSW Premier Jack Lang refused to pay interest on overseas State debts, the Lyons government stepped in and paid the debts and then passed the Financial Agreement Enforcement Act to recover the money it had paid. In an effort to frustrate this move, Lang ordered State departments to pay all receipts directly to the Treasury instead of into Government bank accounts. The New South Wales Governor, Sir Philip Game, intervened on the basis that Lang had acted illegally in breach of the state Audit Act and sacked the Lang Government, who then suffered a landslide loss at the subsequent 1932 state election.\n\nAustralia would recover relatively quickly from the global financial downturn, with recovery beginning around 1932. Lyons pursued an orthodox fiscal policy, favouring the deflationary economic measures of the Premiers' Plan, and refused to accept NSW Premier Jack Lang's proposals to default on overseas debt repayments. Australia entered the Depression with a debt crisis and a credit crisis. According to author Anne Henderson of the conservative Sydney Institute, Lyons held a steadfast belief in \"the need to balance budgets, lower costs to business and restore confidence\" and the Lyons period gave Australia \"stability and eventual growth\" between the drama of the Depression and the outbreak of the Second World War. A lowering of wages was enforced and industry tariff protections maintained, which together with cheaper raw materials during the 1930s saw a shift from agriculture to manufacturing as the chief employer of the Australian economy - a shift which was consolidated by increased investment by the commonwealth government into defence and armaments manufacture. Lyons saw restoration of Australia's exports as the key to economic recovery. A devalued Australian currency assisted in restoring a favourable balance of trade.\n\nDuring the Great Depression, different parts of Australian society experienced different hardships, challenges and opportunities. There was increased movement of many people to and from country areas in search of work. City and urban people planted gardens to produce fruit and vegetables. In some urban areas co-operatives were formed based on barter systems to share what was available. Shacks were built on the outskirts of large cities to house some who lost their homes, for example near the beach at Garie in the Royal National Park south of Sydney. There has been anecdotal evidence of families resorting to living in caves with authorities turning a blind eye as there were no other accommodation available.\n\nFor Australians, the decade of the 1930s began with problems of huge unemployment, because the fall of the stock markets on Wall Street reduced confidence throughout the world. Most governments reacted to the crisis with similar policies, aimed at slashing back government spending and paying back loans. The Australian government could do little to change the effects of the slump and the tough economic times ahead. This affected the country in many ways.\n\nBecause of economic downturn, people’s lives changed drastically. Australia had supplied huge amounts of wool for uniforms during World War 1, and many exports helped Australia achieve a high standard of living in the 1920s. The majority of the people of Australia lived very well prior to the fall, so they felt the effects of the depression strongly. Because of the severe economic contraction, the reduction of purchasing goods, employers couldn’t afford to keep excessive workers. A five-year unemployment average for 1930-34 was 23.4%, with a peak of approximately 30% of the nation being unemployed in 1932. This was one of the most severe unemployment rates in the industrialised world, exceeded only by Germany.\n\nMany hundreds of thousands of Australians suddenly faced the humiliation of poverty and unemployment. This was still the era of traditional social family structure, where the man was expected to be the sole bread winner. Soup kitchens and charity groups made brave attempts to feed the many starving and destitute. The suicide rates increased dramatically and it became clear that Australia had limits to the resources for dealing with the crisis. The depression's sudden and widespread unemployment hit the soldiers who had just returned from war the hardest as they were in their mid-thirties and still suffering the trauma of their wartime experiences. At night many slept covered in newspapers at Sydney’s Domain or at Salvation Army refugees.\n\nThe limited jobs that did arise were viciously fought for. The job vacancies were advertised in the daily newspaper, which formed massive queues to search for any job available. This then caused the race to arrive first at the place of employment (the first person to turn up was usually hired.) This is depicted in the Australian film \"Caddie\".\n\nExtraordinary sporting successes did something to alleviate the spirits of Australians during the economic downturn. In a Sheffield Shield cricket match at the Sydney Cricket Ground in 1930, Don Bradman, a young New South Welshman of just 21 years of age wrote his name into the record books by smashing the previous highest batting score in first-class cricket with 452 runs not out in just 415 minutes. The rising star's world-beating cricketing exploits were to provide much needed joy to Australians through the emerging Great Depression and Post World War One recovery.\n\nBetween 1929 and 1931 the racehorse Phar Lap dominated Australia's racing industry, at one stage winning fourteen races in a row. Famous victories included the 1930 Melbourne Cup, following an assassination attempt and carrying 9 stone 12 pounds weight. Phar Lap sailed for the United States in 1931, going on to win North America's richest race, the Agua Caliente Handicap in Tijuana, Mexico, in 1932. Soon after, on the cusp of US success, Phar Lap developed suspicious symptoms and died. Theories swirled that the champion race horse had been poisoned and a devoted Australian public went into shock.\n\nThe 1938 British Empire Games were held in Sydney at the Cricket Ground from 5–12 February, timed to coincide with Sydney's sesqui-centenary (150 years since the foundation of British settlement in Australia).\n\nUnlike the United States, where Franklin Roosevelt's inflationary New Deal attempted to stimulate the American economy, New Zealand where Michael Savage's pioneering welfare state tried to reduce hardship, or the United Kingdom where rearmament (from 1936) increased deficit spending, there was no significant mechanism for inflationary Keynesian economic policy responses in Australia.\n\nAustralia's recovery during the 1930s was led by the manufacturing sector.\n\nFederation in 1901 had granted only limited power to the federal government. For example, income taxes were collected by the State governments. Some argued that Australia's protectionist high tariffs worked to hurt the economy and that influential interest groups sought no change in this aspect of policy. Additionally, there was no significant banking reform or nationalisation of private businesses.\n\nThe devaluation of the Australian pound, abandonment of the Gold Standard, recovery of major trading partners like the United Kingdom and public works projects instituted by State and local governments led to a slow recovery. Unemployment, which peaked at 32% in 1932, was 11% at the start of the Second World War compared to 17.2% in the United States.\n\nFollowing Lyons' death in 1939, Robert Menzies assumed the United Australia Party leadership and the prime ministership, however the 1940 federal election resulted in a hung parliament. A year later, Menzies' minority government was brought down in the House of Representatives when the two independents crossed the floor and switched their support to Labor, bringing John Curtin to power during World War II. At the 1943 federal election, Curtin led Labor to their greatest House of Representatives victory both in terms of proportion of seats and their strongest national two-party vote. Curtin died in 1945 however, and was succeeded as Labor leader and prime minister by Ben Chifley, who would lead Labor to their first successful federal re-election attempt at the 1946 federal election, before their defeat at the 1949 federal election by the Menzies-led Liberal Party of Australia in Coalition with the Country Party. The comprehensive economic and social reforms and reformist nature of the Chifley Labor government was such that between 1946 and 1949, the Australian Parliament passed 299 Acts, a record until then, well beyond Labor's Andrew Fisher's 113 Acts from 1910 to 1913.\n\nCurtin and Chifley, who often used the spectre of another depression in their campaign rhetoric, utilised emergency wartime powers to introduce a command economy in Australia based on Keynesian principles. Unemployment was virtually eliminated in this period, being reduced to a record low of 1.1%. In 1942, income tax became federally controlled with the states conceding that the war effort needed a centrally controlled financial basis.\n\nIn 1944, Curtin announced the plan for a white paper on full employment. This white paper served a variety of roles; to establish the priority of full employment; to ensure the depression would not recur; and to propose ways to make these objectives possible. Dr H C 'Nugget' Coombs as director-general of the Reconstruction Ministry had major input into this policy. The economic theories proposed by J M Keynes in 1936 were a major influence on the white paper.\n\nBetween 1947 and 1949 Chifley also attempted to nationalise the banking sector, arguing that public control over the finance industry would assist in preventing further depressions. These plans saw bitter and protracted opposition from the media, conservative parties and the banks themselves. The High Court of Australia ruled that the proposed nationalisation of banks was unconstitutional. The government unsuccessfully appealed the decision in the Privy Council.\n\nIn 1949, the combined perceived threats of international and domestic communism and industrial unrest along with the public's waning support for extended rationing and intervention following the close of the War saw the return of Menzies to the prime ministership. Though Menzies was a conservative, his sixteen subsequent years in power saw the government continue the use of Keynesian methods in economic policy as well as further expansion of the Curtin and Chifley economic and social legacies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34330189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34330189", "title": "Guinea-Bissau presidential election, 2012", "text": "Guinea-Bissau presidential election, 2012\n\nPresidential elections were held in Guinea-Bissau on 18 March 2012 following the death of President Malam Bacai Sanhá on 9 January. A run-off was set to be held on 29 April after being postponed by a week as announced by electoral commission chief Desejado Lima Dacosta. However, after a military coup, the leading candidates were arrested and the election was cancelled. The junta's spokesman then announced plans to hold an election in two years, despite condemnation. General elections were subsequently held in April 2014.\n\nFollowing the death of Malam Bacai Sanhá on 9 January 2012, an early presidential elections were scheduled to be held within 90 days, in accordance with the constitution. \n\nNo president in the history of independent Guinea-Bissau has completed his term in office: Three presidents have been ousted, one was assassinated, and another died in office.\n\nPrime Minister Carlos Gomes Júnior resigned on 10 February to run for the presidency. A total of nine candidates contested the elections, five of whom ran in the previous elections in 2009. Their campaign literature was said to be \"largely recycled.\" Carlos Gomes Júnior and Kumba Ialá were said to be the frontrunners in the election.\n\nIalá's support base was primarily based on his Balanta ethnic group. Gomes Júnior had indicated he wanted to reform the armed forces, with which he had a tense relationship.\n\nCampaigning for the second round was due to start on 13 April and end on 27 April.\n\nUNIOGBIS spokesman Vladimir Monteiro said: \"The election was held in a very peaceful manner. In the morning, participation was relatively weak but, all day long, leaders of the electoral body encouraged the people to go and vote, and it seems that people listened and went to vote because the participation finally increased.\" He also added that the election commission is mandated by the constitution to release the result within 10 days of the election. However, the same night fears of military-linked violence increased with the assassination of the former head of military intelligence, Colonel Samba Diallo, just before midnight at a bar in the national capital of Bissau. \"The Guardian\" reported witnesses as saying that soldiers had fired at him and then taken his body away, possibly to a hospital.\n\nNo candidate was able to attain a 50% majority in the first round. The leading two candidates, Carlos Gomes Júnior and Kumba Ialá were set to face each other in a runoff election to be held on 22 April.\n\nFive of the first round candidates complained that the poll had been fraudulent despite independent, international observers stating that it was conducted fairly.\n\nDespite a peaceful campaign, there were fears of possible violence or a coup d'état if the army did not approve of the winner. UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon called for a \"peaceful, orderly and transparent\" election. Opposition leaders, led by Ialá, called for a boycott of the second round because they considered the election fraudulent,with Ialá calling for new voter registration to take place and warned against campaigning. \n\nThe Director General of the Judicial Police Joao Biague announced that the former head of intelligence, Samba Diallo, was assassinated shortly after the polls closed. On 12 April, elements within the factionalised army staged a coup d'état, leading to the arrest of both second round candidates, amongst others, by the Military Command and calls for a national unity government.\n"}
{"id": "1810648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1810648", "title": "Happy slapping", "text": "Happy slapping\n\nHappy slapping was a fad originating in the United Kingdom around 2005, in which one or more people out of boredom attack a victim for the purpose of recording the assault (commonly with a camera phone or a smartphone). Though the term usually refers to relatively minor acts of violence such as hitting or slapping the victim, more serious crimes such as the manslaughter of a pensioner and sexual assault have been classified as \"happy slapping\" by the BBC.\n\nThe ease and general availability of video cameras in mobile phones means that such attacks need not be planned carefully beforehand and are more easily watched and circulated for entertainment. Some political and media commentators claim the craze was inspired by such television shows as \"Jackass\", \"Dirty Sanchez\" and \"Bumfights\".\n\n\"Happy slapping\" started in the South London Borough of Lewisham, in a format known as \"Slap Happy TV\", where a happy-slapping video would be recorded, and then watched by dozens of people like a TV show, but in the form of a montage. Videos of Happy Slapping were commonly circulated via Bluetooth on mobile phones. The first newspaper article to use the phrase \"happy slapping\" was \"Bullies film fights by phone\", published in The \"Times Educational Supplement\" on 21 January 2005, in which reporter Michael Shaw described teachers' accounts of the craze in London schools.\n\nGary Martin, writing on \"The Phrase Finder\" website described the phenomenon as: \"Unprovoked attacks on individuals made in order to record the event, and especially the victim's shock and surprise, on video phones.\"\n\nMartin wrote that happy slapping \"began as a youth craze in the UK in late 2004. Children or passers by are slapped or otherwise mugged by one or more of a gang while others record the event on video and then distribute it by phone or Internet. Initially the attacks were, as the phrase would have us believe, fairly minor pranks ... As the craze spread the attacks became more vicious – often serious assaults known in legal circles as grievous bodily harm.\"\n\nWhen the international media attention surrounding attacks abroad reached a high point, a girl was sentenced to eight months in prison. She was sentenced on a number of counts including previous crimes. \n\nA common punishment in 2007 was a fine or up to 40 days in prison, suspended if the attacker has no previous record. The attacker shall be liable to a fine or imprisonment for any term which does not exceed 3 years. Happy slapping is judged as \"simple battery\" as defined by section 244 of the Danish Criminal Code.\n\nIn February 2007, an amendment aimed at criminalising \"happy slapping\" was added to a law \"on the prevention of delinquency\" by the Parliament of France based on a proposal from then Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy. the anti-happy-slapping clause appears as the last part of Article 44, which also deals with ambushing law enforcement personnel. The law equates filming or photographing certain classes of violent crimes, including severe beatings and rape, with being an accomplice of such crimes. The law makes it illegal to broadcast the images of such crimes, punishable by up to 5 years in prison and/or a €75,000 fine.\n\nThe law does not apply to those who took the above actions in order to obtain evidence in court, or as professional journalism. Professional journalism is delimited in France by the \"press card\", which is awarded by a commission representing journalist unions and press organizations. As defined by law, a professional journalist is one whose main activity is professional paid journalism.\n\nThe bill was signed into law on 5 March 2007, despite some organizations, including Reporters Without Borders, and the French chapter of Wikimedia, arguing that this clause created a legal discrimination in criminal law between professional journalists and ordinary citizens practicing journalism. Specifically, it was argued that citizens filming incidents of police brutality and publishing such information online could be intimidated by law enforcement into remaining silent, or prosecuted for their actions. This criticism was relayed by the international media.\n\nFrench President Nicolas Sarkozy declared to Reporters Without Borders that \"the spirit of the law is not to infringe of freedom of information. However, if the least doubt subsisted, then I'm in favour of a clarification of the law.\"\n\nIn March 2008, a teenage girl who filmed the fatal beating of a man on her mobile phone was sentenced to two years' detention in the first prosecution of its kind in the United Kingdom. The judge stated that the courts had to make an example of such youths. She had pleaded guilty at Leeds Crown Court in February 2008 to aiding and abetting the manslaughter of Gavin Waterhouse, 29, from Keighley, West Yorkshire. Mark Masters, 19, from Keighley, and Sean Thompson, 17, from Bradford, were sentenced to seven and six years respectively after admitting to manslaughter. Waterhouse died from a ruptured spleen after being beaten in September 2007.\n\nJust before the attack, the girl was handed a mobile phone by one of the attackers and told to \"video this\", prosecutors said. She approached Waterhouse, asked for money, and recorded the subsequent attack. She was sentenced to serve a two-year detention training order. Police said they were satisfied with the court's decision. The Crown Prosecutor said \"this is the first time a suspect in England and Wales has been successfully prosecuted for aiding and abetting murder or manslaughter, for the filming of an inaptly called 'happy slapping' incident\".\n\n\nThe group of British teenagers in the movie \"Eden Lake\" filmed the torturing and burning of a little boy.\n\nIn \"Harry Brown\", a teenager films the murder of an elderly man, which Michael Caine's character uses as evidence to inflict pain on the teenager.\n\nIn Series 2 Episode 1 of British political satire \"The Thick of It\", Hugh tells Glenn to happy slap Ollie while Hugh takes a picture of it on Ollie's phone.\n\nIn \"Coronation Street\" in November 2013, Simon Barlow was the victim of a happy slapping incident caused by Faye Windass and Grace Piper. Simon was attacked, forced into one of his cousin Amy's dresses and had lipstick tried to be applied to him. Grace filmed while Faye attacked him.\n\nIn 2011, Canadian filmmaker Christos Sourligas directed a film, also called \"Happy Slapping\", about this phenomenon. The film was shot entirely on iPhone 4s by the cast. It was re-edited in 2014 with new material to accommodate the \"selfie\"-obsessed market.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56477466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56477466", "title": "Imaging X-ray Polarimetry Explorer", "text": "Imaging X-ray Polarimetry Explorer\n\nThe Imaging X-ray Polarimetry Explorer (IXPE) is a future space observatory with three identical telescopes designed to measure the polarization of cosmic X-rays. The mission will study exotic astronomical objects and permit mapping the magnetic fields of black holes, neutron stars, pulsars, supernova remnants, magnetars, quasars, and active galactic nuclei. The high-energy X-ray radiation from these objects' surrounding environment can be polarized – vibrating in a particular direction. Studying the polarization of X-rays reveals the physics of these objects and can provide insights into the high-temperature environments where they are created.\n\nThe IXPE mission was announced on January 3, 2017. It is being developed by NASA's Small Explorer program (SMEX) and is slated for launch in 2021. The estimated cost of the mission and its two-year operation is $188 million. The goal of the IXPE mission is to expand understanding of high-energy astrophysical processes and sources, in support of NASA's first science objective in astrophysics: \"Discover how the universe works.\" By obtaining X-ray polarimetry and polarimetric imaging of cosmic sources, IXPE addresses two specific science objectives: to determine the radiation processes and detailed properties of specific cosmic X-ray sources or categories of sources; and to explore general relativistic and quantum effects in extreme environments.\n\nDuring IXPE's two-year mission, it will study targets such as active galactic nuclei, quasars, pulsars, pulsar wind nebulae, magnetars, accreting X-ray binaries, supernova remnants, and the Galactic center. \n\nThe spacecraft is being built by Ball Aerospace. The Principal Investigator is Martin Weisskopf of NASA Marshall Space Flight Center; he is the chief scientist for X-ray astronomy at NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center and project scientist for the Chandra X-Ray Observatory spacecraft.\n\nThe IXPE mission is an international collaboration signed on June 2017. The X-ray polarization detectors will be provided by the Italian Space Agency (ASI). Brian Ramsey is leading the effort to produce the grazing-incidence X-ray mirrors at NASA/MSFC. Other partners include the University of Colorado at Boulder, Stanford University, McGill University in Canada, and MIT (Massachusetts Institute of Technology).\n\nThe technical and science objectives include: \n\nThe space observatory features three identical telescopes designed to measure the polarization of cosmic X-rays. The system was invented and developed by Italian scientists and refined over the past 15 years by the Italian Istituto Nazionale di Fisica Nucleare (INFN). \nIXPE's payload is a set of three identical imaging X-ray polarimetry systems mounted on a common optical bench and co-aligned with the pointing axis of the spacecraft. Each system operates independently for redundancy, and comprises a 4-meter focal length mirror module assembly that focuses X-rays onto a polarization-sensitive imaging detector developed in Italy. The focal length is achieved using a deployable boom. \n\nThe Gas Pixel Detectors (GPD) utilize the anisotropy of the emission direction of photoelectrons produced by polarized photons to gauge with high sensitivity the polarization state of X-rays interacting in a gaseous medium. Position- and energy-dependent polarization maps of such synchrotron-emitting sources will elucidate the magnetic field structure of the X-ray emitting regions. X-ray polarimetric imaging better indicates the magnetic structure in regions of strong electron acceleration. The system is capable to resolve point sources from surrounding nebular emission or from adjacent point sources.\n"}
{"id": "5203765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5203765", "title": "Interserie", "text": "Interserie\n\nInterserie is the name of a European-based motorsport series started in 1970 that allows for a wide variety of racing cars from various eras and series to compete with less limited rules than in other series.\n\nCreated in 1970 by German Gerhard Härle, it is inspired by English races of the 1960s for Group 7 machinery and by the Nordic Challenge Cup which had run in 1969 in Finland and Sweden. Initially using the Group 7 formula similar to that used by Can-Am in North America, the series would evolve to include open-wheel cars with sports-car style full bodywork from CART, Formula One, Formula 3000, Formula 3 and various other series, as well as Group C sports cars.\n\nAlthough the teams are not as limitless in their modifications or powerplants, the series continues to run today, mostly with various open-wheel cars without full bodywork that became obsolete in current championship series.\n\nStarting from 1999, the Interserie lost its international status and became a Central European championship with sprint races organised by the Automobilclub von Deutschland, mostly for modified formula cars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26710611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26710611", "title": "KPN Award", "text": "KPN Award\n\nThe KPN Award vocal competition was founded in 1983, and is considered to be one of Thailand's most prestigious singing contests. Former contestants include Thongchai \"Bird\" McIntyre and Jennifer Kim.\n\n"}
{"id": "2463665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2463665", "title": "Komagata Maru incident", "text": "Komagata Maru incident\n\nThe \"Komagata Maru\" incident involved the Japanese steamship \"Komagata Maru\" on which a group of citizens of the British Raj attempted to emigrate to Canada in 1914 but were denied entry and forced return to Calcutta (present day Kolkata), India. There they were fired upon by British police resulting in the deaths of 20 Sikhs.\n\n\"Komagata Maru\" sailed from British Hong Kong, via Shanghai, China, and Yokohama, Japan, to Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, in 1914, carrying 376 passengers from Punjab, British India. Of them, 24 were admitted to Canada, but the other 352 passengers were not allowed to disembark in Canada, and the ship was forced to return to India. The passengers comprised 340 Sikhs, 24 Muslims, and 12 Hindus, all British subjects. This was one of several incidents in the early 20th century in which exclusion laws in Canada and the United States were used to exclude immigrants of Asian origin.\n\nWithin the British Empire, the main class of people who were not British subjects were the rulers of native states formally under the protection of the British Crown, and their subjects. Many such smaller states, especially in India, were for most practical purposes administered by the imperial government, but sovereignty rested in their rulers and not in the British Crown, and all such persons were (and still are) considered to have been born outside the sovereignty and allegiance of the Crown, and are known as British Protected Persons.\n\nThe Canadian government's first attempt to restrict immigration from India was an Order in Council passed on January 8, 1908, that prohibited immigration of persons who \"in the opinion of the Minister of the Interior\" did not \"come from the country of their birth or citizenship by a continuous journey and or through tickets purchased before leaving their country of their birth or nationality\". In practice this continuous journey regulation applied only to ships that began their voyage in India, as the great distance usually necessitated a stopover in Japan or Hawaii. These regulations came at a time when Canada was accepting huge numbers of immigrants, almost all of whom came from Europe. More than 400,000 arrived in 1913, an annual figure that has not been equaled since.\n\nGurdit Singh Sandhu, from Sarhali (not to be confused with Gurdit Singh Jawanda from Haripur Khalsa, a 1906 Indo-Canadian immigration pioneer), was a Singaporean fisherman who was aware that Canadian exclusion laws were preventing Punjabis from immigrating there. He wanted to circumvent these laws by hiring a boat to sail from Calcutta to Vancouver. His aim was to help his compatriots whose previous journeys to Canada had been blocked.\n\nThough Gurdit Singh was apparently aware of regulations when he chartered the ship \"Komagata Maru\" in January 1914, he continued with his enterprise to challenge the continuous journey regulation in the hopes of opening the door for immigration from India to Canada.\n\nAt the same time, in January 1914, he publicly espoused the Ghadarite cause while in Hong Kong. The Ghadar Party was an organization founded by Indian residents of the United States and Canada in June 1913 with the aim of liberating India from British rule. It was also known as the Hindi Association of the Pacific Coast.\n\nThe passengers consisted of 340 Sikhs, 24 Muslims, and 12 Hindus, all British subjects. One of the Sikh passengers, Jagat Singh Thind, was the youngest brother of Bhagat Singh Thind, an Indian-American Sikh writer and lecturer on \"spiritual science\" who was involved in an important legal battle over the rights of Indians to obtain U.S. citizenship (United States v. Bhagat Singh Thind).\n\nThe Canadian Government made claims that amongst the passengers were a number of Indian nationalists intent on creating disorder (see Ghadar conspiracy, Annie Larsen arms plot, and Christmas Day Plot.) However this was a public relations cover for its real motive for turning back the ship – a dislike of and discrimination against Indian nationals due to their ethnicity.\n\nHong Kong became the point of departure. The ship was scheduled to leave in March, but Singh was arrested for selling tickets for an illegal voyage. After several months he was released on bail and given permission by Francis Henry May, the Governor of Hong Kong, to set sail. The ship departed on April 4 with 165 passengers. More passengers joined at Shanghai on April 8, and the ship arrived at Yokohama on April 14. It left Yokohama on May 3 with its complement of 376 passengers and sailed into Burrard Inlet, near Vancouver, on May 23. The Indian Nationalist revolutionaries Barkatullah and Bhagwaan Singh Giani met with the ship en route. Bhagwaan Singh Giani was head priest of the Gurdwara in Vancouver and had been one of three delegates sent to London and India to represent the case of Indians in Canada. Ghadarite literature was disseminated on board and political meetings took place on board. A passenger told a British officer: \"This ship belongs to the whole of India, this is a symbol of the honour of India and if this was detained, there would be mutiny in the armies\".\n\nWhen \" Maru\" arrived in Canadian waters, first at Coal Harbour in Burrard Inlet some 200 meters off CPR Pier A, it was not allowed to dock. The first immigration officer to meet the ship in Vancouver was Fred \"Cyclone\" Taylor. While Prime Minister of Canada Robert Borden decided what to do with the ship, the Conservative Premier of British Columbia, Richard McBride, gave a categorical statement that the passengers would not be allowed to disembark. Conservative MP H. H. Stevens organized a public meeting against allowing the ship's passengers to disembark and urged the government to refuse to allow the ship to remain. Stevens worked with immigration official Malcolm R.J. Reid to keep the passengers off shore. Reid's intransigence, supported by Stevens, led to mistreatment of the passengers on the ship and prolonged its departure date, which was not resolved until the intervention of the federal Minister of Agriculture, Martin Burrell, MP for Yale—Cariboo.\n\nMeanwhile, a \"shore committee\" had been formed with Hassan Rahim and Sohan Lal Pathak. Protest meetings were held in Canada and the United States. At one, held in Dominion Hall, Vancouver, the assembly resolved that if the passengers were not allowed off, Indo-Canadians should follow them back to India to start a rebellion or \"Ghadar\". A British government agent who infiltrated the meeting wired government officials in London and Ottawa to tell them that supporters of the Ghadar Party were on the ship.\nThe shore committee raised $22,000 as an installment for chartering the ship. They also launched a lawsuit under J. Edward Bird's legal counsel on behalf of Munshi Singh, one of the passengers. On July 6, the full bench of the British Columbia Court of Appeal delivered a unanimous judgement that under new orders-in-council it had no authority to interfere with the decisions of the Department of Immigration and Colonization. Angry passengers relieved the Japanese captain of control of the ship, but the Canadian government ordered the harbour tug \"Sea Lion\" to push the ship out to sea. On July 19, the angry passengers mounted an attack. The next day the Vancouver newspaper \"The Sun\" reported: \"Howling masses of Hindus showered policemen with lumps of coal and bricks ... it was like standing underneath a coal chute\".\n\nThe government also mobilized , a Royal Canadian Navy ship under the command of Commander Hose, with troops from the 11th Regiment \"Irish Fusiliers of Canada\", 72nd Regiment \"Seaforth Highlanders of Canada\", and the 6th Regiment \"The Duke of Connaught's Own Rifles\". In the end, only twenty passengers were admitted to Canada, since the ship had violated the exclusion laws, the passengers did not have the required funds, and they had not sailed directly from India. The ship was turned around and forced to depart for Asia on July 23.\n\nDuring the controversy, Punjabi residents of Canada had supplied information to W. C. Hopkinson, a British immigration official. Two of these informants were murdered in August 1914. Hopkinson was gunned down at the Vancouver courthouse while attending the Punjabi trials in October 1914.\n\n\"Komagata Maru\" arrived in Calcutta on September 27. Upon entry into the harbour, the ship was stopped by a British gunboat, and the passengers were placed under guard. The government of the British Raj saw the men on \"Komagata Maru\" not only as self-confessed lawbreakers, but also as dangerous political agitators. The British government suspected that white and South Asian radicals were using the incident to create rebellion among South Asians in the Pacific Northwest. When the ship docked at Budge Budge, the police went to arrest Baba Gurdit Singh and the twenty or so other men that they viewed as leaders. He resisted arrest, a friend of his assaulted a policeman, and a general riot ensued. Shots were fired and nineteen of the passengers were killed. Some escaped, but the remainder were arrested and imprisoned or sent to their villages and kept under village arrest for the duration of the First World War. This incident became known as the Budge Budge riot.\n\nRingleader Gurdit Singh Sandhu managed to escape and lived in hiding until 1922. Mahatma Gandhi urged him to give himself up as a \"true patriot\". When he did so he was imprisoned for five years.\n\nThe \"Komagata Maru\" incident was widely cited at the time by Indian groups to highlight discrepancies in Canadian immigration laws. Further, the inflamed passions in the wake of the incident were widely cultivated by the Indian revolutionary organisation, the Ghadar Party, to rally support for its aims. In a number of meetings ranging from California in 1914 to the Indian diaspora, prominent Ghadarites including Barkatullah, Tarak Nath Das, and Sohan Singh used the incident as a rallying point to recruit members for the Ghadar movement, most notably in support of promulgating plans to coordinate a massive uprising in India. Their efforts failed due to lack of support from the general population.\n\nIn 1952 the Indian government set up a memorial to the \"Komagata Maru\" martyrs near the Budge Budge. It was inaugurated by Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru. The monument is locally known as the \"Punjabi Monument\" and is modelled as a kirpan (dagger) rising up toward the sky.\n\nA tripartite agreement was signed between the Kolkata Port Trust, Union Ministry of Culture and the \"Komagata Maru\" Trust for the construction of a G + 2 building behind the existing memorial. The building will house an administrative office and library in the ground floor, a museum in the first floor and auditorium in the second. The total cost of the construction will amount to 24 million Indian rupees (INR).\n\nIn 2014 government of India issued two special coins, INR 5 and INR 100, to mark the centenary of the \"Komagata Maru\" incident.\n\nA plaque commemorating the 75th anniversary of the departure of \"Komagata Maru\" was placed in the Sikh gurdwara (temple) in Vancouver on July 23, 1989.\n\nA plaque commemorating the 80th anniversary of the arrival of \"Komagata Maru\" was placed in the Vancouver harbour in 1994.\n\nA monument in remembrance of the \"Komagata Maru\" incident was unveiled in July 23, 2012. It is located near the steps of the seawall that lead up to the Vancouver Convention Centre West Building in Coal Harbour.\n\nA stamp commemorating the 100th anniversary of the arrival of \"Komagata Maru\" was released by Canada Post on May 1, 2014.\n\nThe first phase of the \"Komagata Maru\" Museum was opened in June 2012 at the Khalsa Diwan Society Vancouver Ross Street Temple.\n\nIn response to calls for the government of Canada to address historic wrongs involving immigration and wartime measures, the Conservative government in 2006 created the community historical recognition program to provide grant and contribution funding for community projects linked to wartime measures and immigration restrictions and a national historical recognition program to fund federal initiatives, developed in partnership with various groups. The announcement was made on June 23, 2006, when Prime Minister Stephen Harper apologized in the House of Commons for the head tax against Chinese immigrants.\n\nOn August 6, 2006, Prime Minister Harper made a speech at the Ghadri Babiyan da Mela (Festival of the Ghadar Party) in Surrey, B.C., where he stated that the government of Canada acknowledged the \"Komagata Maru\" incident and announced the government's commitment to \"undertake consultations with the Indo-Canadian community on how best to recognize this sad moment in Canada's history\". On April 3, 2008, Ruby Dhalla, MP for Brampton—Springdale, tabled motion 469 (M-469) in the House of Commons which read, \"That, in the opinion of the House, the government should officially apologize to the Indo-Canadian community and to the individuals impacted in the 1914 \"Komagata Maru\" incident, in which passengers were prevented from landing in Canada.\" On May 10, 2008, Jason Kenney, Secretary of State (Multiculturalism and Canadian Identity), announced the Indo-Canadian community would be able to apply for up to $2.5 million in grants and contributions funding to commemorate the \"Komagata Maru\" incident. Following further debate on May 15, 2008, Dhalla's motion was passed by the House of Commons.\n\nOn May 23, 2008, the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia unanimously passed a resolution \"that this Legislature apologizes for the events of May 23, 1914, when 376 passengers of the \"Komagata Maru\", stationed off Vancouver harbour, were denied entry by Canada. The House deeply regrets that the passengers, who sought refuge in our country and our province, were turned away without benefit of the fair and impartial treatment befitting a society where people of all cultures are welcomed and accepted.\"\n\nOn August 3, 2008, Harper appeared at the 13th annual Ghadri Babiyan Da Mela (festival) in Surrey, B.C., to issue an apology for the \"Komagata Maru\" incident. He said, in response to the House of Commons motion calling for an apology by the government, \"On behalf of the government of Canada, I am officially conveying as prime minister that apology.\"\n\nSome members of the Sikh community were unsatisfied with the apology because they expected it to be made in Parliament. Secretary of State Jason Kenney said: \"The apology has been given and it won't be repeated\".\n\nThe British Columbia Regiment (Duke of Connaught's Own), which was involved in the expulsion of the \"Komagata Maru\", was commanded by a Sikh, Harjit Sajjan, from 2011 until 2014. He later became Minister of National Defence.\n\nOn May 18, 2016, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau gave a formal \"full apology\" for the incident in the House of Commons.\n\nThe first Canadian play based on the incident is \"The Komagata Maru Incident\", written by Sharon Pollock and presented in January 1976. It was presented again in 2017 by the Stratford Festival, directed by Keira Loughran, starring Kiran Ahluwalia.\n\nThe first Canadian novel based on the incident is \"Lions of the Sea\", written by Jessi Thind and published in 2001. In 2011 Diana Lobb cited \"Lions of the Sea\" as one of the first fictionalized South Asian perspectives on the \"Komagata Maru\" in her philosophical dissertation presented to the University of Waterloo. Several friends of the author suggested the title of the novel for the Sikh Heritage Museum of Canada Komagata Maru exhibition in 2014 which was subsequently titled \"Lions of the Sea: The National Komagata Maru Exhibition.\" \"Lions of the Sea\" is being adapted into a film.\n\nAjmer Rode wrote the play \"Komagata Maru\" based on the incident in 1984. In 1989, when Indo-Canadian community of British Columbia commemorated the 75th anniversary of the \"Komagata Maru\", Sadhu Binning and Sukhwant Hundal wrote a play Samundari Sher Nal Takkar (\"The Battle with the Sealion\") and co-edited and produced first issue of Punjabi literary magazine \"Watan\" on the \"Komagata Maru\" incident.\n\nPhinder Dulai wrote A Letter To The Maru - 1914-1994. The letter was a fictionalized narrative utilizing both public record documentation and archival material; the piece ran in 1998 in an issue of Rungh Magazine.\n\nIn 2004, Ali Kazimi's feature documentary \"Continuous Journey\" was released. This is the first in-depth film to examine the events surrounding the turning-away of the \"Komagata Maru.\" The primary source research done for the film led to the discovery of rare film footage of the ship in Vancouver harbour. Eight years in the making, \"Continuous Journey\" has won over ten awards, including the Most Innovative Canadian Documentary at DOXA, Vancouver 2005, and a Golden Conch at the Mumbai International Film Festival, 2006. Also in 2006, Kazimi assisted broadcaster Jowi Taylor in obtaining a piece of red cedar from Jack Uppal's Goldwood Industries, the first Sikh-owned timber mill in British Columbia, as a way of bringing the \"Komagata Maru\" story and the story of Sikhs in Canada into the Six String Nation project. Parts of this wood now serve as kerfing strips on either side of the end block in the interior of \"Voyageur\", the guitar at the heart of the project.\n\nThe CBC radio play \"Entry Denied\", by the Indo-Canadian scriptwriter Sugith Varughese focuses on the incident.\n\nIn early 2006, Deepa Mehta, a film director, said she would produce a film about the incident titled \"Komagata Maru\". On October 9, 2008, it was announced that she had recast the lead role in favour of Akshay Kumar and Shriya Saran with a budget of $35 million.\n\nIn 2012, filmmaker Ali Kazimi's book \"Undesirables: White Canada and the Komagata Maru\" was published by Douglas & McIntyre.\n\nIn 2014, dream / arteries, written by Phinder Dulai, was published by Talon Books. The poetry book begins with a suite of poems that utilize archival records, public repositories, and online uploaded material never published before, including new photographs of the Komagata Maru from the Vancouver Public Library.\n\nSimon Fraser University Library launched a website \"Komagata Maru: Continuing the Journey\" in 2012 funded by the Department of Citizenship and Immigration Canada under the auspices of the Community Historical Recognition Program (CHRP). This website contains information and documents related to the \"Komagata Maru\" incident and a timeline that unfolds the details and supports teaching, research and knowledge about the \"Komagata Maru\" for school-aged, post-secondary and general audiences.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14735798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14735798", "title": "Lincoln–Kennedy coincidences urban legend", "text": "Lincoln–Kennedy coincidences urban legend\n\nClaimed coincidences connecting U.S. Presidents Abraham Lincoln and John F. Kennedy are a piece of American folklore of unknown origin. The list of coincidences appeared in the mainstream American press in 1964, a year after the assassination of John F. Kennedy, having appeared prior to that in the \"G.O.P. Congressional Committee Newsletter.\" Martin Gardner examined the list in an article in \"Scientific American,\" later reprinted in his book, \"The Magic Numbers of Dr. Matrix\". Gardner's version of the list contained 16 items; many subsequent versions have circulated much longer lists. The list is still in circulation today, having endured in the popular imagination for over 50 years. In 1992, the \"Skeptical Inquirer\" ran a \"Spooky Presidential Coincidences Contest.\" One winner found a series of sixteen similar coincidences between Kennedy and former Mexican President Álvaro Obregón, while the other came up with similar lists for twenty-one pairs of US Presidents.\n\nAn example of the list is presented here for illustration. Some urban folklorists have postulated that the list provided a way for people to make sense of two tragic events in American history by seeking out patterns. Gardner and others have said that it is relatively easy to find seemingly meaningful patterns relating any two people or events.\n\nCoincidence (not part of the above list) - Both Lincoln and Kennedy were carried in coffins with no pallbearer's handles. Lincoln's body was placed in a plain pine box with no handles. It was carried out of the Petersen house with hands underneath the bottom of the box. Kennedy was placed in a bronze coffin, which wouldn't fit through the Eastern Airlines aircraft door; the pallbearer's handles were forcibly removed to board the plane (Lyndon Johnson boarded Air Force One as the newly sworn President). Esquire Magazine; Manhunt, Swanson (2006).\n\nBuddy Starcher wrote a song recounting many of these coincidences and parallels between the two presidents' careers and deaths entitled \"History Repeats Itself.\" It became a U.S. Top 40 hit for him during the spring of 1966, and reached number two on the Country chart. Cab Calloway also scored a minor chart hit with the song that same year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43734088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43734088", "title": "MRF Challenge", "text": "MRF Challenge\n\nMRF Challenge, is an open-wheel motorsport formula based in India organized by Madras Motor Sports Club.\n\n"}
{"id": "18146777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18146777", "title": "Neuchâtel International Fantastic Film Festival", "text": "Neuchâtel International Fantastic Film Festival\n\nThe Neuchâtel International Fantastic Film Festival (NIFFF) is a Swiss film festival dedicated to fantastic movies. It was created in 2000 and is now renowned internationally as one of the foremost film festivals in the world for genre cinema. The NIFFF defines itself through a rich and diversified programming, constructed around three central axes: Fantastic cinema, Asian cinema and Digital images. The films shown at the Festival are very diversified, ranging from major works by renowned directors to unknown and underground \"films d'auteurs\". Famous fantastic film directors have already honored the NIFFF with their presences, including George A. Romero, Joe Dante, John Landis, Terry Gilliam, Hideo Nakata.\n\nThe NIFFF offers five competitions: an international competition, an Asian competition, a Best Swiss Short Film Competition, a Best European Short Film Competition and a Swiss Video Art Competition entitled Actual Fears and inaugurated in 2008.\n\nSince its creation, the NIFFF has been programmed each year during the first week of July, except in 2001. In 2008, the NIFFF celebrates its eighth edition and counts amongst the major cinematographic events in Switzerland, supported by the Swiss Federal Office of Culture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "853981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=853981", "title": "Opiconsivia", "text": "Opiconsivia\n\nThe Opiconsivia (or Opeconsiva or Opalia) was an ancient Roman religious festival held August 25 in honor of Ops (\"Plenty\"), also known as Opis, a goddess of agricultural resources and wealth. The festival marked the end of harvest, with a mirror festival on December 19 concerned with the storage of the grain.\n\nThe Latin word \"consivia\" (or \"consiva\") derives from \"conserere\" (\"to sow\"). Opis was deemed a chthonic (underworld, inside the earth) goddess who made the vegetation grow. Since her abode was inside the earth, Ops was invoked by her worshipers while sitting, with their hands touching the ground, according to Macrobius (Saturnalia, I:10). \n\nAlthough Ops is a consort of Saturn, she was closely associated with Consus, the protector of grains and subterranean storage bins (silos). Consus is therefore thought to be an alternate name of Saturn in the chthonic aspect as consort. The festival of Consus, the Consualia, was celebrated twice a year, each time preceding that of Ops: once on August 21, after the harvest, and once on December 15, after the sowing of crops was finished. \n\nThe Opiconsivia festival was superintended by the Vestals and the Flamines of Quirinus, an early Sabine god said to be the deified Romulus. Quirinus was absorbed by, and included in, the first and earliest Capitoline Triad, along with Mars—then an agriculture god—and Jupiter. The main priestess at the regia wore a white veil, characteristic of the vestal virgins. A chariot race was performed in the Circus Maximus. Horses and mules, their heads crowned with chaplets made of flowers, also took part in the celebration. \n\nH. H. Scullard, \"Festivals and Ceremonies of the Roman Republic\" (London: Thames and Hudson, 1981), 177-8, 181, 205, 207.\n"}
{"id": "1014696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1014696", "title": "Ould Lammas Fair", "text": "Ould Lammas Fair\n\nThe Auld Lammas Fair is a traditional fair held in Ballycastle, County Antrim, Northern Ireland every year on the last Monday and Tuesday of August. It is associated with the Lammas harvest festival. \n\nThe fair has been running for nearly 400 years, dating back to the 17th century.\n\nVarious goods are traditionally sold at the fair. These include livestock and traditional foods such as Yellowman, a local variant of honeycomb and dulse, a type of edible seaweed.\n\nA ballad written by local shopkeeper and bog-oak carver John Henry MacAuley enhanced the local fame of the fair. MacAuley was also a well known fiddler, but died in 1937 before his song became famous. \n\nOn 28 August 2001 a Royal Ulster Constabulary officer discovered a large incendiary bomb in the centre of Ballycastle whilst the fair was running. After the area was cleared British Army bomb disposal experts defused the device. The attempted attack was initially claimed by the Red Hand Defenders. However, the RUC later suggested that it was carried out by the Ulster Volunteer Force.\n\n"}
{"id": "58018188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58018188", "title": "Pilgrimage of the Relics, Maastricht", "text": "Pilgrimage of the Relics, Maastricht\n\nThe Pilgrimage of the Relics or Maastricht Septennial Pilgrimage () is a seven-yearly Catholic event in the Dutch city of Maastricht. Originating in the Middle Ages, it developed from a pilgrimage to the grave of Saint Servatius into the present-day religious, historical, cultural and commercial enterprise. Highlights in the programme are the displaying or unveiling of the relics in the main churches and secondly, the processions with the town's main relics. The next pilgrimage will take place in 2025.\n\nMaastricht had been an important destination for pilgrims centuries before the first recorded septennial pilgrimage. The first to mention pilgrims paying tribute at the grave of Saint Servatius was Gregory of Tours in the late 6th century. It was at that time that bishop Monulph replaced the wooden grave chapel with a stone basilica. Calendars of saints from the 8th and 9th century make mention of miracles happening at the saint's grave. As the number of pilgrims increased, the original church became too small. It was replaced by ever larger structures, until the current church was built in the 11th century. Throughout the centuries the Church of Saint Servatius acquired many relics, which were housed in precious reliquaries. The indulgences connected to these relics brought in more pilgrims. A French pilgrim calculated in 1453 that in one year in Maastricht one could earn about 800 years reduction of purgatorial punishment. At the same time, it was assumed that a completed Maastricht pilgrimage was rewarded with a plenarary indulgence (full remittance of punishment).\n\nThe other collegiate church in Maastricht, the Church of Our Lady, possessed important relics too. After the First Crusade (1096-99), two major relics of the True Cross were acquired from Constantinopel. One was the so-called Pectoral Cross of Constantine, which was set in a small golden triptych. The other was the Byzantine double cross or Patriarchal cross, presented to the church by Philip of Swabia. Both reliquaries were donated to the pope by a former canon in 1837. They are now in the Treasury of St. Peter's Basilica in Vatican City. Another reason for pilgrims to visit Our Lady's was the relic of the girdle of the Virgin Mary, which remains in the church today.\n\nThere was great rivalry between the two principal churches when it came to attracting pilgrims. More pilgrims meant more income. The Chapter of St Servatius, considering itself the oldest and more powerful institution, made sure that no relics were shown in the open air at Our Lady's. It has been suggested that the ambulatory gallery in the choir of Our Lady's was used for this purpose. Whichever way they showed their relics, it was almost certainly less effective than the spectacular open-air displays at St Servatius'. Over the centuries several disputes arose from this, some were fought at the highest level at the Papal Tribunal. The differences culminated in 1495, when the Chapter of Saint Servatius commissioned a copy of the Patriarchal Cross of Our Lady's.\n\nFor the benefit of the pilgrims two hospitiums were built on the south-west corner of Vrijthof. The Hospitium of Saint Servatius is first mentioned in the 11th century. Next to it stood the Hospitium of Saint James, which was specifically built for pilgrims on their way to Santiago de Compostella. Due to dwindling numbers of pilgrims, both institutions took on other tasks in the 17th century. They were demolished in the early 19th century.\n\nThe Dutch word \"heiligdomsvaart\" (German: \"Heiligtumsfahrt\") means \"journey to the holy relics\". It is probably derived from the older German terms \"Römerfahrt\" and \"Aachener Fahrt\", the medieval journeys or pilgrimages to Rome and Aachen. The Maastricht \"heiligdomsvaart\" as of long was held simultaneously with Aachen and Kornelimünster Abbey. Together they offered some of the best relics to be seen in Europe. A papal bull of 1249 is the oldest document referring to the Maastricht pilgrimage around the traditional dates in mid-July, although the name \"heyldomsvaert\" is not mentioned until 1440. The term used in 1391 was \"heiligdomskermis\" (\"fair of the holy relics\"). The popularity of the Maastricht-Aachen-Kornelimünster pilgrimage reached its zenith in the 15th century when up to 140,000 pilgrims visited these towns in mid-July.\n\nThe septennial pilgrimage in medieval Maastricht was centred around the Church of Saint Servatius, although Our Lady's and other churches undoubtedly benefitted with their indoors activities. The traditional date was one week before and one week after the 16th of July, the feast of the holy bishops Monulph and Gondulph. It is not known when this date became the focal point of the Maastricht pilgrimage but in 1289 auxiliary bishop Bonaventura of Liège offered an indulgence to pilgrims visiting the grave of Saint Servatius around this time of the year. The year in which a septennial pilgrimage took place was a Jubilee, which meant that extra indulgences were granted. The majority of pilgrims aimed to earn indulgences by visiting the grave of Saint Servatius, drinking holy water from the cup of Saint Servatius and attending at least one of the daily relics displays. No indulgences could be obtained without going to confession and doing penance. After fulfilling the requirements pilgrims received a pre-printed confessional certificate. A chaplain would fill in the name of the pilgrim and attach the seal of the church.\n\nIn Maastricht the Collegiate Church of Saint Servatius had the sole right of showing relics in the open air. During the septennial pilgrimage this took place once a day at Vrijthof Square. In the 15th-century so many pilgrims gathered there, that the walls around the square had to be taken down. After celebrating an open-air mass, a selection of the church's relics were shown from the dwarf gallery, the arcaded gallery just below the apse's roof. The dwarf gallery was decorated for the occasion with cloths printed with angels and Saint Servatius' keys.\n\nThe showing of the relics must have been a theatrical event during which many pilgrims were overcome with emotion. Throughout the ceremony loud cries could be heard. Some pilgrims were sitting on rooftops around Vrijthof to get a better view of the relics and to benefit from their exposure. Many took bread, meat and personal objects with them in order to be blessed by the relics. The relics were shown in four groups. Each group was announced with a formula that started with: \"Thou shall be shown...\", followed by a brief description of the objects and a prayer. The fixed order was: 1. the sudarium of Saint Servatius (one of the three \"heavenly cloths\", lost during the Siege of Maastricht of 1579) along with his crozier; 2. the red shroud of Saint Servatius along with his pilgrim's staff; 3. the white cloth that covered the sarcophagus of Saint Servatius, along with his chalice and paten; 4. the reliquary bust of Saint Servatius, the reliquary arm of Saint Thomas and the silver pectoral cross made by Saint Luke for the Virgin Mary. The pilgrims were then invited to visit the grave inside the church and see the other relics on display there. The ceremony was concluded by bell ringing and pilgrims blowing their pilgrim horns.\nThroughout the Middle Ages tens of thousands visited Maastricht during the septennial pilgrimage. Monasteries, hospitals, alms houses and individual citizens offered shelter, as only a limited number could be admitted to the town's official pilgrims' hospitiums. Pilgrims came from all over Europe, notably from the Low Countries, France (Normandy and Brittany in particular, where Saint Servatius was venerated much), England, the Holy Roman Empire (Germany, Austria and Bohemia), Hungary and Scandinavia. After visiting Maastricht many carried on to Aachen and Kornelimünster, or to other pilgrimage sites. The pilgrims were vital for the town's medieval economy. During the septennial pilgrimage the usually strict rules for trading were relaxed. Every citizen could sell food and drink or change currency. Pilgrims were offered a range of religious souvenirs: pilgrim horns made of clay, pilgrim flasks made of white pipe clay and, most of all, pilgrim badges made of tin or lead. In the 16th and 17th century these were gradually replaced by printed images, pilgrim's forms, booklets, medals and flags. The objects were often decorated with images of relics from Maastricht, Aachen and Kornelimünster, which made it easy to sell them in all three places.\n\nThe fourteen days of the Maastricht pilgrimage were known as the \"Freedom of Saint Servatius\". It was a period when normal rules did not apply, resulting in more freedom for citizens and visitors but also in more crime. The start of this period was announced by the town watchmen blowing their buisines. From that moment on no-one could be tried for past offences. There was always a number of pilgrims who had been sent on a pilgrimage as part of a penalty. Breaking the rules during this time was punished with forced pilgrimages (e.g. to Santiago de Compostella) or fines. Magistrates and guilds formed militia that patrolled the streets, especially in areas where many pilgrims gathered. The large concentration of people in the relatively small city of around 15,000 also posed threats of fire and disease. Citizens were obliged to have a bucket of water on their doorstep to help prevent major conflagrations.\n\nThe decline of the Maastricht pilgrimage in the 16th century was a result of the Protestant Reformation, as well as the ensuing wars of religion and outbreaks of the plague. This affected Maastricht as much as many other places in north-western Europe. The 1489 and 1552 pilgrimages were cancelled due to threat of war. During the Siege of Maastricht (1579) the three \"heavenly cloths\" went missing, whereas the reliquary bust of Saint Servatius was largely destroyed. Maastricht became a heavily defended Catholic bulwark. By 1608 attendance to the pilgrimage had dropped to 13,000. After the Capture of Maastricht by the Protestant Dutch Republic in 1632, a ban on processions and other religious manifestations in public was issued, meaning the end of the traditional \"Heiligdomsvaart\". The pilgrimages of 1655 and 1662 took place inside the Church of Saint Servatius. After 1706 no septennial pilgrimages took place until the revival of the tradition in the 19th century.\n\nDuring the French Annexation (1794-1814) the religious chapters in Maastricht were abolished. For some years both collegiate churches were used as military arsenals and horse stables. The church treasures suffered great losses in this period. Many objects of gold and silver were melted down in order to pay for war taxes. After the French period neglect continued. Some of the medieval reliquaries were sold to collectors or just given away. The church of Saint Servatius lost the four panels that belonged to the chest of Saint Servatius, as well as its \"Vera Icon\" by Van Eyck. Our Lady's lost its Byzantine Cross and various other objects (see above). Few regretted these losses at the time. With the disappearance of the pilgrimages and the religious institutions that had guarded these objects for centuries, they had become meaningless to most.\n\nFrom the mid-19th century Catholicism began to flourish once again in Maastricht and elsewhere in the Netherlands. Catholics' self-esteem was boosted by the reestablishment of the episcopal hierarchy in the Netherlands in 1853. Catholics now wanted to express their faith in public. In 1867 Joannes Paredis, bishop of Roermond, reinstated the feast of the holy bishops of Maastricht. Four years later he introduced the feast in honour of the relics of all saints. Many relics that had lost their containers during the French period were given new reliquaries, predominantly in the Gothic Revival style. At the same time, a renewed interest in medieval art became apparent. An important step in the reassessment of Maastricht's religious patrimony was the publication of Bock and Willemsen's illustrated catalogue of the church treasures in 1872. The French edition of 1873 moreover contained additional texts about the medieval pilgrimages, which may have contributed to the revival of the tradition one year later. Also in 1873, the Treasury of the Basilica of St Servatius, after extensive restoration works led by Dutch architect Pierre Cuypers, opened to the public. Part of the opening ceremony was a short procession with several reliquaries that went from the old treasury via Vrijthof to the new treasury. The procession with three bishops and over 50 priests was illegal as it clearly ignored the ban on processions that was included in the 1848 Dutch Constitution. Catholics in the Netherlands were impressed; others made fun of the \"Maastricht cortège of relics\".\n\nThe success of the 1873 procession stimulated F.X. Rutten, dean of St Servatius', to reinstate the septennial pilgrimage in 1874. Papal permission was obtained from Pope Pius IX, who also revived the medieval plenarary indulgence for those who completed the pilgrimage. The medieval custom of showing the relics from the dwarf gallery was not revived; instead the relics were exhibited in the church and during a procession. The relics remained on view for two weeks on a pedestal in the choir of St Servatius'. The route of the procession was the same as the previous year: leaving the church from the south-east portal, via Vrijthof and Keizer Karelplein to the north portal and the treasury in the cloisters. This time judicial action was taken against dean Rutten. The case went on for years; the dean persisted despite losing every single case. This and similar cases led to heated discussions in Dutch Parliament. It did not stop the Catholics taking to the streets: in 1878 six processions were held in Maastricht and in 1881 the second 'modern' pilgrimage went ahead.\n\nIn the course of the 20th century Catholics were no longer regarded as a threat in the Netherlands, partly due to the fact that they had evolved from being a religious minority to a majority. Whereas processions and pilgrimages were previously regarded by non-Catholics as \"catholic superstition\" and \"folklore\", there was now a certain curiosity in this sensual approach to faith. Some Catholics regarded this new 'acceptance' with scepticism.\nDuring the 1909 pilgrimage displaying of relics took place in the two main churches, as well as in the parish church of Wyck, where the so-called Black Christ of Wyck could be venerated. Masses were celebrated by the archbishop of Utrecht and the bishop of Liège, indicating the high profile the pilgrimage by then had achieved within the Roman Catholic Church. In 1916 the Saint Servatius Play, a musical piece that intended to visualise the ancient legend, was performed in the open-air in Vrijthof. The play or variations on it were performed until recently. Another pre-19th-century element of the pilgrimage that was revived in the 20th century was the playful spectacle The Storming of the Castle, which took place on the river Meuse in 1930, 1937 and 1983.\n\nSince 1937 the task of organising the septennial pilgrimage lies with the \"Vereniging Het Graf van Sint Servaas\" (Society of the Grave of Saint Servatius). The society aims to promote the city of Maastricht as a catholic centre and a pilgrimage site. Also in 1937, an old tradition was reintroduced to allow the statues of Our Lady, Star of the Sea and the Black Christ of Wyck in the procession. Several other non-reliquary objects (mainly statues of saints) have been admitted since. The 1944 pilgrimage was cancelled because of World War II. It was postponed until 1948, thus breaking the seven-yearly cycle as well as no longer being synchronized with Aachen. It also meant that participants from Aachen were able to join the Maastricht procession. In 1955 the Bust of Charlemagne came over from Aachen, accompanied by many German pilgrims (among them cardinal Josef Frings). In 1969 the reliquary chest of Saint Remaclus was brought in from Stavelot and that of Saint Gummarus from Lier; in 1976 Saint Lambert's bust visited from Liège, Saint Ursula's shrine from Cologne and other reliquaries from Oldenzaal, Visé, Aachen and Burtscheid.\n\nStarting in 1969 the traditional dates around mid-July were abandoned because too many people were away on holiday. Initially the dates were changed to late August, early September; later to late May, early June. In 1988 a partnership with other pilgrimage sites within the Euregion Meuse-Rhine was initiated. Unlike the medieval partnership with Aachen and Kornelimünster, the pilgrimages are scheduled in such a way that there is no competition between the towns. 1990 saw a dip in numbers of visitors, possibly a result of tensions in the Diocese of Roermond under bishop Joannes Gijsen. In 1997 the theme was \"Where are you?\" with around 100,000 visitors. In 2004 the theme was \"We are the time\". It was the first time an extensive cultural programme was added to the pilgrimage. The 2011 theme was \"Towards the Light\". Around 175.000 attended some of the events. The 55th (modern) edition took place from 24 May until 3 June 2018. Its theme was \"Do good and do not look back\". The next Maastricht pilgrimage takes place in 2025.\n\nThe modern \"Heiligdomsvaart\" usually lasts 11 days. The centre of most activities is the Basilica of St Servatius. The entrance to the church and treasury is free of charge at this time (normally there is a fee). During the pilgrimage the church can be accessed via three portals, two of which are generally not in use. The small crypt, providing access to the grave of Saint Servatius, is also open at certain hours. The reliquary chest of Saint Servatius, locally known as the \"Noodkist\" ('Chest of Distress'), is permanently exhibited on the choir stairs. A secondary focal point during the pilgrimage is the Basilica of Our Lady. To a lesser degree involved are the other churches in central Maastricht, as well as a number of (Catholic) schools, senior citizens homes and cultural institutions. The administrational centre of the pilgrimage doubles as an information point for both pilgrims and tourists.\n\nThe opening ceremony begins with a short service in the open air at the Spring of Saint Servatius in the Jeker valley, a few miles south of Maastricht. The service includes drinking water from the spring that, according to legend, sprung where Saint Servatius tapped his crozier on the ground. The opening ceremony continues at the Basilica of St Servatius, where the bust of Saint Servatius is carried around the church in procession, after which it makes its grand entry via the South Portal (\"Bergportaal\"), normally reserved for royal visitors. This is followed by a Pontifical High Mass, celebrated by the bishop of Roermond, the dean of Maastricht and other priests. During this mass the \"Noodkist\" is brought into the church and placed on a platform on the choir steps, where it remains for the entire period. During the next 11 days, high masses are celebrated every day, often aimed at certain groups. In 2018 masses and services were held for members of the Taizé Community, the Community of Sant'Egidio, the Community of the Crucified and Risen Love, the Society of St Gregory, the Order of the Holy Sepulchre and the monks of St. Benedictusberg Abbey. Other groups that received a special welcome in the church included pilgrims to the shrine of Saint Gerlach in Houthem, pilgrims from Sint Oedenrode and Hasselt, members of the Armenian, Philippine and Antillian communities in Maastricht, as well as children of primary schools in Maastricht. Furthermore, prayer services, Liturgies of the Hours, lectures and other spiritual activities are organised, some of which take place in the crypt, the Keizerzaal, or other unusual locations. Throughout the 11-day pilgrimage there are priests available for confession or personal counsel.\n\nThe ceremonies of the displaying of the relics in the two main churches constitute the spiritual highlight of the pilgrimage and refer – more so than the processions or other activities – to its medieval origin. The modern way of showing the relics is not from the dwarf gallery but inside the churches, first in the Basilica of Our Lady, followed by the Basilica of St Servatius. Compared to the medieval practice, more relics (also, different ones) are shown nowadays.\n\nThe relics display in the Basilica of Our Lady starts with a liturgical entrance procession in which the main relics from the treasury are brought into the church. While groups of carriers walk up the central aisle toward the choir stairs, the \"Litany of the Saints\" is sung. The carriers position themselves in a semicircle in the chancel area in front of the ambulatory. The service starts with a reading from the Gospel, after which the priest announces the relics with the medieval formula \"Thou shall be shown...\" The relics are shown in five groups. Each time a group has been announced the carriers step forward near the edge of the choir steps, then lifting up the reliquaries for a few seconds, so they can be seen by all. At no point are the relics taken out of their containers. A prayer is said and the carriers return to their position in the semicircle, after which the next group of relics is announced. In 2018 the order of showing was:\nAfter the blessing, given with the cross reliquary, a procession is formed once more, taking the relics to the north transept where they are exhibited for about an hour. Members of the congregation can then approach the relics, touch them, take photographs and venerate them.\n\nMore or less the same procedure is followed in the Basilica of St Servatius, with some differences. The formula \"Thou shall be shown...\" is sung here by a cantor. Each time a group of relics is shown, a short fanfare sounds from the west choir of the church, adding to the dramatic effect. Also, after having been shown, the relics do not return to the chancel area, but are immediately taken down the choir steps into the side chapels. Here they remain, guarded by members of confraternities. This means that, unlike at Our Lady's, the chancel is virtually empty at the end of the service. It is remarkable that the arm reliquary of Saint Thomas and most of the Servatiana (see below: 'List of devotional objects/Servatiana'), which were so pivotal in the medieval relics display, are no longer shown. The current order of showing is:\nAfter the conclusion of the ceremony the relics are exhibited in the side aisles and chapels, in order to be admired and venerated. Members of various confraternities and guilds keep watch over them.\n\nThe two outdoor processions – not to be confounded with the liturgical processions inside the churches – are perhaps the most iconic aspect of the Maastricht pilgrimage. The colourful parades on both Sundays are watched by ten thousands of people, as well as being televised. Additionally, there are a number of smaller processions, such as the opening procession, the 'Star Procession' (departing from various parish churches), and the children's procession (with self-made reliquary shrines).\nThe route of the main procession on the first Sunday starts in Wyck and passes over the Saint Servatius Bridge. A week later the starting point is in Jekerkwartier from where it goes to Onze Lieve Vrouweplein and along the Meuse. Both routes continue via Markt towards Vrijthof. Here, in the Basilica of St Servatius, a short service is held, ending with the singing of the \"Hymn of Saint Servatius\". In Vrijthof, and sometimes in Markt or Sint Pieterstraat, the procession can be watched from a spectator stand. The first rows at the Vrijthof stand are usually reserved for guests such as bishops, cabinet ministers, the governor of Limburg, the mayor of Maastricht and other dignitaries. Television recordings usually take place at Vrijthof.\n\nSince the 1960s, the organizers of the processions have found it increasingly difficult to involve local participants, especially children and young adults. As a result, traditional groups of altar servers, choir boys, scouting groups and 'brides' (young women dressed in white) have largely disappeared. The same has happened to Catholic women's associations and workers' associations. Their place has now been taken by non-religious, historical and folkloristic groups, or in some cases by religious groups from elsewhere (e.g. the Singing Virgins of Tongeren).\n\nAbout half of the participants in the processions are members of confraternities, carriers guilds or other groups that are involved in carrying and escorting the holy objects assigned to them. The Confraternity of Saint Servatius for instance is responsible for the safety of the reliquary chest of Saint Servatius (or \"Noodkist\"), while the Saint Servatius Guild is concerned with the bust of Saint Servatius. Other groups take care of the bust of Saint Lambert, the busts of Saint Monulph and Saint Gondulph, the statue of Our Lady, Star of the Sea, or other statues. The larger objects are carried on a processional litter (comparable to a \"paso\" in Spanish processions but usually smaller), decorated with flowers. The carriers are dressed formally (in morning dress or white tie) or wear pseudo-liturgical tunics. In order to move the larger litters usually two teams of 12 or 16 carriers are needed. Other members carry processional lanterns or poles decorated with confraternity medals. Smaller objects are carried by single participants, previously often by priests or nuns, nowadays mostly by seminarists or other laymen. They usually wear white gloves and/or hold the objects with the wide sleeves of their gowns.\n\nSince the 1960s or 70s a theme is chosen for each edition of the pilgrimage. In the processions, the theme provides a guideline for those groups that attempt to present the Gospel to an increasingly non-religious audience. In 2018 the theme \"Do good and do not look back\" was presented by several local amateur theatre groups. Some participants reenacted themes from the Old and New Testament, others focussed on Catholic themes like Saint Servatius, Pope Francis and the Holy Sacraments. A group of students from the Roman Catholic seminaries of Rolduc and Liège carried reproductions of a painting by the Master of Alkmaar, illustrating the Seven Works of Mercy. As an answer to this, members of the Protestant Church in the Netherlands carried drawings by school children with the same theme in a contemporary context.\n\nAs there have been less participants from local churches in recent years, there is more room for other groups, from other denominations, from other cultural backgrounds or from other towns. In 2018 there were local representatives of the Protestant Church in the Netherlands (see above), the Russian Orthodox Church, the Armenian Apostolic Church, the Philippine community (with an \"Ave Maria\" theme), the Antillian community (with a gospel group), the Order of the Holy Sepulchre, the Order of Saint Lazarus, the OSMTH Order of the Knights Templar, the Bund der St. Sebastianus Schützenjugend (with the \"Aachener Friedenskreuz\" or Aachen Peace Cross) and the Sisters of the Poor Child Jesus (with a banner commemorating the beatification of their founder, Clara Fey).\n\nChurch choirs, marching bands, fanfare orchestras, drum bands, guilds of flag throwers and folkloristic militias (Dutch: \"schutterijen\") have been part of religious processions in this part of Europe for a long time. In the \"Heiligdomsvaart\" processions the Basilica Choir (the main choir of Our Lady's) accompanies the statue of the Star of the Sea, while the Cappella Sancti Servatii (the choir of St Servatius') walks in front of the bust of Saint Servatius. A position of honour is given to the marching band that walks behind the \"Noodkist\", thus closing the procession. On the first Sunday in 2018 this was the Royal Harmonie Sainte Cécile of Eijsden; on the second Sunday it was the Harmonie Sint Petrus en Paulus from the Maastricht neighbourhood of Wolder.\n\nReadings, concerts, theatre performances, film screenings and exhibitions take place at various locations around the city throughout the pilgrimage. Most of these activities are connected to the over-all theme. In 2018 there were plays and concerts in various churches: Saint John's, Saint Lambert's, Saint Theresia's, the Sacred Heart Church (Church of the Dome) as well as the cloisters of St Servatius'. Films were shown in the open air in front of the church of St. Peter-Beneden. Theme exhibitions took place in the cloisters of the basilicas, the east crypt of Our Lady, the Dominican Church, the Centre Céramique cultural centre, the Vrijthof Theatre and the Bonnefantenmuseum. The exhibition \"Copes\" in the Bonnefantenmuseum showed historical copes, as well as contemporary designs by local designers of Fashionclash.\n\nIn the septennial pilgrimages a range of devotional objects take centre stage, foremost the relics of Saint Servatius. Some objects are very old and are part of the local or national patrimony. Not every relic, reliquary or statue of a saint is shown during the \"Heiligdomsvaart\" pilgrimage. There are hundreds of objects in the treasuries of the main churches, which requires selection. For conservational reasons some fragile objects that traditionally have been part of the pilgrimage are no longer shown.\n\nSince the earliest records the so-called 'Servatiana' have played a pivotal role in the Maastricht pilgrimage. These are objects believed to be the personal belongings of Saint Servatius. In the septennial pilgrimage they were shown from the dwarf gallery. Some of the Servatiana were lost over time. Remaining in the treasury are: the key of Saint Servatius, the pectoral cross of Saint Servatius, his seal, his cup, his pilgrim's staff, his crozier, his chalice, his paten and his portable altar. Due to their size and frailty their role has diminished in recent years. An additional reason for this could be that art historians have argued that, with the exception of the cup of Saint Servatius, none of these objects are old enough to have been the personal belongings of someone who lived in the 4th century. These days only the key and the pectoral cross are shown during the relics display in the church; none of the Servatiana are included in the processions. A copy of the pilgrim's staff is on permanent display in the small crypt which gives access to the grave of Saint Servatius.\n\nThe four major devotional statues in Maastricht, locally known at the City or Municipal Devotions (Dutch: \"stadsdevoties\"), are religious objects that have been venerated in Maastricht for a long time. They are: the statue of Our Lady, Star of the Sea, the Black Christ of Wyck, the bust of Saint Servatius and the bust of Saint Lambert. During the Maastricht pilgrimage they take part in processions and various other religious activities.\n\nThe statue of Our Lady, Star of the Sea (usually referred to as: the Star of the Sea) is probably the best known and most popular of the Maastricht devotions. It is a 15th-century statue of Mary with the baby child Jesus in the style of the German \"schöne Madonnen\". It has a long tradition of being included in processions, first with the Maastricht Minorites, after 1837 with the parish of Our Lady. Even now it participates in around ten processions each year. For the shorter processions a small processional litter is used that requires four carriers. For the longer processions, as in the septennial pilgrimage, a much larger steel structure is used. Twelve carriers are required to take this litter on their shoulders. The larger structure is covered in white damask and decorated with flowers. The carriers are members of the Carriers Guild of the Star of the Sea (Dutch: \"Dragersgilde Sterre der Zee\"). The guild members wear tunics, some dark-blue and red, others light-blue and white, decorated with guild medals. They all wear white gloves. At regular intervals one team of carriers replaces the other. Members of the Confraternity of the Star of the Sea (Dutch: \"Broederschap Sterre der Zee\") escort the processional litter, wearing white tie and a black cloak with a six-pointed star on it. Some carry processional lanterns or processional poles with fraternity plaques. The statue of the Star of the Sea has no role in the relics display in the church, although this ceremony is traditionally concluded by the hymn \"O Star of the Sea\".\n\nThe 'Black Christ of Wyck' is a large 13th-century corpus of dark walnut that was once part of a crucifix. For centuries it was kept in the monastery of the White Nuns (Dutch: \"Wittevrouwenklooster\") in Vrijthof, where it attracted pilgrims mainly from Central Europe. After the dissolution of the monasteries the statue was given to the parish church of St Martin in Wyck. In 1813 the Confraternity of the Holy Cross (Dutch: \"Broederschap van het Heilig Kruis\") was founded, which in 1963 had around 2,000 members. Members of the confraternity carry the Black Christ in processions on a large processional litter similar to the one used for the Star of the Sea. Their tunics are red and black, matching their processional banner.\n\nThe reliquary bust of Saint Servatius as we know it presumably is the second or third bust of Maastricht's patron saint. A previous bust dating back to around 1400 was shown from the dwarf gallery to pilgrims in Vrijthof square. It was largely destroyed during the Siege of 1579. The new bust was commissioned by the besieger, Alexander Farnese, Duke of Parma, whose coat of arms is on the pedestal. The silver-coated and partly gilded bust is a major artistic work in the Treasury of Saint Servatius. It contains a large fragment of the skull of the saint. The bust is also a cultural icon of the Maastricht pilgrimage. Images of the bust appear on flags, banners and printed material. The bust takes central stage at the opening ceremony of the pilgrimage (see: 'Programme/Masses and other services'). Until the 1970s, the brothers of the Beyart Monastery (Brothers of the Immaculate Conception of Mary, or Brothers of Maastricht) carried the bust in processions; since 1976 members of the Saint Servatius Guild have taken that task (literally) upon their shoulders. Members of the guild wear two-part dark blue tunics, white gloves and a green ribbon around their neck with a guild medal. As is the case with the Star of the Sea statue, two processional litters are used, one for short or indoor processions, the other one for longer trips. A plastic slip-over is used to protect the bust in bad weather. \n\nThe reliquary bust of Saint Lambert is relative young in comparison to the afore-mentioned objects. It was made by the Utrecht silversmiths Edelsmidse Brom for the parish church of St Lambert in 1938-40. This happened after an ambitious parish priest obtained a relic of Saint Lambert, Maastricht's last bishop and the only one who was born there. The relic was picked up in Liège and brought back in triumph by 2,000 parishioners in two extra trains in 1937. The new bust was clearly modelled after the bust of Saint Servatius. It instantly gained popularity, to such a degree that it was included in the Maastricht Devotions. Saint Lambert's church closed in 1985 due to constructional problems and the parish merged with that of Saint Anne. Since 2004 the bust is kept in the modern church of Saint Anne, where in 2018 it was given a separate chapel. The bust of Saint Lambert is carried in processions on either one of two processional litters, depending on the occasion, much like the previously-mentioned objects. The small litter is dressed in green; the larger litter in white damask and decorated with flowers. Members of the Carriers Guild of Saint Lambert (Dutch: \"Dragersgilde St. Lambertus\") wear green and yellow tunics; around their neck a chain with an embroidered medallion with an image of the bust and the five-pointed star of Maastricht.\n\nDespite the fact that the emphasis in modern pilgrimages has somewhat shifted away from saints and relics worship, the historical and religious significance of the objects concerned makes their presence paramount. Showing the reliquaries remains a central feature of the Maastricht pilgrimage. Apart from the main reliquary of Saint Servatius (the \"Noodkist\"), these include a number of reliquary busts of apostles and bishops, as well as reliquaries and statues of other locally venerated saints. As mentioned before, many reliquaries are considered too fragile to leave their protected environment. This applies to most of the Servatiana, the alb of Saint Servatius, the cloak of Saint Lambert, several \"staurothèques\" (cross reliquaries), all the reliquary horns in the treasuries (except for the Viking horn in Our Lady's), all the ivory and enamelled caskets, as well as the silver reliquary arm of Saint Thomas.\n\nThe reliquary chest of Saint Servatius, often – incorrectly – referred to as the Shrine of Saint Servatius, in Dutch usually referred to as the \"Noodkist\" ('Chest of Distress'), is a 12th-century chest that contains the bodily remains of bishop Servatius of Maastricht-Tongeren. The wooden chest with elaborate gilded copper reliefs, champlevé enamels and precious stones is the main treasure of the Basilica of St Servatius and arguably the most important medieval object in the Netherlands. Its significance as a major product of Mosan metalwork has been recognised internationally. For centuries the \"Noodkist\" was the centre of veneration of Saint Servatius in Maastricht, receiving its nickname from the custom of taking it out in procession in times of distress (first mentioned in 1409). Not much is known about its role in the medieval pilgrimage practices. For obvious reasons it could not be shown from the dwarf gallery. Normally it stood on a stone altar behind the high altar, covered by a \"capsa\", a painted wooden box. During the pilgrimage the capsa was removed and pilgrims were given access to the chancel. They were even allowed to touch the chest.\n\nAfter the revival of the pilgrimage in the 19th century, the chest has been part of most festivities. Nowadays, it is permanently exhibited on the choir stairs (which in fact are situated in the crossing). When the church is open to the public, the chest is permanently guarded by two or four members of the Confraternity of Saint Servatius. This association was founded in 1916 and currently has around 50 members. Inside the church they wear tunics, either yellow and red, or black and red. The fraternity members also escort the chest when it leaves the church in processions, which normally only happens once a year (Saint Servatius Day, 13 May). The brotherhood then wears morning dress with red and white rosettes and fraternity medals. The processional litter is custom-designed featuring a steel structure with flexible parts that can be adjusted on the shoulders of the carriers. There are normally two teams of sixteen fraternity brothers involved in carrying the chest. The lower part of the frame is covered with grey fabric. A perspex box in the shape of the \"Noodkist\" covers it, regardless of the weather.\n\nAmongst the many reliquaries and devotional objects in Maastricht are a dozen reliquary busts. The busts discussed here predominantly date from the 19th century, made of wood and then polychromed. They replace the silver or gilded busts that were lost in the French Period. There are a few remarkable 'doubles'. Both the Basilica of Our Lady and the Basilica of St Servatius own busts of Monulph and Gondulph, the 6th-century bishops of Maastricht often associated with one another. All four busts are shown during the relics display in the churches but only one set joins the outdoor processions (the set owned by St Servatius'). They are carried on relatively small litters by members of the Guild of Saint Monulph and Saint Gondulph, which also is a bell-ringers guild. Naturally, both churches own a bust of Saint Servatius. The one in Our Lady's is merely used for the relics display in the church. The same goes for Saint Batholomew's and Saint Hubert's busts, also in Our Lady's. St Servatius' Basilica has two busts of Saint Lambert (one silver bust is on loan from the Rijksmuseum and never leaves the treasury), which in fact makes three, together with the bust in St Anne's. St Servatius' also owns a bust of Saint Amandus, another bishop of Maastricht. Regular 'visiting' busts from other churches and other towns are the bust of Saint Anthony of Padua (from the Maastricht parish of Scharn), the bust of Saint Amelberga (from Susteren Abbey), the silver bust of Saint Gerlach (from the parish of Houthem-Sint Gerlach).\n\nNote: the gilded and silver-coated busts of Saint Servatius and Saint Lambert are discussed in detail above (see: 'Maastricht Devotions').\n\nA few reliquaries do not fit into the categories above but are nevertheless important enough to be included in the pilgrimage. A distinguished piece – even though it is a 15th-century copy of a much older cross – is the Patriarchal Cross of the Basilica of St Servatius. It contains several large pieces of the True Cross. It is carried by a priest as a processional cross at the entrance procession during the ceremony of the relics display. It is however too fragile to participate in any other processions. That would perhaps also apply to the reliquary with the girdle of Saint Mary in Our Lady's Basilica, were it not that this relic is considered too vital to be excluded. The core of the reliquary is medieval (first mentioned in 1286) but the outer case was replaced in the 19th century. Both inside the church and in the outdoor processions it is carried and escorted by a group of women in light-blue dresses. Two women carry the processional litter; the others hold red roses.\n\nSince the Second World War, a number of important relics have 'visited' Maastricht (see: 'History/20th century'). In 2018 there were busts from Houthem and Susteren (mentioned above), a cross reliquary from Dordrecht, a reliquary of Saint Lidwina from Schiedam, and a reliquary of Saint Cassius and Florentius (martyrs of the Theban Legion) from Bonn.\n\nBesides the four main devotional statues (see: 'Maastricht Devotions'), there are a few other statues of saints that are included in the Maastricht pilgrimage. Some Maastricht parishes are represented in the pilgrimage processions with their patron saint, each with their own carriers guild. A 15th-century statue of Saint Peter hails from the parish of Sint Pieter (in fact two parishes: one at the bottom of Sint-Pietersberg, the other one halfway up the hill). The parish of Saint Anthony of Padua in Scharn is represented both with a bust (mentioned above) and a 17th-century(?) statue of the saint. Nearby Amby participates with a statue of Saint Walpurga. A special guest in 2018 was the statue of Our Lady, Cause of Our Joy, from the Basilica of Our Lady in Tongeren.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13298228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13298228", "title": "Plane Daffy", "text": "Plane Daffy\n\nPlane Daffy is a 1944 Warner Bros. cartoon directed by Frank Tashlin, starring Daffy Duck. It's a World War II propaganda short that depicts Daffy as a messenger battling a female Nazi spy and eventually being confronted with Adolf Hitler, Joseph Goebbels and Hermann Göring.\n\nOne after another of a company of carrier pigeons fall prey to the seductive wiles of \"Queen of the Spies\": Hatta Mari. The alarm is raised at pigeon headquarters when Pigeon 13 (a Mortimer Snerd-esque yokel similar to Beaky Buzzard) goes AWOL with the female Nazi spy bird. He reveals all his secrets (after she slipped him a mickey). In shame, Pigeon 13 departs to commit suicide, although after an off-screen gunshot is heard, he briefly returns to note \"I \"missed\".\"\n\nLater, self-described woman-hater Daffy Duck volunteers for the next mission. Hatta tries to seduce him by hiking up her skirt to reveal her shapely leg and kissing him full on the lips twice. The first kiss electrocutes Daffy and melts him like butter, but the second kiss electrocutes Hatta Mari having the same effect on her. Daffy ultimately resists her charms, but swallows his secret message when the temptress corners him. After a frenetic battle, she x-rays Daffy and broadcasts the supposed secret (\"Hitler is a stinker\") to Hitler himself. Outraged, Hitler declares \"Dat ist no military secret!\" Goebbels and Göring concur -- \"Ja. Everybody knows \"dat\"!\"—then shoot themselves in the heads after receiving Hitler’s angry glare. Daffy Duck then concludes the cartoon by saying \"They lose more darn ‘Nutzis’ that way,\" and then going into one of his famous bouncing fits whooping.\n\n\nThis short is fully restored on the \"\" and \"Essential Daffy Duck\" DVD sets. This short can also be found on the 1989 MGM Home Video VHS release \"\", although unrestored. It can also be found on \"The Golden Age of Looney Tunes\" LaserDisc sets and .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55152371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55152371", "title": "Police abuse of sex workers in the United States", "text": "Police abuse of sex workers in the United States\n\nPolice are often a significant source of abuse for sex workers, particularly poor sex workers. Greater exposure to the police often means more experience of police abuse; one study found that sex workers with greater police oversight were more likely to be obliged to provide free sexual services to the police than sex workers with less police oversight. For some groups of sex workers in some locations in the U.S., police are the primary source of violence. Police may be the most abusive towards sex workers who have experienced the most victimization from other sources; a study found that sex workers who had been manipulated, coerced, or forced into sex work were more likely to suffer police abuse than sex workers who chose to enter sex work. \n\nPolice abuse can have long lasting consequences; when police falsely arrest someone for prostitution, the resulting criminal record may make it difficult for that person to find jobs or get housing. Incarceration and court attendance for false charges can disrupt efforts to pursue careers outside of sex work, as when a student misses classes. Seemingly innocuous actions can affect safety; when officers tell sex workers to \"move along\", the workers often end up in areas where they feel less safe. When police target an HIV+ person for repeated arrests, they may prevent the person from going to scheduled appointments with health care providers, and jail disrupts medication routines. And sometimes abuse creates physical harm that is immediate and intentional, as when police officers physically assault a sex worker without evidence of crime and without making an arrest.\n\nThis article lists government investigations, research reports, and news articles that describe police abuse of sex workers in the United States, and gives a description of the relevant information from each document.\n\n People in Alaska's Sex Trade: Their Lived Experiences and Policy Recommendations\n\nTara Burns\n\nUndated\n\nThis is a summary report. There's an email address in the report if you want access to all the data or have questions.\n\nExcerpt from a sex worker story:\n\nThe general trend of the study statistics was that the sex workers who had suffered the worst victimization in the past were the ones most likely to be abused by the police.\n\nThe following tables compare the experiences of three groups: all the respondents in the study, the respondents where were manipulated or coerced into sex work, and the respondents who were forced into sex work.\n\nRespondents who were manipulated or coerced into sex work were more likely to attempt to report a crime, but the police were less likely to take their report and more likely to threaten or arrest them.\nRespondents who had been coerced or manipulated into sex work and respondents who had been forced into sex work were more likely to be assaulted by a police officer.\nRespondents who had been coerced or manipulated into sex work and respondents who had been forced into sex work were more likely to be robbed or beaten by a police officer.\n Investigation of the Baltimore City Police Department\n\nU.S. Dept. of Justice, Civil Rights Division\n\n2016-08-10\n\nThe DOJ found \"indications that the BCPD disregards reports of sexual assault by people involved in the sex trade...\" Investigators heard from the community that officers were coercing sexual favors from sex workers. Internal records indicated that this was true and the officers weren't being punished. Prior to the DOJ investigation, an internal investigation by the BCPD found an officer receiving sex from a sex worker in exchange for money and immunity from arrest. The case was closed without any attempt to gather more evidence, interview the police officer, or prosecute the officer. Cases were opened for the same officer a second and third time for the same offense. The witness for the third case died before she could be interviewed, and only then did the BCPD review the officer's phone records and discover that he had sent sexually explicit messages to a number of female sex workers. The officer was allowed to retire. The DOJ found similar cases involving other officers.\n\nDecker et al\n\n2013\n\nThe primary form of police abuse was coercive sex, through the threat of arrest. In some cases the officer received the sexual service and arrested the sex worker anyway.\n\n Investigation of the Chicago Police Department\n\nU.S. Dept. of Justice, Civil Rights Division and United States Attorney's Office, Northern District of Illinois\n\n2017-01-13\n\nInvestigators found a video of police beating and threatening a sex worker while she was handcuffed and kneeling.\n\nLevitt and Venkatesh\n\nSeptember 2007\n\nThis is a working paper that was never published, as far as I know. However, the PDF file is freely available and some of the results are discussed in Levitt and Dubner's book \"SuperFreakonomics\". \n\nThe study compared two neighborhoods, one where none of the women had pimps, and one where all the women had pimps. The women without pimps were more likely to be arrested and three percent of all sexual services were provided to police officers free of charge. The women with pimps were less likely to be arrested and didn't provide free sexual services. Sex workers were more likely to have sex with a police officer than be arrested by one.\n\nRaphael and Shapiro\n\nAugust 2002\n\nTwenty four percent of street-based sex workers had been raped by a police officer. Twenty percent had experienced other sexual assault from police officers. Women doing survival sex and women in drug houses experienced a lot of violence from police. Thirty percent of exotic dancers who had been raped were raped by police, and twenty percent of the sexual violence they experienced was committed by police. Twenty five percent of escorts had been robbed by a police officer. Eighteen percent of escorts had been forced to masturbate a police officer.\n\nTorrez and Paz\n\n2012\n\nThis is a survey of bad encounters experienced by young people in the sex trade and street economy. Bad encounters were divided into three categories: violence, harassment, and refusal to help. The largest source of both harassment and violence was the category of police, which included the Chicago Police Department, the FBI, and security guards in schools. Sexual violence by police made up 11% of all bad encounters.\n\nOne of the main findings was that institutional violence made individual violence worse. When girls suffered harm and sought help, the system they were seeking help from often did more harm. An example was a girl being arrested when she tried to file a report for rape. Or this:\n\nAnother finding was that bad encounters increase when institutions work together. In over 40% of bad encounters with police, another institution was involved. Young people run away from hospitals, foster care, and other service systems because they are physically, emotionally, or sexually harmed or neglected. When police forcibly return someone to one of these settings, they place the young person back in the harmful situation they were escaping from.\n\nAn example of police working with another institution to scare a person away from getting help:\n\nThe result was that the person never got the medical help they needed because of gender discrimination and fear of being put in a psych ward.\n\nThe researchers found that police frequently sexually assaulted youth in the sex trade. The following story, sex followed by arrest, was repeated many times:\n\nSometimes it was worse.\n\nYoung trans women profiled as prostitutes was another common story.\n\nFrom the point of view of the young people in the study, the transition to an anti-trafficking regime hasn't made much difference.\n\nAnd this:\n\n Experiences of Youth in the Sex Trade in Las Vegas\n\nWagner, et al\n\nMarch 2016\n\nThe sample consists of one hundred sixty nine respondents between the ages of thirteen and twenty four.\n\nOne respondent was given the choice between arrest and doing something \"disgusting\". She wouldn't tell the researcher what she was asked to do, but she told the other police officers at the station about it and they laughed at her.\n\nA respondent was asked by an officer to show her breasts in order to avoid arrest. Another respondent had charges dropped because of police misconduct; the officer who arrested her had her perform oral sex on him.\n\n Experiences of Youth in the Sex Trade in Miami\n\nMaurrasse, et al\n\nMarch 2016\n\nThe sample was two hundred sixty four people between the ages of thirteen and twenty four, collected using RDS.\n\nOne respondent was arrested because she refused to have sex with the officers who arrested her. Another was asked by an officer for sex, but she was afraid it was a set up and said no.\n\n Investigation of the New Orleans Police Department\n\nU.S. Dept. of Justice, Civil Rights Division\n\n2011-03-16\n\nInvestigators heard complaints that police where targeting transwomen for prostitution arrests, and sometimes fabricating evidence.\n\nHuman Rights Watch\n\n2013-12\n\nSurvey respondents said that police profiled transgender people as sex workers and subjected them to verbal abuse and sexual misconduct, including demands for sex in exchange for leniency. Police were arresting people for solicitation if they carried condoms. Even trans sex workers who weren't arrested for carrying condoms saw it happen to others and where afraid to carry condoms. Some police officers used possession of condoms to coerce trans sex workers into providing free sexual services. \n\nPeople who tested positive for HIV while in jail were visited by an HIV task force that scheduled appointments at a clinic. However, many people were rearrested before their scheduled appointment. One woman was arrested ten times in three years, preventing her from going to any scheduled appointments to receive care for her HIV infection during that period. Jail interrupts taking medication on a regular basis.\n\n Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children in New York City, Volume I\n\nCurtis et al\n\nDecember 2008\n\nTransgender youth reported being picked up for prostitution or loitering for prostitution when they weren't working. One eighteen year old transgender youth reported being extorted for sex by police officers eight times. Once arrested, transgender youth were more likely to be sexually exploited by jail staff than cisgender youth were. \n\nTwo quotes from cisgender respondents:\n\nA young woman described going to the police to help another girl with an abusive pimp, only to be arrested.\n\nGragg, et al\n\n2007-04-18\n\nThis study covered NYC as well as a few upstate counties. Most of the data came from NYC.\n\nPolice officers propositioned underage youth and made lewd comments. Most female youth in the study reported trading sex to avoid arrest. Pimps were not arrested or received less jail time than the youth that worked with them, even when one of the youths was identified as fourteen years old.\n\nThukral, et al\n\n2003\n\nAbuse varied by location and police officer. Women were more likely to be arrested or ticketed in Brooklyn. Interactions with police in the Bronx were more likely to involve off-duty officers. However, a white woman in the Bronx reported that the police targeted her because she was white, telling her that she was making white people look bad. In Bushwick police harassment was so bad that a service organization was forced to change its location to protect its outreach staff. Latinas reported the worst harassment, including name-calling, stalking, and throwing food. A couple of women based in Bushwick reported daily harassment that caused them to avoid leaving their homes.\n\nExamples of police language: \n\nA transwoman said she was subjected to constant harassment, and the officers who harassed her were the ones who wanted \"oral sex on the side.\"\n\nThirty percent of the respondents reported threats of violence from the police, and twenty seven percent reported experiencing violence. One respondent said \"I've seen cops get out of a car and beat a girl, and then get back in the car and leave.\" Another said that her greatest fear during arrest was \"not coming home at all.\" The white woman from the Bronx said \"... they throw you on the floor and they step on you...\"\n\nAnother respondent reported seeing officers injure a women in the pelvic area to prevent her from working.\nOne respondent reported that an officer followed her for thirty blocks in his civilian car. Another reported that an officer followed her and warned off clients with his bullhorn. Another reported that an officer felt her breasts and made her expose them as cars were driving by while he wrote a ticket. Some statements made by police officers to sex workers:\n\nSeveral respondents reported having money stolen while being searched or arrested.\n\nA sampling of the false arrest stories:\n\n\n\n\n In New York State's Human Trafficking Intervention Courts, prostitutes might be called victims, but they're still arrested, still handcuffed, and still held in cages.\n\nNo author\n\nNo date\n\nThis is an article from the Vice website. It opens with an ex-sex worker's story of false arrest; when she turned down an undercover officer's offer of money for sex, the police arrested her anyway. Because of being locked up, she missed a day of classes she needed to start a career outside of sex work. She informed the reporter that it's common for new officers to arrest women walking to the park where she was arrested, even though they're not working. One woman was arrested because the police said she was waving while wearing a low cut top and a miniskirt. Her attorney took pictures of her at arraignment wearing a jacket and pants and got the charges dropped. Another woman was arrested while wearing a peacoat and jeans that \"outlined her legs.\"\n\nA transwoman named Ryhannah Combs was picked up on prostitution charges while running errands. She was carrying no condoms but the arresting officer said she was carrying nine. Instead of being put in a cell, she was chained to a wall. The city settled when she sued.\n\nA staff attorney at the Trafficking Victims Advocacy Project said that the police frequently verbally abused her clients when arresting them, and on multiple occasions have engaged in inappropriate sexual behavior.\n\nWomen who are addicted and becoming dope sick are targeted for sex. This was described as \"a deal with the Devil,\" because the police officer will keep coming back for information, sex, or an easy arrest.\n\nDank, et al\n\nApril 2017\n\nStudy data was drawn from 1,400 client records from the Legal Aid Society's Exploitation Intervention Project. The researchers also interviewed twenty EIP clients who had had prostitution-related offenses cleared from their record.\n\nSome of the study respondents had positive or neutral experiences with the police, but most of them had overwhelmingly negative experiences: verbal abuse, intimidation, humiliation, sexual harassment, and profiling.\n\nVerbal abuse included slurs, derogatory comments, and refusal to use the person's native language, even when able to do so. Police used humiliation to extract cooperation. One trans woman described particularly intense humiliation, recurring with each arrest.\n\nSome respondents had been propositioned by the police or had police as clients. One respondent described an officer who started off as a client. After their last session he came back the next day in his uniform and arrested her.\n\nSome respondents reported repeated prostitution arrests by the same officer, even when the women weren't working. One woman was arrested while going to the store in pajamas and bedroom slippers. She described another arrest that occurred while she was meeting a cousin for dinner. She was charged even though the cousin came to the police station and told the police what they had been doing. One respondent described a police officer stating that he would lock her up if he saw her on the street.\n\nSome respondents who were trafficked or victims of violence sought help from the police, only to be ridiculed or ignored.\n\nThukral, et al\n\n2005\n\nThe study sample was fifty two indoor sex workers.\n\n63% of the respondents had police-initiated contact with the police, but 63% of those said the contact was rare. Only one person, a trans woman, had police-initiated contact as often as a couple of times a week. The police in her neighborhood knew her because she had previously worked outdoors. They harassed her, honking at her as she was walking down the street, telling her to go home or they would arrest her, and calling her \"Mr.\" or \"homeboy\". Another trans woman said the police harassed her because she was transgender.\n\nSeveral respondents said that during arrests, police took their pictures with personal cameras. They believed the pictures were for the officers' personal use. 12% of respondents had been falsely arrested at least once.\n\n29% of respondents had been taken into custody but released without arrest. The researchers believe the lack of police follow up indicates that there was no basis for taking the people into custody.\n\n14% of respondents had experienced police violence and felt they had no recourse. One woman said she was beaten twice, both times because she refused to give police officers free oral sex. The first time, after she bit the officer's penis, he beat her until she passed out. Another woman was having problems with a particularly violent officer:\n\nFour respondents said that police had stolen money. One said that police steal from her about once a year. Two respondents had $4,000 and a laptop stolen from them during an arrest.\n\n16% of respondents said they had been in sexual situations with the police. Some had sex with the police for protection or because the officers were customers, but others were picked up by the police and given the choice between sex and arrest.\n\nSome of the Latinos reported regular police harassment.\n\nDank, et al\n\nThe study sample was two hundred eighty three young people selected through RDS.\n\nMost of the respondents had been profiled, but only a small number were profiled for sex work. White and black youth were more likely to be profiled than Latinx. A black Dominican trans woman described moving into Manhattan and talking a walk around her new neighborhood. A police officer stopped her and told her she had better not be \"on a stroll.\" At the time, she didn't know what a stroll was.\n\nFebruary 2015\n\n Criminalizaton, legalization, or decriminalization of sex work: what female sex workers say in San Francisco, USA\n\nLutnick and Cohen\n\n2009\n\n14% of respondents described being threatened with arrest unless they had sex with a police officer. 8% said they were arrested after having sex with a police officer. 5% said they were arrested after refusing to have sex with a police officer. 40% of interactions with police officers during the previous three months were bad or very bad.\n\n Move Along: Policing Sex Work in Washington, D.C.\n\nArrington, et al\n\n2008\n\nFor interactions initiated by the police, 38.5% of survey respondents reported being humiliated or verbally abused by police during relatively minor interactions such as checking ID. One respondent said the officer called her a whore, prostitute, and trick. During 8.6% of these interactions, officers confiscated or destroyed safe sex supplies, including condoms. 17.3% of respondents said that police-initiated interactions involved the officer asking for sexual services, or demanding sexual services to avoid arrest. 9.1% of respondents reported being assaulted by police officers. 3 respondents reported strip searches.\n\nSeventy eight respondents were profiled as sex workers and ordered to \"move along.\" The most common result of this was that they ended up in an area where they felt less safe.\n\n75% of trans people and 82.4% of Latinos said they were treated worse than others when they were in lock up.\n\nWhen the survey respondents initiated contact with the police, usually to report a crime, in a number of cases the police tried to have sex with them. This seemed to be particularly true of trans Latinas.\n\n Whose Safety?: Women of Color and the Violence of Law Enforcement\n\nBattacharjee\n\n2001\n\nThis is an overview of the literature available at the time of publication on law enforcement abuse of various groups of women. There's a short discussion of sex workers at the end.\n\nPolice abuse of sex workers includes verbal insults, coerced sex, brutal beatings, and rape. When police know that a woman is a sex worker, they may harass her when she is not working. \n\nThe most common abuses are verbal abuse and threats to arrest sex workers if the police don't receive sexual services. Police often assume that sex workers don't care who they will have sex with and will do anything to avoid arrest. But experienced street-based sex workers often refuse to provide free services. They are resigned to frequent arrests, including arrests for questionable charges. What they want to avoid are fear and indignity forced on them by bad officers.\n\nOne observer describes Chicago police picking up sex workers when the workers are on their way to and from work, and asking for sexual services. New York City police have threatened to shut down sex parlors if they didn't get free sexual services. Women picked up in raids have been taken away in their underwear and had their possessions confiscated.\n\nTrans female sex workers face these and other more complex forms of abuse. If their official documentation doesn't match their gender presentation, they may face verbal abuse and cruel jokes centered around the difference. They may be subjected to unnecessary and illegal strip searches, ostensibly to determine their gender.\n\nPolice use sex work to profile people, stop them on the street, intimidate and question them, check for warrants, and often arrest them.\n\nThe discussion of sex work ends with the description of two rapes suffered by Mary Barr. In the first, a police officer chased off her client and then told her she might as well have sex with him because the client had already paid. In the second, an officer ordered her into the back seat of his car, told her \"do what you do best,\" and then raped her.\n\nBest Practices Policy Project, Desiree Alliance, and Sex Workers Outreach Project- NYC\n\n2014-09-15\n\nThis was submitted as part of the UN Universal Periodic Review of the U.S.A.\n\nDuring arrest or taking someone into custody, police often degrade or humiliate sex workers, including removing wigs or clothing, confiscating or destroying property, making homophobic, anti-transgender, and racists slurs, and engaging on sexual harassment. Organizations working with sex workers have documented a pattern of police practice that includes assault, sexual harassment, public strip searches for the purpose of viewing genitalia, and rape. This pattern of practice is supported by the difficulty or impossibility of obtaining justice in these cases. \n\nPolice are able to extend this abuse from sex workers to trans women and women of color by profiling them as sex workers. A study in Los Angeles of Latina trans women found that 42% reported being solicited for sex by law enforcement and 24% reported being sexually abused by police officers.\n\nWhen sex workers try to report crimes against them, officers don't take their complaints seriously, refuse to file a report, and may arrest them, physically assault them, or pressure them for sex. When a sex worker tried to bring charges against a security guard who handcuffed and raped her, the police referred to the guard as \"a big teddy bear\", and added exculpatory statements to her report that she didn't make. This refusal to deal with crimes against sex workers leads serial killers to target sex workers and people profiled as sex workers.\n\nWhile most witnesses who are in danger because of their testimony are put in witness protection programs, sex workers are pressured to testify by putting them in jail, exposing them to witness intimidation and denying them their right to liberty. An African-American trans female sex worker was placed in the mens' jail in Baltimore in an effort to compel her to testify in a violent crime case. Police in some areas force sex workers to participate in drug stings, exposing them to violence from the people targeted by the stings.\n\nIn New York, transgender and gender non-conforming people are often profiled as sex workers and arrested. They then have to decide whether to request being held as a \"special category\" prisoner. If they make the request, police are often harsh, holding them alone in a back cell longer than usual or assaulting them. If no empty cells are available, police chain them to a desk or metal bar, often for hours at a time. If they don't make the request, they may be put in a cell where they aren't safe, or the police may incite trouble with the other prisoners by saying \"here's another [anti-LGBT slur] for you.\"\n\nPolice discourage the use of condoms by using condoms as evidence, or they destroy condoms and safe sex supplies. This encourages the spread of HIV and STIs. Carrying condoms may also be a signal for sexual harassment, cuing police to ask intrusive questions about sexual orientation and gender identity, touch inappropriately, and make disparaging comments. Police particularly target young women of color and trans youth and gender non-conforming youth of color.\n\nSex workers with severe injuries from violent attacks are often belittled and blamed for the attacks, and police often don't escort them or refer them to medical care. People in medical facilities seeking care for injuries from attacks have been accusingly questioned by police officers when they were profiled as sex workers.\n\nDitmore\n\n2009\n\nThe study sample consisted of fifteen woman who were sex workers, trafficked victims, or both.\n\nSix of the twelve women who had been trafficking victims left their trafficking situation without help from law enforcement, through the help of a coworker or an attorney they met through a coworker or friend. Nationwide, it appears that the majority of trafficking victims escape without the involvement of law enforcement. One supervisor in a national organization said that 90% of their cases were not produced by raids or identified by law enforcement.\n\n(N.b. Most people who fit the legal definition of trafficking victim seem to exit trafficking without any organizational help. In a study of underage sex workers in NYC, only 2% said they would ever go to a service organization if they were in trouble. On the whole, they age out of sex work rather than being \"rescued.\" Young sex workers studied in NYC and Atlantic City experienced greater control over their work over time, regardless of whether they had pimps.\nOverall, it appears that the majority of people who fall under the category of trafficking victim exit the category through their own efforts. Only a minority of trafficking victims exit trafficking with help from organizations created to help them. Of that minority, only a further minority, perhaps 10%, are identified by law enforcement. And this study suggests that most of the people picked up in raids could have been rescued or self-rescued in other, less traumatic ways, had they been aware of the help available to them.)\n\nOf the six trafficking victims picked up in law enforcement raids, one would have left her situation in a few days if she had not been picked up in a raid and arrested. As a result of the raid, she was pistol-whipped by a police officer and incarcerated. Her conclusion:\n\nAnother would have left on her own if she had known where to go, and another said that she would have preferred leaving with a coworker rather than being picked up in a raid. One didn't know another way to escape, but still thought the raid was \"terrible.\" Had these women known of the resources available to trafficked people, they very likely could have left on their own and gotten the assistance they needed without the trauma or injury of a raid.\n\nRaids often involve intimidation, verbal abuse, excessive force, and sexual harassment. Raids result in detention and deportation of trafficking victims who are afraid to come forward, or who come forward and aren't believed. Victims who aren't detained or deported are often terrorized into silence. \n\nThe respondents who experienced raids didn't know which government agency was raiding them, and in one case initially knew only that they were being attacked by people carrying guns. They didn't know what purpose the raids had, other than to detain and deport them, and they didn't know what was going to happen to them.\n\nThe women who left trafficking situations on their own, without being traumatized by a law enforcement raid, were better able to cooperate in the prosecution of their traffickers.\n"}
{"id": "3618379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3618379", "title": "Qurbani", "text": "Qurbani\n\nQurbanī (), Qurban, or uḍḥiyyah () as referred to in Islamic law, is the sacrifice of a livestock animal during Eid al-Adha. The word is related to the Hebrew \"qorbān\" \"offering\" and Syriac \"qurbānā\" \"sacrifice\", etymologised through the cognate Arabic triliteral as \"a way or means of approaching someone\" or \"nearness\". In Islamic law, udhiyyah would refer to the sacrifice of a specific animal, offered by a specific person, on specific days to seek God's pleasure and reward. The word qurban appears thrice in the Quran: once in reference to animal sacrifice and twice referring to sacrifice in the general sense of any act which may bring one closer to God. In contrast, \"dhabīḥah\" refers to normal Islamic slaughter outside the day of udhiyyah.\n\nIslam traces the history of sacrifice back to Abel and Cain (Habil and Qabil), whose story is mentioned in the Qur'an. Abel was the first human being to sacrifice an animal for God. Ibn Kathir narrates that Abel had offered a sheep whilst his brother Cain offered part of the crops of his land. The ordained procedure of God was that a fire would descend from the heavens and consume the accepted sacrifice. Accordingly, a fire came down and enveloped the animal slaughtered by Abel thus accepting the sacrifice of Abel while Cain's sacrifice was rejected. This led to jealousy on the part of Cain resulting in the first human death when he murdered his brother Abel. After not seeking repentance for his actions, Cain was not forgiven by God.\n\nThe practice of qurbani can be traced back to [Ibrahim], who dreamt that God ordered him to sacrifice his son. Ibrahim agreed to follow God's command and perform the sacrifice, however, God intervened and informed him that his sacrifice had been accepted. Unlike the Bible, there is no mention in the Qur'an of an animal (ram) replacing the boy, rather he is replaced with a 'great sacrifice'. Since the sacrifice of a ram cannot be greater than that of ibrahim's son (and a prophet in Islam at that), this replacement seems to point to either the religious institutionalisation of sacrifice itself, or to the future self-sacrifices of the Islamic prophet Muhammad and his companions (who were destined to emerge from the progeny of Ishmael) in the cause of their faith. From that day onward, every Eid al-Adha once a year, Muslims around the world slaughter an animal to commemorate Ibrahim's sacrifice and to remind themselves of abnegation.\n\nThe philosophy behind \"udhiyyah\" is that it is a demonstration of submission to God, complete obedience to God's will or command and sacrificing everything for his pleasure. Ibrahim demonstrated this spirit of submission and sacrifice in the best possible manner. When confronted with the challenge of love and allegiance, he chose to submit unconditionally to God and suppressed personal desire and love for his family and child. Qurbani calls for the slaughter of one's innate desires by placing the knife of courage and resistance on hatred, jealousy, pride, greed, animosity, love for the world and other such maladies of the heart.\n\nIn Islam, the sacrifice of an animal is legal from the morning of the 10th to sunset of the 13th \"Dhu l-Hijjah\", the 12th lunar month of the Islamic calendar. On these days Muslims all over the world offer Qurbani which means a sacrifice/ slaughter of an animal on specific days for the pleasure of Allah. It is understood as a symbolic repetition of Ibrahim's sacrifice of a ram in place of his son, a crucial notion in Judaism, and Islam alike. Islamic preachers would use the occasion to comment on the fact that Islam is a religion of sacrifice and use this opportunity to remind Muslims of their duty of serving mankind with their time, effort and wealth.\n\nMost schools of \"fiqh\" accept that the animal must be slaughtered according to the laws of \"dhabihah\" and that the animal in question must be a domesticated goat, sheep, cow or camel.\n\nThe term is also used for those who have been martyred.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5817497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5817497", "title": "Reading series", "text": "Reading series\n\nA reading series is a recurring public literary event featuring writers reading from their work to a live audience. Some reading series are curated, some have themes, and some also feature music or other multimedia collaborations. Others simply focus on the act of listening to the written word, read out loud.\n\n\n\n\n\nRiverbank Reading Series, Newbridge, Co. Kildare\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "233493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233493", "title": "SS Columbia Eagle incident", "text": "SS Columbia Eagle incident\n\nThe SS \"Columbia Eagle\" incident refers to a mutiny that occurred aboard the U.S. flagged merchant vessel \"Columbia Eagle\" in March 1970 when two crewmembers seized the vessel with the threat of a bomb and forced the master to sail to Cambodia. The ship was under contract with the Military Sea Transportation Service to carry napalm bombs to be used by the U.S. Air Force during the Vietnam War and was originally bound for Sattahip, Thailand. During the mutiny, 24 of the crew were forced into two lifeboats and set adrift in the Gulf of Thailand while the remainder of the crew were forced to take the ship to a bay near Sihanoukville, Cambodia. The two mutineers requested political asylum from the Cambodian government which was initially granted but they were later arrested and jailed. \"Columbia Eagle\" was returned to U.S. control in April 1970.\n\nThe \"Columbia Eagle\" was a Victory-type cargo ship constructed by Oregon Shipbuilding Corporation of Portland, Oregon in 1945 for the U.S. Navy and originally christened \"Pierre Victory\". She was designed to carry all types of dry supplies and munitions to both the European and Pacific theaters of World War II. Like most of the ships of the Victory-type, \"Pierre Victory\" was decommissioned after the war and either mothballed or sold to commercial shipping companies. In 1968, she was purchased by the Columbia Steamship Company, renamed \"Columbia Eagle\" and contracted out to the Military Sea Transportation Service for the purpose of hauling supplies and ammunition to Southeast Asian ports in South Vietnam and Thailand during the Vietnam War. Because \"Columbia Eagle\" was a U.S. flagged ship, she was a part of the Merchant Marine and therefore eligible under government contracting rules to haul military supplies to the war zone.\n\nClyde McKay was born on 20 May 1944 near Hemet, California. His father was in the military at the time and often had duty away from the family. While a teenager, he suffered a misdiagnosed bowel obstruction and was seriously ill for a year. Because of this, he lost a year in school and never finished high school and decided to join the merchant marine. McKay received his merchant marine documents on 23 October 1963 and joined the Seafarers International Union shortly thereafter.\n\nAlvin Glatkowski was born on 11 September 1949 at Augusta, Georgia. His father was also in the military at the time of his birth but shortly after Glatkowski was born, his father abandoned the family. His mother married a Navy third-class machinist mate named Ralph Hagan when Glatkowski was three. Hagan was abusive to Glatkowski when he was home, but was often on duty or cruises and Glatkowski learned to be independent at an early age. As a teenager, Glatkowski assumed the role of head of the household when Hagan was at sea and this made Hagan very angry when he returned home. He often took out his frustrations on Glatkowski violently, which led him to leave home at eighteen. Glatkowski went to New York and enrolled in the Seafarers Harry Lundeberg School of Seamanship operated by the Seafarers International Union. Lundeberg School taught the skills needed to get deck, engine and steward jobs on merchant marine ships. On 17 April 1967, Glatkowski received his merchant mariner papers stating he was eligible for entry-level jobs on U.S. flagged ships.\n\nOn 14 March 1970, McKay and Glatkowski used guns they had smuggled aboard to seize control of their ship, SS \"Columbia Eagle\", in the first armed mutiny aboard an American ship in 150 years. The ship had been sailing on a Department of Defense supply charter carrying napalm to the U.S. Air Force bases in Thailand for use in the Vietnam War.\n\nThe mutineers claimed that there was a live bomb on board the ship, and forced the captain to order 24 of the crewmen to abandon ship in the lifeboats. The ship's cargo, 3,500 500-pound bombs and 1,225 750-pound bombs, gave this threat credibility.\n\nWhen the crewmen departed in lifeboats, a SOS was transmitted. Lieutenant Commander Bob Scalf and his VP-1 Crew 6, the famed \"Scalf Hunters\", operating their P-3B from Utapao, Thailand, were directed to launch on a search and rescue (SAR) mission to find the SS \"Columbia Eagle\" and assist as needed. Upon arrival at the ship and noticing a small crew and the presence of small arms, Crew 6 immediately reported the hijacking and their assessment that the ship was heading for Cambodia. Communications and status reporting was maintained until they were relieved on station. Crew 6 was awarded a well-done from CTF-72 for their actions.\n\nOther P-3 Orion aircrews relieved VP-1 Crew 6 and each other to keep the Columbia Eagle under constant surveillance while events unfolded. Among them was VP-22 Crew 3, piloted by Lieutenant Commander Norman \"Chips\" Koehler, which launched on short notice from Sangley Point in the Philippines.\n\nThe merchant ship \"Rappahanock\" picked up the lifeboats and crew members and broadcast the news of the mutiny. The United States Coast Guard cutter was the first US military vessel on station, pursuing the \"Columbia Eagle\". The amphibious transport dock was diverted to relieve \"Mellon\" in its pursuit. The destroyer, USS Turner Joy, DD951, was detached from station at I Corps to pursue the Columbia Eagle at flank speed and to intervene. However, the \"Columbia Eagle\" reached Cambodian waters before any U.S. naval assets could intercept.\n\nWith only 13 crewmen remaining aboard besides themselves, the mutineers sailed into Cambodian waters, where they assumed they would be welcomed as heroes. They anchored within the 12-mile (22.2 km) territorial limit claimed by Cambodia on the afternoon of 15 March.\n\nAt 0951 on 16 March, \"Denver\" anchored 15.6 miles (28.9 km) from the coast in the Gulf of Siam, remaining outside Cambodian waters. \"Mellon\" joined shortly thereafter with Commander, Amphibious Squadron Seven, as the senior officer present. Two CH-53 Sea Stallion helicopters landed on \"Denver\" from bases in Vietnam to assist in visual surveillance. Meanwhile, the mutineers had turned the ship over to Prince Norodom Sihanouk's government, declared themselves anti-war revolutionaries, and were granted asylum.\n\nOn 17 March, the helicopters were detached and \"Denver\", with Commander, Amphibious Squadron Seven, departed for Singapore, passing on-scene command to \"Mellon\".\n\"Turner Joy\" remained on station in a cruising pattern within shipping lanes and in sight of the harbor channel.\n\nOn 18 March at 0636, \"Denver\" reversed her course; Prince Sihanouk had been deposed by a coup led by the pro-U.S. Sirik Matak and Lon Nol. If the Cambodians could be persuaded to release \"Columbia Eagle\", \"Denver\"'s flight deck could help the rescued crew members rejoin their ship. The coup was unfortunate for McKay and Glatkowski; they had hoped to find asylum in a pro-Communist country; instead, they became prisoners of the new Cambodian government. At 2359 on 18 March, \"Denver\" anchored in the Gulf of Siam 17.0 miles (31.5 km) from the coast of Cambodia.\n\nSihanouk, now in exile, charged that the CIA had masterminded the mutiny to deliver weapons to Lon Nol. Both the mutineers and U.S. officials denied his charges, but the damage was done; no Communist forces would shelter the mutineers after they were labeled as CIA stooges.\n\nWhen it became clear that \"Columbia Eagle\"'s release was not imminent, \"Denver\" was detached to proceed to Da Nang.\n\nOn 8 April, \"Columbia Eagle\" was permitted to leave Cambodian waters. She rendezvoused with where a Navy explosive ordnance disposal team inspected the ship while \"Chase\" departed to An Thoi to pick up the \"Columbia Eagle\" crew and return them to the ship. With the crew and ship reunited, \"Chase\" escorted her to U.S. Naval Base Subic Bay arriving 12 April.\n\nMcKay and Glatkowski were held by the post-coup Cambodian government for several months after their capture. A United Press newspaper interview from August 1970 describes them as living under guard in \"a rusting World War II landing ship moored in the Mekong River,\" regularly using marijuana supplied by their guards, and making statements supporting the Manson Family and violent overthrow of the United States government.\n\nAfter months of imprisonment, Glatkowski was extradited to the United States to face trial. He was charged with mutiny, kidnapping, assault and neglect of duty, convicted, and served his sentence. He has admitted to mistakes in the hijacking but remains unapologetic about their goal of interrupting the napalm shipment.\n\nMcKay escaped from his captors along with U.S. Army deserter Larry Humphrey and sought out the Khmer Rouge. He was officially declared missing on 4 November 1970 and has never been located by the authorities. However, Richard Linnett and Roberto Loiederman, co-authors of \"The Eagle Mutiny\", wrote an article, entitled \"The Last Mutineer\", for the February 2005 issue of \"Penthouse\" in which they report that remains brought back from Cambodia were positively identified as Clyde McKay's at the Central Identification Laboratory - Hawaii (CILHI), the U.S. Navy's forensic lab in Hawaii. Subsequently, the remains were cremated and the ashes were buried in the family plot in Hemet, California, where McKay had spent his youth.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46186879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46186879", "title": "Speech of Universal History", "text": "Speech of Universal History\n\nSpeech of Universal History or Discours sur l'histoire universelle in original French (1681) is a work of theology and philosophy from French Roman Catholic bishop Jacques-Bénigne Bossuet. It is regarded by many Catholics as a continuation or actualization of St. Augustine of Hippo’s the \"City of God\" (\"De Civitate Dei\"). It proposes, much like the \"City of God\", a metaphysical appreciation of universal history as an actual war between God and the Devil.\n\nIn this war, God moves (by divine intervention/ Divine providence) those governments, political/ideological movements and military forces aligned (or aligned the most) with the Catholic Church (the City of God) in order to oppose by all means (including military) those governments, political/ideological movements and military forces aligned (or aligned the most) with the Devil (the City of the Devil). While the City of God is always the Church and those movements or governments that support it, the City of the Devil changes significantly with the centuries.\n\nThis concept of universal history is actual part of the official doctrine of the Catholic Church as was most recently stated in the Second Vatican Council' s \"Gaudium et Spes\" document: \"The Church ... holds that in her most benign Lord and Master can be found the key, the focal point and the goal of man, as well as of all human history...all of human life, whether individual or collective, shows itself to be a dramatic struggle between good and evil, between light and darkness...The Lord is the goal of human history the focal point of the longings of history and of civilization, the center of the human race, the joy of every heart and the answer to all its yearnings\" (GS 10, 13, 45).\n\nThe \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" depicts the key point of \"Speech of Universal History\" as follows:\n\n“…This is why the idea of Providence is at the same time the law of history. If the crash of empires \"falling one upon another\" does not in truth express some purpose of God regarding humanity, then history, or what is called by that name, is indeed no longer anything but a chaotic chronology, the meaning of which we should strive in vain to disentangle. In that case, fortune, or rather chance, would be the mistress of human affairs; the existence of humanity would be only a bad dream, or phantasmagoria, whose changing face would be inadequate to mask a void of nothingness. We should be fretting ourselves in that void without reason and almost without cause, our very actions would be but phantoms, and the only result of so many efforts accumulated through so many thousands of years would be the conviction, every day more clear, of their uselessness, which would be another void of nothingness.\n\nAnd why, after all, were there Greeks and Romans? Of what use was Salamis? Actium? Poitiers? Lepanto? Why was there a Caesar, and a Charlemagne? Let us frankly own, then, that unless something Divine circulates in history, there is no history.\n\nNations like individuals, live only by maintaining uninterrupted communication with God, and it is precisely this condition of their existence which is called by the name of Providence. Providence is the condition or the possibility of history, as the stability of the laws of nature is the condition of the possibility of science. ..It was Providence that made of the Jewish people a people apart, a unique people, the chosen people, charged with maintaining and defending the worship of the true God throughout the pagan centuries, against the prestige of an idolatry which essentially consisted in the deification of the energies of nature. It was Providence that, by means of Roman unity and of its extension throughout the known universe, rendered not only possible but easy and almost necessary, the conversion of the world to Christianity .It was Providence, again, that developed the features of the modern world out of the disorder of barbarous invasions and reconciled the two antiquities under the law of Christ. If the action of Providence is manifest anywhere, it is in the sequence of the history of Christianity. And what is more natural under the circumstances than to make of its history the demonstration of its truth?\"\n"}
{"id": "15672986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15672986", "title": "Stenborg Theatre", "text": "Stenborg Theatre\n\nThe Stenborg theatre, also called Svenska Komiska Teatern, Komiska Teatern and Munkbroteatern, was a historical Swedish 18th century theatre, active between 1784 and 1799 in Gamla stan in Stockholm. It was the second theatre of Stockholm during the Gustavian age. In 1784-87, before the inauguration of the theatre of Ristell in Bollhuset, it was the only dramatic theatre of the native language in Stockholm. \n\nThe Stenborg theatre was a continuation of the famous Stenborg Troupe; when the first Swedish national theatre at Bollhuset was closed in 1753–54, half of the troupe performed in various localities in the city under the leadership of Petter Stenborg. When the national stage was re-established by king Gustav III of Sweden in 1773, it did not include the old Stenborg troupe. In 1780, the troupe had finally acquired a proper house to perform in; Eriksbergsteatern, (The Eriksberg Theatre), and in 1781, the leadership was taken over by Petter Stenborg son, Carl Stenborg. In 1780–84, the Eriksberg Theatre was the only permanent theatre on the native language in Stockholm. \n\nThe Erikberg Theatre was uncomfortably outside of town, and the Stenborg troupe under Carl Stenborg searched for a new building. They made a partnership with the rich brewer Christina Nyman, who wanted to establish a theatre in Gamla stan and had obtained a permission to do so. The theatre was housed in a large building erected in Gamla Stan in 1782; the first floor housed four taverns and several apartments, while the second floor was reserved for the Stenborg troupe. From 1784, it was formally named \"Svenska komiska Teatern\" (Swedish Comical Theatre) or \"Svenska Teatern\" (Swedish Theatre) and from 1788 \"Komiska Teatern\" (Comedy Theatre). It was also known as \"Munkbroteatern\" (The Munkbro Theatre), after its location. The common name for it was always the Stenborg Theatre. \n\nThe theatre was luxuriously decorated and was in 1784 called the biggest theatre in the country. The theatrically interested king was present at its premier and gave away gifts to its performers. However, it did not have the same status as the Royal Swedish Opera and Royal Dramatic Theatre and was considered much less formal: it was a place for less formal and solemn performances, a place for satirical comedy and such, and foreigners sometimes compared it to a boulevard-theatre of the kind that was popular in Paris. I also performed less formal opera and musicals. \"The Barber of Seville\" had its Swedish premiere here in 1785, as well as \"The Marriage of Figaro\" in 1792. Also foreign guest-artists and circus-performances were given here; in the autumn of 1793, the English circus-company of Peter and James Price performed acrobatics and tight-rope-dancing here, were the four-year-old Louise Price danced on a rope. The theater's status as a less serious theatre did not stop actors from the Royal Swedish Opera and the Royal Dramatic Theatre to appear there; even Elisabeth Olin had performed here, and it was in fact used by actors and singers to work in during their conflicts with the managements with their regular stages. \n\nThe director Carl Stenborg, who was a celebrated opera singer at the Royal Swedish Opera, resided in one of the apartments, where he and his wife, the singer Betty Olin, hosted gatherings and parties for the cultural elite of the city. The theatre often took their staff from the choir at the Royal Opera, but it also took in its own students. An advertisement in 1786 read as follows: \n\nIn 1798, the new monopoly of the royal theaters was proclaimed in the city of Stockholm, and the Stenborg theatre was closed the year after (the monopoly was in effect until 1842). The building itself was torn down in 1899.\n\nStage manager\n\nDirector\n\nActors\n\n\nActresses\n\n\nGuest actors\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49370202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49370202", "title": "Stumptown Comics Fest", "text": "Stumptown Comics Fest\n\nStumptown Comics Fest was a comic book convention, held annually in Portland, Oregon from 2004–2013. In the model of the Alternative Press Expo and the Small Press Expo, Stumptown was a forum for artists, writers and publishers of comic art in its various forms to expose the public to comics not typically accessible through normal commercial channels.\n\nThe Stumptown Comics Fest originated in early 2004 with a small group of Portland-area cartoonists (led by Indigo Kelleigh) who yearned for a convention that focused on the art of comics instead of the business of comics. In a space of four months they were able to put on the first comics fest on June 6, 2004, at the Old Church, a non-profit organization whose goal was to preserve an old church. The first show featured 22 exhibitor tables, and attracted 150 attendees.\n\nIn 2005 the show moved to Portland State University's Smith Memorial Ballroom, and grew to 80 exhibitor tables and 450 attendees.\n\nIn 2006 the event moved to the Oregon Convention Center and expanded to two days.\n\nIn 2007, the event began hosting the Stumptown Comics Fest Trophy Awards and Comic Art Battle. The awards honored outstanding small creators and comics, while the Comic Art Battle was described as \"a cross between Pictionary and wrestling.\"\n\nIn 2012 the show changed hands, with Kelleigh passing on the reins to Shawna Gore; in addition, the new organizers achieved nonprofit status.\n\nAfter the 10th annual show in 2013, Stumptown went \"on hiatus\" and entered an operating agreement with Rose City Comic Con.\n"}
{"id": "4370145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4370145", "title": "Taiwan Miracle", "text": "Taiwan Miracle\n\nThe Taiwan Miracle () or Taiwan Economic Miracle refers to the rapid industrialization and economic growth of Taiwan during the latter half of the twentieth century. As it has developed alongside Singapore, South Korea and Hong Kong, Taiwan became known as one of the \"Four Asian Tigers\".\n\nAfter a period of hyperinflation in the late 1940s when the Kuomintang (KMT) military regime of Chen Yi overprinted the new Taiwan Yuan against the previous Japan Taiwan Yen, it became clear that a new and stable currency was needed. Along with the $4 billion in financial aid and soft credit provided by the US (as well as the indirect economic stimulus of US food and military aid) over the 1945-1965 period, Taiwan had the necessary capital to restart its economy. Further, the KMT government instituted many laws and land reforms that it had never effectively enacted on mainland China.\n\nA land reform law, inspired by the same one that the Americans were enacting in occupied Japan, removed the landlord class (In a similar manner as Japan), and created a higher number of peasants whom, with the help of the state, increased the agricultural output dramatically. This was the first excedent accumulation source. It inverted capital creation, and liberated the agricultural workforce to work in the urban sectors. However, the government imposed on the peasants an unequal exchange with the industrial economy, with credit and fertilizer controls and a non monetary exchange to trade agrarian products (machinery) for rice. With the control of the banks (at the time, being the property of the government), and import licenses, the state oriented the Taiwanese economy to import substitutive industrialization, creating initial capitalism in a fully protected market.\n\nIt also, with the help of USAID, created a massive industrial infrastructure, communications, and developed the educational system. Several government bodies were created and four-year plans were also enacted. Between 1952 and 1982, economic growth was on average 8.7%, and between 1983 and 1986 at 6.9%. The gross national product grew by 360% between 1965 and 1986. The percentage of global exports was over 2% in 1986, over other recently industrialized countries, and the global industrial production output grew a further 680% between 1965 and 1986. The social gap between the rich and the poor fell (Gini: 0.558 in 1953, 0.303 in 1980), even lower than some Western European countries, but it grew a little in the 80's. Health care, education, and quality of life also improved. Much of that was made possible through US economic aid, subsidizing the higher cost of domestic production. The flexibility of the productive system and the industrial structure meant that Taiwanese companies had more chances to adapt themselves to the changing international situation and the global economy.\n\nIn 1959, a 19-point program of Economic and Financial Reform, liberalized market controls, stimulated exports and designed a strategy to attract foreign companies and foreign capitals. An exports processing area was created in Kaohsiung and in 1964, General Instruments pioneered in externalizing electronic assembly in Taiwan. Japanese companies moved in to benefit of low salaries, the lack of environmental laws and controls, a well-educated and capable workforce, and the support of the Government. But the nucleus of the industrial structure was national, and it was composed by a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises, created within families with the family savings, and savings cooperatives nets (會 Pinyin: Huì). They had the support of the government in the form of subsidies and credits loaned by the banks.\n\nMost of this Huì appeared for the first time in rural zones near metropolitan areas, where families shared work (in the parcels they owned and in the industrial workshops at the same time). For instance, in 1989 in Changhua, small enterprises produced almost 50% of the world's umbrellas. The State attracted foreign companies in order to obtain more capital and to get access to foreign markets, but the big foreign companies got contracts with this huge net of small sized, familiar and national companies, which were a very important percentage of the industrial output.\n\nForeign investment never represented an important component in the Taiwanese economy, with the notable exception of the electronic market. For instance, in 1981, direct foreign investment was a mere 2% of the GNP, foreign companies employed 4.8% of the total workforce, their production was 13.9% of the total production and their exports were 25.6% of nationwide exports. Access to the global markets was facilitated by the Japanese companies and by the American importers, who wanted a direct relationship with the Taiwanese brands. No big multinational corporations were created (like in Singapore), or huge national conglomerates (like South Korean chaebols), but some industrial groups, with the support of the government, grew, and became in the 90's huge companies totally internationalized.\n\nMost of the development was thanks to the flexibility of family businesses which produced for foreign traders established in Taiwan and for international trade nets with the help of intermediaries. But the state was the central organism which coordinated the industrialization process, it created the infrastructures, it attracted foreign investment, it decided the strategic priorities and, when necessary, recurred to impose its conditions.\n\nIn the 1970s, protectionism was on the rise, and the United Nations switched recognition from the Republic of China to the People's Republic of China as the sole legitimate representative of all China. It was expelled by General Assembly Resolution 2758 and replaced in all UN organs with the PRC. The KMT began a process of enhancement and modernization of the industry, mainly in high technology (such as microelectronics, personal computers and peripherals). One of the biggest and most successful Technology Parks was built in Hsinchu, near Taipei.\n\nMany Taiwanese brands became important suppliers of worldwide known firms such as DEC or IBM, while other established branches in Silicon Valley and other places inside the United States and became known. The government also recommended the textile and clothing industries to enhance the quality and value of their products to avoid restrictive import quotas, usually measured in volume. The decade also saw the beginnings of a genuinely independent union movement after decades of repression. Some significant events occurred in 1977, which gave the new unions a boost.\n\nOne was the formation of an independent union at the Far East Textile Company after a two-year effort discredited the former management-controlled union. This was the first union that existed independently of the KMT in Taiwan's post-war history (although the KMT retained a minority membership on its committee). Rather than prevailing upon the state to use martial law to smash the union, the management adopted the more cautious approach of buying workers' votes at election times. However, such attempts repeatedly failed and, by 1986, all of the elected leaders were genuine unionists. Another, and, historically, the most important, was the now called \"Zhongli incident\".\n\nIn the 1980s, Taiwan had become an economic power, with a mature and diversified economy, solid presence in international markets and huge foreign exchange reserves. Its companies were able to go abroad, internationalize their production, investing massively in Asia (mainly in China) and in other Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries, mainly in the United States.\n\nHigher salaries and better organized trade unions in Taiwan, together with the reduction of the Taiwanese export quotas meant that the bigger Taiwanese companies moved their production to China and Southeast Asia. The civil society in a now developed country, wanted democracy, and the rejection of the KMT dictatorship was bigger day by day. A major step occurred when Lee Teng-hui, a native from Taiwan, became President, and the KMT started a new path searching for democratic legitimacy.\n\nTwo aspects must be remembered: the KMT was on the center of the structure and controlled the process, and that the structure was a net made of relations between the enterprises, between the enterprises and the State, between the enterprises and the global market thanks to trade companies and the international economic exchanges. Native Taiwanese were largely excluded from the mainlanders dominated government, so many went into the business world.\n\nIn 1952, Taiwan had a per capita gross national product (GNP) of $170, placing the island's economy squarely between Zaire and Congo. But, by 2010 Taiwan's per capita GNP, adjusted for purchasing power parity (PPP), had soared to $35,227, similar to that of developed West European economies and Japan.\n\nAccording to economist Paul Krugman, the rapid growth was made possible by increases in capital and labor but not an increase in efficiency. In other words, the savings rate increased and work hours were lengthened, and many more people, such as women, entered the work force.\n\nDwight Perkins and others cite certain methodological flaws in Krugman and Alwyn Young's research, and suggest that much of Taiwan's growth can be attributed to increases in productivity. These productivity boosts were achieved through land reform, structural change (urbanization and industrialization), and an economic policy of export promotion rather than import substitution.\n\nEconomic growth has become much more modest since the late 1990s. A key factor to understand this new environment is the rise of China, offering the same conditions that made possible, 40 years ago, the Taiwan Miracle (a quiet political and social environment, cheap and educated workers, absence of independent trade unions). To keep growing, the Taiwanese economy must abandon its workforce intensive industries, which cannot compete with China, Vietnam or other sub-developed countries, and keep innovating and investing in information technology. Since the 1990s, Taiwanese companies have been permitted to invest in China, and a growing number of Taiwanese businessmen are demanding easier communications between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait.\n\nOne major difference with Taiwan is the focus on English education. Mirroring Hong Kong and Singapore, the ultimate goal is to become a country fluent in three languages (Taiwanese; Mandarin, the national language of both the communist People's Republic of China (PRC) and the Democratic industrialized Republic of China (Taiwan); and English, becoming a bridge between East and West).\n\nAccording to western financial markets, consolidation of the financial sector remains a concern as it continues at a slow pace, with the market split so small that no bank controls more than 10% of the market, and the Taiwanese government is obligated, by the WTO accession treaty, to open this sector between 2005 and 2008.\n\nHowever, many financial analysts estimate such concerns are based upon mirror-imaging of the Western model and do not take into account the already proven Asian Tiger model. Yet, recently, credit card debt has become a major problem, as the ROC does not have an individual bankruptcy law. Taiwan also remains undeveloped in some sectors, such as the lack of a bond market, a role that has been filled by small entrepreneur-oriented investment or direct investment by foreign persons.\n\nGenerally, transportation infrastructure is very good and continues to be improved, mainly in the west side of the island. Many infrastructure improvements are currently being pursued, such as the first rapid transit lines opening in Kaohsiung in 2008 and a doubling in size of Taipei's rapid transit system by 2013 now underway; the country's highways are very highly developed and in good maintenance and continue to be expanded, especially on the less developed and less populated east coast, and a controversial electronic toll system has recently been implemented.\n\nThe completion of the Taiwan High Speed Rail service connecting all major cities on the western coast, from Taipei to Kaohsiung is considered to be a major addition to Taiwan's transportation infrastructure. The ROC government has chosen to raise private financing in the building of these projects, going the build-operate-transfer route, but significant public financing has still been required and several scandals have been uncovered. Nevertheless, it is hoped that the completion of these projects will be a big economic stimulus, just as the subway in Taipei has revived the real estate market there.\n\nTaiwan continues to rely heavily on its technology sector, a specialist in manufacturing outsourcing. Recent developments include moving up the food chain in brand building and design. LCD manufacturing and LED lights are two newer sectors in which Taiwanese companies are moving. Taiwan also wants to move into the biotechnology sector, the creation of fluorescent pet fish and a research-useful fluorescent pig being two examples. Taiwan is also a leading grower of orchids.\n\nTaiwan’s information technology (IT) and electronics sector has been responsible for a vast supply of products since the 1980s. The Industrial Technology Research Institute (ITRI) was created in the 1973 to meet new demands from the burgeoning tech industry. This led to start-up companies like Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) and the construction of the Hsinchu Science and Industrial Park (HSP), which includes around 520 high-tech companies and 150,000 employees. By 2015, a bulk of the global market share of motherboards (89.9 percent), Cable CPE (84.5 percent), and Notebook PCs (83.5 percent) comprise both offshore and domestic production. It placed second in producing Transistor-Liquid Crystal Display (TFT-LCD panels) (41.4 percent) and third for LCD monitors (27 percent) and LED (19 percent). Nonetheless, Taiwan is still heavily reliant on offshore capital and technologies, importing up to US$25 billion worth of machinery and electrical equipment from Mainland China, US$16 billion from Japan, and US$10 billion from the U.S. In fact, the TFT-LCD industry in Taiwan grew primarily from state-guided personnel recruitment from Japan and inter-firm technology diffusion to fend off Korean competitors. This is due to Taiwan’s unique trend of export-oriented small and medium enterprises (SME) – a direct result of domestic-market prioritization by state-owned enterprises (SOE) in its formative years. While the development of SMEs allowed better market adaptability and inter-firm partnerships, most companies in Taiwan remained original equipment manufacturers (OEM) and did not – other than firms like Acer and Asus – expand to original design manufacturing (OBM). These SMEs provide “incremental innovation” with regard to industrial manufacturing but do not, according to Dieter Ernst of the East-West Centre, a think-tank in Honolulu, surpass the “commodity trap,” which stifles investment in branding and R&D projects.\n\nAfter the inauguration of the new Taiwanese president Tsai Ing-Wen, the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) enacted policies building on the continued global influence of Taiwan’s IT industry. To revamp and reinvigorate Taiwan’s slowing economy, her “5+2” innovative industries initiative aims to boost key sectors such as biotech, sustainable energy, national defense, smart machinery, and the “Asian Silicon Valley” project. President Tsai herself was the chairperson for TaiMed Biologics, a state-led start-up company for biopharmaceutical development with Morris Chang, the CEO of TSMC, as an external adviser. On 10 November 2016, the Executive Yuan formally endorsed a biomedical promotion plan with a budget of NT$10.94 billion (US$346.32 million). At the opening ceremony for the Asia Silicon Valley Development Agency (ASVDA) in December 2016, Vice President Chen Chien-jen emphasized the increasing importance of enhancing not only local R&D capabilities, but also appealing to foreign investment. For example, the HSP now focuses 40 percent of its total workforce on “R&D and technology development.” R&D expenditures have been gradually increasing: In 2006, it amounted to NT$307 billion, but it increased to NT$483.5 billion (US$16 billion) in 2014, approximately 3 percent of the GDP. The World Economic Forum’s Global Competitiveness Report 2017-2018 profiled up to 140 countries, listing Taiwan as 16th place in university-industry collaboration in R&D, 10th place in company spending on R&D, and 22nd place in capacity for innovation. Approved overseas Chinese and foreign investment totaled US$11 billion in 2016, a massive increase from US$4.8 billion in 2015. However, the Investment Commission of the Ministry of Economic Affairs’ (MOEAIC) monthly report from October 2017 estimated a decline in total foreign direct investment (between January and October 2017) to US$5.5 billion, which is a 46.09 percent decrease from the same time period of 2016 (US$10.3 billion).\n\nDebate on opening \"Three Links\" with the People's Republic of China were completed in 2008, with the security risk of economic dependence on mainland China being the biggest barrier. By decreasing transportation costs, it was hoped that more money will be repatriated to Taiwan and that businesses will be able to keep operations centers in Taiwan while moving manufacturing and other facilities to mainland China.\n\nA law forbidding any firm investing in the People's Republic of China more than 40% of its total assets on the mainland was dropped in June 2008, when the new KMT government relaxed the rules to invest in Mainland China. Dialogue through semi-official organisations (the SEF and the ARATS) reopened on 12 June 2008 on the basis of the 1992 Consensus, with the first meeting held in Beijing. Taiwan hopes to become a major operations center in East Asia.\n\nWhile China already has international free trade agreements (FTA) with numerous countries through bilateral relations and regional organizations, the “Beijing factor” has led to the deliberate isolation of Taiwan from potential FTAs. In signing the Economic Cooperation Framework Agreement (ECFA) with China on 29 June 2010 – which permitted trade liberalization and an “early harvest” list of tariff cuts – former president Ma Ying-jeou wanted to not only affirm a stable economic relationship with China, but also to assuage its antagonism towards Taiwan’s involvement in other FTAs. Taiwan later signed FTAs with two founding members of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) in 2013: New Zealand (ANZTEC) and Singapore (ASTEP). Exports to Singapore increased 5.6 percent between 2013 and 2014, but decreased 22 percent by 2016. In 2013, a follow-up bilateral trade agreement to the ECFA, the Cross-Strait Service Trade Agreement (CSSTA), faced large student-led demonstrations – the Sunflower Movement – in Taipei and an occupation of the Legislative Yuan. The opposition contended that the trade pact would hinder the competency of SMEs, which encompassed 97.73 percent of total enterprises in Taiwan in 2016. The TPP, on the other hand, still presents an opportunity for Taiwan. After the APEC economic leaders’ meeting in November 2017, President Tsai expressed deep support for the advancements made regarding the TPP – given that U.S. President Donald Trump pulled out of the trade deal earlier in the year. President Tsai has also promoted the “New Southbound Policy,” mirroring the “go south” policies upheld by former presidents Lee Teng-hui in 1993 and Chen Shui-Bian in 2002, focusing on partners in the Asia-Pacific region such as the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), Australia and New Zealand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21840631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21840631", "title": "Teatro del Libertador General San Martín", "text": "Teatro del Libertador General San Martín\n\nThe Teatro del Libertador General San Martín (or more commonly, Teatro del Libertador or Teatro Libertador) is the premier stage theatre, opera house and concert hall in Córdoba, Argentina.\n\nNoting the absence of a concert hall in his native Córdoba, Provincial Justice Minister Ramón J. Cárcano proposed the establishment of one to Governor Ambrosio Olmos in 1887. Securing the project's approval and funding from the Córdoba Legislature, Cárcano commissioned a fellow Italian Argentine, architect Francesco Tamburini, for the project's design. Creating an eclectic Italianate theatre, Tamburini's design was juxtaposed with Arturo Nembrini Gonzaga's interior verdigris accents, façade reliefs and quadriga, all nods to the Beaux Arts architecture so in demand in Argentina at the time. The entirety of the theatre's materials, fabrics and machinery was imported for the purpose from Europe.\n\nThe landmark institution was inaugurated on April 26, 1891, as the Rivera Indarte Theatre. Popularly known as the \"Teatro de la Calle Ancha\" (\"Broad Street Theatre\") during the early 20th century (Broad Street was later renamed Vélez Sársfield Avenue), the grand concert hall was designed for a capacity of 1,000 spectators. Its concert hall featured a rising floor to stage level, made available during the many social balls held there since then. Among the first prominent drama theatre directors to stage productions there was María Guerrero, who popularized the theatre of Spain in Argentina after 1897. Subsequent years saw numerous internationally renowned classical performers, as well, notably Enrico Caruso, Titta Ruffo, Tito Schipa and Arthur Rubinstein.\n\nThe theatre additionally houses the Luis de Tejeda and Rafael Grisolía halls, each with capacities of around 100 and mainly reserved for seminars, as well as for the theatre's Youth Orchestra. A museum of the institution's extensive stagecraft collection was organized into the Cristóbal de Aguilar Musical and Theatre Museum in 1970.\n\nThe institution was renamed in honor of General José de San Martín in 1950 by order of President Juan Perón on the occasion of the centennial of the Liberator's death. It was renamed \"Rivera Indarte\" in 1956 (following Perón's overthrow), and regained the San Martín denomination in 1973.\n\n"}
{"id": "59214401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59214401", "title": "Timeline of the war in Donbass (June 2018)", "text": "Timeline of the war in Donbass (June 2018)\n\nThis is a timeline of the War in Donbass, from 1 June 2018. The timeline follows an ongoing conflict between Ukraine and anti-government pro-Russian separatists supported by Russian troops in the Donbass region in eastern Ukraine.\n\nThe press-centre of the JFO headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 26 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 19 occasions in Donetsk region and on 7 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on about 10 occasions. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that three Ukrainian servicemen were wounded in the Donbass region on the last day of May. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city reported 15 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in nine different locations using small arms, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. The same authorities recorded 66 Ukrainian violations of the truce over the past week. The Ukrainian army fired five rounds from 122 self-propelled artillery, 313 from armoured fighting vehicles and 139 from 82 mm and 120 mm mortars on the same period. According to local sources, the Ukrainian military broke the ceasefire five times within the borders of the self-styled Luhansk People's Republic. The Ukrainian military employed small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars and BMP-1 armoured vehicles to engage pro-Russian positions at Kalynove, Veselehorivka, Pankivka and Lozove.\n\nBy the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 33, as a result, one Ukrainian serviceman was wounded. In the environs of Donetsk city, Ukrainian forces at Marinka, Berezove, Butivka mining complex and Krasnohorivka were attacked with small arms fire and antitank rockets. Ukrainian troops at Slavne were harassed with sniper fire. In the region of Mariupol, Chermalyk was hit by 122  artillery barrages, while 82  mortar volleys landed in Pavlopil. Rebel forces fired infantry weapons and grenade launchers at Ukrainian positions near Pishchevik, Marinka, Vodiane, Krasnohorivka, Hnutove, Pavlopil, Talakivka and Shyrokyne. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles engaged Ukrainian redoubts at Krymske. Novotoshkivke was shelled with 82  mortars. Troitske, Luhanske, Krymske and Zolote became the target of small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers. The OSCE Special Monitoring Mission to Ukraine reported that 10 civilians were killed and 25 injured in the Donbass region in May. Pro-Russian officials reported a number of Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire throughout the day. In the main incidents, Ukrainian shelling prevented for the third consecutive day the work at Donetsk's water purification plant near Yasynuvata, while troops at Kruta Balka were harassed by small arms and heavy machine gun fire. BMP-2 armoured fighting vehicles from Starohnativka riddled pro-Russian redoubts at Bela Kamianka with 30  gunfire.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the press-centre of the JFO headquarters in the morning pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 33 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 26 occasions in Donetsk region and on 7 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 20 occasions. By 11:00 am of 2 June nine ceasefire violations were registered, two Ukrainian soldiers were wounded. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that one Ukrainian serviceman was wounded in the Donbass region on the first day of June. Pro-Russian officials in Donetsk city recorded three Ukrainian violations of the truce. The Ukrainian military used small arms, heavy machine guns, 82  mortars and BMP-2 armoured vehicles to attack pro-Russian positions at Kruta Balka, Zaitseve and Bela Kamianka. No violations of the truce were reported by the self-styled Luhansk People's Republic.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the JFO press-centre in the evening, as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on multiple occasions, three Ukrainian servicemen were wounded. In the outskirts of Donetsk city, Opytne became the target of antitank rockets and antitank guided missiles. Ukrainian troops at Marinka, Taramchuk and Krasnohorivka were fired at from rocket launchers. Sniper activity was reported at Marinka and Avdiivka. In the region of Mariupol, Lebedinske, Vodiane and Chermalik came under 82 mm and 120 mm mortar fire, while rocket propelled grenades landed in Chermalyk, Vodiane, Hnutove, Lebedinske, Pavlopil and Shyrokyne. Ukrainian troops at Pavlopil were harassed by hostile snipers. In the northern section of the demarcation line, heavy shelling was reported around Krymske and Luhanske, which were shelled with rocket launchers, 82 mm mortars and 122 mm self-propelled artillery. Ukrainian positions in the area were also engaged by pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles. Yuzhne, Zaitseve and Novotoskivke were struck by small arms fire, heavy machine gun fire and 82 mm mortar volleys. By the end of the day total 28 ceasefire violations were registered. Pro-Russian authorities told the press that Ukrainian forces had broken the ceasefire on several occasions by evening. Yasynuvata, Dokuchaievsk, Yakovliivka and Vasiilivka, in the environs of Donetsk city, Gagarin mining complex, Zaitseve, Shyroka Balka and Holmivsky, in the area of Horlivka, and in the region of Mariupol, Bela Kamianka, Nikolaevka and Uzhivka came under attack. In the main incidents, 120 mm mortar rounds landed in Yasynuvata, Dokuchaievsk, Yakovliivka, Zaitseve, Holmivsky and Nikolaevka. Zaitseve and Uzhivka were also hit by 82 mm mortar fire. BMP-2 armoured fighting vehicles from Novotroitske and Starohnativka riddled pro-Russian positions at Dokuchaievsk and Bela Kamianka with 30  gunfire. Zaitseve, Gagarin mining complex and Shyroka Balka were targeted by 73  antitank recoilless rifles.\n\nThe press-centre of the JFO headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 28 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 23 occasions in Donetsk region and on 5 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 12 occasions. By morning of 3 June four ceasefire violations were registered with no casualties on the Ukrainian side; the fire was returned twice. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that three Ukrainian servicemen were wounded in the Donbass region on 2 June. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city reported 20 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in ten different locations using small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. Sources from the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic recorded four Ukrainian violations of the truce within the republic's borders. Ukrainian forces engaged pro-Russian positions at Kalynynove, Sokolniki, Donetskyi and Zholobok using small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars and BMP-1 armoured vehicles.\n\nBy the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 27, with no casualties on the Ukrainian side. In the area around Donetsk city, Novotroitske and Avdiivka came under 120 mm and 82 mm mortar fire respectively. Infantry weapons and grenade launchers were fired at Marinka, Krasnohorivka, Taramchuk, Avdiivka and Novotroitske. In the region of Mariupol, 122 mm self-propelled artillery and 82  mortars shelled Hnutove. Pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles opened fire on Ukrainian positions at Vodiane, while 120 mm mortar volleys struck Lebedinske. Ukrainian troops at Shyrokyne, Vodiane, Novotroitske, Avdiivka, Hnutovo, Nikolaevka, Pavlopil and Lebedinske became the target of small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, rebel forces opened fire on Ukrainian positions at Zolote, Zaitseve, Krymske, Yuzhne and Novoluhanske. Later, Zaitseve was hit by 82 mm mortar rounds. Pro-Russian authorities recorded multiple ceasefire violations by Ukrainian forces throughout the day. The Ukrainian military attacked Dokuchaievsk, Spartak and Trudivske, in the surroundings of Donetsk city, Zaitseve, in the area of Horlivka, and in the region of Mariupol, Nova Tavriya, Uzhivka, Pikuzy, Dzerzhinske, Sakhanka and Bezimenne. In the main incidents, Dokuchaievsk was repeatedly shelled with 73 mm antitank rifles and 120 mm mortars; power lines, gas pipelines and a number of houses were heavily damaged. Pro-Russian redoubts at Pikuzy were engaged by 122 mm self-propelled guns firing from Talakivka. Pikuzy was also targeted by 82 mm and 120 mm mortars; 120 mm mortar rounds also landed in Nova Tavriya. Zaitseve, Spartak, Sakhanka and Bezimenne came under 82  mortar fire. The same sources also reported that Ukrainian troops planted antitank mines along the approaches of Donetsk's water purification plant.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the press-centre of the JFO headquarters in the morning pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 27 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 21 occasions in Donetsk region and on 6 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 13 occasions. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence reported at noon no casualties in the Donbass region on 3 June. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city reported 16 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in ten different locations using small arms, snipers, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars and 122 mm self-propelled artillery. One pro-Russian soldier was killed. According to local sources, the Ukrainian military broke the ceasefire seven times within the boundaries of the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic. The Ukrainian forces engaged pro-Russian positions at Lozove, Kalynove, Prishib and Kalynivka employing heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars and 120 mm mortars.\n\nThe press-centre of the Joint Forces Operation (JFO) reported in the evening that as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian troops had opened fire on Ukrainian troops on 10 occasions, no casualties were reported. By the end of the day total 30 ceasefire violations were registered with no casualties on the Ukrainian side. In the surroundings of Donetsk city, pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles launched an attack on Ukrainian positions at Avdiivka. Ukrainian forces near Avdiivka and Pisky were fired at from ZU-23-2 antiaircraft guns some hours later. Novotroitske was shelled with 82 mm and 120 mm mortars. Ukrainian troops at Nevelske, Marinka and Krasnohorivka were attacked with small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers. In the region of Mariupol, rebel forces used infantry weapons and grenade launchers to harass Ukrainian troops at Pavlopil, Lebedinske and Vodiane. In the northern section of the demarcation line, 122 mm self-propelled gund fired on Ukrainian redoubts at Novotoshkivke; the same positions were hit by 82 mm and 120 mm mortar rounds. Zaitseve and Krymske received 82 mm mortar fire. In addition, Ukrainian positions at Lozove, Krymske and Luhanske were hit by small arms fire, heavy machine gun fire and antitank rockets. Hours later, Krymske came under attack from armoured fighting vehicles supported by small arms, rocket launchers, 82 mm and 120  mortars. Pro-Russian authorities told the press that Ukrainian forces broke the ceasefire on several occasions throughout the day. The Ukrainian army attacked pro-Russian positions around Yasynuvata, Trudivske, Dokuchaievsk, Spartak and Zhabicheve, in the outskirts of Donetsk city, Zaitseve, Ozeryanivka, Dolomitne and Gagarin mining complex, in the area of Horlivka and Novomakiivka, in the region of Mariupol. In the main incidents, Zaitseve was repeatedly targeted by small arms, automatic grenade launchers, antitank rockets and 120 mm mortars. Spartak and Zhabicheve were hit by 82 mm mortar rounds, while BMP-2 armoured vehicles from Hranitne and Novotroitske engaged pro-Russian redoubts at Novomakiivka and Dokuchaievsk.\n\nThe press-centre of the JFO headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 30 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 19 occasions in Donetsk region and on 11 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 17 occasions. By 11:00 am of 5 June eleven ceasefire violations were registered and one Orlan-10 drone was shot down. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence reported at noon no casualties in the Donbass region on 4 June. Pro-Russian sources at Donetsk city reported 16 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in ten different locations using small arms, heavy machine guns, snipers, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. According to local officials, Ukrainian forces broke the ceasefire on four occasions within the boundaries of the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic. The Ukrainian military employed small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenades launchers, antitank rocket launchers, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars and BMP-1 armoured vehicles to pound pro-Russian redoubts at Zholobok, Donetskyi, and Kalynivka.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the JFO press-centre in the evening, as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 17 occasions, two Ukrainian servicemen were wounded; by the end of the day total 31 ceasefire violations were registered, one more Ukrainain soldier was wounded. In the outskirts of Donetsk city, pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles opened fire on Ukrainian positions supported by 82  mortar fire; 82  mortar volleys also landed in Novotroitske. Infantry weapons and rocket launchers were used to harass Ukrainiian troops at Krasnohorivka, Avdiivka, Pisky, Berezove, Verkhnyotoretske and Marinka. In the region of Mariupol, Ukrainian forces at Talakivka, Pavlopil, Vodiane, Shyrokyne, Pyshchevik and Hnutove became the target of small arms, heavy machine guns and grenade launchers. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles engaged Ukrainian redoubts around Krymske supported by heavy machine guns, grenade launchers, 82 mm and 120 mm mortar fire. Novotoshkivke became the target of 82 mm and 120 mm mortars, while Luhanske, Stanytsia Luhanska and Orekhove were struck by small arms fire, heavy machine gun fire and antitank rockets. Sources from the self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic reported multiple ceasefire violations by Ukrainian forces throughout the day. Dokuchaievsk, Spartak and Donetsk airport, in the surroundings of Donetsk city, and in the area of Horlivka, Zaitseve and Shyroka Balka, came under attack. Dokuchaievsk was shelled with 120 mm mortars, while Spartak and Donetsk airport came under 82 mm mortar fire. BMP-1 armoured vehicles from Novhorodske launched an attack on pro-Russian positions at Shyroka Balka. BMP-2 armoured vehicles from Novotroitske raked pro-Russian redoubts at Dokuchaievsk with 30 mm gunfire. Donetsk airport was targeted by 73 mm antitank recoilless guns.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the press-centre of the JFO headquarters in the morning pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 31 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 21 occasions in Donetsk region and on 10 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 16 occasions. By 9:00 am of 6 June three ceasefire violations were registered. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that three Ukrainian servicemen were wounded in the Donbass region on 5 June. Pro-Russian sources at Donetsk city said that there were seven Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in five different locations using small arms, antitank rocket launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. Sources from the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic recorded four Ukrainian violations of the truce within the republic's borders. Ukrainian forces engaged pro-Russian positions at Kalynynivka, Sokolniki and Zholobok using small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars and BMP-1 armoured vehicles.\n\nThe press-centre of the Joint Forces Operation (JFO) reported in the evening that as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian troops had opened fire on Ukrainian troops on 7 occasions, no casualties were reported. Ukrainian forces fired back. By the end of the day total 25 ceasefire violations were registered, as a result, two Ukrainian servicemen were killed and two were wounded. In the environs of Donetsk city, 82 mm and 120 mm mortar volleys hit Opytne. Pro-Russian armed forces harassed Ukrainian troops with small arms and machine gun fire at Marinka, Nevelske and Avdiivka. In the region of Mariupol, Ukrainian positions at Shyrokyne, Pyshchevik, Hnutove, Pavlopil and Vodiane became the target of infantry weapons. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles engaged Ukrainian redoubts at Krymske, Novozvanivka and Luhanske, supported by small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers. Some hours later, 82 mm and 120 mm mortar volleys landed in Novotoshkivke, while 82 mm mortars were fired at Krymske. Pro-Russian authorities told the press that Ukrainian forces had attacked Yasynuvata with small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers and 82  mortars during the evening. Donetsk's water purification plant was put out of commission. Several power lines were damaged. Zaitseve became the target of small arms and 73 mm antitank recoilless guns.\n\nThe press-centre of the JFO headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 25 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 21 occasions in Donetsk and on 4 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 15 occasions. By 9:00 am of 7 June seven ceasefire violations were registered, with no casualties on the Ukrainian side. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that two Ukrainian servicemen were killed in action and another two were wounded in the Donbass region on 6 June. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city reported three Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in two locations using small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles and 82 mm mortars. Authorities from the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic recorded five Ukrainian violations of the truce within the republic's borders. Ukrainian forces engaged pro-Russian positions at Pankivka, Kalynove, Lozove, Donetskyi and Molodezhne using small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars and BMP-1 armoured vehicles.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the JFO press-centre in the evening, as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 17 occasions, two Ukrainian servicemen were wounded in action. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 37, another two Ukrainian servicemen were wounded. in the outskirts of Donetsk city, Ukrainian forces at Opytne were engaged by snipers and armoured fighting vehicles. The separatists fired heavy machine guns and rocket propelled grenades at Marinka, Nevelske, Avdiivka, Pisky, Novotroitske, Novoselivka and Kamianka. In the region of Mariupol, heavy shelling was reported at Vodiane, which became the target of 120 mm mortars and 122  self-propelled guns. Lebedinske came under 82 mm and 120 mm mortar fire. Ukrainian troops at Shyrokyne, Hnutove, Vodiane and Pavlopil were fired at from heavy machine guns and rocket launchers. Pro-Russian tanks launched a sustained attack on Ukrainian redoubts Novotoshkivke, in the northern section of the demarcation line, supported by heavy machine guns, rocket launchers, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, armoured fighting vehicles and 122 mm self-propelled artillery. The nearby strongholds of Zaitseve and Krymske were shelled with 82  mortars. Ukrainian positions at Krymske, Novozvanivka, Luhanske, Lozove and Troitske came under fire from small arms, heavy machine guns and armoured fighting vehicles. Pro-Russian sources reported a number of Ukrainian violations of the truce by evening. Ukrainian forces opened fire at Zaitseve, in the area of Horlivka, and, in the region of Mariupol, at Sakhanka and Pikuzy. Pro-Russian positions at Zaitseve were targeted by 73  antitank recoilless guns for the second consecutive day. The area was also hit by automatically launched grenades and antitank rockets. Sakhanka was meanwhile attacked with antitank guided missiles, and Pikuzy was struck by 120 mm mortar rounds fired from Shyrokyne. In the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic, mortar rounds landed in a street of Holubovske, hitting a bus and seriously injuring six civilian residents.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the press-centre of the JFO headquarters in the morning pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 37 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 23 occasions in Donetsk region and on 14 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on about 20 occasions. By 9:00 am of 8 June seven ceasefire violations were registered, as a result, two Ukrainian soldiers were wounded. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that four Ukrainian servicemen were wounded in the Donbass region on 7 June. Pro-Russian authorities at Donetsk city reported four Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in four locations using small arms, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars and antitank guided missiles. The same sources said that Ukrainian forces broke the truce 68 times over the past week. The Ukrainian army fired seven shells from 122 mm self-propelled artillery, 26 from 82 mm and 120 mm mortars and 203 rounds from armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. Officials from the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic recorded five Ukrainian violations of the truce within the republic's borders. Ukrainian forces engaged pro-Russian positions at Kalynove, Holubovske, Donetskyi and Zholobok using small arms, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars and BMP-1 armoured vehicles.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the JFO press-centre in the evening, as of 5:00 pm pro-Russian military forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 17 occasions. By the end of the day total 38 ceasefire violations were registered, as a result, six Ukrainian servicemen were wounded. Around Donetsk city, pro-Russian forces opened fire on Ukrainian positions at Krasnohorivka and Marinka with small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers. Sniper fire was reported at Krasnohorivka. In the region of Mariupol, 120 mm mortar rounds hit Vodiane and Shyrokyne. The separatists used infantry weapons and grenade launchers to attack Ukrainian positions at Pavlopil, Marinka and Hnutove. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles engaged Ukrainian forces at Krymske and Novotoshkivke, supported by small arms, heavy machine guns, rocket launchers, 82 mm and 120 mm mortars. Infantry weapons, grenade launchers, 82 mm and 120 mm mortars were also fired at Zalizne, Katerinivka, Luhanske and Zaitseve. Multiple Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire were reported by pro-Russian sources throughout the day. Yasynuvata and Mineralne, in the outskirts of Donetsk city, Zaitseve and Gagarin mining complex, in the area of Horlivka, and Sakhanka, in the region of Mariupol, came under attack. In the main incidents, Sakhanka was hit by 82 mm and 120 mm mortar rounds, while 82 mm mortar volleys landed in Mineralne, Zaitseve and Gagarin mining complex. Pro-Russian positions at Yasynuvata were hit by 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles. Two civilian residents were wounded.\n\nThe press-centre of the JFO headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 38 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 24 occasions in Donetsk and on 14 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 17 occasions. By morning of 9 June six ceasefire violations were registered with no casualties on the Ukrainian side; the fire was returned on 4 occasions. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that six Ukrainian servicemen were wounded in the Donbass region on 8 June. Pro-Russian sources at Donetsk city reported eight Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in six locations using small arms, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars and 120 mm mortars. In the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic, local officials reported three Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire. The Ukrainian military used small arms, rocket launchers, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars and BMP-1 armoured vehicles to pound pro-Russian positions at Krasnyi Yar and Donetskyi.\n\nThe press-centre of the Joint Forces Operation (JFO) reported in the evening that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 10 occasions, one Ukrainian serviceman was wounded. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 30, another Ukrainian serviceman was wounded. In the area of Donetsk city, Novoselivka was shelled with 120 mm mortars, while Opytne and Pisky were hit by 82 mm mortar volleys. Marinka and Novotroitske was hit by heavy machine gun fire and rocket propelled grenades. In the region of Mariupol, pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles opened fire on Ukrainian positions at Pyshchevik, while infantry weapons and grenade launchers were used to harass Ukrainian troops at Pavlopil, Hnutove, Vodiane and Lebedinske. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, Novotoshkivke was shelled with 120 mm mortars. Ukrainian positions at Krymske, Novozvanivka, Luhanske, Svitlodarsk and Zolote were fired at from small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers. Pro-Russian authorities told the press that Ukrainian forces had broken the ceasefire several times by evening. The Ukrainian military attacked Yakovliivka, Dokuchaievsk, Vasiilivka and Yasynuvata, in the surroundings of Donetsk city, and Zaitseve, in the area of Horlivka. In the main incidents, Zaitseve, Yakovliivka and Yasynuvata became the target of 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles and 82 mm mortars. Sniper fire was reported at Vasiilivka, where a civilian woman was wounded.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the press-centre of the JFO headquarters in the morning pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 30 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 22 occasions in Donetsk region and on 8 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 20 occasions. By morning of 10 June (as of 9:00 am) five ceasefire violations were registered; the fire was returned at least once. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that two Ukrainian servicemen were wounded in the Donbass region on 9 June. Pro-Russian authorities at Donetsk city reported six Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in six locations using small arms, heavy machine guns, snipers, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm and 120 mm mortars. According to local officials, Ukrainian forces broke the ceasefire on two occasions within the boundaries of the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic. The Ukrainian military employed small arms, heavy machine guns, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles and BMP-1 armoured vehicles to attack pro-Russian positions at Kalynove and Lozove.\n\nThe press-centre of the JFO reported in the evening that as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 7 occasions, no casualties were reported. By the end of the day total 32 ceasefire violations were registered, as a result, three Ukrainian servicemen were wounded. In the surroundings of Donetsk city, 82 mm mortar rounds hit Opytne. Ukrainian forces at Avdiivka, Krasnohorivka, Marinka, Verkhnyotoretske and Novotroitske became the target of heavy machine guns and grenade launchers. In the region of Mariupol, Lebedinske and Vodiane were struck by 82 mm and 120 mm mortar barrages. Pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles attacked Pavlopil supported by 120 mm mortar fire. The separatists fired heavy machine guns and rocket launchers at Ukrainian positions around Hnutove, Talakivka, Shyrokyne and Pavlopil. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, heavy shlling was reported at Novotoshkivke, which was pounded by 120 mm mortars and 122 mm self-propelled artillery. Ukrainian positions at Luhanske, Orekhove, Mayorsk and Zaitseve were attacked with infantry weapons and rocket launchers. Pro-Russian officials reported a number of Ukrainian violations of the truce by evening. Trudivske and Dokuchaievsk, in the outskirts of Donetsk city, and, in the area of Horlivka, Verkhnyotoretske and Gagarin mining complex came under hostile fire. In the main incidents, BMP-1 armoured vehicles from Marinka launched an attack on Trudivske supported by 82 mm and 120 mm mortar fire; several civilian residences were damaged. Gagarin mining complex, meanwhile, became the target of automatic grenade launchers, ZU-23-2 antiaircraft guns, 82 mm and 120 mm mortars. Dokuchaievsk and Verkhnyotoretske were fired at from 73 mm antitank recoilless guns. Pro-Russian troops recovered and handed back the corpses of two Ukrainian fighters killed in no-man's land on 28 May near Pisky. Work at Donetsk water purification plant resumed work as usual after three days of inactivity. The facilities had been left without power after heavy shelling on 7 May.\n\nThe press-centre of the JFO headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 32 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 23 occasions in Donetsk and on 9 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 20 occasions. By morning of 11 June three ceasefire violations were registered with no casualties on the Ukrainian side (as of 7:00 am). The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that three Ukrainian servicemen were wounded in the Donbass region on 10 June. Pro-Russian sources at Donetsk city reported four Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in four locations using small arms, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, antiaircraft guns and BMP-1 armoured vehicles. Authorities from the self-styled Luhansk People's Republic said that Ukrainian forces broke the ceasefire on one occasion within the republic's borders, when 73  antitank recoilless guns from Prichepilivka were fired at Zholobok.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the press-centre of the JFO headquarters in the evening as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 10 occasions, one Ukrainian serviceman was wounded in action. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 27, another two Ukrainian servicemen were wounded. In the environs of Donetsk city, 82 mm and 120 mm mortars were fired at Ukrainian positions around Kamianka, Novotroitske and Pisky. Separatist troops fired infantry weapons and rocket launchers at Ukrainian forces holding Avdiivka, Kamianka and Marinka. In the region of Mariupol, 122 mm artillery barrages struck Shyrokyne, and 82 mm mortar volleys landed in Vodiane and Lomakine. Hours later, Hnutove, Vodiane and Lomakine came under attack from armoured fighting vehicles. Infantry weapons and grenade lanchers were used to harass Ukrainian troops at Pavlopil and Hnutove. In the northern section of the demarcation line, 122 mm self-propelled guns shelled Novotoshkivke; the Ukrainian stronghold was also hit by 120 mm mortar rounds, as well as Svitlodarsk. Nearby Troitske became the target of 82  mortars. Pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles, supported by small arms and heavy machine guns, opened fire on Novozvanivka, Svitlodarsk and Popasna. Pro-Russian officials told the press that Ukrainian forces broke the ceasefire on a number of occasions throughout the day. Spartak, Volvo Center and Dokuchaievsk, in the outskirts of Donetsk city, and Uzhivka, in the region of Mariupol, were the scene of Ukrainian attacks. In the main incidents, Spartak and Volvo Center were hit by 120 mm mortar fire; two civilian workers were seriously injured. BMP-2 armoured vehicles from Novotroitske raked pro-Russian positions at Dokuchaievsk with 30 mm gunfire.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the press-centre of the JFO headquarters in the morning pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 27 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 18 occasions in Donetsk region and on 9 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 14 occasions. By morning of 12 June (as of 9:00 am) six ceasefire violations were registered, as a result, two Ukrainian servicemen were injured. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that three Ukrainian servicemen were wounded in the Donbass region on 11 June. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city reported six Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in six different locations using small arms, snipers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. one pro-Russian soldier was killed in action. According to local sources, Ukrainian forces broke the ceasefire four times within the boundaries of the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic. The Ukrainian military employed small arms, rocket launchers, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles and 82 mm mortars to attack pro-Russian redoubts at Kalynove, Kalynove-Borshchevate and Lozove.\n\nThe press-centre of the Joint Forces Operation (JFO) reported in the evening that as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian troops had opened fire on Ukrainian troops on 11 occasions, By the end of the day total 32 ceasefire violations were registered, In the surroundings of Donetsk city, Novotroitske was hit by 120 mm mortar volleys. Pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles opened fire on Ukrainian positions at Marinka supported by infantry weapons. Ukrainian forces at Avdiivka, Opytne and Novotroitske, were harassed with small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers. In the region of Mariupol, 120 mm mortar barrages hit Vodiane, while Hnutove came under 82 mm mortar fire. Lomakine, Hnutove, Shyrokyne, Pavlopil, Verkhnyotoretske, Lebedinske and Talakivka were fired at by small arms, heavy machine guns and grenade launchers. In the northern section of the demarcation line, 120 mm mortar barrages struck Novotoshkivke, and 82 mm mortar rounds landed in Krymske and Luhanske. Small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket propelled grenades were fired at Troitske, Zaitseve, Zolote and Stanytsia Luhanska. One Ukrainian serviceman was killed by a sniper bullet at Novhorodske. The Ukrainian military claimed that one pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicle was destroyed, and five pro-Russian fighters killed. Another four were reported wounded. A number of Ukrainian attacks on pro-Russian positions were recorded by pro-Russian authorities at evening. Dokuchaievsk, in the southern outskirts of Donetsk city, Ozeryanivka and Verkhnyotoretske, in the area of Horlivka, and Uzhivka, in the region of Mariupol, came under hostile fire. In the main incidents, Uzhivka was shelled with 120 mm mortars while Verkhnyotoretske became the target of 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles.\n\nThe press-centre of the JFO headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 32 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 21 occasions in Donetsk and on 11 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 20 occasions. By 9:00 am of 13 June eight ceasefire violations were registered, two Ukrainian servicemen were wounded. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that one Ukrainian soldier was killed and two others were injured in the Donbass region on 12 June. Pro-Russian sources at Donetsk city reported nine Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in eight different locations using small arms, snipers, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 120 mm mortars and 122 mm self-propelled guns. One pro-Russian soldier was killed and two civilians were wounded. According to local authorities, Ukrainian forces broke the ceasefire four times within the boundaries of the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic. The Ukrainian military employed small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars and BMP-1 armoured vehicles to engage pro-Russian redoubts at Kalynove, Sokolniki, Lohvynove and Donetskyi.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the press-centre of the JFO headquarters in the evening as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 14 occasions. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 33, total four Ukrainian servicemen were wounded. In the outskirts of Donetsk city, 82 mm mortar volleys fired from Spartak struck Avdiivka, while infantry weapons and rocket launchers were used to harass Ukrainian positions at Verkhnyotoretske and Marinka. Sniper fire was reported at Krasnohorivka. Hours later, Novotroitske was shelled with 120 mm mortars firing from Dokuchaievsk. In the region of Mariupol, Ukrainian redoubts at Vodiane were engaged by 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, armoured fighting vehicles and 122 mm self-propelled artillery. Talakivka was shelled with 120 mm mortars. Ukrainian troops at Hnutove, Pavlopil, Shyrokyne and Lebedinske became the target of small arms, heavy machine guns and grenade launchers. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, 122 mm self-propelled guns firing from Holubovske pounded Ukrainian positions at Novotoshkivke. Novozvanivka was meanwhile struck by 120 mm mortar fire, and 82 mm mortar rounds landed in Novooleksandrivka and Novotoshkivke. Pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles engaged Ukrainian forces at Yuzhne, Hladosove, Zolote, Zaitseve and Luhanske, supported by infantry weapons. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city told the press that Ukrainian forces had broken the ceasefire on multiple occasions by evening. Spartak, in the surroundings of Donetsk city, Zaitseve, in the area of Horlivka, and in the region of Mariupol, Pikuzy and Uzhivka, came under hostile fire. In the main incidents, Ukrainian tanks from Talakivka launched an attack on pro-Russian redoubts at Pikuzy; the same area was shelled by 122 mm self-propelled artillery. Uzhivka was hit by 120 mm mortar volleys. BMP-2 armoured vehicles from Avdiivka and Starohnativka opened fire on pro-Russian positions at Spartak and Novolaspa. Zaitseve became the target of 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the press-centre of the JFO headquarters in the morning pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 33 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 21 occasions in Donetsk region and on 12 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 21 occasions. By morning of 14 June several ceasefire violations were registered with no casualties on the Ukrainian side. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that four Ukrainian servicemen were wounded in the Donbass region on 13 June. Pro-Russian sources at Donetsk city reported seven Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in five different locations using small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, armoured personnel carriers, armoured fighting vehicles and tanks. Officials from the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic recorded five Ukrainian violations of the truce within the republic's borders. Ukrainian forces engaged pro-Russian positions at Kalynove, Kalynivka and Donetskyi using heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 120 mm mortars and BMP-1 armoured vehicles.\n\nThe press-centre of the JFO reported in the evening that as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian military had opened fire on Ukrainian troops on 10 occasions, with no casualties on the Ukrainian side. By the end of the day total 33 ceasefire violations were registered, as a result, two Ukrainian servicemen were killed and six were wounded. In the environs of Donetsk city, Avdiivka and Opytne came under 82  mortar fire; nearby Krasnohorivka became the target of small arms, heavy machine guns and grenade launchers. In the region of Mariupol, heavy shelling was reported at Bohdanivka and Lebedinske, which were shelled with 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars and 122 mm self-propelled artillery. Vodiane was also hit by 120 mm mortars and 122 mm artillery. Ukrainian forces at Pavlopil were engaged by armoured fighting vehicles supported by small arms fire. Talakivka, Hnutove and Shyrokyne were struck by small arms fire, heavy machine gun fire and rocket propelled grenades. In the northern section of the demarcation line, 82 mm and 120 mm mortar volleys and 122 mm artillery barrages hit Novotoshkivke. Pro-Russian tanks from Holubovske launched a sustained attack on Ukrainian redoubts at the same area. Luhanske, Troitske, Orekhove and Yuzhne were also the target of 82 mm and 120  mm mortars. Multiple ceasefire violations by Ukrainian forces were reported by pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city. The Ukrainian military attacked Dokuchaievsk, in the outskirts of Donetsk city, Gagarin mining complex and Zaitseve, in the area of Horlivka, and in the region of Mariupol, Sakhanka, Uzhivka, Petrovske, Styla and Pikuzy. In the main incidents, 120 mm mortar barrages hit Uzhivka, Petrovske and Sakhanka. Pikuzy and Sakhanka were also shelled with 82 mm mortars. Ukrainian tanks from Bohdanivka engaged pro-Russian redoubts at Styla, while BMP-2 armoured vehicles from Novotroitske riddled pro-Russian defences at Dokuchaievsk with 30 mm gunfire. BMP-1 armoured vehicles shelled Gagarin coal mine supported by automatic grenade launchers. Heavy shelling was reported at Kirovsk, within the boundaries of the self-styled Luhansk People's Republic.\n\nThe press-centre of the JFO headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 33 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 26 occasions in Donetsk and on 7 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 16 occasions. By morning of 15 June ten ceasefire violations were registered. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that two Ukrainian servicemen were killed and another six were wounded in the Donbass region on 14 June. Pro-Russian authorities at Donetsk city recorded 12 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in seven different locations using small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, armoured personnel carriers, armoured fighting vehicles, tanks and 152 mm self-propelled artillery. One civilian resident was wounded. The same report says that Ukrainian forces committed 52 ceasefire violations over the past week. They fired eleven shells from 152 mm and 122 mm self-propelled artillery, 200 shells from 120 mm and 82 mm mortars, nine tank rounds and 183 shots from armoured fighting vehicles and armoured personnel carriers on the same period. Two pro-Russian soldiers were killed and another wounded. According to local sources, the Ukrainian military broke the ceasefire four times within the borders of the self-styled Luhansk People's Republic. The Ukrainian forces attacked pro-Russian positions at Kalynove, Kalynivka and Donetskyi using heavy machine guns, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 120 mm mortars and BMP-1 armoured vehicles.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the press-centre of the JFO headquarters in the evening as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 15 occasions, no casualties were reported. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 36, one Ukrainian soldier was wounded. in the outskirts of Donetsk city, Ukrainian troops Avdiivka and Marinka became the target of small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers. In the region of Mariupol, Bohdanivka, Vodiane, Lebedinske and Talakivka were shelled with 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars and 122 mm self-propelled artillery. Pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles opened fire on Ukrainian positions at Hnutove, while infantry weapons and grenade launchers were used to harass Ukrainian forces at Pavlopil, Shyrokyne, Talakivka, Vodiane, Lebedinske Hnutove and Chermalyk. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, armoured fighting vehicles engaged Ukrainian positions near Luhanske, while 82 mm mortar rounds landed in Novotoshkivke and Troitske. Separatist forces opened fire on Ukrainian positions at Svitlodarsk, Luhanske, Novhorodske, Zaitseve, Novotoshkivke and Troitske using small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers. Hours later,larmoured fighting vehicles launched attacks on Ukrainian positions at Zaitseve, Novotoshkivke and Zolote. Pro-Russian officials told the press that Ukrainian forces had broken the ceasefire on several occasions by evening. Dokuchaievsk and Kruta Balka, in the surroundings of Donetsk city, Zaitseve and Dolomitne in the area of Horlivka, and in the region of Mariupol, Sakhanka, Pikuzy and Nova Tavrya came under hostile fire. In the main incidents, Pikuzy and Nova Tavrya came under 120 mm mortar fire, while 82 mm mortars were employed to shell Dolomitne, Kruta Balka and Sakhanka. BMP-1 armoured vehicles from Vodiane and Novoluhanske engaged pro-Russian positions at Pikuzy and Dolomitne, while BMP-2 armoured vehicles from Novotroitske raked pro-Russian redoubts at Pikuzy with 30 mm gunfire. Two civilian residents were wounded.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the press-centre of the JFO headquarters in the morning pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 36 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 24 occasions in Donetsk region and on 12 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 15 occasions. By morning of 16 June (as of 9:00 am) ten ceasefire violations were registered with no casualties on the Ukrainian side; the fire was returned on five occasions. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence reported at noon that one Ukrainian serviceman was wounded in the Donbass region on 15 June. Pro-Russian authorities at Donetsk city recorded nine Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in eight different locations using small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless guns, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, antiaircraft guns, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. According to local officials, Ukrainian forces broke the ceasefire on three occasions within the boundaries of the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic. The Ukrainian military employed small arms, heavy machine guns, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars and BMP-1 armoured vehicles to attack pro-Russian positions at Kalynove and Lozove.\n\nThe press-centre of the Joint Forces Operation (JFO) reported in the evening that as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian troops had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 13 occasions, no casualties were reported. By the end of the day total 27 ceasefire violations were registered, two Ukrainian servicemen were wounded. In the area of Donetsk city, separatist forces opened fire on Ukrainian troops at Marinka, Krasnohorivka, Avdiivka and Verkhnyotoretske with small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers. In the region of Mariupol, pro-Russian tanks from Sosnovske launched an attack on Ukrainian redoubts at Pavlopil supported by 82 mm and 120 mm mortar fire. Novohryhorivka was shelled by armoured fighting vehicles, while Ukrainian positions at Talakivka, Hnutove, Chermalyk, Shyrokyne, Vodiane, Lebedinske and Pyshchevik became the target of infantry weapons and rocket propelled grenades. In the northern section of the demarcation line, pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles opened fire on Zolote, while nearby Troitske came under 120 mm mortar fire. Novotoshkivke was hit by 82 mm mortar rounds. Zaitseve and Stanytsia Luhanska were fired at by small arms, heavy machine guns and grenade launchers. A number of Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire were reported by pro-Russian sources at Donetsk city throughout the day. Abakumove coal mine and Dokuchaievsk, in the surroundings of Donetsk city, and in the region of Mariupol, Bela Kamianka, Styla and Pikuzy came under fire. In the main incidents, Dokuchaievsk was hit by 82 mm mortar rounds, while BMP-1 armoured vehicles from Nikolaevka and Talakivka engaged pro-Russian forces at Styla and Pikuzy. BMP-2 armoured vehicles from Novohryhorivka riddled separatists positions at Bela Kamianka with 30 mm gunfire.\n\nThe press-centre of the JFO headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 27 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 19 occasions in Donetsk and on 7 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 9 occasions. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that two Ukrainian servicemen were wounded in the Donbass region on 16 June. Pro-Russian sources at Donetsk city reported seven Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in six different locations using small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. According to local officials, Ukrainian forces broke the ceasefire three times within the boundaries of the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic. The Ukrainian military employed 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars and BMP-1 armoured vehicles to attack pro-Russian redoubts at Kalynove and Donetskyi.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the press-centre of the JFO headquarters in the evening as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops once, no casualties were reported. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 20, one Ukrainian serviceman was wounded at Krymske. In the outskirts of Donetsk city, Pisky came under 82 mm mortar fire, while Ukrainian positions at Avdiivka were hit by heavy machine gun fire and antitank rockets. In the region of Mariupol, heavy shelling was reported at Starohnativka, which was struck by 120 mm mortar barrages fired from Novolaspa. The separatists employed heavy machine guns and grenade launchers to harass Ukrainian troops at Pyshchevik, Shyrokyne, Hnutove, Vodiane and Lebedinske. In the northern section of the demarcation line, Krymske and Novotoshkivke became the target of 120 mm mortars firing from Zholobok. Some hours later, Krymske was also shelled from 82 mm mortars. Pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles engaged Ukrainian forces at Hladosove supported by small arms and heavy machine gun fire. In the self-styled Donetsk People's Republic, pro-Russian authorities told the press that Ukrainian forces had broken the ceasefire on two occasions by evening, one around Donetsk city and another in the region of Mariupol. BMP-1 armoured vehicles engaged pro-Russian positions at Dokuchaievsk from Mykolaevka, while BMP-2 armoured vehicles from Starohnativka opened fire at Novolaspa.\n\nThe Press Center of the Ministry of Defense reported that three Ukrainian soldiers were killed and another twenty-five were wounded in action during the 24th week (11–18 June) of 2018.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the press-centre of the JFO headquarters in the morning pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 20 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 16 occasions in Donetsk region and on 4 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 9 occasions. By morning of 18 June two ceasefire violations were registered. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that one Ukrainian serviceman was wounded in the Donbass region on 17 June. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city reported three Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in three locations using small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 120 mm mortars, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. In the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic, local officials reported three Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire. The Ukrainian military used heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 120 mm mortars and 152 mm self-propelled artillery to pound pro-Russian positions at Donetskyi, Zholobok and Lohvynove. A civilian residence and a farm were destroyed at Zholobok. One female civilian was wounded.\n\nThe press-centre of the Joint Forces Operation reported in the evening that as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian troops had opened fire on Ukrainian troops on 4 occasions, no casualties were reported. By the end of the day total 28 ceasefire violations were registered, as a result, two Ukrainian servicemen were wounded. In the surroundings of Donetsk city, 82 mm mortar rounds hit Verkhnyotoretske. The separatists fired small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers at Ukrainian troops near Avdiivka, Marinka, Opytne and Kamianka. Sniper fire was reported at Krasnohorivka. In the region of Mariupol, Lebedinske and Starohnativka were shelled with 120 mm mortars; Chermalyk was meanwhile hit by 82 mm mortar rounds. Hnutove, Vodiane, Shyrokyne and Chermalyk became the target of infantry weapons and grenade launchers. In the northern section of the demarcation line, Troitske was hit by 120 mm mortar rounds, while 82 mm mortars were fired at Novotoshkivke. Separatist forces fired small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers at Yuzhne, Hladosove, Zaitseve and Luhanske. Pro-Russian sources at Donetsk city reported by evening that Ukrainian forces had attacked Zaitseve, north of Horlivka, with small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers. It was later disclosed that Novolaspa, in the region of Mariupol, was hit by 120 mm mortar volleys, while Dokuchaievsk, in the southern outskirts of Donetsk city, became the target of infantry weapons and automatic grenade launchers. Colonel Andryi Marochko, military spokesman of the self-proclaimed Luhansk Peoples Republic, told the press that the last civilian resident at Zholobok had been evacuated after his home was destroyed by 152 mm artillery rounds. The rest of the civilians had abandoned the village in the summer of 2017, after a Ukrainian attempt to take over the site.\n\nThe press-centre of the JFO headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 28 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 21 occasions in Donetsk and on 7 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 16 occasions. By morning of 19 June at least five ceasefire violations were registered with no casualties on the Ukrainian side; the fire was returned on several occasions. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that two Ukrainian servicemen were wounded in the Donbass region on 18 June. Pro-Russian sources at Donetsk city said that there were four Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in three locations using small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars and 120 mm mortars. According to local authorities, the Ukrainian military broke the ceasefire two times within the borders of the self-styled Luhansk People's Republic. The Ukrainian forces engaged pro-Russian positions at Hristove and Krasnyi Yar employing heavy machine guns, under-barrel grenade launchers and BMP-2 armoured vehicles.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the press-centre of the JFO headquarters in the evening as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 4 occasions, one Ukrainian serviceman was wounded in action. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 26, as a result, another two Ukrainian servicemen were wounded. In the outskirts of Donetsk city, Verkhnyotoretske, Vodiane, Marinka, Taramchuk, Novoselivka and Avdiivka were fired at from small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers. In the region of Mariupol, Ukrainian positions at Talakivka were engaged with grenade launchers, 120 mm mortars, armoured fighting vehicles and 122 mm self-propelled guns; 120 mm mortar volleys also struck Chermalyk. Pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles from Novolaspa launched an attack on Starohnativka supported by 82 mm mortars. Separatist forces opened fire on Ukrainian positions at Pavlopil, Vodiane, Shyrokyne and Lebedinske using infantry weapons and rocket launchers. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, Ukrainian forces at Novhorodske were engaged with ZU-23-2 antiaircraft guns, while Artemove and Troitske were attacked with small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers. Pro-Russian officials reported several Ukrainian violations of the truce by evening. Shyroka Balka and Gagarin mining complex, in the area of Horlivka and, in the region of Mariupol, Novolaspa and Bela Kamianka, came under hostile fire. In the main incidents, BMP-2 armoured fighting vehicles from Starohnativka and Novhorodske opened fire on pro-Russian positions at Bela Kamianka, Novolaspa and Shyroka Balka. Intense mortar fire was also reported at Bela Kamianka, which was hit by 120 mm volleys. Gagarin mining complex was shelled with 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the press-centre of the JFO headquarters in the morning pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 26 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 23 occasions in Donetsk region and on 3 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 16 occasions. By morning of 20 June (as of 9:00 am) three ceasefire violations were registered with no casualties on the Ukrainian side; the fire was returned. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that three Ukrainian servicemen were wounded in the Donbass region on 19 June. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city reported six Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in four different locations using small arms, snipers, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 120 mm mortars, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. According to local sources, Ukrainian forces broke the ceasefire four times within the boundaries of the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic. The Ukrainian military employed heavy machine guns, 82 mm and 120 mm mortars to engage pro-Russian redoubts at Zheleznaya Roshcha and Donetskyi.\n\nThe press-centre of the JFO reported in the evening no casualties on the Ukrainian side by 6:00 pm amidst several registered ceasefire violations by the pro-Russian military. By the end of the day total 30 ceasefire violations were registered, as a result, three Ukrainian servicemen were wounded. In the environs of Donetsk city, Verkhnyotoretske, Pisky, Avdiivka and Kamianka became the target of small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers. In the region of Mariupol, Vodiane was shelled with 82 mm and 120 mm mortars firing from Pikuzy. Pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles attacked Ukrainian positions at Bohdanivka. Separatist forces opened fire on Ukrainian troops at Pavlopil, Bohdanivka, Vodiane, Hnutove, Lebedinske, Pyshchevik and Shyrokyne with infantry weapons and grenade launchers. In the northern section of the demarcation line, Novotoshkivke was shelled with 120 mm mortars and 122 mm self-propelled artillery. Novoaleksandrivka, Svitlodarsk, Zolote, Katerinivka, Yuzhne, Troitske and Luhanske were hit by small arms fire, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers. Pro-Russian authorities at Donetsk city reported heavy shelling on several locations along the demarcation line throughout the day. Yasynuvata and Vasiilivka, in the outskirts of Donetsk city, Gagarin mining complex, in the area of Horlivka, and Uzhivka, in the region of Mariupol, came under intense fire. In the main incidents, Donetsk water purification plant was once again attacked by Ukrainian forces; the workers had to take cover in shelters. Pro-Russian positions at Vasiilivka were repeatedly hit by 82 mm mortar barrages; 82 mm mortars were also fired at Uzhivka and Gagarin mining complex. One civilian resident was wounded.\n\nThe press-centre of the JFO headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 30 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 20 occasions in Donetsk and on 10 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 12 occasions. By 9:00 am of 21 June four ceasefire violations were registered with no casualties on the Ukrainian side.) The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that three Ukrainian servicemen were wounded in the Donbass region on 20 June. Pro-Russian sources at Donetsk city said that there were five Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in three locations using small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars and 120 mm mortars. Officials from the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic recorded one Ukrainian violation of the truce when BMP-1 armoured vehicles from Novotoshkivke engaged pro-Russian positions at Donetskyi supported by 82 mm mortar fire.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the press-centre of the JFO headquarters in the evening pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 3 occasions from 7:00 am to 6:00 pm, all in the area of Mariupol, with no casualties on the Ukrainian side. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 29, as a result, one Ukrainian serviceman was wounded by a shrapnel. In the outskirts of Donetsk city, Avdiivka, Krasnohorivka, Pisky and Marinka became the target of infantry weapons and rocket launchers. In the region of Mariupol, 122 mm self-propelled guns fired at Hnutove, while Starohnativka was shelled with 120 mm mortars. Ukrainian troops at Shyrokyne, Lebedinske, Pavlopil, Novohryhorivka, Vodiane and Chermalyk were harassed with small arms fire, heavy machine gun fire and rocket propelled grenades. In the northern section of the demarcation line, 82 mm and 120 mm mortar volleys landed in Novotoshkivke. Small arms, heavy machine guns and antitank rockets were also fired at Ukrainian positions around Troitske, Zalizne, Zaitseve and Stanytsia Luhanska. Pro-Russian authorities at Donetsk city reported a number of attacks on their forces throughout the day. The Ukrainian army opened fire at Holmivsky, in the area of Horlivka, and at Pikuzy and Novolaspa, in the region of Mariupol. In the main incidents, heavy shelling was witnessed at Pikuzy, which was hit by several artillery barrages fired from Talakivka by 122 mm self-propelled guns. BMP-1 armoured vehicles from Zaitseve supported by 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles and automatic grenade launchers attacked pro-Russian positions at Holmivsky. BMP-2 armoured vehicles from Starohnativka riddled pro-Russian redoubts at Novolaspa with 30 mm gunfire. One civilian resident was wounded.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the press-centre of the JFO headquarters in the morning pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 29 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 21 occasions in Donetsk region and on 10 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 14 occasions. By 9:00 am of 22 June six ceasefire violations were registered with no casualties on the Ukrainian side; the fire was returned on several occasions. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that one Ukrainian serviceman was wounded in the Donbass region on 21 June. Pro-Russian authorities at Donetsk city recorded five Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in four different locations using small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless guns, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles and 122 mm self-propelled guns. One civilian resident was confirmed wounded. The same sources recorded 39 Ukrainian violations of the truce over the past week. The Ukrainian military fired 37 rounds from 122 mm self-propelled artillery, 138 shells from 82 mm and 120 mm mortars and some 500 rounds from armoured fighting vehicles. Three civilians were wounded. According to local officials, the Ukrainian military broke the ceasefire three times within the borders of the self-styled Luhansk People's Republic. The Ukrainian military employed 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles and 120 mm mortars to shell pro-Russian positions at Donetskyi and Lozove.\n\nThe press-centre of the Joint Forces Operation (JFO) reported in the evening that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 7 occasions from 7:00 am to 6:00 pm, with no casualties on the Ukrainian side. By the end of the day total 27 ceasefire violations were registered. Pro-Russian forces opened fire on Ukrainian troops at Verkhnyotoretske, Avdiivka, Marinka, Kamianka and Pisky with small arms, heavy machine guns and grenade launchers. In the region of Mariupol, 122 mm self-propelled artillery shelled Hnutove and Vodiane. Lebedinske and Talakivka were meanwhile hit by 120 mm mortar volleys. Pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles from Bela Kamianka engaged Ukrainian positions at Starohnativka. Pavlopil, Pishchevik and Shyrokyne became the target of infantry weapons and rocket launchers. In the northern section of the demarcation line, Novotoshkivke was shelled with 120 mm mortars and 122 mm self-propelled artillery. The separatists attacked Ukrainian positions at Zalizne, Luhanske, Troitske and Zaitseve with small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers. Pro-Russian sources at Donetsk city recorded a number of attacks on their troops throughout the day. Horlivka, Zaitseve and Gagarin mining complex, in the area of Horlivka, and Sakhanka, in the region of Mariupol, came under hostile fire. In the main incidents, Sakhanka was shelled with 120 mm mortars, while Gagarin mining complex was attacked by BMP-1 armoured vehicles supported by automatic grenade launchers. Heavy fire was reported at Horlivka, where several civilian residences were hit by mortar rounds.\n\nThe press-centre of the JFO headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 27 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 20 occasions in Donetsk and on 7 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 17 occasions. By 9:00 am of 23 June nine ceasefire violations were registered, two Ukrainian servicemen were wounded. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence reported at noon no casualties in the Donbass region on 22 June. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city reported five Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in four locations using small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, rocket launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mmmortars, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. Local authorities announced that the Ukrainian military broke the ceasefire on two occasions within the boundaries of the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic. Ukrainian forces from Krymske and Novotoshkivke used 120 mm mortars and BMP-1 armoured vehicles to attack pro-Russian positions at Donetskyi.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the press-centre of the JFO headquarters in the evening that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on eight occasions between 7:00 am and 6:00 pm, another two Ukrainian servicemen were wounded. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 25, as a result, total five Ukrainian servicemen were wounded. Around Donetsk city, 120 mm mortar volleys struck Kamianka. Avdiivka, Pisky, Kamianka and Novoselivka became the target of infantry weapons and rocket launchers. In the region of Mariupol, 122 mm self-propelled guns pounded Ukrainian positions at Vodiane, Lebedinske and Talakivka. Pro-Russian forces fired small arms, heavy machine guns and grenade launchers at Pavlopil, Shyrokyne and Lebedinske. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, pro-Russian forces attacked Krymske and Novotoshkivke with 82 mm mortars, armoured fighting vehicles and 122 mm self-propelled artillery. Ukrainian positions at Zolote, Zaitseve, Svitlodarsk, Novhorodske, Novotoshkivke and Krymske were hit by small arms fire, heavy machine gun fire and antitank rockets. Pro-Russian authorities told the press that Ukrainian forces had broken the ceasefire on multiple occasions by evening. Dokuchaievsk, in the environs of Donetsk city, Gagarin mining complex, in the area of Horlivka, and in the region of Mariupol, Pikuzy, Sakhanka, Uzhivka and Novolaspa, came under attack. In the main incidents, Dokuchaievsk and Sakhanka were shelled with 120 mm mortars; heavy shelling was also reported at Uzhivka, which came under 122 mm artillery fire. Ukrainian infantry attempting to slip through the demarcation line at Pikuzy was met by heavy fire from pro-Russian positions and driven back with casualties. BMP-2 armoured fighting vehicles from Shyrokyne engaged pro-Russian forces at Sakhanka. One civilian resident was wounded at Dokuchaievsk.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the press-centre of the JFO headquarters in the morning pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 25 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 14 occasions in Donetsk region and on 11 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 11 occasions. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that five Ukrainian servicemen were wounded in the Donbass region on 23 June. Pro-Russian authorities at Donetsk city recorded eight Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in six different locations using small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless guns, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, armoured personnel carriers, armoured fighting vehicles and 122 mm self-propelled guns. No violations of the ceasefire were reported by authorities of the self-styled Luhansk People's Republic.\n\nThe press-centre of the Joint Forces Operation (JFO) reported in the evening that from 7:00 am to 6:00 pm pro-Russian military had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 5 occasions, as a result, one Ukrainian serviceman was wounded. By the end of the day total 22 ceasefire violations were registered, as a result, one Ukrainian serviceman was killed, four were wounded. In the surroundings of Donetsk city, 82 mm mortar rounds landed in Avdiivka. The separatists also fired small arms, heavy machine guns and grenade launchers at Ukrainian positions in Avdiivka, Marinka and Kamianka. In the region of Mariupol, heavy shelling was reported at Vodiane. The Ukrainian stronghold was hit by several 122 mm and 152 mm artillery barrages; the area was also the target of 120 mm and 82 mm mortars. Hnutove and Lebedinske were shelled by 122 mm self-propelled artillery, while Ukrainian forces at Bohdanivka received 82 mm mortar fire. Pro-Russian tanks from Sakhanka launched a sustained attack on Lebedinske, supported by armoured fighting vehicles and infantry weapons. Hnutove, Bohdanivka, Vodiane and Shyrokyne became the target of small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers. in the northern section of the demarcation line, Krymske was shelled with 122 mm self-propelled artillery and 82 mm mortars. Ukrainian troops at Novozvanivka were harassed with small arms fire, heavy machine gun fire and rocket propelled grenades. Multiple Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire were reported by pro-Russian officials by evening. The Ukrainian military attacked Vasiilivka and Dokuchaievsk, in the surroundings of Donetsk city, Horlivka, Gagarin mining complex, Holmivsky and Zaitseve, in the area of Horlivka, and in the region of Mariupol, Uzhivka, Novolaspa, Sakhanka, Pikuzy and Novyboeve. In the main incidents, 122 mm self-propelled artillery was fired at the pro-Russian stronghold of Uzhivka, while Pikuzy and Novolaspa were shelled with 120 mm mortars. Gagarin mining complex was hit by 82 mm mortars. Ukrainian tanks from Talakivka launched an attack on pro-Russian redoubts at Pikuzy; tank rounds also hit Ukrainian positions at Dokuchaievsk. BMP-1 armoured fighting vehicles engaged pro-Russian forces at Novolaspa and Holmivsky.\n\nThe press-centre of the JFO headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 22 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 16 occasions in Donetsk and on 6 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 10 occasions. By morning of 25 June four ceasefire violations were registered with no casualties on the Ukrainian side. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that one Ukrainian serviceman was killed and another four were wounded in the Donbass region on 24 June. Pro-Russian authorities at Donetsk city recorded 15 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in 11 locations using small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, armoured personnel carriers, armoured fighting vehicles and tanks. One civilian was confirmed wounded. According to local sources, the Ukrainian military broke the ceasefire five times within the borders of the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic. The Ukrainian military employed heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mortars, 120 mortars and BMP-1 armoured vehicles to engage pro-Russian positions at Lozove, Lohvynove, Sokolniki, Veselehorivka and Sentianivka.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the press-centre of the JFO headquarters in the evening pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on two occasions between 7:00 am and 6:00 pm, no casualties were reported. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 24, as a result, one Ukrainian serviceman was wounded. In the outskirts of Donetsk city, 82 mm mortar volleys struck Avdiivka and Kruta Balka. Kamianka, Marinka and Verkhnyotoretske became the target of infantry weapons and grenade launchers. Pro-Russian troops in the region of Mariupol opened fire on Ukrainian positions at Hnutove, Lebedinske, Marinka, Pavlopil, Starohnativka and Shyrokyne with small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket lanchers. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, Krymske was shelled with 120 mm mortars, while Ukrainian redoubts at Orekhove, Luhanske and Svitlodarsk were hit by small arms fire, heavy machine gun fire and antitank rockets. Pro-Russian sources told the press that Ukrainian forces had broken the ceasefire on several occasions by evening. Dokuchaievsk, in the region of Donetsk, Gagarin mining complex, in the area of Horlivka, and in the region of Mariupol, Styla and Petrovske, came under hostile fire. In the main incidents, 120 mm mortar rounds hit Styla and Dokuchaievsk, while BMP-1 and BMP-2 armoured vehicles from Dzerzhinsky and Novotroitske engaged pro-Russian redoubts at Gagarin mining complex and Dokuchaievsk. BMP-2 armoured vehicles from Novohnativka raked Ukrainian positions at Petrovske with 30 mm gunfire.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the press-centre of the JFO headquarters in the morning pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 24 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 16 occasions in Donetsk region and on 8 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 14 occasions. By morning of 26 June two ceasefire violations were registered with no casualties on the Ukrainian side; the fire was returned. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that one Ukrainian soldier was wounded in the Donbass region on 25 June. Pro-Russian authorities at Donetsk city recorded seven Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in five different locations using small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless guns, 120 mm mortars, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. In the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic, local officials reported three Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire. The Ukrainian military used small arms, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 120 mm mortars and BMP-1 armoured fighting vehicles to pound pro-Russian positions at Kalynove and Lozove.\n\nThe press-centre of the Joint Forces Operation (JFO) reported in the evening that from 7:00 am to 6:00 pm pro-Russian military had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 5 occasions, exclusively in Luhansk region, no casualties were reported. By the end of the day total 30 ceasefire violations were registered, as a result, one Ukrainian serviceman was killed, two were wounded. In the ouskirts of Donetsk city, Marinka and Pisky were shelled with 82 mm mortars, while Avdiivka was fired at from small arms, rocket launchers and ZU-23-2 antiaircraft guns. Pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles engaged Ukrainian redoubts at Novoselivka. In the region of Mariupol, 82 mm and 120 mm mortar barrages hit Vodiane. The separatist also employed 82 mm mortars to shell Lebedinske. Hnutove, Pyshchevik and Starohnativka became the target of small arms and grenade launchers. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, 122 mm self-propelled artillery shelled Novotoshkivke, while Krymske came under 82 mm and 120 mm mortar fire. Ukrainian forces at Zaitseve, Mayorsk, Katerinivka, Zholobok, Troitske and Lozove were attacked with infantry weapons, rocket launchers and armoured fighting vehicles. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city reported a number of Ukrainian violations of the truce by evening. Ukrainian forces attacked Dokuchaievsk, in the surroundings of Donetsk city, and, in the area of Horlivka, Zaitseve and Gagarin mining complex. BMP-2 armoured fighting vehicles from Nikolaevka opened fire on pro-Russian positions at Dokuchaievsk, while Zaitseve and Gagarin mining complex were shelled with automatic grenade launchers, antitank rocket launchers and 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles.\n\nThe press-centre of the JFO headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 30 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 17 occasions in Donetsk and on 13 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 20 occasions. By 9:00 am of 27 June nine ceasefire violations were registered with no casualties on the Ukrainian side. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that one Ukrainian serviceman was killed and another two were wounded in the Donbass region on 26 June. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city reported three Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in three locations using small arms, automatic grenade launchers, rocket launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. According to local authorities, Ukrainian forces broke the ceasefire three times within the boundaries of the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic. The Ukrainian military employed small arms, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars and BMP-1 armoured vehicles to attack pro-Russian redoubts at Prishib, Sokolniki and Nyzhne Lozove.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the press-centre of the JFO headquarters in the evening pro-Russian military had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 12 occasions between 7:00 am and 6:00 pm, as a result, three Ukrainian servicemen were lethally wounded at Bohdanivka by pro-Russian 122 mm self-propelled artillery; another Ukrainian soldier was wounded at Vodiane. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 32, another two Ukrainian servicemen were wounded, two civilians were injured by shelling in Zalizne. In the environs of Donetsk city, Marinka was shelled with 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, supported by small arms and heavy machine guns. The Ukrainian stronghold of Avdiivka was attacked by armoured fighting vehicles supported by heavy machine guns, rocket lanchers and antiaircraft guns. Small arms and heavy machine gun fire was reported at Opytne. In the region of Mariupol, 120 mm mortars and 122 mm self-propelled artillery shelled Hnutove; heavy shelling was also reported at Starohnativka, hit by 120 mm mortar rounds. The separatists fired infantry weapons at Ukrainian positions around Shyrokyne, Talakivka, Pavlopil and Vodiane. In the northern section of the demarcation line, pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles engaged Ukrainian redoubts at Yuzhne, supported by heavy machine gun fire. Krymske was shelled with 82 mm mortars fired from Sentianivka and Zholobok. Heavy machine gun fire was reported at Luhanske, while Ukrainian troops at Stanytsia Luhanska were harassed with small arms fire. Pro-Russian sources at Donetsk city reported Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in the surroundings of Donetsk city and in the region of Mariupol by evening. BMP-1 and BMP-2 armoured fighting vehicles from Novohryhorivka launched a sustained attack on pro-Russian positions at Bela Kamianka, while Dokuchaievsk became the target of 120 mm mortars fired from Novotroitske.\n\nA new agreement on a new ceasefire starting on 1 July 2018 was announced in Minsk, the capital of Belarus.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the press-centre of the JFO headquarters in the morning pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 32 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 26 occasions in Donetsk region and on 6 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on more than half of the occasions. As of 9:00 am of 28 June seven ceasefire violations were registered with no casualties on the Ukrainian side. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that three Ukrainian servicemen were killed and another three were wounded in the Donbass region on 27 June. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city reported that Ukrainian forces broke the ceasefire twice, using 120 mm mortars and armoured fighting vehicles to attack pro-Russian positions at Bela Kamianka and Dokuchaievsk. According to local sources, Ukrainian forces broke the ceasefire two times within the boundaries of the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic. The Ukrainian military employed small arms, rocket launchers and automatic grenade launchers to attack pro-Russian troops at Kalynivka and Lohvynove.\n\nThe press-centre of the Joint Forces Operation (JFO) reported in the evening that as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 7 occasions; two Ukrainian servicemen were killed in a skirmish that took place at Pivdenne. By the end of the day total 28 ceasefire violations were registered, another two Ukrainian servicemen were killed (at Svitlodarsk and in Avdiivka) and two were wounded. In the area of Donetsk city, Novotroitske was shelled with 120 mm mortars. Avdiivka, Verkhnyotoretske, Novotroitske and Marinka became the target of infantry weapons and grenade launchers. In the region of Mariupol, Pavlopil was fired at from 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 120 mm mortars and 122 mm self-propelled artillery. Nearby Hnutove was hit by 120 mm mortar volleys. The separatists fired small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers at Shyrokyne, Pavlopil, Vodiane, Lebedinske and Hnutove. In the northern section of the demarcation line, a single pro-Russian tank opened fire on Ukrainian positions at Novotoshkivke. The same area, along with Yuzhne, came under 82 mm and 120 mm mortar fire. Both settements were also attacked by armoured fighting vehicles, supported by infantry weapons and antitank rocket launchers. Ukrainian troops at Luhanske, Novhorodske, Novozvanivka and Svitlodarsk were harassed with small arms and heavy machine gun fire. Pro-Russian authorities told the press that two assaults on their redoubts led by Ukrainian infantry and tanks and supported by 122 mm self-propelled artillery were met with heavy fire by pro-Russian forces at Gagarin mining complex, in the area of Horlivka. In the first engagement, Ukrainian infantry supported by 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars and 122 mm artillery attempted to seize the high ground around the Ukrainian-held village of Yuzhne (Pivdenne), but the push was repelled with heavy casualties. In the second attempt, Ukrainian tanks from Yuzhne launched a sustained attack on pro-Russian positions north of Gagarin, supported by 122 mm self-propelled guns, in order to divert pro-Russian fire from the southern sector of the defences, where Ukrainian special forces would break through the demarcation line. The manoeuvrer was thwarted and the intruders were driven back by pro-Russian military. In the region of Mariupol and around Donetsk city, BMP-2 armoured vehicles from Starohnativka and Novotroitske riddled pro-Russian outposts at Novolaspa, Bela Kamianka and Dokuchaievsk with 30 mm gunfire. Dokuchaievsk was also hit by 120 mm mortar rounds. Spartak became the target of small arms, automatic grenade launchers and antitank rocket launchers.\n\nThe press-centre of the JFO headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 28 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 17 occasions in Donetsk and on 11 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 19 occasions. By morning of 29 June six ceasefire violations were registered with no casualties on the Ukrainian side (as of 11:00 am). The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that four Ukrainian servicemen were killed and two were wounded in the Donbass region on 28 June. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city reported ten Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in six locations using small arms, heavy machine guns, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, armoured personnel carriers, armoured fighting vehicles, tanks and 122 mm self-propelled artillery. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city reported that Ukrainian BMP-1 armoured fighting vehicles from Novotoshkivke attacked Donetskyi supported by 120 mm mortar fire.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the press-centre of the JFO headquarters in the evening pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 12 occasions, one Ukrainian soldier was wounded. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 34, another Ukrainian serviceman was wounded. In the outskirts of Donetsk city, separatist forces fired small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers at Ukrainian positions near Verkhnyotoretske, Avdiivka, Marinka and Pisky. Sniper fire was reported at Nevelske. In the region of Mariupol, pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles engaged Ukrainian redoubts at Pavlopil. Hnutove and Berdyansk were hit by 120 mm mortars. Ukrainian forces at Lebedinske, Shyrokyne, Vodiane, Pavlopil, and Novomihaylivka became the target of infantry weapons and rocket launchers. In the northern section of the demarcation line, pro-Russian tanks attacked Ukrainian redoubts at Novotoshkivke for the second consecutive day, while armoured fighting vehicles opened fire on Maiske. Luhanske and Krymske were shelled with 82 mm mortars, and Luhanske, Krymske, Svitlodarsk, Novhorodske and Novozvanivka were fired at from small arms, heavy machine guns and grenade launchers. Pro-Russian officials told the press that Ukrainian forces broke the ceasefire on a number of occasions by evening. In the surroundings of Donetsk city, Ukrainian tanks from Nikolaevka opened fire on pro-Russian redoubts at Dokuchaievsk, while BMP-2 armoured vehicles from Bohdanivka and Novotroitske attacked pro-Russian positions at Petrovske and Yasne.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the press-centre of the JFO headquarters in the morning pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 34 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 20 occasions in Donetsk region and on 14 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 18 occasions. By morning of 30 June three ceasefire violations were registered with no casualties on the Ukrainian side; the fire was returned twice. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that two Ukrainian servicemen were wounded in the Donbass region on 29 June. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city reported four Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in four different locations employing 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, armoured personnel carriers. armoured fighting vehicles and tanks. The same sources recorded 46 Ukrainian violations of the truce over the past week; Ukrainian forces fired 45 shells from 122 mm self-propeleld artillery, 34 tank rounds, 119 shells from 82 mm and 120 mm mortars and 321 shots from armoured fighting vehicles. Two pro-Russian soldiers were wounded. According to local authorities, Ukrainian forces broke the ceasefire three times within the boundaries of the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic. The Ukrainian military employed 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars and BMP-1 armoured vehicles to engage pro-Russian positions at Donetskyi, Lohvynove and Sokolniki.\n\nThe press-centre of the Joint Forces Operation (JFO) reported in the evening that from 7:00 am to 6:00 pm pro-Russian military had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 2 occasions, no casualties were reported. By the end of the day total 26 ceasefire violations were registered, as a result, one Ukrainian serviceman was wounded. In the region of Donetsk, Krasnohorivka, Avdiivka, Opytne, Novomykhailivka, Marinka and Pisky became the target of small arms, heavy machine guns and antitank rocket launchers. Antitank rockets landed in Vesele. In the region of Mariupol, 120 mm mortar rounds landed in Hnutove, while infantry weapons and different types of grenade launchers were fired at Lebedinske, Vodiane, Pavlopil, Talakivka and Chermalyk. In the northern section of the demarcation line, Novotoshkivke was fired at from infantry weapons, grenade launchers, 82 mm and 120 mm mortars. Pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles engaged Ukrainian positions at Zaitseve and Yuzhne, supported by small arms and heavy machine gun fire. A number of ceasefire violations were reported by pro-Russian authorities at Donetsk city by evening, when Zaitseve and 6/7 mining complex near Horlivka were attacked by Ukrainian forces. Pro-Russian positions at Zaitseve became the target of small arms, automatic grenade launchers and 82 mm mortars, while BMP-2 armoured vehicles opened fire on 6/7 mining complex supported by small arms and automatic grenade launchers. BMP-1 armoured vehicles opened fire on pro-Russian redoubts at Verkhnyoshyrokivske.\n\n"}
{"id": "38922554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38922554", "title": "Tirumala Shanivaralu", "text": "Tirumala Shanivaralu\n\nPurattasi Sani or Tirumala Shanivara (, ) is a Hindu festival celebrated in some parts of South India including Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. The Hindu deity, Venkateswara, is worshiped during this festival. It is celebrated during the Tamil month of Purattasi, which generally falls in the months of September and October of the Gregorian calendar. Puratasi Masam is of great importance as it is believed that Lord Venkateswara appeared on the earth in this month. Lord Vishnu devotees consider this as the ideal month for thanking Lord Vishnu for preserving the Universe at the end of Kali Yuga. All the Saturdays of this month are treated as holy days and Devotees gather in large number at Lord Vishnu temples and special prayers are offered. Particularly the Odd Saturdays 1st, 3rd, 5th are of more importance. Tirumala Annual Navarathri Brahmotsavam were also observed during this month where Tirumala will be flooded with lakhs of devotees. Some people will take only vegetarian food during this month.\n\nThis festival is celebrated majorly in south Andhra. This festival is celebrated grandly in Tirupati the foot hill town of Tirumala. People will wakeup early in the morning with Suprabhatam, the holy Sanskrit hyms to wakeup lord venkateswara. People will take headbath after which they will clean their houses and starts cooking special dishes (Naivedyam) to be offered to lord Venkateswara. Lord Venkateswara will be decorated with special flowers (includes Crysanthemum, jasmine, Hibiscus, Lilly, Lotus, Marigold and manymore), leaves (Thulasi maala (oscimum), mamidi aaku (mango leaves)), Fruits (Banana, Pine apple, Apple, Grapes, Papaya, Oranges, Musambi, Ground Nuts, Kalimkayalu and manymore), money and TiruNaamam (Tilak with Namakommu and Sirisunnam).\n\nDishes include many varieties Laddu (The most beloved sweet of Lord Venkateswara), Bellam Pongali (Jaggary Pongal), Miryala Pongali (Pepper pongal), Panchamrutham, vada, Payasam, Pulihora, dardhojanam (curd rice), Guggullu, Dosa, Nuvvula pindi, Biyyam Pindi, Sugeelu, Mudha pappu, sambar, rasam, perugu (curd), neyyi (ghee), annam (rice).\n\nDuring pooja first Deepam will be lit followed by offering naivedhyam, agarbathi, sambrani, coconut, harathi respectively. Naivedhyam will be offered to lord venkateswara and his wives, sri devi and bhu devi, on three banana leaves. Everyone in the house will keep tirunamam. During Harathi, everyone in the house utter the following hymns loudly:\nEDU KONDALA VADA! VENKATA RAMANA! GOVINDHA! GOVINDHA!! <br>\nAPADHA MROKKULA VADA! ANADHA RAKSHAKA! GOVINDHA! GOVINDHA!! <br>\n\nTiruNamam also called as moodu namalu or Tirumala Namalu is a Namam which includes one base line drawn with namakommu (white in color) and three horizontal lines on this base line of which first and second are drawn with namakommu one at beginning of base line and other at end of base line. The third horizontal line is made of sirisunnam (red in color) and is drawn from the middle of the base line.\n"}
{"id": "25931209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25931209", "title": "Videogame Nation (exhibition)", "text": "Videogame Nation (exhibition)\n\nVideogame Nation was a UK exhibition looking at the history of British videogames. It showed how videogames have progressed over more than 30 years. Visitors were able to play a wide selection of games including Jet Set Willy, Sensible Soccer, Tomb Raider and Grand Theft Auto. The exhibition highlighted the key people and companies which have contributed to British gaming since its inception.\n\nCurated by videogame journalist \"David Crookes\", \"Videogame Nation\" made its debut at the arts centre Urbis in Manchester on 14 May 2009. It ran until 19 September 2009. It visited Woodhorn Museum and Northumberland Archives, on the outskirts of Ashington in the North East of England, in February 2011 for seven months.\n\n\"Videogame Nation\" was split into a number of sections. It started in a bedroom setting, complete with a bed, showcasing games made by small teams, predominantly in the 1980s. It was possible to play Elite, Jet Set Willy, Jetpac and \"Head over Heels\", look at original posters, view a display cabinet packed with retro computer items and see the first issues of Crash magazine. The area explored the work of current retro programmer Jonathan Cauldwell as well as Introversion Software, an indie developer which used to call itself the \"Last of the Bedroom Programmers\". Visitors were able to create their own pixel art.\n\nVisitors were also able to play a range of driving games and discover more about their evolution. Games include Burnin' Rubber on the Amstrad GX4000, Micro Machines on the Nintendo Entertainment System, Ferrari Challenge on a PlayStation 3 and Burnout on a Xbox 360.\n\nAn arcade section followed, looking at the popularity of arcades in the late 1970s, 1980s and early 1990s. It concentrated on home computer versions of arcade classics including Ghouls 'n Ghosts and Pac-Man World 3. Two arcade cabinets for Rainbow Islands and Ghouls n Ghosts were provided by collector Jonathan Thompson and were the only parts of the exhibition which visitors had to pay extra to use.\n\nAn office setting allowed players to see how game development teams have increased in size. There was a display looking at the various jobs carried out by people working in gaming as well as examples of games produced in the late 1980s and 1990s. Among them were Broken Sword, Theme Park and Dizzy. This area also included a Dizzy map, a large display cabinet of original game development documents and posters. There was a particular emphasis on PC games among them Populous.\n\nA mocked-up stadium allowed gamers to play \"FIFA International Soccer\", \"Sensible Soccer\" and \"Kick Off\" while reclining in seats taken from Manchester City's Maine Road stadium. Astroturf from Manchester City's training ground was also used. The sports section included Virtua Tennis and there was audio from Sensible Software's Jon Hare.\n\nA section which looked at gaming on the go had an area dominated by a bus stop on to which PlayStation Portables were attached. Bus seats opposite had Nintendo DSs attached. The idea was that games could be played anywhere and were not restricted to the home. There was an emphasis on exploration with titles from TTGames' LEGO series and there was a Star Wars Yoda created out of LEGO. Tomb Raider and WipEout were also playable and the area had a sofa and pixellated fire to show the transition from bedroom to living room. Three Elite spacecraft were placed on the wall in a similar manner to the flying ducks in Hilda Ogden's house in Coronation Street. LostWinds was playable on a Nintendo Wii.\n\nA cinema allowed visitors to watch a selection of films including re-runs of GamesMaster and documentaries. There was an 18-rated section looking at Bully and Grand Theft Auto. This also explored controversies including the argument between Manchester Cathedral and Sony over the game .\n\nOne of the most popular sections allowed visitors to draw their own videogame covers. Many videogame developers including Blitz Games' Philip Oliver contributed.\n\nDuring its run at Urbis, \"Videogame Nation\" had a programme of events which ran throughout the Summer of 2009.\n\nThey were:\nJon Hare: Playing for England June 14, 2009.\n\nGetting Dizzy: The Oliver Twins June 28, 2009.\n\nMatthew Smith: Manic Musings July 19, 2009.\n\nRetro Revival July 26, 2009.\n\nThe Godfather: David Braben August 9, 2009.\n\nBricking it: Arthur Parsons TTGames August 16, 2009.\n\nSailing the Ocean Waves September 6, 2009.\n\nStart a Revolution: Charles Cecil September 13, 2009.\n\n\"Videogame Nation\" was well received by visitors and the press. They included reviews by Negative Gamer \n"}
{"id": "195223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=195223", "title": "Voskhod 2", "text": "Voskhod 2\n\nVoskhod 2 () was a Soviet manned space mission in March 1965. The Vostok-based Voskhod 3KD spacecraft with two crew members on board, Pavel Belyayev and Alexey Leonov, was equipped with an inflatable airlock. It established another milestone in space exploration when Alexey Leonov became the first person to leave the spacecraft in a specialized spacesuit to conduct a 12-minute \"spacewalk\".\n\n\n\nLiftoff took place at 11:00 AM on the morning of 18 March. As with Voskhod 1, a launch abort was not possible during the first few minutes, until the payload shroud jettisoned around the 2-1/2 minute mark.\n\nThe Voskhod 3KD spacecraft had an inflatable airlock extended in orbit. Cosmonaut Alexey Leonov donned a space suit and left the spacecraft while the other cosmonaut of the two-man crew, Pavel Belyayev, remained inside. Leonov began his spacewalk 90 minutes into the mission at the end of the first orbit. Cosmonaut Leonov's spacewalk lasted 12 minutes and 9 seconds (08:34:51–08:47:00hrs UTC), beginning over north-central Africa (northern Sudan/southern Egypt), and ending over eastern Siberia.\n\nThe Voskhod 2 spacecraft was a Vostok spacecraft with a backup, solid fuel retrorocket, attached atop the descent module. The ejection seat was removed and two seats were added, (at a 90-degree angle relative to the Vostok crew seats position). An inflatable exterior airlock was also added to the descent module opposite the entry hatch. After use, the airlock was jettisoned. There was no provision for crew escape in the event of a launch or landing emergency. A solid fuel braking rocket was also added to the parachute lines to provide for a softer landing at touchdown. This was necessary because, unlike the Vostok, the crew landed with the Voskhod descent module.\nThough Leonov was able to complete his spacewalk successfully, both that task and the overall mission were plagued with problems. Leonov's only tasks were to attach a camera to the end of the airlock to record his spacewalk and to photograph the spacecraft. He managed to attach the camera without any problem. However, when he tried to use the still camera on his chest, the suit had ballooned and he was unable to reach down to the shutter switch on his leg. After his 12 minutes and 9 seconds outside the Voskhod, Leonov found that his suit had stiffened, due to ballooning out, to the point where he could not re-enter the airlock. He was forced to bleed off some of his suit's pressure, in order to be able to bend the joints, eventually going below safety limits. Leonov did not report his action on the radio to avoid alarming others, but Soviet state radio and television had earlier stopped their live broadcasts from the spacecraft when the mission experienced difficulties. The two crew members subsequently experienced difficulty in sealing the hatch properly due to thermal distortion caused by Leonov's lengthy troubles returning to the craft, followed by a troublesome re-entry in which malfunction of the automatic landing system forced the use of its manual backup. The spacecraft was so cramped that the two cosmonauts, both wearing spacesuits, could not return to their seats to restore the ship's center of mass for 46 seconds after orienting the ship for reentry and a landing in Perm Krai. The orbital module did not properly disconnect from the landing module, not unlike Vostok 1, causing the spherical return vehicle to spin wildly until the modules disconnected at 100 km.\n\nThe delay of 46 seconds caused the spacecraft to land 386 km from the intended landing zone, in the inhospitable forests of Upper Kama Upland, somewhere west of Solikamsk. Although flight controllers had no idea where the spacecraft had landed or whether Leonov and Belyayev had survived, the cosmonauts' families were told that they were resting after having been recovered. The two men were both familiar with the harsh climate and knew that bears and wolves, made aggressive by mating season, lived in the \"taiga\"; the spacecraft carried a pistol and \"plenty of ammunition\", but the incident later drove the development of a dedicated TP-82 Cosmonaut survival pistol. Although aircraft quickly located the cosmonauts, the area was so heavily forested that helicopters could not land. Night arrived, the temperature dropped to , and the spacecraft's hatch had been blown open by explosive bolts. Warm clothes and supplies were dropped and the cosmonauts spent a freezing night in the capsule or \"Sharik\" in Russian. Even worse, the electrical system completely malfunctioned so that the heater would not work, but the fans ran at full blast. A rescue party arrived on skis the next day as it was too risky to try an airlift from the site. The advance party chopped wood and built a small log cabin and an enormous fire. After a more comfortable second night in the forest the cosmonauts skied to a waiting helicopter several kilometers away and flew first to Perm, then to Baikonur for their mission debriefing.\n\nGeneral Nikolai Kamanin's diary later gave the landing location of the Voskhod 2, about from Perm in the Ural mountains in heavy forest at 59:34 N 55:28 E on March 19, 1965 9:02 GMT. Initially there was some confusion and it was believed that Voskhod 2 landed not far from Shchuchin (about south-west of Bereznikov, north of Perm), but no indication was received from the spacecraft. Apparently a commander of one of the search helicopters reported finding Voskhod 2, \"On the forest road between the villages of Sorokovaya and Shchuchino, about 30 kilometers southwest of the town of Berezniki, I see the red parachute and the two cosmonauts. There is deep snow all around ...\"\n\nThe capsule is currently on display at the museum of RKK Energiya in Korolev, near Moscow.\n\nOn reaching orbit in Voskhod 2, Leonov and Belyayev attached the EVA backpack to Leonov's Berkut (“Golden Eagle”) space suit, a modified Vostok Sokol-1 intravehicular (IV) suit. The white metal EVA backpack provided 45 minutes of oxygen for breathing and cooling. Oxygen vented through a relief valve into space, carrying away heat, moisture, and exhaled carbon dioxide. The space suit pressure could be set at either or .\n\nBelyayev then deployed and pressurized the Volga inflatable airlock. The airlock was necessary for two reasons: first, the capsule's avionics used vacuum tubes, which required a constant atmosphere for air cooling. Also, supplies of nitrogen and oxygen sufficient to replenish the atmosphere after EVA could not be carried due to the spacecraft's weight limit. By contrast, the American Gemini capsule used solid state avionics, and an atmosphere of oxygen only, at a low pressure of , which could easily be replenished after EVA. The Volga airlock was designed, built, and tested in nine months in mid-1964. At launch, Volga fitted over Voskhod 2's hatch, extending beyond the spacecraft's hull. The airlock comprised a wide metal ring fitted over Voskhod 2's inward-opening hatch, a double-walled fabric airlock tube with a deployed length of , and a wide metal upper ring around the wide inward-opening airlock hatch. Volga's deployed internal volume was .\n\nThe fabric airlock tube was made rigid by about 40 airbooms, clustered as three, independent groups. Two groups sufficed for deployment. The airbooms needed seven minutes to fully inflate. Four spherical tanks held sufficient oxygen to inflate the airbooms and pressurize the airlock. Two lights lit the airlock interior, and three 16mm cameras — two in the airlock, one outside on a boom mounted to the upper ring — recorded the historic first spacewalk.\n\nBelyayev controlled the airlock from inside Voskhod 2, but a set of backup controls for Leonov was suspended on bungee cords inside the airlock. Leonov entered Volga, then Belyayev sealed Voskhod 2 behind him and depressurized the airlock. Leonov opened Volga's outer hatch and pushed out to the end of his umbilicus. He later said the umbilicus gave him tight control of his movements — an observation purportedly belied by subsequent American spacewalk experience. Leonov reported looking down and seeing from the Straits of Gibraltar to the Caspian Sea.\n\nAfter Leonov returned to his couch, Belyayev fired pyrotechnic bolts to discard the Volga. Sergei Korolev, Chief Designer at OKB-1 Design Bureau (now RKK Energia), stated after the EVA that Leonov could have remained outside for much longer than he did, while Mstislav Keldysh, “chief theoretician” of the Soviet space program and President of the Soviet Academy of Sciences, said that the EVA showed that future cosmonauts would find work in space easy.\n\nThe government news agency, TASS, reported that, \"outside the ship and after returning, Leonov feels well\"; however, post-Cold War Russian documents reveal a different story — that Leonov's Berkut space suit ballooned, making bending difficult. Because of this, Leonov was unable to reach the shutter switch on his thigh for his chest-mounted camera. He could not take pictures of Voskhod 2, but was able to recover the camera mounted on Volga which recorded his EVA for posterity but only after it stuck and he had to exert considerable effort to push it down in front of him. After 12 minutes walking in space Leonov re-entered Volga.\n\nLater accounts report Cosmonaut Leonov violated procedure by entering the airlock head-first, then became stuck sideways when he turned to close the outer hatch, forcing him to flirt with decompression sickness (the “bends”) by lowering the suit pressure so he could bend to free himself. Leonov said that he had a suicide pill to swallow had he been unable to re-enter the Voskhod 2, and Belyayev been forced to abandon him in orbit.\n\nDoctors reported that Leonov nearly suffered heatstroke — his core body temperature increased by 1.8 °C (3.2 °F) in 20 minutes; Leonov said he was up to his knees in sweat, which sloshed in the suit. In an interview published in the Soviet Military Review in 1980, Leonov downplayed his difficulties, saying that \"building manned orbital stations and exploring the Universe are inseparably linked with man's activity in open space. There is no end of work in this field.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "218935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218935", "title": "Walpurgis Night", "text": "Walpurgis Night\n\nWalpurgis Night, an abbreviation of Saint Walpurgis Night (from the German ' ), also known as Saint Walpurga's Eve (alternatively spelled Saint Walburga's Eve), is the eve of the Christian feast day of Saint Walpurga, an 8th-century abbess in Francia, and is celebrated on the night of 30 April and the day of 1 May. This feast commemorates the canonization of Saint Walpurga and the movement of her relics to Eichstätt, both of which occurred on 1 May 870.\n\nSaint Walpurga was hailed by the Christians of Germany for battling \"pest, rabies and whooping cough, as well as against witchcraft.\" In Germanic folklore, \"\" (), literally \"Witches' Night\", was believed to be the night of a witches' meeting on the Brocken, the highest peak in the Harz Mountains, a range of wooded hills in central Germany between the rivers Weser and Elbe. Christians prayed to God through the intercession of Saint Walpurga in order to protect themselves from witchcraft, as Saint Walpurga was successful in converting the local populace to Christianity. In parts of Christendom, people continue to light bonfires on Saint Walpurga's Eve in order to ward off evil spirits and witches. Others have historically made Christian pilgrimages to Saint Walburga's tomb in Eichstätt on the Feast of Saint Walburga, often obtaining vials of Saint Walburga's oil.\n\nLocal variants of Walpurgis Night are observed throughout Europe in the Netherlands, Germany, the Czech Republic, Slovenia, Sweden, Norway, Lithuania, Latvia, Finland, and Estonia. In Denmark, the tradition with bonfires to ward off the witches is observed as Saint John's Eve.\n\nThe daughter of Saint Richard the Pilgrim and sister of Saint Willibald, Saint Walpurga (also known as Saint Walpurgis) was born in Devon, England in 710 A.D. Born into an prominent Anglo-Saxon family, Saint Walpurga studied medicine and became a Christian missionary to Germany, where she founded a double monastery in Heidenheim. As such, Christian artwork often depicts her holding bandages in her hand. As a result of Saint Walpurga's evangelism in Germany, the people there converted to Christianity from heathenism. In addition, \"the monastery became an education center and 'soon became famous as a center of culture'.\" Saint Walpurga was also known to repel the effects of witchcraft. Saint Walpurga perished in 777 and her tomb, to this day, produces holy oil (known as Saint Walburga's oil), which is said to heal sickness; Benedictine nuns distribute this oil in vials to Christian pilgrims who visit Saint Walpurga's tomb.\n\nThe current festival is named after the English Christian missionary Saint Walpurga ( 710–777/9). As Saint Walpurga's feast was held on 1 May (c. 870), she became associated with May Day, especially in the Finnish and Swedish calendars. The canonization of Saint Walpurga and the movement of her relics to Eichstätt occurred on 1 May in the year 870 thus leading to the Feast of Saint Walpurga and its eve, Walpurgis Night, being popularly observed on this date. When the bishop had Saint Walpurga's relics moved, \"miraculous cures were reported as her remains traveled along the route.\" The eve of May Day, traditionally celebrated with dancing and bonfires to ward off witches, came to be known as ' (\"Saint Walpurga's night\") in the German language. The shortened name of the holiday is ' in German, ' (\"Valborg's Mass Eve\") in Swedish, ' in Finland Swedish, ' in Finnish, ' in Estonian, ' in Lithuanian, ' or ' in Latvian, ' and \"\" in Czech. In English, it is known as Saint Walpurga's Night, Saint Walburga's Night, Walpurgis Night, Saint Walpurga's Eve, Saint Walburga's Eve, the Feast of Saint Walpurga or the Feast of Saint Walburga.\n\nThe Germanic term ' is recorded in 1668 by Johannes Praetorius as ' or '. An earlier mention of ' and ' is in the 1603 edition of the ' of Johann Coler, who also refers to the following day, 1 May, as \"\", feast day of the apostles James the Less and Philip in the Western Christian calendar of saints.\n\nThe 17th-century German tradition of a meeting of sorcerers and witches on May Day eve (', ' \"Witches' Night\") is influenced by the descriptions of Witches' Sabbaths in 15th- and 16th-century literature. Given that witches gathered on this Hexennacht, the Western Christian Church established the Feast of Saint Walpurga on the same night in order to counteract witchcraft, given that the intercession of Saint Walpurga was efficacious against evil magic. Across Christendom, people continue to light bonfires on Saint Walpurga's Eve, now dedicated to this Christian saint, in order to ward off evil spirits and witches. Many Christians also make religious pilgrimages to Saint Walburga's tomb in Eichstätt on Saint Walburga's Day; in the 19th century, the number of pilgrims travelling to the Church of St. Walpurgis was described as \"many thousand\".\n\n30 April is ' (\"Burning of the witches\") or ' (\"The witches\") in the Czech Republic. Huge bonfires up to tall with a witch figure are built and burnt in the evening, preferably on top of hills. Young people gather around. Sudden black and dense smoke formations are cheered as \"a witch flying away\". An effigy of a witch is held up and thrown into a bonfire to burn. \n\nIt is still a widespread feast in the Czech Republic, practiced since the pagan times. The feast is sometimes associated with Slavic goddess Marzanna, which represents winter and death.\n\nAs evening advances to midnight and fire is on the wane, it is time to go search for a cherry tree in blossom. This is another feast, connected with the 1st May. Young women should be kissed past midnight (and during the following day) under a cherry tree. They \"will not dry up\" for an entire year. The First of May is celebrated then as \"the day of those in love\".\n\nIn Estonia, ' is celebrated throughout the night of 30 April and into the early hours of 1 May, where 1 May is a public holiday called \"Spring Day\" ('). Volbriöö is an important and widespread celebration of the arrival of spring in the country. Influenced by German culture, the night originally stood for the gathering and meeting of witches. Modern people still dress up as witches to wander the streets in a carnival-like mood.\n\nThe Volbriöö celebrations are especially vigorous in Tartu, the university town in southern Estonia. For Estonian students in student corporations (fraternities and sororities), the night starts with a traditional procession through the streets of Tartu, followed by visiting each other's corporation houses throughout the night.\n\nIn Finland, Walpurgis night (') (\"\") is one of the four biggest holidays along with Christmas Eve, New Year's Eve, and Midsummer ('). Walpurgis witnesses the biggest carnival-style festival held in Finland's cities and towns. The celebration, which begins on the evening of 30 April and continue on 1 May, typically centre on the consumption of sima, sparkling wine and other alcoholic beverages. Student traditions, particularly those of engineering students, are one of the main characteristics of '. Since the end of the 19th century, this traditional upper-class feast has been appropriated by university students. Many ' (university-preparatory high school) alumni wear the black and white student cap and many higher education students wear student coveralls. One tradition is to drink sima, a home-made low-alcohol mead, along with freshly cooked tippaleipä, funnel cakes in English.\n\nIn the capital, Helsinki, and its surrounding region, fixtures include the capping (on 30 April at 6 pm) of Havis Amanda, a nude female statue in Helsinki, and the biennially alternating publications of ribald matter called ' and ', by engineering students of Aalto University. Both are sophomoric; but while ' is a standard magazine, ' is always a gimmick. Classic forms have included an ' printed on toilet paper and a bedsheet. Often, Äpy has been stuffed inside standard industrial packages, such as sardine cans and milk cartons. For most university students, ' starts a week before the day of celebration. The festivities also include a picnic on 1 May, which is sometimes prepared in a lavish manner, particularly in Ullanlinnanmäki in central Helsinki.\nIn Turku, it has become a tradition to cap the Posankka statue.\n\n\"Vappu\" coincides with the socialist May Day parade. Expanding from the parties of the left, the whole of the Finnish political scene has adopted \"\" as the day to go out on stumps and agitate. This isn’t limited only to political activists; many institutions, such as the Lutheran Church of Finland, have followed suit, marching and making speeches. Left-wing activists of the 1970s still party on May Day. Carnivals are arranged, and many radio stations play leftist songs, such as The Internationale.\n\nTraditionally, 1 May is celebrated by the way of a picnic in a park. For most, the picnic is enjoyed with friends on a blanket with food and sparkling wine. Some people arrange extremely lavish picnics with pavilions, white tablecloths, silver candelabras, classical music and extravagant food. The picnic usually starts early in the morning, where some of the previous night's party-goers continue their celebrations from the previous night.\n\nSome student organisations reserve areas where they traditionally camp every year. Student caps, mead, streamers and balloons have their role in the picnic and the celebration as a whole.\n\nOn the Feast of Saint Walburga, \"many thousand\" people have made Christian pilgrimages to Saint Walburga's tomb in Eichstätt on the Feast of Saint Walburga, often obtaining vials of Saint Walburga's oil.\n\nIn Germany, ' (\"Witches' Night\"), the night from 30 April to 1 May, is the night when witches are reputed to hold a large celebration on the Brocken and await the arrival of spring and is held on the same night as Saint Walpurgis Night (').\n\nA scene in Goethe's \"Faust Part One\" is called \",\" and one in \"Faust Part Two\" is called \"Classical .\" The last chapter of book five in Thomas Mann's \"The Magic Mountain\" is also called \".\" In Edward Albee's 1962 play \"Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?,\" Act Two is entitled \".\"\n\nFrom Bram Stoker's short story, \"Dracula's Guest\", an Englishman (whose name is never mentioned) is on a visit to Munich before leaving for Transylvania. It is Walpurgis Night, and in spite of the hotelier's warning not to be late coming back, the young man later leaves his carriage and wanders toward the direction of an abandoned \"unholy\" village. As the carriage departs with the frightened and superstitious driver, a tall and thin stranger scares the horses at the crest of a hill.\n\nIn some parts of northern coastal regions of Germany, the custom of lighting huge fires is still kept alive to celebrate the coming of May, while most parts of Germany have a derived Christianized custom around Easter called \"Easter fires\" (\").\n\nIn rural parts of southern Germany, it is part of popular youth culture to play pranks such as tampering with neighbours' gardens, hiding possessions, or spraying graffiti on private property.\n\nIn Berlin, traditional leftist May Day riots usually start at Walpurgis Night in the in . There is a similar tradition in the district of Hamburg, though in both cases, the situation has significantly calmed down in the past few years.\n\nWhile the name Walpurgis is taken from the eighth-century English Christian missionary Saint Walburga, \", as it is called in Swedish, also marks the arrival of spring. The forms of celebration vary in different parts of the country and between different cities. Walpurgis celebrations are not a family occasion but rather a public event, and local groups often take responsibility for organising them to encourage community spirit in the village or neighbourhood. Celebrations normally include lighting the bonfire, choral singing and a speech to honour the arrival of the spring season, often held by a local celebrity.\nIn the Middle Ages, the administrative year ended on 30 April. Accordingly, this was a day of festivity among the merchants and craftsmen of the town, with trick-or-treat, dancing and singing in preparation for the forthcoming celebration of spring. Sir James George Frazer in \"The Golden Bough\" writes, \"The first of May is a great popular festival in the more midland and southern parts of Sweden. On the eve of the festival, huge bonfires, which should be lighted by striking two flints together, blaze on all the hills and knolls.\"\n\nWalpurgis bonfires are part of a Swedish tradition dating back to the early 18th century. At Walpurgis ('), farm animals were let out to graze and bonfires (', \"\") lit to scare away predators. In Southern Sweden, an older tradition, no longer practiced, was for the younger people to collect greenery and branches from the woods at twilight. These were used to adorn the houses of the village. The expected reward for this task was to be paid in eggs.\nChoral singing is a popular pastime in Sweden, and on Walpurgis Eve virtually every choir in the country is busy. Singing traditional songs of spring is widespread throughout the country. The songs are mostly from the 19th century and were spread by students' spring festivities. The strongest and most traditional spring festivities are also found in the old university cities, such as Uppsala and Lund, where undergraduates, graduates, and alumni gather at events that last most of the day from early morning to late night on April 30, or ' (\"The Last Day of April\") as it is called in Lund, or ' as it is called in Uppsala. For students, Walpurgis Eve heralds freedom. Traditionally the exams were over and only the odd lecture remained before term ends. On the last day of April, the students don their characteristic white caps and sing songs of welcome to spring, to the budding greenery and to a brighter future.\n\nMore modern Valborg celebrations, particularly among Uppsala students, often consist of enjoying a breakfast including champagne and strawberries. During the day, people gather in parks, drink considerable amounts of alcoholic beverages, barbecue, and generally enjoy the weather, if it happens to be favorable.\n\nIn Uppsala, since 1975, students honor spring by rafting on through the center of town with rickety, homemade, in fact quite easily wreckable, and often humorously decorated rafts.\nSeveral nations also hold \"Champagne Races\" (), where students go to drink and spray champagne or somewhat more modestly priced sparkling wine on each other. The walls and floors of the old nation buildings are covered in plastic for this occasion, as the champagne is poured around recklessly and sometimes spilled enough to wade in. Spraying champagne is, however, a fairly recent addition to the Champagne Race. The name derives from the students running down the downhill slope from the Carolina Rediviva library, toward the Student Nations, to drink champagne.\n\nIn many students and former students begin the day at the park , in the field below Belvederen where the city laws permits alcohol, to drink champagne breakfast in a similar way to Uppsala. Later at 15:00 o'clock the students and public gather at the courtyard of Linköping Castle. Spring songs are sung by the Linköping University Male Voice Choir, and speeches are made by representatives of the students and the university professors.\n\nIn Gothenburg, the carnival parade, The Cortège, which has been held since 1909 by the students at Chalmers University of Technology, is an important part of the celebration. It is seen by around 250,000 people each year. Another major event is the gathering of students in to listen to student choirs, orchestras, and speeches. An important part of the gathering is the ceremonial donning of the student cap, which stems from the time when students wore their caps daily and switched from black winter cap to white summer cap.\n\nIn , there is a tradition of having local bonfires. During recent years, however, there has been a tradition of celebrating Walpurgis at the Umeå University campus. The university organizes student choir songs, there are different types of entertainment and a speech by the president of the university. Different stalls sell hot dogs, candies, soft drinks, etc.\n\nAs in all Germanic countries, ' was celebrated in areas of what is now the Netherlands. It has not been celebrated recently due to the national ' (Queen's Day) falling on the same date, though the new \"\" (King's Day) is on 27 April. The island of Texel celebrates a festival known as the \" (roughly translated as 'May-Blaze') on that same day, where bonfires are lit near nightfall, just as on Walpurgis, but with the meaning to drive away the remaining cold of winter and welcome spring. Occasional mentions to the ritual occur, and at least once a feminist group co-opted the name to call for attention to the position of women (following the example of German women's organizations), a variety of the Take Back the Night phenomenon.\n\nStill, in recent years a renewed interest in pre-Christian religion and culture has led to renewed interest in Heksennacht (Witch's Night) as well. In 1999, suspicions were raised among local Reformed party members in Putten, Gelderland of a Heksennacht festival celebrated by Satanists. The party called for a ban. That such a festival even existed, however, and that it was 'Satanic' was rejected by most others. The local Church in Dokkum, Friesland organized a Service in 2003 to pray for the Holy Spirit to, according to the church, counter the Satanic action.\n\nIn Lincolnshire Walpurgis Night was observed in rural communities until the second half of the 20th century, with a tradition of hanging cowslips to ward off evil.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3610880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3610880", "title": "Wendell Gee", "text": "Wendell Gee\n\n\"Wendell Gee\" is a song by the American alternative rock band R.E.M., released as the third and final single from the group's third studio album \"Fables of the Reconstruction\" in 1985. It was released in Europe only, in two 7\" and two 12\" formats.\n\nInstrumentally, the song was almost entirely composed and performed by Mike Mills, with Michael Stipe supplying the lyric and vocal. (Mills' backing vocal is \"Gonna miss you, boy\".) Peter Buck hated the song when it was initially recorded, claiming its only redeeming feature was his banjo solo, and it was only included on the album at the last minute. With Buck's objections being such, the song was very rarely played live, even on the European leg of the Reconstruction tour where it had been released as a single. Buck has since revised his view of the song, saying \"I must admit, I was wrong. I don't love it, but I like it.\" \n\nThe subject of the song died just after R.E.M. completed their 1995 world tour in support of the previous year's \"Monster\". He was 69. \n\nAll songs written by Bill Berry, Peter Buck, Mike Mills and Michael Stipe unless otherwise indicated.\n\n7\"\n\n7\" double pack and 12\" - Holland\n\n12\" - UK\n\n Recorded at the Music Hall, Seattle, Washington; June 27, 1984.\n"}
{"id": "14209484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14209484", "title": "World Scrabble Championship 2007", "text": "World Scrabble Championship 2007\n\nThe World Scrabble Championship 2007 was held in the Taj President Hotel, Mumbai, India between 9 November and 12 November. The winner was Nigel Richards of New Zealand.\n\nThe tournament began with a 24-round Swiss tournament, whose top two players contested a best-of-five final.\n\nThe preliminary stage involved 104 players, the largest number of players in WSC history, over 24 rounds, using the \"Chew Pairing\" system to select the draw for each round.\n\nNigel Richards beat Ganesh Asirvatham of Malaysia 3-0 in the final. This was the first time either of them had reached the final. Ganesh was the number 1 rated player in the world at the time, and Nigel the form player had always been knocking on the door in majors and was a multiple winner of the Brand's Crossword Game King's Cup including 2007.\n\nNigel won the first game 412-316. He bingoed VARSITy; Ganesh bingoed sERINGA. Nigel's opening play was GAVOT with the V on the centre star. During the game Ganesh missed the bingo OUTCRAWL.\n\nNigel won the second game 400-371. Ganesh took an early lead with AETHERS but had to exchange tiles twice, and although he caught up again with ANTIENTS and a late-game bingo DUPLiED, and Nigel only bingoed once with ODONAtE, Nigel won on the strength of the value he got out of the J, Q and X with JERBIL, QUOHOG and FAX.\n\nNigel wins the third game 499-470 and becomes New Zealand's first world champion. This game was a bingo-fest with Nigel's RECOPIES, EQuINIAS and OVERAPT to Ganesh's TRECKING, ADNATION, DIrTIEST and a triple-triple TAILLEUR. However, once again, Nigel's luck with drawing the high scoring letters saw him have the edge in a fitting finale.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2444468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2444468", "title": "Wyndham's Theatre", "text": "Wyndham's Theatre\n\nWyndham's Theatre is a West End theatre, one of two opened by actor/manager Charles Wyndham (the other is the Criterion Theatre). Located on Charing Cross Road in the City of Westminster, it was designed c.1898 by W.G.R. Sprague, the architect of six other London theatres between then and 1916. It was designed to seat 759 patrons on three levels; later refurbishment increased this to four seating levels. The theatre was Grade II* listed by English Heritage in September 1960.\n\nWyndham had always dreamed of building a theatre of his own, and through the admiration of a patron and the financial confidence of friends, he was able to realise his dream. Wyndham's Theatre opened on 16 November 1899, in the presence of the Prince of Wales. The first play performed there was a revival of T. W. Robertson's \"David Garrick\".\n\nIn 1910, Gerald du Maurier began an association with the theatre which lasted 15 years and to include the stage debut of the screen actress Tallulah Bankhead. Du Maurier's small daughter, Daphne, often watched her father's performance from the wings. Thirty years later she presented her own play, \"The Years Between\", on the same stage.\n\nIn April 1953 the theatre premiered Graham Greene's first play, \"The Living Room\", with a cast including Dorothy Tutin. In January 1954, a small-scale musical pastiche, Sandy Wilson's \"The Boy Friend\", which had premiered at the much smaller Players' Theatre, was moved to the Wyndham stage. It ran for 2,078 performances, before eventually transferring to Broadway. During the 60s and early 70s, the theatre continued to provide a setting for stars such as Alec Guinness (\"Wise Child\"), Vanessa Redgrave and Diana Rigg.\n\nThe blockbuster of the 1970s decade – \"Godspell\" – opened at Wyndham's in January 1972 and ran to October 1974. The original cast included David Essex, Marti Webb and Jeremy Irons. \nAmong more recent distinguished productions were the world premiere of \"The Ride Down Mt. Morgan\" by American playwright Arthur Miller and the British premiere of Edward Albee's \"Three Tall Women\", starring Maggie Smith. Twenty-five years after making her debut there, Diana Rigg returned to play a hugely successful season as Medea. The critically acclaimed comedy, \"'Art'\", by Yasmina Reza, began its record-breaking run at Wyndham's in 1996 with Albert Finney, Tom Courtenay and Ken Stott in the cast. It opened in October 1996, and transferred to the Whitehall Theatre in October 2001.\n\nMadonna made her West End debut there in 2002, performing in a sell-out production of \"Up For Grabs\". This was followed by many other dramatic productions, including \"Dinner\" and the National Theatre's \"Democracy\" during 2004, Holly Hunter in \"By The Bog Of Cats\", American TV star Ruby Wax in a children's stage version of \"The Witches\", which ran during March 2005; followed by a controversial limited season of Eve Ensler's \"The Vagina Monologues\", which ran without the stars – Sharon Osbourne and her daughter Aimee, who dropped out the night before the production opened. Since then, theatre patrons have seen Sienna Miller star alongside Helen McCrory, Reece Shearsmith and Clive Rowe in a new production of Shakespeare's \"As You Like It\".\n\nA large-scale replica of the facade of the theatre was constructed at the Universal Studios theme park in Orlando, Florida as part of the park's London-themed area.\n\nIn May 2005, the theatre was taken over by Cameron Mackintosh's Delfont-Mackintosh Ltd., which began operations of the venue in September 2005. In October 2005 the theatre presented Tom Stoppard's \"Heroes\", a translation of the French play \"Le vent des peupliers\" by Gérald Sibleyras, which starred Richard Griffiths and John Hurt.\n\nThe following year the theatre hosted a new production of Joanna Murray-Smith's play \"Honour\" starring Diana Rigg, Martin Jarvis and Natascha McElhone, which ran between 7 February and 6 May 2006. It later hosted the West End transfer of the Menier Chocolate Factory's hit production of Stephen Sondheim's musical \"Sunday in the Park with George\", which starred Daniel Evans and Jenna Russell and ran till September. Between December 2006 and April 2007, the theatre presented the West End commercial transfer of Alan Bennett's National Theatre hit \"The History Boys\" which played to sell-out houses during its run until April 2007.\n\nBill Kenwright's production of Somerset Maugham's \"The Letter\" played through summer 2007. There was a short hiatus after Chita Rivera was forced to postpone a scheduled London return. \"Shadowlands\", based on the life story of C.S. Lewis opened in October 2007, starring Charles Dance and Janie Dee, before another return of Alan Bennett's \"The History Boys\" from December 2007.\n\nThe theatre closed temporarily for refurbishment works, before reopening in September 2008 with Kenneth Branagh starring in Michael Grandage's production of Chekhov's \"Ivanov\". This new version by Tom Stoppard was the opening play in the Donmar West End twelve-month season at Wyndham's, with tickets at Donmar Warehouse prices.\n\nThe Donmar West End season also included Derek Jacobi starring in \"Twelfth Night\", Judi Dench in Yukio Mishima's \"Madame de Sade\", and Jude Law in \"Hamlet\", all staged by Grandage.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40261769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40261769", "title": "YOGTZE case", "text": "YOGTZE case\n\nThe YOGTZE case (, also BAB-Rätsel, \"Autobahn Riddle\") refers to the death of unemployed German food engineer Günther Stoll, which occurred on 26 October 1984. \n\nIt is one of the most mysterious unsolved cases in German criminal history. \n\nIn 1984, Günther Stoll, an unemployed food engineer from , was suffering from a moderate case of paranoia. Prior to his death, he occasionally spoke to his wife of \"them,\" unknown people who supposedly intended to harm him. He mentioned \"them,\" specifically, on the evening of 25 October 1984 (at approximately 23:00), before suddenly shouting \"Jetzt geht mir ein Licht auf!\" (\"Now I've got it!\"). He then wrote the six letters \"YOG'TZE\" (it is not conclusive if the third letter was intended to represent a '6' or a 'G') on a sheet of paper before instantly crossing them out.\n\nShortly thereafter, Stoll went to his favorite pub in Wilnsdorf, where he ordered a beer and fell on the ground, injuring his face. Witnesses stated that he was not under the influence of alcohol and that he suddenly lost consciousness.\n\nHe awoke and drove away in his VW Golf I. It is not known what he did in the next two hours. At around 01:00 on 26 October 1984, he went to , where he grew up. There, he talked to a woman he knew from his childhood and mentioned a \"horrible incident.\" Since it was so late at night, the woman advised him to go to his parents' place, and talk to them instead. He then left.\n\nAt approximately 3:00am, two truck drivers discovered Stoll's crashed vehicle in a trench adjacent to the A45, near the Hagen-Süd exit, from Haigerseelbach.\nBoth truck drivers testified to having seen an injured person in a white jacket walking near the car. After calling law enforcement, the drivers found the severely injured Günther Stoll naked in his car. He was conscious and mentioned four male persons who had been with him in the car, and had run away. When asked if the men were his friends, Stoll denied it. He died on the way to hospital.\n\nThe criminal investigation showed that Stoll was injured before the crash, and must have been hit by a car elsewhere, and subsequently positioned in the passenger's seat of his car and driven to the location where he was discovered.\n\nIt was also concluded that he was naked at the time he was run over. Other drivers reported seeing a hitchhiker at the Hagen-Süd exit. Neither the hitchhiker nor the person in the white jacket were identified. Suspicions regarding Stoll's holiday trips to the Netherlands, where he was thought to have made contact with drug dealers, proved unfounded.\n\nThe meaning of the letters \"YOG'TZE\" remains unknown, however, some suggest it may be properly read upside-down.\n\nOn 12 April 1985, the case was presented on the popular German television program \"Aktenzeichen XY … ungelöst\".\n"}
