{"id": "32807300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32807300", "title": "ASCAP boycott", "text": "ASCAP boycott\n\nThe ASCAP boycott was a boycott of the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (ASCAP) by radio broadcasters, due to license fees. From another perspective, it was a boycott of radio broadcasters by ASCAP, \"concerned about the unlicensed radio broadcast of its members' material ...\"\n\nBetween 1931 and 1939, ASCAP increased royalty rates charged to broadcasters some 448%. \n\nIn 1940, when ASCAP tried to double its license fees, radio broadcasters prepared to resist their demands by enforcing a boycott of ASCAP, and inaugurating a competing royalty agency, Broadcast Music Incorporated (BMI).\n\nDuring a ten-month period lasting from January 1 to October 29, 1941, no music licensed by ASCAP (1,250,000 songs) was broadcast on NBC nor CBS radio stations. Instead, the stations played songs in the public domain, regional music and styles (like rhythm and blues or country) that had been traditionally disdained by ASCAP. And it resulted in a lot of classical compositions being recorded by the big bands.\n\nWhen the differences between ASCAP and the broadcasters were resolved, ASCAP agreed to settle for a lower fee than they had initially demanded.\n\n\"Jeanie with the Light Brown Hair\", an 1854 song, was a notorious beneficiary of the ASCAP boycott. According to \"Time Magazine\", \"So often had BMI's Jeannie [sic] With the Light Brown Hair been played that she was widely reported to have turned grey.\" Another beneficiary was Glenn Miller's \"the Song of the Volga Boatmen\".\n"}
{"id": "2241223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2241223", "title": "Accommodation (law)", "text": "Accommodation (law)\n\nAccommodation is a legal obligation entered into as a gratuitous favor without consideration, such as a signature guaranteeing payment of a debt. This is sometimes called an accommodation endorsement.\n"}
{"id": "39355305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39355305", "title": "An act to affirm the policy of the United States regarding Internet governance", "text": "An act to affirm the policy of the United States regarding Internet governance\n\nThe bill H.R. 1580 ()(long title: \"To affirm the policy of the United States regarding Internet governance\") was a bill introduced into the United States House of Representatives in the 113th United States Congress. The bill primarily listed a series of Congressional \"findings\" regarding the internet, its use, and the way it has been governed. Finally, the bill affirms that \"it is the policy of the United States to preserve and advance the successful multistakeholder model that governs the Internet.\"\n\n\"This section is primarily composed of the exact text of H.R. 1580 as it was first introduced.\" \n\nSECTION 1. FINDINGS.\nThe 113th United States Congress finds the following:\n\nSEC. 2. POLICY REGARDING INTERNET GOVERNANCE.\nIt is the policy of the United States to preserve and advance the successful multistakeholder model that governs the Internet.\n\n\"End legislation text.\"\n\nH.R. 1580 was introduced into the House of Representatives by Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR) on April 16, 2013. The bill was referred to the United States House Committee on Energy and Commerce and then the United States House Energy Subcommittee on Communications and Technology.\n\nAs of May 13, 2013, the bill had 32 co-sponsors, all of them original co-sponsors that had signed up as co-sponsors on April 16, 2013. Of these co-sponsors, 26 were Republicans and 6 were Democrats.\n\nA Congressional Budget Office report from May 2, 2013, indicated that \"based on information from the Federal Communications Commission and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, CBO estimates that implementing the bill would not have an effect on spending subject to appropriation because the workloads of those agencies would not be affected.\" \n\nThe bill was reported out of committee on May 3, 2013, alongside House Report 113-50. The House Majority Leader Eric Cantor announced on Friday May 10, 2013, that H.R. 1580 would be considered the following week.\n\nThe Internet Association, a lobbying organization, released a statement on April 18, 2013 expressing its support for the legislation. In their statement, they argued that \"the unique nature of the Internet – free from government control and governed by multiple stakeholders – has unleashed unprecedented entrepreneurialism, creativity, innovation, and freedom far beyond imagination. Preserving a free Internet for all people is essential to the preservation of political and economic liberty.\" \n\nSection 2 of the legislation text was altered during the committee process in order to gain support from Congressional Democrats. The original concluding statement of the bill included the phrase \"free from government control\" seen in the Discussion Draft. Rep. Henry Waxman (D-CA) stated that Democrats objected to the language because they fears it would restrict the Federal Communications Commission and its ability to enforce its own rules of network neutrality.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20277882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20277882", "title": "Attorney General for Northern Ireland", "text": "Attorney General for Northern Ireland\n\nThe Attorney General for Northern Ireland is the chief legal adviser to the Northern Ireland Executive for both civil and criminal matters that fall within the devolved powers of the Northern Ireland Assembly. The Attorney General for Northern Ireland is also responsible for appointing the Director and Deputy Director of the Public Prosecution Service for Northern Ireland.\n\nThe original post was formed in 1921 with the establishment of the Parliament of Northern Ireland and was always held by an Ulster Unionist Party MP. A Deputy Attorney General briefly held office in 1946, when the post was held by Edmond Warnock MP (21 June – 11 September).\n\nThe Attorney General for England and Wales performed the role of Attorney General for Northern Ireland after the prorogation of the Parliament of Northern Ireland in 1972. These office-holders were always United Kingdom Government Ministers.\n\nJustice powers were again devolved to the Northern Ireland Assembly on 12 April 2010, at which point the Attorney General for England and Wales ceased to hold office as Attorney General of Northern Ireland. She instead became Advocate General for Northern Ireland and a vacancy occurred. The current office-holder, John Larkin QC, is politically independent and took office on 24 May 2010, when he was appointed by First Minister Peter Robinson and deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness.\n\nThe role and powers of the Attorney General for Northern Ireland are provided in the Justice (Northern Ireland) Act 2002. He or she is appointed for a term of not more than five years jointly by the First Minister and deputy First Minister of Northern Ireland. The Attorney General is permitted to participate in the proceedings of the Assembly, but not to vote.\n\nColour key (for political parties): \n\nColour key (for political parties): \n\nColour key (for political parties): \n\n\n"}
{"id": "3306645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3306645", "title": "Benjamin Mako Hill", "text": "Benjamin Mako Hill\n\nBenjamin Mako Hill (born December 2, 1980) is a free software activist, hacker, and author. He is a contributor and free software developer as part of the Debian and Ubuntu projects as well as the co-author of three technical manuals on the subject, \"Debian GNU/Linux 3.1 Bible\", \"The Official Ubuntu Server Book\", and \"The Official Ubuntu Book\".\n\nHill is an assistant professor in Communication at the University of Washington, and serves as a member of the Free Software Foundation board of directors.\n\nHill has a master's degree from the MIT Media Lab and received a PhD in an interdepartmental program involving the MIT Sloan School of Management and the MIT Media Lab. Since fall 2013, he is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Communication at the University of Washington. He is also a Fellow at the MIT Center for Civic Media where he coordinates the development of software for civic organizing. He has worked as an advisor and contractor for the One Laptop per Child project. He is a speaker for the GNU Project, and serves on the board of Software Freedom International (the organization that organizes Software Freedom Day). Since 2006 he is married to Mika Matsuzaki, having used mathematically constrained wedding vows at the marriage ceremony.\n\nSince 1999, Hill has been an active member of Debian. He has served as a delegate of the Debian Project Leader, and is a founder and coordinator of Debian Non-Profit, a Debian custom distribution designed to fill the needs of small non-profit organizations. In addition he served on the board of Software in the Public Interest from March 2003 until July 2006, serving as the organisation's vice-president from August 2004.\n\nHill is also a core developer and founding member of Ubuntu, and continues to be an active contributor to the project. In addition to technical responsibilities, he coordinated the construction of a community around the Ubuntu Project as project \"community manager\" (later ceding the role to Jono Bacon) during Ubuntu's first year and a half. During this period, he worked full-time for Canonical Ltd. Within the Project, he served on the \"Community Council\" governance board that oversees all non-technical aspects of the project, until October 2011. His work included contributing to a code of conduct and diversity statement for the project.\n\nIn addition to software development, Hill writes extensively. He has been published in academic books and magazines, newsletters, and online journals, and \"Slate Magazine\" republished one of his blog posts. He is the author of the Free Software Project Management HOWTO, the canonical document on managing FOSS projects, and has published academic work on FOSS from anthropological, sociological, management and software engineering perspectives and has written and spoken about intellectual property, copyright, and collaboration more generally. He has also studied the sociology of community involvement in web communities, and been widely published and cited about projects like Scratch and Wikipedia. He has talked about these topics publicly, as well as giving a keynote address at 2008 OSCON.\n\nHill has worked for several years as a consultant for FOSS projects specializing in coordinating releases of software as free or open software and structuring development efforts to encourage community involvement. He spends a significant amount of his time traveling and giving talks on FOSS and intellectual property primarily in Europe and North America.\n\nPrevious to his current positions, Hill pursued research full-time as a graduate researcher at the MIT Media Laboratory. At the lab, he has worked in both the Electronic Publishing and Computing Culture groups on collaborative writing and decision-making software. One project, Selectricity is an award-winning voting tool which received prizes and grants from MTV and Cisco. He was a fellow at the Harvard Berkman Center for Internet & Society and the MIT Center for Civic Media.\n\nHe serves on the advisory board of the Wikimedia Foundation, the advisory council of the Open Knowledge Foundation and the board of the Free Software Foundation. He was a founding member of the Ubuntu Community Council in 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "563239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=563239", "title": "Biogenic substance", "text": "Biogenic substance\n\nA biogenic substance is a product made by or of life forms. The term encompasses constituents, secretions, and metabolites of plants or animals. In context of molecular biology, biogenic substances are referred to as biomolecules. \n\n\nAn abiogenic substance or process does not result from the present or past activity of living organisms. Abiogenic products may, e.g., be minerals, other inorganic compounds, as well as simple organic compounds (e.g. extraterrestrial methane, see also abiogenesis).\n\n"}
{"id": "54571553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54571553", "title": "Bruce Vawter", "text": "Bruce Vawter\n\nBruce Vawter was a Vincentian priest and a biblical scholar.\n\nVawter was born in 1921 at Fort Worth, and joined the Vincentians in 1942. He was ordained in 1947. Vawter received his doctorate in sacred Scripture from the Pontifical Biblical Institute in Rome, and then was a Fulbright scholar at Eberhard University in Tübingen, West Germany.\n\nVawter was chairman of De Paul University's department of religious studies from 1969 until June 1986.\n\nVawter was a witness in the 1981 Creationism trial, reported as McLean v. Arkansas, at Little Rock, Arkansas.\n\nVawter died on 1 December 1986.\n\nVawter authored more than a dozen works.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5298193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5298193", "title": "Carl Joachim Friedrich", "text": "Carl Joachim Friedrich\n\nCarl Joachim Friedrich (; ; born June 5, 1901, Leipzig, German Empire – September 19, 1984, Lexington, Massachusetts) was a German-American professor and political theorist.\n\nHis writings on law and constitutionalism made him one of the world's leading political scientists in the post-World War II period. He is one of the most influential scholars of totalitarianism.\n\nBorn on June 5, 1901, in Leipzig, the site of the first significant defeat of the Napoleonic armies, Friedrich was the son of renowned professor of medicine Paul Leopold Friedrich, the inventor of the surgical rubber glove, and a Prussian countess of the von Bülow family. He attended the Gymnasium Philippinum from 1911 to 1919, where he received an elite German secondary education focusing on classical languages and literature (at his American naturalization proceeding, he described his religion as \"Homer\"). Friedrich studied under Alfred Weber, the brother of Max Weber, at the University of Heidelberg, where he graduated in 1925, having also attended several other universities and even put in a brief stint working in the Belgian coal mines.\n\nFriedrich's family had strong ties to the United States. His brother, Otto Friedrich, went on to become an industrialist prominent in the German rubber industry. Both brothers lived and studied in America on and off immediately after World War I, but Carl elected to remain in the United States and Otto to return to Germany. They temporarily broke off relations during the 1940s because of Otto's allegiance to the Nazi party and prominent role in German industry during the Third Reich, but they reestablished contact after the end of World War II.\n\nIn the 1920s, while a student in the United States, Carl founded, and was president of, the German Academic Exchange Service, through which he first met the love of his life, Lenore Pelham, also a writer and then a student at Rockford College, outside Chicago. The two later married. In 1926, he was appointed as a lecturer in Government at Harvard University. He received his Ph.D. from Heidelberg in 1930. When Hitler came to power, he decided to remain in the United States and become a naturalized citizen. He was appointed Professor of Government at Harvard in 1936.\n\nFriedrich's main areas of thought were the problems of leadership and bureaucracy in government, public administration, and comparative political institutions. An extremely popular lecturer, Friedrich also wrote prolifically, producing 31 volumes on political history, government, and philosophy and editing another 22 (then the second most in Harvard's history). In the 1930s, Professor Friedrich also played a leading role, with one of his students, the then-unknown David Riesman, by his side, in efforts to help Jewish scholars, lawyers, and journalists who were fleeing Nazi Germany and other Fascist regimes resettle in the United States. He persuaded one of them, the pianist Rudolf Serkin, to give a concert at his farm in Brattleboro, Vermont, an event which led to the establishment of the Marlboro Music Festival.\n\nAn expert on German constitutional law and the conditions surrounding its breakdown, Friedrich supported representative democracy. He strongly opposed direct democracy, however, particularly the use (or misuse) of referendums, as leading to totalitarianism. He stressed the necessity for maintaining the rule of law, supplemented by a strong infrastructure of civil institutions, and was highly suspicious of grass-roots popular movements.\n\nDuring World War II, Friedrich helped found the School of Overseas Administration to train officers for military work abroad and served as its director from 1943 to 1946. He also served on the Executive Committee of the Council for Democracy, concerned with convincing the American people of the necessity for fighting totalitarianism and with strengthening national morale.\n\nFriedrich, who was arguably the most knowledgeable scholar in his field (of German Constitutional history) of his time, was endowed with a healthy self-regard. Indeed, some of his colleagues at Harvard regarded him as a \"somewhat hybristic person who was overly confident of his own abilities.\"\n\nFriedrich was the author of an article \"Poison in Our System\" for the June 1941 issue of the \"Atlantic Monthly\", criticizing \"Songs For John Doe\", an album of songs against Roosevelt's peacetime draft (issued in May 1941, before Hitler's Germany had declared war on the United States), by the Almanac Singers, who included the then twenty-one-year-old Pete Seeger, performing under the pseudonym 'Pete Bowers'. Friedrich was apparently as alarmed by the potential for uncontrolled spread of such topical songs as he was by their (fairly innocuous by current standards) content, and opined that \"mere\" legal suppression would be an inadequate antidote, calling for the establishment of civilian pressure groups to take cultural countermeasures:\nThese recordings are distributed under the innocuous appeal: \"Sing out for Peace\". Yet they are strictly subversive and illegal. . . The three records sell for one dollar and you are asked to \"play them in your home, play them in your union hall, take them back to your people.\" Probably some of these songs fall under the criminal provisions of the Selective Service Act, and to that extent it is a matter for the Attorney-General. But you never can handle situations of this kind democratically by mere suppression. Unless civic groups and individuals will make a determined effort to counteract such appeals by equally effective methods, democratic morale will decline.\n\nFrom 1946 to 1948, Friedrich served as Constitutional and Governmental Affairs Adviser to the Military Governor of Germany, General Lucius D. Clay. He advised the American military on the denazification of Occupied Germany and participated in work leading to the drafting of the West German Basic Law and the creation of Germany's States' constitutions. He later advised on the constitutions of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and Israel, among others. Between 1955 and 1971, Friedrich was Eaton Professor of the Science of Government at Harvard University and Professor of Political Science at the University of Heidelberg from 1956 to 1966.\n\nHe taught alternately at Harvard and Heidelberg until his retirement in 1971. He later taught at the University of Manchester and Duke University, among others. He also served as president of the American Political Science Association in 1962 and of the International Political Science Association from 1967-70. In 1967, Friedrich was awarded the Knight Commander's Cross of the German Order of Merit by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany.\n\nProfessor Friedrich's many students included such noted political theorists as Judith Shklar, Benjamin Barber, and Zbigniew Brzezinski.\n\nFriedrich's concept of a \"good democracy\" rejected basic democracy as totalitarian. Some of the assumptions of Friedrich's theory of totalitarianism, particularly his acceptance of Carl Schmitt's idea of the \"constitutional state\", are viewed as potentially anti-democratic by Hans J. Lietzmann. Schmitt believed that the sovereign is above the law. Klaus von Beyme sees the main focus of Friedrich's theories as the \"creation and preservation of robust institutions\". This can be seen as influencing his work on the creation of Germany's States' constitutions. His best guess as to when this might occur was the year 2000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40195393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40195393", "title": "Concerned United Birthparents", "text": "Concerned United Birthparents\n\nConcerned United Birthparents, Inc. (CUB), a non-profit organization established in 1976, is one of two primary nationwide organizations offering support to the biological parents of adopted people in the United States. The organization is credited with the creation of the term \"birthparent.\"\n\nIn the 1970s, support groups for mothers and for adoptees began to proliferate. The first groups were sponsored by adoptees' rights organizations, such as the Adoptees' Liberty Movement Association (ALMA), which was founded by adoptee Florence Fisher in 1971. Soon after, in 1976, Concerned United Birthparents (CUB) was founded by surrendering mother Lee Cambell. The original mission was \"to provide support for birthparents who have relinquished a child to adoption; to provide resources to help prevent unnecessary family separations; to educate the public about the life-long impact on all who are touched by adoption; and to advocate for fair and ethical adoption laws, policies, and practices.\"\n\nA 2003 revision of this statement formally extended CUB’s area of emphasis to include \"all family members separated by adoption rather than birth parents alone. \"CUB grew rapidly in the late 1970s and early 1980s, drawing new members from around the country.\" \n\nAs of mid-2013 CUB maintained headquarters in Encinitas, California. The group currently has 10 chapters and over 400 members around the United States.\n\nCUB is actively interested in search-related issues, and new members may insert free ads in the organization's newsletter. CUB members believe adoption is not always necessary, especially when the birthparent's problem is a temporary one, such as inadequate finances or lack of emotional support. The members can provide assistance to birthparents for whom adoption is not the first choice yet who see no other answer. The organization also works for changes in adoption policy.\n\nAccording to adoption historian Ellen Herman, CUB organizer Lee Campbell and her co-founders were the first to coin the term \"birthmother\" (and by extension \"birthparents\") in an effort to describe the relationship between the biological parents and the child put up for adoption in a new way. The term was introduced as a compromise between \"natural mother\" and \"biological mother.\"\n\nAccording to Campbell:\n\"We didn't want to upset adoptive parents with ‘natural.’ And ‘biological’ now made us gag. 'Biological,' we felt, was descriptive of a mechanical incubator or unfeeling baby machine. 'Birth' was the key. With 'birth parents' as one word...we were like other one-word progenitors, like grandparents.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "25415024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25415024", "title": "Cousin marriage law in the United States by state", "text": "Cousin marriage law in the United States by state\n\nCousin marriage acceptance differs from one U.S. state to another ranging from being legal to a criminal offense.\n\n"}
{"id": "53802616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53802616", "title": "Edward M. Fuller &amp; Company", "text": "Edward M. Fuller &amp; Company\n\nEdward M. Fuller & Company was a prominent New York stock brokerage. Founded in 1914 and owned by the sole partners William Frank McGee and Edward M. Fuller, by 1922 it was the largest brokerage on the Little Board. The firm went bankrupt in 1922, resulting in a high-profile legal case and indictments against the former partners.\n\nThe New York City brokerage firm Edward M. Fuller & Company was founded in 1914. The firm joined as a member of the Consolidated Stock Exchange of New York in February 1918, and remained listed as of 1922. By 1922, it was the largest brokerage house on the Consolidated Exchange, with only two members of the firm: Edward M. Fuller and W. F. McGee. There were two offices in New York, one uptown and one at 50 Broad Street. By late June 1922, it had successful branches in Chicago, Boston, Cleveland, Pittsburgh, and Uniontown, Pennsylvania. The firm had the accounts of 1,500 to 1,800 people, with 2,100 customers in Chicago. As of June 1922, Edward M. Fuller's office remained at 50 Broad Street. That month, a woman was given a suspended sentence for threatening Fuller with a non-existent gun at his office over an alleged agreement between her, the brokerage, and Arnold Rothstein.\n\nIn February 1922 all trading records at the Consolidated Stock Exchange were broken after months of good business. Later that month, however, several brokerages and firms within the exchange failed \"without warning,\" shocking the industry. In mid-July a new series of unexpected failures occurred at Consolidated, including Edward M. Fuller & Company, which failed on June 27, 1922 for $6,000,000. In the bankruptcy petition filed in the U.S. District Court in New York, assets were estimated at $250,000 and liabilities at $500,000. The \"New York Times,\" however, reported that the Chicago outlook was that there were negligible assets to offset the customer claims totaling $1,250,000. Hays, St. John & Moore of 43 Exchange Place were hired as attorneys for the firm. \n\nOn June 27, 1922, the firm was suspended from the Consolidated Exchange, with Consolidated president William S. Silkworth attributing the suspension to \"reckless and unbusinesslike methods\" and a failure to meet commitments. To explain the failure, Silkworth also argued that Edward Fuller had been hit hard in Mexican Petroleum stock. However, as W. S. Silkworth's brother George Silkworth had been a partner at Fuller, accusations of insider corruption abounded. Fuller of Great Neck, New York did not comment on the failure, while his partner William F. McGee of 73rd Street was also unavailable that day. According to the \"Times\", the next day employees filtered in to find no executives explaining the failure, and everything except furniture removed from the office spaces. The \"Times\" also repeated the rumor that the firm's private files had been broken into and circulated directly after the failure, possibly by a clerk.\n\nOn August 2, 1922, District Attorney Banton was denied access to the books of E. M. Fuller Co. to use in pursuing a case against the firm. Albert Ottinger began working on an investigation into the Fuller bankruptcy in December 1922 out of the Anti-Fraud Bureau in New York. The Ottinger investigation began in late May. \n\nWilliam Silkworth testified about the bankruptcy on June 6, 1923 and on June 7 he appeared in the Criminal Courts Building. Although Assistant Attorney General William F. McKenna failed to implicate Silkworth in the Fuller bankruptcy, he did uncover irregularities in Silkworth's personal finances. The irregularities showed he had made large deposits in March 1922, some related to the Fuller account. \n\nIn mid June 1923, Edward M. Fuller plead guilty to bucketing customers orders. He appeared on June 18, 1923 before Coffin to \"reveal the methods of his firm\" and the names of his superiors, and the superiors of his partner W. Frank McGee. William Silkworth resigned as Consolidated president on June 21, 1923 and soon after went on a \"long vacation.\" After examining the papers of the firm, on June 27, 1923, William M. Chadbourne, counsel for the 4,000 creditors of E.M. Fuller Co., informed United States District Attorney William Hayward and District Attorney Joab H. Banton that the firm had committed \"crimes other than bucketing.\" Edward M. Fuller and William F. McGee were sent to jail on June 6, 1927 by General Session Judge Charles C. Nott. They both received parole from Sing Sing Prison the day before June 1, 1928. In June 19, 1928, it was reported that the Division of Licenses had refused to give McGee and Fuller licenses as realty brokers, which had been their \"reported intention.\" The division felt the two men had lost their citizenship through their felony conviction, and that a provision of law deemed them unfit.\n\n"}
{"id": "1198216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1198216", "title": "Estate planning", "text": "Estate planning\n\nEstate planning is the process of anticipating and arranging, during a person's life, for the management and disposal of that person's estate during the person's life and at and after death, while minimizing gift, estate, generation skipping transfer, and income tax. Estate planning includes planning for incapacity as well as a process of reducing or eliminating uncertainties over the administration of a probate and maximizing the value of the estate by reducing taxes and other expenses. The ultimate goal of estate planning can be determined by the specific goals of the client, and may be as simple or complex as the client's needs dictate. Guardians are often designated for minor children and beneficiaries in incapacity.\n\nThe law of estate planning overlaps to some degree with elder law, which additionally includes other provisions such as long-term care.\n\nEstate planning involves the will, trusts, beneficiary designations, powers of appointment, property ownership (joint tenancy with rights of survivorship, tenancy in common, tenancy by the entirety), gift, and powers of attorney, specifically the durable financial power of attorney and the durable medical power of attorney.\n\nMore sophisticated estate plans may even cover deferring or decreasing estate taxes or business succession.\n\nWills are a common estate planning tool, and are usually the simplest device for planning the distribution of an estate. It is important that a will be created and executed in compliance with the laws of the jurisdiction where it is created. If it is possible that probate proceedings will occur in a different jurisdiction, it is important also to ensure that the will complies with the laws of that jurisdiction or that the jurisdiction will follow the provisions of a valid out-of-state will even if they might be invalid for a will executed in that jurisdiction.\n\nA trust may be used as an estate planning tool, to direct the distribution of assets after the person who creates the trust passes away. Trusts may be used to provide for the distribution of funds for the benefit of minor children or developmentally disabled children. For example, a spendthrift trust may be used to prevent wasteful spending by a spendthrift child, or a special needs trust may be used for developmentally disabled children or adults. Trusts offer a high degree of control over management and disposition of assets. Furthermore, certain types of trust provisions can provide for the management of wealth for several generations past the settlor. Typically referred to as dynasty planning, these types of trust provisions allow for the protection of wealth for several generations after a person's death.\n\nAn estate plan may include the creation of advance directives, documents that direct what will happen to a person's estate and in relation to their personal care if the person becomes legally incapacitated. For example, an estate plan may include a healthcare proxy, durable power of attorney, and living will.\n\nAfter widespread litigation and media coverage surrounding the Terri Schiavo case, estate planning attorneys often advise clients to also create a living will. Specific final arrangements, such as whether to be buried or cremated, are also often part of the documents.\n\nIncome, gift, and estate tax planning plays a significant role in choosing the structure and vehicles used to create an estate plan.\n\nIn the United States, assets left to a spouse or any qualified charity are not subject to U.S. Federal estate tax. Assets left to any other heir, including the decedent's children, may be taxed if that portion of the estate has a value in excess of the estate tax exemption. As of 2018, the federal estate tax exemption was $11,180,000. For a married couple, the combined exemption is $22,360,000.\n\nOne way to avoid U.S. Federal estate and gift taxes is to distribute the property in incremental gifts during the person's lifetime. Individuals may give away as much as $15,000 per year (in 2018) without incurring gift tax. Other tax free alternatives include paying a grandchild’s college tuition or medical insurance premiums free of gift tax—but only if the payments are made directly to the educational institution or medical provider.\n\nOther tax advantaged alternatives to leaving property, outside of a will, include qualified or non-qualified retirement plans (e.g. 401(k) plans and IRAs) certain “trustee” bank accounts, transfer on death (or TOD) financial accounts, and life insurance proceeds.\n\nBecause life insurance proceeds generally are not taxed for U.S. Federal income tax purposes, a life insurance trust could be used to pay estate taxes. However, if the decedent holds any incidents of ownership like the ability to remove or change a beneficiary, the proceeds will be treated as part of his estate and will generally be subject to the U.S. Federal estate tax. For this reason, the trust vehicle is used to own the life insurance policy. The trust must be irrevocable to avoid taxation of the life insurance proceeds.\n\nCountries whose legal systems evolved from the British common law system, like the United States, typically use the probate system for distributing property at death. Probate is a process where\n\nDue to the time and expenses associated with the traditional probate process, modern estate planners frequently counsel clients to enact probate avoidance strategies. Some common probate-avoidance strategies include:\n\nIf a revocable living trust is used as a part of an estate plan, the key to probate avoidance is ensuring that the living trust is \"funded\" during the lifetime of the person establishing the trust. After executing a trust agreement, the settlor should ensure that all assets are properly re-registered in the name of the living trust. If assets (especially higher value assets and real estate) remain outside of a trust, then a probate proceeding may be necessary to transfer the asset to the trust upon the death of the testator.\n\nAlthough legal restrictions may apply, it is broadly possible to convey property outside of probate, through such tools as a living trust, forms of joint property ownership that include a right of survivorship, payable on death account, or beneficiary designation on a financial account or insurance policy. Beneficiary designations are considered distributions under the law of contracts and cannot be changed by statements or provisions outside of the contract, such as a clause in a will.\n\nIn the United States, without a beneficiary statement, the default provision in the contract or custodian-agreement (for an IRA) will apply, which may be the estate of the owner resulting in higher taxes and extra fees. Generally, beneficiary designations are made for life insurance policies, employee benefits, (including retirement plans and group life insurance) and Individual Retirement Accounts. \n\nMediation serves as an alternative to a full-scale litigation to settle disputes. At a mediation, family members and beneficiaries discuss plans on transfer of assets. Because of the potential conflicts associated with blended families, step siblings, and multiple marriages, creating an estate plan through mediation allows people to confront the issues head-on and design a plan that will minimize the chance of future family conflict and meet their financial goals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27369729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27369729", "title": "European Public Hearing on Crimes Committed by Totalitarian Regimes", "text": "European Public Hearing on Crimes Committed by Totalitarian Regimes\n\nCrimes Committed by Totalitarian Regimes are reports and proceedings of the European public hearing organised by the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union (January–June 2008) and the European Commission. The Hearing was organised in response to the request made by the \"Justice and Home Affairs Council\" of the European Union on 19 April 2007.\n\nEdited by Peter Jambrek and published by the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union Crimes, the reports and proceedings research and investigate gross and large scale human rights violations committed during the reign of totalitarian regimes in Europe.\n\nThere were four sessions at the Hearing: \nThe preface was written by the Slovenian Minister of Justice Lovro Šturm, and the introduction by Jacques Barrot, Vice-President of the European Commission for Justice, Freedom and Security. Countries that were involved were: Estonia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovenia, Poland and Spain.\n\nI. HISTORY, CHARACTERISTICS AND CLASSIFICATION OF TOTALITARIAN REGIMES\n\nII. TOTALITARIAN CRIMES: CROSS-NATIONAL SURVEY \n\nIII. TRANSITIONAL JUSTICE: PROSECUTION AND REDRESS Of INJUSTICE \nIV. REMEMBRANCE, RECOGNITION AND PUBLIC AWARENESS Of TOTALITARIAN \nV. RECONCILIATION: ON HANDLING THE TRAUMATIC PAST\n\nThe report stated the following about Totalitarian machines:\n\nThe European Parliament has proposed August 23 as a common remembrance day of Victims of Totalitarian Regimes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8371598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8371598", "title": "European Union shipping law", "text": "European Union shipping law\n\nEuropean Union shipping law is the body of law developed by the European Union (\"EU\") relating to shipping or maritime matters.\n\nShipping is extremely important to the European Union. The EU is the world's largest trading bloc and therefore very dependent on shipping. About 90% of its trade with the rest of the world is carried by sea and around 40% of its internal trade is carried by sea. The EU has a coastline twice that of Russia and three times that of the US so it is acutely aware of maritime safety and environmental issues. More than 350 million passengers sail annually through its 1200 ports. It is also a major employer in the EC and a significant source of foreign income.\n\nIn principle, all of EU law applies to the maritime sector. Nonetheless, despite the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community (now the European Community (the \"EC\")) having been signed on 25 March 1957, it was not until the 1970s, that there was any serious attempt to develop European laws relating to shipping. During the 1970s, a number of attempts were made to develop laws in particular areas such as liner conferences, the environment and pilotage. It was not however until the 1980s, particularly 1986, that a serious body of EC shipping law evolved. On 22 December 1986, the Council of Ministers adopted four Regulations which lay the foundations for most of EC shipping law. In the 1990s and 2000s so far, the law has developed in various areas including competition and anti-trust law but also in the areas as safety, the environment, ports and employment.\n\nIn principle, all EU shipowners are free to provide maritime services either between Member States or within Member States (i.e., provide cabotage services). The right to provide international maritime services (provided one EU port was involved) is enshrined in Regulation 4055/86.\n\nOne of the most controversial topics is the application of competition law to maritime transport and, in particular, liner conferences.\n\nCompetition law is the set of legal rules designed to ensure freedom or rivalry in the marketplace. It is known as \"antitrust law\" in the US.\n\nBetween 1986 and 2006, the EC had a special regime exempting many liner conferences from the application of the prohibition on anti-competitive arrangements (i.e. Article 81 of the EC Treaty (now Article 101 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union)). This exemption was contained in Regulation 4056/86 which has now been repealed, effective October 2008. Many other countries such as Singapore, Japan and China, in an effort to prevent destructive competition, are allowing price-setting immunity of liner conferences.\n\nEU State aid law is becoming of increasing significance in the sector. Ports have to ensure that developments are compliant with State aid law and Member States may therefore have to notify proposed aid schemes to the European Commission for prior approval.\n\n"}
{"id": "43641194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43641194", "title": "Evidence-based policing", "text": "Evidence-based policing\n\nEvidence-Based Policing (EBP) is an approach to policy making and tactical decision-making for police departments. It is an extension of evidence-based medicine, evidence-based management and evidence-based policy.\n\nAdvocates of evidence-based policing emphasize the value of statistical analysis, empirical research and ideally randomized controlled trials. EBP does not dismiss more traditional drivers of police decision-making, but seeks to raise awareness and increase the application of scientific testing, targeting and tracking of police resources, especially during times of budget cuts and greater public scrutiny.\n\nExperiments had been used in earlier decades to find better policing methods, before Lawrence Sherman first outlined a definition of \"evidence-based policing\" in 1998.\n\nThe Police Foundation was founded in 1970 and in 1971-72 worked with the Kansas City Police Department to carry out a landmark study on car patrols. In the early 1980s, Sherman worked with Richard Berk and the Police Foundation to carry out the Minneapolis Domestic Violence Experiment. The study showed that arresting domestic violence suspects was a deterrent against repeat offending. The study had a \"virtually unprecedented impact in changing then-current police practices.\" Sherman later worked with fellow criminologist David Weisburd for a 1995 study which showed the efficacy of focusing police crime prevention resources on small hot spots of crime.\n\nIn a 1998 Police Foundation \"Ideas in American Policing\" lecture, Sherman outlined the concept of \"evidence-based policing\". His core idea was that police practice can be made far more effective if tactics proven to work during controlled field experiments are prioritized. Angel Cabrera later described Sherman as being the \"father\" of evidence-based policing.\n\nIn February 2000, Sherman co-founded the Campbell Collaboration's Crime and Justice Group, which has pursued the synthesis of research evidence on the effectiveness of policing and other crime prevention practices. In 2013 Sherman established the Cambridge Centre for Evidence-Based Policing as a global police training and research consultancy service for members, and\nin 2017 he launched the Cambridge Journal of Evidence-Based Policing as the membership journal of the Cambridge Centre. The Journal's priority is to publish original, applied research led by \"pracademic\" police officers, with many articles based on master's degree theses completed under supervision of Sherman and his Cambridge colleagues, Heather Strang and Sir Denis O'Connor, by police leaders who were mid-career, part-time students in the Cambridge Police Executive Programme. \n\nThe first professional Society of Evidence-Based Policing was founded at Cambridge University in 2010, and now has some 2,000 members from mostly UK police agencies. In 2013, police in collaboration with the University of Queensland established the Australian-New Zealand Society of Evidence-Based Policing, which now has over 2000 members. In 2015, both Canada, and the United States established their own branches of this learned professional society. The Police Foundation provided support for the establishment of the American Society of Evidence-Based Policing, as it once did to create the Police Executive Research Forum (PERF) and the National Organization of Black Law Enforcement Executives (NOBLE).\n\nEvidence can be used in a number of ways to support policing:\n\nPolicy-makers may factor in the population-wide priorities in policing action. Freedom from violent coercion is associated with happier populations, which may inform the use of force, or actions that nominally enforce laws but raise levels of community violence. Law enforcement may make enforcement decisions on the basis of flow-through effects in subsequent crimes. For instance, a 2011 meta-analysis drug market disruption, such as seizures of illicit goods or arrests of organised crime figures, as with drug prohibition increases levels of community violence and associated crimes. This contraindicates certain drug control strategies. And, evidence from illicit distribution/trafficking networks suggest that gang membership isn't important to the flow of resources between violent, competing groups. With community outcomes in mind, this would contraindicate bans on gang membership. The use of evidence in this manner sometimes leads to law enforcement decisions that contrast with popular intuition. For instance, gang members are not prohibited from joining the United States military.\n\nPolice may also share evidence about the consequences of crime as a preventative measure. For instance, politically motivated groups that use violent methods, or escalate from nonviolent to violent methods are less likely to gain the compliance of governments, suggesting that terrorism is less effective than civil action. And, bank robbery typically only returns around 15,000 UK pounds per person.\n\nEvidence can also be used in sentencing. Certainty of punishment, and therefore consistency of sentencing deters crime far more effectively than the imminence or severity of punishment.\n\nIn 2008, Sherman made EBP the core of the Police Executive Programme at Cambridge University, a part-time course of study for senior police leaders from around the world to earn a Diploma or Master’s in applied criminology. In that year, the National Policing Improvement Agency (NPIA) funded the first international conference on EBP, which was attended by police executives from Asia, Australia, Europe and the US. Since then the conference has been held each July, with the 10th International Conference in 2017 attended by over 300 police and scholars from six continents.\n\nIn 2010, a group of UK police officers founded the Society of Evidence-Based Policing, and elected Sherman Honorary President, along with Sir Peter Fahy, Chief Constable of the UK's Greater Manchester Police; as of 2015 the Society has over 2,800 members, including its 750-member Australia-New Zealand affiliate, consisting primarily UK police officers but with membership from Australia to Argentina and North America. The Society's twice-annual UK meetings have attracted over 200 attendees per meeting (including 2015), as well as press coverage.\n\nIn 2012, the UK Home Office founded the College of Policing, which took over many of the responsibilities of the National Police Improvement Agency (formally abolished in 2013). One of the College's five strategic objectives is \"identifying, developing and promoting good practice based on evidence\". The College is committed to identifying and sharing with police practitioners \"what works\". In 2013, the UK's largest police force, London's Metropolitan Police Service committed to \"crime fighting based on what we know works\".\n\nThe What Works Centre for Crime Reduction is part of a network of What Works Centres created to provide easy access to robust and comprehensive evidence to guide decision-making on public spending. The Crime Reduction Toolkit is an online tool that allows users to weigh up evidence on the impact, cost and implementation of different interventions and use this to help shape their crime reduction efforts. The What Works Centre Crime Reduction Toolkit currently includes 35 evaluations of interventions and has identified over 300 systematic reviews covering 60 different interventions.\n\nEBP is acknowledged by some senior police leaders as a valuable approach to improve policing. The FBI Academy offers a course on EBP.\n\nEBP has become the subject of debate in research journals, deliberating the extent to which policing should be guided by experimental criminology. But there is consensus that more needs to be done to bridge the 'translation gap' between frontline police officers and academics.\n\nAcademics from the Department of Criminology, Law and Society at George Mason University launched the Center for Evidence-Based Crime Policy in 2008. Their Evidence-Based Policing Matrix records, orders and rates scientific evaluations in policing and seeks to enable police departments to access and assess existing evidence.\n\nIn 2015, a group of working police officers and crime analysts formed the American Society of Evidence-Based Policing (www.americansebp.com). This organization was formed with the intent of educating police officers about the concept of EBP, advocating for the use of best available research to drive policing strategies and tactics and facilitating the creation of new research findings by connecting researchers and practitioners. Membership is open to all serving police officers, civilian staff members, researchers and academics. The first annual ASEBP conference will be held on the campus of Arizona State University in Phoenix, Arizona on May 22nd and 23rd, 2017 with conference attendees and panelists representing the United States, Canada, Mexico and the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Australia & New Zealand Society of Evidence Based Policing (ANZSEBP) was formed in April 2013 in Brisbane, Australia. The ANZSEBP is a police practitioner-led Society. The mission of the ANZSEBP is to develop, disseminate and advocate for police to use scientific research (“the evidence”) to guide best practice in all aspects of policing. \nThe Society comprises both full members (current, serving police officers in Australia and New Zealand) and honorary members including police staff members (non-sworn), research professionals and others who aim to make evidence based approaches part of everyday policing in Australia and New Zealand.\nThe ANZSEBP held its inaugural conference at the Australian Institute of Police Management, Sydney, Australia in March 2015. The Society was fortunate to secure Professor David Weisburd (George Mason University), Mr Peter Neyroud (Cambridge University), Professor Lorraine Mazerolle (University of Queensland), Chief Superintendent Alex Murray West Midlands Police (Chair of the UK SEBP) and Assistant Commissioner Peter Martin (Chair of the ANZ SEBP) to present at the conference. Further to that six short shot presentations were made that highlighted experiments or research throughout Australasia.\n\nThe Canadian Society of Evidence Based Policing (CAN-SEBP) was launched in April 2015 in Manchester, UK, as an affiliate of the UK-based Society of Evidence Based Policing, as well as ASEBP and ANZ-SEBP. CAN-SEBP is a collaborative effort between police practitioners and academic researchers aimed at generating actionable research to inform policy, practice, education and training in the field of public safety. Partners in the Society - who maintain executive-level steering and oversight functions - include representatives from several Canadian police forces and universities. Other agencies and researchers serve as active collaborators. \nCAN-SEBP's membership consists of active and retired police officers, civilian police members, applied policing researchers, graduate researchers and representatives from provincial, federal and municipal community safety groups. \nCAN-SEBP's international advisory group includes: Professor David Weisburd (George Mason University), Mr Peter Neyroud (Cambridge University), Professor Lorraine Mazerolle (University of Queensland), Chief Superintendent Alex Murray West Midlands Police (Chair of the UK SEBP) and Assistant Commissioner Peter Martin (Chair of the ANZ SEBP).\n\n"}
{"id": "1228762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1228762", "title": "Fry's Island", "text": "Fry's Island\n\nFry's Island, also known as De Montfort Island, is an island in the River Thames in England. The island is on the reach above Caversham Lock at Reading, Berkshire. The centre of Reading is to the south and the suburb of Caversham to the immediate north.\n\nFry's Island is a natural island, the only access to it being by boat. It is home to a private house (\"Demontfort House\"), a boatyard with a residence (\"Caversham Boat Services\") and a private bowling club (the \"Island Bohemian Club\"). Each of these occupants runs their own private ferry service.\n\nFry's Island is famous as the location of a trial by combat between Robert de Montfort and Henry of Essex, the standard bearer to King Henry II. The contest took place while the royal court was in residence at Reading Abbey in 1163. Robert had accused Henry of Essex of cowardice and treason, because he had dropped the royal standard and called out that the King was dead during a battle with the Welsh. Henry of Essex denied these charges. \n\nKing Henry decreed that this dispute must be resolved in a trial by combat, to be undertaken on what is now Fry's Island. At the height of the combat, Henry of Essex fell wounded, and believing he was dead the King ordered the monks of the abbey to carry his body away and bury it. However, Henry was still alive, and the monks nursed him back to health. Because he had lost the combat he was adjudged guilty as charged and stripped of his lands and honours; however, he was permitted to become a monk at the abbey, where he remained for the rest of his life.\n\nThe first reference to the Island Bohemian Club dates back to 1908, when it held an annual general meeting under the name of the Old Codgers Club. The present name was adopted in 1909, and purchased the freehold of its part of the island in two phases in 1961 and 1968.\n\nDemontfort House was built in 1897. During WW2 the house was used as an American Services 'club'. In the 1960s the house operated as the 'Blue Beat Island Club', the club was the subject of a police raid in 1965.\n\nCaversham Boat Services was established in 1970. The residence and large workshop are housed in the former Reading Rowing Club building built in 1893. The adjacent boatyard of Bridge Boats was established in 1958 as a builder of wooden boats, becoming a boat hire business in the 1980s. The business was taken over and merged with Caversham Boat Services in 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "2285190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285190", "title": "Gastein Convention", "text": "Gastein Convention\n\nThe Gastein Convention (), also called the \"Convention of Badgastein\", was a treaty signed at Bad Gastein in Austria on 14 August 1865. It embodied agreements between the two principal powers of the German Confederation, Prussia and Austria, over the governing of the so-called 'Elbe Duchies' of Schleswig, Holstein and Saxe-Lauenburg. \n\nThe Duchies of Schleswig and Holstein had been united under Danish rule since 1460. While Schleswig north of the Eider River was a Danish fief, the Duchies of Holstein officially remained an estate of the Holy Roman Empire which the Kings of Denmark held as an Imperial fief. In 1815 King Frederick VI of Denmark also acquired the adjacent Duchy of Saxe-Lauenburg. Both Holstein and Lauenburg were member states of the German Confederation since 1815. \n\nWhen in 1858 the Danish national liberal Council President Carl Christian Hall drafted the 'November Constitution' in order to link Schleswig more closely to the Danish kingdom, he sparked German protests, and troops of the German Confederation eventually occupied Holstein and Lauenburg in 1863. In the following Second Schleswig War, Denmark was defeated and according to the Treaty of Vienna signed on 30 October 1864 had to cede the Elbe Duchies to victorious Prussia and Austria. \n\nAfter the war, the two powers faced the issue of governing the provinces formerly held by the Danish royal House of Glücksburg in personal union. Prussia aimed at the annexation of the territories as provinces with her state territory, against the strong resistance of the Austrians, who persisted on the status of autonomous duchies of the Confederation ruled as a condominium. To ease tensions, the Prussian minister-president Otto von Bismarck met with the Austrian envoy Gustav von Blome at the spa town of Bad Gastein in the Austrian Alps.\n\nIn the negotiations, the administration of the gained territories was split between the two powers: Prussia would rule over Schleswig and Austria over Holstein. Austria would officially renounce Saxe-Lauenburg, which would be ruled by the Prussian king in personal union for a purchase price of 2.5 million Danish rigsdalers.\n\nThe eleven articles of the agreement signed on 14 August 1865 covered:\nThe treaty was ratified by both parties on 19 August. King William I of Prussia went on to rule Lauenburg in personal union and assumed the ducal title.\n\nBismarck's negotiation skills had apparently been underestimated by Blome. Though Prussia benefitted from the treaty, the minister-president noted that the 'bonding of cracks' did not answer the German question nor did it ease the Austria–Prussia rivalry. Moreover the treaty ran counter to the legal basis of the German Confederation, which led to the refusal by the smaller Confederation states and turned out detrimental to the reputation especially of the Austrian side. The European powers reacted strongly, the French emperor Napoleon III responded with protest, while the British saw their interests in the North Sea as threatened; the treaty was nevertheless appreciated by Russia in view of her enmity with Austria after the Crimean War. \n\nThe Gastein Convention marked the end off all attempts to seek a peaceful solution of the German question. It soon collapsed due to Bismarck's successful efforts to provoke a war with the Austrian Empire as well as to eliminate Austria from the German Confederation. The Austrian government had tolerated the rule of Duke Frederick VIII of Schleswig-Holstein, much to the chagrin of Prussia. On 1 June 1866 Austria asked the Federal Convention for a resolution on the status of Holstein, which Prussia regarded as a breach of the mutual agreement. Under this pretext, Prussian troops entered Holstein nine days later which led to the outbreak of the Austro-Prussian War, also known as the Seven Weeks' War.\n\nThe Peace of Prague in 1866 confirmed Denmark's cession of Schlewig and Holstein, which were both annexed by Prussia, but promised a plebiscite to decide whether north Schleswig wished to return to Danish rule. This provision was unilaterally set aside by a resolution of Prussia and Austria in 1878. Instead the Prussian Province of Schleswig-Holstein was created in 1868. Both territories were to be admitted to the \"Zollverein\" (German Customs Union), headed by Prussia, of which Austria was not a member.\n"}
{"id": "2841620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2841620", "title": "Gonzales v. Oregon", "text": "Gonzales v. Oregon\n\nGonzales v. Oregon, 546 U.S. 243 (2006), was a U.S. Supreme Court case in which ruled the Court held that the United States Attorney General cannot enforce the federal Controlled Substances Act against physicians who prescribed drugs, in compliance with Oregon state law, to terminally ill patients seeking to end their lives, often referred to as medical aid in dying. It was the first major case heard by the Roberts Court under the new Chief Justice of the United States.\n\nIn November 1994, voters in the state of Oregon approved Measure 16, a ballot initiative that established the Oregon Death with Dignity Act, with 51.3% of voters supporting it and 48.7% opposing it. The Act legalized medical aid in dying in the state of Oregon. The law permits physicians to prescribe a lethal dose of medication to a competent adult, agreed by two doctors to be within six months of dying from an incurable condition. \n\nAs of February 29, 2012, the Oregon Public Health Division reported that since \"the law was passed in 1997, a total of 935 people have had DWDA prescriptions written and 596 patients (64% of prescriptions) have died from ingesting medications prescribed under the DWDA.\"\n\nOpponents of the measure sued, and on December 27, 1994, U.S. District Judge Michael Robert Hogan issued a preliminary injunction forbidding the state from enforcing the statute, then, on August 3, 1995, declared the law unconstitutional under the Equal Protection Clause. However, after the Supreme Court of the United States rejected that reasoning in \"Washington v. Glucksberg\" (1997), the measure was allowed to take effect. A 1997 referral to voters by the Oregon Legislative Assembly aimed to repeal the Death with Dignity Act but was defeated by a 60% margin.\n\nMembers of Congress next sought to have the federal government prosecute physicians obeying the new Oregon law, and DEA Administrator Thomas A. Constantine told them that he had authority to do so under the Controlled Substances Act (CSA). However, Attorney General Janet Reno rejected that interpretation of the law and determined the federal government had no power to interfere with physicians obeying the Oregon law. Senator John Ashcroft then supported legislation explicitly granting the Attorney General that authority, but the bills failed to pass.\n\nAfter Senator Ashcroft became United States Attorney General in 2001, he secured a memorandum from the Office of Legal Counsel concluding that physician-assisted suicide violates the CSA. On November 9, 2001, Attorney General Ashcroft published an \"Interpretive Rule\" that physician-assisted suicide was not a legitimate medical purpose and that any physician administering federally controlled drugs for that purpose would be in violation of the Controlled Substances Act.\nOregon Attorney General Hardy Myers, joined by a physician, a pharmacist, and a group of terminally ill patients, all from Oregon, filed a challenge to Attorney General Ashcroft's interpretation in the United States District Court for the District of Oregon. On April 17, 2002, U.S. District Judge Robert E. Jones granted summary judgment to Oregon and issued a permanent injunction against the enforcement of the Interpretive Rule. On May 26, 2004, that ruling was affirmed by United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit Judge Richard C. Tallman joined by Senior Circuit Judge Donald P. Lay, over the dissent of Senior Circuit Judge John Clifford Wallace. The circuit panel majority invoked a clear statement rule regarding federalism in the United States to reject the Attorney General Ashcroft's interpretation.\n\nThe federal government's petition for a writ for certiorari was granted and one hour of oral arguments were heard on October 5, 2005, with Paul Clement, the Solicitor General of the United States, personally appearing.\n\nOn January 17, 2006, the Court delivered judgment in favor of Oregon, affirming the lower court by a vote of 6-3. Justice Anthony Kennedy, joined by Justices John Paul Stevens, Sandra Day O'Connor, David Souter, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, and Stephen Breyer determined that the Controlled Substances Act (CSA) did not give the Attorney General the power to interfere with physicians obeying the state law. The Court did not dispute the power of the federal government to regulate drugs, but it disagreed that the statute in place empowered the attorney general to overrule state laws on the appropriate use of medications allowed.\n\nThe Court first determined it did not need to grant substantial deference to the Justice Department's interpretation of its own regulation under \"Auer v. Robbins\" (1997) because the regulation merely restated the terms of the CSA. Likewise, the Court found that, although the phrase \"legitimate medical purpose\" in the statute is ambiguous, the Attorney General’s interpretation was not entitled to Chevron deference because the CSA delegated medical judgments to the expertise of the United States Secretary of Health and Human Services, not to the Attorney General. Finally, the Court found the Attorney General's conclusions regarding the phrase unpersuasive under \"Skidmore v. Swift & Co.\" (1944) because Congress would have been more explicit if it had intended to empower the Attorney General to unilaterally create new crimes through regulation.\n\nJustice Antonin Scalia, joined by Chief Justice John Roberts and Justice Clarence Thomas, respectfully dissented. Justice Scalia believed that agency deference should be given to the Attorney General under both \"Auer\" and \"Chevron\". Even without granting any agency deference, the Attorney General's interpretation was reasonable because, Scalia argued: \"If the term 'legitimate medical purpose' has any meaning, it surely excludes the prescription of drugs to produce death.\"\n\nJustice Thomas also filed a brief dissent, alone. Thomas made clear that, although he still believes the CSA is not empowered by the Constitution's Interstate Commerce Clause to regulate purely intrastate conduct, if it were the Attorney General's interpretation of the statute would be reasonable. Thomas argued that the opinion of the Court was inconsistent with the reasoning in \"Gonzales v. Raich\" (2005). He also dissented in that decision in which five of the six justices in the majority in \"Oregon\" found broad federal authority under the CSA for Congress to forbid the growth of medical marijuana.\n\nHe had argued for a more limited congressional power under the Commerce Clause in \"Raich\", which focused on intrastate and interstate commerce. In \"Oregon\", by contrast, the case was a matter of the validity of an executive interpretation of that statute.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53130114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53130114", "title": "Hague Protection of Adults Convention", "text": "Hague Protection of Adults Convention\n\nThe Hague Protection of Adults Convention, formally the Convention on the International Protection of Adults is convention concluded by the Hague Conference on Private International Law in 2000. The convention entered into force in 2009 and currently applies in nine states. The convention is aimed at the protection of Vulnerable adults, persons who are \"by reason of an impairment or insufficiency of their personal faculties, are not in a position to protect their interests\". The convention\n\nAs of November 2017, the convention applies in 9 states. Furthermore, the convention will enter into force for Latvia in 2018.\n"}
{"id": "14863512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14863512", "title": "Human rights violations by the CIA", "text": "Human rights violations by the CIA\n\nThis article deals with the activities of the Central Intelligence Agency, an agency of the Federal government of the United States, that violate human rights.\n\nIn 2003, Patricia Derian, who served as Assistant Secretary of State for Human Rights in the Carter Administration wrote, \"Through these U.S. military and intelligence agencies the United States government is sending a dangerous and double message. If this continues, it will subvert our entire human rights policy.\"\n\nIn understanding the CIA's role in human rights, there are challenging problems of ethics. John R. Stockwell, a CIA officer who left the Agency and became a public critic, said of the CIA field officers: \"They do not meet the death squads on the streets where they are actually chopping up people or laying them down on the street and running trucks over their heads. The CIA people in San Salvador meet the police chiefs, and the people who run the death squads, and they do liaise with them, they meet them beside the swimming pool of the villas. And it is a sophisticated, civilized kind of relationship. And they talk about their children, who are going to school at UCLA or Harvard and other schools, and they do not talk about the horrors of what is being done. They pretend like it is not true.\"\n\nFlorencio Caballero, a former Honduran Army interrogator, said that he had been trained by the Central Intelligence Agency, which the \"New York Times\" confirmed with US and Honduran officials. Much of his account was confirmed by three American and two Honduran officials, and may be the fullest given of how army and police units were authorized to organize death squads that seized, interrogated and killed suspected leftists. He said that while Argentine and Chilean trainers taught the Honduran Army kidnapping and elimination techniques, the CIA explicitly forbade the use of physical torture or assassination.\n\nCaballero described the CIA role as ambiguous. \"Caballero said his superior officers ordered him and other members of army intelligence units to conceal their participation in death squads from CIA advisers. He added that he was sent to Houston for six months in 1979 to be trained by CIA instructors in interrogation techniques. \"They prepared me in interrogation to end the use of physical torture in Honduras - they taught psychological methods\", Mr. Caballero said of his American training. \"So when we had someone important, we hid him from the Americans, interrogated him ourselves and then gave him to a death squad to kill.\"\n\nIt is widely accepted that the CIA has both directly engaged in the torture of detainees at CIA-run black sites and has sent detainees to be tortured by friendly governments in a manner contravening both US and international law.\n\nThe existence of black sites was first published by \"The Washington Post\" in November 2005 following reports by human rights NGOs. US President George W. Bush acknowledged the existence of secret prisons operated by the CIA during a speech on 6 September 2006.\nAdministration officials such as Deputy Assistant Attorney General John Yoo(as well as prominent legal scholars such as Alan Dershowitz) publicly defended and justified the use of torture against terrorism suspects.\n\nThere are balancing assertions that CIA personnel attempted to minimize abuses by foreign governments who practiced torture before any involvement with CIA. There is evidence that CIA has funded academic research, unwitting in some cases, which was then used to develop harsh interrogation techniques.\n\nFrom 2002-2007, as part of the War on Terror, CIA personnel employed so-called \"Enhanced interrogation techniques\", a variety of coercive and abusive interrogation techniques that are widely judged to constitute torture. Various officials of the George W. Bush administration have argued that \"harsh\" techniques such as waterboarding are not torture, or the end objectives of the War against Terror justify those means. There has been considerable domestic and international protest against these practices. The United Nations' Special Rapporteur on Torture, Human Rights Watch, and American legal scholars have called for the prosecution of Bush administration officials who ordered torture, conspired to provide legal cover for torture, and CIA and DoD personnel and contract workers who carried it out.\n\nTorture and harsh imprisonment accusations (as well as documented examples) were not limited to the recent War on Terror. Yuri Nosenko, a Soviet KGB defector, was held in stark conditions of solitary confinement in a clandestine CIA facility in the continental US from 1966 to 1969.\n\nWaterboarding is a method that gives the subject the sensation of drowning, and may cause permanent damage to the lungs and other parts of the body. Some individuals being waterboarded, who may have had preexisting cardiac or respiratory disease, died under the method.\n\nFor example, the CIA used waterboarding, and other interrogation techniques against three suspected Al Quaeda members, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, Abu Zubaydah and Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri.\n\nIn 2007, Red Cross investigators concluded in a secret report that the Central Intelligence Agency's interrogation methods for high-level al Qaeda prisoners constituted torture which could make the Bush administration officials who approved them guilty of war crimes, according to the book \"Dark Side: The Inside Story of How the War on Terror Turned Into a War on American Ideals,\" by Jane Mayer a journalist for \"The New Yorker\".\n\nAccording to the book, the report of the International Committee of the Red Cross found that the methods used on Abu Zubaydah, the first major al Qaeda figure captured by the United States, were \"categorically\" torture, which is illegal under both United States law and international conventions to which the U.S. is a party. A copy of the report was given to the CIA in 2007. For example, the book states that Abu Zubaydah was confined in a box \"so small he said he had to double up his limbs in the fetal position\" and was one of several prisoners to be \"slammed against the walls,\" according to the Red Cross report. The CIA has admitted that Abu Zubaydah and two other prisoners were waterboarded, a practice in which water is poured on the nose and mouth to create the sensation of suffocation and drowning.\n\nOn 24 January 1997, two CIA manuals were declassified in response to a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request filed by the \"Baltimore Sun\" in 1994. The first manual, \"KUBARK Counterintelligence Interrogation\", dated July 1963, is the source of much of the material in the second manual. The second manual, \"Human Resource Exploitation Training Manual - 1983\", was used in at least seven U.S. training courses conducted in Latin American countries, including Honduras, between 1982 and 1987. Both manuals deal exclusively with interrogation and have an entire chapter devoted to \"coercive techniques.\" These manuals recommend arresting suspects early in the morning by surprise, blindfolding them, and stripping them naked. Interrogation rooms should be windowless, soundproof, dark and without toilets. Suspects should be held incommunicado and should be deprived of any kind of normal routine in eating and sleeping. The manuals describe coercive techniques to be used \"to induce psychological regression in the subject by bringing a superior outside force to bear on his will to resist.\"\n\nWhile the US manuals contained coercive measures, they did not rise to the level of what is generally defined as torture. Torture, however, has been culturally a part of authoritarian South American governments, especially in 1973-1983 (Dirty War). Argentina had learned such methods from the French in Operation Charly and its secret services trained the personnel of other South American countries. It is not clear to what extent field personnel and leadership of agencies of the Federal government of the United States (notably the CIA, Defense and State Departments, AID) were aware of this, condoned it, or actively assisted it.\n\nIn 2007, the chief Argentinian interrogator, Ernesto Guillermo Barreiro, was arrested in the United States. It is not clear whether he will be deported, held, or extradited. The other two arrested were Peruvians, Telmo Ricardo Hurtado and Juan Manuel Rivera Rondon, accused of having participated in the massacre of 69 peasants in an Andean village in 1985, when President Alan García was trying to suppress the Maoist Shining Path guerrilla movement. Garcia was the President of Peru again from 2006 to 2011.\n\nCIA involvement ranged from no knowledge, to knowledge but no participation, to knowledge with the suggestion that less brutal techniques were appropriate, to participation or observation.\n\nExtraordinary rendition is the process of clandestinely moving a prisoner from where he was captured, to an interrogation center in a country not subject to US law regarding extreme methods of interrogation. Some reports indicate CIA personnel operated the prison and performed the interrogations, while others state that while the CIA delivered the prisoner, third-country intelligence personnel did the actual interrogation. The Wikipedia details the list of known or suspected black sites where CIA prisoners may be detained. Known or suspected aircraft used to transport prisoners are in Rendition aircraft.\n\nA claim that the black sites existed was made by \"The Washington Post\" in November 2005 and before by human rights NGOs. US President George W. Bush acknowledged the existence of secret prisons operated by the CIA during a speech on 6 September 2006.\n\nA 50-page Human Rights Watch report, \"Ghost Prisoner: Two Years in Secret CIA Detention,\" contains a detailed description of a secret CIA prison from a Palestinian former detainee who was released from custody the previous year. Human Rights Watch has also sent a public letter to U.S. President George W. Bush requesting information about the fate and whereabouts of the missing detainees.\n\"President Bush told us that the last 14 CIA prisoners were sent to Guantanamo, but there are many other prisoners 'disappeared' by the CIA whose fate is still unknown,\" said Joanne Mariner, terrorism and counterterrorism director at Human Rights Watch. \"The question is: what happened to these people and where are they now?\"\nIn early September 2006, 14 detainees were transferred from secret CIA prisons to military custody at Guantanamo Bay. In a televised speech on 6 September 2006, President Bush announced that with those 14 transfers, no prisoners were left in CIA custody.\n\nBefore 1973, Administrations were principally concerned with a Communist threat of subversion, to be met with host country internal security forces such as the police. Police and military roles were blurred. US assistance to foreign police began in the 1950s, and increased in the early 1960s when the Kennedy administration became concerned about growing communist insurgent activities and established a public safety program within the Agency for International Development (AID) to train foreign police. By 1968 the United States was spending $60 million a year to train police in 34 countries in areas such as criminal investigation, patrolling, interrogation and counterinsurgency techniques, riot control, weapon use, and bomb disposal The United States also provided weapons, telecommunications, transportation, and other equipment. In the early 1970s, the Congress became concerned over the apparent absence of clear policy guidelines and the use of program funds to support repressive regimes that committed human rights' abuses. As a result, \"the Congress determined that it was inadvisable for the United States to continue supporting any foreign police organizations\". Both the CIA and military intelligence with Counterintelligence Force Protection Source Operations may have intelligence collecting relationships with local police.\n\nThe Bureau of Diplomatic Security, under the Department of State representatives at any embassy is expected to be aware of all contacts between US personnel and local law enforcement organizations. The 1973 legislation significantly limited police training of all sorts, partially in response to human rights concerns.\n\nThe majority of this training went to Latin America, but some did go to countries elsewhere in the world, according to Senator Alan Cranston, especially those with narcotics or terrorism problems. Cranston cited six reasons why the Congress, in 1974, banned police training, after learning of training and equipping \"police in Iran, Vietnam, Brazil, and other countries were involved in torture, murder, and the suppression of legitimate political activity\":\n\nCranston went on to say,\n\nIn principle, training and assistance to police, as opposed to military organization, is against US law, but the relevant law allows Presidential waiver of most provisions. A GAO report\n\n... provides information on (1) the legislative authority for providing assistance to foreign law enforcement agencies and personnel, (2) the extent and cost of U.S. activities, and (3) experts' opinions on the management of these programs.\n\nIn 1973 and 1974, the Congress enacted legislation forbidding U.S. agencies from using foreign economic or military assistance funds to assist foreign police, but it subsequently granted numerous exemptions to permit assistance in some countries and in various aspects of police force development, including material and weapons support, force management, narcotics control, and counterterrorism tactics. The 1974 prohibition did not apply to the use of other funds by agencies such as the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) or United States Department of Transportation (DOT) to train or assist foreign law enforcement personnel.\n\nNo government agency is in charge of calculating the cost. However, the General Accounting Office identified 125 countries that received U.S. training and assistance for their police forces during fiscal year 1990 at a cost of at least $117 million.\n\nThe prohibition did not apply to Drug Enforcement Administration DEA and Federal Bureau of Investigation FBI assistance to combat international narcotics trafficking.\n\nDuring fiscal year 1990 at a cost of about $117 million, the GAO estimated the major programs were: U.S. programs providing :\n\nCurrent and former State Department and other government officials, and academic experts who have been involved in assistance to foreign police forces, stated that the U.S. government lacks:\na clear policy, or program objectives, on the role of U.S. assistance to police forces in the new and emerging democracies, a focal point for coordination and decision-making, and a means for determining whether individual programs and activities support U.S. policy or contribute to overall U.S. interests.\n\nThey noted that each program is managed individually, and the only place that coordination is occurring is at the U.S. embassy in the country.\n\nThe US General Accounting Office obtained information on CIA training and assistance provided to foreign law enforcement personnel, reviewed the legislative authority for providing this training and assistance, and identified efforts to coordinate these activities. They did not review program implementation in recipient countries. They interviewed officials and obtained records from AID and the Departments of State, Justice, and Defense, in Washington, D.C.; reviewed legislation and agency legal opinions on foreign police assistance; interviewed academic and legal experts on current U.S. assistance to foreign police; and reviewed literature published on foreign police assistance and AID's public safety program.\n\nCongressionally approved exemptions generally authorize activities that benefit a specific U.S. goal, such as countering the terrorist threat to U.S. citizens overseas or combating drug trafficking.\nExemptions were also extended by:\nIt also expanded the judicial reform program and the police training exemption to countries in Latin America and the Caribbean. In 1988 the Congress further expanded the judicial reform program to allow police assistance to promote investigative and forensic skills, develop law enforcement training curricula, and improve administration and management of law enforcement organizations. This act specifically prohibited the Department of Defense (DOD) and the U.S. armed forces from providing training under this program.\n\nMaritime subjects were exempted from the section 660 prohibition, as well as the prohibition for any country that has a long-standing democratic tradition, does not have armed forces, and does not engage in a consistent pattern of gross violations of human rights. The act permitted such countries to receive any type of police assistance.\n\nThis series of acts approved certain police assistance activities in Latin America and the Caribbean for narcotics control purposes. The 1988 act expanded DOD's role and allowed it to provide training and weapons and ammunition in fiscal years 1989 and 1990 to foreign police units that are specifically organized for narcotics enforcement in eligible countries in Latin America and the Caribbean. This act also allowed economic support funds to be provided to Colombian police for the protection of judges, government officials, and members of the press against narco-terrorist attacks. The 1989 Act extended DOD's authority to train police units in Bolivia, Colombia, and Peru in fiscal year 1990, if the units are only for narcotics enforcement. It also allowed DOD to provide, in addition to weapons and ammunition, other defense articles such as helicopters, vehicles, radios, and personnel gear.\nThe 1990 act authorized DOD to continue to train and equip police forces in the Andean region.\n\nIn addition to the exemptions previously discussed, there are other authorities that waive the prohibition on assistance to police forces of foreign countries. For example, the President may authorize foreign assistance when `it is important to the security interests of the United States'. This allows the President to waive any provision of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, including section 660.\n\nThis aims to improve foreign governments' antiterrorist capabilities to better protect U.S. citizens and interests. In 1990, the U.S. provided assistance to 49 countries at a cost of nearly $10 million. Sixty-two percent of the funds were spent in Latin America, the Caribbean, and Europe, and less than $500,000 was used to purchase equipment. The Department of State manages the program and contracts with other U.S. government agencies, state or local police departments, and private firms to conduct the training. The Federal Aviation Administration, U.S. Customs Service, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, and the U.S. Marshals Service are regular trainers. In compliance with legislative requirements, most training takes place in the United States.\n\nOne of the objectives of the Department of State Bureau of International Narcotics Matters (INM) international narcotics control training program is to strengthen host country enforcement and interdiction capabilities. During fiscal year 1990, INM provided a minimum of $45 million in training and equipment to foreign police, principally in Mexico, Jamaica, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia, Brazil, Venezuela, Pakistan, Thailand, and Turkey. These are all narcotics producing and trafficking countries.\n\nINM reimburses other U.S. government agencies, primarily the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), Customs, and Coast Guard, to conduct the actual training. DEA provides narcotics investigative training, Customs teaches air, sea and land port search procedures, and Coast Guard teaches courses in maritime interdiction. Other agencies may also be requested to train on a reimbursable basis in areas where they have specific expertise. For example, DOD provides helicopter training to police in drug trafficking countries. Training is conducted both overseas and in the United States and is reviewed and approved by INM.\n\nIn addition, DOD used military assistance funds to train and equip narcotics enforcement police in several drug producing and trafficking countries. Documents provided by DOD show that in fiscal year 1990, DOD provided training and equipment with a value of at least $17 million to Mexico, $1.3 million to Bolivia, $10 million to Colombia, $1 million to Ecuador, and $1 million to Peru. DOD officials informed us that training and equipment valued at more than these amounts may also have been provided. However, documentation was not available at the Washington, D.C., agency headquarters level that specified the amounts for law enforcement activities. The equipment provided consisted of UH-1 helicopters and spare parts, ammunition, small arms, riot control equipment, radios, and miscellaneous personal gear.\n\nIn FY1986, AID transferred funds to DOJ to design, develop, and implement projects to improve and enhance the investigative capabilities of law enforcement agencies in the Latin America and the Caribbean region. This was part of AID's effort to reform judicial systems. Using these funds, DOJ established the International Criminal Investigative Training Assistance Program (ICITAP). Operating under State Department oversight, ICITAP has conducted criminal justice sector needs assessments in the region and has expanded its training to include basic police management and police academy development. In fiscal year 1990, ICITAP received $7 million from the Department of State for its regional program. It trained more than 1,000 students from the Caribbean, Central and South America and sponsored 7 conferences. Training includes police management, criminal investigation, crime scene search, and forensic medicine courses. Except for students sent to training programs in the United States, ICITAP training takes place overseas.\n\nThe Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) also provides limited training for foreign law enforcement officials. Each year approximately 100 international police officials attend the 11-week college level course at the FBI National Academy that includes studies on management and forensic sciences. The FBI pays for the training and subsistence, but does not pay for the students' transportation. Over the last 10 years, more than 1,100 foreign police officials from 89 countries have graduated from this course.\n\nUsing its own funds, the FBI created two training courses:\n\nThe FBI also provides other training and assistance to foreign police as requested, but the cost is unknown. For example, the National Center for the Analysis of Violent Crime provided training to Canadian police. The Criminal Investigative Division conducted a training seminar for officers from Italy's three national law enforcement agencies on the use of sensitive investigative techniques such as the operation of confidential sources, undercover operations, and electronic surveillance. The FBI also furnishes on-the-job assistance to governments who request help during particularly difficult or sensitive investigations.\n\nDOD supplies a limited amount of military training and assistance to police officials. During fiscal years 1986 and 1987, DOD trained and equipped the El Salvadoran and Honduran police to counter urban terrorist activities.\n\nThis assistance was authorized in response to the murder of U.S. Marines by terrorists in El Salvador and was managed and delivered by the U.S. Army Military Police. The assistance consisted of training in counterterrorism techniques and the supply of police vehicles, communications, weapons, and other equipment. This effort cost $19.8 million, of which $17 million was provided to El Salvador.\n\nIn fiscal year 1990, DOD spent $6.4 million in previously authorized but unused military assistance funds to purchase needed equipment and weapons for Panama's newly formed national police force. Items procured included police vehicles, communications equipment, small arms, and personal gear. This assistance was a one-time, emergency program.\n\nDOD has an ongoing military assistance program to support Costa Rican police. In fiscal year 1990, DOD supplied $431,000 in military equipment and $232,000 in military training to the Costa Rican Civil Guard to help them carry out their responsibility to protect the border regions of the country. DOD provided equipment such as vehicles, personnel gear, and radios, and military training in areas such as coastal operations. Additionally, DOD conducted technical training courses in equipment maintenance and medical skills among others.\n\nDOD, along with the United Kingdom, supports the Eastern Caribbean Regional Security System that was formed after the U.S. intervention in Grenada. The Security System is composed of a few permanently assigned military officers, but largely depends upon island nation police officers who can be called up for military duty in case of emergency. The United States equips and trains these personnel to prepare them for such an eventually. In fiscal year 1990, DOD provided $4.2 million in military assistance funds that were used to purchase equipment such as jeeps, small arms, uniforms, and communications gear. DOD also provided $300,000 for training in special operations, rural patrol, field survival, and surveillance, as well as technical courses in communications, navigation, maintenance, and medicine.\n\nSince some agencies fund assistance out of their own budgets, without necessarily having a line item for police assistance, the GAO \"could not accurately determine the extent or cost of assistance to foreign police\" In the GAO estimates, \"some double counting of students may be occurring and agencies may not be differentiating between assistance provided to police and assistance provided to the military.\" This might happen when \"the agency supplying the training and the agency paying for the training may both include the trainees in their reporting systems, such as when ICITAP pays for students attending the FBI academy.\"\n\nWhile the DOJ was asked to calculate information on its work with foreign police, it could not assign a dollar value to items including \"travel expenses, salaries, and expendable items such as course materials.\" H. \n\"Also, GAO could not always determine whether a student was a police officer or a military member because some agencies do not collect such data, DOD officials informed us that once they receive permission to train police in a specific activity they do not provide a further accounting breakdown. For example, training provided to the Eastern Caribbean Regional Security System was for law enforcement personnel, although a few trainees may have belonged to military organizations.\"\n\nProject MKULTRA, or MK-ULTRA, was the code name for a CIA mind-control research program that began in 1950, involved primarily with the experimentation of drugs and other \"chemical, biological and radiological\" stimuli on both willing and uninformed subjects.\n\nIn December 1974, \"The New York Times\" reported that the CIA had conducted illegal domestic activities, including experiments on U.S. citizens, during the 1960s. The report prompted investigations by both the U.S. Congress (in the form of the Church Committee) and a presidential commission (known as the Rockefeller Commission). The congressional investigations and the Rockefeller Commission report revealed that the CIA and the Department of Defense had in fact conducted experiments to influence and control human behavior through the use of psychoactive drugs such as LSD and mescaline and other chemical, biological, and psychological means. Experiments were often conducted without the subjects' knowledge or consent.\n\nMK-ULTRA was started on the order of CIA director Allen Dulles, largely in response to alleged Soviet, Chinese, and North Korean use of mind-control techniques on U.S. prisoners of war in Korea. The goal of the experiments was to study mind-control in order to develop methods of interrogation and behavior modification and manipulation, as well as to develop a possible truth drug.\n\nMK-ULTRA research ultimately proved useless to the CIA and they have abandoned the program. Because most MK-ULTRA records were deliberately destroyed in 1973 by order of then CIA Director Richard Helms, it is difficult if not impossible to have a complete understanding of the more than 150 individually funded research sub-projects sponsored by MK-ULTRA and related CIA programs.\n\nFollowing the recommendations of the Church Committee, President Gerald Ford in 1976 issued the first Executive Order on Intelligence Activities which, among other things, prohibited \"experimentation with drugs on human subjects, except with the informed consent, in writing and witnessed by a disinterested party, of each such human subject\" and in accordance with the guidelines issued by the National Commission. Subsequent orders by Presidents Carter and Reagan expanded the directive to apply to any human experimentation.\n\nAt least since World War II, a distinction has been drawn between assassination of civilian leaders, and targeted killings of leaders of fighting organizations. Some cases were blurry, such as the British-Czech Operation Anthropoid, the killing of uniformed SS officer Reinhard Heydrich, the acting Reichsprotektor of The Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia. A failed attempt, by British troops, to kill Field Marshal Erwin Rommel was clearly aimed at a military leader, as was the successful shooting down of Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto.\n\nCIA has admitted being involved in assassination attempts against foreign leaders. Recently, there have been targeted killings of suspected terrorists, typically with missiles fired from unmanned aerial vehicles, in a manner that a number of legal authorities believe was a legitimate act as opposed to a prohibited assassination.\n\nOf the cases cited, it appears that no CIA personnel or even directly controlled foreign agents personally killed any leader, but there certainly were cases where the CIA knew of, or supported, plots to overthrow foreign leaders. In the cases of Lumumba in 1960/61 and Castro in the 50s and 60s, the CIA was involved in preparing to kill the individual. In other cases, such as Diem, the Agency knew of a plot but did not warn him, and communications at White House level indicated that the Agency had, with approval, told the plotters the US didn't object to their plan. The gun or poison, however, was not in the hands of a CIA officer.\n\nCIA personnel were involved in attempted assassinations of foreign government leaders such as Fidel Castro. They provided support to those that killed Patrice Lumumba. In yet another category was noninterference in the Republic of Vietnam (South Vietnam) coup in which President Ngo Dinh Diem was killed.\n\nA distinction has been drawn between political assassinations and \"targeted killing\" of leaders of non-state belligerents.\n\nPerhaps the best-documented account of CIA-sponsored assassination plans were against President Fidel Castro of Cuba.\n\nAccording to columnist Jack Anderson, the first attempt was part of the Bay of Pigs Invasion operation, but five more teams were sent, the last apprehended on a rooftop within rifle range of Castro, at the end of February or beginning of March 1963. Anderson speculated that President Fidel Castro may have become aware of it, and somehow recruited Lee Harvey Oswald to retaliate against President John F. Kennedy.\n\nMaheu was identified as the team leader, who recruited John Roselli, a gambler with contacts in the American and Cuban underworlds. The CIA assigned two operations officers, William King Harvey and James O'Connell, to accompany Roselli to Miami to recruit the actual teams.\n\nAnderson's story appears to be confirmed by two CIA documents, the first referring to an Inspector General report of investigation of allegations that the Agency conspired to assassinate Fidel Castro. The story first appeared in Drew Pearson's column and has since appeared in Jack Anderson's column. \"While the columns contained many factual errors, the allegations are basically true. Second, a declassified memo from Howard Osborne, director of the CIA Office of Security, dated 15 February 1972, in the \"CIA Family Jewels\" series, from to the Executive Director, speaks of John Roselli, then serving time in a Federal penitentiary in Seattle, Washington, with deportation scheduled at the end of his sentence. While the CIA was aware \"Roselli intended to expose his participation in the plot should we not intervene in his behalf. The DCI at the time, John McCone, decided to take a calculated risk and accept the consequences of possible disclosure. Two articles by Jack Anderson discuss the plot, as well the \"Washington Post\" Sunday magazine, \"Parade\"\n\nIndividuals who were aware of this project were: Director of Central Intelligence Allen Dulles, Richard M. Bissell Jr. (Deputy Director for Plans (DDP)) Colonel J.C. King (Chief, Western Hemisphere Division, DDP), Colonel Sheffield Edwards, William Harvey, and James P. O'Connell. Also included were Robert A. Maheu (former FBI agent, public relations agent who did work for the CIA, and later an aide to Howard Hughes), and his attorneys Edward P. Morgan and Edward Bennett Williams.\n\nOn 26 February 1971, Osborne arranged with the Commissioner of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service to flag any deportation. INS confirmed they did this again for 1972.\n\nIn summary, CIA, Embassy, and other US personnel, up to White House level, were aware of yet another coup being planned against President Ngo Dinh Diem of South Vietnam. While the US had no direct participation in the coup, the plotters were told, in a deniable way, that the US did not object to it. No documentary evidence has surfaced that the US knew that Diem and his brother were to be killed, and it is unclear that all the Vietnamese plotters knew or agreed to it. President John F. Kennedy was aware of the coup plans, but apparently had not considered the hazard to Diem.\n\nAccording to the \"Pentagon Papers\", the final US loss of confidence in Diem began when his government violently suppressed a protest on Buddha's Birthday, 8 May 1963. Up to that point, the majority Buddhists had not been very politically active, even though Diem had given preference to the Catholic minority. Quickly, however, the Buddhists put a \"cohesive and disciplined [political] organization\" into action. By June, the situation moved from dissidence from a religious group to a \"grave crisis of public confidence\".\n\nThen-Ambassador Frederick Nolting had tried to persuade Diem to moderate government action against Buddhists, but with no success. While Nolting was on leave, President John F. Kennedy appointed Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr. as the new Ambassador. In June 1963, senior leaders began, for the first time, to discuss the effect of a coup to remove Diem. Nolting and the US military in Vietnam, however, argued that Diem was keeping chaos at bay. Nolting left permanently in mid-August, but the assurances from Diem died with multiple August 21 night raids on Buddhist temples in many parts of Vietnam. Two days later, a US representative was approached by generals considering a coup. On 23 August, the first contact with a U.S. representative was made by generals who had begun to plan a coup against Diem. They were told that the U.S. had determined that Diem's brother, who had led the raids on the Buddhists, could not stay in any kind of power, and that, \"then, we must face the possibility that Diem himself cannot be preserved.\"\n\nAn 8 May 1973 memorandum states that \"An Inspector General report of investigation of allegations that the Agency was instrumental in bringing about the assassination of President Ngo Dinh Diem of South Vietnam. The allegations were determined to be without foundation.\"\n\nNevertheless, the Pentagon Papers observed,\n\nFor the military coup d'etat against Ngo Dinh Diem, the U.S. must accept its full share of responsibility. Beginning in August 1963 we variously authorized, sanctioned and encouraged the coup efforts of the Vietnamese generals and offered full support for a successor government. In October we cut off aid to Diem in a direct rebuff, giving a green light to the generals. We maintained clandestine contact with them throughout the planning and execution of the coup and sought to review their operational plans and proposed new government. Thus, as the nine-year rule of Diem came to a bloody end, our complicity in his overthrow heightened our responsibilities and our commitment in an essentially leaderless Vietnam.\n\nThe Church Committee concluded it had \"solid evidence of a plot to assassinate Patrice Lumumba [the first elected Prime Minister of the Republic of Congo]. Strong hostility to Lumumba, voiced at the very highest levels of government may have been intended to initiate an assassination operation; at the least it engendered such an operation. The evidence indicates that it is likely that President Eisenhower's expression of strong concern about Lumumba at a meeting of the National Security Council on 18 August 1960, was taken by (Director of Central Intelligence) Allen Dulles as authority to assassinate Lumumba. There is, however, testimony by Eisenhower Administration officials, and ambiguity and lack of clarity in the records of high-level policy meetings, which tends to contradict the evidence that the President intended an assassination effort against Lumumba. In a footnote, the Committee cited an unnamed official as saying he had heard Eisenhower order the assassination.\"\n\nThe week after the August 18 NSC meeting, a presidential advisor reminded the Special Group of the \"necessity for very straightforward action\" against Lumumba and prompted a decision not to rule out consideration of \"any particular kind of activity which might contribute to getting rid of Lumumba.\" The Special Group is one of the many names for the often-reorganized committee that approved CIA covert action proposals. It has been called the 303 committee, Special Group (counterinsurgency), Operations Advisory Group, 5412 committee, and Forty Committee. \"The following day, Dulles cabled a CIA Station Officer in Leopoldville, Republic of the Congo,* that \"in high quarters\" the \"removal\" of Lumumba was \"an urgent and prime objective.\"\n\nShortly thereafter the CIA's clandestine service formulated a plot to assassinate Lumumba. The plot proceeded to the point that lethal substances and instruments specifically intended for use in an assassination were delivered by the CIA to the Congo Station. There is no evidence that these instruments of assassination were actually used against Lumumba.\n\nIn the meantime, Lumumba was dismissed from his post by Congolese President Joseph Kasa-Vubu, an act of dubious legality; in retaliation, Lumumba attempted to dismiss Kasa-Vubu from the presidency, an act of even more dubious legality. On 14 September, a coup d'état endorsed by the CIA and organized by Colonel Joseph Mobutu removed Lumumba from office.\n\nLumumba was killed, in 1961, by forces under the control of the President, Moise Tshombe of Katanga, a province that had declared its independence of the Republic of the Congo. Lumumba was taken by Katangan soldiers commanded by Belgians, and eventually shot by a Katangan firing squad under Belgian leadership.\n\nThe independent Republic of the Congo was declared on 30 June 1960, with Joseph Kasa-Vubu as President and Patrice Lumumba as Prime Minister. It shared a name with the neighboring Republic of the Congo to the west, a French colony that also gained independence in 1960, and the two were normally differentiated by also stating the name of the relevant capital city, so Congo (Léopoldville) versus Congo (Brazzaville).\n\nLarry Devlin became Chief of Station in Congo in July 1960, a mere 10 days after the country's independence from Belgium and shortly before Prime Minister Patrice Lumumba's two-month term in office, dismissal from power and ultimate execution. In his memoir, Devlin reveals that late in 1960, he received instructions from an agent (\"Joe from Paris\") who was relaying instructions from CIA headquarters that he (Devlin) was to effect the assassination of Lumumba. Various poisons, including one secreted in a tube of toothpaste, were proffered. The directive had come from the CIA Deputy Chief of Plans Dick Bissell, but Devlin wanted to know if it had originated at a higher level and if so, how high. \"Joe\" had been given to understand that it had come from President Dwight D. Eisenhower, but Devlin to this day does not know for sure. Devlin writes (and has recently said in public speaking engagements) that he felt an assassination would have been \"morally wrong\" and likely to backfire and work against U.S. interests. In the event, he temporized, neglecting to act, and Lumumba was ultimately murdered by his enemies in Katanga, with Belgian government participation. U.S. intelligence was kept apprised.\n\nThe United Nations Security Council was called into session on 7 December 1960 to consider Soviet demands that the U.N. seek Lumumba's immediate release, the immediate restoration of Lumumba as head of the Congo government, the disarming of the forces of Mobutu, and the immediate evacuation of Belgians from the Congo. Soviet Representative Valerian Zorin refused U.S. demands that he disqualify himself as Security Council President during the debate. Dag Hammarskjöld, answering Soviet attacks against his Congo operations, said that if the U.N. forces were withdrawn from the Congo \"I fear everything will crumble.\"\n\nFollowing a U.N. report that Lumumba had been mistreated by his captors, his followers threatened (on 9 December 1960) to seize all Belgians and \"start cutting off the heads of some of them\" unless Lumumba was released within 48 hours.\n\nAccording to the Church Committee report:\n\nIn February 1960, CIA's Near East Division sought the endorsement of what the Division Chief <nowiki>[</nowiki>James H. Critchfield<nowiki>]</nowiki> called the \"Health Alteration Committee\" for its proposal for a \"special operation\" to \"incapacitate\" an Iraqi Colonel believed to be \"promoting Soviet bloc political interests in Iraq.\" The Division sought the Committee's advice on a technique, \"which while not likely to result in total disablement would be certain to prevent the target from pursuing his usual activities for a minimum of three months,\" adding: \"We do not consciously seek subject's permanent removal from the scene; we also do not object should this complication develop.\" ... In April [1962], the [Health Alteration] Committee unanimously recommended to the DDP [Deputy Director for Plans, Richard M. Bissell Jr.] that a \"disabling operation\" be undertaken, noting that the Chief of Operations advised that it would be \"highly desirable.\" Bissell's deputy, Tracy Barnes, approved on behalf of Bissell ... The approved operation was to mail a monogrammed handkerchief containing an incapacitating agent to the colonel from an Asian country. [James] Scheider [Science Advisor to Bissell] testified that, while he did not now recall the name of the recipient, he did remember mailing from the Asian country, during the period in question, a handkerchief \"treated with some kind of material for the purpose of harassing that person who received it.\" ... During the course of this Committee's investigation, the CIA stated that the handkerchief was \"in fact never received (if, indeed, sent).\" It added that the colonel: \"Suffered a terminal illness before a firing squad in Baghdad (an event we had nothing to do with) not very long after our handkerchief proposal was considered.\"\n\nAlthough some sources depict this operation as an assassination attempt on Iraqi Prime Minister Abd al-Karim Qasim, other sources note that this interpretation is inaccurate or unsupported by evidence, as the notion that the CIA sought the target's assassination is refuted by the plain meaning of the text itself. In addition, it is unlikely that Qasim was the intended recipient of the handkerchief, as CIA officials would likely have remembered an attack on the Iraqi head of state. While Qasim was not a colonel but a brigadier general and did not openly promote Soviet interests in Iraq, the pro-Soviet head of Iraq's \"People's Court,\" Colonel Fahdil Abbas al-Mahdawi, fits the above description perfectly. Qasim effectively banned the ICP in January 1960, but Mahdawi remained a crucial conduit between Qasim's government and several communist-front groups—including the \"Peace Partisans,\" which was allowed to operate in public despite being formally outlawed in May 1961—and was known for his outspoken praise for Fidel Castro as well as his trips throughout the Soviet Union, the Eastern Bloc, and China. In 1991, former high-ranking U.S. diplomat Hermann Eilts told journalist Elaine Sciolino that Mahdawi had been the target.\n\nMahdawi and some of his family members \"were\" stricken with a serious case of what Mahdawi dubbed \"influenza\" in 1962, but it is unknown whether this ailment was related to the CIA's plan to poison him; Nathan J. Citino observes that \"the timing of the illness does not correspond exactly to that of the 'incapacitating' operation as described in the cited testimony.\"\n\nAn Inspector General report of investigation of allegations that the Agency was instrumental in bringing about the\nassassination of Rafael Trujillo, dictator of the Dominican Republic. Trujillo was effective head of government at the time of his assassination in 1961.\n\nConditions leading to a desire, by Dominicans, appeared to begin Johnny Abbes, took control the Intelligence Military Service (the secret police), and the country developed more internal violence and increasingly isolated from other nations. This isolation compounded Trujillo's fears, prompting him to worsen his foreign interventionism.\n\nTo be sure, Trujillo did have cause to resent the leaders of some nations, such as Cuba's Fidel Castro, who assisted a small, abortive invasion attempt by dissident Dominicans in 1959. Trujillo, however, expressed greater concern over Venezuela's president Rómulo Betancourt (1959–64). An established and outspoken opponent of Trujillo, Betancourt had been associated with some individual Dominicans who had plotted against the dictator. Trujillo developed an obsessive personal hatred towards Betancourt and supported numerous plots of Venezuelan exiles to overthrow him. This pattern of intervention led the Venezuelan government to take its case against Trujillo to the Organization of American States (OAS).\n\nThis development infuriated Trujillo, who ordered his foreign agents to plant a bomb inside Betancourt's car. The assassination attempt, carried out on 24 June 1960, injured but did not kill the Venezuelan president.The firestorm caused from the incident inflamed world opinion against Trujillo. The members of the OAS, expressing this outrage, voted unanimously to sever diplomatic relations and to impose strong economic sanctions on the Dominican Republic.\n\nFinally on the night of the 30 May 1961, Rafael Trujillo was shot to death on San Cristobal Avenue, Santo Domingo. He was the victim of an ambush plotted by a number of Dominicans. According to American reporter Bernard Diederich, the United States Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) had supplied some of the guns used to kill the president.\n\nIn a report to the Deputy Attorney General of the United States, CIA officials described the agency as having \"no active part\" in the assassination and only a \"faint connection\" with the groups that planned the killing. but the internal CIA investigation, by its Inspector General, \"disclosed quite extensive Agency involvement with the plotters.\"\n\nAccording to an 86-page portion of the Rockefeller Commission investigating the CIA's domestic activities that was removed at the behest of the Ford administration and did not become public until 2016:\n\n[Richard] Bissell [Deputy Director of Plans for the CIA] also testified that there was discussion within the Agency of the possibility of an attempt on the life of President Achmed Sukarno of Indonesia which \"progressed as far as the identification of an asset who it was felt might be recruited for this purpose. The plan was never reached, was never perfected to the point where it seemed feasible.\" He said the Agency had \"absolutely nothing\" to do with the death of Sukarno. ... He stated that no assassination plans would have been undertaken without authorization outside the Agency, and that no such authorization was undertaken for plans against either Lumumba or Sukarno. ... Since no evidence was found to bring the Sukarno and Lumumba matters within the scope of the Commission's investigative authority, no further investigation in these two areas was undertaken.\nIn 1984, a CIA manual for training the Nicaraguan Contras in psychological operations and unconventional warfare, entitled \"Psychological Operations in Guerrilla War\", became public. The manual recommended \"selective use of violence for propagandistic effects\" and to \"neutralize\" (i.e., kill) government officials. Nicaraguan Contras were taught to lead:\n\nThe manual also recommended:\n\nThe CIA claimed that the purpose of the manual was to \"moderate\" activities already being done by the Contras.\n\nIn May 2018, The European Court of Human Rights ruled that the countries of Romania and Lithuania were involved in torture activities perpetrated by the United States Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). The two countries were found to have run \"black site\" torture rooms and detention facilities therefore committing grave human rights abuses. In Romania, the secret facility was located at Northern Bucharest. In Lithuania, the black site was a guesthouse in the capital city of Vilnius which operated as early as 2002. In December 2014, the US Senate Select Committee on Intelligence filed a report which included torture details involving Saudi Arabian nationals Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri suspected of masterminding the bombing of the US navy guided-missile destroyer USS \"Cole\" in Yemen and Abu Zubaydah, an alleged Al Qaeda terrorist. The European tribunal said the \"two high-value prisoners\" were \"subjected to maltreatment and arbitrary incarceration at the CIA black site. Hence, the Lithuania and Romanian governments violated the Eastern Convention of Human Rights' ban on torture. Authorities in Lithuania also permitted the transport of Zubaydah to a secret prison in Afghanistan for additional abuse. In a separate decision, the European court learned Romania was knowledgeable of Nashiri's torture by the CIA in its own country.\n\n"}
{"id": "49031710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49031710", "title": "International Drug Policy Consortium", "text": "International Drug Policy Consortium\n\nThe International Drug Policy Consortium (IDPC) is a global network of over 170 NGOs that promote objective and open debate on drug policy at national, regional and international level. IDPC supports evidence-based policies that are effective at reducing drug-related harm. The IDPC secretariat has offices in London and Bangkok, with staff and consultants around the world.\n\nIDPC’s vision is that national and international drug policies are grounded in the principles of human rights and human security, social inclusion, public health, development and civil society engagement.\n\nIts advocacy positions are based on five core policy principles. These principles are that drug policies should:\n\n\nIDPC was set up in 2006 following a meeting of NGOs, which identified the need for a global advocacy and communication structure in the area of drug policy. Since then, IDPC has welcomed over 170 members, which include NGOs, academic institutions, think tanks, networks and community organisations engaged in drug policy advocacy – located in every region of the world. IDPC also places a very important emphasis on promoting the voice of most affected groups, including people who use drugs and people engaged in the cultivation of crops destined to the illicit drug market – some of the key NGOs representing these populations are members of the network.\n\nIDPC is now widely recognised as the global network of expert NGOs on drug policy. Every decision and advocacy position of IDPC is taken in full consultation with the membership, and the work plan is designed and implemented in close partnership with the member organisations.\n\nIn turn, IDPC offers NGOs a platform to share experience and best practice in the field of drug policy, and facilitates the engagement of the network in policy making processes at national, regional and international level – via the provision of advocacy tools, the sharing of key information on how to engage, the organisation of capacity building workshops, and the facilitation of meetings between national governments with local NGOs.\n\nIDPC intervenes at two levels in the decision making process: It aims to facilitate networking and collaboration between civil society stakeholders and empower civil society members to better engage with and influence policy-making processes. In parallel, the IDPC Secretariat also intervenes directly in policy making processes by strategically providing analysis and expertise to governments, regional bodies and UN agencies to promote effective and more humane drug policy options on behalf of the network.\n\nIDPC’s work encompasses: \n\nSupport. Don’t Punish is a global advocacy campaign calling for better drug policies that prioritise public health and human rights. It encourages grass-root participation in campaigning for better drug policy which culminates in the Support. Don’t Punish Day of Action on 26 June each year. This is a worldwide display which, in 2016, consisted of giant video projections, street art, rallies, concerts, petitions, sports events and film screenings with participants from 130 cities from 69 countries.\n\nThe Support. Don't Punish campaign aligns with the following key messages:\n\n"}
{"id": "1650935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1650935", "title": "Juvenile Liaison", "text": "Juvenile Liaison\n\nJuvenile Liaison 1 (1975) and Juvenile Liaison 2 (1990) are documentary films by Nick Broomfield about a juvenile liaison project in Blackburn, Lancashire. The first film examines a series of children and their run-ins with the law, over minor wrongdoings such as apple theft. The second film revisits some of the characters from the first, in some sort of attempt to measure the success of the scheme.\n\nAfter its production, the first film was banned by the BFI for many years; Juvenile Liaison 1 revolved mainly around the activities of Sergeant Ray, whose preventative measures when dealing with young trouble makers fell mainly in the strong-arm category of approach. In Juvenile Liaison 2 Ray is contacted by phone but declines to make an appearance, hinting at misrepresentation and possible damage to his career.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57829", "title": "Keystroke logging", "text": "Keystroke logging\n\nKeystroke logging, often referred to as keylogging or keyboard capturing, is the action of recording (logging) the keys struck on a keyboard, typically covertly, so that the person using the keyboard is unaware that their actions are being monitored. Data can then be retrieved by the person operating the logging program. A keylogger can be either software or hardware.\n\nWhile the programs themselves are legal, with many of them being designed to allow employers to oversee the use of their computers, keyloggers are most often used for the purpose of stealing passwords and other confidential information.\n\nKeylogging can also be used to study human–computer interaction. Numerous keylogging methods exist: they range from hardware and software-based approaches to acoustic analysis.\n\nSoftware-based keyloggers are computer programs designed to work on the target computer's software. Keyloggers are used in IT organizations to troubleshoot technical problems with computers and business networks. Families and business people use keyloggers legally to monitor network usage without their users' direct knowledge. Even Microsoft publicly admitted that Windows 10 operation system has a built-in keylogger in its final version “to improve typing and writing services”. However, malicious individuals can use keyloggers on public computers to steal passwords or credit card information. Most keyloggers are not stopped by HTTPS encryption because that only protects data in transit between computers, thus the threat being from the user's computer.\n\nFrom a technical perspective there are several categories:\n\n\nKeystroke logging is now an established research method for the study of writing processes. Different programs have been developed to collect online process data of writing activities, including Inputlog, Scriptlog, and Translog.\n\nKeystroke logging is legitimately used as a suitable research instrument in a number of writing contexts. These include studies on cognitive writing processes, which include\nKeystroke logging can be used to research writing, specifically. It can also be integrated in educational domains for second language learning, programming skills, and typing skills.\n\nSoftware keyloggers may be augmented with features that capture user information without relying on keyboard key presses as the sole input. Some of these features include:\n\n\nHardware-based keyloggers do not depend upon any software being installed as they exist at a hardware level in a computer system.\n\n\nIn the mid 1970s, the Soviet Union developed and deployed a hardware keylogger targeting typewriters. Termed the \"selectric bug\", it measured the movements of the print head of IBM Selectric typewriters via subtle influences on the regional magnetic field caused by the rotation and movements of the print head. An early keylogger was written by Perry Kivolowitz and posted to the Usenet news group net.unix-wizards,net.sources on November 17, 1983. The posting seems to be a motivating factor in restricting access to /dev/kmem on Unix systems. The user-mode program operated by locating and dumping character lists (clists) as they were assembled in the Unix kernel.\n\nIn the 1970s, spies installed keystroke loggers in the US Embassy and Consulate buildings in Moscow and Leningrad.\nThey installed the bugs in Selectric II and Selectric III electric typewriters.\n\nSoviet embassies used manual typewriters, rather than electric typewriters, for classified information—apparently because they are immune to such bugs.\nAs of 2013, Russian special services still use typewriters.\n\nWriting simple software applications for keylogging can be trivial, and like any nefarious computer program, can be distributed as a trojan horse or as part of a virus. What is not trivial for an attacker, however, is installing a covert keystroke logger without getting caught and downloading data that has been logged without being traced. An attacker that manually connects to a host machine to download logged keystrokes risks being traced. A trojan that sends keylogged data to a fixed e-mail address or IP address risks exposing the attacker.\n\nResearchers devised several methods for solving this problem. They presented a deniable password snatching attack in which the keystroke logging trojan is installed using a virus or worm.\n\nIn 2000, the FBI used FlashCrest iSpy to obtain the PGP passphrase of Nicodemo Scarfo, Jr., son of mob boss Nicodemo Scarfo.\nAlso in 2000, the FBI lured two suspected Russian cyber criminals to the US in an elaborate ruse, and captured their usernames and passwords with a keylogger that was covertly installed on a machine that they used to access their computers in Russia. The FBI then used these credentials to hack into the suspects' computers in Russia in order to obtain evidence to prosecute them.\n\nThe effectiveness of countermeasures varies, because keyloggers use a variety of techniques to capture data and the countermeasure needs to be effective against the particular data capture technique. In the case of Windows 10 keylogging from Microsoft it is enough to change some privacy settings on your computer. For example, an on-screen keyboard will be effective against hardware keyloggers, transparency will defeat some—but not all—screenloggers and an anti-spyware application that can only disable hook-based keyloggers will be ineffective against kernel-based keyloggers.\n\nAlso, keylogger program authors may be able to update the code to adapt to countermeasures that may have proven to be effective against them.\n\nAn anti-keylogger is a piece of software specifically designed to detect keyloggers on a computer, typically comparing all files in the computer against a database of keyloggers looking for similarities which might signal the presence of a hidden keylogger. As anti-keyloggers have been designed specifically to detect keyloggers, they have the potential to be more effective than conventional antivirus software; some antivirus software do not consider a keylogger to be a virus, as under some circumstances a keylogger can be considered a legitimate piece of software.\n\nRebooting the computer using a Live CD or write-protected Live USB is a possible countermeasure against software keyloggers if the CD is clean of malware and the operating system contained on it is secured and fully patched so that it cannot be infected as soon as it is started. Booting a different operating system does not impact the use of a hardware or BIOS based keylogger.\n\nMany anti-spyware applications are able to detect some software based keyloggers and quarantine, disable or cleanse them. However, because many keylogging programs are legitimate pieces of software under some circumstances, anti spyware often neglects to label keylogging programs as spyware or a virus. These applications are able to detect software-based keyloggers based on patterns in executable code, heuristics and keylogger behaviours (such as the use of hooks and certain APIs).\n\nNo software-based anti-spyware application can be 100% effective against all keyloggers.\nAlso, software-based anti-spyware cannot defeat non-software keyloggers (for example, hardware keyloggers attached to keyboards will always receive keystrokes before any software-based anti-spyware application).\n\nHowever, the particular technique that the anti-spyware application uses will influence its potential effectiveness against software keyloggers. As a general rule, anti-spyware applications with higher privileges will defeat keyloggers with lower privileges. For example, a hook-based anti-spyware application cannot defeat a kernel-based keylogger (as the keylogger will receive the keystroke messages before the anti-spyware application), but it could potentially defeat hook- and API-based keyloggers.\n\nNetwork monitors (also known as reverse-firewalls) can be used to alert the user whenever an application attempts to make a network connection. This gives the user the chance to prevent the keylogger from \"phoning home\" with his or her typed information.\n\nAutomatic form-filling programs may prevent keylogging by removing the requirement for a user to type personal details and passwords using the keyboard. Form fillers are primarily designed for web browsers to fill in checkout pages and log users into their accounts. Once the user's account and credit card information has been entered into the program, it will be automatically entered into forms without ever using the keyboard or clipboard, thereby reducing the possibility that private data is being recorded. However someone with physical access to the machine may still be able to install software that is able to intercept this information elsewhere in the operating system or while in transit on the network. (Transport Layer Security (TLS) reduces the risk that data in transit may be intercepted by network sniffers and proxy tools.)\n\nUsing one-time passwords may be keylogger-safe, as each password is invalidated as soon as it is used. This solution may be useful for someone using a public computer. However, an attacker who has remote control over such a computer can simply wait for the victim to enter his/her credentials before performing unauthorised transactions on their behalf while their session is active.\n\nUse of smart cards or other security tokens may improve security against replay attacks in the face of a successful keylogging attack, as accessing protected information would require both the (hardware) security token \"as well as\" the appropriate password/passphrase. Knowing the keystrokes, mouse actions, display, clipboard etc. used on one computer will not subsequently help an attacker gain access to the protected resource. Some security tokens work as a type of hardware-assisted one-time password system, and others implement a cryptographic challenge-response authentication, which can improve security in a manner conceptually similar to one time passwords. Smartcard readers and their associated keypads for PIN entry may be vulnerable to keystroke logging through a so-called supply chain attack where an attacker substitutes the card reader/PIN entry hardware for one which records the user's PIN.\n\nMost on-screen keyboards (such as the on-screen keyboard that comes with Windows XP) send normal keyboard event messages to the external target program to type text. Software key loggers can log these typed characters sent from one program to another.\nAdditionally, keylogging software can take screenshots of what is displayed on the screen (periodically, and/or upon each mouse click), which means that although certainly a useful security measure, an on-screen keyboard will not protect from all keyloggers.\n\nKeystroke interference software is also available.\nThese programs attempt to trick keyloggers by introducing random keystrokes, although this simply results in the keylogger recording more information than it needs to. An attacker has the task of extracting the keystrokes of interest—the security of this mechanism, specifically how well it stands up to cryptanalysis, is unclear.\n\nSimilar to on-screen keyboards, speech-to-text conversion software can also be used against keyloggers, since there are no typing or mouse movements involved. The weakest point of using voice-recognition software may be how the software sends the recognized text to target software after the recognition took place.\n\nAlso, many PDAs and lately tablet PCs can already convert pen (also called stylus) movements on their touchscreens to computer understandable text successfully. Mouse gestures use this principle by using mouse movements instead of a stylus. Mouse gesture programs convert these strokes to user-definable actions, such as typing text. Similarly, graphics tablets and light pens can be used to input these gestures, however these are less common everyday.\n\nThe same potential weakness of speech recognition applies to this technique as well.\n\nWith the help of many programs, a seemingly meaningless text can be expanded to a meaningful text and most of the time context-sensitively, e.g. \"en.wikipedia.org\" can be expanded when a web browser window has the focus. The biggest weakness of this technique is that these programs send their keystrokes directly to the target program. However, this can be overcome by using the 'alternating' technique described below, i.e. sending mouse clicks to non-responsive areas of the target program, sending meaningless keys, sending another mouse click to target area (e.g. password field) and switching back-and-forth.\n\nAlternating between typing the login credentials and typing characters somewhere else in the focus window can cause a keylogger to record more information than they need to, although this could easily be filtered out by an attacker. Similarly, a user can move their cursor using the mouse during typing, causing the logged keystrokes to be in the wrong order e.g., by typing a password beginning with the last letter and then using the mouse to move the cursor for each subsequent letter. Lastly, someone can also use context menus to remove, cut, copy, and paste parts of the typed text without using the keyboard. An attacker who is able to capture only parts of a password will have a larger key space to attack if he chose to execute a brute-force attack.\n\nAnother very similar technique uses the fact that any selected text portion is replaced by the next key typed. e.g., if the password is \"secret\", one could type \"s\", then some dummy keys \"asdfsd\". Then, these dummies could be selected with the mouse, and the next character from the password \"e\" is typed, which replaces the dummies \"asdfsd\".\n\nThese techniques assume incorrectly that keystroke logging software cannot directly monitor the clipboard, the selected text in a form, or take a screenshot every time a keystroke or mouse click occurs. They may however be effective against some hardware keyloggers.\n\n\nKey-logger Basics \n"}
{"id": "1643219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1643219", "title": "Kiev Bank Union", "text": "Kiev Bank Union\n\nThe Kiev Bank Union () is a banking association created in 1994 by twenty commercial banks operating in the city of Kiev, Ukraine, for the purpose of cooperation between Kiev's financial institutions, and to manage collective interaction with authorities. The Kiev Bank Union works with Committees of the Verkhovna Rada (the Ukrainian parliament); the National Bank of Ukraine (Ukraine's central bank); the Ukrainian Ministry of Justice, and the tax administration of Ukraine to discuss improvement of banking legislation and other relevant matters.\n\nIn 2005, the Kiev Bank Union represented about 70 Ukrainian and overseas financial credit establishments.\n\nProminent city banker and politician Leonid Chernovetsky is the founder and leader of the union.\n\n"}
{"id": "54483119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54483119", "title": "Laura E. Little", "text": "Laura E. Little\n\nLaura E. Little is an American legal scholar and author, specializing in conflict of laws, federal courts, humor and the law, the law of freedom of expression, and constitutional law. She is the James G. Schmidt Professor of Law at Temple University School of Law. \n\nProfessor Little graduated from the University of Pennsylvania, \"magna cum laude\", where she majored in economics. She went on to Temple University School of Law, receiving her J.D., \"summa cum laude\". During her time in law school, Little served as Editor-in-Chief of Temple Law Review. After graduation, Little served as a law clerk for United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit Judge James Hunter III and then clerked for Supreme Court of the United States Chief Justice William Rehnquist. Little later joined the law firm of Dechert Price & Rhoades and worked in general commercial litigation. In 1989, Little joined Kohn, Savett, Klein & Graf, P.C. where she represented the print media in Philadelphia in First Amendment matters.\n\nIn 1990, Little joined the full-time faculty at Temple University's Beasley School of Law. As a faculty member, her law teaching specializes in conflict of laws, federal courts, First Amendment, and constitutional law. Little has received prestigious awards during her time in academia, including the Temple University \"Great Teacher\" Award. \n\nLittle has served as an appellate advocate and consultant on many matters related to the conflict of laws, federal jurisdiction, and the U.S. Constitution. She was appointed by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit to argue and brief the case of \"Trinsey v. Pennsylvania\", which challenged senatorial succession processes under the U.S. Constitution's 17 Amendment. \n\nLittle's work includes academic analysis of U.S. federal judicial selection, which was quoted, cited, and relied on extensively by the Supreme Court of India in its decision striking down India's system for appointing judges. \n\nLittle is also the sole author of a leading casebook on conflict of laws, and a well-regarded bar lecturer, preparing students for the conflict of laws section of the Pennsylvania portion of the bar. The American Law Institute appointed Little to serve as the Associate Reporter of the Restatement Third of Conflict of Laws in 2014.\n\nAn internationally-renowned expert on the intersection of humor and the law, Little has lectured around the world on this subject and is the author of many articles and book chapters. She received a national award for her work, \"Regulating Funny: Humor and the Law\" published by \"Cornell Law Review\", which analyzes how law prefers certain types of humor in the areas of trademark, contract, and employment discrimination. Her book, \"Guilty Pleasures: Comedy and Law in America,\" was published by Oxford University Press in 2018.\n\n\"If all law books were this funny and entertaining, I might have listened to my parents when they were pressuring me to go to law school.\" - Andy Borowitz, Columnist for The New Yorker Magazine and comedian\n\n\"In \"Conflict of Laws,\" award-winning teacher Laura Little offers a progressive and innovative take on a subject that has few right answers and plenty of room for debate. Contemporary and fresh, Little’s thematic approach and comparative perspective connect key issues and concepts to legal practice. Modern cases and realistic hypothetical problems offer a balance of theory and practice.\"\n\n\"Widely-respected federal courts scholar Laura Little has authored a much-needed, approachable, and practical study guide to what is considered a challenging and abstract subject. Federal Courts, E & E, 3E, grounds the material for students by providing brief textual introductions to doctrines, as well as examples and analytical answers.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3923230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3923230", "title": "Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design", "text": "Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design\n\nLeadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) is one of the most popular green building certification programs used worldwide. Developed by the non-profit U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) it includes a set of rating systems for the design, construction, operation, and maintenance of green buildings, homes, and neighborhoods that aims to help building owners and operators be environmentally responsible and use resources efficiently.\n\nDevelopment of LEED began in 1993, spearheaded by Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC) senior scientist Robert K. Watson. As founding chairman of the LEED Steering Committee, Watson led a broad-based consensus process until 2007, bringing together non-profit organizations, government agencies, architects, engineers, developers, builders, product manufacturers and other industry leaders. The LEED initiative was supported by a strong USGBC Board of Directors, chaired by Steven Winter from 1999 to 2003, and very active staff, including Nigel Howard. At that time, USGBC’s Senior Vice President of LEED, Scot Horst, became chair of the LEED Steering Committee before joining USGBC staff. Early LEED committee members also included USGBC co-founder Mike Italiano, architects Bill Reed and Sandy Mendler, builders Gerard Heiber and Myron Kibbe, and engineer Richard Bourne. As interest in LEED grew, in 1996, engineers Tom Paladino and Lynn Barker co-chaired the newly formed LEED technical committee.\n\nFrom 1994 to 2015, LEED grew from one standard for new construction to a comprehensive system of interrelated standards covering aspects from the design and construction to the maintenance and operation of buildings. LEED also has grown from six volunteers on one committee to 119,924 staff, volunteers and professionals. LEED standards have been applied to approximately 83,452 registered and certified LEED projects worldwide, covering around 13.8 billion square feet (1.28 billion square meters).\n\nMany U.S. federal agencies and states and local governments require or reward LEED certification. However, four states (Alabama, Georgia, Maine, and Mississippi) have effectively banned the use of LEED in new public buildings, preferring other industry standards that the USGBC considers too lax.\n\nUnlike model building codes, such as the International Building Code, only members of the USGBC and specific \"in-house\" committees may add to, subtract from, or edit the standard, subject to an internal review process. Proposals to modify the LEED standards are offered and publicly reviewed by USGBC's member organizations, which number almost 12,216.\n\nUSGBC's Green Business Certification Inc. (GBCI) offers various accreditation to people who demonstrate knowledge of the LEED rating system, including LEED Accredited Professional (LEED AP), LEED Green Associate, and since 2011, LEED Fellows, the highest designation for LEED professionals. GBCI also certifies projects pursuing LEED.\n\nLEED has evolved since 1998 to more accurately represent and incorporate emerging green building technologies. The pilot version, LEED New Construction (NC) v1.0, led to LEED NCv2.0, LEED NCv2.2 in 2005, and LEED 2009 (previously named LEED v3) in 2009. LEED v4 was introduced in November, 2013. Until October 31, 2016, new projects could choose between LEED 2009 and LEED v4. New projects registering after October 31, 2016 have been required to use LEED v4.\n\nLEED 2009 encompasses ten rating systems for the design, construction and operation of buildings, homes and neighborhoods. Five overarching categories correspond to the specialties available under the LEED professional program. That suite currently consists of:\n\nGreen Building Design & Construction\n\nGreen Interior Design & Construction\n\nGreen Building Operations & Maintenance\n\nGreen Neighborhood Development\n\nGreen Home Design and Construction\n\nLEED also forms the basis for other sustainability rating systems such as the Environmental Protection Agency's Labs21.\n\nTo make it easier to follow LEED requirements, in 2009 USGBC helped BuildingGreen develop LEEDuser, a guide to the LEED certification process and applying for LEED credits written by professionals in the field.\n\nAfter four years of development, aligning credit across all LEED rating systems and weighing credits based on environmental priority, USGBC launched LEED v3, which consists of a new continuous development process, a new version of LEED Online, a revised third-party certification program and a new suite of rating systems known as LEED 2009.\n\nUnder LEED 2009, there are 100 possible base points distributed across six credit categories: \"Sustainable Sites\", \"Water Efficiency\", \"Energy and Atmosphere\", \"Materials and Resources\", \"Indoor Environmental Quality\", and \"Innovation in Design\". Up to 10 additional points may be earned: four additional points may be received for Regional Priority Credits, and six additional points for Innovation in Design (which includes exemplary performance credits for existing credit categories).\n\nBuildings can qualify for four levels of certification:\n\nThe LEED 2009 performance credit system aims to allocate points \"based on the potential environmental impacts and human benefits of each credit.\" These are weighed using the environmental impact categories of the United States Environmental Protection Agency's Tools for the Reduction and Assessment of Chemical and Other Environmental Impacts (TRACI). and the environmental-impact weighting scheme developed by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST).\n\nTo participate in LEED 2009, a building must comply with environmental laws and regulations, occupancy scenarios, building permanence and pre-rating completion, site boundaries and area-to-site ratios. Its owner must share data on the building's energy and water use for five years after occupancy (for new construction) or date of certification (for existing buildings).\n\nEach of the performance categories also have mandatory measures in each category, which receive no points.\n\nThe weighting process has three steps:\n\nThis system results in a weighted average for each rating scheme based upon actual impacts and the relative importance of those impacts to human health and environmental quality.\n\nThe LEED council also appears to have assigned credit and measure weighting based upon the market implications of point allocation.\n\nFrom 2010, buildings can use carbon offsets to achieve Green Power Credits for LEED-NC (New Construction Certification) :\n\nAdditional performance categories in the LEED for Homes rating system are Locations and Linkages (recognizing the importance of transportation access, open space, and physical activity outdoors) and Awareness and Education (recognizing the need for buildings and settlements to educate occupants).\n\nFor LEED BD+C v4 credit, the IEQ category addresses thermal, visual, and acoustic comfort as well as indoor air quality. The thermal comfort credit applies one point to the following certification types: New Construction, Schools, Retail, Data Centers, Warehouses and Distribution Centers, Hospitality, and Healthcare. The intent of this credit is to \"promote occupants' productivity, comfort, and well-being by providing thermal comfort.\" Occupants' satisfaction and performance is directly affected by a building's thermal conditions as shown by laboratory and field research. Energy reduction goals can be supported while improving thermal satisfaction. For example, research has shown providing occupants control over the thermostat or operable window allows for comfort across a wider range of temperatures.\n\nIn 2003, the Canada Green Building Council received permission to create LEED Canada-NC v1.0, which was based upon LEED-NC 2.0. Many buildings in Canada are LEED certified in part due to their Rainwater harvesting practices.\n\nLEED certification is granted by the Green Building Certification Institute (GBCI), which handles the third-party verification of a project's compliance with the LEED requirements.\n\nThe certification process for design teams is made up of two consecutive applications: one including design credits, and one including construction credits. All of the LEED credits in each rating system are assigned to either the design application or the construction application. The design credits include those that are the purview of the architect and the engineer, and are documented in the official construction drawings. The construction credits include those that are predominantly under the purview of the contractor, and are documented during the construction and commissioning of the building.\n\nA fee is required to register the building, and to submit the design and construction applications. Total fees are assessed based on building area. Fees range from a minimum of $2,900 to over $1 million for a large project. \"Soft\" costs, i.e., added costs to the building project to qualify for LEED certification, range from 1% to 6% of the total project cost. The average cost increase was about 2%, or an extra $3–$5 per square foot.\n\nThe application review and certification process is handled on LEED Online, USGBC's web-based service that employs a series of active PDF forms to allow project teams to fill out credit forms and upload supporting documentation online. The GBCI also utilizes LEED Online to conduct their reviews.\n\nDesign teams have the option of achieving points under the Optimize Energy Performance credit by building an energy model. This energy model must follow the modeling methodologies outlined in Appendix G of the ASHRAE 90.1 building energy standard. The guidelines in Appendix G require that the team make two energy models: one representing the building as designed, and a second “baseline” building. The baseline building must be modeled in the same location, and have the same geometry and occupancy as the design building. Depending on location (climate) and building size, the standard provides requirements for HVAC system type, and wall and window definitions. The goal of this methodology is to provide a baseline building to use as a reference point to compare the design building against. It is a way to standardize the baseline, while putting weight on important factors that heavily influence building energy consumption (e.g., location, geometry, and occupancy patterns). The number of points achieved in this credit is correlated with the percent predicted energy cost savings demonstrated by the difference between the design and baseline energy models.\n\nThis method of energy modeling has been criticized for inaccurately predicting actual energy usage of LEED-certified buildings. The USGBC admits that \"current information indicates that most buildings do not perform as well as design metrics indicate. As a result, building owners might not obtain the benefits promised.\"\n\nToday, increasing demand towards environmental safety forces LEED certification to play major role. The process of the LEED for Homes Rating System, available in the United States, Canada and Sweden, is significantly different from the LEED NC rating system. LEED for Homes projects are low rise residential and are required to work with either an American Provider Organization or a Canadian Provider Organization and a Green Rater. A Provider Organization helps the project through the process while overseeing the Green Raters. Green Raters are individuals that conduct the two mandatory LEED for Homes site inspections; the Thermal Bypass Inspection and the Final Inspection. Although LEED for Homes is typically viewed by the construction industry as a simpler rating system, especially when compared to LEED NC, LEED NC does not require an on-site inspection. The Provider and the Green Rater do not certify the project, but rather assist in the certification process.\n\nResearch papers provide most of what is known about the performance and effectiveness of LEED in two credit category areas – energy and indoor environment quality. In one study of 953 NYC office buildings, 21 LEED certified buildings collectively showed no energy savings compared with non-LEED buildings, although LEED Gold buildings \"outperformed other NYC office buildings by 20%\". IEQ-related studies provide two contrasting results - the first used occupant survey results in 65 LEED buildings and 79 non-LEED buildings and it concluded that occupants of LEED certified buildings have equal satisfaction with the building overall and with the workspace than occupants of non-LEED rated buildings and the second used occupant interviews and physical site measurements at 12 LEED buildings to report superior indoor environment performance compared with similar 12 conventional buildings (non-LEED). Buildings certified under LEED do not have to prove energy or water efficiency in practice to receive LEED certification points, but instead LEED uses modeling software to predict future energy use based on intended use. This has led to criticism of LEED’s ability to accurately determine the efficiency of buildings. The USGBC itself says that, “Buildings have a poor track record for performing as predicted during design.\n\nIn 2009 Newsham et al. analyzed a database of 100 LEED certified (v3 or earlier version) buildings. In this study, each building was paired with a conventional \"twin\" building within the Commercial Building Energy Consumption Survey (CBECS) database according to building type and occupancy. On average, LEED buildings consumed 18 to 39% less energy per floor area than their conventional \"twin\" buildings, although 28 to 35% of LEED-certified buildings used more energy than their \"twin.” The paper found no correlation between the number of energy points achieved or LEED certification level and measured building performance.\n\nIn 2009 Scofield published an article in response to Newsham et al., analyzing the same database of LEED buildings and arriving at different conclusions. In his analysis, Scofield criticized that Newsham et al.'s study only considered the energy per floor area instead of a total energy consumption. Scofield considered source energy (accounting for energy losses during generation and transmission) as well as site energy, and used area-weighted energy use intensities, or EUIs (energy per unit area per year), when comparing LEED and non-LEED buildings to account for the fact that larger buildings tend to have larger EUIs. Scofield concluded that, collectively, the LEED-certified buildings showed no significant source energy consumption savings or greenhouse gas emission reductions when compared to non-LEED buildings, although they did consume 10-17% less site energy.\n\nScofield in 2013 analyzed 21 LEED-certified buildings in New York City. He found that buildings that had achieved LEED Gold used, on average, 20% less source energy than did conventional buildings. Buildings with LEED Silver or LEED Certified ratings actually used 11 to 15% more source energy, on average, than did their conventional counterparts.\n\nIn 2014, Fuertes and Schiavon developed the first study that analyzes plug loads using LEED documented data from certified projects. The study compared plug load assumptions made by 92 energy modeling practitioners against ASHRAE and Title 24 requirements, as well as the evaluation of the plug loads calculation methodology used by 660 LEED-CI and 429 LEED-NC certified projects. In general, energy modelers considered the energy consumption of plug loads of equipment that are constantly running (such as refrigerators) as well as monitors and computers predictable. Overall the results suggested a disconnection between energy modelers assumptions and the actual performance of buildings. In conclusion, the study suggests LEED or ASHRAE to develop guidelines for plug loads calculations.\n\nEnergy model might be a source of error during LEED design phase. Stoppel and Leite evaluated the predicted and actual energy consumption of two twin buildings using the energy model during the LEED design phase and the utility meter data after one year of occupancy. The study’s results suggests that mechanical systems turnover and occupancy assumptions significantly differing from predicted to actual values.\n\nMost of the current available energy consumption analysis of LEED buildings focuses on LEED v3 (2009) or even earlier versions certified buildings instead of the newest LEED v4 (2014) certified buildings. According to Newsham et al., these analyses should be considered as preliminary and should be repeated with longer data history and larger sample buildings, including new LEED v4 certified buildings. Newsham et al. also pointed out that further work needs to be done to define green building rating schemes to ensure more consistent and substantial energy consumption reduction success at the individual building level in long term.\n\nThe Center for Disease Control defines Indoor Environmental Quality (IEQ) as \"the quality of a building’s environment in relation to the health and wellbeing of those who occupy space within it.\" The USGBC includes the following considerations for attaining IEQ credits: indoor air quality, the level of volatile organic compounds, lighting, thermal comfort, and daylighting and views. In consideration of a building's indoor environmental quality, published studies have also included factors such as: acoustics, building cleanliness and maintenance, colors and textures, workstation size, ceiling height, window access and shading, surface finishes, and furniture adjustability and comfort.\n\nIn 2013, a paper published by S. Schiavon and S. Altomonte studied LEED verses non-LEED buildings in relation to occupant IEQ satisfaction. Using occupant surveys from the Center for the Built Environment at Berkeley database, 65 LEED-certified and 79 non-LEED buildings were studied to provide an analysis of 15 IEQ-related factors in the overall building and specific workspaces. These factors include the ease of interaction, building cleanliness, the comfort of furnishing, the amount of light, building maintenance, colors and textures, workplace cleanliness, the amount of space, furniture adjustability, visual comfort, air quality, visual privacy, noise, temperature, and sound privacy. The results showed occupants tend to be slightly more satisfied in LEED buildings for the air quality and slightly more dissatisfied with the amount of light. The overall finding was that there was no significant influence of LEED certification on occupant satisfaction in consideration of the overall building and workspace ratings. The \"Limitations and Further Studies\" section states that the data may not be representative of the entire building stock and a randomized approach was not used in the data assessment.\n\nBased on similar dataset (21,477 occupants), in 2013, Schiavon and Altomonte, found that occupants have equivalent satisfaction levels in LEED and non-LEED buildings when evaluated independently from the following nine factors: (1) office type, (2) spatial layout, (3) distance from windows, (4) building size, (5) gender, (6) age, (7) type of work, (8) time at workspace, and (9) weekly working hours. LEED certified buildings may provide higher satisfaction in open spaces than in enclosed offices, in smaller buildings than in larger buildings, and to occupants having spent less than one year in their workspaces rather than to those who have used their workspace longer. The study also points out that the positive value of LEED certification from the aspect of occupant satisfaction may tend to decrease with time.\n\nIn 2015, a study on indoor environmental quality and the potential health benefits of green certified buildings was developed by Allen et al. showing that green buildings provide better indoor environmental quality with direct benefits to human health of occupants of those buildings in comparison to non-green buildings. One of the limitations of the study was the use of subjective health performance indicators since there is a lack of definition on such indicators by current studies.\n\nG. Newsham et al. published a detailed study on IEQ and LEED buildings in August 2013. Field studies and Post-Occupancy Evaluations (POE) were performed in 12 “green” and 12 “conventional” buildings across Canada and the northern United States. On-site, 974 workstations were measured for thermal conditions, air quality, acoustics, lighting, workstation size, ceiling height, window access and shading, and surface finishes. Responses were positive in the areas of environmental satisfaction, satisfaction with thermal conditions, satisfaction with view from the outside, aesthetic appearance, reduced disturbance from heating, ventilation and air-conditioning noise, workplace image, night-time sleep quality, mood, physical symptoms, and reduced number of airborne particulates. The results showed green buildings exhibited superior performance compared with similar conventional buildings.\n\nCurrent latest study published in 2017, by Altomonte, Schiavon, Kent and Brager, specifically investigated whether a green rating leads to higher occupant satisfaction with IEQ. Based on the analysis of a subset of the CBE Occupant IEQ including 11,243 responses from 93 LEED-certified office buildings, this study found that the achievement of a specific IEQ credit did not substantially increase the satisfaction with the corresponding IEQ factor. In addition, the rating level and version of the certification has no impact on workplace satisfaction. There are some possible explanations. Many intervening factors in the time between design and occupancy can alter the existence or performance of the strategies that LEED awarded. IEQ certification metrics also face the challenges from substantial differences that characterize the modern workplace in terms of spatial needs, task requirements, users’ characteristics, and disciplines of product design and marketing, etc. Survey participants may also misinterpret the satisfaction with an IEQ parameter, or bias with personal attitudes.\n\nThe daylight credit was updated in LEED v4 to include a simulation option for daylight analysis that uses Spatial Daylight Autonomy (SDA) and Annual Sunlight Exposure (ASE) metrics to evaluate daylight quality in LEED projects. SDA is a metric that measures the annual sufficiency of daylight levels in interior spaces and ASE describes the potential for visual discomfort by direct sunlight and glare. These metrics are approved by IES and described at the LM-83-12 standard. LEED recommend a minimum of 300 lux for at least 50% of total occupied hours of the year for 55% or more square meters (square feet) of the floor occupied area. The threshold recommended by LEED for ASE is that no more than 10% of regularly occupied floor area can be exposed to more than 1000 lux of direct sunlight for more than 250 hours per year. Additionally, LEED requires window shades to be closed when more than 2% of a space is subject to direct sunlight above 1000 lux. According to Reinhart the direct sunlight requirement is a very stringent approach that can disable good daylight design from achieving this credit. Reinhart propose the application of the direct sunlight criterion only in spaces that require stringent control of sunlight (e.g. desks, white boards and etc.).\n\nA 2003 analysis of the savings from green building found from a review of 60 LEED buildings that the buildings were, on average, 25-30% more energy efficient. However, it also attributed substantial benefits to the increased productivity from the better ventilation, temperature control, lighting control, and reduced indoor air pollution.\n\nAs of 2008, LEED (and similar Energy Star) buildings had mostly been evaluated by case studies. From a purely financial perspective, in 2008 several studies found that LEED for-rent office spaces generally charged higher rent and had higher occupancy rates. CoStar collects data on properties. The extra cost for the minimum benefit has been estimated at 3%, with an additional 2.5% for silver. More recent studies have confirmed these earlier findings in that certified buildings achieve significantly higher rents, sale prices and occupancy rates as well as lower capitalization rates potentially reflecting lower investment risk.\n\nLEED focuses on the design of the building and not on its actual energy consumption, and therefore it has suggested that LEED buildings should be tracked to discover whether the potential energy savings from the design are being used in practice.\n\nThe U.S. Green Building Council provides an online directory of U.S. LEED-certified projects.\n\nThe Canada Green Building Council provides an online directory of LEED Canada-certified projects.\n\nIn 2012 the USGBC launched GBIG, the Green Building Information Gateway, in an effort to connect green building efforts and projects from all over the world. It provides searchable access to a database of \"activities, buildings, places and collections\" of green building-related information from many sources and programs, as well as, specifically provides information about LEED projects.\n\nThe Green Building Certification Institute describes Professional Accreditation as follows: \"LEED Professional Credentials demonstrate current knowledge of green building technologies, best practices, and the rapidly evolving LEED Rating Systems. They show differentiation in a growing and competitive industry, and they allow for varied levels of specialization. A LEED Professional Credential provides employers, policymakers, and other stakeholders with assurances of an individual's level of competence and is the mark of the most qualified, educated, and influential green building professionals in the marketplace.\" Credentials include the LEED Green Associate and the various types of specialized LEED Accredited Professionals (AP).\n\nLEED certified buildings are intended to use resources more efficiently when compared to conventional buildings simply built to code. However, analysis of energy and water use data from New York City shows that LEED certification does not necessarily make a building more energy or water efficient.\n\nOften, when a LEED rating is pursued, the cost of initial design and construction rises. There may be a lack of abundant availability of manufactured building components that meet LEED specifications. Pursuing LEED certification for a project is an added cost in itself as well. This added cost comes in the form of USGBC correspondence, LEED design-aide consultants, and the hiring of the required Commissioning Authority (CxA)—all of which would not necessarily be included in an environmentally responsible project, unless it also sought a LEED rating.\n\nHowever, these higher initial costs can be effectively mitigated by the savings incurred over time due to the lower-than-industry-standard operational costs typical of a LEED certified building. This Life cycle costing is a method for assessing the total cost of ownership, taking into account all costs of acquiring, owning and operating, and the eventual disposal of a building. Additional economic payback may come in the form of employee productivity gains incurred as a result of working in a healthier environment. Studies suggest that an initial up-front investment of 2% extra yields over ten times that initial investment over the life cycle of the building.\n\nFurther, the USGBC has stated support for the Architecture 2030, an effort that has set a goal of using no fossil-fuel, greenhouse-gas-emitting energy to operate by 2030.\n\nIn the progression of sustainable design from simply meeting local buildings codes to USGBC LEED (Certified, Silver, Gold and Platinum) to the Architecture 2030 Challenge, the Living Building Challenge is currently the most stringent sustainable design protocol. The LBC sets 20 imperatives that compel building owners, designers, operators and tenants beyond current USGBC LEED rating levels.\n\nLEED is a design tool and not a performance measurement tool. It is also not yet climate-specific, although the newest version hopes to address this weakness partially. Because of this, designers may make materials or design choices that garner a LEED point, even though they may not be the most site- or climate-appropriate choice available. On top of this, LEED is also not energy-specific. Since it only measures the overall performances, builders are free to choose how to achieve points under various categories. A \"USA Today\" review showed that 7,100 certified commercial building projects targeted easy and cheap green points, such as creating healthy spaces and providing educational displays in the building. Few builders would really adopt renewable energy because the generators for those energy resources, such as solar photovoltaic, are costly. Builders game the rating system and use certain performances to compensate for the others, making energy conservation the weakest part in the overall evaluation.\n\nLEED is a measurement tool for green building in the United States and it is developed and continuously modified by workers in the green building industry, especially in the ten largest metro areas in the U.S.; however, LEED certified buildings have been slower to penetrate small and mid-major markets. Also, some criticism suggests that the LEED rating system is not sensitive and does not vary enough with regard to local environmental conditions. For instance, a building in Maine would receive the same credit as a building in Arizona for water conservation, though the principle is more important in the latter case. Another complaint is that its certification costs require money that could be used to make the building in question even more sustainable. Many critics have noted that compliance and certification costs have grown faster than staff support from the USGBC.\n\nFor existing buildings LEED has developed LEED-EB. Research has demonstrated that buildings that can achieve LEED-EB equivalencies can generate a tremendous ROI. In a 2008 white paper by the Leonardo Academy comparing LEED-EB buildings vs. data from BOMA's Experience Exchange Report 2007 demonstrated LEED-EB certified buildings achieved superior operating cost savings in 63% of the buildings surveyed ranging from $4.94 to $15.59 per square foot of floor space, with an average valuation of $6.68 and a median valuation of $6.07.\n\nIn addition the overall cost of LEED-EB implementation and certification ranged from $0.00 to $6.46 per square\nfoot of floor space, with an average of $2.43 per square foot demonstrating that implementation is not expensive, especially in comparison to cost savings. These costs should be significantly reduced if automation and technology are integrated into the implementation.\n\nMany federal, state, and local governments and school districts have adopted various types of LEED initiatives and incentives. A full listing of government and school LEED initiatives can be found online and is updated regularly.\n\nSome areas have implemented or are considering incentives for LEED-certified buildings.\n\nThe city of Cincinnati, Ohio adopted a measure providing an automatic 100% real property tax exemption of the assessed property value for newly constructed or rehabilitated commercial or residential properties that earn a minimum of LEED Certified.\n\nIn the state of Nevada, construction materials for a qualifying LEED building are exempt from local taxes. Pieces of construction that are deemed \"inseparable\" parts, such as concrete or drywall, qualify.\n\nThe state of Maryland passed its High Performance Buildings Act in 2008, requiring all new public construction and renovation of buildings greater than 7,500 square feet to meet at least the LEED Silver standard, or two Green Globes. Between 2009 and 2014, the state is required to fund half of the required additional cost for public school construction or renovation to attain that standard.\n\nThe state of Michigan is considering tax-based incentives for LEED buildings.\n\nMany local governments have adopted LEED incentive programs. Program incentives include tax credits, tax breaks, density bonuses, reduced fees, priority or expedited permitting, free or reduced-cost technical assistance, grants and low-interest loans.\n\nIn June 2013, the USGBC announced a program called \"LEED Earth\" that refunds LEED certification fees to the first LEED-certified project in the countries that so far lack one.\n\nThe Philip Merrill Environmental Center is recognized as one of the \"greenest\" buildings ever constructed in the United States at the time when it was built. Sustainability issues ranging from energy use to material selection were given serious consideration throughout design and construction of this facility. It was the first building to receive a Platinum rating through the U.S. Green Building Council's LEED Rating System, version 1.0.\n\nWhen it opened in 2003, Pittsburgh's David L. Lawrence Convention Center was the first Gold LEED-certified convention center and largest \"green\" building in the world. The convention center subsequently earned Platinum certification in 2012, becoming the only convention center in the world with certifications for both the original building and new construction. In October 2011 Apogee Stadium on the campus of the University of North Texas became the first newly built stadium in the country to achieve Platinum-level certification. In Pittsburgh, Phipps Conservatory & Botanical Gardens visitors center has received a Silver certification, its Center for Sustainable Landscapes has received a Platinum certification along with fulfilling the Living Building Challenge for net-zero energy, and its greenhouse production facility has received Platinum certification, the first and only greenhouse so certified. Also in Pittsburgh, Sota Construction Services completed construction on its new 7,500 sq. ft. corporate headquarters, which features a super-efficient thermal envelope using cob walls, along with other energy-saving features like a geothermal well, radiant heat flooring, roof-mounted solar panel array, and daylighting features. It earned a LEED Platinum rating in 2012 and received one of the highest scores by percentage of total points earned in any LEED category, making it the \"greenest\" building in Pennsylvania and in the top ten greenest in the world.\n\nAround 2009–2010, the Empire State Building was undergoing a $550 million renovation, with $120 million spent in an effort to transform the building into a more energy efficient and eco-friendly structure. Receiving a gold LEED rating in September 2011, the Empire State Building was at the time the tallest LEED-certified building in the United States.\n\nThe Coastal Maine Botanical Gardens Bosarge Family Education Center completed in 2011 achieved LEED Platinum certification and has become known as Maine's \"greenest building.\"\n\nIn May 2012, Soldier Field in Chicago became the first National Football League stadium certified LEED.\n\nIn 2013, naked Stables Resort in Moganshan, China became the first LEED Platinum certified resort of its size in Asia.\n\nIn July 2014, the San Francisco 49ers' Levi's Stadium in Santa Clara, California became the first venue in the United States to earn a LEED Gold certification, setting the bar and expectations for future NFL stadiums. The Minnesota Vikings look to match and exceed the expectations set by the 49ers when they open U.S. Bank Stadium in 2016.\n\nThe Cashman Equipment building is the first construction equipment dealership to receive LEED certification. It is the largest LEED industrial complex in Nevada. Caterpillar corporate has rewritten their development guidelines for new facilities based on this building.\n\nThe Letterman Digital Arts Center in San Francisco's Presidio, the headquarters for various Lucasfilm companies, including visual effects house Industrial Light and Magic, earned a Gold certification. It was built almost entirely from the recycled remains of the building it replaced, the Letterman Army Hospital.\n\nThe Cuyahoga County Public Library system is building newer branches so that they could be LEED Certified. In the construction of the Garfield Heights, Ohio new branch, the library used green materials, the lighting of Garfield Heights Branch lightens or dims when there is ample daylight. The glass windows have light sensors that work with lights inside the library. Also, the library uses a raised floor and has recyclable carpet tiles.\n\nOpening in September 2012, Siemens' The Crystal became the world's first building awarded LEED Platinum and BREEAM Outstanding status. Generating its own energy, using solar power and ground source heat pumps, no fossil fuels are burnt within the building. Its extensive use of KNX technologies to automate the building's environmental controls has set the benchmark for sustainable buildings.\n\nWhen it received LEED Platinum in 2012, Manitoba Hydro Place in downtown Winnipeg, Manitoba was the most energy efficient office tower in North America and the only office tower in Canada to receive the Platinum rating. The office tower employs south facing winter gardens to capture the maximum amount of solar energy during the harsh Manitoba winters, and uses glass extensively to maximise natural light.\n\nIn its 2017 environmental responsibility report, Apple claims its Apple Park campus will become the largest LEED Platinum building in North America when it opens in May 2017. It is said that the entire complex runs on 100% renewable energy (solar power and fuel cells), the air conditioning will run 70% of the year without consuming energy by using the natural air flow, and 80% of the area is open space with over 9000 drought resistant trees.\n\nIn 2005, Auden Schendler and Randy Udall, respectively a LEED-accredited professional who is the director of environmental affairs at the Aspen Skiing Company and a Colorado-based environmentalist, published an article titled \"LEED is Broken; Let's Fix It\", in which they criticized numerous aspects of the LEED certification process, which they characterized as \"costly, slow, brutal, confusing, and unwieldy ... that makes green building more difficult than it needs to be...\" Schendler and Udall also identify an environmentalist fallacy which they call \"LEED brain\", in which the public relations value of LEED certification begins to drive the development of buildings. Writer David Owen, in his book \"Green Metropolis\" give as an example of \"LEED brain\" the building by Gap Inc. of a green showcase building in San Bruno, California that, in itself, was a paradigm of environmentally-friendliness, but by its location, 16 miles from the company's corporate headquarters in downtown San Francisco, and 15 miles from Gap's corporate campus in Mission Bay, was actually harmful to the environment by forcing Gap employees to drive more miles, and the addition of shuttle buses between the various buildings. Owen points out that \"no bus is as green as an elevator.\"\n\nIn his book \"Walkable City\", city planner Jeff Speck provides another example of \"LEED brain\": the federal Environmental Protection Agency relocated its Region 7 Headquarters from downtown Kansas City, Missouri, to a LEED-certified building 20 miles away in the suburb of Lenexa, Kansas, causing many of the agency's 627 employees to drive additional miles to and from work. Kaid Benfield of the Natural Resources Defense Council estimated that the carbon emissions associated with the additional miles driven were almost three times higher than before, a change from 0.39 metric tons per person per month to 1.08 metric tons of carbon dioxide per person per month. Speck writes that \"The carbon saved by the new building's LEED status, if any, will be a small fraction of the carbon wasted by its location.\"\n\nBoth Speck and Owen make the point that a building-centric standard such as LEED, which doesn't sufficiently account for the location in which the building stands, will inevitably undervalue the strong positive effect of people living together in cities, which are inherently environmentally efficient, especially when compared to the automobile-oriented sprawl.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27322084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27322084", "title": "Leela Förderkreis E.V. and Others v. Germany", "text": "Leela Förderkreis E.V. and Others v. Germany\n\nLeela Förderkreis e.V. and Others v. Germany (application No. 58911/00) was a case decided by the European Court of Human Rights in 2008.\n\nThe applicants were religious or meditation associations belonging to the Osho movement. As part of their public relations work, State agencies have characterised these associations as a \"sect\", \"youth sect\", \"youth religion\" and \"psycho-sect\". The adjectives \"destructive\" and \"pseudo-religious\" have also been used to describe them, and the accusation has been raised that their members are manipulated.\n\nFederal Constitutional Court, after more than 11 years of consideration, decided that the use of the expressions \"destructive\", and \"pseudo-religious\" on the associations, and the allegation that they \"manipulated their members\", did not satisfy the requirements of constitutional law. However, it found that the Government was authorised to characterise the applicant associations’ movement as a \"sect\", \"youth religion\", \"youth sect\" and \"psycho-sect\" and was allowed to provide the public with adequate information about it.\n\nThe Court held that the length of the proceedings was excessive and failed to meet the \"reasonable time\" requirement. Therefore it has found a breach of Article 6 § 1 of the European Convention on Human Rights (rights to fair trial), unanimously.\n\nConcerning allegations of violating Article 9 (freedom of thought, conscience and religion), the Court held that \"the Government's statements as delimited by the Federal Constitutional Court, at least at the time they were made, did not entail overstepping the bounds of what a democratic State may regard as the public interest.\"\n\nTwo judges, Trajkovska and Kalaydjieva, filed partially dissenting opinions, considering that Article 9 was violated (Kalaydjieva saw also Article 14 as violated).\n\n"}
{"id": "50802219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50802219", "title": "Legal history in Honduras", "text": "Legal history in Honduras\n\nThe Republic of Honduras has had a considerable number of constitutional codes through its history.\n\nDuring the pre-independence period the province of Honduras was governed under the 1808 Constitution of Bayonne.\n\n\n\nHonduran law belongs to the family of the Rights romanistas, derived from Common law. Initially it was formed by norms of Indigenous law and of Castillan law. His coding was initiated by the liberal governments from the decade of 1880.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33634978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33634978", "title": "Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act, 2002", "text": "Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act, 2002\n\nMineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act (MPRDA) is an act of the Parliament of South Africa. It came into effect on May 1, 2004, and now governs the acquisition, use and disposal of mineral rights. The old common-law principles are therefore no longer applicable. The MPRDA entrenches state power and control over the mineral and petroleum resources of the country.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57746144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57746144", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Slovakia)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Slovakia)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice of the Slovak Republic is the central authority of the Slovak State Administration for the Courts and Bailiffs. The following are some of the primary goals of the Ministry:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21527352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21527352", "title": "Mohamed v. Jeppesen Dataplan, Inc.", "text": "Mohamed v. Jeppesen Dataplan, Inc.\n\nMohamed et al. v. Jeppesen Dataplan, Inc., is a case brought by the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) on behalf of five victims of extraordinary renditions against Jeppesen Dataplan, Inc., which had provided services that the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) used to perform renditions.\n\nAccording to an article that appeared in October 2006 in \"The New Yorker\", the CIA is a Jeppesen customer. The article claims that the company has provided navigational and logistics support to the agency's extraordinary rendition program. The article says Jeppesen provided \"flight plans, clearance to fly over other countries, hotel reservations, and ground-crew arrangements\" to the CIA. According to the article, an unnamed former employee quoted Bob Overby, Jeppesen's managing director, as saying at a meeting, \"We do all of the extraordinary renditions flights—you know, the torture flights. ... Let's face it, some of those flights end up that way... It certainly pays well.\"\n\nOn November 16, 2006, Amnesty International staged a demonstration in front of the company's International Trip and Flight Planning Office in San Jose, California to protest their involvement in the rendition program. In December 2006 representatives of the South Bay Mobilization for Peace and Justice group asked the San Jose City Council to remove a Jeppesen banner from a city skating rink. The group also holds a weekly vigil at the company's offices.\n\nOn May 30, 2007, the ACLU sued Jeppesen on behalf of five plaintiffs who had been tortured in Morocco, Egypt and a United States base in Afghanistan. The suit alleged that, since 2001, Jeppesen provided support for at least seventy flights for the CIA's secret extraordinary rendition program, transporting prisoners overseas to be tortured. The suit was dismissed in February 2008 on a motion from the United States government, on the theory that proceeding with the case would reveal state secrets and endanger relations with other nations that had cooperated.\n\nOn September 8, 2010, in a 6–5 en banc ruling, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed the dismissal of the suit, and the ACLU filed an appeal with the Supreme Court in December 2010.\n\nOn May 16, 2011, the Supreme Court declined to review the decision of the Ninth Circuit to dismiss the case.\n\n"}
{"id": "55811237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55811237", "title": "Multi-stakeholder governance", "text": "Multi-stakeholder governance\n\nMultistakeholder participation is a specific governance approach whereby relevant stakeholders participate in the collective shaping of evolutions and uses of the Internet.\n\nIn 2005, the Working Group in Internet Governance (WGIG), set up by the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS), defined Internet governance as: ‘development and application by Governments, the private sector and civil society, in their respective roles, of shared principles, norms, rules, decision-making procedures, and programs that shape the evolution and use of the Internet’. This is not identical to undifferentiated public participation in Internet issues. Instead, the concept of ‘multistakeholder’ signals specifically the distinct clusters of interests involved in any given digital issue and how these interests can be aggregated into decisions towards an Internet for the general interest, rather than being captured by a single power center.\n\nThe general principle of participation in decision-making that impacts on the lives of individuals has been part of the Internet from its outset, accounting for much of its success. It recognizes the value of multistakeholder participation, incorporating users and a user-centric perspective as well as all other actors critical to developing, using and governing the Internet across a range of levels. The other principles are enriched by the multistakeholder participation principle, because it states that everyone should have a stake in the future of the Internet.\n\nIt is possible to define a number of broad categories of stakeholders in the Internet, with subgroups as well: State, businesses and industries, non-governmental actors, civil society, international governmental organization, research actors, individuals, and others. Each of these categories has more or less unique stakes in the future of the Internet, but there are also areas of great overlap and interdependence. For instance, some NGOs, are likely to prioritize the promotion of human rights; meanwhile parliaments are primary actors in defining laws to protect these rights. Still other stakeholders are key to shaping rights online, such as search engine providers, and Internet Service Providers (ISPs). Individuals also have particular roles to play in respecting, promoting and protecting rights.\n\nInternet governance is the development and application of shared principles, norms, rules, decision-making procedures, and programs that shape the evolution and use of the Internet. Internet governance should not be confused with e-governance, which refers to governments' use of technology to carry out their governing duties. Although some argue that Internet governance ‘as a unitary regime may in fact be an impossibility’, a broader conceptualisation of governance recognises both the entirety and the diversity of governance activities that steer the “ship”.\n\nThe Tunis Agenda for the Information Society, defines Internet Governance as: \"the development and application by governments, the private sector and civil society, in their respective roles, of shared principles, norms, rules, decision-making procedures, and programmes that shape the evolution and use of the Internet.\"\n\nIt is often argued that multistakeholder participation is better, at least in principle, ‘than governance by governments alone’, as it can uphold the interests of non-elected actors in relation to governments (most of which are elected, although others not). In addition, governments may lack the necessary competence and/or adequate political will in relation to expert and benign Internet governance. Multistakeholder participation more broadly can be posited as a way to prevent capture of the Internet by one constituency to the expense of another – whether this is capture by various state actors and their interstate organizations, or by private sector interests nationally or internationally. In other words, governments themselves have an interest in multistakeholder modalities as a way to prevent Internet capture by other power centers.The participation of more stakeholders can inject expertise and reflect a diversity of needs. The legitimacy thus ascribed to multistakeholder decision-making is closely tied to ‘the expectation of a higher quality of policy outcomes’, or simply ‘better governance’.\n\nThe reality of multistakeholder participation is sometimes challenged by issues that relate both to the nature of the Internet itself – including jurisdiction and enforcement, scale, and the pace at which it changes and grows – as well as challenges pertaining to its governance.\n\nBroadly taken, the notion of stakeholders considers anyone or any entity with a legitimate interest in a particular Internet governance issue as a ‘stakeholder’. It recognizes that not all stakeholders automatically self-realize or self-identify as stakeholders, and not all multistakeholder processes include all stakeholders. It further recognizes that multistakeholder-based participation represents interests-based participation, rather than undifferentiated, individual or idiosyncratic involvement by members of the public. Multistakeholder approaches should welcome and not exclude disagreement and minority or less-popular viewpoints, but may justifiably exclude disruptive actors who deploy disagreement to unreasonably disrupt the process or to damage trust.\n\nGender divides are a significant and pressing challenge facing the Universality of the Internet ecosystem – ranging from women’s ability to access and benefit the Internet to their ability to participate meaningfully in multistakeholder processes. Gender itself can be described as ‘the social and cultural constructs that each society assigns to behaviors, characteristics and values attributed to men and women, reinforced by symbols, laws and regulations, institutions, and perceptions.’\n\nThere is continued disagreement about what the definition of multistakeholder participation in governance actually is or should be, issues of due recognition, the scope of participation and unequal nature of representation – particularly from developing countries and civil society participants, the (in)ability to reach consensus, the exclusivity of some ostensibly inclusive processes and the unwillingness to listen to different views, attempts to establish legitimacy, the sometimes slow pace of multistakeholder mechanisms, as well as the increasing number of stakeholders and complexity of challenges involved as the importance of the Internet to everyday life and economies becomes increasingly clear. All these challenges are significant and sometimes they differ depending on the context and issue or topic at hand. However, three general concerns that are frequently mentioned in the literature, relate to the conspicuous dominance or absence of certain participants, especially the private sector; how multistakeholder mechanisms should be balanced with multilateral arrangements; and what the relationship between Internet governance at national and international levels is or should be.\n\nMultistakeholder participation and governance mechanisms may be a ‘rather recent invention’, but they have a longer tradition as an ‘organizing principle and political practice’. Such approaches are far from unique to Internet governance; with claims of their application and use especially prevalent in topics with cross-border or international relevance. Examples include labour relations, environmental protection, finance, human rights, and sustainable development. Where the Internet is concerned, multistakeholder participation in its governance seems to possibly be both intrinsic – and more complicated – than in many other instances of multistakeholder participation. The ways in which the Internet was designed has both allowed and disallowed specific types of behaviour online; meaning that the actions that led to the creation of the Internet were already acts of governance (albeit most likely unintended).\n\nAlthough some have argued that the Internet is free from any regulatory oversight or jurisdictional restraints and should remain so, the Internet internally was never entirely a rule-free nor a ‘law-free zone’, nor was it a different universe to external legal constraints. Due to its unique design and composition, many have argued that the Internet requires non-traditional forms of governance – and particularly governance forms encouraging the participation of more stakeholders in addition to governments (democratic or otherwise), which have been the key agent of governance in the Westphalian system of national states.\n\nThe Internet is often cited as not only one of the prime examples of multistakeholder participation in governance, but sometimes described as inherently ‘multistakeholder’. The Internet is defined by open, distributed, interconnected, participatory, and bottom-up processes – features that match multistakeholder participation in specific regard to its governance. Vint Cerf, one of the authors of the Internet Protocol (IP), has similarly noted that: \"There is no question in my mind that the diversity of players in the Internet universe demands a multi-stakeholder approach to governance in the most general sense of the word. The debate around how the Internet is or should be governed has in some ways evolved from a discussion of how/whether the Internet can be governed to one concerning ‘whether there is (or should be) something new and different about the way we do so\". Cerf’s words ‘in the most general sense of the word’ are important, as they also underpin the view that an understanding of multistakeholder approaches should not be approached in a dogmatic manner. The demand for and value of multistakeholder participation in Internet governance was first explicitly expressed at the WSIS, which took place in two phases between 2003 (in Geneva, Switzerland, with a focus on principles) and 2005 (in Tunis, Tunisia, with a focus on implementation).\n\nKenya is widely regarded as a leading developing country participant in the global Internet governance field and has one of the most vibrant Internet governance communities in Africa. Kenya’s ICT evolution, explains Professor Bitange Ndemo, who previously served as Kenya’s Permanent Secretary for ICT, was catalysed during President Mwai Kibai’s administration (2003-2013). This ‘golden decade’ for ICT innovation spurred numerous policy developments in the country’s ICT sector, along with corresponding success stories like the innovative mobile financial service M-PESA. It saw the creation of not only the world’s first national and regional IGF initiatives, but also an oft-lauded multistakeholder platform for deliberation on policy and other developments pertaining to the ICT sector in October 2004, the Kenya ICT Action Network (KICTANet).\n\nAlice Munyua, who was part of Kenya’s civil society delegation to WSIS, explains that shortly after WSIS she was commissioned to support the development of Kenya’s ICT sector as a part of Catalysing Access to ICT in Africa (CATIA), a development programme which was supported by the UK Department for International Development (DFID). Recognizing the ICT policy gap in Kenya, Munyua commissioned research to determine which stakeholders would need to be consulted or engaged in developing a new ICT policy for the country. As she later advised in a co-written volume: It is useful to carry out a stakeholder analysis at the beginning of a multi-stakeholder process to ensure that there is a clear understanding of who should be involved in the process, to what extent, and at what time during the process. Using the results of the Kenya stakeholder analysis, participants from the media, business, civil society, academic, and development sectors were invited to an initial meeting in October 2004.\n\nKICTANet was created as a loose alliance at this meeting with the specific aim of developing an ICT policy framework for the country. It was specifically designed to welcome multistakeholder participation due to the ‘perceived strength and effectiveness in joint collaborative policy advocacy activities, which would be based on pooling skills and resources,’ as opposed to wasting resources in ‘competing, overlapping advocacy’. Its operating slogan was, ‘let’s talk though we may not agree’. Tina James, who worked with CATIA when it supported the creation of KICTANet, points out: ‘the creation of KICTANet was just the right process at the right time.'\n\nWith government and other stakeholders apparently relying on it, KICTANet therefore continued after the ICT policy was adopted, leading to ‘quite a lot of successes’ like the 2010 Kenya ICT Master Plan, as well as the regulatory approval of M-Pesa and Voice over Internet Protocol (VOIP) services in the country. It also, for instance, participated in discussions that led to the drafting and passing of the National Cybersecurity Strategy (2014) and coordinated public participation in consultations like the 2014 African Union Convention on Cybersecurity. By managing a website and mailing list with almost 800 participants from diverse stakeholder groups, it has been described as ‘perhaps the biggest virtual convener of ICT stakeholders in Kenya’.\n\nGrace Mutung’u, a KICTANet associate responsible for policy and regulatory analysis, worries that Kenya’s Internet governance capacity is still limited to a ‘small bubble’; leading to doubts about what the network’s actual capacity and influence is in the country.\n\nThe Marco Civil da Internet, otherwise known as the Brazilian Internet Bill of Rights or the Brazilian Civil Rights Framework for the Internet, was sanctioned by then president Dilma Roussef at the time of the NETMundial meeting in 2014.\n\nThis case is viewed as one of the first attempts for initiatives to become more concrete, formal, accountable and tangible, rather than merely aspirational, and identifiable therefore as being covered by what has come to be known as the ‘digital constitutionalism umbrella’. The Marco Civil process also shows that multistakeholder processes are ‘a compelling hallmark of digital constitutionalism’.\n\nThe Marco Civil therefore emerged as a rights-based response to the ‘Azeredo’ Bill. The process began in 2009 when the Ministry of Justice’s Office of Legislative Affairs (SAL/MJ) requested the Centre for Technology and Society at Getulio Vargas Foundation (CTS-FGV) to help coordinate a process of public consultations engaging all stakeholders, including those who had been vocal in opposing the Azeredo Bill. SAL/MJ enabled public consultations using a portal administered by the Ministry of Culture. SAL’s principal reason for using this platform was that the participatory process enabled by the online platform would serve as a complementary branch to the traditional legislative process.\n\nAs some analysts point out: \"Once it became clear that Brazil needed a bill of rights for the Internet, it also became clear that the Internet itself could and should be used as a tool for drafting the legislation\". The period of public comments was divided into two phases. The first phase involved consulting with the general public regarding certain principles proposed for debate, while the second phase involved examining each article and paragraph of the proposed draft bill. A focus group participant pointed out that dividing the process into these two phases allowed stakeholders sufficient time to develop positions on key aspects of the Bill.\n\nAfter the process of public consultations, the Marco Civil was introduced in the National Congress on 24 August 2011. The Bill was submitted to the House of Representatives on several occasions but was unable to make further progress in parliament. Carlos Affonso Souza, director of the Institute for Technology and Society of Rio de Janeiro (ITS Rio), remembers that this moment in the Bill’s development coincided with a change of administration and became a ‘crucial moment’ with concerns as to whether the Bill would withstand political constraints and change: People began to wonder if the multistakeholder effort that took us so long to achieve was being put in peril because of this change of administration. The Marco Civil only resurfaced on the national legislative agenda in 2013 when Edward Snowden, an ex-National Security Agency (NSA) contractor, made revelations regarding pervasive surveillance practices by certain intelligence agencies.\n\nIn September 2013, Rousseff decided that the Bill should be tabled in the House of Representatives and the Senate with constitutional urgency. The final version explicitly notes that to aid the development of the Internet in Brazil, mechanisms must be established to enhance and guarantee multistakeholder, transparent, collaborative and democratic participation between private actors, civil society, and academia (Art. 24). While the WSIS process outcomes and CGI.br Principles also provide important reference points for Brazil’s adoption of multistakeholder approaches in international fora where Internet governance is concerned.\n\nThe Constitutional challenge in the Republic of South Korea illustrates not only a multistakeholder model but also the importance of having strong institutions like an independent judiciary to protect human rights online. On 24 August 2012, the South Korean Constitutional Court unanimously ruled that certain user identity verification provisions in the country were unconstitutional. For five years, the provisions had required all major website operators in the Republic of South Korea to obtain, verify, and store personal identification details from any user wanting to post anything on their platforms. This constitutional challenge shows how the stakeholders collaborated to bring this challenge before the Constitutional Court of South Korea.\n\nThe consequences of the provisions were widespread and attracted both local and global criticism. For instance, Frank La Rue, then the UN Special Rapporteur on the Promotion and Protection of Freedom of Expression, undertook a mission to South Korea in May 2010 and expressed concerns about the condition of freedom of expression in the country. While he acknowledged the need to protect citizens from ‘legitimate concerns regarding crimes perpetrated via the Internet and the responsibility of the Government to identify such persons’, he also warned about potential chilling effects and the ‘impact of such identification systems to the right to freedom of expression, which is rooted in anonymity’.\n\nAround 2008, certain South Korean Internet stakeholders – including academics, the business community, technical community, civil society, and participants from the legal community – started having frequent, informal meetings to discuss Internet policies and related issues. These discussions became more vibrant after YouTube disabled its Korean page and published a blog post explaining and defending its global stance on freedom of expression.\n\nThe technical community provided information about how futile it was to try to identify users accurately or to measure the number of unique visitors to a page; while the business community provided data on the costs of establishing, storing, and managing such a system safely. Civil society organizations presented concerns to the Court about the effects the provisions were having on fundamental rights and the value of online anonymity. The Constitutional Court issued a unanimous ruling on 24 August 2012 that the provisions were unconstitutional for reasons ranging from the effect of the provisions on freedom of expression, freedom of the media, the right to privacy, and the unfair costs incurred by website operators. Professor Keechang Kim considers that: \"What happened in South Korea really shows some of the very serious shortcomings or negative consequences if Internet-related policies are taken in a very one-sided, top-down manner.\"\n\nThis case shows that reactive multistakeholder collaboration can be useful in addressing challenges, like restrictive legislation, that infringe upon Internet Universality (in this case freedom of expression and privacy rights) in one way or another.\n\nThe IGF is created by the WSIS and, more specifically, the Tunis Agenda. Despite scepticism and criticism relating to, among other things, the IGF’s ability to influence policy and/or to act as an Internet governance body, it has been described as integrally ‘part of the fabric of internet governance and as ‘a type of new laboratory’ in which to ‘promote multistakeholderism through multistakeholderism’. One writer, for instance, points out that: \"The IGF is the first organisation in Internet governance whose founding was explicitly based on the multi-stakeholder principle.\" The IGF’s Best Practice Forum (BPF) on Gender, more specifically, global focused, gender dimensioned, broader public policy emphasised. Also, the case introduces interesting questions pertaining to how multistakeholder participation is affected when disruptive actors participate in a process or activity.\n\nThe IGF’s mandate is tasked with, among other things, discussing public policy issues related to key elements of Internet governance by facilitating the exchange of information and best practices and by making ‘full use of the expertise of the academic, scientific and technical communities’. It is, at least in theory, multistakeholder in composition, and should furthermore strengthen and enhance ‘the engagement of stakeholders in existing and/or future Internet governance mechanisms, particularly those from developing countries’.\n\nTo enrich the potential for more tangible outputs, the IGF’s Multistakeholder Advisory Group (MAG) and Secretariat developed an intersessional programme intended to complement other IGF activities, such as regional and national IGF initiatives (NRIs), dynamic coalitions (DCs) and so-called best practice forums (BPFs). The outputs from this programme were designed to ‘become robust resources, to serve as inputs into other pertinent forums, and to evolve and grow over time’.\n\nIn 2015, the MAG decided to devote one of six BPFs to a gender-related challenge facing the Internet. Jac SM Kee of the global civil society organization Association for Progressive Communications (APC), who was one of the lead coordinators of the BPF Gender in 2015 and 2016, says that gender was increasingly becoming a pressing issue in Internet governance discussions at the time, which was why she originally proposed it to the MAG. While there was debate within the MAG as to what such a BPF should be focusing on, Kee takes the view that ‘because of the multistakeholder nature’ of MAG meetings and programme development procedures, whatever is proposed tends to be ‘taken on’. In 2015, the BPF Gender focused more specifically on online abuse and gender-based violence as ‘an increasingly important and focused area’ in the field of gender and Internet governance.\n\nEach year the BPF coordinators and rapporteur adopted a semi-structured methodology by organizing fortnightly virtual calls to introduce the topic to stakeholders, to welcome broader participation, to define the scope of the BPF’s priorities, and to investigate proposed methodologies that could encourage multistakeholder participation. In 2016, the BPF also tried to involve more stakeholders from other regions by arranging onsite meetings at certain NRIs, including Brazil IGF, Asia Pacific Regional IGF (APrIGF), the IGF of Latin America, and the Caribbean (LACIGF). These sessions were used to gather local best practices and to raise awareness of the BPF’s work. Where possible, lessons and stories gathered from these events were integrated into the BPF’s outcome report in 2016.\n\nThe case of the IGF’s BPF Gender illustrates the difficulties of promoting multistakeholder participation in Internet governance when certain, especially potentially contentious, topics are involved. It similarly shows the potential chilling effects that the participation of disruptive actors might have on a volunteer-driven, multistakeholder process. In that sense, it demonstrates the need to sometimes balance the values of openness and transparency often cherished in multistakeholder processes at the IGF with the need to also protect the safety and privacy of participants.\n\nInternet Universality is the concept that \"the Internet is much more than infrastructure and applications, it is a network of economic and social interactions and relationships, which has the potential to enable Human rights, empower individuals and communities, and facilitate sustainable development. The concept is based on four principles stressing the Internet should be Human rights-based, Open, Accessible, and based on Multistakeholder participation. These have been abbreviated as the R-O-A-M principles. Understanding the Internet in this way helps to draw together different facets of Internet development, concerned with technology and public policy, rights and development.\"\n\nUNESCO is now developing Internet Universality indicators - based on the ROAM principles - to help governments and other stakeholders to assess their own national Internet environments and to promote the values associated with Internet Universality. The research process was envisioned to include consultations at a range of global forums and a written questionnaire sent to key actors, but also a series of publications on important Internet Freedom related issues as encryption, hate speech online, privacy, digital safety and journalism sources. The outcome of this multidimensional research will be publicized in June 2018. The final indicators will be submitted to the UNESCO Member States in the International Program for Development of Communication (IPDC) for endorsement.\n"}
{"id": "20846240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20846240", "title": "National White Collar Crime Center", "text": "National White Collar Crime Center\n\nThe National White Collar Crime Center, also known as NW3C, is a congressionally funded non-profit corporation which trains state and local law enforcement agencies to combat emerging economic and cyber crime problems. The NW3C provides the general public with information and research on preventing economic and cyber crime. \n\nThe National White Collar Crime Center provides training, investigative support, and research to organizations involved in preventing, investigating and prosecuting economic and high tech crime.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11356958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11356958", "title": "Ontario Educational Resource Bank", "text": "Ontario Educational Resource Bank\n\nThe Ontario Educational Resource Bank (OERB) is a learning object repository (LOR) that has been available since December, 2006. It contains resources that match the kindergarten - grade 12 curriculum expectations. Students and teachers can search for content within it. Teachers can also contribute resources that they have created so that other teachers and students can make use of them.\n\nThe LOR holds a range of different types of resources such as worksheets, lesson plans and interactive Flash and Authorware learning objects. There are also deconstructed units and activities from the Secondary level courses in the provincial Learning Management System. Content can be viewed online, or downloaded and modified to fit the needs of students and the teaching style The OERB is accessible by all teachers and students of provincially funded schools. Access is provided through the local school board.\n\nThe website for the Ministry's e-learning Ontario initiative is found at: http://elearningontario.ca/\n\n"}
{"id": "3114250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3114250", "title": "Parental responsibility (criminal)", "text": "Parental responsibility (criminal)\n\nIn Canada and the United States, the term \"parental responsibility\" refers to the potential or actual liability that may be incurred by parents for the behavior of their children.\n\nParental responsibility legislation has been enacted in three Canadian provinces: Manitoba (1997), Ontario (2000), and British-Columbia (2001).\n\nUnder the Parental Responsibility Act, 2000, a \"child\" is anyone under the age of 18 years, and \"parent\" means: \nThe Small Claims Court may order such parents to compensate those suffering any loss or damage intentionally caused by their child, unless the parent was exercising reasonable supervision over the child at the time the child engaged in the activity that caused the loss or damage and made reasonable efforts to prevent or discourage the child from engaging in the kind of activity that resulted in the loss or damage.\n\nThere is a political movement for greater parental accountability following of a number of highly publicized violent crimes committed by children. While all U.S. states allow parents to be sued for the various actions of their children, the idea of criminal legislation to enable the prosecution of adults for “neglectful” parenting is relatively new. For example, a number of states have enacted or proposed laws that will: \nSuch legislation is constitutionally problematic in that it is often both broad and vague, and may very well infringe upon the privacy of the family. The sponsors of these laws argue that \"parental delinquency\" is usually the cause of the \"juvenile delinquency\", but opponents argue that there is little evidence to support the claim that youth crime is caused by “bad parenting” and that there are many other social, cultural and economic causes that should be addressed. Opponents argue that the increased work hours and multiple jobs that a growing number of parents must take to provide for their families' basic needs decreases their ability to supervise their child(ren), thus creating an injustice with regard to the parents' culpability in the child's action. In 1988, California enacted the Street Terrorism and Prevention Act, which provides for prison sentences of up to one year and fines up to $2,500 for parents who “grossly” or “culpably” deviate from the “normal” standards of supervision. The California Supreme Court later upheld the constitutionality of this Act.\n"}
{"id": "1262999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1262999", "title": "Postal voting", "text": "Postal voting\n\nPostal voting is voting in an election whereby ballot papers are distributed to electors or returned by post, in contrast to electors voting in person at a polling station or electronically via an electronic voting system. Historically, postal votes must be distributed and placed in return mail before the scheduled election day, it is sometimes referred to as a form of early voting. It can also be used as an absentee ballot. However, in recent times the model in the US has morphed, in municipalities that use postal voting exclusively, to be one of ballots being mailed out to voters, but the return method taking on alternatives of return by mail or dropping off the ballot in person via secure drop boxes and/or voting centers. \n\nPostal voting refers only to the means by which the ballots are submitted, not to the method by which the votes are counted. Election officials may count the votes by processing the mailed-in ballots through electronic voting machines, or may count the votes manually.\n\nTo enable as many voters as possible to participate, postal voting can assist people who may not be able to attend a polling station in person, for example because of a physical disability, absence from the locality or some other reason. Postal voting is generally available to voters upon application, sometimes with restrictions. If no reason for a request is required, it may be called postal vote on demand. Postal voting may be an option for voters in some jurisdictions, while in some elections there may be all-postal voting.\n\nA form of postal voting was introduced in Western Australia in 1877, followed by an improved method in South Australia in 1890. On the other hand, concerns about postal voting have been raised as to whether it complies with the requirements of a secret ballot, in that people cast their vote outside the security of a polling station, and whether voters can cast their vote privately free from another person's coercion. There have been cases of electoral fraud with postal votes in the United Kingdom (including in Birmingham at the 2004 European and local government elections in the UK).\n\n\"All-postal\" voting is the form of postal voting where all electors receive their ballot papers through the post, not just those who requested an absentee ballot. Depending on the system applied, electors may have to return their ballot papers by post, or there may be an opportunity to deliver them by hand to a specified location.\n\nThere is some evidence that this method of voting leads to higher turnout than one where people vote in person or have to apply for a postal vote. Critics suggest that this is only a temporary impact, and that there are dangers in people using ballot papers intended for other electors.\n\nIt has been tested by a large number of local authorities in the United Kingdom for their elections, and in 2004 it was used for elections to the European Parliament and local authorities in four of the English regions (see below for more details).\n\nFrance had absentee voting until the 1970s, when it was abolished because they were classified as a security risk in terms of vote-rigging.\n\nAbsentee voting has existed in Germany since 1957, in order to ensure that all German citizens, especially the old, sick, and disabled, and citizens living abroad, have had the opportunity to participate in elections. Like in many other countries, in more recent years, voting by mail has become increasingly popular among younger and non-disabled citizens residing within the country; as such, various tools are being developed to help citizens, both domestic and abroad, more easily apply for postal voting.\n\nSince 2001 Italian citizens living abroad have the right to vote by mail in all referendums and national elections being held in Italy (provided they had registered their residence abroad with their relevant consulate).\n\nIn Malaysia, opposition leader and former deputy prime minister Anwar Ibrahim alleged that postal votes have been used by the ruling Barisan Nasional coalition in securing seats in certain constituencies. He also said that in one particular constituency (Setiawangsa), he claimed that his Parti Keadilan Rakyat had actually won during the 2008 elections, before 14,000 postal votes came in awarding the incumbent BN parliamentarian the seat with a majority of 8,000 votes. In Malaysia, only teachers, military personnel, and policemen based away from their constituencies are eligible to submit postal votes.\n\nIn Mexico, since the 2006 federal elections, postal voting for people living abroad has been permitted. A request can be made to the National Electoral Institute which then sends the ballots outside the country.\n\nMail-in ballots are an option for Overseas Filipinos in select countries only. The general practise for local and overseas absentee voting in Philippine elections requires that ballots be cast in person at select polling places, such as a consulate office.\n\nIn Spain, for European, regional and municipal elections, voters who will be absent from their town on election day or are ill or disabled, may request a postal vote at a post office. The application must be submitted personally or through a representative in case of illness or disability certified by a medical certificate.\n\nSwiss federal law allows postal voting in all federal elections and referenda, and all cantons also allow it for cantonal ballot issues. All voters receive their personal ballot by mail and may either cast it at a polling station or mail it back.\n\nVote-by-mail (also known as Vote from Home) is a variation of postal voting in the United States in which a ballot is mailed to the home of a registered voter, the voter fills it out and returns it via postal mail or drops off the ballot in-person into a secure drop box or at a voting center. This process eliminates the requirements to staff and run a polling center during an election and can result in considerable cost savings to the state. Balloting materials may be sent via the United States Postal Service without prepayment of postage. \n\nBallots are sent out around three weeks before the election date, after a voter's pamphlet has been distributed. To vote by mail, an individual marks the ballot for their choice of the candidates (or writes in their name), places the ballot in a secrecy envelope, seals it, places it in the provided mailing envelope, seals it and signs and dates the back of the mailing envelope. This envelope is then either stamped and mailed at any mailbox, or dropped off (postage free) at a local ballot collection center.\nThere is a cut off date for mailing ballots and it is determined by the local voting jurisdiction. In some jurisdictions, postmarks do not count, and ballots must be received by a certain time on election day. In other jurisdictions, a ballot must have a postmark on or before the day of the election and be received prior to the date of certification. Many vote-by-mail jurisdictions enlist the help of volunteers to take ballots in walk up Drop off Booths or drive-up Quick Drop locations. The Help America Vote Act requires some polling options, often at central election headquarters, with machines designed for voting by those disabled who cannot vote a normal ballot.\n\nIn the 2016 US Presidential election, approximately 33 million ballots were cast via mailed out ballots (about 25% of all ballots cast). That was from a combination of the 100% vote by mail jurisdictions plus absentees elsewhere. In 2016, the US Government Accountability Office (GAO) issued a report outlining the turnout improvements seen in vote by mail elections. In 2018, a report from the US Senate Intelligence Committee of Russian meddling in the 2016 election pointed out that paper ballots, by definition part of all vote by mail elections, were inherently safer than electronic voting systems.\n\nIn Texas, some electoral fraud has occurred over the years involving political operatives illegally aiding those eligible to vote by mail, usually voters over 65 years of age or voters with a disability. The overall rates of voter fraud are estimated to be low, with one study finding 2,068 cases of alleged voter fraud in the U.S. since 2000. In Oregon, where approximately 100 million ballots have been cast since the state went to 100% vote by mail in 2000, about 12 cases of voter fraud have been prosecuted. \n\nIn 1998, voters in Oregon passed an initiative requiring that all elections be conducted by mail. Voters may also drop their ballots off at a county designated official drop site. Oregon has since reduced the cost of elections, and the time available to tally votes has increased. Oregon requires receipt of votes by 8:00pm local time on election day. County elections offices collect from post offices at their closing time on election day and from drop boxes at 8:00pm election day. Any valid ballot received by 8:00pm local time on election day by any county is required to be counted, unless the cumulative votes of any valid ballots transferred to the relevant county elections office after the closing of the polls cannot change the outcome of the election for any given seat.\n\nIn 2011, the Washington legislature passed a law requiring all counties to conduct vote-by-mail elections. Local governments in Washington had the option to do so since 1987, and statewide elections had permitted it since 1993. By 2009, 38 of the state's 39 counties (all except Pierce County) had conducted all elections by mail. Pierce County had joined the rest of the state in all-mail balloting by 2014. In Washington, ballots must be postmarked by election day, which helps to ensure all voters' votes are counted; ballot counting takes several days after election day to receive and process ballots. Beginning in 2018 postage is prepaid so voters do not have to use a stamp.\n\nIn 2013, Colorado began holding all elections by mail. A Pantheon Analytics study of the 2014 election showed a significant uptick in voter participation from what would have normally been \"low propensity\" voters. A PEW Charitable Trust study of the same election showed significant cost savings.\n\nin 2014, Utah started allowing each county to make their own decision regarding whether to go to 100% mailed-out ballots. In the 2016 general election, 21 of their 29 counties did so. That rose to 27 of 29 counties in 2018, covering over 98% of their electorate. A Pantheon Analytics study of Utah's 2016 general election showed a 5-7% point higher turnout in the counties using vote by mail than those with traditional polling places, with even higher differences (~10% points) among younger voters. \n\nIn 2016, California passed SB 450 which authorizes a roll-out of vote by mail across the state, at county discretion. Five counties will do so in 2018. For 2020, all counties will be authorized to do so, except Los Angeles County, which will be authorized in 2022.\n\nOther jurisdictions are now starting to experiment with vote by mail, or run pilot programs. 31 of 53 counties in North Dakota now vote by mail, as do over 1000 precincts in Minnesota (those with fewer than 400 registered voters). In 2018, pilot programs in Anchorage, Alaska exceeded previous turnout records and Garden County, Nebraska saw higher turnout versus the state average. Pilot programs in Rockville, MD in 2019 and Kauai County, HI in 2020 are planned. In 2018, Connecticut's Governor issued Executive Order 64, directing a study of a possible move to vote by mail. That report is due in September 2018.\n\nProject Vote published their findings in a 2007 article titled \"Vote-by-Mail Doesn't Deliver\" by\nMichael Slater and Teresa James. The article's conclusion states,\n\nIn Oregon (the original Vote-by-Mail state), more than half of voters now choose to drop off ballots. The states of Colorado and Washington have followed suit, with California starting to roll out in 2018. Utah will hit 98% of voters in this model in 2018.\n\nVBM Changes Get out the vote (GOTV) in a big way.\nWith VBM a government no longer has to get people to the vote center on election day, a government only has to collect their ballots and take those easily portable envelopes to a vote center or VBM drop site. This makes GOTV a lot easier, but it also makes fraud possible. There are already apocryphal stories and urban legends about people collecting ballots and dumping them. There is very little evidence for actual fraud. Some jurisdictions have set limits in an attempt to reduce putative fraud: New Jersey and Colorado limit agents to 10 and 3 ballots respectively; Oregon too has limits. Face to face GOTV has been found to be less effective with VBM. \n\nAn increasing number of states in the USA now allow drive-thru voting. In the process voters leave their absentee ballots in a drop box at designated locations. Some locations allow drop-off voting 24/7. It turns out that more and more states are adopting the Colorado model, providing voters with multiple ways to return their ballot: by mail, via in person secure drop boxes, and at voting centers where they can get questions answered, replacement ballots, etc. Oregon now has 300 drop boxes across the state in the weeks leading up to each election, and in fact more voters now cast their ballot in person than by return mail. The term \"Vote at Home\" is starting to replace \"Vote by mail\" for that reason. California's roll-out of vote by mail is incorporating voting centers as a key part of their effort. Anchorage's successful pilot included many drop boxes and some voting centers.\n\nVoting at elections originally took place by way of a public show of hands or by a public ballot. The right to vote by secret ballot was introduced by the \"Parliamentary and Municipal Elections Act 1872\" (the \"Ballot Act 1872\"). After this voting took place at polling stations where voters marked their votes in secret and placed their ballot papers in a closed box.\n\nAbsent voting was first introduced for the immediate post-war period in 1918 for servicemen and others prevented \"‘by reason of the nature of their occupation…from voting at a poll\"' by the \"Representation of the People Act 1918\". Armed forces still serving overseas at the end of World War I were allowed to vote by post, and permanent arrangements were made for proxy voting by servicemen. The \"Representation of the People Act 1945\" again made temporary provision for postal voting by service voters. Postal voting was not extended to civilians until 1948 when the \"Representation of the People Act 1948\" granted postal voting facilities to both service personnel and to certain groups of civilians including those who were physically incapacitated, those unable to vote without making a journey by sea or air or because of the nature of their occupation, and those who were no longer residing at their qualifying address. All had to provide an address in the UK to which ballot papers could be sent. Service personnel could, alternatively, vote by proxy if they were likely to be at sea or abroad on polling day.\n\nIn 1983, in its review of electoral law, the Home Affairs Select Committee criticised the categories of absent voters who were allowed to vote by post. The Committee made clear that they would not wish absent voting facilities to be made available to everybody on demand but recommended that \"the Home Office should review the existing criteria for eligibility for absent voting facilities, and in particular we suggest that it would be permissible to apply for a postal vote due to absence “by reason of employment”, without the necessity to distinguish between one type of employment or another.\" The Committee also called for voters absent on holiday to have the right to apply for a postal vote. The Government responded to the Committee's report in January 1984 and expressed some concern at the increased opportunities for electoral abuse offered by absent voting (especially postal voting) and in particular by the standing arrangements made for those allowed an absent vote for an indefinite period. However, the Government's response was summed up as follows:\n\nThe \"Representation of the People Act 1985\" subsequently made provision for these extensions to the right to apply for an absent vote. The proposals did not apply to Northern Ireland where there was already widespread concern, shared by the Government, at the extent and nature of electoral abuse, including the abuse of postal voting. Further amendments were made to the rules governing absent voting in the \"Representation of the People Act 1989\".\n\nBy 1999 the system of postal and proxy voting for those unable to vote at polling stations was seen as cumbersome and complex. A Working Party on Electoral Procedures chaired by George Howarth, Minister of State at the Home Office, published its report in October 1999. The working party recommended that\n\n\nThe \"Representation of the People Act 2000\" implemented the Howarth report's recommendations. \"The Representation of the People (England & Wales) Regulations 2001\" introduced the changes to the absent voting arrangements from 16 February 2001. The main change was to allow postal voting on demand.\n\nSince 2001, any elector has been entitled to request a postal vote (known as \"postal voting on demand\") without giving a reason, apart from in Northern Ireland, where postal voting is available only if it would be unreasonable to expect a voter to go to a polling station on polling day as a result of employment, disability or education restrictions. Prior to 2001, postal votes had been available since 1948 only to those unable to attend a polling station for reasons of ill health, employment or planned holiday away from home and to some electors living on small islands where they would need to cross water to reach their polling station. Before 1985, holidays were not a sufficient reason, and the employment criterion allowed only some professions.\n\nRegistered voters who wish to vote by post must submit an additional application form to the Electoral Registration Officer at their local authority (or to the Electoral Office for Northern Ireland if in Northern Ireland) stating whether they want their ballot paper to be sent for one single election, all elections until a specified date or indefinitely. They must also submit their date of birth, and signature specimen on the form (or apply for a grant of a signature waiver due to a disability or inability to read or write). In addition, if a person eligible to vote in the United Kingdom is chosen by another voter to be his/her proxy, the proxy can apply to vote by post. To receive a postal vote for an election, the postal vote application must have been received by the Electoral Registration Officer by 5 p.m. eleven working days before polling day.\n\nReturning officers issue and despatch postal ballot packs at 5 p.m. on the eleventh working day before polling day at the earliest. Issue of postal ballots is not open to the scrutiny of candidates and their agents; by law, only the returning officers, their staff, representatives of the Electoral Commission and observers accredited by the Electoral Commission are permitted to attend. Some returning officers produce postal ballot packs in house, whilst others outsource the process to an external company.\n\nEach postal ballot pack contains inside the cover envelope a ballot paper, two envelopes (\"A\" and \"B\") and a postal voting statement. Postal ballots are printed on paper of a colour different from that of ballots issued in polling stations. Postal ballot papers contain the following design, security and identification features on the reverse:\nWhen issuing each postal ballot paper, the officer marks on a list (called the corresponding number list) next to the postal ballot's unique identification number the elector number of the voter to whom the postal ballot is sent, and then makes a mark next to the voter's name in a separate list of postal voters. The unique identification number of the postal ballot paper is also marked on the postal voting statement sent within the postal ballot pack. The local authority name and address and the name of the constituency/ward are printed on both envelopes \"A\" and \"B\". Once all ballot papers for an election have been issued by the returning officer, the corresponding number list is sealed in a packet which can only be opened upon the order of a court when an election result is challenged.\n\nUpon receipt of the postal ballot pack, the voter completes the ballot paper according to the instructions and seals it inside the envelope marked \"A\". A separate postal voting statement must be filled in by the voter with his/her date of birth and signature (unless a signature waiver has been granted or if the voter is an anonymous elector). It is strongly recommended that postal voting statement and envelope \"A\" (containing the ballot paper) be placed and sealed inside the larger envelope \"B\" when returned, although this is not a requirement. The vote can be posted back to the returning officer at the local authority address (postage is prepaid when returned from within the United Kingdom), or returned in person to the returning officer at the local authority office, or directly handed in to a polling station on polling day (but only one which is situated within the constituency/ward marked on envelopes \"A\"/\"B\"). For the vote to be counted, it must \"reach\" the returning officer/polling station by the close of poll (usually 10 p.m. on polling day).\n\nUpon receipt of a postal ballot pack in the post (or of the postal ballot paper and postal voting statement if sent separately), the returning officer places it inside the postal voters' ballot box allocated to the particular constituency/ward. If a presiding officer receives a postal ballot pack in a polling station, it is sealed inside a packet which is later delivered to the returning officer at the close of poll together with a form recording the number of postal ballot packs received by the presiding officer.\n\nCandidates and their agents, representatives of the Electoral Commission and observers accredited by the Electoral Commission and entitled to observe the opening of postal ballot packs - the returning officer must give candidates and their agents at least 48 hours' written notice of the time and location of every opening session of postal ballot packs. After emptying the postal voters' ballot box, the postal voting statements and envelopes marked \"A\"/loose postal ballot papers are separated into two different groups. The returning officer is required to verify the date of birth and signature filled in on at least 20% of the postal voting statements from each postal voters ballot box with the details provided on the original postal vote application forms. If the details do not match, then the postal voting statement is rejected. The returning officer makes a mark next to the name of the voter on the postal voters list for each postal voting statement received, even if it is selected for verification and rejected. On a separate list, the returning officer must write down the unique identification numbers of postal voting statements which were chosen for verification and subsequently rejected.\n\nThe returning officer then compiles all loose postal ballot papers together with postal ballot papers having been removed from envelopes marked \"A\". The unique identification numbers of all rejected postal ballot papers are noted on a list.\nThe postal ballot papers are counted and finally placed in the postal ballot box(es), except for rejected postal ballot papers and postal ballot papers which have the same unique identification number as rejected postal voting statements. The postal ballot box is securely sealed by the returning officer (candidates and agents can also apply their own seals).\n\nAt the count, the postal ballot boxes have their seals broken, are opened and then the postal ballot papers are counted.\n\nVoters can contact the returning officer to check that their postal voting packs (or their postal voting statements and their postal ballot papers) have been received - however a response can only be given after an opening session since the returning officer will have to refer to the postal voters list. At the end of an election, the marked postal voter lists are open for public inspection and also can be purchased by the Electoral Commission, candidates, elected representatives, government departments, police forces, registered political parties and local constituency parties.\n\nThere have been cases of electoral fraud with postal votes in the UK (including at the 2004 European and local government elections in Birmingham).\n\nIn 2000, the UK government passed legislation to permit local authorities to apply to pilot innovations in the method of voting at local elections (including all-postal voting, electronic voting, and voting at weekends), with the first pilot elections being held in May that year.\n\nIn May 2000, 2002 and 2003, many local authorities piloted all-postal voting at their local elections. In May 2003, 35 local authorities did so. The outcome of those pilots was a recommendation from the Electoral Commission that all-postal voting should be adopted as the normal method of voting at local elections in the UK. This reflected the positive impact on voter turnout at these elections (in some places, turnout doubled) and the fact that there was no evidence of an increase in electoral fraud.\n\nThe local elections scheduled for May 2004 were postponed to June and combined with the European Parliament elections. The UK government used this opportunity to trial all-postal voting in these elections across four regions: North East, North West, East Midlands, and Yorkshire and the Humber.\n\nThe pilots did show a significant increase in turnout where postal voting was trialled.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50354", "title": "Precautionary principle", "text": "Precautionary principle\n\nThe precautionary principle (or precautionary approach) generally defines actions on issues considered to be uncertain, for instance applied in assessing risk management. The principle is used by policy makers to justify discretionary decisions in situations where there is the possibility of harm from making a certain decision (e.g. taking a particular course of action) when extensive scientific knowledge on the matter is lacking. The principle implies that there is a social responsibility to protect the public from exposure to harm, when scientific investigation has found a plausible risk. These protections can be relaxed only if further scientific findings emerge that provide sound evidence that no harm will result.\n\nIn some legal systems, as in law of the European Union, the application of the precautionary principle has been made a statutory requirement in some areas of law.\n\nRegarding international conduct, the first endorsement of the principle was in 1982 when the World Charter for Nature was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly, while its first international implementation was in 1987 through the Montreal Protocol. Soon after, the principle integrated with many other legally binding international treaties such as the Rio Declaration and Kyoto Protocol.\n\nThe concept \"precautionary principle\" is generally considered to have arisen in English from a translation of the German term \"\" in the 1980s. In 1988, Konrad von Moltke described the German concept for a British audience, which he translated into English as the precautionary principle.\n\nThe concepts underpinning the precautionary principle pre-date the term's inception. For example, the essence of the principle is captured in a number of cautionary aphorisms such as \"an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure\", \"better safe than sorry\", and \"look before you leap\". The precautionary principle may also be interpreted as the evolution of the \"ancient-medical principle\" of \"first, do no harm\" to apply to institutions and institutional decision-making processes rather than individuals.\n\nIn economics, the Precautionary Principle has been analysed in terms of \"the effect on rational decision-making\", of \"the interaction of irreversibility\" and \"uncertainty\". Authors such as Epstein (1980) and Arrow and Fischer (1974) show that \"irreversibility of possible future consequences\" creates a \"quasi-option effect\" which should induce a \"risk-neutral\" society to favour current decisions that allow for more flexibility in the future. Gollier et al. (2000) conclude that \"more scientific uncertainty as to the distribution of a future risk – that is, a larger variability of beliefs – should induce society to take stronger prevention measures today\" p245.\n\nMany definitions of the precautionary principle exist: Precaution may be defined as \"caution in advance\", \"caution practised in the context of uncertainty\", or informed prudence. Two ideas lie at the core of the principle:\n\n\nOne of the primary foundations of the precautionary principle, and globally accepted definitions, results from the work of the Rio Conference, or \"Earth Summit\" in 1992. The principle 15 of the Rio Declaration notes: \"In order to protect the environment, the precautionary approach shall be widely applied by States according to their capabilities. Where there are threats of serious or irreversible damage, lack of full scientific certainty shall not be used as a reason for postponing cost-effective measures to prevent environmental degradation.\"\n\nThe 1998 Wingspread Statement on the Precautionary Principle summarises the principle this way: \"When an activity raises threats of harm to human health or the environment, precautionary measures should be taken even if some cause and effect relationships are not fully established scientifically.\" The Wingspread Conference on the Precautionary Principle was convened by the Science and Environmental Health Network.\n\nIn February 2000, the Commission of the European Communities noted in a \"Communication from the Commission on the Precautionary Principle\" that, \"The precautionary principle is not defined in the Treaties of the European Union, which prescribes it [the Precautionary Principle] only once – to protect the environment. But in practice, its scope is much wider, and specifically where preliminary-objective-scientific-evaluation indicates that there are reasonable grounds for concern that potentially dangerous effects on the environment, human, animal or [and] plant health may be inconsistent with the high level of protection [for what] chosen for the Community.\"\n\nThe January 2000 Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety says, in regard to controversies over GMOs: \"Lack of scientific certainty due to insufficient relevant scientific information ... shall not prevent the Party of [I]mport, in order to avoid or minimize such potential adverse effects, from taking a decision, as appropriate, with regard to the import of the living modified organism in question.\"\n\nThe application of the precautionary principle is hampered by both lack of political will, as well as the wide range of interpretations placed on it. One study identified 14 different formulations of the principle in treaties and nontreaty declarations. R.B. Stewart (2002) reduced the precautionary principle to four basic versions:\n\n\nIn deciding how to apply the principle, one may use a cost-benefit analysis that factors in both the opportunity cost of not acting, and the option value of waiting for further information before acting. One of the difficulties of the application of the principle in modern policy-making is that there is often an irreducible conflict between different interests, so that the debate necessarily involves politics.\n\n\"Strong precaution\" holds that regulation is required whenever there is a possible risk to health, safety, or the environment, even if the supporting evidence is speculative and even if the economic costs of regulation are high. In 1982, the United Nations World Charter for Nature gave the first international recognition to the strong version of the principle, suggesting that when \"potential adverse effects are not fully understood, the activities should not proceed\". The widely publicised Wingspread Declaration, from a meeting of environmentalists in 1998, is another example of the strong version. Strong precaution can also be termed as a \"no-regrets\" principle, where costs are not considered in preventative action.\n\n\"Weak precaution\" holds that lack of scientific evidence does not preclude action if damage would otherwise be serious and irreversible. Humans practice weak precaution every day, and often incur costs, to avoid hazards that are far from certain: we do not walk in moderately dangerous areas at night, we exercise, we buy smoke detectors, we buckle our seatbelts.\n\nAccording to a publication by the New Zealand Treasury Department,\n\nThe World Charter for Nature, which was adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1982, was the first international endorsement of the precautionary principle. The principle was implemented in an international treaty as early as the 1987 Montreal Protocol, and among other international treaties and declarations is reflected in the 1992 Rio Declaration on Environment and Development (signed at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development).\n\nNo introduction to the precautionary principle would be complete without brief reference to the difference between the precautionary principle and the precautionary approach. Principle 15 of the Rio Declaration 1992 states that: \"in order to protect the environment, the precautionary approach shall be widely applied by States according to their capabilities. Where there are threats of serious or irreversible damage, lack of full scientific certainty shall be not used as a reason for postponing cost-effective measures to prevent environmental degradation.\" As Garcia (1995) pointed out, \"the wording, largely similar to that of the principle, is subtly different in that: (1) it recognizes that there may be differences in local capabilities to apply the approach, and (2) it calls for cost-effectiveness in applying the approach, e.g., taking economic and social costs into account.\" The 'approach' is generally considered a softening of the 'principle'.\n\n\"As Recuerda has noted, the distinction between the 'precautionary principle' and a 'precautionary approach' is diffuse and, in some contexts, controversial. In the negotiations of international declarations, the United States has opposed the use of the term 'principle' because this term has special connotations in legal language, due to the fact that a 'principle of law` is a source of law. This means that it is compulsory, so a court can quash or confirm a decision through the application of the precautionary principle. In this sense, the precautionary principle is not a simple idea or a desideratum but a source of law. This is the legal status of the precautionary principle in the European Union. On the other hand, an 'approach' usually does not have the same meaning, although in some particular cases an approach could be binding. A precautionary approach is a particular 'lens' used to identify risk that every prudent person possesses (Recuerda, 2008)\n\nOn 2 February 2000, the European Commission issued a Communication on the precautionary principle, in which it adopted a procedure for the application of this concept, but without giving a detailed definition of it. Paragraph 2 of article 191 of the Lisbon Treaty states that\n\n\"Union policy on the environment shall aim at a high level of protection taking into account the diversity of situations in the various regions of the Union. It shall be based on the precautionary principle and on the principles that preventive action should be taken, that environmental damage should as a priority be rectified at source and that the polluter should pay.\"\n\nAfter the adoption of the European Commission's Communication on the precautionary principle, the principle has come to inform much EU policy, including areas beyond environmental policy. As of 2006 it had been integrated into EU laws \"in matters such as general product safety, the use of additives for use in animal nutrition, the incineration of waste, and the regulation of genetically modified organisms\". Through its application in case law, it has become a \"general principle of EU law\".\n\nIn Case T-74/00 \"Artegodan\", the General Court (then Court of First Instance) appeared willing to extrapolate from the limited provision for the precautionary principle in environmental policy in Article 191(2) TFEU to a general principle of EU law.\n\nIn France, the Charter for the Environment contains a formulation of the precautionary principle (article 5):\nOn 18 July 2005, the City of San Francisco passed a Precautionary Principle Purchasing ordinance, which requires the city to weigh the environmental and health costs of its $600 million in annual purchases – for everything from cleaning supplies to computers. Members of the Bay Area Working Group on the Precautionary Principle including the Breast Cancer Fund, helped bring this to fruition.\n\nIn 1997, Japan tried to use the consideration of the precautionary principle in a WTO SPS Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures case, as Japan's requirement to test each variety of agricultural products (apples, cherries, peaches, walnuts, apricots, pears, plums and quinces) for the efficacy of treatment against codling moths was challenged.\n\nThis moth is a pest that does not occur in Japan, and whose introduction has the potential to cause serious damage. The United States claimed that it was not necessary to test each variety of a fruit for the efficacy of the treatment, and that this varietal testing requirement was unnecessarily burdensome.\n\nThe most important Australian court case so far, due to its exceptionally detailed consideration of the precautionary principle, is Telstra Corporation Limited v Hornsby Shire Council.\n\nThe Principle was summarised by reference to the NSW \"Protection of the Environment Administration Act 1991\", which itself provides a good definition of the principle:\n\n\"If there are threats of serious or irreversible environmental damage, lack of full scientific certainty should not be used as a reasoning for postponing measures to prevent environmental degradation. In the application of the principle… decisions should be guided by:\n(i) careful evaluation to avoid, wherever practicable, serious or irreversible damage to the environment; and\n(ii) an assessment of risk-weighted consequence of various options\".\n\nThe most significant points of Justice Preston's decision are the following findings:\n\nA petition filed 17 May 2013 by environmental group Greenpeace Southeast Asia and farmer-scientist coalition Masipag (\"Magsasaka at Siyentipiko sa Pagpapaunlad ng Agrikultura\") asked the Appellate court to stop the planting of Bt eggplant in test fields, saying the impacts of such an undertaking to the environment, native crops and human health are still unknown. The Court of Appeals granted the petition, citing the precautionary principle stating \"when human activities may lead to threats of serious and irreversible damage to the environment that is scientifically plausible but uncertain, actions shall be taken to avoid or diminish the threat.\"\nRespondents filed a motion for reconsideration in June 2013 and on 20 September 2013 the Court of Appeals chose to uphold their May decision saying the \"bt talong\" field trials violate the people's constitutional right to a \"balanced and healthful ecology.\" The Supreme Court on 8 December 2015 permanently stopped the field testing for Bt (Bacillus thuringiensis) talong (eggplant), upholding the decision of the Court of Appeals which stopped the field trials for the genetically modified eggplant. The court is the first in the world to adopt the precautionary principle regarding GMO products in its decision.\n\nThe Body Shop International, a UK-based cosmetics company, included the precautionary principle in their 2006 Chemicals Strategy.\n\nFields typically concerned by the precautionary principle are the possibility of:\n\nThe precautionary principle is often applied to biological fields because changes cannot be easily contained and have the potential of being global. The principle has less relevance to contained fields such as aeronautics, where the few people undergoing risk have given informed consent (e.g., a test pilot). In the case of technological innovation, containment of impact tends to be more difficult if that technology can self-replicate. Bill Joy emphasised the dangers of replicating genetic technology, nanotechnology, and robotic technology in his article in \"Wired\", \"Why the future doesn't need us\", though he does not specifically cite the precautionary principle. The application of the principle can be seen in the public policy of requiring pharmaceutical companies to carry out clinical trials to show that new medications are safe.\n\nOxford based philosopher Nick Bostrom discusses the idea of a future powerful superintelligence, and the risks that we/it face should it attempt to gain atomic level control of matter.\n\nApplication of the principle modifies the status of innovation and risk assessment: it is not the risk that must be avoided or amended, but a potential risk that must be prevented. Thus, in the case of regulation of scientific research, there is a third party beyond the scientist and the regulator: the consumer.\n\nIn an analysis concerning application of the precautionary principle to nanotechnology, Chris Phoenix and Mike Treder posit that there are \"two forms\" of the principle, which they call the \"strict form\" and the \"active form\". The former \"requires inaction when action might pose a risk\", while the latter means \"choosing less risky alternatives when they are available, and [...] taking responsibility for potential risks.\" Thomas Alured Faunce has argued for stronger application of the precautionary principle by chemical and health technology regulators particularly in relation to Ti0 and ZnO nanoparticles in sunscreens, biocidal nanosilver in waterways and products whose manufacture, handling or recycling exposes humans to the risk of inhaling multi-walled carbon nanotubes.\n\nSeveral natural resources like fish stocks are now managed by precautionary approach, through Harvest Control Rules (HCR) based upon the precautionary principle. The figure indicates how the principle is implemented in the cod fisheries management proposed by the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea.\n\nIn classifying endangered species, the precautionary principle means that if there is doubt about an animal's or plant's exact , the one that would cause the strongest protective measures to be realised should be chosen. Thus, a species like the silvery pigeon that might exist in considerable numbers and simply be under-recorded or might just as probably be long extinct is not classified as \"data deficient\" or \"extinct\" (which both do not require any protective action to be taken), but as \"critically endangered\" (the conservation status that confers the need for the strongest protection), whereas the increasingly rare, but probably not yet endangered emerald starling is classified as \"data deficient\", because there is urgent need for research to clarify its status rather than for conservation action to save it from extinction.\n\nIf, for example, a large ground-water body that people use for drinking water is contaminated by bacteria (e-coli 0157 H7, campylobacter or leptospirosis) and the source of contamination is strongly suspected to be dairy cows but the exact science is not yet able to provide absolute proof, the cows should be removed from the environment until they are proved, by the dairy industry, not to be the source or until that industry ensures that such contamination will not recur.\n\nCritics of the principle use arguments similar to those against other formulations of technological conservatism.\n\nStrong formulations of the precautionary principle, without regard to its most basic provisions that it is to be applied only where risks are potentially high AND not easily calculable, applied to the principle itself as a policy decision, may rule out its own use. The reason suggested is that preventing innovation from coming to market means that only current technology may be used, and current technology itself may cause harm or leave needs unmet; there is a risk of causing harm by blocking innovation. As Michael Crichton wrote in his novel \"State of Fear\": \"The 'precautionary principle', properly applied, forbids the precautionary principle.\" For example, forbidding nuclear power plants based on concerns about risk means continuing to rely on power plants that burn fossil fuels, which continue to release greenhouse gases. In another example, the Hazardous Air Pollutant provisions in the 1990 amendments to the US Clean Air Act are an example of the Precautionary Principle where the onus is now on showing a listed compound is harmless. Under this rule no distinction is made between those air Pollutants that provide a higher or lower risk, so operators tend to choose less-examined agents that are not on the existing list.\n\nBecause applications of strong formulations of the precautionary principle can be used to block innovation, a technology which brings advantages may be banned by precautionary principle because of its potential for negative impacts, leaving the positive benefits unrealised.\n\nThe precautionary principle has been ethically questioned on the basis that its application could block progress in developing countries.\n\nThe precautionary principle calls for action in the face of scientific uncertainty, but some formulations do not specify the minimal threshold of plausibility of risk that acts as a \"triggering\" condition, so that any indication that a proposed product or activity might harm health or the environment is sufficient to invoke the principle. In \"Sancho vs. DOE\", Helen Gillmor, Senior District Judge, wrote in a dismissal of Wagner's lawsuit which included a popular worry that the LHC could cause \"destruction of the earth\" by a black hole:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1966578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1966578", "title": "Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children", "text": "Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children\n\nThe Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children (also referred to as the Trafficking Protocol or UN TIP Protocol) is a protocol to the Convention against Transnational Organised Crime. It is one of the three Palermo protocols, the others being the Protocol against the Smuggling of Migrants by Land, Sea and Air and the Protocol against the Illicit Manufacturing and Trafficking in Firearms.\n\nThe protocol was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 2000 and entered into force on December 25, 2003. As of February 2018, it has been ratified by 173 parties.\n\nThe United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) is responsible for implementing the protocol. It offers practical help to states with drafting laws, creating comprehensive national anti-trafficking strategies, and assisting with resources to implement them. In March 2009, UNODC launched the Blue Heart Campaign to fight human trafficking, to raise awareness, and to encourage involvement and inspire action.\n\nThe protocol commits ratifying states to prevent and combat trafficking in persons, protecting and assisting victims of trafficking and promoting cooperation among states in order to meet those objectives.\n\nThe protocol covers the following:\n\n\n\nThe convention and the protocol obligate ratifying states to introduce national trafficking legislation.\n\nIn Warsaw on 16 May 2005, the Council of Europe Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings was opened for accession. The convention established a Group of Experts on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings (GRETA) which monitors the implementation of the convention through country reports. It has been ratified (as of January 2016) by 45 European states, while a further one state (Turkey) has signed but not yet ratified it.\n\nComplementary protection is ensured through the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse (Lanzarote, 25 Oct 2007).\n\nIn addition, the European Court of Human Rights of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg has passed judgments involving trafficking in human beings which violated obligations under the European Convention on Human Rights: \"Siliadin v France\", judgment of 26 July 2005, and \"Rantsev v Cyprus and Russia\", judgment of 7 January 2010.\n\nThe Council of Europe co-operates closely with the United Nations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2078887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2078887", "title": "Psychotropic Substances Act (Thailand)", "text": "Psychotropic Substances Act (Thailand)\n\nThailand's Psychotropic Substances Act is a law designed to regulate certain mind-altering drugs. According to the Office of the Narcotics Control Board, \"The Act directly resulted from the Convention on Psychotropic Substances 1971 of which Thailand is a party.\" The Act divides psychotropic drugs into four Schedules. Offenses involving Schedule I and II drugs carry heavier penalties than those involving Schedule III and IV drugs. Note that this statute does not regulate most opioids, cocaine, or some amphetamines. The vast majority of narcotic painkillers, along with cocaine and most amphetamines are regulated under the Narcotics Act.\n\nSome examples include:\n\nSome examples include:\n\nSome examples include:\n\nSome examples include:\n\n Controlled Psychotropic Substances\n"}
{"id": "13212719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13212719", "title": "Public liability", "text": "Public liability\n\nPublic liability is part of the law of tort which focuses on civil wrongs. An applicant (the injured party) usually sues the respondent (the owner or occupier) under common law based on negligence and/or damages. Claims are usually successful when it can be shown that the owner/occupier was responsible for an injury, therefore they breached their duty of care.\n\nThe duty of care is very complex, but in basic terms it is the standard by which one would expect to be treated whilst one is in the care of another.\n\nOnce a breach of duty of care has been established, an action brought in a common law court would most likely be successful. Based on the injuries and the losses of the applicant the court would award a financial compensation package.\n\nIn the course of managing any property, you are obliged to comply with laws and statutes administered by government and municipal bodies. These bodies impose various liabilities of which the property owner/manager should be aware.\n\nThe most common examples of statute liability are in areas where you are required by law to effect insurance, e.g. workers' compensation and motor vehicle compulsory third party.\n\nProperty, hotel and operations managers should become familiar with the various types of contracts involved in commercial and retail activities. These cover a wide field but the more significant contracts are:\n\nThe major contractual liability from an insurance viewpoint is undoubtedly found in head lease and management agreements. These require the manager or head lessee to fully maintain, repair and replace the property, if damaged, until expiration of the agreement or lease.\n\nFurthermore, the contracts usually require an indemnity to the owner against liabilities imposed upon the business for injuries and property damage arising out of the use, occupation or management of the property.\n\nEvery contract contains covenants imposing responsibilities on one or other of the parties. These should be carefully examined to ensure they are not unduly onerous\n\nOwner/occupiers are required to provide a certain level of care. The duty of care is not the same for all people. It is dependent on a number of issues. To assist in establishing the duty of care required it is more clear to divide into groups the individuals who your premises and for what reasons. If we take an example of a large shopping complex the following groups of individuals would attract different levels of care.\n\nThese are people who by some form you have invited into your complex. This invitation can be through marketing and advertising, or it can be implied simply because you are a shopping complex or hotel. The greatest duty of care is owed to invitees who, in the case of shopping centres and hotels, are mainly customers, contractors and sub contractors. They are there because of the invitation you extend to them. The duty of care owed to them is relatively simple.\n\nYou must take reasonable care to ensure the premises are safe. They in turn must take reasonable care for their own safety.\n\nIf however an invitee spends money for a service, i.e. forms a contract with you, your duty of care is increased. An example of this could be a games arcade where the invitee pays for a ride on a motorcycle game. If as a result of playing this game the invitee is electrocuted, you have breached your duty of care and will most likely be found to be liable for any damages.\n\nIf, however, the reason for the electrocution was not due to your negligence but a product defect, and you have done all that is reasonably expected of an arcade owner to detect and fix this defect, you may proceed to sue the supplier of the game. This is because the supplier also owns a duty of care to the arcade owner as well as a contractual duty to provide safe, functioning equipment.\n\nThese are people who enter premises with the permission of the occupier but, unlike invitees, do so without any economic advantage to the occupier. They come in the hope of doing business with you or your tenants and include such people as salesmen, commercial travellers, etc. The duty of care owed to licensees are not quite as extreme as in the case of the invitees.\n\nThese are classified as people who intrude onto property without permission. The degree of care owed to trespassers, although slight, nevertheless exists particularly in situations where a source of danger is deliberately created or where small children are involved. An example would be where live wires were left exposed after the centre had closed. If some children entered the premises for some reason, despite that reason, if they were injured the owner of the centre would be liable.\n"}
{"id": "56523022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56523022", "title": "Rail Passenger Rights Regulation 2007", "text": "Rail Passenger Rights Regulation 2007\n\nThe Rail Passenger Rights Regulation 2007 (EC) No 1371/2007 gives railway passengers basic rights in EU law to refunds and minimum levels of service. It has mandatory application, without implementing legislation. Before this many countries, such as the United Kingdom, had no rights set in law for rail passengers. The Regulation creates minimum rights which every member state law, and every rail undertaking, may improve upon. \n\nNew EU rail rules which came into place in November 2018 however risk undermining these existing passenger rail rights. \n\nThe following is a summary of the Regulation's provisions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "327610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=327610", "title": "Rent-seeking", "text": "Rent-seeking\n\nIn public choice theory and in economics, rent-seeking involves seeking to increase one's share of existing wealth without creating new wealth. Rent-seeking results in reduced economic efficiency through poor allocation of resources, reduced actual wealth-creation, lost government revenue, increased income inequality, and (potentially) national decline.\n\nAttempts at capture of regulatory agencies to gain a coercive monopoly can result in advantages for the rent seeker in a market while imposing disadvantages on (incorrupt) competitors. This constitutes one of many possible forms of rent-seeking behavior.\n\nThe idea of rent-seeking was developed by Gordon Tullock in 1967, while the expression \"rent-seeking\" itself was coined in 1974 by Anne Krueger. The word \"rent\" does not refer specifically to payment on a lease but rather to Adam Smith's division of incomes into profit, wage, and rent. The origin of the term refers to gaining control of land or other natural resources.\n\nGeorgist economic theory describes rent-seeking in terms of land rent, where the value of land largely comes from government infrastructure and services (e.g. roads, public schools, maintenance of peace and order, etc.) and the community in general, rather than from the actions of any given landowner, in their role as mere titleholder. This role must be separated from the role of a property developer, which need not be the same person.\n\n\"Rent-seeking\" is an attempt to obtain economic rent (i.e., the portion of income paid to a factor of production in excess of what is needed to keep it employed in its current use) by manipulating the social or political environment in which economic activities occur, rather than by creating new wealth. Rent-seeking implies extraction of uncompensated value from others without making any contribution to productivity. The classic example of rent-seeking, according to Robert Shiller, is that of a feudal lord who installs a chain across a river that flows through his land and then hires a collector to charge passing boats a fee (or rent of the section of the river for a few minutes) to lower the chain. There is nothing productive about the chain or the collector. The lord has made no improvements to the river and is not adding value in any way, directly or indirectly, except for himself. All he is doing is finding a way to make money from something that used to be free.\n\nIn many market-driven economies, much of the competition for rents is legal, regardless of harm it may do to an economy. However, some rent-seeking competition is illegal – such as bribery or corruption.\n\nRent-seeking is distinguished in theory from profit-seeking, in which entities seek to extract value by engaging in mutually beneficial transactions. Profit-seeking in this sense is the creation of wealth, while rent-seeking is \"profiteering\" by using social institutions, such as the power of the state, to redistribute wealth among different groups without creating new wealth. In a practical context, income obtained through rent-seeking may contribute to profits in the standard, accounting sense of the word.\n\nTullock paradox refers to the apparent paradox, described by Tullock, on the low costs of rent-seeking relative to the gains from rent-seeking.\n\nThe paradox is that rent-seekers wanting political favors can bribe politicians at a cost much lower than the value of the favor to the rent-seeker. For instance, a rent seeker who hopes to gain a billion dollars from a particular political policy may need to bribe politicians only to the tune of ten million dollars, which is about 1% of the gain to the rent-seeker. Luigi Zingales frames it by asking, \"Why is there so little money in politics?\" because a naive model of political bribery and/or campaign spending should result in beneficiaries of government subsidies being willing to spend an amount up to the value of the subsidies themselves, when in fact only a small fraction of that is spent.\n\nSeveral possible explanations have been offered for the Tullock paradox:\n\n\nAn example of rent-seeking in a modern economy is spending money on lobbying for government subsidies in order to be given wealth that has already been created, or to impose regulations on competitors, in order to increase market share. Another example of rent-seeking is the limiting of access to lucrative occupations, as by medieval guilds or modern state certifications and licensures. Taxi licensing is a textbook example of rent-seeking. To the extent that the issuing of licenses constrains overall supply of taxi services (rather than ensuring competence or quality), forbidding competition by livery vehicles, unregulated taxis and/or illegal taxis renders the (otherwise consensual) transaction of taxi service a forced transfer of part of the fee, from customers to taxi business proprietors.\n\nThe concept of rent-seeking would also apply to corruption of bureaucrats who solicit and extract \"bribe\" or \"rent\" for applying their legal but discretionary authority for awarding legitimate or illegitimate benefits to clients. For example, tax officials may take bribes for lessening the tax burden of the taxpayers.\n\nRegulatory capture is a related term for the collusion between firms and the government agencies assigned to regulate them, which is seen as enabling extensive rent-seeking behavior, especially when the government agency must rely on the firms for knowledge about the market. Studies of rent-seeking focus on efforts to capture special monopoly privileges such as manipulating government regulation of free enterprise competition. The term \"monopoly privilege rent-seeking\" is an often-used label for this particular type of rent-seeking. Often-cited examples include a lobby that seeks economic regulations such as tariff protection, quotas, subsidies, or extension of copyright law. Anne Krueger concludes that \"empirical evidence suggests that the value of rents associated with import licenses can be relatively large, and it has been shown that the welfare cost of quantitative restrictions equals that of their tariff equivalents plus the value of the rents\".\n\nEconomists such as the chair of British financial regulator the Financial Services Authority Lord Adair Turner have argued that innovation in the financial industry is often a form of rent-seeking.\n\nThe phenomenon of rent-seeking in connection with monopolies was first formally identified in 1967 by Gordon Tullock.\n\nRecent studies have shown that the incentives for policy-makers to engage in rent-provision is conditional on the institutional incentives they face, with elected officials in stable high-income democracies the least likely to indulge in such activities vis-à-vis entrenched bureaucrats and/or their counterparts in young and quasi-democracies.\n\nCritics of the concept point out that, in practice, there may be difficulties distinguishing between beneficial profit-seeking and detrimental rent-seeking.\n\nOften a further distinction is drawn between rents obtained legally through political power and the proceeds of private common-law crimes such as fraud, embezzlement and theft. This viewpoint sees \"profit\" as obtained consensually, through a mutually agreeable transaction between two entities (buyer and seller), and the proceeds of common-law crime non-consensually, by force or fraud inflicted on one party by another. Rent, by contrast with these two, is obtained when a third party deprives one party of access to otherwise accessible transaction opportunities, making nominally \"consensual\" transactions a rent-collection opportunity for the third party. The high profits of the illegal drug trade are considered rents by this definition, as they are neither legal profits nor the proceeds of common-law crimes.\n\nPeople accused of rent-seeking typically argue that they are indeed creating new wealth (or preventing the reduction of old wealth) by improving quality controls, guaranteeing that charlatans do not prey on a gullible public, and preventing bubbles.\n\nFrom a theoretical standpoint, the moral hazard of rent-seeking can be considerable. If \"buying\" a favorable regulatory environment seems cheaper than building more efficient production, a firm may choose the former option, reaping incomes entirely unrelated to any contribution to total wealth or well-being. This results in a sub-optimal allocation of resources – money spent on lobbyists and counter-lobbyists rather than on research and development, on improved business practices, on employee training, or on additional capital goods – which retards economic growth. Claims that a firm is rent-seeking therefore often accompany allegations of government corruption, or the undue influence of special interests.\n\nRent-seeking can prove costly to economic growth; high rent-seeking activity makes more rent-seeking attractive because of the natural and growing returns that one sees as a result of rent-seeking. Thus organizations value rent-seeking over productivity. In this case there are very high levels of rent-seeking with very low levels of output. Rent-seeking may grow at the cost of economic growth because rent-seeking by the state can easily hurt innovation. Ultimately, public rent-seeking hurts the economy the most because innovation drives economic growth.\n\nGovernment agents may initiate rent-seeking – such agents soliciting bribes or other favors from the individuals or firms that stand to gain from having special economic privileges, which opens up the possibility of exploitation of the consumer. It has been shown that rent-seeking by bureaucracy can push up the cost of production of public goods. It has also been shown that rent-seeking by tax officials may cause loss in revenue to the public exchequer.\n\nMancur Olson traced the historic consequences of rent seeking in \"The Rise and Decline of Nations\". As a country becomes increasingly dominated by organized interest groups, it loses economic vitality and falls into decline. Olson argued that countries that have a collapse of the political regime and the interest groups that have coalesced around it can radically improve productivity and increase national income because they start with a clean slate in the aftermath of the collapse. An example of this is Japan after World War Two. But new coalitions form over time, once again shackling society in order to redistribute wealth and income to themselves. However, social and technological changes have allowed new enterprises and groups to emerge in the past.\n\nA study by Laband and John Sophocleus in 1988 estimated that rent-seeking had decreased total income in the USA by 45 percent. Both Dougan and Tullock affirm the difficulty of finding the cost of rent-seeking. Rent-seekers of government-provided benefits will in turn spend up to that amount of benefit in order to gain those benefits, in the absence of, for example, the collective-action constraints highlighted by Olson. Similarly, taxpayers lobby for loopholes and will spend the value of those loopholes, again, to obtain those loopholes (again absent collective-action constraints). The total of wastes from rent-seeking is then the total amount from the government-provided benefits and instances of tax avoidance (valuing benefits and avoided taxes at zero). Dougan says that the \"total rent-seeking costs equal the sum of aggregate current income plus the net deficit of the public sector\".\n\nMark Gradstein writes about rent-seeking in relation to public goods provision, and says that public goods are determined by rent seeking or lobbying activities. But the question is whether private provision with free-riding incentives or public provision with rent-seeking incentives is more inefficient in its allocation.\n\nThe economist Joseph Stiglitz has argued that rent-seeking contributes significantly to income inequality in the United States through lobbying for government policies that let the wealthy and powerful get income, not as a reward for creating wealth, but by grabbing a larger share of the wealth that would otherwise have been produced without their effort. Piketty, Saez, and Stantcheva have analyzed international economies and their changes in tax rates to conclude that much of income inequality is a result of rent-seeking among wealthy tax payers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9454228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9454228", "title": "Scottish variable rate", "text": "Scottish variable rate\n\nThe Scottish variable rate (SVR) was a mechanism which would have enabled the Scottish Government to vary (down or up) the basic rate of UK income tax by up to 3p in the pound. The power was never used (and indeed was allowed to lapse by the Scottish Government in 2007) and was succeeded by the legislative framework for Scottish public finance in the Scotland Act 2012, which gives the Scottish Parliament the power to set a Scottish rate of income tax.\n\nWhen legislating for the Scottish Parliament, a number of matters were reserved by the UK Parliament at Westminster. One such reserved matter was taxation; however, this had been a key point in Scottish negotiations relating to parliamentary control. As a means of compromise, Westminster afforded the Scottish Parliament the ability to vary income tax, which was subsequently given the consent of the Scottish electorate in the second question of the 1997 devolution referendum. \n\nTherefore, the Scotland Act 1998 granted the Scottish Parliament the power to vary income tax by ±3p in every pound. This power was often referred to as the tartan tax, a phrase first used by Conservative financier and politician Michael Forsyth as a way of attacking the power, using the idea of 'tartan' to get across the idea that it would be an extra tax on Scots alone. However, the phrase \"tartan tax\" would only correctly apply if the tax were varied upwards – no phrase was ever suggested if the tax were varied downwards.\n\n"}
{"id": "28231591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28231591", "title": "Seychellois constitutional referendum, 1992", "text": "Seychellois constitutional referendum, 1992\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Seychelles on 15 November 1992. Although the proposed new constitution received the support of 54.6% of voters, it failed to pass the 60% threshold required for adoption. Subsequently a second constitutional commission was created and a second draft put to a referendum the following year.\n\nA constitution was drafted by a commission elected earlier in 1992. It provided for a presidential system, with presidents limited to three terms of five years. Half of the National Assembly would be elected proportionally based on the results of presidential elections, whilst amendments to the constitution would require a referendum, with changes to some articles requiring a three-fifths majority to be approved.\n"}
{"id": "50579833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50579833", "title": "Stefanyk National Science Library", "text": "Stefanyk National Science Library\n\nStefanyk National Science Library () is a national library of Ukraine in the city of Lviv. It also serves as a science and research institute complex of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. \n\nThe library formally was established on 2 January 1940 with its headquarters in the building of Ossolineum and composed from holdings of Ossolineum and many other major libraries and private collections, all nationalized after the territory was annexed by the Soviet Union as a result of its invasion of Poland. It was named after Vasyl Stefanyk in 1971.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27197116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27197116", "title": "Therapeutic governance", "text": "Therapeutic governance\n\nThe term therapeutic governance has been used multiply in the social science literature, referring to two interrelated concepts. Therapeutic governance was first coined by Vannessa Pupavac to describe the management of the populations' psychology, and its significance for security. Allison McKim used the term therapeutic governance to describe the governmentality of alcohol and drug treatment, whereby treatment works as a type of responsibilizing governance in producing and managing a rational, self-interested subject. \n"}
{"id": "8855574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8855574", "title": "Thermal bridge", "text": "Thermal bridge\n\nA thermal bridge, also called a cold bridge, heat bridge, or thermal bypass, is an area or component of an object which has higher thermal conductivity than the surrounding materials, creating a path of least resistance for heat transfer. Thermal bridges result in an overall reduction in thermal resistance of the object. The term is frequently discussed in the context of a building's thermal envelope where thermal bridges result in heat transfer into or out of conditioned space.\n\nThermal bridges in buildings may impact the amount of energy required to heat and cool a space, cause condensation (moisture) within the building envelope, and result in thermal discomfort. In colder climates (such as The United Kingdom), thermal heat bridges can result in additional heat losses and require additional energy to mitigate.\n\nThere are strategies to reduce or prevent thermal bridging, such as limiting the number of building members that span from unconditioned to conditioned space and applying continuous insulation materials to create thermal breaks.\n\nHeat transfer occurs through three mechanisms: convection, radiation, and conduction. A thermal bridge is an example of heat transfer through conduction. The rate of heat transfer depends on the thermal conductivity of the material and the temperature difference experienced on either side of the thermal bridge. When a temperature difference is present, heat flow will follow the path of least resistance through the material with the highest thermal conductivity and lowest thermal resistance; this path is a thermal bridge. Thermal bridging describes a situation in a building where there is a direct connection between the outside and inside through one or more elements that possess a higher thermal conductivity than the rest of the envelope of the building. \n\nSurveying buildings for thermal bridges is performed using passive infrared thermography (IRT) according to the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). Infrared Thermography of buildings can allow thermal signatures that indicate heat leaks. IRT detects thermal abnormalities that are linked to the movement of fluids through building elements, highlighting the variations in the thermal properties of the materials that correspondingly cause a major change in temperature. The drop shadow effect, a situation in which the surrounding environment casts a shadow on the facade of the building, can lead to potential accuracy issues of measurements through inconsistent facade sun exposure. An alternative analysis method, Iterative Filtering (IF), can be used to solve this problem.\n\nIn all thermographic building inspections, the thermal image interpretation if performed by a human operator, involving a high level of subjectivity and expertise of the operator. Automated analysis approaches, such as Laser scanning technologies can provide thermal imaging on 3 dimensional CAD model surfaces and metric information to thermographic analyses. Surface temperature data in 3D models can identify and measure thermal irregularities of thermal bridges and insulation leaks. Thermal imaging can also be acquired through the use of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV), fusing thermal data from multiple cameras and platforms. The UAV uses an infrared camera to generate a thermal field image of recorded temperature values, where every pixel represents radiative energy emitted by the surface of the building. \n\nFrequently, thermal bridging is used in reference to a building’s thermal envelope, which is a layer of the building enclosure system that resists heat flow between the interior conditioned environment and the exterior unconditioned environment. Heat will transfer through a building’s thermal envelope at different rates depending on the materials present throughout the envelope. Heat transfer will be greater at thermal bridge locations than where insulation exists because there is less thermal resistance. In the winter, when exterior temperature is typically lower than interior temperature, heat flows outward and will flow at greater rates through thermal bridges. At a thermal bridge location, the surface temperature on the inside of the building envelope will be lower than the surrounding area. In the summer, when the exterior temperature is typically higher than the interior temperature, heat flows inward, and at greater rates through thermal bridges. This causes winter heat losses and summer heat gains for conditioned spaces in buildings.\n\nDespite insulation requirements specified by various national regulations, thermal bridging in a building's envelope remain a weak spot in the construction industry. Moreover, in many countries building design practices implement partial insulation measurements foreseen by regulations. As a result, thermal losses are greater in practice that is anticipated during the design stage.\n\nAn assembly such as an exterior wall or insulated ceiling is generally classified by a U-factor, in W/m·K, that reflects the overall rate of heat transfer per unit area for all the materials within an assembly, not just the insulation layer. Heat transfer via thermal bridges reduces the overall thermal resistance of an assembly, resulting in an increased U-factor.\n\nThermal bridges can occur at several locations within a building envelope; most commonly, they occur at junctions between two or more building elements. Common locations include:\n\nStructural elements remain a weak point in construction, commonly leading to thermal bridges that result in high heat loss and low surface temperatues in a room.\n\nWhile thermal bridges exist in various types of building enclosures, masonry walls experience significantly increased U-factors caused by thermal bridges. Comparing thermal conductivities between different building materials allows for assessment of performance relative to other design options. Brick materials, which are usually used for facade enclosures, typically have higher thermal conductivities than timber, depending on the brick density and wood type. Concrete, which may be used for floors and edge beams in masonry buildings are common thermal bridges, especially at the corners. Depending on the physical makeup of the concrete, the thermal conductivity can be greater than that of brick materials. In addition to heat transfer, if the indoor environment is not adequately vented, thermal bridging may cause the brick material to absorb rainwater and humidity into the wall, which can result in mold growth and deterioration of building envelope material.\n\nSimilar to masonry walls, curtain walls can experience significantly increases U-factors due to thermal bridging. Curtain wall frames are often constructed with highly conductive aluminum, which has a typical thermal conductivity above 200 W/m·K. In comparison, wood framing members are typically between 0.68 and 1.25 W/m·K. The aluminum frame for most curtain wall constructions extends from the exterior of the building through to the interior, creating thermal bridges.\n\nThermal bridging can result in increased energy required to heat or cool a conditioned space due to winter heat loss and summer heat gain. At interior locations near thermal bridges, occupants may experience thermal discomfort due to the difference in temperature. Additionally, when the temperature difference between indoor and outdoor space is large and there is warm and humid air indoors, such as the conditions experienced in the winter, there is a risk of condensation in the building envelope due to the cooler temperature on the interior surface at thermal bridge locations. Condensation can ultimately result in mold growth with consequent poor indoor air quality and insulation degradation, reducing the insulation performance and causing insulation to perform inconsistently throughout the thermal envelope\n\nThere are several methods that have been proven to reduce or eliminate thermal bridging depending on the cause, location, and the construction type. The objective of these methods is to either create a thermal break where a building component would span from exterior to interior otherwise, or to reduce the number of building components spanning from exterior to interior. These strategies include:\n\n\nDue to their significant impacts on heat transfer, correctly modeling the impacts of thermal bridges is important to estimate overall energy use. Thermal bridges are characterized by multi-dimensional heat transfer, and therefore they cannot be adequately approximated by steady-state one-dimensional (1D) models of calculation typically used to estimate the thermal performance of buildings in most building energy simulation tools. Steady state heat transfer models are based on simple heat flow where heat is driven by a temperature difference that does not fluctuate over time so that heat flow is always in one direction. This type of 1D model can substantially underestimate heat transfer through the envelope when thermal bridges are present, resulting in lower predicted building energy use.\n\nThe currently available solutions are to enable two-dimensional (2D) and three-dimensional (3D) heat transfer capabilities in modeling software or, more commonly, to use a method that translates multi-dimensional heat transfer into an equivalent 1D component to use in building simulation software. This latter method can be accomplished through the equivalent wall method in which a complex dynamic assembly, such as a wall with a thermal bridge, is represented by a 1D multi-layered assembly that has equivalent thermal characteristics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "513275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=513275", "title": "Thomas Parker, 1st Earl of Macclesfield", "text": "Thomas Parker, 1st Earl of Macclesfield\n\nThomas Parker, 1st Earl of Macclesfield, (23 July 1666 – 28 April 1732) was an English Whig politician.\n\nHe was born in Staffordshire, the son of Thomas Parker, an attorney at Leek. He was educated at Adams' Grammar School and Trinity College, Cambridge. He was married to Janet Carrier, whose sister was married to William Anson, 1st Baron Anson's father. He was called to the bar in 1691, and became a Member of Parliament and was knighted in 1705. In 1710 he refused the office of Lord Chancellor, but was made a Privy Counsellor. He was Lord Chief Justice from 1710 to 1718 and was involved in the prosecution of Dr Sacheverell. He made a vehement attack on Sacheverell and the high church clergy. He was also a friend of Bernard de Mandeville, whose satirical \"Fable of the Bees\" became highly controversial in the 1720s.\n\nHe became a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1713. He also had a grammar school built at Leek, his home town. In 1714 he was raised to the peerage as Baron Parker of Macclesfield.\n\nOn 1 August 1714, Queen Anne died, and her successor, King George I, was in Hanover, so Baron Parker was designated Regent of Great Britain, Ireland and the realms beyond the seas until the new monarch could be informed of the situation and take the crown. He governed until 18 September 1714. \n\nIn 1718, because the King could not speak English, Parker gave the King's Speech in the House of Lords.\n\nIn 1718, he became Lord Chancellor and given a pension for life, and was a favourite of the King. In 1721, he was advanced to the title Earl of Macclesfield with the additional subsidiary title of Viscount Parker. In 1724, he was implicated in financial irregularities, but he did not resign as Lord Chancellor until 1725.\n\nIn 1725, he was impeached and tried in the House of Lords. He was, unanimously, convicted of corruption for taking more than £100,000 in bribes (the equivalent of more than £11,000,000 today). He was fined £30,000 and placed in the Tower of London until payment was received. He was also struck off the roll of the Privy Council. He was a fabulously wealthy man, possibly because of his corruption, but as this money was confiscated, he had no resources to pay his fine. He spent most of the rest of his life at Shirburn Castle, where he was buried.\n\nHe was, however, still able to be a pallbearer at the funeral of Sir Isaac Newton in 1727. He died in Soho Square, London.\n\n"}
{"id": "14944388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14944388", "title": "Vasily Aleksanyan", "text": "Vasily Aleksanyan\n\nVasily Georgievich Aleksanyan (, ; 15 December 1971 – 2 October 2011) was a Russian lawyer, businessman, and a former Executive Vice President of Yukos oil company. On 6 April 2006 he was arrested as a suspected accomplice to tax evasion and money laundering. After a decision by European Court of Human Rights, he was released on a bond on 12 January 2009, dying from complications of AIDS on 2 October 2011.\n\nVasily Aleksanyan graduated from the Moscow State University and the Law School of Harvard University as a Master of Laws. In 1992 through 1994 he worked for the USA law firm Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton. In 1995–1996 he was the head of the legal department for the British Investment firm SUN Group. Since 1996 he worked as the head of the legal department for Yukos.\n\nOn 1 April 2006, amidst the legal troubles over Yukos company, his position was elevated to that of Executive Vice President. His new position was accepted by the shareholders on 4 April. His main stated goal in the new role was to streamline the corporate governance, achieving direct control over the assets of the company from the London Yukos headquarters bypassing the Moscow based offices of Yukos RM and Yukos EP. The decision was quite important for the struggling company as the Moscow-based offices bluntly refused all the supervision from London obeying orders of the government-controlled Rosneft instead. According to Aleksanyan, the lost control over the Moscow offices led to financial irregularities, including e.g. surfacing of counterfeit 10 billion ruble promissory note.\n\nOn 6 April 2006 Aleksanyan was taken into custody as a suspected accomplice to tax evasion and money laundering by Yukos. According to prosecutors, Aleksanyan was an accomplice to the embezzlement of more than 12 billion rubles. The arrest was based on the testimonies of Svetlana Bakhmina, a subordinate of Aleksanyan arrested in 2004. According to Aleksanyan, Bakhmina's testimonies were false, and were taken from her under pressure.\n\nAfter his arrest Aleksanyan started a hunger strike, insisting that his arrest without court hearings was illegal. He aborted his strike on 27 April 2006.\n\nDuring Aleksanyan's imprisonment, his health rapidly deteriorated due to HIV-related illnesses. He became almost blind and developed cancer of the liver with metastasis into the lymph nodes. He also became ill with tuberculosis.\n\nDespite the grave medical situation demanding urgent antiretroviral treatment and chemotherapy in a hospital, he was denied both. The prosecutors also ignored three injunctions by the European Court of Human Rights on 27 November 2007, on 6 December 2007 and on 20 December 2007. According to Aleksanyan, the prosecutors are demanding false evidence against other Yukos executives from him before starting his medical treatment. On 26 December Aleksanyan made public a statement asking for help from human rights advocates.\n\nEleven days into a hunger strike in his favour by Mikhail Khodorkovsky, Aleksanyan was transferred from a pre-trial prison to an oncological hospital on 8 February 2008. On 20 October 2008 Simonovsky Court of Moscow approved continuing pre-trial detention of Alexanyan despite his grave illnesses (he had cancer, tuberculosis and AIDS and his spleen was surgically removed).\n\nOn 8 December 2008 Moscow City Court reversed the decision of Simonovsky Court and decided to release Alexanyan under a bond of 50 million rubles (approximately $2 million). He was to be released after the money was paid. Human rights advocates Lev Ponomaryov and Lyudmila Alexeyeva welcomed the court decision but expressed concern whether Alexanyan would be able to pay this sum of money.\n\nOn 22 December 2008 European Court of Human Rights made its decision over the \"Aleksanyan v. Russia\" case. The court found Russia in violation of four articles of European Convention on Human Rights and obliged Russia to release Alexanyan immediately without any bond.\n\nOn 12 January 2009, after a bond of 50 million rubles was paid, Aleksanyan was released. But he was repeatedly summoned to attend court hearings, where he wore a face mask and could barely stand up during the proceedings. The case against him was only dropped last year as the statute of limitations ran out.\n\nAleksanyan died at his home in Moscow on 2 October 2011, due to complications from AIDS.\n\n"}
