{"id": "11896963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11896963", "title": "Andes to Amazon", "text": "Andes to Amazon\n\nAndes to Amazon is a nature documentary TV series co-produced by the BBC Natural History Unit in Bristol, England and Animal Planet, first transmitted in the UK on BBC2 in November 2000. In other territories it was broadcast under the title Wild South America\n\nEach of the six 50-minute episodes portrays a different aspect of the South American continent. The series features extensive aerial photography of major landforms shot by Bob Fulton, and footage of rarely glimpsed animals in the wild. \"Andes to Amazon\" was narrated by Fergal Keane and produced by Karen Bass.\n\nThe series forms part of the Natural History Unit's \"Continents\" strand, and was preceded by \"Land of the Tiger\" in 1997 and followed one year later by \"Congo\".\n\nThe filmmakers journeyed the length and breath of South America in search of locations and unusual species. Memorable sequences include an aerial journey over a glacier in Argentine Patagonia, jungle animals visiting an Amazon waterhole at night and luminous termite mounds in the grasslands of central Brazil. Other locations featured are the Galápagos Islands and the Salar de Uyuni, the world's biggest salt lake in the Bolivian altiplano.\n\nFilming and post-production took three years in all.\n\nBroadcast dates refer to the original UK transmission.\n\nA book, soundtrack CD and DVD were all released to accompany the TV series:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1067304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1067304", "title": "Claudius Clavus", "text": "Claudius Clavus\n\nClaudius Clavus (Suartho) also known as \"Nicholas Niger\", (), (September 14, 1388-?), was a Danish geographer sometimes considered to be the first Nordic cartographer.\n\nIt is believed that he was born in the village of Salling on the Danish island of Funen. He is commemorated by a plaque in the local \"Aagaarden\".\n\nIn 1412-13 at the age of 25 he started to travel around Europe and appeared eleven years later (1423–24) in Rome. It is believed he travelled as far north as the 70°10' N. lat. In Rome he became friends with the cardinal Giordano Orsini and the pope's secretary Gian Francesco Poggio Bracciolini, who were among those working to update the old Roman cartography. Claudius contributed to a more realistic description of Nordic countries, in particular Iceland and Greenland, and was probably the first cartographer to put Greenland on a map. He is also known for having named Greenlandic places by using lyrics from old folk songs.\n\nUnfortunately, most of his work (including two maps) is lost, but a copy has been preserved through the German cartographers Donnus Nicholas Germanus and Henricus Martellus Germanus, and in the nineteenth century more texts were rediscovered in the imperial library at Vienna. He drew 27 maps for a copy of the \"Geography\" by Ptolemy (see image).\n"}
{"id": "55738494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55738494", "title": "Corps of Topographs (Russian Empire)", "text": "Corps of Topographs (Russian Empire)\n\nThe Corps of Topographs of the Imperial Russian Army has a long history dating back to the mid-18th century. The earliest existing subunit of the Corps dates back to Quartermaster unite on 20 February 1702 with the act of Peter the Great.\n"}
{"id": "14664896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14664896", "title": "Daily urban system", "text": "Daily urban system\n\nThe daily urban system (DUS) refers to the area around a city, in which daily commuting occurs. It is a means for defining an urban region by including the areas from which individuals commute. Daily Urban System is a concept first introduced by American geographer, Berry, and British geographer, Hall. \n\nDaily urban system (DUS) mainly focusses on urban cities, where majority of the commuting flow take place. However, some case studies do look at the outskirts and suburban areas around specific urban cities that are being studied. The daily commuting includes both work and leisure, contributing to high density in the daily urban system. That results in slower the speed of transportation. The speed of transportation is about 16km/h at the central parts of urban cities, but speed may vary from place to place. \n\nUrban sprawl is the possible outcome of an expansion of the daily urban system. Therefore, it includes multiple local governments, economies, and demographics. The researchers that study daily urban system (DUS) are basically focusing on the transportation planning. Some are interested in micro analysis of an urban area per se, some carry out macro analysis of a region that is made up of several urban cities. \n\nThe difference between an agglomeration of an urban area and the daily urban system is that an agglomeration is a multivariate means of combining townships, counties, and other defined areas. It looks at shared economic relationships and other factors. Daily urban system, on the other hand, only attempts to show how far away people who commute into a city are living. It shows how much sprawl has occurred. That is, it shows how people are living unnecessarily far away from where they commute to everyday due to differences in conditions between the regions. \n\nA study in Olomouc research on the traveling distance among locations such as schools, hospitals, retail stores, and culture and sports centers of the region, and the towns in the hinterland of Olomouc too. The findings were different for the region and towns. The towns had shown improvement in traveling distance for commercial services, such as pharmacies and banking services. There were groceries and retail shops moving to large commercial centers too, cutting down traveling distance, which people were able to shop at the malls without having to travel much. However, the study found little changes region wise, especially in health care and education sectors. Commute for schools and health care institutions had remained stable. \n\nIn this article, the researchers were looking at the daily urban systems within Randstad to determine if the megalopolis is considered a network city. Commute within Randstad remained loose despite the rising proportions of population commuting to work over a decade (1992 to 2002). Many residents from the suburban areas were still commuting to work at the urban areas - large daily urban system - every day after ten years due to low job growth. Randstad was not considered as a network city because of its negative commuting balance, where large proportion of residents had to commute to large daily urban system for work. \n\nParis's central urban population is 2,125,246. It's agglomerated population is 9,644,507. That's a big difference. Roughly 7 million people live outside of Paris proper, but are easily within the greater Parisian area. Paris's daily urban system has a population of 11,174,743. That's 1.5 million people living outside of what can (at the most generous) be called Paris, and yet are commuting there every day. 10% of the city lives far enough away that they cannot really say they 'live outside of Paris,' but commute there daily.\n"}
{"id": "11040652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11040652", "title": "District Gazetteer", "text": "District Gazetteer\n\nThe District Gazetteer is a comprehensive geographical, economic, social and cultural catalogue of the Indian subcontinent catalogued by the British Viceroy during the conquest of India. Most of the catalogues were compiled initially in the late 19th century although many have since been reissued or edited in recent times.\n\nUntil the publication of the Gazetteers, an attempt to systematically catalogue Indian geography and culture was not available, with the closest approximation being Abu'l Fazl's Ain-I-Akbari, compiled during the reign of Akbar the Great. While many of the Gazetteers are available to the public, their accuracy is a subject of much dispute among academicians and scholars. They are still not to be neglected in that they are one of the more comprehensive attempts by a third party source to catalogue the immense cultural history of the Indian subcontinent.\n"}
{"id": "2732114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2732114", "title": "Dolpo", "text": "Dolpo\n\nDolpo ( ) is a high-altitude culturally Tibetan region in the upper part of the Dolpa District of western Nepal, bordered in the north by China. Part of the region lies in Shey Phoksundo National Park. The sparse, agro-pastoral population, known as Dolpo in standard Tibetan and \"Dhol-wa\" in the local dialect, is connected to the rest of Nepal via Jufal airport, which can be reached in three days by horse. There are no precise population numbers for the region, with estimates including less than 5,000 and 18,000\n\nThe Dolpo are generally adherents of Bon, a religion whose origins predate Buddhism but whose modern form is officially accepted as a fifth school of Tibetan Buddhism. The remote region has preserved its Tibetan culture in relatively pure form, making it attractive to Westerners. Dolpa was the location for the 1999 Oscar-nominated film \"Himalaya\" and more recently for the German documentary Dolpo Tulku.\n\nIn spite of the near inaccessibility of the region and tourism restrictions for the more remote parts, Dolpa is a popular destination for trekking tourism.\n\nDolpo is geologically part of the sedimentary Tibetan-Tethys zone. It is surrounded by Himalayan mountain chains including the Dhaulagiri (). These cloud barriers cause a semi-arid climate, with reported annual precipitations of less than .\nThe region is historically divided into four valleys: Tsharka (\"good growing-place\"), Tarap (\"auspicious excellent\"), Panzang (\"abode of monks\"), and Nangkhong (\"innermost place\"). They constitute four of the seven village development committees (VDCs) that were created in 1975. The valleys south of the watershed drain into the Bheri River. The VDCs in this area are (roughly from east to west):\nThe northern valleys between the watershed and Tibet drain westward by the \"Langu River\", a tributary of the Karnali River via the \"Mugu Karnali\". The VDCs in this area are:\n\nDolpo can be roughly divided into four valleys, each of which is represented since 1975 by a village development committee (VDC): Dho (Tarap Valley), Saldang (Nankhong Valley, the most populous), Tinje (Panzang Valley), and Chharka (Tsharka Valley). There are also smaller VDCs at Bhijer, Mukot and Phoksundo.\n\nAgriculture is possible at heights of (villages of Shimen Panzang Valley and Chharka, respectively) but often requires irrigation. Apart from barley, crops include buckwheat, millet, mustard, wheat, potatoes, radishes, and spinach. Similar to transhumance in the Alps, the population migrates between villages and high-lying () summer pastures, in a lifestyle referred to as \"samadrok\" (roughly \"farming nomads\").\n\nDolpo makes up the greatest part of the area of the Dolpa District, but the district's population is concentrated in the lower southern parts, where also most of the VDCs are located.\n\nLocal products are not sufficient to guarantee survival. The Dolpo traditionally trade salt from Tibet to the lower parts of Nepal, where they maintain \"netsang\" (literally \"nesting place\") relationships, first described by Kenneth M. Bauer. According to Bauer, each family in Dolpo has netsang partners in most villages of Dolpo District, a network that facilitates travel as well as trade. In return for salt, the netsang provide grain and shelter. The netsang partners trade with each other on preferential terms, based on fictitious family relations that may last for several generations. Recent changes such as the easy availability of salt from other regions and the closed border with Tibet have put the netsang system under pressure.\n\nDolpo appears in historical records since c. 8th century. In the time from the 6th century to the 8th century the Tibetan Yarlung dynasty conquered most Tibetan-speaking territories. This seems to have caused a southward migration towards Dolpo and the peripheral areas along the upper Kali Gandaki River (Lo and Serib). In 842, Tibet fell apart, and Dolpa fell under the kingdom of Purang. Purang and Dolpa became temporarily part of the kingdom of Guge in the 10th century, but soon became separate again when King sKyid lde Nyi ma mgon divided Guge among his three sons.\nDuring the reign of the Ya-rtse king A-sog-lde around 1253 both Dolpo and Serib were lost to the ruler of Gungthang, mGon po lde. The latter then reunited both the Dolpo and Serib and classified them among one of three provinces of mNga' ris. It is also known from historical documents that Mongolian troops reached Dolpo to conquer this province when they conquered many parts of Tibet and finally handed over the power to the ruler of the Sakya period.\n\nIn the 14th century Dolpo fell under its eastern neighbor the Kingdom of Lo, which controlled the trans-Himalayan trade route through the Kali Gandaki Gorge. The Dolpo had to pay tax and travel to Lo Monthang to provide manual labor.\n\nFor some time between the 15th century (1440?) and the 16th century, Dolpo was temporarily independent and ruled by a king from the Ra nag dynasty.\n\nIn 1769, the Gorkhas conquered Kathmandu and established the Kingdom of Nepal, which would soon reach more or less the country's modern extent. In 1789, Nepal swallowed the Lo kingdom and with it Dolpo. The kingdom's attempt to wrest nominal suzerainty over Tibet from China ended in a massive Chinese intervention that left Nepal paying tribute to China.\n\nThe 1999 French-Nepalese movie Himalaya, which gives insight into the local customs, was the first Nepalese film to be nominated for an Oscar award and also a huge success in Nepal itself, drawing the country's attention to the region. Kenneth M. Bauer notes that the film's authenticity was in large part artificial, as dialogues mixed the standard Tibetan of the professional actors with the villagers' local dialects and all external influences in the region (such as clothes, Maoists and tourists) were hidden. He also describes the impact which the film had on the region as an employer.\n\nThe 2009 documentary Dolpo Tulku accompanies Sherap Sangpo (born 1981 in the Tarap Valley) on his journey from India back to his home region and his first steps as a Buddhist spiritual leader of the Dolpa. At the age of ten, he had pilgrimaged to India and after meeting the Dalai Lama had decided to become a monk. In Ka-Nying Monastery in Kathmandu he was soon recognized as the reincarnation of Lama Nyinchung and sent to Namdroling Monastery in Karnataka. After 16 years in southern India his education was finished, and in 2008 he returned to his home region to take over the responsibilities of his predecessor as a Buddhist spiritual leader of the Dolpa and in particular the monasteries in Dho-Tarap, Namgung and Saldang.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "60004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=60004", "title": "Ernest Shackleton", "text": "Ernest Shackleton\n\nSir Ernest Henry Shackleton (; 15 February 1874 – 5 January 1922) was a British polar explorer who led three British expeditions to the Antarctic. He was one of the principal figures of the period known as the Heroic Age of Antarctic Exploration.\n\nBorn in Kilkea, County Kildare, Ireland (then part of the United Kingdom), Shackleton and his Anglo-Irish family moved to Sydenham in suburban south London when he was ten. His first experience of the polar regions was as third officer on Captain Robert Falcon Scott's Discovery Expedition 1901–1904, from which he was sent home early on health grounds, after he and his companions Scott and Edward Adrian Wilson set a new southern record by marching to latitude 82°S. During the second expedition 1907–1909 he and three companions established a new record Farthest South latitude at 88°S, only 97 geographical miles (112 statute miles, 180 km) from the South Pole, the largest advance to the pole in exploration history. Also, members of his team climbed Mount Erebus, the most active Antarctic volcano. For these achievements, Shackleton was knighted by King Edward VII on his return home.\n\nAfter the race to the South Pole ended in December 1911 with Roald Amundsen's conquest, Shackleton turned his attention to the crossing of Antarctica from sea to sea, via the pole. To this end he made preparations for what became the Imperial Trans-Antarctic Expedition, 1914–17. Disaster struck this expedition when its ship, \"Endurance\", became trapped in pack ice and was slowly crushed before the shore parties could be landed. The crew escaped by camping on the sea ice until it disintegrated, then by launching the lifeboats to reach Elephant Island and ultimately the inhabited island of South Georgia, a stormy ocean voyage of 720 nautical miles and Shackleton's most famous exploit. In 1921, he returned to the Antarctic with the Shackleton–Rowett Expedition, but died of a heart attack while his ship was moored in South Georgia. At his wife's request he was buried there.\n\nAway from his expeditions, Shackleton's life was generally restless and unfulfilled. In his search for rapid pathways to wealth and security, he launched business ventures which failed to prosper, and he died heavily in debt. Upon his death, he was lauded in the press, but was thereafter largely forgotten, while the heroic reputation of his rival Scott was sustained for many decades. Later in the 20th century, Shackleton was \"rediscovered\", and rapidly became a role model for leadership as one who, in extreme circumstances, kept his team together in a survival story described by cultural historian Stephanie Barczewski as \"incredible\". In his 1956 address to the British Association, Sir Raymond Priestley, one of his contemporaries, said \"Scott for scientific method, Amundsen for speed and efficiency but when disaster strikes and all hope is gone, get down on your knees and pray for Shackleton\", paraphrasing what Apsley Cherry-Garrard had written in a preface to The Worst Journey in the World. In 2002, Shackleton was voted eleventh in a BBC poll of the 100 Greatest Britons.\n\nErnest Shackleton was born on 15 February 1874 in Kilkea near Athy, County Kildare, Ireland (then part of the United Kingdom), about from Dublin. Ernest's father was Henry Shackleton, and his mother was Henrietta Letitia Sophia Gavan. His father's family was English, originally from Yorkshire. His mother's family were Anglo-Irish and were descended from the Fitzmaurices, who had settled in counties Cork and Kerry after the Anglo-Norman invasion. Ernest was the second of their ten children and the first of two sons; the second, Frank, achieved notoriety as a suspect, later exonerated, in the 1907 theft of the Irish Crown Jewels.\n\nIn 1880, when Ernest was six, Henry Shackleton gave up his life as a landowner to study medicine at Trinity College, Dublin, moving his family into the city. Four years later, the family moved again, from Ireland to Sydenham in suburban London. Partly this was in search of better professional prospects for the newly qualified doctor, but another factor may have been unease about their Anglo-Irish ancestry, following the assassination by Irish nationalists of Lord Frederick Cavendish, the British Secretary for Ireland, in 1882.\n\nFrom early childhood, Shackleton was a voracious reader, a pursuit which sparked a passion for adventure. He was schooled by a governess until the age of eleven, when he began at Fir Lodge Preparatory School in West Hill, Dulwich, in southeast London. At the age of thirteen, he entered Dulwich College. The young Shackleton did not particularly distinguish himself as a scholar, and was said to be \"bored\" by his studies. He was quoted later as saying: \"I never learned much geography at school ... Literature, too, consisted in the dissection, the parsing, the analysing of certain passages from our great poets and prose-writers ... teachers should be very careful not to spoil [their pupils'] taste for poetry for all time by making it a task and an imposition.\" In his final term at the school he was still able to achieve fifth place in his class of thirty-one.\n\nShackleton's restlessness at school was such that he was allowed to leave at 16 and go to sea. The options available were a Royal Naval cadetship at HMS \"Britannia\", which Dr Shackleton could not afford; the mercantile marine cadet ships \"Worcester\" and \"Conway\"; or an apprenticeship \"before the mast\" on a sailing vessel. The third option was chosen. His father was able to secure him a berth with the North Western Shipping Company, aboard the square-rigged sailing ship \"Hoghton Tower\".\n\nDuring the following four years at sea, Shackleton learned his trade, visiting the far corners of the earth and forming acquaintances with a variety of people from many walks of life, learning to be at home with all kinds of men. In August 1894, he passed his examination for Second Mate and accepted a post as third officer on a tramp steamer of the Welsh Shire Line. Two years later, he had obtained his First Mate's ticket, and in 1898, he was certified as a Master Mariner, qualifying him to command a British ship anywhere in the world.\n\nIn 1898, Shackleton joined Union-Castle Line, the regular mail and passenger carrier between Southampton and Cape Town. He was, as a shipmate recorded, \"a departure from our usual type of young officer\", content with his own company though not aloof, \"spouting lines from Keats [and] Browning\", a mixture of sensitivity and aggression but, withal, sympathetic. Following the outbreak of the Boer War in 1899, Shackleton transferred to the troopship \"Tintagel Castle\" where, in March 1900, he met an army lieutenant, Cedric Longstaff, whose father Llewellyn W. Longstaff was the main financial backer of the National Antarctic Expedition then being organised in London. Shackleton used his acquaintance with the son to obtain an interview with Longstaff senior, with a view to obtaining a place on the expedition. Longstaff, impressed by Shackleton's keenness, recommended him to Sir Clements Markham, the expedition's overlord, making it clear that he wanted Shackleton accepted. On 17 February 1901, his appointment as third officer to the expedition's ship \"Discovery\" was confirmed; on 4 June he was commissioned into the Royal Navy, with the rank of sub-lieutenant in the Reserves. Although officially on leave from Union-Castle, this was in fact the end of Shackleton's Merchant Navy service.\n\nThe National Antarctic Expedition, known as the Discovery Expedition after the ship \"Discovery\", was the brainchild of Sir Clements Markham, president of the Royal Geographical Society, and had been many years in preparation. It was led by Robert Falcon Scott, a Royal Navy torpedo lieutenant lately promoted Commander, and had objectives that included scientific and geographical discovery.\n\nAlthough \"Discovery\" was not a Royal Navy unit, Scott required the crew, officers and scientific staff to submit to the conditions of the Naval Discipline Act, and the ship and expedition were run on Royal Navy lines. Shackleton accepted this, even though his own background and instincts favoured a different, more informal style of leadership. Shackleton's particular duties were listed as: \"In charge of seawater analysis. Ward-room caterer. In charge of holds, stores and provisions […] He also arranges the entertainments.\"\n\n\"Discovery\" departed London on 31 July 1901, arriving at the Antarctic coast, via Cape Town and New Zealand, on 8 January 1902. After landing, Shackleton took part in an experimental balloon flight on 4 February. He also participated, with the scientists Edward Wilson and Hartley Ferrar, in the first sledging trip from the expedition's winter quarters in McMurdo Sound, a journey which established a safe route on to the Great Ice Barrier. During the Antarctic winter of 1902, in the confines of the iced-in \"Discovery\", Shackleton edited the expedition's magazine \"The South Polar Times\".\n\nAccording to steward Clarence Hare, he was \"the most popular of the officers among the crew, being a good mixer\", though claims that this represented an unofficial rival leadership to Scott's are unsupported. Scott chose Shackleton to accompany Wilson and himself on the expedition's southern journey, a march southwards to achieve the highest possible latitude in the direction of the South Pole. This march was not a serious attempt on the Pole, although the attainment of a high latitude was of great importance to Scott, and the inclusion of Shackleton indicated a high degree of personal trust.\n\nThe party set out on 2 November 1902. The march was, Scott wrote later, \"a combination of success and failure\". A record Farthest South latitude of 82° 17' was reached, beating the previous record established in 1900 by Carsten Borchgrevink. The journey was marred by the poor performance of the dogs, whose food had become tainted, and who rapidly fell sick. All 22 dogs died during the march. The three men all suffered at times from snow blindness, frostbite and, ultimately, scurvy. On the return journey, Shackleton had by his own admission \"broken down\" and could no longer carry out his share of the work.\n\nHe later denied Scott's claim in \"The Voyage of the Discovery\", that he had been carried on the sledge. He was in a seriously weakened condition; Wilson's diary entry for 14 January reads: \"Shackleton has been anything but up to the mark, and today he is decidedly worse, very short winded and coughing constantly, with more serious symptoms that need not be detailed here but which are of no small consequence one hundred and sixty miles from the ship\".\n\nOn 4 February 1903, the party finally reached the ship. After a medical examination (which proved inconclusive), Scott decided to send Shackleton home on the relief ship \"Morning\", which had arrived in McMurdo Sound in January 1903. Scott wrote: \"He ought not to risk further hardship in his present state of health.\" There is conjecture that Scott's motives for removing him was resentment of Shackleton's popularity, and that ill-health was used as an excuse to get rid of him.\n\nYears after the death of Scott, Wilson and Shackleton, Albert Armitage, the expedition's second-in-command, claimed that there had been a falling-out on the southern journey, and that Scott had told the ship's doctor that \"if he does not go back sick he will go back in disgrace.\" There is no corroboration of Armitage's story. Shackleton and Scott stayed on friendly terms, at least until the publication of Scott's account of the southern journey in \"The Voyage of the Discovery\". Although in public they remained mutually respectful and cordial, according to biographer Roland Huntford, Shackleton's attitude to Scott turned to \"smouldering scorn and dislike\"; salvage of wounded pride required \"a return to the Antarctic and an attempt to outdo Scott\".\n\nAfter a period of convalescence in New Zealand, Shackleton returned to England via San Francisco and New York. As the first significant person to return from the Antarctic, he found that he was in demand; in particular, the Admiralty wished to consult him about its further proposals for the rescue of \"Discovery\". With Sir Clements Markham's blessing, he accepted a temporary post assisting the outfitting of the \"Terra Nova\" for the second \"Discovery\" relief operation, but turned down the offer to sail with her as chief officer. He also assisted in the equipping of the Argentinean corvette \"Uruguay\", which was being fitted out for the relief of the stranded Swedish Antarctic Expedition under Nordenskiöld. In search of more permanent employment, Shackleton applied for a regular commission in the Royal Navy, via the back-door route of the Supplementary List, but despite the sponsorship of Markham and of the president of the Royal Society, he was not successful. Instead, he became a journalist, working for the \"Royal Magazine\", but he found this unsatisfactory. He was then offered, and accepted, the secretaryship of the Royal Scottish Geographical Society (RSGS), a post which he took up on 11 January 1904. On 9 April 1904 he married Emily Dorman (1868 - 1936), with whom he had three children: Raymond, Cecily, and Edward (15 July 1911 - 22 September 1994), himself an explorer and later a politician.\n\nIn 1905, Shackleton became a shareholder in a speculative company that aimed to make a fortune transporting Russian troops home from the Far East. Despite his assurances to Emily that \"we are practically sure of the contract\", nothing came of this scheme. He also ventured into politics, unsuccessfully standing in the 1906 General Election as the Liberal Unionist Party's candidate for Dundee in opposition to Irish Home Rule. In the meantime he had taken a job with wealthy Clydeside industrialist William Beardmore (later Lord Invernairn), with a roving commission which involved interviewing prospective clients and entertaining Beardmore's business friends. Shackleton by this time was making no secret of his ambition to return to Antarctica at the head of his own expedition.\n\nBeardmore was sufficiently impressed with Shackleton to offer financial support, but other donations proved hard to come by. Nevertheless, in February 1907, Shackleton presented to the Royal Geographical Society his plans for an Antarctic expedition, the details of which, under the name British Antarctic Expedition, were published in the Royal Society's newsletter, \"Geographical Journal\". The aim was the conquest of both the geographical South Pole and the South Magnetic Pole. Shackleton then worked hard to persuade others of his wealthy friends and acquaintances to contribute, including Sir Philip Lee Brocklehurst, who subscribed £2,000 (2011 equivalent £157,000) to secure a place on the expedition; author Campbell Mackellar; and Guinness baron Lord Iveagh, whose contribution was secured less than two weeks before the departure of the expedition ship \"Nimrod\". On 4 August 1907, Shackleton was appointed a Member of the Royal Victorian Order, 4th Class (MVO; the present-day grade of Lieutenant).\n\nOn 1 January 1908, \"Nimrod\" sailed for the Antarctic from Lyttelton Harbour, New Zealand. Shackleton's original plans had envisaged using the old \"Discovery\" base in McMurdo Sound to launch his attempts on the South Pole and South Magnetic Pole. Before leaving England, he had been pressured to give an undertaking to Scott that he would not base himself in the McMurdo area, which Scott was claiming as his own field of work. Shackleton reluctantly agreed to look for winter quarters at either the Barrier Inlet (which \"Discovery\" had briefly visited in 1902) or King Edward VII Land.\n\nTo conserve coal, the ship was towed by the steamer \"Koonya\" to the Antarctic ice, after Shackleton had persuaded the New Zealand government and the Union Steamship Company to share the cost. In accordance with Shackleton's promise to Scott, the ship headed for the eastern sector of the Great Ice Barrier, arriving there on 21 January 1908. They found that the Barrier Inlet had expanded to form a large bay, in which were hundreds of whales, which led to the immediate christening of the area as the Bay of Whales. It was noted that ice conditions were unstable, precluding the establishment of a safe base there. An extended search for an anchorage at King Edward VII Land proved equally fruitless, so Shackleton was forced to break his undertaking to Scott and set sail for McMurdo Sound, a decision which, according to second officer Arthur Harbord, was \"dictated by common sense\" in view of the difficulties of ice pressure, coal shortage and the lack of any nearer known base.\n\n\"Nimrod\" arrived at McMurdo Sound on 29 January, but was stopped by ice north of \"Discovery\"'s old base at Hut Point. After considerable weather delays, Shackleton's base was eventually established at Cape Royds, about north of Hut Point. The party was in high spirits, despite the difficult conditions; Shackleton's ability to communicate with each man kept the party happy and focused.\n\nThe \"Great Southern Journey\", as Frank Wild called it, began on 29 October 1908. On 9 January 1909, Shackleton and three companions (Wild, Eric Marshall and Jameson Adams) reached a new Farthest South latitude of 88° 23' S, a point only from the Pole. En route the South Pole party discovered the Beardmore Glacier (named after Shackleton's patron) and became the first persons to see and travel on the South Polar Plateau. Their return journey to McMurdo Sound was a race against starvation, on half-rations for much of the way. At one point, Shackleton gave his one biscuit allotted for the day to the ailing Frank Wild, who wrote in his diary: \"All the money that was ever minted would not have bought that biscuit and the remembrance of that sacrifice will never leave me\". They arrived at Hut Point just in time to catch the ship.\n\nThe expedition's other main accomplishments included the first ascent of Mount Erebus, and the discovery of the approximate location of the South Magnetic Pole, reached on 16 January 1909 by Edgeworth David, Douglas Mawson, and Alistair Mackay. Shackleton returned to the United Kingdom as a hero, and soon afterwards published his expedition account, \"Heart of the Antarctic\". Emily Shackleton later recorded: \"The only comment he made to me about not reaching the Pole was 'a live donkey is better than a dead lion, isn't it?' and I said 'Yes darling, as far as I am concerned'\".\n\nIn 1910, Shackleton made a series of three recordings describing the expedition using an Edison Phonograph.\n\nSeveral mostly intact cases of whisky and brandy left behind in 1909 were recovered in 2010, for analysis by a distilling company. A revival of the vintage (and since lost) formula for the particular brands found has been offered for sale with a portion of the proceeds to benefit the New Zealand Antarctic Heritage Trust which discovered the lost spirits.\n\nOn Shackleton's return home, public honours were quickly forthcoming. King Edward VII received him on 10 July and raised him to a Commander of the Royal Victorian Order (CVO); in the King's Birthday Honours list in November, he was made a knight, becoming Sir Ernest Shackleton. He was honoured by the Royal Geographical Society, who awarded him a Gold Medal; a proposal that the medal be smaller than that earlier awarded to Captain Scott was not acted on. All the members of the Nimrod Expedition shore party received silver Polar Medals on 23 November, with Shackleton receiving a clasp to his earlier medal. Shackleton was also appointed a Younger Brother of Trinity House, a significant honour for British mariners.\n\nBesides the official honours, Shackleton's Antarctic feats were greeted in Britain with great enthusiasm. Proposing a toast to the explorer at a lunch given in Shackleton's honour by the Royal Societies Club, Lord Halsbury, a former Lord Chancellor, said: \"When one remembers what he had gone through, one does not believe in the supposed degeneration of the British race. One does not believe that we have lost all sense of admiration for courage [and] endurance\". The heroism was also claimed by Ireland: the Dublin \"Evening Telegraph's\" headline read \"South Pole Almost Reached By An Irishman\", while the \"Dublin Express\" spoke of the \"qualities that were his heritage as an Irishman\". Shackleton's fellow-explorers expressed their admiration; Roald Amundsen wrote, in a letter to RGS Secretary John Scott Keltie, that \"the English nation has by this deed of Shackleton's won a victory that can never be surpassed\". Fridtjof Nansen sent an effusive private letter to Emily Shackleton, praising the \"unique expedition which has been such a complete success in every respect\". The reality was that the expedition had left Shackleton deeply in debt, unable to meet the financial guarantees he had given to backers. Despite his efforts, it required government action, in the form of a grant of £20,000 (2008: £1.5 million) to clear the most pressing obligations. It is likely that many debts were not pressed and were written off.\n\nIn the period immediately after his return, Shackleton engaged in a strenuous schedule of public appearances, lectures and social engagements. He then sought to cash in on his celebrity by making a fortune in the business world. Among the ventures which he hoped to promote were a tobacco company, a scheme for selling to collectors postage stamps overprinted \"King Edward VII Land\" (based on Shackleton's appointment as Antarctic postmaster by the New Zealand authorities), and the development of a Hungarian mining concession he had acquired near the city of Nagybanya, now part of Romania. None of these enterprises prospered, and his main source of income was his earnings from lecture tours. He still harboured thoughts of returning south, even though in September 1910, having recently moved with his family to Sheringham in Norfolk, he wrote to Emily: \"I am never again going South and I have thought it all out and my place is at home now\". He had been in discussions with Douglas Mawson about a scientific expedition to the Antarctic coast between Cape Adare and Gaussberg, and had written to the RGS about this in February 1910.\n\nAny future resumption by Shackleton of the quest for the South Pole depended on the results of Scott's Terra Nova Expedition, which left from Cardiff in July 1910. By early 1912, the world was aware that the pole had been conquered, by the Norwegian Roald Amundsen. The fate of Scott's expedition was not then known. Shackleton's mind turned to a project that had been announced, and then abandoned, by the Scottish explorer William Speirs Bruce, for a continental crossing, from a landing in the Weddell Sea, via the South Pole to McMurdo Sound. Bruce, who had failed to acquire financial backing, was happy that Shackleton should adopt his plans, which were similar to those being followed by the German explorer Wilhelm Filchner. Filchner had left Bremerhaven in May 1911; in December 1912, the news arrived from South Georgia that his expedition had failed. The transcontinental journey, in Shackleton's words, was the \"one great object of Antarctic journeyings\" remaining, now open to him.\n\nShackleton published details of his new expedition, grandly titled the \"Imperial Trans-Antarctic Expedition\", early in 1914. Two ships would be employed; \"Endurance\" would carry the main party into the Weddell Sea, aiming for Vahsel Bay from where a team of six, led by Shackleton, would begin the crossing of the continent. Meanwhile, a second ship, the \"Aurora\", would take a supporting party under Captain Aeneas Mackintosh to McMurdo Sound on the opposite side of the continent. This party would then lay supply depots across the Great Ice Barrier as far as the Beardmore Glacier, these depots holding the food and fuel that would enable Shackleton's party to complete their journey of across the continent.\n\nShackleton used his considerable fund-raising skills, and the expedition was financed largely by private donations, although the British government gave £10,000 (about £680,000 in 2008 terms). Scottish jute magnate Sir James Caird gave £24,000, Midlands industrialist Frank Dudley Docker gave £10,000 and tobacco heiress Janet Stancomb-Wills gave an undisclosed but reportedly \"generous\" sum. Public interest in the expedition was considerable; Shackleton received more than 5,000 applications to join it. His interviewing and selection methods sometimes seemed eccentric; believing that character and temperament were as important as technical ability, he asked unconventional questions. Thus physicist Reginald James was asked if he could sing; others were accepted on sight because Shackleton liked the look of them, or after the briefest of interrogations. Shackleton also loosened some traditional hierarchies, expecting all men, including the scientists, to take their share of ship's chores. He ultimately selected a crew of 56, twenty-eight on each ship.\n\nDespite the outbreak of the First World War on 3 August 1914, \"Endurance\" was directed by the First Lord of the Admiralty, Winston Churchill, to \"proceed\", and left British waters on 8 August. Shackleton delayed his own departure until 27 September, meeting the ship in Buenos Aires.\n\nWhile Shackleton led the expedition, Captain F. Worsley commanded the \"Endurance\" and Lieutenant J. Stenhouse the \"Aurora\".\n\nOn the Endurance, the second in command was the experienced explorer Frank Wild. The meteorologist was Captain L. Hussey (also an able banjo player). Dr. McIlroy was head of the scientific staff, which included Wordie. Alexander Macklin was one of two surgeons and also in charge of keeping the 70 dogs healthy. Tom Crean was in more immediate charge as head dog-handler. Other crew included James, Hussey, Greenstreet, a carpenter Henry McNeish, and Clark (the biologist). Of later independent fame was the photographer Frank Hurley.\nThere was a (male) cat named Mrs Chippy that belonged to the carpenter Henry McNeish. Mrs Chippy was shot when the Endurance sank, due to the belief it would not have survived the ordeal that followed.\n\n\"Endurance\" departed from South Georgia for the Weddell Sea on 5 December, heading for Vahsel Bay. As the ship moved southward navigating in ice, first year ice was encountered, which slowed progress. Deep in the Weddell Sea, conditions gradually grew worse until, on 19 January 1915, \"Endurance\" became frozen fast in an ice floe. On 24 February, realising that she would be trapped until the following spring, Shackleton ordered the abandonment of ship's routine and her conversion to a winter station. She drifted slowly northward with the ice through the following months. When spring arrived in September, the breaking of the ice and its later movements put extreme pressures on the ship's hull.\n\nUntil this point, Shackleton had hoped that the ship, when released from the ice, could work her way back towards Vahsel Bay. On 24 October water began pouring in. After a few days, with the position at 69° 5' S, 51° 30' W, Shackleton gave the order to abandon ship, saying, \"She's going down!\"; and men, provisions and equipment were transferred to camps on the ice. On 21 November 1915, the wreck finally slipped beneath the surface.\n\nFor almost two months, Shackleton and his party camped on a large, flat floe, hoping that it would drift towards Paulet Island, approximately away, where it was known that stores were cached. After failed attempts to march across the ice to this island, Shackleton decided to set up another more permanent camp (Patience Camp) on another floe, and trust to the drift of the ice to take them towards a safe landing. By 17 March, their ice camp was within of Paulet Island but, separated by impassable ice, they were unable to reach it. On 9 April, their ice floe broke into two, and Shackleton ordered the crew into the lifeboats, to head for the nearest land. After five harrowing days at sea, the exhausted men landed their three lifeboats at Elephant Island, from where the Endurance sank. This was the first time they had stood on solid ground for 497 days. Shackleton's concern for his men was such that he gave his mittens to photographer Frank Hurley, who had lost his during the boat journey. Shackleton suffered frostbitten fingers as a result.\n\nElephant Island was an inhospitable place, far from any shipping routes; rescue by means of chance discovery was very unlikely. Consequently, Shackleton decided to risk an open-boat journey to the 720-nautical-mile-distant South Georgia whaling stations, where he knew help was available. The strongest of the tiny lifeboats, christened \"James Caird\" after the expedition's chief sponsor, was chosen for the trip. Ship's carpenter Harry McNish made various improvements, including raising the sides, strengthening the keel, building a makeshift deck of wood and canvas, and sealing the work with oil paint and seal blood. Shackleton chose five companions for the journey: Frank Worsley, \"Endurance\"'s captain, who would be responsible for navigation; Tom Crean, who had \"begged to go\"; two strong sailors in John Vincent and Timothy McCarthy, and finally the carpenter McNish. Shackleton had clashed with McNish during the time when the party was stranded on the ice, but, while he did not forgive the carpenter's earlier insubordination, Shackleton recognised his value for this particular job.\n\nShackleton refused to pack supplies for more than four weeks, knowing that if they did not reach South Georgia within that time, the boat and its crew would be lost. The \"James Caird\" was launched on 24 April 1916; during the next fifteen days, it sailed through the waters of the southern ocean, at the mercy of the stormy seas, in constant peril of capsizing. On 8 May, thanks to Worsley's navigational skills, the cliffs of South Georgia came into sight, but hurricane-force winds prevented the possibility of landing. The party was forced to ride out the storm offshore, in constant danger of being dashed against the rocks. They later learned that the same hurricane had sunk a 500-ton steamer bound for South Georgia from Buenos Aires. On the following day, they were able, finally, to land on the unoccupied southern shore. After a period of rest and recuperation, rather than risk putting to sea again to reach the whaling stations on the northern coast, Shackleton decided to attempt a land crossing of the island. Although it is likely that Norwegian whalers had previously crossed at other points on ski, no one had attempted this particular route before. For their journey, the survivors were only equipped with boots they had pushed screws into to act as climbing boots, a carpenter's adze, and 50 feet of rope. Leaving McNish, Vincent and McCarthy at the landing point on South Georgia, Shackleton travelled with Worsley and Crean over extremely dangerous mountainous terrain for 36 hours to reach the whaling station at Stromness on 20 May.\n\nThe next successful crossing of South Georgia was in October 1955, by the British explorer Duncan Carse, who travelled much of the same route as Shackleton's party. In tribute to their achievement, he wrote: \"I do not know how they did it, except that they had to — three men of the heroic age of Antarctic exploration with 50 feet of rope between them — and a carpenter's adze\".\n\nShackleton immediately sent a boat to pick up the three men from the other side of South Georgia while he set to work to organise the rescue of the Elephant Island men. His first three attempts were foiled by sea ice, which blocked the approaches to the island. He appealed to the Chilean government, which offered the use of \"Yelcho\", a small seagoing tug from its navy. \"Yelcho\", commanded by Captain Luis Pardo, and the British whaler \"SS Southern Sky\" reached Elephant Island on 30 August 1916, at which point the men had been isolated there for four and a half months, and Shackleton quickly evacuated all 22 men. The \"Yelcho\" took the crew first to Punta Arenas and after some days to Valparaiso in Chile where crowds warmly welcomed them back to civilisation.\n\nThere remained the men of the Ross Sea Party, who were stranded at Cape Evans in McMurdo Sound, after \"Aurora\" had been blown from its anchorage and driven out to sea, unable to return. The ship, after a drift of many months, had returned to New Zealand. Shackleton travelled there to join \"Aurora\", and sailed with her to the rescue of the Ross Sea party. This group, despite many hardships, had carried out its depot-laying mission to the full, but three lives had been lost, including that of its commander, Aeneas Mackintosh.\n\nWhen Shackleton returned to England in May 1917, Europe was in the midst of the First World War. Suffering from a heart condition, made worse by the fatigue of his arduous journeys, and too old to be conscripted, he nevertheless volunteered for the army. Repeatedly requesting posting to the front in France, he was by now drinking heavily. In October 1917, he was sent to Buenos Aires to boost British propaganda in South America. Unqualified as a diplomat, he was unsuccessful in persuading Argentina and Chile to enter the war on the Allied side. He returned home in April 1918.\n\nShackleton was then briefly involved in a mission to Spitzbergen to establish a British presence there under guise of a mining operation. On the way he was taken ill in Tromsø, possibly with a heart attack. Appointment to a military expedition to Murmansk obliged him to return home again, before departing for northern Russia.\n\nShackleton was specially appointed a temporary major on 22 July 1918. From October 1918 he served with the North Russia Expeditionary Force in the Russian Civil War under the command of Major-General (later Field Marshal Lord) Ironside, with the role of advising on the equipment and training of British forces in arctic conditions. For his \"valuable services rendered in connection with Military Operations in North Russia\" Shackleton was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 1919 King's Birthday Honours, and was also mentioned in despatches by General Ironside. Shackleton returned to England in early March 1919, full of plans for the economic development of Northern Russia. In the midst of seeking capital, his plans foundered when Northern Russia fell to Bolshevik control. He was finally discharged from the army in October 1919, retaining his rank of major.\n\nShackleton returned to the lecture circuit and published his own account of the \"Endurance\" expedition, \"South\", in December 1919. In 1920, tired of the lecture circuit, Shackleton began to consider the possibility of a last expedition. He thought seriously of going to the Beaufort Sea area of the Arctic, a largely unexplored region, and raised some interest in this idea from the Canadian government. With funds supplied by former schoolfriend John Quiller Rowett, he acquired a 125-ton Norwegian sealer, named \"Foca I\" which he renamed \"Quest\". The plan changed; the destination became the Antarctic, and the project was defined by Shackleton as an \"oceanographic and sub-antarctic expedition\". The goals of the venture were imprecise, but a circumnavigation of the Antarctic continent and investigation of some \"lost\" sub-Antarctic islands, such as Tuanaki, were mentioned as objectives.\n\nRowett agreed to finance the entire expedition, which became known as the Shackleton-Rowett Expedition. On 16 September 1921, Shackleton recorded a farewell address on a sound-on-film system created by Harry Grindell Matthews, who claimed it was the first \"talking picture\" ever made. The expedition left England on 24 September 1921.\n\nAlthough some of his former crew members had not received all their pay from the \"Endurance\" expedition, many of them signed on with their former \"Boss\". When the party arrived in Rio de Janeiro, Shackleton suffered a suspected heart attack. He refused a proper medical examination, so \"Quest\" continued south, and on 4 January 1922, arrived at South Georgia.\n\nIn the early hours of the next morning, Shackleton summoned the expedition's physician, Alexander Macklin, to his cabin, complaining of back pains and other discomfort. According to Macklin's own account, Macklin told him he had been overdoing things and should try to \"lead a more regular life\", to which Shackleton answered: \"You are always wanting me to give up things, what is it I ought to give up?\" \"Chiefly alcohol, Boss,\" replied Macklin. A few moments later, at 2:50 a.m. on 5 January 1922, Shackleton suffered a fatal heart attack.\n\nMacklin, who conducted the postmortem, concluded that the cause of death was atheroma of the coronary arteries exacerbated by \"overstrain during a period of debility\". Leonard Hussey, a veteran of the Imperial Trans-Antarctic expedition, offered to accompany the body back to Britain; while he was in Montevideo en route to England, a message was received from Emily Shackleton asking that her husband be buried in South Georgia. Hussey returned to South Georgia with the body on the steamer \"Woodville\", and on 5 March 1922, Shackleton was buried in the Grytviken cemetery, South Georgia, after a short service in the Lutheran church, with Edward Binnie officiating. Macklin wrote in his diary: \"I think this is as 'the Boss' would have had it himself, standing lonely in an island far from civilisation, surrounded by stormy tempestuous seas, & in the vicinity of one of his greatest exploits.\"\n\nOn 27 November 2011, the ashes of Frank Wild were interred on the right-hand side of Shackleton's grave site in Grytviken. The inscription on the rough-hewn granite block set to mark the spot reads \"Frank Wild 1873–1939, Shackleton's right-hand man.\"\n\nStudy of diaries kept by Eric Marshall, medical officer to the 190709 expedition, suggests that Shackleton suffered from an atrial septal defect (\"hole in the heart\"), a congenital heart defect, which may have been a cause of his health problems.\n\nBefore the return of Shackleton's body to South Georgia, there was a memorial service held for him with full military honours at Holy Trinity Church, Montevideo, and on 2 March a service was held at St Paul's Cathedral, London, at which the King and other members of the royal family were represented. Within a year the first biography, \"The Life of Sir Ernest Shackleton\", by Hugh Robert Mill, was published. This book, as well as being a tribute to the explorer, was a practical effort to assist his family; Shackleton died some £40,000 in debt (2011: £1.6 million). A further initiative was the establishment of a Shackleton Memorial Fund, which was used to assist the education of his children and the support of his mother.\n\nDuring the ensuing decades Shackleton's status as a polar hero was generally outshone by that of Captain Scott, whose polar party had by 1925 been commemorated on more than 30 monuments in Britain alone, including stained glass windows, statues, busts and memorial tablets. A statue of Shackleton designed by Charles Sargeant Jagger was unveiled at the Royal Geographical Society's Kensington headquarters in 1932, but public memorials to Shackleton were relatively few. Likewise, the printed word saw much more attention given to Scott–a forty-page booklet on Shackleton, published in 1943 by OUP as part of a \"Great Exploits\" series, is described by cultural historian Stephanie Barczewski as \"a lone example of a popular literary treatment of Shackleton in a sea of similar treatments of Scott\". This disparity continued into the 1950s.\n\nIn 1959 Alfred Lansing's \"Endurance: Shackleton's Incredible Voyage\" was published. This was the first of a number of books about Shackleton that began to appear, showing him in a highly positive light. At the same time, attitudes towards Scott were gradually changing as a more critical note was sounded in the literature, culminating in Roland Huntford's 1979 treatment of him in his dual biography \"Scott and Amundsen\", described by Barczewski as a \"devastating attack\". This negative picture of Scott became accepted as the popular truth as the kind of heroism that Scott represented fell victim to the cultural shifts of the late twentieth century. Within a few years he was thoroughly overtaken in public esteem by Shackleton, whose popularity surged while that of his erstwhile rival declined. In 2002, in a BBC poll conducted to determine the \"100 Greatest Britons\", Shackleton was ranked 11th while Scott was down in 54th place.\n\nIn 2001 Margaret Morrell and Stephanie Capparell presented Shackleton as a model for corporate leadership in their book \"Shackleton's Way: Leadership Lessons from the Great Antarctic Explorer\". They wrote: \"Shackleton resonates with executives in today's business world. His people-centred approach to leadership can be a guide to anyone in a position of authority\". Other management writers were soon following this lead, using Shackleton as an exemplar for bringing order from chaos. The Centre for Leadership Studies at the University of Exeter (United Kingdom) offers a course on Shackleton, who also features in the management education programmes of several American universities. In Boston a \"Shackleton School\" was set up on \"Outward Bound\" principles, with the motto \"The Journey is Everything\". Shackleton has also been cited as a model leader by the US Navy, and in a textbook on Congressional leadership, Peter L Steinke calls Shackleton the archetype of the \"nonanxious leader\" whose \"calm, reflective demeanor becomes the antibiotic warning of the toxicity of reactive behaviour\". In 2001, the Athy Heritage Centre-Museum, Athy, County Kildare, Ireland, established the Ernest Shackleton Autumn School, which is held annually, to honour the memory of Ernest Shackleton.\nShackleton's death marked the end of the Heroic Age of Antarctic Exploration, a period of discovery characterised by journeys of geographical and scientific exploration in a largely unknown continent without any of the benefits of modern travel methods or radio communication. In the preface to his 1922 book \"The Worst Journey in the World\", Apsley Cherry-Garrard, one of Scott's team on the Terra Nova Expedition, wrote: \"For a joint scientific and geographical piece of organisation, give me Scott; for a Winter Journey, Wilson; for a dash to the Pole and nothing else, Amundsen: and if I am in the devil of a hole and want to get out of it, give me Shackleton every time\".\n\nIn 1993 Trevor Potts re-enacted the Boat Journey from Elephant Island to South Georgia in honour of Sir Ernest Shackleton, totally unsupported, in a replica of the \"James Caird\". In 2002, Channel 4 produced \"Shackleton\", a TV serial depicting the 1914 expedition with Kenneth Branagh in the title role. Broadcast in the United States on the A&E Network, it won two Emmy Awards.\n\nIn a Christie's auction in London in 2011, a biscuit that Shackleton gave \"a starving fellow traveller\" on the 1907–09 Nimrod expedition sold for £1250. That same year, on the date of what would have been Shackleton's 137th birthday, Google honored him with a Google Doodle.\n\nIn January 2013, a joint British-Australian team set out to duplicate Shackleton's 1916 trip across the Southern Ocean. Led by explorer and environmental scientist Tim Jarvis, the team was assembled at the request of Alexandra Shackleton, Sir Ernest's granddaughter, who felt the trip would honour her grandfather's legacy. In October 2015, Shackleton's decorations and medals were auctioned; the sale raised £585,000. This team became the first to replicate the so-called \"double crossing\"; sailing from Elephant Island to South Georgia, and the crossing of the South Georgian mountains from King Haakon Bay (where Shackleton had landed nearly 100 years prior) to Stromness. The expedition very carefully matched legacy conditions, using a replica of the \"James Caird\" (named for the project's patron: the \"Alexandra Shackleton\"), period clothing (by Burberry), replica rations (both in calorific content and rough constitution), period navigational aids, and a Thomas Mercer chronometer just as Shackleton had used. This expedition was made into a documentary film, screening as \"Chasing Shackleton\" on PBS in the United States, and \"\" elsewhere on the Discovery Channel.\n\nIn 2016 a statue of Shackleton by Mark Richards was erected in Athy, sponsored by Kildare County Council. In 2017, the musical play \"Ernest Shackleton Loves Me\" by Val Vigoda and Joe DiPietro made its debut in New York City at the Tony Kiser Theater, an Off-Broadway venue. Blended with a parallel story of a struggling composer, the play retells the adventure of \"Endurance\" in detail, incorporating photos and videos of the journey.\n\n\n\nPrinted sources\n\nOnline sources\n\n"}
{"id": "32038844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32038844", "title": "Falaleu", "text": "Falaleu\n\nFalaleu is a village in Wallis and Futuna. It is located in Hahake District on the east coast of Wallis Island. Its population according to the 2008 census was 626 people.\n"}
{"id": "6464030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6464030", "title": "Gallows Hill", "text": "Gallows Hill\n\nGallows Hill is a name given to a hill serving, or formerly serving, as the site of a gallows. Such places include:\n\n\n\n\nGallows Hill may also refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "59011375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59011375", "title": "Geology of Sint Maarten", "text": "Geology of Sint Maarten\n\nThe geology of Sint Maarten consists of andesite tuff and tuff breccia from the middle and late Eocene, intruded by hypabyssal basalt, quartz diorite and younger andesite. Volcanic activity led to metamorphism of many rocks and the tilting and folding of the tuff series. Limestone and marl was later unconformably deposited atop the eroded volcanic rocks as volcanic activity shifted elsewhere.\n"}
{"id": "1769340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1769340", "title": "Gerard de Jode", "text": "Gerard de Jode\n\nGerard de Jode (1509–1591) was a Netherlandish cartographer, engraver and publisher who lived and worked in Antwerp during the 16th century. He was born in Nijmegen and died in Antwerp. In 1547 he was admitted to the Guild of St. Luke, and began his work as a publisher/printseller. He often printed the works of other cartographers including Gastaldi's map of the world in 1555, Jacob van Deventer's map of Brabant in 1558, Ortelius' eight sheet map of the world in 1564, and maps by Bartholomeus Musinus and Fernando Alvares Seco.\n\nHis most outstanding work is a two volume atlas \"Speculum Orbis Terrarum\" published in 1578. It was aimed at competing with another atlas, Theatrum Orbis Terrarum by Ortelius, published eight years earlier in 1570. The competing atlas had become so popular by the time he finally published his own atlas however, that his version never sold well, despite his outstanding reputation. Only about a dozen examples have survived.\n\nGerard de Jode made plans for another enlarged edition, which was uncompleted at his death in 1591. His son Cornelis de Jode took over and published the Speculum Orbis Terrae in 1593. This never sold well either. Scholars consider many of de Jode's maps to be superior to those of Ortelius, both in detail and style.\n\nIn constructing his world map, , published in 1593, Gerard de Jode was strongly influenced by Guillaume Postel’s 1581 polar planisphère, \"Polo aptata Nova Charta Universi\".\n\nGerard de Jode was probably the maker of a globe made in Antwerp that also owes much to the cosmographic ideas of Guillaume Postel.\n\n\"Speculum Orbis Terrarum\" was once the object of an attempted theft from the Yale University Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library, by rare map thief E. Forbes Smiley III. Smiley was caught and arrested after a library staff member found his X-Acto knife on the floor.\n"}
{"id": "3607546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3607546", "title": "Great capes", "text": "Great capes\n\nIn sailing, the great capes are three major capes of the continents in the Southern Ocean — Africa's Cape of Good Hope, Australia's Cape Leeuwin, and South America's Cape Horn.\n\nThe traditional clipper route followed the winds of the roaring forties south of the great capes. Due to the significant hazards they presented to shipping, the great capes became significant landmarks in ocean voyaging. The great capes became common points of reference, though other nearby capes (next section) may have been more southern or shared in notability.\n\nToday, the great capes feature prominently in ocean yacht racing, with many races and individual sailors following the clipper route. A circumnavigation via the great capes is considered to be a noteworthy achievement. Sailor Joshua Slocum completed the first solo circumnavigation of the world in 1895–98, and the Joshua Slocum Society International presented its Level 3 Golden Circle Award to sailors who solo circumnavigated passing the great capes.\n\nIn his book \"The Long Way\", Bernard Moitessier tries to express the significance to a sailor of the great capes:\n\nOther southern capes mark significant points of passage through the southern oceans. The five southernmost capes refer to the five geographically southern mainland (or large island) points on the earth.\n\nSailors circumnavigating the world have used these five southernmost capes as goals on their route.\n\n"}
{"id": "18834692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18834692", "title": "Gülablı", "text": "Gülablı\n\nGülablı (, also spelled Gyulably and Gyulaply) or Vazgenashen () is a village in the province of Martuni in the \"de facto\" independent Republic of Artsakh and a \"de jure\" part of the Agdam Rayon of the Republic of Azerbaijan. Its population as of 2005 stood at 226.\n\nOn September 12, 2011, an UAV was reportedly shot down by the air defense arm of the Nagorno-Karabakh Defense Army (NKDA) over the airspace of the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic, near Vazgenashen, previously known as Gulably. Preliminary investigations carried out by the NKDA have determined the model to be a Hermes 450 type. \n\nThe Azerbaijani Ministry of Defense initially denied losing any drones. But several days later the state news agency APA, citing a Turkish tabloid newspaper, came out with an elaborate explanation that the UAV was supposedly operated by Israel and making reconnaissance flights from Armenia to spy on Iran.\n"}
{"id": "40649109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40649109", "title": "Hugh Murray (geographer)", "text": "Hugh Murray (geographer)\n\nHugh Murray FRSE FRGS (1779–1846) was a Scottish geographer and author. He is often referred to as Hew Murray.\n\nHe was the younger son of Rev Matthew Murray FRSE (1735–1791), minister of North Berwick, and his wife, Anne Hill (d.1803) daughter of Ref John Hill, of St. Andrews, and sister of Henry David Hill, professor at St. Andrews, and of Rev George Hill. \n\nMurray entered the Edinburgh excise office as a clerk. \n\nOn 22 January 1816 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. His proposers were Rev Thomas Brown, John Leslie and John Playfair. At this time he was living at 24 Stockbridge, Edinburgh.\nHe was for a time editor of the \"Scots Magazine\", and was a fellow of the Royal Geographical Society of London. His connection with Archibald Constable's \"Edinburgh Gazetteer\" caused him to figure in the Tory squib, written by James Hogg and others, called \"Translation from an Ancient Chaldee MS.\", which appeared in \"Blackwood's Magazine\" for October 1817.\n\nMurray died after a short illness, while on a visit to London, in Wardrobe Place, Doctors' Commons, on 4 March 1846.\n\nHis grandfather Rev George Murray (d. 1757), was minister of North Berwick, as was his elder brother, George (1772–1822), from 1795 till his death.\n\nMurray published \"The Swiss Emigrants\", a tale (anon.), in 1804; two philosophical treatises (\"The Morality of Fiction\", 1805, and \"Enquiries respecting the Character of Nations\", 1808); and another romance, \"Corasmin, or the Minister\", in 1814.\n\nMurray's major work was the \"Encyclopædia of Geography, a Description of the Earth, physical, statistical, civil, and political\" (London, 1834). He wrote the geographical part; the other sections were astronomy (William Wallace), botany (William Jackson Hooker), geology (Robert Jameson) and zoology (William Swainson). A supplement was published in 1843. The work contained 82 maps and over a thousand woodcuts. It was well received, and an American edition (1843) in three volumes was edited by Thomas Gamaliel Bradford.\n\nMurray's other main publications included:\n\n\nAfter his death were published:\n\n\nTo the \"Transactions\" of the Royal Society of Edinburgh Murray contributed, among other papers, one, in 1818, \"On the Ancient Geography of Central and Eastern Asia, with Illustrations derived from Recent Discoveries in the North of India\". In 1817 he enlarged and completed John Leyden's \"Historical Account of Discoveries and Travels in Africa\".’ Similar works by him on Asia (3 vols. Edinburgh, 1820) and North America (London, 1829) followed.\n\nMurray also contributed to the press, and in the \"Edinburgh Cabinet Library\" there appeared compilations by him on the history or geography of: the \"Polar Seas\" (1830), \"British India\" (1832), \"China\" (1836), \"British America\" (1839), \"Africa\" (1830), and \"The United States\" (1844). Some of these volumes had contributions on natural history, by Robert Jameson, Thomas Stewart Traill, James Nicol, and others.\n\n"}
{"id": "3204546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3204546", "title": "ISO 3166-2:LR", "text": "ISO 3166-2:LR\n\nISO 3166-2:LR is the entry for Liberia in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Liberia, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for 15 counties.\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Liberia. The second part is two letters.\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\nThe following changes to the entry have been announced in newsletters by the ISO 3166/MA since the first publication of ISO 3166-2 in 1998:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29871639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29871639", "title": "Index of Thailand-related articles K to N", "text": "Index of Thailand-related articles K to N\n\nThis is a list of articles related to Thailand, sorted by alphabetical order. It represents the majority of articles contained within the . For a list of key articles arranged by topic, see Outline of Thailand.\n\nThose interested in the subject can monitor changes to the pages listed here by clicking on the link in the sidebar.\n\n"}
{"id": "45602544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45602544", "title": "Journalists of the Balkan Wars", "text": "Journalists of the Balkan Wars\n\nThis page lists the known war correspondents, war photographers, war artists, and war cinematographers who were active during the First and Second Balkan Wars.\n\nThe First Balkan War lasted from October 1912 to May 1913, and comprised actions of the Balkan League (Serbia, Greece, Montenegro and Bulgaria) against the Ottoman Empire. Montenegro declared war on 8 October and Bulgaria, Serbia and Greece followed suit on 17 October. The war concluded with signing of the Treaty of London on 30 May 1913. The Second Balkan War broke out when Bulgaria, dissatisfied with its share of the spoils of the First Balkan War, attacked its former allies, Serbia and Greece, on 29 June 1913. The war ended with the signing of the Treaty of Bucharest by the three powers on 10 August 1913.\n\nAn estimated 200–300 journalists from around the world covered the war in the Balkans in November 1912.\n\nThe official censorship bureau was established at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Athens. Each journalist had to make an application to proceed to the front, and enclose a photograph, together with a certificate from their country’s Ministry in Athens. The Greek Government then issued the journalist an identity card which identified the paper he or she represented, their photograph, and a copy of their signature. The journalist was given a spade-shaped blue-and-white badge the size of a small plate to pin on their chest, on which the letters \"ΕΦ\" were worked, being the initial letters of the Greek word for \"Newspaper\" (Εφημερίδα).\n\nThe day after the Battle of Sarantaporo, journalists were allowed to proceed to the Epirus front.\n\nFollowing the outbreak of hostilities in 1912, almost 150 foreign correspondents rushed to Bulgaria, which was soon identified as the center of all major military developments. The Bulgarian government was successful in identifying and controlling the journalists. The authorities required each journalist to carry a red identification card that included his or her photograph and signature, to wear a red brassard that had the letters \"BK\" and a number, and to carry a document informing the various persons who the journalist was and what the Army Headquarters would allow them to do.\n\nForty-five journalists from all around the world assembled in Belgrade to cover the First Balkan War. Foreign journalists, unless cleared by the General Staff, were not permitted in forward positions for the duration of hostilities.\n\nThe First Balkan War provided the most extensive testing ground before the First World War for the new technology of large-scale filming, with more than 20 camera operators travelling to the region.\n"}
{"id": "42915505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42915505", "title": "Kanalla Falls", "text": "Kanalla Falls\n\nThe Kanalla Falls, a waterfall on the Edeowie Creek, is located in the Flinders Ranges in the Australian state of South Australia.\n\nSituated within the Flinders Ranges National Park approximately north of the village of and north of Adelaide, the waterfalls descend from below St Mary Peak and a range of other mountains at an elevation of above sea level; falling in the range of into the Wilpena Pound valley below.\n\n"}
{"id": "27671305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27671305", "title": "List of Governors of the Falkland Islands", "text": "List of Governors of the Falkland Islands\n\nThe following is a list of Governors of the Falkland Islands. Historically, several countries have had leaders on the islands with varying titles and degrees of power.\n\n"}
{"id": "990306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=990306", "title": "List of Irish theatres and theatre companies", "text": "List of Irish theatres and theatre companies\n\nThis is a list of Irish theatres and theatre companies past and present. It includes organizations of both the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland.\n"}
{"id": "13336602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13336602", "title": "List of Mock the Week episodes", "text": "List of Mock the Week episodes\n\n\"Mock the Week\" is a satirical panel show that airs on BBC Two. The first episode was broadcast on 5 June 2005. As of 5 October 2018, 158 regular episodes and 28 clip shows (eleven of which were Christmas/New Year specials) have been aired across seventeen series; 186 episodes in total (not including the 2011 Comic Relief special or \"Mock the Week Looks Back At...\").\n\nAll episodes are approximately 30 minutes long. The original lineup was Dara Ó Briain as host, with Hugh Dennis, Frankie Boyle and one guest panellist on one side, and Rory Bremner and two guest panellists on the other. Bremner left after series 2 and was replaced by Andy Parsons, and Russell Howard became a regular panellist the following series. Boyle left after series 7 and was replaced by a series of guests until Chris Addison took his seat permanently in the second half of series 10. Howard was absent for the last episodes of series 9 and first half of series 10 due to other filming commitments, and was confirmed to have left the panel in August 2011. Addison was not present for the second half of series 12 due to other commitments, and subsequently did not return for series 13, with his seat once again becoming a guest slot. In October 2015, Parsons announced he was quitting after ten years.\n\nThe coloured backgrounds denote the result of each of the shows:\n\nViewing figures are from BARB. \n\nDespite not being a serious competition, points are awarded at the end of each round and a winner is announced at the conclusion of each episode. Below is the number of series and episode wins by each of the regular panellists. As Andy Parsons took over from Rory Bremner, both of their scores are combined and shown individually. Despite Chris Addison, Frankie Boyle and Russell Howard all being regulars at certain times they are not listed in the headers, instead their wins are combined with the panellist who was seen as their captain during their tenures.\n"}
{"id": "54567682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54567682", "title": "List of Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards received by Netflix", "text": "List of Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards received by Netflix\n"}
{"id": "33561064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33561064", "title": "List of birds of King Island (Tasmania)", "text": "List of birds of King Island (Tasmania)\n\nThis is a complete list of bird species and subspecies that have been recorded on King Island, Tasmania, Australia.\n"}
{"id": "22497159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22497159", "title": "List of diplomatic missions in Djibouti", "text": "List of diplomatic missions in Djibouti\n\nThis is a list of diplomatic missions in Djibouti. The capital Djibouti currently hosts 18 embassies.\n\nIn Addis Ababa except as noted\n\n"}
{"id": "42668554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42668554", "title": "List of ecoregions in Hungary", "text": "List of ecoregions in Hungary\n\nAccording to the World Wide Fund for Nature, the territory of Hungary almost exclusively covered by \nPannonian mixed forests.\n\nSmaller northern areas are covered by Carpathian montane conifer forests\n\nAccording to the Freshwater Ecoregions Of the World Hungary is covered by the following ecoregions:\n"}
{"id": "40742170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40742170", "title": "List of newspapers in Bermuda", "text": "List of newspapers in Bermuda\n\nThis is a list of newspapers in Bermuda.\n\n\nThe following were previously published:\n\n"}
{"id": "14973237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14973237", "title": "List of online map services", "text": "List of online map services\n\nOnline maps can be basically divided by the covered area (global or local) and by the representation of this area (classic drawn or orthophoto).\n\nThese maps cover the world, but may have insufficient details in some areas.\n\nLocal maps cover only part of the earth surface, and may be more detailed than the global ones.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1223955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1223955", "title": "List of political parties in Martinique", "text": "List of political parties in Martinique\n\nMartinique is not a separate territory but a region of France. France has a multi-party system, with numerous parties in which no one party often has a chance of gaining power alone, and parties must work with each other to form coalition governments.\n\nFor further details see the article: \"Politics of France\".\n\nMost of the French political parties are active in Martinique.\n\nIn addition there are a number of regional parties:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7120237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7120237", "title": "List of volcanoes in Saint Kitts and Nevis", "text": "List of volcanoes in Saint Kitts and Nevis\n\nA list of active and extinct volcanoes in the Federation of Saint Kitts and Nevis, located in the Caribbean. \n\nThe two islands of Saint Kitts and Nevis are located in the Leeward Islands chain of the Lesser Antilles archipelago.\n\n"}
{"id": "55504114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55504114", "title": "Maya Golden Landscape", "text": "Maya Golden Landscape\n\nThe Maya Golden Landscape is an area in Belize of approximately 275,000 hectares consisting of protected areas, agriculture, private lands and many small communities that is under the management of the Ya'axché Conservation Trust in Toledo District.Ya'axché Conservation TrustThe Landscape area encompasses the Bladen Nature Reserve,Colombia River Forest Reserve, Cockscomb Basin Wildlife Sanctuary,Deep River Forest River Reserve,Port Honduras Marine Reserve, along with commercial and subsistence farmland.. Most of the area is dominated with various types of broadleaf forests which varies with topography, soil type and the disturbance history (which are disturbances caused by hurricanes or agriculture). One disturbance that affect the area, as well, is fires caused by agricultural farming due to the slash and burn practice.\n\nInitiated by a group of local Mayan leaders in 1997, the Maya Golden Landscape was then strengthened by the support of Fauna and Flora International. The Ya’axché Conservation Trust has been directing this corridor along with the assistance of the management of the individual protected arreas within the Maya Golden Landscape.\n\nEncompassing four terrestrial protected areas, the Maya Golden Landscape most evident topographical feature is th Maya Mountains that recurr along the Columbia Forest Reserve, Cockscomb Basin Wildlife Sanctuary,Deep River Forest River Reserve and Bladen Nature Reserves. Other topographical features includes karst limestone hills, caves, sinkholes and draining basins at the base of the Maya Mountains which feed surrounding water bodies and watersheds. \n\nThe terrestrial component of the Maya Golden Landscape comprises habitats of spectacular diversity and variety.The karst limestone hills of the Maya Mountains down to the Caribbean Sea are evidence of possible stream action wwithn the hills. Habitats to be encountered in the terrestrial component of the landscape includes\ntropical rainforests, pine savannas, coastal wetlands and mangrove forests.\n\nThe Marine component of this landscape is most recognizable for its protected barrier reefs. Recognised under the Meso-American Barrier Reef System, the Barrier Reef is a keystone agent in maintaining and protecting the marine environment for endangered marine species. \n\nThe first fires documented are from the period from the years 1998 to 2001. The fires are usually ignited during the dry season, which is generally from March to May, as means of preparation for crops and may often escape into surrounding farms and nearby forests, especially if the season and conditions adequate. The areas damaged by this fires appears insignificant in the story map; however, they do matter. According to the statistics 550.521 hectares were affected by the fires in 1998, 453.43 hectares in 1999, 388.26 hectares in 2000 and 6.39 hectares in 2001 . \n\nDuring the period of 2002-2007, approximately 11,907 hectares of forest as damaged by fire. A major contributor to the spike in fire damage was Hurricane Iris which passed directly through the area in October 2001 leaving dead vegetation in its path. This dead vegetation dried out during the dry season and covered the forest floor. This dried dead vegetation served as fuel for the fires in 2002, which occurred next to a large savanna area, and 2003, in the hills behind Golden Stream. Other fires areas that burnt in 2003 burnt again in 2005, but the burnt area extended beyond the boundary of 2003 fire scar .\n\nThe fires from the period of the years 2008-2015 damaged an estimated 5078 hectares of forest. In 2008 significant large fire scars were detected. This fire scars were in the same area which was affected by fires in 2003 and 2005, but this time the fire extended further beyond these previous fire scar boundaries and further into the forest. There were also fires that burnt the karstic ridges west of Golden Stream and Medina Bank which had already been burnt by fires in 2003; however, this fires didn’t extend beyond the 2003 fire scars areas. In 2013, numerous fire scars were detected in the severe dry season of that year. Many large fires were detected to had escaped form agricultural areas. Some areas that had been previously burnt were re-burnt. A large fire scar was present on the map and it seemed that it probably escaped from an isolated farm in the forest waste of Indian Creek. Another fire escaped from the South-East of Tambram. The fires that occurred in 2013 show that much more of the forest/agricultural area is susceptible to burning in very severe dry seasons, compared with an average or mild dry season . \nThe Maya Golden Landscape in southern Belize is one of the country’s largest areas of intact tropical broadleaf forest. The Landscape itself is produced by a mosaic of protected areas placed together in order to establish a wildlife corridor that eases the movement of wildlife within included areas. With over 250 species of birds, 93 species of mammals,\nand 92 species of reptiles and amphibians in one of the major protected areas located within it, the landscape serves as a biodiversity conservation hotspot. Part of the conservation achievements of the Maya Golden Landscape includes the internationally recognized Jaguar reserve at the Cockscomb Basin Wildlife Sanctuary\n"}
{"id": "23659329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23659329", "title": "National parks of Taiwan", "text": "National parks of Taiwan\n\nNational parks of Taiwan are protected spaces for their nature, wildlife, and history in its current jurisdiction. Currently there are nine national parks in Taiwan, all are under the administration of the Ministry of the Interior. These national parks covers . The total land area constitutes around 8.6% of the entire land area of the country.\n\nThe first national parks were established in 1937, when Taiwan was under Japanese rule. After World War II, the voice for protecting the natural environment was suspended due to the autocratic rule and the Martial law in Taiwan. The National Park Law was passed in 1972 and finally the first new national parks were reestablished in 1984.\n\nNational parks should not be confused with national scenic areas. The national scenic areas are administrated by the Tourism Bureau of the Ministry of Transportation and Communications. There are also different philosophies that govern the development of the two types of areas. For a national park, the emphasis is on the preservation of natural and cultural resources, and development for human utilization is definitely a secondary priority.\n\nThe first in Taiwan were appointed in December 27, 1937 by Governor-General . This was when Taiwan was under Japanese rule, thus these three national parks are designated to be the national parks of the Empire of Japan.\nThe administration of these national parks was no longer in force when Japan withdrew from Taiwan in 1945 after World War II. There were no national parks in Taiwan since then until the new national parks law in the 1980s. The first new established national parks at that time were on similar places to the Japanese establishments.\n\nCurrently there are nine(9) national parks in Taiwan. There is also one(1) national natural park, which is designed for areas with fewer resources compare to a full national park.\n\nFive other national parks were proposed but the plans of formation were halted due to opposition:\n\nAnother national nature park was proposed but the plans of formation were halted due to opposition:\n\n"}
{"id": "92982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=92982", "title": "Paradise", "text": "Paradise\n\nIn religion, paradise is a place of exceptional happiness and delight. Paradisiacal notions are often laden with pastoral imagery, and may be cosmogonical or eschatological or both, often compared to the miseries of human civilization: in paradise there is only peace, prosperity, and happiness. Paradise is a place of contentment, a land of luxury and fulfillment. Paradise is often described as a \"higher place\", the holiest place, in contrast to this world, or underworlds such as Hell.\n\nIn eschatological contexts, paradise is imagined as an abode of the virtuous dead. In Christian and Islamic understanding, Heaven is a paradisiacal relief. In old Egyptian beliefs, the otherworld is Aaru, the reed-fields of ideal hunting and fishing grounds where the dead lived after judgment. For the Celts, it was the Fortunate Isle of Mag Mell. For the classical Greeks, the Elysian fields was a paradisiacal land of plenty where the heroic and righteous dead hoped to spend eternity. The Vedic Indians held that the physical body was destroyed by fire but recreated and reunited in the Third Heaven in a state of bliss. In the Zoroastrian Avesta, the \"Best Existence\" and the \"House of Song\" are places of the righteous dead. On the other hand, in cosmological contexts 'paradise' describes the world before it was tainted by evil.\n\nThe concept is a theme in art and literature, particularly of the pre-Enlightenment era, a well-known representative of which is John Milton's \"Paradise Lost\".\n\nThe word \"paradise\" entered English from the French \"paradis\", inherited from the Latin \"paradisus\", from Greek \"parádeisos\" (παράδεισος), from an Old Iranian \"*paridayda-\" \"walled enclosure\". By the 6th/5th century BCE, the Old Iranian word had been adopted as Assyrian \"pardesu\" \"domain\". It subsequently came to indicate the expansive walled gardens of the First Persian Empire. The term eventually appeared in Greek as \"parádeisos\" \"park for animals\" in the \"Anabasis\" of the early 4th century BCE Athenian Xenophon. Aramaic \"pardaysa\" similarly reflects \"royal park\".\n\nHebrew פַּרְדֵּס \"pardes\", \"orchard\", appears thrice in the Tanakh; in the Song of Solomon (), Ecclesiastes () and Nehemiah (). In those contexts it could be interpreted as an \"orchard\" or a \"fruit garden\".\nIn the Septuagint (3rd–1st centuries BCE), Greek παράδεισος \"parádeisos\" was used to translate both Hebrew פרדס \"pardes\" and Hebrew גן \"\", \"garden\" (e.g. (, ): it is from this usage that the use of \"paradise\" to refer to the Garden of Eden derives. The same usage also appears in Arabic and in the Quran as \"firdaws\" فردوس.\n\nThe word's etymology is ultimately derived from a PIE root \"*dheigʷ\" \"to stick and set up\".\nIt is reflected in Avestan as 𐬞𐬀𐬌𐬭𐬌⸱𐬛𐬀𐬉𐬰𐬀 \"pairi-daêza-\". \nThe literal meaning of this Eastern Old Iranian language word is \"walled (enclosure)\", from \"pairi-\" 'around' (cognate with Greek περί, English peri- of identical meaning) and \"-diz\" \"to make, form (a wall), build\" (cognate with Greek τεῖχος 'wall'). The word is not attested in other Old Iranian languages, though hypothetical roots in these languages may be reconstructed, for example as in Old Persian \"*paridayda-\".\n\nThe idea of a walled enclosure was not preserved in most Iranian usage, and generally came to refer to a plantation or other cultivated area, not necessarily walled. For example, the Old Iranian word survives as \"Pardis\" in New Persian as well as its derivative \"pālīz\" (or \"jālīz\"), which denotes a vegetable patch.\n\nThe word \"pardes\" does not appear before the post-Exilic period (post-538 BCE); it occurs in the Song of Songs 4:13, Ecclesiastes 2:5, and Nehemiah 2:8, in each case meaning \"park\" or \"garden\", the original Persian meaning of the word, where it describes to the royal parks of Cyrus the Great by Xenophon in Anabasis.\n\nLater in Second Temple era Judaism \"paradise\" came to be associated with the Garden of Eden and prophesies of restoration of Eden, and transferred to heaven. The Septuagint uses the word around 30 times, both of Eden, (Gen.2:7 etc.) and of Eden restored (Ezek. 28:13, 36:35 etc.). In the Apocalypse of Moses, Adam and Eve are expelled from paradise (instead of Eden) after having been tricked by the serpent. Later after the death of Adam, the Archangel Michael carries the body of Adam to be buried in Paradise, which is in the Third Heaven.\n\nThe New Testament use and understanding of paradise parallels that of contemporary Judaism. The word is used three times in the New Testament writings:\n\nIn Rabbinical Judaism, the word 'Pardes' recurs, but less often in the Second Temple context of Eden or restored Eden. A well-known reference is in the Pardes story, where the word may allude to mystic philosophy.\n\nThe Zohar gives the word a mystical interpretation, and associates it with the four kinds of Biblical exegesis: \"peshat\" (literal meaning), \"remez\" (allusion), \"derash\" (anagogical), and \"sod\" (mystic). The initial letters of those four words then form – \"p(a)rd(e)s\", which was in turn felt to represent the fourfold interpretation of the Torah (in which \"sod\" – the mystical interpretation – ranks highest).\n\nIn the 2nd century AD, Irenaeus distinguished paradise from heaven. In \"Against Heresies\", he wrote that only those deemed worthy would inherit a home in heaven, while others would enjoy paradise, and the rest live in the restored Jerusalem (which was mostly a ruin after the Jewish–Roman wars but was rebuilt beginning with Constantine the Great in the 4th century). Origen likewise distinguished paradise from heaven, describing paradise as the earthly \"school\" for souls of the righteous dead, preparing them for their ascent through the celestial spheres to heaven.\n\nMany early Christians identified Abraham's bosom with paradise, where the souls of the righteous go until the resurrection; others were inconsistent in their identification of paradise, such as St. Augustine, whose views varied.\n\nIn Luke 23:43, Jesus has a conversation with one of those crucified with him, who asks, “Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom\". Jesus answers him, “Truly I tell you, today you will be with me in paradise”. This has often been interpreted to mean that on that same day the thief and Jesus would enter the intermediate resting place of the dead who were waiting for the Resurrection. Divergent views on paradise, and when one enters it, may have been responsible for a punctuation difference in Luke; for example, the two early Syriac versions translate Luke 23:43 differently. The Curetonian Gospels read \"Today I tell you that you will be with me in paradise\", whereas the Sinaitic Palimpsest reads \"I tell you, today you will be with me in paradise\". Likewise the two earliest Greek codices with punctuation disagree: Codex Vaticanus has a pause mark (a single dot on the baseline) in the original ink equidistant between 'today' and the following word (with no later corrections and no dot before \"today\"), whereas Codex Alexandrinus has the \"today in paradise\" reading. In addition, an adverb of time is never used in the nearly 100 other places in the Gospels where Jesus uses the phrase, \"Truly I say to you\".\n\nIn Christian art, Fra Angelico's \"Last Judgement\" painting shows Paradise on its left side. There is a tree of life (and another tree) and a circle dance of liberated souls. In the middle is a hole. In Muslim art it similarly indicates the presence of the Prophet or divine beings. It visually says, \"Those here cannot be depicted\".\n\nJehovah's Witnesses believe, from their interpretation of the Book of Genesis, that God's original purpose was, and is, to have the earth filled with the offspring of Adam and Eve as caretakers of a global paradise. However, Adam and Eve rebelled against God's sovereignty and were banished from the Garden of Eden, driven out of paradise into toil and misery.\n\nJehovah's Witnesses believe that disobedient and wicked people will be destroyed by Christ at Armageddon and those obedient to Christ will live eternally in a restored earthly paradise. Joining the survivors will be the resurrected righteous and unrighteous people who died prior to Armageddon. The latter are brought back because they paid for their sins by their death and/or because they lacked opportunity to learn of Jehovah's requirements before dying. These will be judged on the basis of their post-resurrection obedience to instructions revealed in new \"scrolls\". They believe that resurrection of the dead to paradise earth is made possible by Christ's blood and the ransom sacrifice. This provision does not apply to those whom Christ as Judge deems to have sinned against God's holy spirit.\n\nOne of Jesus' statements before he died were the words to a man hanging alongside him, \"you will be with me in Paradise.\" The New World Translation places a comma after the word 'today', dividing it into two separate phrases, \"I tell you today\" and \"you will be with me in Paradise\". This differs from standard translations of this verse as \"I tell you today you will be with me in Paradise\". Based on scriptures such as Matthew 12:40, 27:63, Mark 8:31 and 9:31, Witnesses believe Jesus' expectation that he would be bodily resurrected after three days precluded his being in paradise on the same day that he died.\n\nIn Latter Day Saint theology, paradise usually refers to the spirit world, the place where spirits dwell following death and awaiting the resurrection. In that context, \"paradise\" is the state of the righteous after death. In contrast, the wicked and those who have not yet learned the gospel of Jesus Christ await the resurrection in spirit prison. After the universal resurrection, all persons will be assigned to a particular kingdom or degree of glory. This may also be termed \"paradise\".\n\nIn the Quran, Heaven is denoted as \"Jannah\" (garden), with the highest level being called \"Firdaus\", i.e. Paradise. It is used instead of Heaven to describe the ultimate pleasurable place after death, accessible by those who pray, donate to charity, read the Quran, believe in: God, the angels, his revealed books, his prophets and messengers, the Day of Judgement and the afterlife, and follow God's will in their life. Heaven in Islam is used to describe skies in the literal sense and metaphorically to refer to the universe. In Islam, the bounties and beauty of Heaven are immense, so much so that they are beyond the abilities of mankind’s worldly mind to comprehend.\nThere are eight doors of Jannah. These are eight grades of Jannah: \nJannatul Mava is in the lowest, Jannat-ul-Adan is the middle and Jannat-ul-Firdous is the highest.\n\nImam Bukhari has also recorded the tradition in which the Prophet said, 'When you ask from Allah, ask Him for Al Firdaus, for it is the middle of Paradise and it is the highest place and from it the rivers of Paradise flow.' (Bukhari, Ahmad, Baihaqi) In this tradition, it is evident that Al Firdaus is the highest place in Paradise, yet, it is stated that it is in the middle. While giving an explanation of this description of Al Firdaus, the great scholar, Ibn Hibban states, 'Al Firdaus being in the middle of Paradise means that with respect to the width and breadth of Paradise, Al Firdaus is in the middle. And with respect to being 'the highest place in Paradise', it refers to it being on a height.' This explanation is in agreement to the explanation which has been given by Abu Hurairah (r.a.) who said that 'Al Firdaus is a mountain in Paradise from which the rivers flow.' (Tafseer Al Qurtubi Vol. 12 pg. 100)\n\nThe Quran also gave a warning that not all Muslims or even the believers will assuredly be permitted to enter Jannah except those who had struggled in the name of God and tested from God's trials as faced by the messengers of God or ancient prophets:\n\nOr do you think that you will enter Jannah while such (trial) has not yet come to you as came to those who passed on before you? They were touched by poverty and hardship and were shaken until (even their) messenger and those who believed with him said, \"When is the help of Allah?\" Unquestionably, the help of Allah is near. — Qur'an, chapter 2 (Al-Baqarah), ayah 214 (\"Saheeh International\")\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51807646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51807646", "title": "Peninsula", "text": "Peninsula\n\nA peninsula ( from ' \"almost” and ' \"island\") is a piece of land surrounded by water on the majority of its border while being connected to a mainland from which it extends. The surrounding water is usually understood to be continuous, though not necessarily named as a single body of water. Peninsulas are not always named as such; one can also be a headland, cape, island promontory, bill, point, or spit. A point is generally considered a tapering piece of land projecting into a body of water that is less prominent than a cape. A river which courses through a very tight meander is also sometimes said to form a \"peninsula\" within the (almost closed) loop of water. In English, the plural versions of peninsula are \"peninsulas\" and, less commonly, \"peninsulae\".\n\n"}
{"id": "40036027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40036027", "title": "Ritual landscape", "text": "Ritual landscape\n\nRitual landscapes are extensive archaeological tracts that were seemingly dedicated to ceremonial purposes in the Neolithic and early Bronze Ages (c. 3500-1800 BC). The term emerged in the early 1980s in British archaeology and was contrasted with more conventional studies of monument sites concerned with dating, classification, and political divisions. These landscapes are often associated with origin myths, ancestors, homes of spiritual essences, or locales where mythical or historical events occurred while the landscape features include social memory and the preservation of the myths, histories, trusts, and the belongings of a people. Aside from a place of origin and mythology, ritual landscapes were also considered places of protection and renewal.\n\nMany ritual landscapes were gradually built around the two earliest classes of Neolithic communal monuments, known as long barrows and causewayed enclosures. In Britain, for instance, the Avebury ritual site featured a giant, flat-topped barrow called Silbury Hill, which is considered the largest artificial mound in prehistoric Europe. The evidence of contemporary settlement within these landscapes is often sparse or absent altogether; conversely, non-utilitarian structures and artifacts are typically abundant. In other cultures, the ritual landscape is strongly influenced by the environment. This is demonstrated in the case of Tibet, the verticality of the environment dominated the constructions of the ritual landscape and features therein such as structures and tombs, which were built to resemble the mountains. \n\nRitual landscapes went out of use relatively abruptly around 1500 BC and were replaced by smaller-scale shrines, which were often located near rivers, marshes, and springs. These smaller shrines usually feature offerings of food and metalwork and continued to be created and used into Roman and even Saxon times. Today they are often described as Celtic.\n"}
{"id": "2415407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2415407", "title": "Robert L. Ramsay (academic)", "text": "Robert L. Ramsay (academic)\n\nRobert Lee Ramsay (December 14, 1880 – December 14, 1953) was a professor of English at the University of Missouri from 1907 to 1952. Starting in the mid-1920s, Ramsay started to develop a dictionary of Missouri placenames, creating a methodology and overseeing graduate research on the topic. Due to widespread availability of the book, \"Our Storehouse of Missouri Place Names\", Ramsay is the best known authority of the subject in Missouri. His research is used for official citations by the United States Board on Geographic Names. Ramsay was a founding member of the American Name Society.\n\n"}
{"id": "18694635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18694635", "title": "Salient (geography)", "text": "Salient (geography)\n\nA salient is an elongated protrusion of a geopolitical entity, such as a subnational entity or a sovereign state.\n\nWhile similar to a peninsula in shape, a salient is not surrounded by water on three sides. Instead, it has a land border on at least two sides and extends out from the larger geographical body of the administrative unit.\n\nIn American English the term panhandle is often used to describe a relatively long and narrow salient, such as the westernmost extension of Oklahoma. Less common descriptors include chimney (if protruding northward, as a chimney does from a roof, as with the northernmost extremity of West Virginia) and bootheel (if protruding southward, as the heel underneath a boot, such as the Missouri Bootheel).\n\nThe term \"salient\" is derived from military salients. The term \"panhandle\" derives from the analogous part of a cooking pan, and its use is generally confined to the United States.\n\nThe salient shape is the result of arbitrarily drawn international or subnational boundaries, although the location of some administrative borders takes into account other considerations such as economic ties or topography.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe following locations are salients in of nations.\n\n\n\n This definition includes the following counties: Bay, Calhoun, Escambia, Franklin, Gadsden, Gulf, Holmes, Jackson, Jefferson, Leon, Liberty, Madison, Okaloosa, Santa Rosa, Taylor, Wakulla, Walton, and Washington.\n\nMany people in the Pacific Northwest refer to the extreme northern section of Idaho's panhandle as \"The Chimney\", due to its resemblance to a chimney when viewed on maps.\n\nAlthough Utah, like Nebraska, has a protrusion from its otherwise straight border, it is not usually considered a panhandle, as half of the Salt Lake City metropolitan area, the most populous region in the state and the home of the state's capital, is located in the region. Likewise, though New York has a southern protrusion that is more conspicuous than e.g. the Connecticut, Texas and Nebraska Panhandles, this is never considered a panhandle since it accommodates the most densely populated parts of the state. (In New York's case, its irregular shape leaves certain regions up for debate. From a different perspective, that region is part of the New York mainland while a western salient juts out.) Thus, the concept of a panhandle may not be purely geographic but may also have a demographic component.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "286469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=286469", "title": "Scramble for Africa", "text": "Scramble for Africa\n\nThe Scramble for Africa was the occupation, division, and colonization of African territory by European powers during the period of New Imperialism, between 1881 and 1914. It is also called the Partition of Africa and by some the Conquest of Africa. In 1870, only 10 percent of Africa was under formal European control; by 1914 it had increased to almost 90 percent of the continent, with only Ethiopia (Abyssinia) and Liberia still being independent. There were multiple motivations including the quest for national prestige, tensions between pairs of European powers, religious missionary zeal and internal African native politics. \n\nThe Berlin Conference of 1884, which regulated European colonisation and trade in Africa, is usually referred to as the ultimate point of the scramble for Africa. Consequent to the political and economic rivalries among the European empires in the last quarter of the 19th century, the partitioning, or splitting up of Africa was how the Europeans avoided warring amongst themselves over Africa. The later years of the 19th century saw the transition from \"informal imperialism\" by military influence and economic dominance, to direct rule, bringing about colonial imperialism.\n\nBy 1840 European powers had established small trading posts along the coast, but seldom moved inland. In the middle decades of the 19th century, European explorers had mapped areas of East Africa and Central Africa. \n\nEven as late as the 1870s, European states still controlled only ten percent of the African continent, with all their territories located near the coast. The most important holdings were Angola and Mozambique, held by Portugal; the Cape Colony, held by the United Kingdom; and Algeria, held by France. By 1914, only Ethiopia and Liberia remained independent of European control.\n\nTechnological advances facilitated European expansion overseas. Industrialisation brought about rapid advancements in transportation and communication, especially in the forms of steamships, railways and telegraphs. Medical advances also played an important role, especially medicines for tropical diseases. The development of quinine, an effective treatment for malaria, made vast expanses of the tropics more accessible for Europeans.\n\nSub-Saharan Africa, one of the last regions of the world largely untouched by \"informal imperialism\", was also attractive to Europe's ruling elites for economic, political and social reasons. During a time when Britain's balance of trade showed a growing deficit, with shrinking and increasingly protectionist continental markets due to the Long Depression (1873–96), Africa offered Britain, Germany, France, and other countries an open market that would garner them a trade surplus: a market that bought more from the colonial power than it sold overall.\n\nSurplus capital was often more profitably invested overseas, where cheap materials, limited competition, and abundant raw materials made a greater premium possible. Another inducement for imperialism arose from the demand for raw materials, especially copper, cotton, rubber, palm oil, cocoa, diamonds, tea, and tin, to which European consumers had grown accustomed and upon which European industry had grown dependent. Additionally, Britain wanted the southern and eastern coasts of Africa for stopover ports on the route to Asia and its empire in India. However, in Africa – excluding the area which became the Union of South Africa in 1910 – the amount of capital investment by Europeans was relatively small, compared to other continents. Consequently, the companies involved in tropical African commerce were relatively small, apart from Cecil Rhodes's De Beers Mining Company. Rhodes had carved out Rhodesia for himself; Léopold II of Belgium later, and with considerable brutality, exploited the Congo Free State.\n\nThese events might detract from the pro-imperialist arguments of colonial lobbyists such as the \"Alldeutscher Verband\", Francesco Crispi and Jules Ferry, who argued that sheltered overseas markets in Africa would solve the problems of low prices and over-production caused by shrinking continental markets. John A. Hobson argued in \"Imperialism\" that this shrinking of continental markets was a key factor of the global \"New Imperialism\" period. William Easterly, however, disagrees with the link made between capitalism and imperialism, arguing that colonialism is used mostly to promote state-led development rather than \"corporate\" development. He has stated that \"imperialism is not so clearly linked to capitalism and the free markets... historically there has been a closer link between colonialism/imperialism and state-led approaches to development.\"\n\nThe rivalry between Britain, France, Germany, and the other European powers accounts for a large part of the colonization.\n\nWhile tropical Africa was not a large zone of investment, other overseas regions were. The vast interior between Egypt and the gold and diamond-rich southern Africa had strategic value in securing the flow of overseas trade. Britain was under political pressure to secure lucrative markets against encroaching rivals in China and its eastern colonies, most notably India, Malaya, Australia and New Zealand. Thus, it was crucial to secure the key waterway between East and West—the Suez Canal. However, a theory that Britain sought to annex East Africa during the 1880 onwards, out of geostrategic concerns connected to Egypt (especially the Suez Canal), has been challenged by historians such as John Darwin (1997) and Jonas F. Gjersø (2015).\n\nThe scramble for African territory also reflected concern for the acquisition of military and naval bases, for strategic purposes and the exercise of power. The growing navies, and new ships driven by steam power, required coaling stations and ports for maintenance. Defense bases were also needed for the protection of sea routes and communication lines, particularly of expensive and vital international waterways such as the Suez Canal.\n\nColonies were also seen as assets in \"balance of power\" negotiations, useful as items of exchange at times of international bargaining. Colonies with large native populations were also a source of military power; Britain and France used large numbers of British Indian and North African soldiers, respectively, in many of their colonial wars (and would do so again in the coming World Wars). In the age of nationalism there was pressure for a nation to acquire an empire as a status symbol; the idea of \"greatness\" became linked with the sense of duty underlying many nations' strategies.\n\nIn the early 1880s, Pierre Savorgnan de Brazza was exploring the Kingdom of Kongo for France, at the same time Henry Morton Stanley explored it on behalf of Léopold II of Belgium, who would have it as his personal Congo Free State (see section below). France occupied Tunisia in May 1881, which may have convinced Italy to join the German-Austrian Dual Alliance in 1882, thus forming the Triple Alliance. The same year, Britain occupied Egypt (hitherto an autonomous state owing nominal fealty to the Ottoman Empire), which ruled over Sudan and parts of Chad, Eritrea, and Somalia. In 1884, Germany declared Togoland, the Cameroons and South West Africa to be under its protection; and France occupied Guinea. French West Africa (AOF) was founded in 1895, and French Equatorial Africa in 1910.\n\nGermany was hardly a colonial power before the New Imperialism period, but would eagerly participate in this race. Fragmented in various states, Germany was only unified under Prussia's rule after the 1866 Battle of Königgrätz and the 1870 Franco-Prussian War. A rising industrial power close on the heels of Britain, Germany began its world expansion in the 1880s. After isolating France by the Dual Alliance with Austria-Hungary and then the 1882 Triple Alliance with Italy, Chancellor Otto von Bismarck proposed the 1884–85 Berlin Conference, which set the rules of effective control of a foreign territory. \"Weltpolitik\" (world policy) was the foreign policy adopted by Kaiser Wilhelm II in 1890, with the aim of transforming Germany into a global power through aggressive diplomacy, the acquisition of overseas colonies, and the development of a large navy.\n\nSome Germans, claiming themselves of Friedrich List's thought, advocated expansion in the Philippines and Timor; others proposed to set themselves up in Formosa (modern Taiwan), etc. At the end of the 1870s, these isolated voices began to be relayed by a real imperialist policy, backed by mercantilist thesis. In 1881, Hübbe-Schleiden, a lawyer, published \"Deutsche Kolonisation\", according to which the \"development of national consciousness demanded an independent overseas policy\". Pan-Germanism was thus linked to the young nation's imperialist drives. In the beginning of the 1880s, the \"Deutscher Kolonialverein\" was created, and got its own magazine in 1884, the \"Kolonialzeitung\". This colonial lobby was also relayed by the nationalist \"Alldeutscher Verband\". Generally, Bismarck was opposed to widespread German colonialism, but he had to resign at the insistence of the new German Emperor Wilhelm II on 18 March 1890. Wilhelm II instead adopted a very aggressive policy of colonisation and colonial expansion.\n\nGermany's expansionism would lead to the Tirpitz Plan, implemented by Admiral von Tirpitz, who would also champion the various Fleet Acts starting in 1898, thus engaging in an arms race with Britain. By 1914, they had given Germany the second-largest naval force in the world (roughly three-fifths the size of the Royal Navy). According to von Tirpitz, this aggressive naval policy was supported by the National Liberal Party rather than by the conservatives, implying that imperialism was supported by the rising middle classes.\n\nGermany became the third-largest colonial power in Africa. Nearly all of its overall empire of 2.6 million square kilometres and 14 million colonial subjects in 1914 was found in its African possessions of Southwest Africa, Togoland, the Cameroons, and Tanganyika. Following the 1904 \"Entente cordiale\" between France and the British Empire, Germany tried to isolate France in 1905 with the First Moroccan Crisis. This led to the 1905 Algeciras Conference, in which France's influence on Morocco was compensated by the exchange of other territories, and then to the Agadir Crisis in 1911. Along with the 1898 Fashoda Incident between France and Britain, this succession of international crises reveals the bitterness of the struggle between the various imperialist nations, which ultimately led to World War I.\n\nItaly took possession of parts of Eritrea in 1870 and 1882. Following its defeat in the First Italo–Ethiopian War (1895–1896), it acquired Italian Somaliland in 1889–90 and the whole of Eritrea (1899). In 1911, it engaged in a war with the Ottoman Empire, in which it acquired Tripolitania and Cyrenaica, that together formed what became known as Italian Libya. In 1919 Enrico Corradini—who fully supported the war, and later merged his group in the early fascist party (PNF)—developed the concept of \"Proletarian Nationalism\", supposed to legitimise Italy's imperialism by a mixture of socialism with nationalism:\n\nThe Second Italo-Abyssinian War (1935–36), ordered by the Fascist Benito Mussolini, would actually be one of the last colonial wars (that is, intended to colonise a foreign country, as opposed to wars of national liberation), occupying Ethiopia—which had remained the last independent African territory, apart from Liberia. Italian Ethiopia became a part of the Italian East Africa.\n\nDavid Livingstone's explorations, carried on by Henry Morton Stanley, excited imaginations with Stanley's grandiose ideas for colonisation; but these found little support owing to the problems and scale of action required, except from Léopold II of Belgium, who in 1876 had organised the International African Association (the Congo Society). From 1869 to 1874, Stanley was secretly sent by Léopold II to the Congo region, where he made treaties with several African chiefs along the Congo River and by 1882 had sufficient territory to form the basis of the Congo Free State. Léopold II personally owned the colony from 1885 and used it as a source of ivory and rubber.\n\nWhile Stanley was exploring Congo on behalf of Léopold II of Belgium, the Franco-Italian marine officer Pierre de Brazza travelled into the western Congo basin and raised the French flag over the newly founded Brazzaville in 1881, thus occupying today's Republic of the Congo. Portugal, which also claimed the area due to old treaties with the native Kongo Empire, made a treaty with Britain on 26 February 1884 to block off the Congo Society's access to the Atlantic.\n\nBy 1890 the Congo Free State had consolidated its control of its territory between Leopoldville and Stanleyville, and was looking to push south down the Lualaba River from Stanleyville. At the same time, the British South Africa Company of Cecil Rhodes was expanding north from the Limpopo River, sending the Pioneer Column (guided by Frederick Selous) through Matabeleland, and starting a colony in Mashonaland.\n\nTo the west, in the land where their expansions would meet, was Katanga, site of the Yeke Kingdom of Msiri. Msiri was the most militarily powerful ruler in the area, and traded large quantities of copper, ivory and slaves — and rumors of gold reached European ears. The scramble for Katanga was a prime example of the period. Rhodes and the BSAC sent two expeditions to Msiri in 1890 led by Alfred Sharpe, who was rebuffed, and Joseph Thomson, who failed to reach Katanga. Leopold sent four CFS expeditions. First, the Le Marinel Expedition could only extract a vaguely worded letter. The Delcommune Expedition was rebuffed. The well-armed Stairs Expedition was given orders to take Katanga with or without Msiri's consent. Msiri refused, was shot, and the expedition cut off his head and stuck it on a pole as a \"barbaric lesson\" to the people. The Bia Expedition finished the job of establishing an administration of sorts and a \"police presence\" in Katanga. Thus, the half million square kilometers of Katanga came into Leopold's possession and brought his African realm up to , about 75 times larger than Belgium. The Congo Free State imposed such a terror regime on the colonised people, including mass killings and forced labour, that Belgium, under pressure from the Congo Reform Association, ended Leopold II's rule and annexed it in 1908 as a colony of Belgium, known as the Belgian Congo.\n\nThe brutality of King Leopold II of Belgium in his former colony of the Congo Free State, now the Democratic Republic of the Congo, was well documented; up to 8 million of the estimated 16 million native inhabitants died between 1885 and 1908.\nAccording to the former Irish diplomat Roger Casement, this depopulation had four main causes: \"indiscriminate war\", starvation, reduction of births and diseases. Sleeping sickness ravaged the country and must also be taken into account for the dramatic decrease in population; it has been estimated that sleeping sickness and smallpox killed nearly half the population in the areas surrounding the lower Congo River.\n\nEstimates of the total death toll vary considerably. As the first census did not take place until 1924, it is difficult to quantify the population loss of the period. Casement's report set it at three million. William Rubinstein wrote: \"More basically, it appears almost certain that the population figures given by Hochschild are inaccurate. There is, of course, no way of ascertaining the population of the Congo before the twentieth century, and estimates like 20 million are purely guesses. Most of the interior of the Congo was literally unexplored if not inaccessible.\" See Congo Free State for further details including numbers of victims.\n\nA similar situation occurred in the neighbouring French Congo. Most of the resource extraction was run by concession companies, whose brutal methods, along with the introduction of disease, resulted in the loss of up to 50 percent of the indigenous population. The French government appointed a commission, headed by de Brazza, in 1905 to investigate the rumoured abuses in the colony. However, de Brazza died on the return trip, and his \"searingly critical\" report was neither acted upon nor released to the public. In the 1920s, about 20,000 forced labourers died building a railroad through the French territory.\n\nFrench diplomat Ferdinand de Lesseps had obtained many concessions from Isma'il Pasha, the Khedive of Egypt and Sudan, in 1854–56, to build the Suez Canal. Some sources estimate the workforce at 30,000, but others estimate that 120,000 workers died over the ten years of construction due to malnutrition, fatigue and disease, especially cholera. Shortly before its completion in 1869, Khedive Isma'il borrowed enormous sums from British and French bankers at high rates of interest. By 1875, he was facing financial difficulties and was forced to sell his block of shares in the Suez Canal. The shares were snapped up by Britain, under its Prime Minister, Benjamin Disraeli, who sought to give his country practical control in the management of this strategic waterway. When Isma'il repudiated Egypt's foreign debt in 1879, Britain and France seized joint financial control over the country, forcing the Egyptian ruler to abdicate, and installing his eldest son Tewfik Pasha in his place. The Egyptian and Sudanese ruling classes did not relish foreign intervention.\n\nDuring the 1870s, European initiatives against the slave trade caused an economic crisis in northern Sudan, precipitating the rise of Mahdist forces. In 1881, the Mahdist revolt erupted in Sudan under Muhammad Ahmad, severing Tewfik's authority in Sudan. The same year, Tewfik suffered an even more perilous rebellion by his own Egyptian army in the form of the Urabi Revolt. In 1882, Tewfik appealed for direct British military assistance, commencing Britain's administration of Egypt. A joint British-Egyptian military force ultimately defeated the Mahdist forces in Sudan in 1898. Thereafter, Britain (rather than Egypt) seized effective control of Sudan.\n\nThe occupation of Egypt, and the acquisition of the Congo were the first major moves in what came to be a precipitous scramble for African territory. In 1884, Otto von Bismarck convened the 1884–85 Berlin Conference to discuss the African problem. The diplomats put on a humanitarian façade by condemning the slave trade, prohibiting the sale of alcoholic beverages and firearms in certain regions, and by expressing concern for missionary activities. More importantly, the diplomats in Berlin laid down the rules of competition by which the great powers were to be guided in seeking colonies. They also agreed that the area along the Congo River was to be administered by Léopold II of Belgium as a neutral area, known as the Congo Free State, in which trade and navigation were to be free. No nation was to stake claims in Africa without notifying other powers of its intentions. No territory could be formally claimed prior to being effectively occupied. However, the competitors ignored the rules when convenient and on several occasions war was only narrowly avoided.\n\nBritain's administration of Egypt and the Cape Colony contributed to a preoccupation over securing the source of the Nile River. Egypt was overrun by British forces in 1882 (although not formally declared a protectorate until 1914, and never an actual colony); Sudan, Nigeria, Kenya and Uganda were subjugated in the 1890s and early 20th century; and in the south, the Cape Colony (first acquired in 1795) provided a base for the subjugation of neighboring African states and the Dutch Afrikaner settlers who had left the Cape to avoid the British and then founded their own republics. Theophilus Shepstone annexed the South African Republic (or Transvaal) in 1877 for the British Empire, after it had been independent for twenty years. In 1879, after the Anglo-Zulu War, Britain consolidated its control of most of the territories of South Africa. The Boers protested, and in December 1880 they revolted, leading to the First Boer War (1880–81). British Prime Minister William Gladstone signed a peace treaty on 23 March 1881, giving self-government to the Boers in the Transvaal. The Jameson Raid of 1895 was a failed attempt by the British South Africa Company and the Johannesburg Reform Committee to overthrow the Boer government in the Transvaal. The Second Boer War, fought between 1899 and 1902, was about control of the gold and diamond industries; the independent Boer republics of the Orange Free State and the South African Republic (or Transvaal) were this time defeated and absorbed into the British Empire.\n\nThe French thrust into the African interior was mainly from the coasts of West Africa (modern day Senegal) eastward, through the Sahel along the southern border of the Sahara, a huge desert covering most of present-day Senegal, Mali, Niger, and Chad. Their ultimate aim was to have an uninterrupted colonial empire from the Niger River to the Nile, thus controlling all trade to and from the Sahel region, by virtue of their existing control over the Caravan routes through the Sahara. The British, on the other hand, wanted to link their possessions in Southern Africa (modern South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Lesotho, Swaziland, and Zambia), with their territories in East Africa (modern Kenya), and these two areas with the Nile basin.\n\nThe Sudan (which in those days included most of present-day Uganda) was the key to the fulfillment of these ambitions, especially since Egypt was already under British control. This \"red line\" through Africa is made most famous by Cecil Rhodes. Along with Lord Milner, the British colonial minister in South Africa, Rhodes advocated such a \"Cape to Cairo\" empire, linking the Suez Canal to the mineral-rich Southern part of the continent by rail. Though hampered by German occupation of Tanganyika until the end of World War I, Rhodes successfully lobbied on behalf of such a sprawling African empire.\n\nIf one draws a line from Cape Town to Cairo (Rhodes's dream), and one from Dakar to the Horn of Africa (now Ethiopia, Eritrea, Djibouti and Somalia), (the French ambition), these two lines intersect somewhere in eastern Sudan near Fashoda, explaining its strategic importance. In short, Britain had sought to extend its East African empire contiguously from Cairo to the Cape of Good Hope, while France had sought to extend its own holdings from Dakar to the Sudan, which would enable its empire to span the entire continent from the Atlantic Ocean to the Red Sea.\n\nA French force under Jean-Baptiste Marchand arrived first at the strategically located fort at Fashoda, soon followed by a British force under Lord Kitchener, commander in chief of the British Army since 1892. The French withdrew after a standoff and continued to press claims to other posts in the region. In March 1899, the French and British agreed that the source of the Nile and Congo Rivers should mark the frontier between their spheres of influence.\n\nAlthough the 1884–85 Berlin Conference had set the rules for the Scramble for Africa, it had not weakened the rival imperialists. The 1898 Fashoda Incident, which had seen France and the British Empire on the brink of war, ultimately led to the signature of the \"Entente Cordiale\" of 1904, which countered the influence of the European powers of the Triple Alliance. As a result, the new German Empire decided to test the solidity of such influence, using the contested territory of Morocco as a battlefield.\n\nThus, Kaiser Wilhelm II visited Tangiers on 31 March 1905 and made a speech in favor of Moroccan independence, challenging French influence in Morocco. France's influence in Morocco had been reaffirmed by Britain and Spain in 1904. The Kaiser's speech bolstered French nationalism, and with British support the French foreign minister, Théophile Delcassé, took a defiant line. The crisis peaked in mid-June 1905, when Delcassé was forced out of the ministry by the more conciliation-minded premier Maurice Rouvier. But by July 1905 Germany was becoming isolated and the French agreed to a conference to solve the crisis. Both France and Germany continued to posture up until the conference, with Germany mobilizing reserve army units in late December and France actually moving troops to the border in January 1906.\n\nThe 1906 Algeciras Conference was called to settle the dispute. Of the thirteen nations present, the German representatives found their only supporter was Austria-Hungary. France had firm support from Britain, the US, Russia, Italy and Spain. The Germans eventually accepted an agreement, signed on 31 May 1906, whereby France yielded certain domestic changes in Morocco but retained control of key areas.\n\nHowever, five years later the Second Moroccan Crisis (or Agadir Crisis) was sparked by the deployment of the German gunboat \"Panther\" to the port of Agadir on 1 July 1911. Germany had started to attempt to surpass Britain's naval supremacy—the British navy had a policy of remaining larger than the next two naval fleets in the world combined. When the British heard of the \"Panther\"'s arrival in Morocco, they wrongly believed that the Germans meant to turn Agadir into a naval base on the Atlantic.\n\nThe German move was aimed at reinforcing claims for compensation for acceptance of effective French control of the North African kingdom, where France's pre-eminence had been upheld by the 1906 Algeciras Conference. In November 1911 a convention was signed under which Germany accepted France's position in Morocco in return for territory in the French Equatorial African colony of Middle Congo (now the Republic of the Congo).\n\nFrance and Spain subsequently established a full protectorate over Morocco (30 March 1912), ending what remained of the country's formal independence. Furthermore, British backing for France during the two Moroccan crises reinforced the Entente between the two countries and added to Anglo-German estrangement, deepening the divisions that would culminate in the First World War.\n\nFollowing the Berlin Conference at the end of the 19th century, the British, Italians, and Ethiopians sought to claim lands owned by the Somalis such as the Warsangali Sultanate, the Ajuran Sultanate and the Gobroon Dynasty.\n\nThe Dervish movement was a state established by Mohammed Abdullah Hassan, a Somali religious leader who gathered Muslim soldiers from across the Horn of Africa and united them into a loyal army known as the \"Dervishes\". This Dervish army enabled Hassan to carve out a powerful state through conquest of lands sought after by the Ethiopians and the European powers. The Dervish movement successfully repulsed the British Empire four times and forced it to retreat to the coastal region. Due to these successful expeditions, the Dervish movement was recognised as an ally by the Ottoman and German empires. The Turks also named Hassan Emir of the Somali nation, and the Germans promised to officially recognise any territories the Dervishes were to acquire.\n\nAfter a quarter of a century of holding the British at bay, the Dervishes were finally defeated in 1920 as a direct consequence of Britain's use of aircraft.\n\nBetween 1904 and 1908, Germany's colonies in German South-West Africa and German East Africa were rocked by separate, contemporaneous native revolts against their rule. In both territories the threat to German rule was quickly defeated once large-scale reinforcements from Germany arrived, with the Herero rebels in German South-West Africa being defeated at the Battle of Waterberg and the Maji-Maji rebels in German East Africa being steadily crushed by German forces slowly advancing through the countryside, with the natives resorting to guerrilla warfare. German efforts to clear the bush of civilians in German South-West Africa then resulted in a genocide of the population.\n\nIn total, as many as 65,000 Herero (80% of the total Herero population), and 10,000 Namaqua (50% of the total Namaqua population) either starved, died of thirst, or were worked to death in camps such as Shark Island Concentration Camp between 1904 and 1908. Characteristic of this genocide was death by starvation and the poisoning of the population's wells whilst they were trapped in the Namib Desert.\n\nIn its earlier stages, imperialism was generally the act of individual explorers as well as some adventurous merchantmen. The colonial powers were a long way from approving without any dissent the expensive adventures carried out abroad. Various important political leaders, such as Gladstone, opposed colonisation in its first years. However, during his second premiership between 1880 and 1885 he could not resist the colonial lobby in his cabinet, and thus did not execute his electoral promise to disengage from Egypt. Although Gladstone was personally opposed to imperialism, the social tensions caused by the Long Depression pushed him to favor jingoism: the imperialists had become the \"parasites of patriotism\" (John A. Hobson). In France, then Radical politician Georges Clemenceau also adamantly opposed himself to it: he thought colonisation was a diversion from the \"blue line of the Vosges\" mountains, that is revanchism and the patriotic urge to reclaim the Alsace-Lorraine region which had been annexed by the German Empire with the 1871 Treaty of Frankfurt. Clemenceau actually made Jules Ferry's cabinet fall after the 1885 Tonkin disaster. According to Hannah Arendt in \"The Origins of Totalitarianism\" (1951), this expansion of national sovereignty on overseas territories contradicted the unity of the nation state which provided citizenship to its population. Thus, a tension between the universalist will to respect human rights of the colonised people, as they may be considered as \"citizens\" of the nation state, and the imperialist drive to cynically exploit populations deemed inferior began to surface. Some, in colonising countries, opposed what they saw as unnecessary evils of the colonial administration when left to itself; as described in Joseph Conrad's \"Heart of Darkness\" (1899)—published around the same time as Kipling's \"The White Man's Burden\"—or in Louis-Ferdinand Céline's \"Journey to the End of the Night\" (1932).\n\nColonial lobbies emerged to legitimise the Scramble for Africa and other expensive overseas adventures. In Germany, France, and Britain, the middle class often sought strong overseas policies to ensure the market's growth. Even in lesser powers, voices like Enrico Corradini claimed a \"place in the sun\" for so-called \"proletarian nations\", bolstering nationalism and militarism in an early prototype of fascism.\n\nHowever, by the end of World War I the colonial empires had become very popular almost everywhere in Europe: public opinion had been convinced of the needs of a colonial empire, although most of the metropolitans would never see a piece of it. Colonial exhibitions had been instrumental in this change of popular mentalities brought about by the colonial propaganda, supported by the colonial lobby and by various scientists. Thus, the conquest of territories were inevitably followed by public displays of the indigenous people for scientific and leisure purposes. Karl Hagenbeck, a German merchant in wild animals and a future entrepreneur of most Europeans zoos, thus decided in 1874 to exhibit Samoa and Sami people as \"purely natural\" populations. In 1876, he sent one of his collaborators to the newly conquered Egyptian Sudan to bring back some wild beasts and Nubians. Presented in Paris, London, and Berlin these Nubians were very successful. Such \"human zoos\" could be found in Hamburg, Antwerp, Barcelona, London, Milan, New York City, Paris, etc., with 200,000 to 300,000 visitors attending each exhibition. Tuaregs were exhibited after the French conquest of Timbuktu (visited by René Caillié, disguised as a Muslim, in 1828, thereby winning the prize offered by the French \"Société de Géographie\"); Malagasy after the occupation of Madagascar; Amazons of Abomey after Behanzin's mediatic defeat against the French in 1894. Not used to the climatic conditions, some of the indigenous exposed died, such as some Galibis in Paris in 1892.\nGeoffroy de Saint-Hilaire, director of the Parisian Jardin d'acclimatation, decided in 1877 to organise two \"ethnological spectacles\", presenting Nubians and Inuit. The public of the Jardin d'acclimatation doubled, with a million paying entrances that year, a huge success for these times. Between 1877 and 1912, approximately thirty \"ethnological exhibitions\" were presented at the Jardin zoologique d'acclimatation. \"Negro villages\" would be presented in Paris' 1878 and 1879 World's Fair; the 1900 World's Fair presented the famous diorama \"living\" in Madagascar, while the Colonial Exhibitions in Marseilles (1906 and 1922) and in Paris (1907 and 1931) would also display human beings in cages, often nudes or quasi-nudes. Nomadic \"Senegalese villages\" were also created, thus displaying the power of the colonial empire to all the population.\n\nIn the US, Madison Grant, head of the New York Zoological Society, exposed Pygmy Ota Benga in the Bronx Zoo alongside the apes and others in 1906. At the behest of Grant, a prominent scientific racist and eugenicist, zoo director Hornaday placed Ota Benga in a cage with an orangutan and labeled him \"The Missing Link\" in an attempt to illustrate Darwinism, and in particular that Africans like Ota Benga are closer to apes than were Europeans. Other colonial exhibitions included the 1924 British Empire Exhibition and the successful 1931 Paris \"Exposition coloniale\".\n\nFrom the beginning of the 20th century onward, the elimination or control of disease in tropical countries became a driving force for all colonial powers. The sleeping sickness epidemic in Africa was arrested due to mobile teams systematically screening millions of people at risk. In the 20th century, Africa saw the biggest increase in its population due to lessening of the mortality rate in many countries due to peace, famine relief, medicine, and above all, the end or decline of the slave trade. Africa's population has grown from 120 million in 1900 to over 1 billion today.\n\nThe continuing anti-slavery movement in Europe became a reason and an excuse for the conquest and colonization of the Africa. It was the central theme of the Brussels Anti-Slavery Conference 1889-90. During the Scramble for Africa, an early but secondary focus of all colonial regimes was the suppression of slavery and the slave trade. In French West Africa, following conquest and abolition by the French, over a million slaves fled from their masters to earlier homes between 1906 and 1911. In Madagascar, the French abolished slavery in 1896 and approximately 500,000 slaves were freed. Slavery was abolished in the French controlled Sahel by 1911. Independent nations attempting to westernize or impress Europe sometimes cultivated an image of slavery suppression. In response to European pressure, the Sokoto Caliphate abolished slavery in 1900 and Ethiopia officially abolished slavery in 1932. Colonial powers were mostly successful in abolishing slavery, though slavery remained active in Africa even though it has gradually moved to a wage economy. Slavery was never fully eradicated in Africa.\n\nDuring the New Imperialism period, by the end of the 19th century, Europe added almost – one-fifth of the land area of the globe – to its overseas colonial possessions. Europe's formal holdings now included the entire African continent except Ethiopia, Liberia, and Saguia el-Hamra, the latter of which would be integrated into Spanish Sahara. Between 1885 and 1914, Britain took nearly 30% of Africa's population under its control; 15% for France, 11% for Portugal, 9% for Germany, 7% for Belgium and 1% for Italy. Nigeria alone contributed 15 million subjects, more than in the whole of French West Africa or the entire German colonial empire. It was paradoxical that Britain, the staunch advocate of free trade, emerged in 1914 with not only the largest overseas empire thanks to its long-standing presence in India, but also the greatest gains in the \"scramble for Africa\", reflecting its advantageous position at its inception. In terms of surface area occupied, the French were the marginal victors but much of their territory consisted of the sparsely populated Sahara.\n\nThe political imperialism followed the economic expansion, with the \"colonial lobbies\" bolstering chauvinism and jingoism at each crisis in order to legitimise the colonial enterprise. The tensions between the imperial powers led to a succession of crises, which finally exploded in August 1914, when previous rivalries and alliances created a domino situation that drew the major European nations into World War I. Austria-Hungary attacked Serbia to avenge the murder by Serbian agents of Austrian crown prince Francis Ferdinand, Russia would mobilise to assist allied Serbia, Germany would intervene to support Austria-Hungary against Russia. Since Russia had a military alliance with France against Germany, the German General Staff, led by General von Moltke decided to realise the well prepared Schlieffen Plan to invade and quickly knock France out of the war before turning against Russia in what was expected to be a long campaign. This required an invasion of Belgium which brought Britain into the war against Germany, Austria-Hungary and their allies. German U-Boat campaigns against ships bound for Britain eventually drew the United States into what had become World War I. Moreover, using the Anglo-Japanese Alliance as an excuse, Japan leaped onto this opportunity to conquer German interests in China and the Pacific to become the dominating power in the Western Pacific, setting the stage for the Second Sino-Japanese War (starting in 1937) and eventually World War II.\n\n\n\nAfter the First World War, Germany's possessions were partitioned among Britain (which took a sliver of western Cameroon, Tanzania, western Togo, and Namibia), France (which took most of Cameroon and eastern Togo) and Belgium (which took Rwanda and Burundi).\n\n\nLater, during the Interwar period, with the Second Italo-Ethiopian War Italy would annex Ethiopia, which formed together with Eritrea and Italian Somaliland the Italian East Africa (A.O.I., \"Africa Orientale Italiana\", also defined by the fascist government as \"L'Impero\").\n\nThe British were primarily interested in maintaining secure communication lines to India, which led to initial interest in Egypt and South Africa. Once these two areas were secure, it was the intent of British colonialists such as Cecil Rhodes to establish a Cape-Cairo railway and to exploit mineral and agricultural resources. Control of the Nile was viewed as a strategic and commercial advantage.\n\nLiberia was the only nation in Africa that was a colony and a protectorate of the United States. Liberia was founded, colonised, established and controlled by the American Colonization Society, a private organisation established in order to relocate freed African-American and Caribbean slaves from the United States and the Caribbean islands in 1821. Liberia declared its independence from the American Colonization Society on July 26, 1847. Liberia is Africa's oldest democratic republic, and the second-oldest black republic in the world (after Haiti).\n\nEthiopia maintained its independence from Italy after the Battle of Adwa which resulted in the Treaty of Addis Ababa. With the exception of the occupation between 1936 and 1941 by Benito Mussolini's military forces, Ethiopia is Africa's oldest independent nation.\n\nThe new scramble for Africa began with the emergence of the Afro-Neo-Liberal capitalist movement in Post-Colonial Africa. When African nations began to gain independence during the Post World War II Era, their post colonial economic structures remained undiversified and linear. In most cases, the bulk of a nation’s economy relied on cash crops or natural resources. The decolonisation process kept independent African nations at the mercy of colonial powers due to structurally-dependent economic relations. Structural adjustment programs led to the privatization and liberalization of many African political and economic systems, forcefully pushing Africa into the global capitalist market. The economic decline in the 1990s fostered democratization by the World Bank intervening in the political and economic affairs of Africa once again. All of these factors led to Africa’s forced development under Western ideological systems of economics and politics.\n\nIn the era of globalization, many African countries have emerged as petro-states (for example Sudan, Cameroon, Nigeria, Angola). These are nations with an economic and political partnership between transnational oil companies and the ruling elite class in oil-rich African nations. Numerous countries have entered into a neo-imperial relationship with Africa during this time period. Mary Gilmartin notes that “material and symbolic appropriation of space [is] central to imperial expansion and control”; nations in the globalization era who invest in controlling land internationally are engaging in neo-imperialism. Chinese (and other Asian countries) state oil companies have entered Africa’s highly competitive oil sector. China National Petroleum Corporation purchased 40% of Greater Nile Petroleum Operating Company. Furthermore, Sudan exports 50–60% of its domestically produced oil to China, making up 7% of China’s imports. China has also been purchasing equity shares in African oil fields, invested in industry related infrastructure development and acquired continental oil concessions throughout Africa.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57170288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57170288", "title": "Simone Strey", "text": "Simone Strey\n\nSimone Strey is a German internet entrepreneur who is co-founder and CEO of the mobile crop advisory app Plantix. For her work, she was honored with the Innovators under 35 Award by MIT technology review in 2016.\n\nStrey was born and raised in Hanover, Germany. She studied geography with a focus on geobotanic and soil science at the University of Hanover.\n\nAs a PhD candidate, Strey worked on several scientific papers dealing with carbon stocks in soil and sustainable land use. In collaboration with the Mekranoti, an indigenous tribe of the Kayapo nation in Brazil's Pará state, she investigated the carbon content of the soil to a depth of in an untouched forest in Amazonia. Strey was also co-founder of Green Desert e.V. in 2008 and has been chairman of the association since then. Green Desert is an NGO committed to sustainable agriculture and open source technologies in Gambia and Senegal.\n\nThe idea for Plantix began in 2014 as a scientific crowdsourcing science project called \"Garden Bank\", which was initiated together with Robert Strey, Pierre Munzel, Charlotte Schumann, Alexander Kennepohl, Bianca Kummer and Korbinian Hartberger. As a consequence, Strey co-founded the PEAT GmbH, which is responsible for the Plantix app, with the above-mentioned team in 2015. Strey received the Exist startup scholarship for the idea of automated detection of plant diseases. At the end of 2017, Plantix had raised venture capital and successfully closed the series A with Index Venture. In the meantime the app reached the 1 million download mark on Google Play. Plantix cooperates with international research institutes and inter-governmental organizations such as ICRISAT, CIMMYT and CABI.\n"}
{"id": "10528111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10528111", "title": "Spanish expeditions to the Pacific Northwest", "text": "Spanish expeditions to the Pacific Northwest\n\nSpanish claims to Alaska and the West Coast of North America date to the papal bull of 1493, and the Treaty of Tordesillas. In 1513, this claim was reinforced by Spanish explorer Vasco Núñez de Balboa, the first European to sight the Pacific Ocean, when he claimed all lands adjoining this ocean for the Spanish Crown. Spain only started to colonize the claimed territory north of present-day Mexico in the 18th century, when it settled the northern coast of Las Californias (California).\n\nStarting in the mid-18th century, Spain's rights began to be challenged by British and Russian fur traders and colonizers. King Charles III of Spain and his successors sent a number of expeditions from New Spain to present-day Canada and Alaska between 1774 and 1793, to counter this threat and to defend Spanish territorial rights. During this period in history, a nation's claims or rights to a certain territory were legitimized by exploration and \"prior to Spanish discovery\".\n\nThe first voyage was that of Juan José Pérez Hernández of the frigate \"Santiago\" (alias \"Nueva Galicia\"). Although intending to reach Alaska, the expedition turned back at Haida Gwaii. Pérez and his crew of 86 were the first Europeans to visit the Pacific Northwest.\nIn 1775 a second voyage of ninety men led by Lieutenant Bruno de Heceta aboard the \"Santiago\", set sail from San Blas, Nayarit on March 16, 1775 with orders to make clear Spanish claims for the entire Northwestern Pacific Coast. Accompanying Heceta was the schooner \"Sonora\", alias \"Felicidad\", (also known as the \"Nuestra Señora de Guadalupe\"), initially under the command of Juan Manuel de Ayala. The long \"Sonora\" and its crew complement of 16 were to perform coastal reconnaissance and mapping, and could make landfall in places the larger \"Santiago\" was unable to approach on its previous voyage; in this way, the expedition could officially reassert Spanish claims to the lands north of New Spain it visited. Ayala took command of the packet boat \"San Carlos\", alias \"Toysón de Oro\", also sailing with the expedition, after its initial commander, Miguel Manrique, took ill soon after leaving San Blas. Heceta then gave Bodega y Quadra command of the \"Sonora\". Francisco Antonio Mourelle served as Bodega y Quadra's pilot and the two forged a strong and enduring friendship.\n\nThe three vessels sailed together as far as Monterey Bay in Alta California. Ayala's mission was to explore the Golden Gate strait while Heceta and Bodega y Quadra continued north. Ayala and the crew of the \"San Carlos\" became the first Europeans known to enter San Francisco Bay. The \"Santiago\" and \"Sonora\" continued sailing north together as far as Point Grenville, named \"Punta de los Martires\" (or \"Point of the Martyrs\") by Heceta in response to an attack by the local Quinault Indians. The vessels parted company on the evening of July 29, 1775. Scurvy had so weakened the crew of the \"Santiago\" that Heceta decided to return to San Blas. On the way south he discovered the mouth of the Columbia River between present day Oregon and Washington. Juan Pérez, who was serving as Heceta's pilot, died during the voyage south.\n\nBodega y Quadra, in the \"Sonora\", moved up the coast according to the expedition's orders, ultimately reaching the latitude 59° north on August 15, and entering Sitka Sound near the present-day town of Sitka, Alaska. During the return voyage south Bodega y Quadra discovered, named, and explored a portion of Bucareli Bay on the west side of Prince of Wales Island.\n\nDuring Bodega y Quadra's voyage numerous \"acts of sovereignty\" were performed. Many place names were given, including Puerto de Bucareli (Bucareli Bay), Puerto de los Remedios, and Mount San Jacinto, renamed Mount Edgecumbe by British explorer James Cook three years later.\n\nA third voyage took place in 1779 under the command of Ignacio de Arteaga with two armed corvettes: the \"Favorita\" under Arteaga, and the \"Princesa\" under Bodega y Quadra. With Arteaga on the \"Favorita\" was second officer Fernando Quiros y Miranda, surgeon Juan Garcia, pilot Jose Camacho, and second pilot Juan Pantoja y Arriaga. With Bodega y Quadra on the \"Princesa\" was second officer Francisco Antonio Mourelle, surgeon Mariano Nunez Esquivel, pilot Jose Canizares, and second pilot Juan Bautista Aguirre. The expedition's objective was to evaluate the Russian penetration of Alaska, search for a Northwest Passage, and capture James Cook if they found him in Spanish waters. Spain had learned about Cook's 1778 explorations along the coast of the Pacific Northwest. In June 1779, during the expedition of Arteaga and Bodega y Quadra, Spain entered the American Revolutionary War as an ally of France, precipitating a parallel Anglo-Spanish War, which continued until the 1783 Treaty of Paris. Arteaga and Bodega y Quadra did not find Cook, who had been killed in Hawaii in February 1779.\n\nDuring the voyage Arteaga and Bodega y Quadra carefully surveyed Bucareli Bay then headed north to Port Etches on Hinchinbrook Island. They entered Prince William Sound and reached a latitude of 61°, the most northern point obtained by the Spanish explorations of Alaska. They also explored Cook Inlet, and the Kenai Peninsula, where a possession ceremony was performed on August 2, in what today is called Port Chatham. Due to various sicknesses among the crew Arteaga returned to California without finding the Russians.\n\nThroughout the voyage, the crews of both vessels endured many hardships, including food shortages and scurvy. On September 8, the ships rejoined and headed south for the return trip to San Blas. Although the Spanish were normally secretive about their exploring voyages and the discoveries made, the 1779 voyage of Arteaga and Bodega y Quadra became widely known. La Perouse obtained a copy of their map, which was published in 1798. Mourelle's journal was acquired and published in London in 1798 by Daines Barrington.\n\nAfter these three exploration voyages to Alaska within five years there were no further Spanish expeditions to the Pacific Northwest until 1788, after the Treaty of Paris ended the war between Spain and Britain. During the war Spain dedicated the port of San Blas to the war effort in the Philippines. Voyages of exploration were suspended. Support of Alta California, which depended upon San Blas, was minimal. By 1786 Alta California had become nearly self-supporting and peace with Britain was restored, making further voyages to Alaska possible.\n\nIn March, 1788, two ships were sent north from San Blas to investigate Russian activity. Esteban José Martínez, on the \"Princesa\", was in command of the expedition, accompanied by the \"San Carlos\" under Gonzalo López de Haro, with José María Narváez serving as Haro's pilot. The ships arrived at Prince William Sound in May. Following evidence of Russian fur trading activity the ships sailed west. In June Haro reached Kodiak Island and learned from the natives that a Russian post was nearby.\n\nOn June 30, 1788, Haro sent Narváez in a longboat to look for the Russian post at Three Saints Bay. Narváez found the post, becoming the first Spaniard to make contact with a large contingent of Russians in Alaska. Narváez took the Russian commander, Evstrat Delarov to meet Haro on the \"San Carlos\", then returned him to his outpost. Delarov gave Narváez a Russian map of the Alaskan coast and indicated the locations of seven Russian posts containing nearly 500 men. Delarov also told Narváez that the Russians intended to occupy Nootka Sound, on the west coast of Vancouver Island.\n\nAfter this meeting Haro sailed east and joined Martínez at Sitkinak Island. Using the information acquired from Delarov, the expedition sailed to Unalaska Island, where there was a large Russian post, also called Unalaska, under the command of Potap Kuzmich Zaikov. Martínez arrived on July 29, Haro on August 4. Zaikov gave Martínez three maps covering the Aleutian Islands. He also confirmed that the Russians planned to take possession of Nootka Sound the next year. Zaikov explained that two Russian frigates were already on their way, and a third which was to sail to Nootka Sound. He was referring to the 1789 expedition of Joseph Billings, but greatly exaggerating its mission. The visit to Unalaska marks the westernmost point reached during the Spanish voyages of exploration in Alaska.\n\nThe Spanish expedition left Unalaska on August 18, 1788, heading south for California and Mexico. Due to increasing conflict between Martínez and Haro, the ships broke off contact within three days sailed south separately. Martínez had allowed this but ordered Haro to rejoin him at Monterey, California. But during the voyage south Haro, with support from Narváez and the other pilots, declared his ship no longer under Martínez's command. They sailed back to San Blas on their own, arriving on October 22, 1788. Martínez spent a month in Monterey waiting for Haro. He arrived at San Blas in December, where he found himself faced with charges of irresponsible leadership. He soon regained favor and was placed in charge of a new expedition to occupy Nootka Sound before the Russians did. This expedition took place in 1789, culminating in the Nootka Crisis.\n\nFollowing up on the 1788 voyage to Alaska, Martínez and Haro were ordered to preemptively take possession of Nootka Sound before the Russians or British could. Events at Nootka Sound in 1789 led to the Nootka Crisis. During the summer of 1789 Martínez sent José María Narváez to explore the Strait of Juan de Fuca in the \"Santa Gertrudis la Magna\" (formerly the \"Northwest America\", a British vessel captured earlier by Martínez at Nootka Sound). Narváez found the Strait of Juan de Fuca to be a large inlet with much promise for further exploration. By the end of the year Martínez abandoned Nootka Sound.\n\nThe Nootka Crisis became a major international incident nearly leading to war between Spain and Britain. As the process unfolded, the Viceroy of New Spain decided it was important to establish a permanent base at Nootka Sound. Three ships sailed to Nootka Sound, with Francisco de Eliza as the overall commander and captain of the \"Concepción\". Manuel Quimper captained the \"Princesa Real\" (the Spanish name for the British vessel \"Princess Royal\", captured by Martínez in 1789). Salvador Fidalgo captained the \"San Carlos\". The first settlement in present-day British Columbia was built on Nootka Sound, Santa Cruz de Nuca as well as Fort San Miguel, manned by soldiers of the First Company of Free Company of Volunteers of Catalonia, under Pedro de Alberni. After getting settled, Eliza dispatched Fidalgo and Quimper on exploration voyages. Fidalgo was sent north and Quimper south.\n\nIn 1790, Spanish explorer Salvador Fidalgo took the \"San Carlos\" to Alaska, visiting and naming Cordova Bay and Port Valdez in Prince William Sound. Acts of sovereignty were performed at both places. Fidalgo entered Cook Inlet and found the Russian post Pavlovskaia, the Pavel Lebedev-Lastochkin Company post at the mouth of the Kenai River. Fidalgo did not stop at the post but continued west to Kodiak Island, where he noted Shelikov's post. Fidalgo then went to the Russian settlement at Alexandrovsk (today's English Bay or Nanwalek, Alaska), southwest of today's Anchorage on the Kenai Peninsula, where again, Fidalgo asserted the Spanish claim to the area by conducting a formal ceremony of sovereignty.\n\nIn 1790 Manuel Quimper, with officers López de Haro and Juan Carrasco, sailed the \"Princesa Real\" into the Strait of Juan de Fuca, following up on voyage of Narváez the previous year. Quimper sailed to the eastern end of the Strait of Juan de Fuca, discovering the San Juan Islands and many straits and inlets. Having limited time he had to return to Nootka without fully exploring the promising straits and inlets. Contrary winds made it impossible to sail the small vessel to Nootka, so Quimper went south to San Blas instead.\n\nIn 1791 Francisco de Eliza was ordered to continue the exploration of the Strait of Juan de Fuca. The voyage consisted of two vessels. Eliza sailed on the \"San Carlos\", with Pantoja as his pilot (master). Narváez sailed on the \"Santa Saturnina\", with Carrasco and Verdía as pilots. During the voyage the Strait of Georgia was discovered, and Narváez conducted a quick exploration of most of it. Eliza sailed the \"San Carlos\" back to Nootka Sound, but the \"Santa Saturnina\", under Carrasco, failed to reach Nootka and instead sailed south to Monterey and San Blas. In Monterey Carrasco met Alessandro Malaspina and told him about the discovery of the Strait of Georgia. This meeting led directly to the 1792 voyage of Galiano and Valdés.\n\nThe King of Spain gave Alejandro Malaspina and José de Bustamante y Guerra command of an around-the-world scientific expedition with two corvettes, the \"Descubierta\" and \"Atrevida\". One of the king's orders was to investigate a possible Northwest Passage. The expedition was also to search for gold, precious stones, and any American, British, or Russian settlements along the northwest coast. Arriving in Alaska in 1791, Malaspina and Bustamante surveyed the coast to the Prince William Sound. At Yakutat Bay, the expedition made contact with the Tlingit. Spanish scholars made a study of the tribe, recording information on social mores, language, economy, warfare methods, and burial practices. Artists with the expedition, Tomas de Suria and José Cardero, produced portraits of tribal members and scenes of Tlingit daily life. Malaspina Glacier, between Yakutat Bay and Icy Bay was subsequently named after Alessandro Malaspina.\n\nIn 1792 Dionisio Alcalá Galiano, on the \"Sutil\", and Cayetano Valdés y Flores, on the \"Mexicana\", sailed from San Blas to Nootka Sound, then circumnavigated Vancouver Island. An account of the voyage of Galiano and Valdés, in contrast, was published in Spain and widely promoted, overshadowing the more significant voyage of Malaspina, who had become a political prisoner shortly after returning to Spain.\n\nJacinto Caamaño, commander of the frigate \"Aránzazu\", sailed to Bucareli Bay in 1792. Juan Pantoja y Arriaga served as his pilot. Caamaño conducted a detailed survey of the coast south to Nootka Sound on Vancouver Island. By 1792 much of the coast had already been visited by European explorers, but some areas had been overlooked, such as the southern part of Prince of Wales Island. A number of Caamaño's place names in the area have survived, such as Cordova Bay, Revillagigedo Channel, Bocas de Quadra, and in what is now called Caamaño Passage, Zayas Island (named for his second pilot, Juan Zayas).\n\nNo report on Caamaño's voyage was published until long after and his discoveries remained obscure, although George Vancouver apparently met Caamaño and obtained copies of his maps, especially of areas north of Dixon Entrance. Vancouver later incorporated some of Caamaño's place names into his atlas.\n\nIn 1793 Francisco de Eliza and Juan Martínez y Zayas surveyed the coast between the Strait of Juan de Fuca and the San Francisco Bay. They also explored the mouth of the Columbia River.\n\nIn the end Spain withdrew from the North Pacific and transferred its claims in the region to the United States in the Adams-Onís Treaty of 1819. Today, Spain's legacy in Alaska and the Pacific Northwest endures as a number of place names, such as Malaspina Glacier, Revillagigedo Island, the towns of Valdez and Cordova, and numerous smaller features.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53549062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53549062", "title": "Subdistricts of Iraq", "text": "Subdistricts of Iraq\n\nNahiyah () or subdistrict is the third-level administrative division in Iraq.\n\nIraq is divided into 18 \"Muhafazah\" () (See: Governorates of Iraq) which are divided into more than 130 \"Kaza\" () (See: Districts of Iraq). These districts are divided into subdistricts.\n\n"}
{"id": "529134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=529134", "title": "Sven Hedin", "text": "Sven Hedin\n\nSven Anders Hedin, KNO1kl RVO, (19 February 1865 – 26 November 1952) was a Swedish geographer, topographer, explorer, photographer, travel writer, and illustrator of his own works. During four expeditions to Central Asia, he made the Transhimalaya known in the West and located sources of the Brahmaputra, Indus and Sutlej Rivers. He also mapped lake Lop Nur, and the remains of cities, grave sites and the Great Wall of China in the deserts of the Tarim Basin. In his book \"Från pol till pol\" (\"From Pole to Pole\"), Hedin describes a journey through Asia and Europe between the late 1880s and the early 1900s. While traveling, Hedin visited Constantinople (Istanbul), Caucasus, Tehran, Mesopotamia (Iraq), lands of the Kyrgyz people, India, China, Asiatic Russia, and Japan. The posthumous publication of his \"Central Asia Atlas\" marked the conclusion of his life's work.\n\nAt 15 years of age, Hedin witnessed the triumphal return of the Arctic explorer Adolf Erik Nordenskiöld after his first navigation of the Northern Sea Route. From that moment on, young Sven aspired to become an explorer. His studies under the German geographer and China expert, Ferdinand Freiherr von Richthofen, awakened a love of Germany in Hedin and strengthened his resolve to undertake expeditions to Central Asia in order to explore the last uncharted areas of Asia. After obtaining a doctorate, learning several languages and dialects, and undertaking two trips through Persia, he ignored the advice of Ferdinand von Richthofen to continue his geographic studies in order to acquaint himself with geographical research methodology; the result was that Hedin had to leave the evaluation of his expedition results later to other scientists.\n\nBetween 1894 and 1908, in three daring expeditions through the mountains and deserts of Central Asia, he mapped and researched parts of Chinese Turkestan (officially Xinjiang) and Tibet which had been unexplored until then. Upon his return to Stockholm in 1909 he was received as triumphantly as Adolf Erik Nordenskiöld. In 1902, he became the last Swede (to date) to be raised to the untitled nobility and was considered one of Sweden's most important personalities. As a member of two scientific academies, he had a voice in the selection of Nobel Prize winners for both science and literature. Hedin never married and had no children, rendering his family line now extinct.\n\nHedin's expedition notes laid the foundations for a precise mapping of Central Asia. He was one of the first European scientific explorers to employ indigenous scientists and research assistants on his expeditions. Although primarily an explorer, he was also the first to unearth the ruins of ancient Buddhist cities in Chinese Central Asia. However, as his main interest in archaeology was finding ancient cities, he had little interest in gathering data thorough scientific excavations. Of small stature, with a bookish, bespectacled appearance, Hedin nevertheless proved himself a determined explorer, surviving several close brushes with death from hostile forces and the elements over his long career. His scientific documentation and popular travelogues, illustrated with his own photographs, watercolor paintings and drawings, his adventure stories for young readers and his lecture tours abroad made him world-famous.\n\nAs a renowned expert on Turkestan and Tibet, he was able to obtain unrestricted access to European and Asian monarchs and politicians as well as to their geographical societies and scholarly associations. They all sought to purchase his exclusive knowledge about the power vacuum in Central Asia with gold medals, diamond-encrusted grand crosses, honorary doctorates and splendid receptions, as well as with logistic and financial support for his expeditions. Hedin, in addition to Nikolai Przhevalsky, Sir Francis Younghusband, and Sir Aurel Stein, was an active player in the British-Russian struggle for influence in Central Asia, known as the Great Game. Their travels were supported because they filled in the \"white spaces\" in contemporary maps, providing valuable information.\n\nHedin was honored in ceremonies in:\n\nHedin was and remained a figure of the 19th century who clung to its visions and methods also in the 20th century. This prevented him from discerning the fundamental social and political upheavals of the 20th century and aligning his thinking and actions accordingly.\n\nConcerned about the security of Scandinavia, he favored the construction of the battleship \"Sverige\". In World War I he specifically allied himself in his publications with the German monarchy and its conduct of the war. Because of this political involvement, his scientific reputation was damaged among Germany's wartime enemies, along with his memberships in their geographical societies and learned associations, as well as any support for his planned expeditions.\n\nAfter a less-than-successful lecture tour in 1923 through North America and Japan, he traveled on to Beijing to carry out an expedition to Chinese Turkestan (modern Xinjiang), but the region's unstable political situation thwarted this intention. He instead traveled through Mongolia by car and through Siberia aboard the Trans-Siberian Railway.\n\nWith financial support from the governments of Sweden and Germany, he led, between 1927 and 1935, an international and interdisciplinary Sino-Swedish Expedition to carry out scientific investigations in Mongolia and Chinese Turkestan, with the participation of 37 scientists from six countries. Despite Chinese counter-demonstrations and after months of negotiations in China, was he able to make the expedition also a Chinese one by obtaining Chinese research commissions and the participation of Chinese scientists. He also concluded a contract which guaranteed freedom of travel for this expedition which, because of its arms, 300 camels, and activities in a war theater, resembled an invading army. However, the financing remained Hedin's private responsibility.\n\nBecause of failing health, the civil war in Chinese Turkestan, and a long period of captivity, Hedin, by then 70 years of age, had a difficult time after the currency depreciation of the Great Depression raising the money required for the expedition, the logistics for assuring the supplying of the expedition in an active war zone, and obtaining access for the expedition's participants to a research area intensely contested by local warlords. Nevertheless, the expedition was a scientific success. The archaeological artifacts which had been sent to Sweden were scientifically assessed for three years, after which they were returned to China under the terms of the contract.\n\nStarting in 1937, the scientific material assembled during the expedition was published in over 50 volumes by Hedin and other expedition participants, thereby making it available for worldwide research on eastern Asia. When he ran out of money to pay printing costs, he pawned his extensive and valuable library, which filled several rooms, making possible the publication of additional volumes.\n\nIn 1935, Hedin made his exclusive knowledge about Central Asia available, not only to the Swedish government, but also to foreign governments such as China and Germany, in lectures and personal discussions with political representatives of Chiang Kai-shek and Adolf Hitler.\n\nAlthough he was not a National Socialist, Hedin's hope that Nazi Germany would protect Scandinavia from invasion by the Soviet Union, brought him in dangerous proximity to representatives of National Socialism, who exploited him as an author. This destroyed his reputation and put him into social and scientific isolation. However, in correspondence and personal conversations with leading Nazis, his successful intercessions achieved the pardoning of ten people condemned to death and the release or survival of Jews who had been deported to Nazi concentration camps.\n\nAt the end of the war, U.S. troops deliberately confiscated documents relating to Hedin's planned \"Central Asia Atlas\". The \"U.S. Army Map Service\" later solicited Hedin's assistance and financed the printing and publication of his life's work, the \"Central Asia Atlas\". Whoever compares this atlas with \"Adolf Stielers Hand Atlas\" of 1891 can appreciate what Hedin accomplished between 1893 and 1935.\n\nAlthough Hedin's research was taboo in Germany and Sweden because of his conduct relating to Nazi Germany, and stagnated for decades in Germany, the scientific documentation of his expeditions was translated into Chinese by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences and incorporated into Chinese research. Following recommendations made by Hedin to the Chinese government in 1935, the routes he selected were used to construct streets and train tracks, as well as dams and canals to irrigate new farms being established in the Tarim and Yanji basins in Xinjiang and the deposits of iron, manganese, oil, coal and gold discovered during the Sino-Swedish Expedition were opened up for mining. Among the discoveries of this expedition should also be counted the many Asian plants and animals unheard of until that date, as well as fossil remains of dinosaurs and other extinct animals. Many were named after Hedin, the species-level scientific classification being \"hedini\". But one discovery remained unknown to Chinese researchers until the turn of the millennium: in the Lop Nur desert, Hedin discovered in 1933 and 1934 ruins of signal towers which prove that the Great Wall of China once extended as far west as Xinjiang.\n\nFrom 1931 until his death in 1952, Hedin lived in Stockholm in a modern high-rise in a preferred location, the address being Norr Mälarstrand 66. He lived with his siblings in the upper three stories and from the balcony he had a wide view over Riddarfjärden Bay and Lake Mälaren to the island of Långholmen. In the entryway to the stairwell is to be found a decorative stucco relief map of Hedin's research area in Central Asia and a relief of the Lama temple, a copy of which he had brought to Chicago for the 1933 World's Fair.\n\nOn 29 October 1952, Hedin's will granted the rights to his books and his extensive personal effects to the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences; the Sven Hedin Foundation established soon thereafter holds all the rights of ownership.\n\nHedin died at Stockholm in 1952. The memorial service was attended by representatives of the Swedish royal household, the Swedish government, the Swedish Academy, and the diplomatic service. He is buried in the cemetery of Adolf Fredrik church in Stockholm.\n\nSven Hedin was born in Stockholm, the son of Ludwig Hedin, Chief Architect of Stockholm. \nWhen he was 15 years old Hedin witnessed the triumphal return of the Swedish Arctic explorer Adolf Erik Nordenskiöld after his first navigation of the Northern Sea Route.\n\nHe describes this experience in his book \"My Life as an Explorer\" as follows:\n\nOn April 24, 1880, the steamer Vega sailed into Stockholms ström. The entire city was illuminated. The buildings around the harbor glowed in the light of innumerable lamps and torches. Gas flames depicted the constellation of Vega on the castle. Amidst this sea of light the famous ship glided into the harbor. I was standing on the Södermalm heights with my parents and siblings, from which we had a superb view. I was gripped by great nervous tension. I will remember this day until I die, as it was decisive for my future. Thunderous jubilation resounded from quays, streets, windows and rooftops. “That is how I want to return home some day,” I thought to myself.\nIn May 1885, Hedin graduated from Beskowska secondary school in Stockholm. He then accepted an offer to accompany the student Erhard Sandgren as his private tutor to Baku, where Sandgren's father was working as an engineer in the oil fields of Robert Nobel. Afterward he attended a course in topography for general staff officers for one month in summer 1885 and took a few weeks of instruction in portrait drawing; this comprised his entire training in those areas.\n\nOn 15 August 1885, he traveled to Baku with Erhard Sandgren and instructed him there for seven months, and he himself began to learn the Latin, French, German, Persian, Russian, English and Tatar languages. He later learned several Persian dialects as well as Turkish, Kyrgyz, Mongolian, Tibetan and some Chinese.\n\nOn 6 April 1886, Hedin left Baku for Iran (then called Persia), traveling by paddle steamer over the Caspian Sea, riding through the Alborz Range to Tehran, Esfahan, Shiraz and the harbor city of Bushehr. From there he took a ship up the Tigris River to Baghdad (then in Ottoman Empire), returning to Tehran via Kermanshah, and then travelling through the Caucasus and over the Black Sea to Constantinople. Hedin then returned to Sweden, arriving on 18 September 1886.\n\nIn 1887, Hedin published a book about these travels entitled \"Through Persia, Mesopotamia and the Caucasus\".\n\nFrom 1886 to 1888, Hedin studied under the geologist Waldemar Brøgger in Stockholm and Uppsala the subjects of geology, mineralogy, zoology and Latin. In December 1888, he became a \"Candidate in Philosophy\". From October 1889 to March 1890 he studied in Berlin under Ferdinand Freiherr von Richthofen.\n\nOn 12 May 1890, he accompanied as interpreter and vice-consul a Swedish legation to Iran which was to present the Shah of Iran with the insignia of the Order of the Seraphim. As part of the Swedish legation, he was at an audience of the shah Naser al-Din Shah Qajar in Tehran. He spoke with him and later accompanied him to the Elburz Mountain Range. On 11 July 1890, he and three others climbed Mount Damavand where he collected primary material for his dissertation. Starting in September he traveled on the Silk Road via cities Mashhad, Ashgabat, Bukhara, Samarkand, Tashkent and Kashgar to the western outskirts of the Taklamakan Desert. On the trip home, he visited the grave of the Russian Asian scholar, Nikolai Przhevalsky in Karakol on the shore of Lake Issyk Kul. On 29 March 1891, he was back in Stockholm. He published the books \"King Oscar's Legation to the Shah of Persia in 1890\" and \"Through Chorasan and Turkestan\" about this journey.\n\nOn 27 April 1892, Hedin traveled to Berlin to continue his studies under Ferdinand Freiherr von Richthofen. Beginning of July he went to University of Halle-Wittenberg, Halle, attending lectures by Alfred Kirchhoff. Yet in the same month, he received the degree of \"Doctor of Philosophy\" with a 28-page dissertation entitled \"Personal Observations of Damavand\". This dissertation is a summary of one part of his book, \"King Oscar's Legation to the Shah of Persia in 1890\". Eric Wennerholm remarked on the subject: \nI can only come to the conclusion that Sven [Hedin] received his doctorate when he was 27 years old after studying for a grand total of only eight months and collecting primary material for one-and-a-half days on the snow-clad peak of Mount Damavand.\nFerdinand Freiherr von Richthofen not only encouraged Hedin to absolve cursory studies, but also to become thoroughly acquainted with all branches of geographic science and the methodologies of the salient research work, so that he could later work as an explorer. Hedin abstained from doing this with an explanation he supplied in old age: \nI was not up to this challenge. I had gotten out onto the wild routes of Asia too early, I had perceived too much of the splendor and magnificence of the Orient, the silence of the deserts and the loneliness of long journeys. I could not get used to the idea of spending a long period of time back in school.\nHedin had therewith decided to become an explorer. He was attracted to the idea of traveling to the last mysterious portions of Asia and filling in the gaps by mapping an area completely unknown in Europe. As an explorer, Hedin became important for the Asian and European powers, who courted him, invited him to give numerous lectures, and hoped to obtain from him in return topographic, economic and strategic information about inner Asia, which they considered part of their sphere of influence. As the era of discovery came to a close around 1920, Hedin contented himself with organizing the Sino-Swedish Expedition for qualified scientific explorers.\n\nBetween 1893 and 1897, Hedin investigated the Pamir Mountains, travelling through the Tarim Basin in Xinjiang region, across the Taklamakan Desert, Lake Kara-Koshun and Lake Bosten, proceeding to study northern Tibet. He covered on this journey and mapped of them on 552 sheets. Approximately led through previously uncharted areas.\n\nHe started out on this expedition on 16 October 1893, from Stockholm, traveling via Saint Petersburg and Tashkent to the Pamir Mountains. Several attempts to climb the high Muztagata—called the Father of the Glaciers—in the Pamir Mountains were unsuccessful. He remained in Kashgar until April 1895 and then left on 10 April with three local escorts from the village of Merket in order to cross the Taklamakan Desert via Tusluk to the Khotan River. Since their water supply was insufficient, seven camels died of thirst, as did two of his escorts (according to Hedin's dramatized and probably inaccurate account). Bruno Baumann traveled on this route in April 2000 with a camel caravan and ascertained that at least one of the escorts who, according to Hedin, had died of thirst had survived, and that it is impossible for a camel caravan traveling in springtime on this route to carry enough drinking water for both camels and travelers.\n\nAccording to other sources, Hedin had neglected to completely fill the drinking water containers for his caravan at the beginning of the expedition and set out for the desert with only half as much water as could actually be carried. When he noticed the mistake, it was too late to return. Obsessed by his urge to carry out his research, Hedin deserted the caravan and proceeded alone on horseback with his servant. When that escort also collapsed from thirst, Hedin left him behind as well, but managed to reach a water source at the last desperate moment. He did, however, return to his servant with water and rescued him. Nevertheless, his ruthless behavior earned him massive criticism.\n\nIn January 1896, after a stopover in Kashgar, Hedin visited the 1,500-year-old abandoned cities of Dandan Oilik and Kara Dung, which are located northeast of Khotan in the Taklamakan Desert. At the beginning of March, he discovered Lake Bosten, one of the largest inland bodies of water in Central Asia. He reported that this lake is supplied by a single mighty feeder stream, the Kaidu River. He mapped Lake Kara-Koshun and returned on 27 May to Khotan. On 29 June, he started out from there with his caravan across northern Tibet and China to Beijing, where he arrived on 2 March 1897. He returned to Stockholm via Mongolia and Russia.\n\nAnother expedition in Central Asia followed in 1899-1902 through the Tarim Basin, Tibet and Kashmir to Calcutta. Hedin navigated the Yarkand, Tarim and Kaidu rivers and found the dry riverbed of the Kum-darja as well as the dried out lake bed of Lop Nur. Near Lop Nur, he discovered the ruins of the former walled royal city and later Chinese garrison town of Loulan, containing the brick building of the Chinese military commander, a stupa, and 19 dwellings built of poplar wood. He also found a wooden wheel from a horse-drawn cart (called an arabas) as well as several hundred documents written on wood, paper and silk in the Kharosthi script. These provided information about the history of the city of Loulan, which had once been located on the shores of Lop Nur but had been abandoned around the year 330 CE because the lake had dried out, depriving the inhabitants of drinking water.\n\nDuring his travels in 1900 and 1901 he attempted in vain to reach the city of Lhasa, which was forbidden to Europeans. He continued to Leh, in Ladakh district, India. From Leh, Hedin's route took him to Lahore, Delhi, Agra, Lucknow, Benares to Calcutta, meeting there with George Nathaniel Curzon, England's then Viceroy to India.\n\nThis expedition resulted in 1,149 pages of maps, on which Hedin depicted newly discovered lands. He was the first to describe yardang formations in the Lop Desert.\n\nBetween 1905 and 1908, Hedin investigated the Central Iranian desert basins, the western highlands of Tibet and the Transhimalaya, which for a time was afterward called the Hedin Range. He visited the 9th Panchen Lama in the cloistered city of Tashilhunpo in Shigatse. Hedin was the first European to reach the Kailash region, including the sacred Lake Manasarovar and Mount Kailash, the midpoint of the earth according to Buddhist and Hindu mythology. The most important goal of the expedition was the search for the sources of the Indus and Brahmaputra Rivers, both of which Hedin found. From India, he returned via Japan and Russia to Stockholm.\n\nHe returned from this expedition with a collection of geological samples which are kept and studied in the Bavarian State Collection of Paleontology and Geology of Munich University. These sedimentary rocks—such as breccia, conglomerate, limestone, and slate, as well as volcanic rock and granite—highlight the geological diversity of the regions visited by Hedin during this expedition.\n\nIn 1923, Hedin traveled to Beijing via the USA—where he visited the Grand Canyon—and Japan. Because of political and social unrest in China, he had to abandon an expedition to Xinjiang. Instead, he traveled with Frans August Larson (called the \"Duke of Mongolia\") in November and December in a Dodge automobile from Peking through Mongolia via Ulaanbaatar to Ulan-Ude, Russia and from there on the Trans-Siberian Railway to Moscow.\n\nBetween 1927 and 1935, Hedin led an international Sino-Swedish Expedition which investigated the meteorological, topographic and prehistoric situation in Mongolia, the Gobi Desert and Xinjiang.\n\nHedin described it as a peripatetic university in which the participating scientists worked almost independently, while he—like a local manager—negotiated with local authorities, made decisions, organized whatever was necessary, raised funds and recorded the route followed. He gave archaeologists, astronomers, botanists, geographers, geologists, meteorologists and zoologists from Sweden, Germany and China an opportunity to participate in the expedition and carry out research in their areas of specialty.\n\nHedin met Chiang Kai-shek in Nanjing, who thereupon became a patron of the expedition. The Sino-Swedish Expedition was honored with a Chinese postage stamp series which had a print run of 25,000. The four stamps show camels at a camp with the expedition flag and bear the Chinese text, \"Postal Service of the Prosperous Middle Kingdom\" and in Latin underneath, \"Scientific Expedition to the Northwestern Province of China 1927-1933\". A painting in the Beijing Palace Museum entitled \"Nomads in the Desert\" served as model for the series. Of the 25,000 sets, 4,000 were sold across the counter and 21,500 came into the possession of the expedition. Hedin used them to finance the expedition, selling them for a price of five dollars per set. The stamps were unwelcome at the time due to the high price Hedin was selling them at, but years later became valuable treasures among collectors.\n\nThe first part of the expedition, from 1927 to 1932, led from Beijing via Baotou to Mongolia, over the Gobi Desert, through Xinjiang to Ürümqi, and into the northern and eastern parts of the Tarim Basin. The expedition had a wealth of scientific results which are being published up to the present time. For example, the discovery of specific deposits of iron, manganese, oil, coal and gold reserves was of great economic relevance for China. In recognition of his achievements, the Berlin Geographical Society presented him with the \"Ferdinand von Richthofen Medal\" in 1933; the same honor was also awarded to Erich von Drygalski for his Gauss Expedition to the Antarctic; and to Alfred Philippson for his research on the Aegean Region.\n\nFrom the end of 1933 to 1934, Hedin led—on behalf of the Kuomintang government under Chiang Kai-shek in Nanjing—a Chinese expedition to investigate irrigation measures and draw up plans and maps for the construction of two roads suitable for automobiles along the Silk Road from Beijing to Xinjiang. Following his plans, major irrigation facilities were constructed, settlements erected, and roads built on the Silk Road from Beijing to Kashgar, which made it possible to completely bypass the rough terrain of Tarim Basin.\n\nOne aspect of the geography of central Asia which intensively occupied Hedin for decades was what he called the “wandering lake” Lop Nur. In May 1934, he began a river expedition to this lake. For two months he navigated the Kaidu River and the Kum-Darja to Lop Nur, which had been filled with water since 1921. After the lake dried out in 1971 as a consequence of irrigation activities, the above-mentioned transportation link enabled the People's Republic of China to construct a nuclear weapon test site at Lop Nur.\n\nHis caravan of truck lorries was hijacked by the Chinese Muslim General Ma Zhongying who was retreating from northern Xinjiang along with his Kuomintang 36th Division (National Revolutionary Army) from the Soviet Invasion of Xinjiang. While Hedin was detained by Ma Zhongying, he met General Ma Hushan, and Kemal Kaya Effendi.\n\nMa Zhongying's adjutant claimed to Hedin that Ma Zhongying had the entire region of Tian-shan-nan-lu (southern Xinjiang) under his control and Sven could pass through safely without any trouble. Hedin did not believe his assertions. Some of Ma Zhongying's Tungan (Chinese speaking Muslim) troops attacked Hedin's expedition by shooting at their vehicles.\n\nFor the return trip, Hedin selected the southern Silk Road route via Hotan to Xi'an, where the expedition arrived on 7 February 1935. He continued on to Beijing to meet with President Lin Sen and to Nanjing to Chiang Kai-shek. He celebrated his 70th birthday on 19 February 1935 in the presence of 250 members of the Kuomintang government, to whom he reported interesting facts about the Sino-Swedish Expedition. On this day, he was awarded the Brilliant Jade Order, Second Class.\n\nAt the end of the expedition, Hedin was in a difficult financial situation. He had considerable debts at the German-Asian Bank in Beijing, which he repaid with the royalties and fees received for his books and lectures. In the months after his return, he held 111 lectures in 91 German cities as well as 19 lectures in neighboring countries. To accomplish this lecture tour, he covered a stretch as long as the equator, by train and by car—in a time period of five months. He met Adolf Hitler in Berlin before his lecture on 14 April 1935.\n\nHedin was a monarchist. From 1905 onwards he took a stand against the move toward democracy in his Swedish homeland. He warned of the dangers he assumed to be coming from Czarist Russia, and called for an alliance with the German Empire. Therefore, he advocated a strengthened national defence, with a vigilant military preparedness. August Strindberg was one of his opponents on this issue, which divided Swedish politics at the time. In 1912 Hedin publicly supported the \"Swedish coastal defense ship Society\". He helped collect public donations for the building of the coastal defense ship , which the Liberal and anti-militarist government of Karl Staaff had been unwilling to finance. In early 1914, when the Liberal government enacted cutbacks to the country's defenses, Hedin wrote the Courtyard Speech, in which King Gustaf V promised to strengthen the country's defenses. The speech led to a political crisis that ended with Staaff and his government resigning and being replaced by a non-party, more conservative government.\n\nHe developed a lasting affinity for the German empire, with which he became acquainted during his formal studies. This is also shown in his admiration for Kaiser Wilhelm II, whom he even visited in exile in the Netherlands. Influenced by imperial Russian and later the Soviet union's attempts to dominate and control territories outside its borders, especially in Central Asia and Turkestan, Hedin felt that Soviet Russia posed a great threat to the West, which may be part of the reason why he supported Germany during both World Wars.\n\nHe viewed World War I as a struggle of the German race (particularly against Russia) and took sides in books like \"Ein Volk in Waffen. Den deutschen Soldaten gewidmet\" (A People in Arms. Dedicated to the German Soldier). As a consequence, he lost friends in France and England and was expelled from the British Royal Geographical Society, and from the Imperial Russian Geographical Society. Germany's defeat in World War I and the associated loss of its international reputation affected him deeply. That Sweden gave asylum to Wolfgang Kapp as a political refugee after the failure of the Kapp Putsch is said to be primarily attributable to his efforts.\n\nHedin's conservative and pro-German views eventually translated into sympathy for the Third Reich, and this would draw him into increasing controversy towards the end of his life. Adolf Hitler had been an early admirer of Hedin, who was in turn impressed with Hitler's nationalism. He saw the German leader's rise to power as a revival of German fortunes, and welcomed its challenge against Soviet Communism. He was not an entirely uncritical supporter of the Nazis, however. His own views were shaped by traditionalist, Christian and conservative values, while National Socialism was in part a modern revolutionary-populist movement. Hedin objected to some aspects of National Socialist rule, and occasionally attempted to convince the German government to relent in its anti-religious and anti-Semitic campaigns.\n\nHedin met Adolf Hitler and other leading National Socialists repeatedly and was in regular correspondence with them. The politely-worded correspondence usually concerned scheduling matters, birthday congratulations, Hedin's planned or completed publications, and requests by Hedin for pardons for people condemned to death, and for mercy, release and permission to leave the country for people interned in prisons or concentration camps. In correspondence with Joseph Goebbels and Hans Dräger, Hedin was able to achieve the printing of the \"Daily Watchwords\" year after year.\n\nThe Nazis attempted to achieve a close connection to Hedin by bestowing awards upon him. They asked him to present an address on \"Sport as a Teacher\" at the 1936 Summer Olympics in Berlin's Olympic stadium. They made him an honorary member of the \"German-Swedish Union Berlin\" () In 1938, they presented him with the City of Berlin's \"Badge of Honor\" (). For his 75th birthday on 19 February 1940 they awarded him the Order of the German Eagle; shortly before that date it had been presented to Henry Ford and Charles Lindbergh. On New Year's Day 1943 they released the Oslo professor of philology and university rector Didrik Arup Seip from the Sachsenhausen concentration camp at Hedin's request in order to obtain Hedin's agreement to accept additional honors during the 470th anniversary of Munich University. On 15 January 1943, he received the \"Gold Medal of the Bavarian Academy of Sciences\" (Goldmedaille der Bayerischen Akademie der Wissenschaften). On 16 January 1943 he received an honorary doctorate from the faculty of natural sciences of Munich University. On the same day, the Nazis founded in his absence the \"Sven Hedin Institute for Inner Asian Research\" located at Mittersill Castle, which was supposed to serve the long-term advancement of the scientific legacy of Hedin and Wilhelm Filchner as Asian experts. However, it was instead misused by Heinrich Himmler as an institute of the \"Research Association for German Genealogical Inheritance\" (Forschungsgemeinschaft Deutsches Ahnenerbe e.V.). On 21 January 1943, he was requested to sign the \"Golden Book of the city of Munich\".\n\nHedin supported the Nazis in his journalistic activities. After the collapse of Nazi Germany, he did not regret his collaboration with the Nazis because this cooperation had made it possible to rescue numerous Nazi victims from execution, or death in extermination camps.\n\nSenior Jewish German archeologist Werner Scheimberg, sent in the expedition by the Thule Society, \"had been one of the companions of the Swedish explorer Sven Hedin on his excursions in the East, with archaeological and to some extent esoteric purposes\". \nHedin was trying to discover the mythological place of Agartha and reproached the Jewish Polish explorer and visiting professor Antoni Ossendowski for having been gone where the Swedish explorer wasn't able to come, and thus was personally invited by Adolf Hitler in Berlin and honoured by the Führer during his 75th birthday feast.\n\nJohannes Paul wrote in 1954 about Hedin:\nMuch of what happened in the early days of Nazi rule had his approval. However, he did not hesitate to criticize whenever he considered this to be necessary, particularly in cases of Jewish persecution, conflict with the churches and bars to freedom of science.\nIn 1937 Hedin refused to publish his book \"Deutschland und der Weltfrieden\" (Germany and World Peace) in Germany because the Reich Ministry for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda insisted on the deletion of Nazi-critical passages. In a letter Hedin wrote to State Secretary Walther Funk dated 16 April 1937, it becomes clear what his criticism of National Socialism was in this time before the establishment of extermination camps:\nWhen we first discussed my plan to write a book, I stated that I only wanted to write objectively, scientifically, possibly critically, according to my conscience, and you considered that to be completely acceptable and natural. Now I emphasized in a very friendly and mild form that the removal of distinguished Jewish professors who have performed great services for mankind is detrimental to Germany and that this has given rise to many agitators against Germany abroad. So I took this position only in the interest of Germany.\n\nMy worry that the education of German youth, which I otherwise praise and admire everywhere, is deficient in questions of religion and the hereafter comes from my love and sympathy for the German nation, and as a Christian I consider it my duty to state this openly, and, to be sure, in the firm conviction that Luther’s nation, which is religious through and through, will understand me.\n\nSo far I have never gone against my conscience and will not do it now either. Therefore, no deletions will be made.\nHedin later published this book in Sweden.\n\nAfter he refused to remove his criticism of National Socialism from his book \"Deutschland und der Weltfrieden\", the Nazis confiscated the passports of Hedin's Jewish friend Alfred Philippson and his family in 1938 in order to prevent their intended departure to American exile and retain them in Germany as a bargaining chip when dealing with Hedin. The consequence was that Hedin expressed himself more favorably about Nazi Germany in his book \"Fünfzig Jahre Deutschland\", subjugated himself against his conscience to the censorship of the Ministry of Public Enlightenment and Propaganda, and published the book in Germany.\n\nOn 8 June 1942, the Nazis increased the pressure on Hedin by deporting Alfred Philippson and his family to the Theresienstadt concentration camp. By doing so, they accomplished their goal of forcing Hedin against his conscience to write his book \"Amerika im Kampf der Kontinente\" in collaboration with the Ministry of Public Enlightenment and Propaganda and other government agencies and to publish it in Germany in 1942. In return, the Nazis classified Alfred Philippson as “A-prominent” and granted his family privileges which enabled them to survive.\n\nFor a long time Hedin was in correspondence with Alfred Philippson and regularly sent food parcels to him in Theresienstadt concentration camp. On 29 May 1946, Alfred Philippson wrote to him (translation, abbreviated quotation): \nMy dear Hedin! Now that letters can be sent abroad I have the opportunity to write to you…. We frequently think with deep gratitude of our rescuer, who alone is responsible for our being able to survive the horrible period of three years of incarceration and hunger in Theresienstadt concentration camp, at my age a veritable wonder. You will have learned that we few survivors were finally liberated just a few days before our intended gassing. We, my wife, daughter and I, were then brought on 9–10 July 1945 in a bus of the city of Bonn here to our home town, almost half of which is now destroyed….\nHedin responded on 19 July 1946 (translation, abbreviated quotation): \n…It was wonderful to find out that our efforts were not in vain. In these difficult years we attempted to rescue over one hundred other unfortunate people who had been deported to Poland, but in most cases without success. We were however able to help a few Norwegians. My home in Stockholm was turned into something like an information and assistance office, and I was excellently supported by Dr. Paul Grassmann, press attaché in the German embassy in Stockholm. He too undertook everything possible to further this humanitarian work. But almost no case was as fortunate as yours, dear friend! And how wonderful, that you are back in Bonn….\nThe names and fates of the over one hundred deported Jews whom Hedin tried to save have not yet been researched.\n\nHedin supported the cause of the Norwegian author Arnulf Øverland and for the Oslo professor of philology and university director Didrik Arup Seip, who were interned in the Sachsenhausen concentration camp. He achieved the release of Didrik Arup Seip, but his efforts to free Arnulf Øverland were unsuccessful. Nevertheless, Arnulf Øverland survived the concentration camp.\n\nAfter the third senate of the highest German military court (Reichskriegsgericht) in Berlin condemned to death for alleged espionage the ten Norwegians Sigurd Jakobsen, Gunnar Hellesen, Helge Børseth, Siegmund Brommeland, Peter Andree Hjelmervik, Siegmund Rasmussen, Gunnar Carlsen, Knud Gjerstad, Christian Oftedahl and Frithiof Lund on 24 February 1941, Hedin successfully appealed via Colonel General Nikolaus von Falkenhorst to Adolf Hitler for their reprieve. Their death penalty was converted on 17 June 1941 by Adolf Hitler to ten years forced labor. The Norwegians Carl W. Mueller, Knud Naerum, Peder Fagerland, Ottar Ryan, Tor Gerrard Rydland, Hans Bernhard Risanger and Arne Sørvag who had been condemned to forced labor under the same charge received reduced sentences at Hedin's request. Unfortunately, Hans Bernhard Risanger died in prison just a few days before his release.\n\nVon Falkenhorst was condemned to death, by firing squad, by a British military court on August 2, 1946, because of his responsibility for passing on a \"Führerbefehl\" called the Commando Order. Hedin intervened on his behalf, achieving a pardon on December 4, 1946, with the argument that von Falkenhorst had likewise striven to pardon the ten Norwegians condemned to death. Von Falkenhorst's death penalty was commuted by the British military court to 20 years in prison. In the end, Nikolaus von Falkenhorst was released early from the Werl war criminals prison on July 13, 1953.\n\nBecause of his outstanding services, Hedin was raised to the untitled nobility by King Oskar II in 1902, the last time any Swede was to receive a charter of nobility. Oskar II suggested that he prefix the name Hedin with one of the two common predicates of nobility in Sweden, \"af\" or \"von\", but Hedin abstained from doing so in his written response to the king. In many noble families in Sweden, it was customary to do without the title of nobility. The coat of arms of Hedin, together with those of some two thousand noble families, is to be found on a wall of the Great Hall in Riddarhuset, the assembly house of Swedish nobility in Stockholm's inner city, Gamla Stan.\n\nIn 1905, Hedin was admitted to membership in the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences and in 1909 to the Royal Swedish Academy of War Sciences. From 1913 to 1952 he held the sixth of 18 chairs as an elected member of the Swedish Academy. In this position, he had a vote in the selection of Nobel Prize winners.\n\nHe was an honorary member of numerous Swedish and foreign scientific societies and institutions which honored him with some 40 gold medals; 27 of these medals can be viewed in Stockholm in a display case in the Royal Coin Cabinet.\n\nHe received honorary doctorates from Oxford (1909), Cambridge (1909), Heidelberg (1928), Uppsala (1935), and Munich (1943) universities and from the Handelshochschule Berlin (1931) (all Dr. phil. h.c.), from Breslau University (1915, Dr. jur. h.c.), and from Rostock University (1919, Dr. med. h.c.).\n\nNumerous countries presented him with medals. In Sweden he became a Commander 1st Class of the Royal Order of the North Star (KNO1kl) with a brilliant badge and Knight of the Royal Order of Vasa (RVO). In the United Kingdom he was named Knight Commander of the Order of the Indian Empire by King Edward VII. As a foreigner, he was not authorized to use the associated title of Sir, but he could place the designation KCIE after his family name Hedin. Hedin was also a Grand Cross of the Order of the German Eagle.\n\nIn his honor have been named a glacier, the Sven Hedin Glacier; a lunar crater Hedin; a species of the flowering plant, \"Gentiana hedini\"; the beetles \"Longitarsus hedini\" and \"Coleoptera hedini\"; a butterfly, \"Fumea hedini Caradja\"; a spider, \"Dictyna hedini\"; a fossil hoofed mammal, \"Tsaidamotherium hedini\"; a fossil Therapsid (a “mammal-like reptile”) \"Lystrosaurus hedini\"; and streets and squares in the cities of various countries (for example, “Hedinsgatan” at Tessinparken in Stockholm).\n\nA permanent exhibition of articles found by Hedin on his expeditions is located in the Stockholm Ethnographic Museum.\n\nIn the Adolf Frederick church can be found the Sven Hedin memorial plaque by Liss Eriksson. The plaque was installed in 1959. On it, a globe with Asia to the fore can be seen, crowned with a camel. It bears the Swedish epitaph: \n\nA survey of the extensive sources for Hedin research shows that it would be difficult at present to come to a fair assessment of the personality and achievements of Hedin. Most of the source material has not yet been subjected to scientific scrutiny. Even the DFG project \"Sven Hedin und die deutsche Geographie\" had to restrict itself to a small selection and a random examination of the source material.\n\nThe sources for Hedin research are located in numerous archives (and include primary literature, correspondence, newspaper articles, obituaries and secondary literature).\n\n\nDuring his expeditions Hedin saw the focus of his work as being in field research. He recorded routes by plotting many thousands of kilometers of his caravan itinerary with the detail of a high resolution topographical map and supplemented them with innumerable altitude measurements and latitude and longitude data. At the same time he combined his field maps with panoramic drawings. He drafted the first precise maps of areas unresearched until that date: the Pamir mountains, the Taklamakan desert, Tibet, the Silk Road and the Himalayas. He was likely the first European to recognize that the Himalayas were a continuous mountain range.\n\nHe systematically studied the lakes of inner Asia, made careful climatological observations over many years, and started extensive collections of rocks, plants, animals and antiquities. Underway he prepared watercolor paintings, sketches, drawings and photographs, which he later published in his works. The photographs and maps with the highest quality printing are to be found in the original Swedish publications.\n\nHedin prepared a scientific publication for each of his expeditions. The extent of documentation increased dramatically from expedition to expedition. His research report about the first expedition was published in 1900 as \"Die geographisch-wissenschaftlichen Ergebnisse meiner Reisen in Zentralasien 1894–97\" (Supplement 28 to \"Petermanns Mitteilungen\"), Gotha 1900. The publication about the second expedition, \"Scientific Results of a Journey in Central Asia\", increased to six text and two atlas volumes. \"Southern Tibet\", the scientific publication on the third expedition, totalled twelve volumes, three of which were atlases. The results of the Sino-Swedish Expedition were published under the title of \"Reports from the scientific expedition to the north-western provinces of China under leadership of Dr. Sven Hedin. The sino-Swedish expedition\". This publication went through 49 editions.\n\nThis documentation was splendidly produced, which made the price so high that only a few libraries and institutes were able to purchase it. The immense printing costs had to be borne for the most part by Hedin himself, as was also true for the cost of the expeditions. He used the fees and royalties which he received from his popular science books and for his lectures for the purpose.\n\nHedin did not himself subject his documentation to scientific evaluation, but rather handed it over to other scientists for the purpose. Since he shared his experiences during his expeditions as popular science and incorporated them in a large number of lectures, travelogues, books for young people and adventure books, he became known to the general public. He soon became famous as one of the most well-recognized personalities of his time.\n\nD. Henze wrote the following about an exhibition at the Deutsches Museum entitled \"Sven Hedin, the last explorer\": \nHe was a pioneer and pathfinder in the transitional period to a century of specialized research. No other single person illuminated and represented unknown territories more extensively than he. His maps alone are a unique creation. And the artist did not take second place to the savant, who deep in the night rapidly and apparently without effort rapidly created awe inspiring works. The discipline of geography, at least in Germany, has so far only concerned itself with his popularized reports. The consistent inclusion of the enormous, still unmined treasures in his scientific work are yet to be incorporated in the regional geography of Asia.\nA scientific assessment of Hedin's character and his relationship to National Socialism was undertaken at Bonn University by Professor Hans Böhm, Dipl.-Geogr. Astrid Mehmel and Christoph Sieker M.A. as part of the DFG Project \"Sven Hedin und die deutsche Geographie\" (\"Sven Hedin and German Geography\").\n\n\na) Biography\n\n\nb) Popular works\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMost German publications on Hedin were translated by F.A. Brockhaus Verlag from Swedish into German. To this extent Swedish editions are the original text. Often after the first edition appeared, F.A. Brockhaus Verlag published abridged versions with the same title. Hedin had not only an important business relationship with the publisher Albert Brockhaus, but also a close friendship. Their correspondence can be found in the Riksarkivet in Stockholm. There is a publication on this subject:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48506705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48506705", "title": "Timeline of Chemnitz", "text": "Timeline of Chemnitz\n\nThe following is a timeline of the history of the city of Chemnitz, Germany.\n\n\n\n\n\nOther cities in the state of Saxony:\n\n\"This article incorporates information from the German Wikipedia.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10094281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10094281", "title": "Titan (DC Comics)", "text": "Titan (DC Comics)\n\nTitan is one of the moons of the planet Saturn. In the 30th and 31st centuries of the the moon is inhabited by a colony of telepaths.\n\nIt is the fictional home world of Saturn Girl, Imra Ardeen. She is one of the most powerful telepaths in the history of Titan. Post Zero-Hour, the super villain Universo was retconned to be from Titan as well.\n\nAs for the Legion of Super-Heroes different universes, each one exhibiting a different version of the Legion and their characters, three versions of Titan are shown in the current DC Multiverse. While the Earth-0 and the Earth-247 are largely similar, until Earth-247 was wiped out during the Zero Hour event, Earth-Prime Titan (who was implied to be part of the future of the \"Real Universe\") is populated by mute telepaths, their vocal cords atrophied, and later eradicated by the evolutionary process, due to their disuse brought by their advanced form of telepathy.\n\nIn Earth-0, it is revealed that the Titanians were originally from the planet Lanoth. Lanoth was destroyed by Brainiac, who bottled a single city for study. The bottle was recovered by Mon-El who was instructed to deliver the city to Saturn. Jemm, the sovereign of the planet Saturn was hesitant to allow a species of telepaths to settle there but decided to put his trust in Mon-El and allows them to settle on Titan. In gratitude the Lanothians rename themselves Titanians and agree to serve under the rule of Jemm. According to Saturn Queen, other humanoid colonists settled on Titan with the Lanothians/Titanians at some point before the 31st century, and Saturn Queen herself is descended from these colonists.\n\nWhile Earth-Prime Titan is not a xenophobic world itself like Daxam and Rokyn, many Titanians, especially the younger ones like Imra Ardeen and Jeyra Entinn, exhibit a strong sense of inadequacy when confronted, on daily basis, with \"speaking\" people.\n\nAfter the conflict with Superboy-Prime, the Time Institute relocated to Titan. One of their scientists used their time viewer to witness the birth of the universe, something that is strictly taboo. The shockwaves of this event caused all of Titan to implode on itself.\n"}
{"id": "1445330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1445330", "title": "Tonghae Satellite Launching Ground", "text": "Tonghae Satellite Launching Ground\n\nThe Tonghae Satellite Launching Ground, also known as Musudan-ri, is a rocket launching site in North Korea.\n\nIt lies in southern Hwadae County, North Hamgyong Province, near Musu Dan, the cape marking the northern end of the East Korea Bay. The area was formerly known as Taep'o-dong (대포동) during the period when Korea was occupied by Japan, and the Taepodong rockets take their name from this. This single loose-surface road is susceptible to seasonal flooding. The site is 45 km northeast of port city of Kimchaek and 45 kilometers (28 miles) from the town of Kilju (길주읍). There is a small wharf located at the fishing village of Tongha-dong but can only accommodate vessels smaller than 40 meters in length.\n\nBy the early 80s, North Korea needed a flight-test facility for its program to reverse-engineer and produce copies of the Scud-B which it acquired from the Soviet Union in the late 60s. Previously, North Korea used a facility at Hwajin-ri (華進里), Pyongwon-kun, South Pyongan Province to test for anti-ship missiles and probably FROGs, surface-to-air missiles (SAMs) and other rockets. However, Hawjin-ri had insufficient range for the Hwasong-5, which would enter Chinese territorial waters during a test. The construction of the facility continued off and on throughout the 1980s and 1990s. Construction was made by the 117th Regiment under the Air Force Construction Bureau (空軍建設部) of the Ministry of People's Armed Forces. Construction of the launch pad was completed in 1985. During the early stage of construction, the site had an extremely rudimentary infrastructure, such as a few roads, a command bunker, a radar facility, and modest storage and support facilities. \n\nHowever, by the early 1990s the Tonghae site was reportedly expanded from 2 km to 9 km and the following infrastructure was added: a missile assembly facility, a fuel storage facility, a guidance and range control center, and tracking facilities. Since 1984 military rockets of the types Hwasong, Rodong and Taepodong-1 were launched from Musudan-ri. In 1998, North Korean media reported the successful launch of the Kwangmyŏngsŏng-1 satellite by a Baekdusan-1 SLV from Musudan-ri. North Korea claimed their first satellite was successfully placed into orbit, but no independent sources have confirmed this. A review of the rocket engine test stand on DigitalGlobe imagery coverage from February 15, 2002 to February 26, 2009 revealed a variety of activity, including drying grain on the concrete, the presence of cylindrical storage tanks and the arrival/departure of multiple support vehicles and personnel. A second failed satellite launch attempt apparently occurred in 2006.\n\nThe facilities at Musudan-ri are modest, consisting of a launch pad at . The launch pad consists of a 30-meter umbilical tower with a top-mounted gantry crane, a flame blast bucket, a launch blockhouse with a connecting access tunnel, two semi-buried liquid fuel storage buildings, a concrete apron/pad and multiple small support buildings. An engine test stand at , a missile assembly/checkout building at , a missile control building at and a Ground Tracking Facility (coordinates obtained from Google Earth in June, 2006.).\n\n"}
{"id": "16874172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16874172", "title": "Topographic Abney level", "text": "Topographic Abney level\n\nAn Abney level and clinometer, is an instrument used in surveying which consists of a fixed sighting tube, a movable spirit level that is connected to a pointing arm, and a protractor scale. An internal mirror allows the user to see the bubble in the level while sighting a distant target. It can be used as a hand-held instrument or mounted on a Jacob's staff for more precise measurement, and it is small enough to carry in a coat pocket.\n\nThe Abney level is an easy to use, relatively inexpensive, and, when used correctly, an accurate surveying tool. Abney levels typically include scales graduated in measure degrees of arc, percent grade, and in topographic Abney levels, grade in feet per surveyor's chain, and chainage correction. The latter is the cosine of the angle, used to convert distances measured along the slope to horizontal distances. By using trigonometry the user of an Abney level can determine height, volume, and grade.\n\nAbney levels are made with square tubular bodies so that they may also be used to directly measure the slopes of plane surfaces by simply placing the body of the level on the surface, adjusting the level, and then reading the angle off of the scale.\n\nThe Abney level was invented by Sir William de Wiveleslie Abney (Born 24 Jul 1843 Died 3 Dec 1920) who was an English astronomer and chemist best known for his pioneering of color photography and color vision. Abney invented this instrument under the employment of the School of Military Engineering in Chatham, England prior to late 1870. It is described by W. & L. E. Gurley as an English modification of the Locke hand level.\n\nElliott Brothers of London registered an \"improved clinometer and spirit level combined\" in December 1870 based on \"the old form as originally designed by Lieutenant Abney.\"\n\nBy 1871, a committee of the Royal Geographical Society recommended a long list of instruments that explorers should carry. Along with necessary tools such as a watch, compass, sextant and plenty of paper, the committee included \"a pocket level (Abney's)\" in a secondary list of \"additional instruments, not necessary, but convenient.\" \n\nIn 1914 and 1915, the \"Forestry Quarterly\" published a series of articles on the use of the Abney level. These tutorial articles remain useful today, but the primary reference for usage is the 1927 Abney Level Handbook.\n\nThe Abney level is typically used at the eye height of the surveyor, either hand-held or mounted on a staff at that height. To measure lines on a particular slope, the desired angle or grade is first set on the level and then the surveyor sights through the sighting tube and brings the cross-hair in line with the bubble in the level while viewing the target. This allows the surveyor to see if the target is above or below the line of sight.\n\nTo measure an unknown slope, the surveyor first sights a target along that slope and then adjusts the angle of the level until the bubble is centered on the cross-hair. Once this is done, the slope may be read from the scale.\n\nBecause the level is typically held at the surveyor's eye-height, it is common to use the face of a second surveyor of similar height as a target. If the second surveyor is not the same height, the approximate location of eye-height must be noted (i.e. chin, nose, top of head). Mounting a face-sized target at eye-height on a level staff may be more accurate. Because most Abney levels do not contain a telescope, direct reading from a level staff is only possible at short range, although it is possible to make special staffs that can be read at a distance without magnification.\n\nAbney levels remain in common use in several fields:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21836804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21836804", "title": "UNSW School of Surveying and Geospatial Engineering", "text": "UNSW School of Surveying and Geospatial Engineering\n\nThe UNSW School of Surveying and Geospatial Engineering (SAGE), part of the UNSW Faculty of Engineering, was founded in 1970 and disestablished in 2013.\n\nThe School has undergraduate and postgraduate programs in Surveying and in GeoInformation Systems (GIS). The Bachelor of Engineering (Surveying) is recognised by the Surveying & Spatial Sciences Institute (SSSI) as a pathway to becoming a registered surveyor, and both undergraduate degrees are accredited by Engineers Australia.\n\nThe School has strong research activity in wireless, ground-based and satellite-based positioning technology, being Australia’s largest academic research concentration in these areas. While the main research focus is Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS) such as GPS, the School also conducts research under the broad banner of ‘Navigation and Earth Observation’ including in surveying, geodesy, inertial navigation systems, pseudolites, mobilephone positioning, integrated navigation and imaging systems, and radar remote sensing.\n\nThe School has research and teaching links with institutions in North America, Europe and Asia, and School staff hold (or have held) leadership positions in international and national scientific and professional bodies such as the International Association of Geodesy, the International Society for Photogrammetry & Remote Sensing, the International GNSS Service, Multi-GNSS Asia, Surveying & Spatial Science Institute, the NSW Institution of Surveyors, and others.\n\nThe first independent undergraduate degree in surveying was established in 1957 in the UNSW School of Civil Engineering. Significant growth in the field led in 1970 to the establishment of an independent School of Surveying under founding Professor Peter Angus-Leppan.\n\nIn 1975, the School was divided into three departments, Geodesy, Photogrammetry, and Surveying, to take account of emerging technologies deriving from developments in electronics and space science, including satellite technology for geopositioning and remote sensing. A major Image Analysis Laboratory was installed in 1977 and the Centre for Remote Sensing (later known as the Centre for Remote Sensing and Geographic Information Systems (GIS)) was established in 1982, jointly with the UNSW Schools of Geography and Electrical Engineering.\n\nFrom 1983 to 1992, a number of the School’s academics were engaged in the Thailand Land Titling Project. Funded by the Australian and Royal Thai Governments and the World Bank, this project worked to entirely remap Thailand and reform its land titling system in order to reduce poverty, overcome regional income disparities and promote economic growth. This project won The World Bank Group’s Excellence Award in 1997.\n\nIn 1978, the launch of the first GPS satellite saw a revolution in the way position is measured. GPS research commenced at the School in 1984 and in the early 1990s, under Professor Chris Rizos, all GPS-related research was organised under the Satellite Navigation and Positioning (SNAP) group and was expanded to encompass other navigation technologies and applications.\n\nIn 1994 the School changed its name to the School of Geomatic Engineering to reflect its expansion of education and research beyond those of traditional surveying, to include remote sensing, geographic information analysis, image processing and satellite positioning. The name was never fully accepted within the NSW surveying profession, however, and there was a second name change in 2001 to Surveying and Spatial Information Systems.\n\nIn 2010, two separate undergraduate degrees were launched, a Bachelor of Engineering (GeoInformation Systems) and a Bachelor of Engineering (Surveying).\n\nIn 2012 the School was renamed the School of Surveying and Geospatial Engineering.\n\nSince the 1960s, the School has focused on geodesy research. Other past research areas have included photogrammetry, remote sensing, network adjustments, industrial metrology and cadastral systems.\n\nFrom 1984, the School made important contributions to the development of high accuracy (centimetre-level) positioning algorithms suitable for surveying and geodesy applications. In the early 1990s, all GPS-related research was organised under the Satellite Navigation and Positioning (SNAP) group. From 2004, this also included other wireless and inertial positioning technologies, and space techniques such as Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar (InSAR). The School’s research areas have extended to GNSS research, aspects of signal processing for the design of GNSS receivers, integrated navigation systems, new designs for terrestrial-based navigation systems and a variety of positioning/navigation applications.\n\nThe School has Australia’s strongest academic research group working in the areas of positioning/navigation and satellite radar remote sensing, with research strengths in Navigation and Earth Observation. This combines all the technologies and applications dealing with GNSS, inertial and wireless positioning systems, with ‘metric’ (involving precise geometry-based measurements) remote sensing techniques such as InSAR, aerial and satellite digital imagery, LiDAR and terrestrial laser scanning, and modern geodesy.\n\nNavigation research includes GPS/GNSS receiver design, data and signal processing algorithms, inertial navigation technologies and data fusion algorithms, other wireless positioning systems including those based on telecommunications (mobile telephony, WiFi, BlueTooth, RFID, vehicle-to-vehicle) as well as dedicated systems such as Locata Corporation, and their optimal integration to support a range of applications from farm and mining machinery automation and robotics, to precise navigation, georeferencing mapping and imaging systems (terrestrial, airborne, or spaceborne), and personal navigation.\n\nThe School’s Earth Observation research refers to a subset of remote sensing technologies traditionally linked to geodesy, photogrammetry and surveying. These include InSAR satellite radar remote sensing; digital photogrammetry using terrestrial, aerial or satellite cameras; airborne and terrestrial laser scanning; and geodesy.\n\nThis Navigation and Earth Observation research is organised across broad research themes\n\nResearch activities and unique strengths include:\n\nIn July 2010, the Australian Government’s Australian Space Research Program granted $4.6M for the SAR Formation Flying project – led by the School in a consortium of university and private sector partners and worth more than $9.6M with in-kind contributions. And in November 2010 UNSW opened the Australian Centre for Space Engineering, in which the School is a major contributor.\n\n"}
{"id": "11462035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11462035", "title": "Vathlo Island", "text": "Vathlo Island\n\nVathlo Island is a fictional location on the planet of Krypton in the DC Comics universe.\n\nVathlo Island is a Kryptonian island continent similar to Australia and populated by a \"highly developed black race\" of Kryptonians, and \"retained its independence throughout history and did not join the planetary federation, though good relations were maintained\". Black Kryptonians were first shown in \"Superman\" #234, with the island itself shown on a map in #239. Vathlo was rarely if ever referenced beyond these few issues, although a black Kryptonian named \"Iph-Ro of Vathlo\" appeared in the more recent \"\" #111. An offhand reference to the island was made in Alan Moore's story For the Man Who Has Everything, where \"racial trouble with the Vathlo Island immigrants,\" are mentioned in a dream world Krypton that had avoided destruction. It is believed, based on the appearances of black Kryptonians in recent Superman issues, that the Vathlonians eventually were integrated into Krypton proper.\n\nIn \"\" #4, it is established that Vathlo Islanders settled in Kandor prior to the destruction of Krypton.\n\nIn \"Final Crisis\" #7 an African-American version of Superman is shown to reside on the alternate universe of Earth-23. This Superman, who's given name is Kalel but adopts the human alias of Calvin Ellis is shown to originate from Vathlo Island of his reality's Krypton.\n\nWhile the island itself has not appeared or even referenced in the television series \"Smallville\", African-looking/dark-skinned Kryptonians have been featured. One was a disciple of Zod, who goes by the name Nam-Ek (portrayed by Leonard Roberts). Another was named Basqat (played by Adrian Holmes).\n"}
{"id": "405742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=405742", "title": "Web Feature Service", "text": "Web Feature Service\n\nIn computing, the Open Geospatial Consortium Web Feature Service (WFS) Interface Standard provides an interface allowing requests for geographical features across the web using platform-independent calls. One can think of geographical features as the \"source code\" behind a map, whereas the WMS interface or online tiled mapping portals like Google Maps return only an image, which end-users cannot edit or spatially analyze. The XML-based GML furnishes the default payload-encoding for transporting geographic features, but other formats like shapefiles can also serve for transport. In early 2006 the OGC members approved the OpenGIS GML Simple Features Profile. This profile is designed both to increase interoperability between WFS servers and to improve the ease of implementation of the WFS standard.\n\nThe OGC membership defined and maintains the WFS specification. Numerous commercial and open-source implementations of the WFS interface standard exist, including the open-source reference implementations GeoServer and deegree. The OGC Implementing Products page\nprovides a comprehensive list of WFS implementations.\n\nThe WFS specification defines interfaces for describing data manipulation operations of geographic features. Data manipulation operations include the ability to:\n\n\nThe basic Web Feature Service allows querying and retrieval of features. A transactional Web Feature Service (WFS-T) allows creation, deletion, and updating of features.\n\nA WFS describes discovery, query, or data transformation operations. The client generates the request and posts it to a web feature server using HTTP. The web feature server then executes the request. The WFS specification uses HTTP as the distributed computing platform, although this is not a hard requirement.\n\nThere are two encodings defined for WFS operations:\n\nIn the taxonomy of Web Services, WFS is best categorized as a non-RESTful RPC type service.\n\nThe WFS Web Feature Services or Web Feature Server specification supports two communication models:\n\nThe Web Notification Service (WNS) is one of the implementation specifications for the Pub/Sub model. Regardless of the model, URL format is used and specified in the WFS specification. At this time there are no open-standard implementations of WNSs. Vendors plan to release implementations once the standard has been ratified.\n\nData passed between a Web Feature Server and a client is encoded with Geography Markup Language (GML), an XML dialect which can be used to model geographic features.\n\nThe 1.0.0 version of the WFS specification requires the use of GML version 2.1.2, while the 1.1.0 version of the WFS specification requires the use of GML version 3.1.1. For both versions of the WFS specification, an arbitrary number of other encodings can also be defined, in addition to the required GML 2.1.2 or 3.1.1 format (for 1.0.0 and 1.1.0 respectively).\n\nGML 2.1.2 contains encoding support for basic geometric 'primitives': points, lines, polygons, etc.\n\nGML 3.1.1 contains encoding support for more advanced geometric representations: curves, surfaces, multi-dimensions (time, elevation, multi-band imagery). In addition, GML 3.1.1 includes encoding support for topologically integrated datasets.\n\nThe static interface model for the OGC Web Service model appears in the figure below.\n\nThe Transaction and LockFeature operations are also optional.\n\nWhen writing a WFS, you must implement the following operations:\n\nThe client gets updates by one of two mechanisms:\n\nWFS dynamic interface web notification model\n\nThis model uses the OGC Web Notification Service to send update notifications to registered clients.\n\n\n"}
