{"id": "12662529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12662529", "title": "Anti-Gold Futures Act of 1864", "text": "Anti-Gold Futures Act of 1864\n\nThe Anti-Gold Futures Act of 1864 () was the first instance of United States Federal regulation of derivatives. More formally titled \"An Act to Prohibit Certain Sales of Gold and Foreign Exchange,\" the Act was passed by Congress on June 17, 1864.\n\nIt was a response to Congressional perceptions that the low value the fiat currency greenbacks were then trading at relative to gold was as a result of a failure of the private market. The Act prohibited the trading of gold futures, and also criminalized the sale of foreign exchange more than ten days in the future. Congress's action was followed by a further sharp drop in the value of the greenbacks. Two weeks later Congress repealed the act.\n"}
{"id": "35369990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35369990", "title": "Audio forensics", "text": "Audio forensics\n\nAudio forensics is the field of forensic science relating to the acquisition, analysis, and evaluation of sound recordings that may ultimately be presented as admissible evidence in a court of law or some other official venue.\n\nAudio forensic evidence may come from a criminal investigation by law enforcement or as part of an official inquiry into an accident, fraud, accusation of slander, or some other civil incident.\n\nThe primary aspects of audio forensics are establishing the \"authenticity\" of audio evidence, performing \"enhancement\" of audio recordings to improve speech intelligibility and the audibility of low-level sounds, and \"interpreting and documenting\" sonic evidence, such as identifying talkers, transcribing dialog, and reconstructing crime or accident scenes and timelines.\n\nModern audio forensics makes extensive use of digital signal processing, with the former use of analog filters now being obsolete. Techniques such as adaptive filtering and discrete Fourier transforms are used extensively.\n\nRecent advances in audio forensics techniques include voice biometrics and electrical network frequency analysis.\n\n"}
{"id": "850947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=850947", "title": "Bridge House Estates", "text": "Bridge House Estates\n\nThe Bridge House Estates is a charitable trust, established in 1282 by the City of London Corporation in London, England. It was originally established to maintain London Bridge and, subsequently, other bridges. Funded by bridge tolls and charitable donations, the trust acquired an extensive property portfolio which made it more than self-sufficient. As well as maintaining the bridges, the estates also makes other charitable grants through the City Bridge Trust, their grant-making arm. It is one of three funds managed by the City of London, the other two being the City Fund and the City's Cash.\n\nSince it was established, the trust has maintained, and on several occasions replaced, London Bridge. The trust also built Blackfriars Bridge and Tower Bridge, and purchased Southwark Bridge from the toll-exacting private company that built it. Most recently it took over ownership and maintenance of the new pedestrian-only Millennium Bridge, having provided a large amount of the funding for its construction.\n\nUntil 1995, the trust was permitted to use its income only for expenditure on its bridges. However, with a surplus of income over expenditure, a cy-près scheme was adopted in that year to allow any surplus income to be used for other charitable purposes benefiting Greater London. These grants are made though the City Bridge Trust.\n\nThe Trust took its name from \"Bridge House\", which was the administrative and maintenance centre of Old London Bridge located on the south bank of the River Thames, near the site of St Olave's Church (since replaced by \"St Olaf House\" in Tooley Street). The site, now covered by the London Bridge Hospital and the Cotton's Centre, was constituted of at least two properties in Southwark. The first was that of Peter de Colechurch, the warden of the bridge from 1163, and probably a monastic dwelling. The second property was the house left by will of Henry Fitz Ailwyn, first named Mayor of London, in 1215.\n\nThe bridge became part of the City's jurisdiction from 1282, and this led to the City attempting to extend control over Southwark, succeeding in acquiring the 'vill of Southwark' alias the Guildable Manor in 1327.\n\nKnown as the \"Bridge Mark\", the logo of Bridge House Estates is one of the oldest logos in continuous use and can be found carved into stonework in many places along the riverfront. It has been the identifying emblem of the Bridge House Estates for many centuries, but the latter now uses the City of London arms as an emblem. The City Bridge Trust uses the mark as a logo.\n\nIt was thought likely that the mark as we know it today was designed by a famous 17th-century surveyor, William Leybourn. It appears drawn on a plan of 1680 which it is thought he adapted from a similar mark drawn against plots owned by Bridge House Estates on an earlier plan of St George's Fields in Southwark. The City sword rest from the church of St Olave, Southwark (now in the north transept of Southwark Cathedral) has the Bridge Mark carved onto it to balance the City's shield, and shows a date of 1674.\n\nThe trust was established by Royal Charter in 1282, and the sole trustee is the City of London Corporation. The trustee does not own the property of the trust — it may only be used for the legitimate purposes for which the fund was created.\n\nThe Bridge House Estates are run by a committee of the City of London Corporation (\"The City Lands & Bridge House Estates\"), the chairman of which holds the title of Chief Commoner and therefore cannot be an Alderman. The chairmanship is held for only one year as the responsibilities are so onerous.\n\nIn addition to its Royal Charter of 1282, the Bridge House Estates operates with respect to various legislative powers e.g. the \"Blackfriars Bridge Act 1863\", the \"Blackfriars and Southwark Bridge Act 1867\", the \"Corporation of London (Tower Bridge) Act 1885\" for its maintenance role and for its general charitable role under the \"Charities (The Bridge House Estates) Order 1995\" (Statutory Instrument 1047), and the \"Charities (The Bridge House Estates) Order 2001\" (Statutory Instrument 4017).\n\nOriginally funded by tolls on London Bridge, the rents and leases of the buildings that were on it and also by charitable donations, the Bridge House Estates acquired an extensive property portfolio which made it self-sufficient.\n\nThe Fund administered by the Bridge House Estates is solely responsible for the five City Bridges. There is no financial support from the Government or any other fund. If one of the bridges happened to collapse, the Charity would have to rebuild it out of the endowment. The good stewardship of the property and investments of the Estates by the City has led to the accumulation of surplus funds over any such demand on its resources. Therefore, the City sought from the Charity Commission to implement a Cy-près scheme to extend its objects (purposes) since September 1995 to make charitable grants within the Greater London area.\n\nIn 2003, total income of the Bridge House Estates was nearly £35 million (£ as of ), and total expenditure and reinvestment was under £29 million (£ as of ). The total funds held by the Estates are in excess of £500 million.\n\n"}
{"id": "32483058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32483058", "title": "Broad Group", "text": "Broad Group\n\nBroad Group is a private manufacturer of central air conditioning non-electric absorption chillers that are powered by natural gas and waste heat based in Changsha, China. It is also the parent company of Broad Sustainable Building, a prefab building company. The company was established in 1996 and exports products to over 60 countries. It was Shanghai Expo 2010's only global official partner that was a Chinese private enterprise and the exclusive supplier of central air conditioning, ventilation and air purification products for the event.\n\nBroad is one of the few Chinese manufacturing companies that has been widely recognized for its green policies and commitment to countering climate change. It has expanded its business in recent years to include other energy saving products and sustainable buildings through its subsidiary Broad Sustainable Building, and achieved the feat of building a 15-story tall hotel in 6 days, which received 2 million views in the first 10 days after being released on YouTube. More recently, the firm succeeded in erecting a 30-story hotel in 15 days. \n\nBorn in Changsha in 1960, Zhang Yue was unable to attend school until he was nine years old thanks to the Cultural Revolution, which temporarily shut down most schools in the country. \nZhang Yue worked as a librarian and teaching drawing at primary school. Zhang Yue founded Broad in 1988, registering the company in Chenzhou, Hunan province. Using his saving of $3000, Broad developed industrial boilers based on Zhang's patented design. In the 1980's most domestically manufactured boilers were of poor quality and had high risk of exploding, while Broad's did not. His current wealth is estimated at $1,5 billion.\n\nIn 1992, the company was moved to Changsha and began manufacturing absorption chillers. At the time, government provided incentives for non-electric chillers to relieve strain on the national electricity grid, contributing to the company's rise as it became the global leader in absorption chiller by sales in 1996; it entered the international market in 1998 and today, its sales in domestic and international markets split evenly.\n\nWhile absorption chillers remain Broad's largest source of revenue, it now offers other environmentally friendly products including air purifiers and air conditioner terminals, with the BSB (Broad Sustainable Building) its latest invention in sustainable building technology, receiving more attention.\n\nBSB, the building construction subsidiary of Broad group, announced plans to build Sky City One, the world's tallest tower with a height of 838m. The announcement made headlines not only for the size of the tower, but also for an audacious construction plan that involved completion in just 90 days.\n\nIn 2015, BSB built a 57-storey Mini Sky City that stands at a height of 204m. The construction of the tower took just 19 days. Tower was built using pre-manufactured steel modules which are also going to be used in construction of the Sky City One.\n\nInvented in 2009, the BSB achieves high energy efficiency and carbon reduction primarily through thermal insulation, preventing cool air from leaving indoors and hot air from coming in from outdoors when the weather is hot and vice versa when the weather is cold, and requires short construction time since parts are pre-fabricated in factories and assembled onsite. In the 2010 United Nations Climate Change Conference, President of Mexico, Felipe Calderón, commented the BSB technology to be \"a practical, imaginative, creative & bold endeavor\" and \"a new revolution of world's architectural and housing industry\", which is bound to be transferred to developing countries leading to reduction in carbon emissions. BSB has also been tested to be able to resist a 9.0 magnitude earthquake and was recommended in a United Nations Environment Program report on the rebuilding of Sichuan after its catastrophic earthquake in 2008\n\nSo far, Broad has built 4 demos of BSB, including: the 6-story Broad Pavilion in Shanghai Expo 2010 in 1 day, the 14-story New Ark's Hotel in Broad's headquarters in 6 days, the Broad Pavilion in 2010 United Nations Climate Change Conference in 8 days and a 30-story hotel prototype near Dongting lake in 15 days.\n\nIn May, 2011, Broad's founder and chairman, Zhang Yue, was awarded the Champions of the Earth Award (Entrepreneurial Vision Category) by the United Nations Environment Programme for Broad's commitment to climate change. It was one of the ten companies to be recognized by the BusinessWeek Greener China Business Awards in 2009. It was also named one of the \"20 Most Admired Companies in China\" in 2001, ’02, ’04, and ’05 by China's Economic Observer and Peking University.\n\nIn 2000, amid temporary company sales drop, and huge demands for cooling equipment of all kinds in China, Zhang was urged to enter the much larger market for electric air conditioners. Zhang refused citing that after successfully challenging himself to create wealth when the company was started, his current only motive was to \"save energy and reduce greenhouse emissions.\"ref name= \"UNEP\"></ref> A Carnegie Council article cited a 2004 Peking University–Richard Ivey School of Business case study on Zhang's decision and reports \"\"the authors argue that Broad would likely have gained \"a significant market share\" and earned \"10 times\" its production cost in this product area—but in doing so it would not have been able to \"stay true to the company's environmental protection principles.\"'\" \n\nBroad has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2001 and in October 2008, Broad formally joined The Climate Group, being among the first group of Chinese global members.\n\n"}
{"id": "5286374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5286374", "title": "Brussels Conference Act of 1890", "text": "Brussels Conference Act of 1890\n\nThe Brussels Conference Act of 1890 (full title: Convention Relative to the Slave Trade and Importation into Africa of Firearms, Ammunition, and Spiritous Liquors) was a collection of anti-slavery measures signed in Brussels on 2 July 1890 (and which entered into force on 31 August 1891) to, as the act itself puts it, \"put an end to Negro Slave Trade by land as well as by sea, and to improve the moral and material conditions of existence of the native races\". The negotiations for this act arose out of the Brussels Anti-Slavery Conference 1889–90. The act was specifically applicable to those countries \"who have possessions or Protectorates in the conventional basin of the Congo\", to the Ottoman Empire and other powers or parts who were involved in slave trade in East African coast, Indian Ocean and other areas.\n\nFor example, Article 21 describes the zone in which measures should be taken, referring to \"the coasts of Indian Ocean (including the Persian Gulf and the Red Sea), the Belouchistan up to Tangalane (Quilimane)... \" and Madagascar. The Act provided for the establishment of a relevant International Bureau in Zanzibar.\n\nIn Art. 68, \"the Powers recognize the high value of the Law on the prohibition of Slave Trafficing of blacks, issued by His Majesty The Emperor of the Ottomans on 4–16 Dec. 1889, and are assured that a surveillance action will be taken by the Ottoman authorities, especially in the western part of Arabia and on the routes that keep that coast in communication with other possessions of His Imperial Majesty in Asia.\" Similar actions were called on to be taken by the Shah of Persia and the Sultan of Zanzibar (Art. 69, 70). The participants also agreed to stop sales of guns and other weapons to Africans.\n\nThe parties to the agreement were the United Kingdom, France, the German Empire, the Kingdom of Portugal, the Congo Free State, the Kingdom of Italy, The Kingdom of Spain, the Netherlands, Belgium, the Russian Empire, Austria-Hungary, Sweden-Norway, Denmark, the United States, the Ottoman Empire, Zanzibar, and Persia.\n\nThe Brussels Act was supplemented and revised by the Convention of Saint-Germain-en-Laye signed by the Allied Powers of the First World War on 10 September 1919.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52458953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52458953", "title": "California Fair Pay Act", "text": "California Fair Pay Act\n\nAuthored by State Senator Hannah-Beth Jackson, the California Fair Pay Act (also known as SB358) is an amendment to the existing California labor laws that protects employees who want to discuss about their co-workers' wages as well as eliminating loopholes that allowed employers to justify inequalities in pay distribution between opposite sexes.The bill is an extension of the California Equal Pay Act of 1949, which was originally intended to enforce equal pay.\n\nThe California Equal Pay Act of 1949 (EPA) stated that \"No employer shall pay any individual in the employer's employ at wage rates less than the rates paid to employees of the opposite sex in the same establishment for equal work on jobs\". Because of the vagueness of this law, employers are able to find loopholes and pay women in California much lower than their male co-workers. As of 2015, female workers make only 80 cents for every dollar earned by male workers thus putting the gender wage gap of 20%. Over 38.8 billion dollars is lost due to the wage gap between men and women. On October 6, 2015, Governor Jerry Brown signed the bill into law and the amendment took effect on January 1, 2016.\n\nThe new bill is set to fix many of the previous law's issues by fixing terms such as \"bona fide factor other than sex\", \"substantially similar work\" and \"same establishment\" that have allowed employers to justify the wage gap. Before employers would rely on irrelevant \"factors other than sex\" to justify the wage gap. SB358 is set to alter the term \"bona fide factor other than sex\" defense with actual legitimate factors. It ensures to employees who perform \"substantially similar work\" but are paid differently to have equal pay. It also adds onto the \"same establishment\" clause that stated that men and women must be paid equally in same workplace establishment but now it is that men and women must be paid equally underneath the same establishment of work but they don't have to be working under the \"same establishment\" as employers have been able to justify lower wages despite males doing the same job at another company getting paid more. The key feature of SB358 is that it prevents employers from discriminating against its employees who seek to discuss, disclose, or inquire about their co-workers' pay.\n"}
{"id": "39779375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39779375", "title": "Certificate of disposition", "text": "Certificate of disposition\n\nA certificate of disposition is a New York court document that indicates the current status of a case or its final disposition. \n\nCertificates of Disposition are available from the clerk's office in either the Criminal Court or the Supreme Court, Criminal Term, both trial courts in New York City. It is also available in all other city courts in Upstate New York, for example, Binghamton, New York, and Plattsburgh, New York.\n\nOnly the criminal defendant, defendants representation, or a person with written and notarized permission of the defendant, can access this court record.\n\nThere are 13 branches of New York City Criminal Courts, and five branches of the Supreme Court handling felonies in New York City. There are also 61 city courts outside of New York City.\n\n"}
{"id": "33768742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33768742", "title": "Cherokee Commission", "text": "Cherokee Commission\n\nThe Cherokee Commission, was a three-person bi-partisan body created by President Benjamin Harrison to operate under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, as empowered by Section 14 of the Indian Appropriations Act of March 2, 1889. Section 15 of the same Act empowered the President to open land for settlement. The Commission's purpose was to legally acquire land occupied by the Cherokee Nation and other tribes in the Oklahoma Territory for non-indigenous homestead acreage.\n\nEleven agreements involving nineteen tribes were signed over the period of May 1890 through November 1892. The tribes resisted cession. Not all understood the terms of the agreements. The Commission tried to dissuade tribes from retaining the services of attorneys. Not all interpreters were literate. Agreement terms varied by tribe. As negotiations with the Cherokee Nation snagged, the United States House Committee on Territories recommended bypassing negotiations and annexing the Cherokee Outlet.\n\nThe Commission continued to function until August 1893. Lawsuits, Supreme Court rulings, investigations and mandated compensation for irregularities ensued through the end of the 20th Century. Congress failed to respond to a legal protest from the Tonkawa, or to an Indian Rights Association investigation that condemned the Commission's actions with the Cheyenne and Arapaho. Commission attempts to negotiate signed agreements produced no results with the Osage, Kaw, Otoe and Ponca.\n\nThe 1887 Dawes Act empowered the President of the United States to survey commonly held tribal lands and allot the land to individual tribal members, with the individual land patents to be held in trust as non-taxable by the government for 25 years.\n\nOn March 2, 1889, President Grover Cleveland signed the Indian Appropriations Act into law. Section 14 of the Act authorized the President to appoint a three-person bi-partisan commission to negotiate with the Cherokee and other tribes in Indian Territory for cession of their lands to the United States. Benjamin Harrison became President on March 4. The body was officially named the Cherokee Commission, and its existence ended in August 1893. Section 15 of the same Act empowered the President to open land for settlement. On May 2, 1890, President Harrison signed into law the Oklahoma Organic Act creating the Oklahoma Territory.\n\nOn July 1, 1889, the Commission received its initial funding. Food, transportation and lodging were all compensated, plus $5 per diem. The commissioners received an additional $10 per diem while they were actually in service. Congress appropriated an additional $20,000 for the Commission to continue its work. In 1892, Congress appropriated another $15,000 for the Commission. March 1893, Commission got $15,000 additional appropriation.\n\nThe Cherokee Commission was to operate under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, John Willock Noble, and his successor, Michael Hoke Smith. Noble's directive to the Commission was to offer $1.25 per acre, but to adjust that amount if the situation favored it. Lucius Fairchild of Wisconsin was appointed the first Chairman of the Commission. Fairchild submitted his resignation to President Harrison after the committee's first endeavor failed in negotiations with the Cherokee. Angus Cameron of Wisconsin was appointed to replace Fairchild as Chairman of the Commission, and resigned after three weeks. David H. Jerome of Michigan was appointed to fill the chairman vacancy. The lone Democrat on the Commission was Judge Alfred M. Wilson of Arkansas. John F. Hartranft, recipient of the Medal of Honor and former Governor of Pennsylvania, became the initial third person on the committee. Hartranft died on October 17, 1889. President Harrison appointed his friend Warren G. Sayre of Indiana to replace Hartranft.\n\nThe Iowa tribe is believed to have originated in Wisconsin. To avoid white settlers on their lands, the tribe moved to Iowa and Missouri, but later ceded their land and relocated to the Kansas-Nebraska border. In 1878, the full-bloods of the tribe moved to Indian Territory.\n\nIn the August 1890 \"Report of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to the Secretary of the Interior,\" submitted by Indian Agent Col. S.L. Patrick, the total Iowa reservation population was counted at 102. Reservation acreage was reported as , west of the Sac and Fox reservation with comparable land. The population had members who were conversant in the English language, and some wore what was termed \"citizens' clothes\". Income was estimated at $50 per capita annually.\n\nLucius Fairchild and the Commission approached the Iowa on October 18, 1889, and were rebuffed. In May 1890, the Commission under David H. Jerome returned for negotiations, notifying the tribe of an October cessation to cattle grazing leases. Jerome told them the President was offering individual homesteads, and offering to take the resulting surplus land off their hands. Chief William Tohee stood firm that the Iowa preferred to keep their entire reservation for future generations. Jerome warned that failure to acquiesce would force the government to employ the Dawes Act. The Iowa felt that allotment and money was not good for the tribe, and they were still awaiting past government monies owed them. Many Iowa expressed concern about their children's forced assimilation in white schools, and were distrusting of the government. The Commission reiterated the threat of forced Congressional allotments. Jefferson White Cloud announced that the Iowa would sign the agreement.\n\nOn May 20, 1890, at the Iowa Village on their reservation, the tribe signed the Agreement with the Iowa (1890) to cede all their land, in return for $60,000 (less than 27 cents per acre) divided per capita and paid in five installments, spread out over a 25-year period. The allotment was per person. Land patents to the individual land allotted were to be held in a tax-free trust for the benefit of the allottees, for a period of twenty-five years. The allotments were to be selected by the individual tribal members within 60 days of government agents initiating the process. If any member failed to make the selection within that time frame, the selection would be made for them by the special agent. Article IX of the agreement addressed the frail situation with Chief William Tohee and his wife Maggie. Due to his blindness and advanced age, the childless couple were to be paid $350 for their care and well-being. Tribal member Kirwan Murray acted as interpreter. Congress ratified the agreement on February 13, 1891.\n\nIn 1929, the United States Court of Claims rendered a judgment that the tribe had been underpaid, due to irregularities. The tribe was awarded $254,632,59.\n\nThe Sac and Fox Nation in Oklahoma. also called Sauk and Fox, were moved to Indian Territory as a result of Article 6, in the Treaty with the Sauk and Foxes (1867). In the August 1890 \"Report of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to the Secretary of the Interior,\" submitted by Indian Agent Col. S.L. Patrick, the total Sac and Fox reservation population was counted at 515. Reservation acreage was reported as , juxtaposed between the Cimarron, North Fork and Canadian rivers. It was in use as grazing, farming and orchards. Living conditions were reported as tipis or bark houses, with their main clothing being blankets. The Fox and Sac National Council was credited with uplifting the morality of the tribe by prohibiting polygamy, and requiring lawful marriages.\n\nThe Commission under Lucius Fairchild first met Moses Keokuk and the Sac and Fox in October 1889. Fairchild offered the tribe its choice of land for the allotments, and $1.25 per acre for surplus land. When Jerome assumed the Chairmanship, the Commission returned for negotiations on May 28, 1890. Principal chief Maskosatoe was in attendance, but Keokuk, who spoke no English, led the tribal negotiations through an interpreter. Keokuk inquired about the allotment acreage and how much land the Commission wanted them to cede. Jerome cited the Dawes Act allotment directive of to heads of household, for single persons over 18 years of age, and for persons under 18 years of age. Keokuk countered with per person and a cession at $2.00 per acre. Jerome balked at the suggestion. Keokuk and the Sac and Fox National Council forced the Commission to agree to per person, regardless of age or marital status. The twist was that the Commission required land patents for only half the per person acreage to be held in trust for 25 years, with the other half held in trust for only 5 years. The deal would allow tribal members to sell half their acreage after 5 years.\n\nAt the seat of government of the Sac and Fox Nation, the tribe signed the Agreement with the Sauk and Fox (1890) on June 12, 1890 to cede their land in return for $485,000 (slightly over $1 per acre). $300,000 of the total payment was to be placed in the United States Treasury, $5,000 to be paid to the local Indian agent to be expended under the direction of the National Council of the Sac and Fox, and the remaining $180,000 to be paid per capita within three months of Congressional ratification of the agreement. The allotments were to be selected by the individual tribal members within four months of allotting agents arriving to begin the process. If any member failed to make the selection within that time frame, the selection would be made for them by the local agent. The number of allotments was limited to 528, and any allotment over that limit would result in $200 per excess allotment being deducted from the $485,000. Congress ratified the agreement on February 13, 1891.\n\nIn 1964, in response to an appeal of the tribal claim, the United States Court of Claims ruled the tribe had been underpaid, and awarded them $692, 564.14.\n\nThe Citizen Band of Potawatomi were so named because of the Treaty with the Potawatomi (1887), which promised the band full citizenship in exchange for their agreement to move to a reservation. In 1872, the United States Congress authorized the Potawatomi reservation to be in Indian Territory.\n\nIn the August 1890 \"Report of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to the Secretary of the Interior,\" submitted by Indian Agent Col. S.L. Patrick, the total Citizen Band of Potawatomi reservation population was counted at 480. The reservation was reported at , most of it between Little River and the South Canadian. The band were reported as having white blood, almost all conversant in both written and spoken knowledge of the English language. They were reported as a wealthy populace. Allotments assigned by N.S. Porter had been happening for two years.\n\nOn June 25, 1890, at Shawneetown, the tribe signed the Agreement with the Citizen Band of Potawatomi (1890) and ceded their for $160,000 (slightly less than 28 cents per acre) . An attorney had been engaged for the tribe during the negotiations. Many Potawatomi allotments had already been done in accordance with the Dawes Act. Land patents to the individual land allotted were to be held in a tax-free trust for the benefit of the allottees, for a period of twenty-five years. Those allotments, added to additional allotments were limited to a total of 1,400. The agreement stated that if additional allotments were needed, that $1 for each acre of land needed was to be deducted from the $160,000 paid the tribe, and divided per capita, for its land cession. After February 8, 1891, right to allotment ceased. Tribal member Joseph Moose acted as interpreter.Congress ratified the agreement on March 3, 1891.\n\nIn 1968, the Indian Claims Commission awarded the Potawatomi $797,508.99, as part of its ruling that the land sold in 1890 had actually been worth $3 an acre.\n\nThe Treaty with the Shawnee (1825) provided for a reservation in Kansas. The Shawnee who were living on the Oklahoma Potawatomi reservation were given the name Absentee-Shawnee, because they were absent from the Shawnee reservation in Kansas.\n\nIn the August 1890 \"Report of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to the Secretary of the Interior,\" submitted by Indian Agent Col. S.L. Patrick, the total Absentee-Shawnee population was counted at 640. Their acreage was reported as being part of the Potawatomi reservation, on fertile ground between the North Fork and Canadian rivers. They were reported as having advanced to what was considered civilized clothing, living in log houses, and owning livestock. Populace was split between two bands. The Lower Shawnee under Chief White Turkey and the Upper Shawnee under Big Jim. Allotments assigned by N.S. Porter had been happening for two years.\n\nOn June 26, 1890, at Shawneetown, The Absentee-Shawnee signed the Agreement with the Absentee Shawnee (1890) and ceded for $65,000 (less than 11 cents an acre). Big Jim of the Upper Shawnee refused to sign the agreement. The Shawnee allotments were done in accordance with the Dawes Act, and limited to 650 allotments, including the allotments made prior to the agreement. If additional allotments over 650 were made, $1 for each acre of land therein was to be deducted from the $65,000 paid the tribe. Tribal members had until January 1, 1891 to select their allotments. If any member failed to make the selection within that time frame, the selection would be made for them by the local agent by February 8, 1891. After that date, right to allotment ceased. Land patents to the individual land allotted were to be held in a tax-free trust for the benefit of the allottees, for a period of twenty-five years.Tribal member Thomas W. Alford acted as interpreter.Congress ratified the agreement on March 3, 1891.\n\nIn 1999, the Supreme Court of the United States ruled that only the Potawatomi had proprietary rights to the reservation land ceded in 1890, so the Absentee-Shawnee were unable to share in the 1968 award for under payment.\n\nThe 1851 Treaty of Fort Laramie set the Cheyenne and Arapaho boundaries as between the North Platte and the Arkansas rivers in Colorado. The 1861 Treaty of Fort Wise ceded most of the tribal land from the 1851 treaty. In the 1865 Treaty of Little Arkansas, the tribes were removed to the southern boundary of Kansas. The Treaty of Medicine Lodge, signed by the southern Arapaho and Cheyenne on October 28, 1867, assigned the two tribes to live on the same reservation within the Cherokee Outlet, and also stipulated that any land cession required the signature of three-fourths of all the adult males of the reservation population.\n\nIn the August 1890 \"Report of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to the Secretary of the Interior,\" submitted by Indian Agent Charles F. Ashley, the total reservation population was Cheyenne 2, 272 and Arapaho 1,100. There had been much trouble with the Dog Soldiers preventing rations being issued to those who allowed their children to be enrolled in school.\n\nThe Ghost Dance religion, as practiced by a Northern Paiute named Wovoka made its influence felt among the Arapaho at this time. Wovoka was the son of a prophet named Tavibo, and according to historian James Mooney, was considered \"The Messiah\" of the Ghost Dance. The Cheyenne first learned about this Messiah in 1889. He was alleged to live near the Shoshone in Wyoming and would bring back the buffalo and remove the white people from tribal land. A delegation led by Porcupine was sent to observe the Ghost Dance. In his account upon their return, Porcupine had become a full believer in both the Messiah and the dance. When questioned by the military authority, Porcupine gave a total accounting, but Mooney notes that in his enthusiasm, Porcupine might have embellished a bit. Some abandoned their work in favor of the dancing. Agent Ashley tried to put a halt to it.\n\nOn July 5, 1890, the Commission held a preliminary meeting with Old Crow, Whirlwind and Little Medicine, all opposed to cession. Jerome received instructions from Noble to follow the Treaty of Medicine Lodge directive in getting three-fourths of adult males to sign the agreement. On July 7, the Commission opened negotiations with the 1887 Dawes Act, which empowered the President to make allotments. The tribes refused to negotiate, citing their land as having been given to them by the Great Spirit and by the terms of the Treaty of Medicine Lodge. At the July 9 meeting, Sayre presented the Commission's proposal and told the tribes they, \"...will be the richest people on earth.\" The crowd balked. On July 14, Jerome threatened the government's right to cut off rations. The Cheyenne began boycotting the sessions on July 15. Both Jerome and Sayre threatened them with the Dawes Act. On July 21, the Arapaho Army scouts walked out of the negotiations.\nJerome, Sayre and Noble met in New York to agree on requests for the President: 1) Amend the Dawes Act to implement a time limit for acceptance; 2) Forbid outside cattle on the land; and 3) Cancel the attorney contracts if the attorneys were influencing the tribal resistance. Noble learned that Cheyenne chiefs Whirlwind, Old Crow, Little Medicine, Howling Wolf and Little Big Jake were in disagreement with the Commission over the attorney contract. On October 7, the Cheyennes boycotted the negotiations, and the Arapaho refused to continue.\n\nCollecting of signatures began in Darlington, on October 13. By November 12, Noble declared sufficient signatures for the Agreement with the Cheyenne and Arapaho (1890). Tribal members complained of fraud, citing signatures of women and underage males counted. It was also alleged that rather than counting the number of signatures separately by tribe, the Commission had used the aggregate total halved. Under the terms of the agreement signed October 1890, the tribes were to receive $1,500,000. Two payments were to be $250,000 each, and the remaining $1,000,000 to be retained by the Treasury of the United States at five percent interest. Allotments of per person were to be selected by the individual tribal members within 90 days of Congressional ratification of the agreement. Failed to make the selection within the time frame, would cede selection for them to the local agent. Land patents to the individual land allotted were to be held in a tax-free trust for the benefit of the allottees, for a period of twenty-five years. Congress ratified the agreement on March 3, 1891.\n\nFormer Indian agents John D. Miles and D.B. Dwyer, Secretary Noble's law firm associate M.J. Reynolds, and former Kansas Governor Samuel J. Crawford were contracted by the tribes, and approved by Secretary Noble, to represent the Cheyenne and Arapho. Their original fees were 10% of the cession agreement, deducted from the second cash installment paid to the tribes. Jerome questioned the wisdom of having attorneys whom the tribes distrusted as acting solely in the government's interest. Noble and the attorneys revised their contracts to adjust the 10% commission to a sliding scale. When the tribes refused to deal with contracted attorneys, the team of lawyers mainly assisted with the gathering of signatures to approve the contract. The government deducted $67,000 for attorneys fees from the 1892 second installment payment to the Cheyenne and Arapaho.\n\nThe deduction for attorney fees, led the tribes to address the grievance to the government. Among their supporters were John H. Seger, former Indian agent Captain J.M. Lee, and Charles Painter of the Indian Rights Association. Painter's investigative findings were published by the Indian Rights Association in 1893 as \"Cheyennes and Araphos Revisited and a Statement of Their Contract with Attorneys\". Therein, Captain Lee accused the contractual arrangement as being \"...misrepresentation, fraud and bribery.\" Painter also accused the attorneys of bribery, and of causing the tribes to lose three-fourths of the value of their land. As a result of the investigation, Congress did nothing. In 1951, the tribes brought suit against the United States, through the Indian Claims Commission. The findings were that the involved were worth $23,500,000 at the time of the agreement. The tribes reached a settlement with the government in the amount of $15,000,000.\n\nArticle 9 of the Treaty with the Choctaw and Chickasaw (1855) provided for the United States to lease the area between the 98th and 100th Meridians and the South Canadian River and Red River, for the purpose of permanent settlement of the Wichita and other tribes, and became officially titled the Leased District. After the Civil War, Article 3 of the Treaty with the Choctaw and Chickasaw (1866) ceded the Leased District to the United States for the sum of $300,000. In 1867, the Kiowa and Comanche received reservations in the district. In 1868, the Wichita and Caddo received district reservations. The Cheyenne and Arapaho received district reservations in 1869. Because the Wichita felt threatened by having these other tribes so near to them, in 1872 the government negotiated an agreement with the Wichita to increase their own reservation to . The agreement was never ratified by Congress, and the Wichita claim to the acreage would become a point of legal dispute with the Choctaw and Chickasaw upon the signing of the Commission agreement with the Wichita.\n\nIn the August 1890 \"Report of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to the Secretary of the Interior,\" submitted by Indian Agent Charles E. Adams, the total Wichita reservation population of 991 was divided into six bands: 174 Wichitas, 538 Caddo, 150 Tawakoni, 66 Kichai, 95 Delaware and 34 Waco.\n\nThe Commission opened negotiations with the Wichita on May 9, 1891, by presenting the dictates of the Dawes Act, and asking the Wichita to commit to cession. David Jerome was immediately challenged by Tawakoni Jim, who argued for an attorney to represent the tribes. Jerome tried to dissuade the idea as a waste of money and time. Tawakoni Jim also challenged the acreage being offered under allotments. Caddo Jake stated that the priority should be educating the children before any negotiations could take place. Comments from tribal members reflected on the distrust of the government's word, based on broken treaty promises of the past. Caddo Jake made reference to the indigenous people's experience with Christopher Columbus, which provoked a retort from Jerome that Christopher Columbus had never been on the North American continent. Caddo Jake would also draw the parallel between the crucifixion of Jesus Christ and the American tribes. Sayre presented a Commission proposal that was the standard allotment, and a payment of $286,000 for surplus land. The crowd pressed for the price per acre, and Sayre finally conceded they were offering the Wichita only 50 cents per acre. When it became evident that the Wichita would not negotiate without an attorney, the government produced Luther H. Pike to represent them.who had persuaded Eventually, Pike and the Wichita agreed to the Commission's terms, with the exception of the price per acre. Jerome agreed to allow Congress to set the price.\n\nOn June 4, 1891 at Anadarko, the Agreement with the Wichita and Affiliated Bands (1891) ceded their surplus land, with Congress setting the price per acre. Allotments were , and limited to a total 1,060 allotments. Each allotments in excess of that amount was to reduce the total amount Congress approved for payment of the surplus land. The allotments were to be selected by the individual tribal members within 90 days of Congressional ratification of the agreement. If any member failed to make the selection within that time frame, the selection would be made for them by the local agent. Land patents to the individual land allotted were to be held in a tax-free trust for the benefit of the allottees, for a period of twenty-five years. Interpreters Cora West and Robert M. Dunlap attested to having fully interpreted the terms of the agreement to the tribes before signing began. Congress ratified the agreement March 2, 1895.\n\nIn 1899, the Court of Claims rendered a judgment, that only the Choctaw and Chicksaw were entitled to the payment for the surplus land. The Wichita appealed to the United States Supreme Court, which overturned the ruling. The Court of Claims awarded the Wichitas $673.371.91 ($1.25 an acre) for their surplus land. When Congress finally appropriated the funding in 1902, it deducted 43,332.93 from the total payment for attorney fees.\n\nThe nomadic Kickapoo were first known to inhabit Michigan, and by the 19th Century were split between Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas. The Texas band migrated to Mexico. In 1873, Colonel Ranald S. Mackenzie, under orders from General Philip H. Sheridan, raided the Kickapoo camps in Mexico. The captured Kickapoo were forcibly removed to Indian Territory.\n\nIn the August 1890 \"Report of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to the Secretary of the Interior,\" submitted by Indian Agent Col. S.L. Patrick, the total Kickapoo reservation population was counted at 325. Reservation acreage was reported as approximately, west of the Sac and Fox reservation. It was reported that $5,000 was appropriated annually for basic medical care, supplies and farming implements. The population was reported as good farmers.\n\nThe Kickapoo were first approached by the Commission, with Lucius Fairchild as Chairman, in October 1889. The tribe was not interested in allotments. On June 27, 1890, the Commission under Jerome returned to negotiate with the Kickpoo. The tribe had since been under advisement by Cherokee Chief Joel B. Mayes, and once again rebuffed the Commission. In June 1891, the Commission returned to negotiate with the tribe. The Kickapoo refused to anger the Great Spirit by ceding their land.\n\nJerome moved the negotiations to Washington, D.C.. Okanokasie, Keshokame and five headmen were authorized to represent the tribe. A white man named John T. Hill acted as tribal advisor. On September 9, 1891 in Washington, D.C., the Kickapoo signed the Agreement with the Kickapoo (1891) to cede their lands for $64,650 (about 32 cents per acre). Their allotments were per person. and not to exceed a total of 300 allotments. Each allotment over the 300 limit would result in $50 being deducted from the $64,650 paid to the tribe. The allotments were to be selected by the individual tribal members within 90 days of Congressional ratification of the agreement. If any member failed to make the selection within that time frame, the selection would be made for them by the local agent. Land patents to the individual allotments land were to be held in a tax-free trust for the benefit of the allottees, for a period of twenty-five years. Joseph Whipple, testified that he was chosen by the Kickapoo as interpreter because of his fluency with the tribal language. He also attested that he was neither able to read nor write, and that what he conveyed to the Kickapoo was a translation of what had been read to him by Sayre. Congress ratified the agreement March 1893.\n\nQuaker field matron Elizabeth Test reported in August 1894, that most Kickapoo did not understand that the agreement meant they were giving up their land. With the assistance of advocate Charles C. Painter of the Indian Rights Association, the Kickapoo presented their case to the House Committee on Indian Affairs Painter alleged the Commission had used, \"trickery, coercion, threats and cunning,\" and had also, \"over-reached and defrauded\" the Kickapoo. In 1908, Congress appropriated another $215,000 for the tribe, but deducted $26, 875 for payment of the services of a Martin J. Bentley.\n\nOriginally a Texas tribe, the Tonkawa came close to extinction with the dwindling herds of buffalo. In 1859, the United States government moved them to the Leased District in Indian Territory. During the Civil War, the tribe aligned with the Confederacy. In 1862, the Tonkawa Massacre decimated the tribe. In 1885, the Tonkawa relocated to the Outlet in the area currently known as Kay County and served as scouts for the United States Army. The land had been conveyed by the Cherokee Nation in 1883 to the United States, to be held in trust for the Nez Perce, and later abandoned by the Nez Perce when they returned to their homeland.\n\nIn the August 1890 \"Report of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to the Secretary of the Interior,\" submitted by Indian Agent D.J.M. Wood, the total Tonkawa reservation population was counted at 76. Of this number, 14 were school children. They were described as a group who dressed in the white society's attire and attempted to speak only English. Many in the populace were identified as retired Government scouts and their wives. The agent stipulated these people should be cared for, in recognition of their government service. The only problem reported was alcohol and mescal bean addiction. The report called the Tonkawa \"ready and anxious\" to accept allotments.\n\nOn October 21, 1891 at the Ponca Indian Agency, the Tonkawa signed the Agreement with the Tonkawa (1891) to cede their entire to the United States government, in return for $30, 600 (approximately 34 cents an acre). $25 was to be paid in cash to each person within sixty days of ratification by Congress. An additional $50 was to be paid to each tribal member within six months of ratification.The remainder of the money was to be held in trust at the United States Treasury at 5% per annum, payable annually. Sixty-nine allotments of land were agreed to, plus a like allotment for any future tribal member born after the agreement was signed, but alive by the date of Congressional ratification. Land patents to the individual land allotted were to be held in a tax-free trust for the benefit of the allottees, for a period of twenty-five years. Peter Dupee, adopted member of the Tonkawa tribe, acted as interpreter. Congress ratified the agreement on February 3, 1893.\n\nThe Tonkawa hired legal counsel and claimed they had been pressured into signing the agreement, under the threat that all their allotments would be canceled if they failed to capitulate. They claimed they had demanded $1.25 per acre. Congress failed to act on their claim.\n\nDuring the 1836–1839 Cherokee removal from all tribal lands west of the Mississippi, the tribe signed the 1835 Treaty of New Echota that created their reservation in Oklahoma, \"including the Outlet\" specifically named as part of the Cherokee reservation. The acreage west of the 96th Meridian was known as the Cherokee Outlet, or Cherokee Strip. When cattlemen began leasing grazing land on the Outlet, the Cherokees levied taxes on the cattlemen. Some of the cattlemen ignored the levies, and began building fences made of Outlet timber. In 1883, the Interior Department forced removal of the fences. The cattlemen formed the Cherokee Strip Livestock Association to work with the tribes.\n\nTribal chief Joel B. Mayes was a graduate of Cherokee Male Seminary, a former school teacher, and a veteran of the Confederate First Indian Regiment during the Civil War. Before and after the war, Mayes ran a farm, oversaw his fruit orchards, and raised livestock. In 1883, he was elevated to Chief Justice of the Cherokee Supreme Court, and became Principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation in 1888. Mayes was responsible for renegotiation of the grazing lease on the Outlet. He was re-elected as Chief in 1891, and died on December 14 of that year. Upon his death, Colonel Johnson Harris was elected chief.\n\nAt the Commission's organizational meeting on July 1, 1889, Interior Secretary Noble directed the Commission to begin negotiations with the Cherokees for cession of the Outlet. The majority of Cherokees did not want to sell the Outlet land, and Chief Mayes was focused on potential increase in tribal income by hiking taxes to cattlemen. Lucius Fairchild and the Commission first arrived in Tahlequah on July 29, and made an offer for the Outlet on August 2. Commission efforts did not bear fruition, and the Cherokees were notified on December 27, 1889, that the Commission's offer was to be withdrawn. At the urging of Noble and Fairchild, President Harrison issued a proclamation on February 17, 1890 banning all cattle and livestock from the Outlet, and ordering removal of any existing cattle and livestock no later than October 1, 1890, eliminating Cherokee income from the Outlet.\n\nIn November 1890, with Jerome as Chairman, the Commission returned to resume negotiations. Empowered by the Cherokee National Council, Mayes appointed a nine-member committee: Stan W. Gray as Chairman, William P. Ross, Johnson Spade, Rabbit Bunch, L.B. Bell, Stephen Tehee, John Wickliffe, Arch Scrapper and George Downing. E. C. Boudinot acted as clerk, and Captain H. Benge acted as interpreter. By December 26, 1890, the negotiations once again aborted with no results.\n\nThe United States House Committee on Territories recommended in February 1891 bypassing negotiations and annexing the Outlet, paying the Cherokees $1.25 an acre as a settlement. In the Oklahoma Territory, judges ruled that the Cherokees had no legal ownership of the Outlet. Cherokee delegates submitted documentation as proof of Outlet ownership. The Commission re-opened negotiations with the Cherokees in November 1891. The Commission presented its basic proposal to the tribe. The Cherokees requested the boundary of the Outlet be moved from the 96th to the 100th Meridian, and that the government estimate the acreage involved in the negotiations. A main point of contention in the negotiations was the question of intruders, outside workers residing on Cherokee land, and the history of the United States failing to handle the problem. The Cherokee Nation presented a counter-proposal that called for $3 an acre. Both Jerome and Sayre ridiculed the Cherokee proposal. The Commission threatened that Congress could remove the tribe from Trade and Intercourse acts. On December 11, the Commission and the tribe came close to terms, with the Cherokees asking for $2 an acre. E. C. Boudinot continued to debate with the Commission over details, and said the tribe had a copy of the 1889 Indian Office's instructions to the Commission.\n\nOn December 19, a compromise was reached. The Agreement with the Cherokee (1891) was ratified by the Cherokee National Council at Talequah on January 4, 1892. The Cherokees ceded , for $8,595,736.12. Congress ratified the agreement on March 4, 1893.\n\nIn 1961, the Indian Claims Commission awarded the Cherokee Nation $14,364,476.15 compensation for underpayment by the government. The commission ruled that the land had actually been worth $3.75 an acre in 1892.\n\nOn October 21, 1867, the Kiowa and Comanche tribes signed the Treaty of Medicine Lodge, which removed them to a shared reservation in Indian Territory, and also stipulated that any land cession required the signature of three-fourths of all the adult males of the reservation population. Not all tribal members immediately went to the reservation. Many continued to live on the plains, only brought to conformity by the Red River War campaign. Quanah Parker and his Quahada Comanche band surrendered near Fort Sill on June 2, 1875. Two years later, Parker was responsible for bringing a renegade band of Comanches to surrender. Once on the reservation, Parker became wealthy through cattle leasing. He was paid $35 a month by cattlemen as their spokesperson, and sent to Washington D.C. to represent them. The cattlemen also helped finance the building of Parker's eight-bedroom two-story reservation Star House.\n\nIn the August 1892 \"Report of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to the Secretary of the Interior,\" submitted by Indian Agent George D. Day, the total reservation population was counted as Kiowa 1,014, Comanche 1,531 and Apache 241.\n\nThe Commission opened negotiations with the Kiowa, Comanche and Apache at Fort Sill on September 26, 1892. Jerome made an opening presentation, and Quanah Parker asked specifically how much money per acre, and what were the terms offered. Jerome stalled on the details of money. Other tribal members preferred to defer the negotiations until the Treaty of Medicine Lodge expired. At the next day's session, Parker continued to press Jerome for financial details, as Jerome avoided discussing the money. Sayre detailed the overall offer of $2,000,000 and per capita distribution. Parker once again asked how much per acre. Sayre didn't have an answer, and Parker asked him how he arrived at $2,000,000. To that, Sayre replied, \"...we just guess at it.\" Parker stated that he had heard about price per acre differential between the various tribal agreements. Lone Wolf added that many wanted to defer until the expiration of the Medicine Lodge treaty.\n\nOn October 3, Wilson cited the 1887 Dawes Act, reminding the tribes that the government could force allotment on them. Parker proposed one elected representative from each tribe meet with an attorney of his choosing, with two months to prepare a tribal proposal. Indian agent George D. Day spoke on October 5, telling the assemblage that the commissioners were their friends, and they could either accept the Commission's offer, or be forced into allotment by the Dawes Act. Jerome pointed to Parker's wealth erroneously as an example of what allotment would bring to the average tribal member. Parker had proposed that $500,000 be added to the $2,000,000 offer, and that Congress make the decision about it. Kiowa chief Tohauson spoke on October 6, saying that neither he nor many in his tribe would sign the agreement. At the final Fort Sill meeting on October 11, the Commission pressed for signatures from reluctant Kiowas.\n\nAnadarko was the location for the October 14, 15, 17 sessions, which were noted for the Kiowa reluctance to sign the document. On October 22 on Fort Sill, the Commission notified the President they had the required number of signatures for the .\n\nProtests began immediately that there had been irregularity in obtaining signatures, and that individuals had been misled about the terms of the agreement. Lone Wolf and Quanah Parker joined others many times in Washington D.C. meetings to air their viewpoints. From 1893 each succeeding Congress attempted to amend the agreement before its final ratification in 1900.\n\nOnce the Commission laid claim to a sufficient number of signatures for passage, Lone Wolf and other Kiowa alleged fraud. In October 1899, a petition of a majority of Kiowa males was presented to Congress questioning the validity of the agreement. Upon the onset of the allotment process, Lone Wolf filed a complaint with the Supreme Court in the District of Columbia, seeking an injunction against the Department of Interior. Former Congressman William Springer acted as the tribal attorney. The Indian Rights Association also became involved. The complaint alleged that the agreement was unconstitutional on the grounds that it conflicted with the Treaty of Medicine Lodge requirement of signatures of three-fourths of all tribal adult males.\n\nIn the 1903 decision, the Court ruled against Lone Wolf, stating that the Congress acted in good faith, and the judiciary branch of government should not question its motives. The Court ruled that Congress was within its plenary powers to abrogate treaties when it acts in the best interests of the tribes.\n\nThe Pawnee had four bands:Chaui (Grand Pawnee), Kitkahahki (Republican Pawnee), Pitahawirata (Tapage Pawnee) and Skidi (Loups). In 1876, the Pawnee ceded their reservation in Nebraska, sold by the United States government through a public sale. Proceeds of the sale of the Nebraska reservation were used to relocate the tribe to Indian Territory, on land purchased from the Cherokee. Surplus funds remaining after the purchase and relocation were to be credited to the Pawnee at the United States Treasury. The Pawnee owned in the Outlet, and south of there.\n\nIn the August 1892 \"Report of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to the Secretary of the Interior,\" submitted by Indian Agent D.J.M. Wood, the total Pawnee reservation population was counted at 798, of which 382 were male and 416 were female. Of the total population, 400 were considered of mixed blood. The number under the age of 24 who were considered literate was reported at 160. And 225 of the Pawnee were reported as being able to use the English language. Of , were under cultivation. The report contains a section on the Pawnee participation in the Ghost Dance, which promised to bring a new messiah to force intruders off their land, and return the buffalo. The named prophet on the reservation was Frank White, whom the agent had arrested. The agent refers to having avoided a Wounded Knee disaster. The Ghost Dance religion took root among the Pawnee in 1891, after Frank White became a convert while participating in it with the Comanches and the Wichitas. By the date mentioned in the agent's report, two-thirds of the Pawnee had become participants. Many within the tribe had given up reservation labors in favor of serving the new messiah with the dancing. When the government objected, the Pawnee practiced their religion covertly. White's arrest was a government attempt to quash the religion.\n\nIn attendance at the first October 31, 1892 Commission session were Jerome, Wilson and Helen P. Clarke, of the Piegan tribe, to facilitate the allotments. Harry Coons acted as monitor on behalf of the Pawnee. Jerome began the sessions by referring to the dictates of the Dawes Act. Jerome told the Pawnee they had no option but to capitulate, and that leasing to cattlemen was forbidden. The Pawnee were concerned about being deprived of their livelihood, and about future generations of Pawnee not being beneficiaries of the agreement. Jerome threatened them with cutting off food rations, and told them their only protection from white intruders on their land was to cede the land to the government.\n\nOn November 2, Jerome presented the terms of the government's offer. Sticking points were the $1.25 per acre being proposed, and the stipulation that of the person, only could be used for agriculture. The Pawnee wanted the with no restrictions, and $2.50 per acre for ceded land. Sun Chief had heard that Quanah Parker had negotiated $1.50 per acre, but Jerome said the Comanches only received 80 cents per acre. After five days, on November 9 and 10, the Pawnee decided to lower their price to $1.50 an acre. Jerome refused. Sun Chief offered to split the difference between the government's offer and the Pawnee demand. Jerome refused. When the tribal representatives expressed dissatisfaction with the quality of government clothing allotments, Warren Sayre offered to give the tribe half of the clothing allowance in cash. Brave Chief wanted assurances that the government would support the tribe's right to conduct the Ghost Dances. Sayre confirmed it vocally but refused to put it in writing.\n\nSun Chief announced that he had given his approval for the Commission agreement. On November 23, Agreement with the Pawnee (1892) was voted upon and signed. From the that made up the Pawnee reservation, were converted to individual allotments. ceded as surplus ($1.25 per acre). $80,000 was to be paid in cash upon Congressional ratification of the agreement. The remainder would be held in the United States Treasury at 5% per annum, with annual per capita distributions. The allotments were to be selected by the individual tribal members within four months of Congressional ratification of the agreement. If any member failed to make the selection within that time frame, the selection would be made for them by the local agent. Land patents to the individual land allotted were to be held in a tax-free trust for the benefit of the allottees, for a period of twenty-five years.Pawnee Ralph C. Weeks served as interpreter.Congress ratified the document on March 3, 1893.\n\nIn 1950, the Indian Claims Commission ruled the Pawnee had been underpaid for sale of its Nebraska reservation, and awarded the tribe more than $7,000.000.\n\nIn the August 1892 \"Report of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to the Secretary of the Interior,\" the Osage and Kaw report was submitted by Indian Agent L.J. Miles. The population on the Osage the reservation numbered 1,644. The Osage were described as being a religious people who were honest and having pride in their heritage. The Kaw on the reservation were counted at 209. The Kaw populace was described as a generous people who gave away their own possessions to others. On June 22, 1893, the Commission attempted negotiation with the Osage, and the Kaw. Neither tribe was interested in negotiating. Section 8 of the Dawes act excluded the Osage, so they could not be compelled to accept allotments. The Osage had their own government with a written constitution. The Kaw refused to entertain the idea of allotments unless the Commission was able to secure an agreement with the Ponca.\n\nIn the 1892 Indian Affairs report, the Otoe report was submitted by Indian Agent D.J.M. Wood, and the population was counted as 362, living on . Helen P. Clark had already made allotments to many Otoe. The Ghost Dance, which the agent refers to as \"The Messiah Craze\", was quashed by arresting one participant named Buffalo Black . The Otoe refused to meet with the Commission.\n\nPonca Dakota Territory land was given to the Sioux in the Fort Laramie Treaty of 1868. In 1877, the Ponca were forcibly removed to Indian Territory. President Rutherford B. Hayes denied the appeal to stop the removal, filed by Chiefs Standing Bear, Standing Buffalo, White Eagle and Big Chief. The Ponca lived on in the Outlet, purchased for $50,000 in 1878. In the August 1892 \"Report of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to the Secretary of the Interior,\" submitted by Indian Agent D.J.M. Wood, the total Ponca reservation population was counted at 567. Two hundred of the Ponca were reported as being able to use the English language.Total tribal earnings during the previous year were reported as $325.71.\n\nDuring October 1891 and spring 1892, the Commission met with the Ponca. The commissioners read the Dawes Act. White Eagle suggested the white homesteaders \"..stay on their own reservation.\" The Ponca felt there was no evidence that allotments, or lack thereof, made any difference in a tribe's standard of living. On April 12, Sayre presented the government's proposal. The Commission threatened that Congress could cut off Ponca annual appropriations. A Ponca delegation visited the Cherokee Nation for advice, but the Cherokee were unable to help.\n\nIn April 1893, negotiations resumed, during which Jerome threatened that the government can do anything it wants. On April 10, Jerome told the Ponca that they would stay until the Ponca agreed to allotments. Sayre threatened with possible cancellation of grass lease money. The Ponca held firm that they owned the land, and reminded the Commission of what happened to the Ponca's land in Dakota Territory. Jerome responded that the government would force the allotment on the Ponca, and threatened one attendee with jail. The Commission threatened to cut off all government services unless the Ponca capitulated. The Commission gave up on June 6, 1893, twenty months after they began.\n\n"}
{"id": "20054702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20054702", "title": "Children's Regional Planning Committee", "text": "Children's Regional Planning Committee\n\nChildren's Regional Planning Committees were established in England and Wales by the Secretary of State for Health and Social Security in 1970 under Section 35 of the Children and Young Persons Act 1969. They comprised one elected representative from each county and county borough council in the area which they covered and were funded by those same councils. There were eleven committees throughout England (North, Yorkshire and Humberside, North Western, West Midlands, East Midlands, East Anglia, Home Counties, London Boroughs, South East, Wessex, and South West) and one for Wales.\n\nThe task of these committees was to prepare development plans for a system of community children's homes in their area and to prepare schemes of \"intermediate treatment\" (i.e. an intermediate step to be taken before removing a child who was in trouble or at risk into care).\n\n"}
{"id": "6199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6199", "title": "Convention on Fishing and Conservation of the Living Resources of the High Seas", "text": "Convention on Fishing and Conservation of the Living Resources of the High Seas\n\nThe Convention on Fishing and Conservation of Living Resources of the High Seas is an agreement that was designed to solve through international cooperation the problems involved in the conservation of living resources of the high seas, considering that because of the development of modern technology some of these resources are in danger of being overexploited.\n\n\"opened for signature -\" 29 April 1958\n\n\"entered into force -\" 20 March 1966\n\n\"parties -\" (39) Australia, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Colombia, Republic of the Congo, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Fiji, Finland, France, Haiti, Indonesia, Jamaica, Kenya, Lesotho, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mauritius, Mexico, Netherlands, Nigeria, Portugal, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, Thailand, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, Venezuela\n\n\"countries that have signed, but not yet ratified -\" (20) Afghanistan, Argentina, Bolivia, Canada, Costa Rica, Cuba, Ghana, Iceland, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Lebanon, Liberia, Nepal, New Zealand, Pakistan, Panama, Sri Lanka, Tunisia, Uruguay\n\nSource:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7163193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7163193", "title": "Copyright and Related Rights Regulations 2003", "text": "Copyright and Related Rights Regulations 2003\n\nThe Copyright and Related Rights Regulations 2003 transpose Directive 2001/29/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 May 2001 on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society,\noften known as the \"EU copyright directive\", into United Kingdom law. As such, its main effects are to modify the\nCopyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988 c. 48 (\"the 1988 Act\") with minor consequential modifications to other\nActs and secondary legislation.\n\nThe regulations modify the concept of broadcast and broadcasting to take account of development in the internet; restrict\nthe acts which are permitted without infringing copyright (in particular acts which could be performed commercially); and\nprovide new measures for the protection and enforcement of copyright and performers' rights.\n\nOnly two EU Member States met the 22 December 2002 deadline for implement, the UK implemented the directive in 2003 but in November 2004 was convicted for non-implementation of the directive in the territory of Gibraltar.\n\nRegulation 4 provides a new definition of \"broadcast\" in section 6 of the 1988 Act as\nInternet transmissions are excepted from the definition of a broadcast unless they are transmitted simultaneously with a broadcast by other means, simultaneously with a live event or form part of a service in which programmes are transmitted at specific times determined solely by the person providing the service.\n\nThe new definition covers the old definitions of broadcast and of \"cable programme\" (s. 7 of the 1988 Act). However the\nseparate definition of cable programme is kept as there is a distinction in the dates at which copyright becomes available:\n1995-01-01 for cable programmes as opposed to 1956-06-01 for broadcasts under the previous definition.\n\nThe previous \"infringement by broadcasting or inclusion in a cable programme\" (s. 20 of the 1988 Act) is replaced by a\nnew \"infringement by communication to the public\" (reg. 6). This includes both broadcasting (under the new definition)\nand making a work available to the public by electronic transmission. A performer's rights are also infringed if his\nperformance is made available to the public without his consent (reg; 7; new s. 182CA of the 1988 Act).\n\nNeither copyright (except in a computer program or a database) nor performer's rights are infringed by the\nsimple act of transmitting the work between third parties over a network, even if the process of transmission involves\nmaking temporary copies (reg. 8)\n\nThe existing fair dealing for the purposes of research or private study (s. 29 of the 1988 Act) was limited so that it is only permitted for a non-commercial purpose (reg. 9). A similar restriction was imposed on permitted copying by librarians (ss. 38, 39, 43 of the 1988 Act; reg. 14) or archivists of folksongs (s. 61 of the 1988 Act; reg. 16) for third parties. The observation or study of the functioning of a computer program was removed from the remit of fair dealing (reg. 9) and replaced by a statutory permission to study the functioning of the program while legally performing any of the acts of loading, displaying, running, transmitting or storing the program (reg. 15; new s. 50BA of the 1988 Act). It was clarified that fair dealing for the purposes of criticism, review or news reporting is only allowed for published works (reg. 10).\n\nThe permitted use without a licence of copyright material for educational use (ss. 32, 35, 36 of the 1988 Act) was restricted to non-commercial purposes (regs. 11–13). Regulation 18 removes the permission to use third parties (e.g. outside DJs) to play sound recordings for the purposes of a non-commercial club or society (s. 67 of the 1988 Act). The exception for public showing or playing of broadcasts of music (s. 72 of the 1988 Act) was also permitted, and the Secretary of State was enabled to propose a licensing scheme covering such public showing or playing, which may be compulsory (reg. 21).\n\nNew s. 296 of the 1988 Act created new rights in respect of copyright works to which copy protection measures have been applied. This right is held concurrently by:\n\nThe right is infringed:\n\nThe new section 296ZB established the criminal offenses of:\n\nThe new section 296ZC allows the use of search warrants and forfeiture with respect to these offenses. The new section 296ZE created a remedy via complaint to the Secretary of State if a technical device or measure prevents a person or group of people from carrying out a permitted act with relation to the work. The Secretary of State may issue a direction to the owner of the copyright to take such measures as are necessary to enable the permitted act to be carried out. The breach of such a direction is actionable as a breach of statutory duty.\n\nNew s. 296ZG of the 1988 Act created new rights in respect of electronic rights management information metadata. The right is infringed by:\n\nThe infringement of copyright or performer's rights by making a work available to the public in the course of a business or to an extent which prejudicially affects the copyright owner becomes a criminal offense (reg. 26; new s. 107(2A) of the 1988 Act).\n\nA copyright holder may obtain an injunction (Scots law: interdict) against an Internet service provider (ISP) who has \"actual knowledge\" of another person using their service to infringe copyright or a performer's right. In determining whether the ISP has actual knowledge of the infringing use, the High Court (or Court of Session in Scotland) shall take into account all matters which appear to be relevant, in particular whether the ISP has received notification under regulation 6(1)(c) of the Electronic Commerce (EC Directive) Regulations 2002 No. 2013 (reg. 27; new ss. 97A, 191JA of the 1988 Act).\n\nRegulation 28 extended the right to bring action for infringement of copyright to non-exclusive licensees (it was previously limited to copyright owners and exclusive licensees) when the infringement is directly connected to a prior licensed act by the licensee and the licence expressly grants a right of action (new s. 101A of the 1998 Act).\nThe non-exclusive licensee shall have the same rights and remedies as the copyright owner would have in any action.\nThe right of the non-exclusive licensee to bring action is concomitant with that of the copyright owner.\n\nRegulation 29 amends section 13A of the 1988 Act to take account of the new definition of \"communication to the public\" so that the copyright in sound recordings expires:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33069847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33069847", "title": "Cropping (animal)", "text": "Cropping (animal)\n\nCropping is the removal of part or all of the pinnae or auricles, the external visible flap of the ear, of an animal; it sometimes involves taping to make the ears pointy. Most commonly performed on dogs, it is an ancient practice that was once done for perceived health, practical or cosmetic reasons. In modern times, it is banned in many nations, but is still legal in a limited number of countries. Where permitted, it is seen only in certain breeds of dog such as the Pit bull, Miniature Pinscher, German Pinscher, Doberman Pinscher, Schnauzer, Great Dane, Boxer, Caucasian Shepherd Dog and Beauceron.\n\nThe veterinary procedure is known as cosmetic otoplasty. Current veterinary science provides no medical or physical advantage to the animal from the procedure, leading to concerns over animal cruelty related to performing unnecessary surgery on the animals. In addition to the bans in place in countries around the world, it is described in some veterinary texts as \"no longer considered ethical.\"\n\nCropping of large portions of the pinnae of other animals is rare, although the clipping of identifying shapes in the pinnae of livestock, called earmarks, was common prior to the introduction of compulsory ear tags. Removal of portions of the ear of laboratory mice for identification, i.e. ear-notching, is still used. The practice of cropping for cosmetic purposes is rare in non-canines, although some selectively bred animals have naturally small ears which can be mistaken for cropping.\n\nEar cropping has been performed on dogs since ancient times.\n\nHistorically, cropping was performed on working dogs in order to decrease the risk of health complications, such as ear infections or hematomas. Crops were also performed on dogs that might need to fight, either while hunting animals that might fight back or while defending livestock herds from predators, or because they were used for pit-fighting sports such as dogfighting or bear-baiting. The ears were an easy target for an opposing animal to grab or tear.\n\nCropping the ears of livestock guardian dogs was, and may still be, traditional in some pastoral cultures. The ears of working flock-defense dogs such as the Caucasian Shepherd Dog (Kavkazskaïa Ovtcharka) and the Pastore Maremmano-Abruzzese were traditionally cropped to reduce the possibility of wolves or aggressor dogs getting a hold on them. According to one description, cropping was carried out when puppies were weaned, at about six weeks. It was performed by an older or expert shepherd, using the ordinary blade shears used for shearing, well sharpened. The ears were cut either to a point like those of a fox, or rounded like those of a bear. The removed auricles were given to the puppy to eat, in the belief that it would make him more \"sour\"; the ears were first grilled. An alternative method was to remove the ears from newborn puppies by twisting them off; however, this left almost no external ear on the dog. More than three hundred years ago, both ear-cropping and the use of spiked collars were described as a defense against wolves by Jean de la Fontaine in Fable 9 of Book X of the \"Fables\", published in 1678.\n\nDogs may have their ears cropped, legally or not, for participation in dogfights, themselves illegal in many jurisdictions.\n\nHistorically, ear cropping has been advocated as a health benefit for certain breeds with long, hanging ears. There is some evidence that dogs with standing ears may suffer from fewer ear infections than dogs with hanging ears. It has also been hypothesized that standing ears are less prone to damage and subsequent medical complications, especially in working dogs. Some claim that cropped ears enhance Boxers' hearing. Long, hanging ears can not function the same way as erect ears which can swivel toward a sound source. The erect shape directs sound waves into the ear canal and additionally amplifies the sound slightly. Long, hanging pinnae also impose a physical barrier to sound waves entering the ear canal.\n\nIn the last 100 years or so, ear cropping has been performed more often for cosmetic purposes. In nations and states where it remains legal, it is usually practiced because it is required as part of a breed standard for exhibition at dog shows.\n\nThe veterinary procedure is known as \"cosmetic otoplasty\". It is usually performed on puppies at 7 to 12 weeks of age. After 16 weeks, the procedure is more painful and the animal has greater pain memory. Up to 2/3 of the ear flap may be removed in a cropping operation, and the wound edges are closed with stitches. The ears are then bandaged and taped until they heal into the proper shape. The procedure is recommended to be undertaken under general anaesthesia; opponents' primary concerns revolve around post-operative pain.\n\nAmerican veterinary schools do not generally teach cropping and docking, and thus veterinarians who perform the practice have to learn on the job. There are also problems with amateurs performing ear-cropping, particularly at puppy mills. \n\nIn the USA, although tail-docking, dewclaw removal, and neutering procedures remain common, ear-cropping is declining, save within the dog show industry. However, many show ring competitors state they would discontinue the practice altogether if they could still \"win in the ring.\"\n\nThe practice is illegal across most of Europe, including all countries that have ratified the European Convention for the Protection of Pet Animals, and most member countries of the Fédération Cynologique Internationale. It is illegal in parts of Spain and in some Canadian provinces. The situation in Italy is unclear; the ban effective 14 January 2007 may no longer be in force.\n\nEar-cropping is still widely practiced in the United States and parts of Canada, with approximately 130,000 puppies in the United States thought to have their ears cropped each year. The American and Canadian Kennel Clubs both permit the practice. The American Kennel Club (AKC) position is that ear cropping and tail docking are \"acceptable practices integral to defining and preserving breed character and/or enhancing good health.\" While some individual states have attempted to ban ear-cropping, there is strong opposition from some dog breed organizations, who cite health concerns and tradition.\n\nThe American Veterinary Medical Association \"opposes ear cropping and tail docking of dogs when done solely for cosmetic purposes\" and \"encourages the elimination of ear cropping and tail docking from breed standards\". Specifically, the AVMA \"has recommended to the American Kennel Club and appropriate breed associations that action be taken to delete mention of cropped or trimmed ears from breed standards for dogs and to prohibit the showing of dogs with cropped or trimmed ears if such animals were born after some reasonable date\". Some national chains of veterinary hospitals have voluntarily ceased to perform cosmetic surgeries on dogs. The American Humane Association opposes ear-cropping \"unless it is medically necessary, as determined by a licensed veterinarian\".\n\nWhile it has been suggested the cropping may interfere with a dog's ability to communicate using ear signals, some also argue that cropping increases a dog's ability to communicate with ear signals. There has been no scientific comparative study of ear communication in cropped and uncropped dogs.\n\nSome animals, such as the Lamancha goat, have ears which are naturally small as the result of selective breeding, and some people mistakenly believe their ears to be cropped.\n\nIn other animals, small ears may result from a genetic mutation or the emergence of a genetically recessive trait, such as in Highland cattle, where the appearance of small ears, appearing to have their pinnae cropped, is viewed as a defect.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3196739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3196739", "title": "Denization", "text": "Denization\n\nDenization is an obsolete or defunct process in England and Ireland and the later Kingdom of Great Britain, the United Kingdom, and the British Empire, dating back to the 13th century, by which an alien (foreigner), through letters patent, became a denizen, thereby obtaining certain rights otherwise only normally enjoyed by the King's (or Queen's) subjects, including the right to hold land. The denizen was neither a subject (with citizenship or nationality) nor an alien, but had a status akin to permanent residency today. While one could become a subject via naturalisation, this required a private act of Parliament (or latterly of a colonial legislature); in contrast, denization was cheaper, quicker, and simpler. Denization fell into obsolescence when the British Nationality and Status of Aliens Act 1914 simplified the naturalisation process.\n\nDenization occurred by a grant of letters patent, an exercise of the royal prerogative. Denizens paid a fee and took an oath of allegiance to the crown. For example, when Venetian mariner Gabriel Corbet was granted letters of denization in 1431 for service upon the seas to Henry V and Henry VI, he was required to pay 40 shillings into the hanaper for the privilege.\n\nThe status of denizen allowed a foreigner to purchase property, although a denizen could not inherit property. Sir William Blackstone wrote \"A denizen is a kind of middle state, between an alien and a natural-born subject, and partakes of both.\" The denizen had limited political rights: he could vote, but could not be a member of parliament or hold any civil or military office of trust. Denizenship has also been compared to the Roman \"civitas sine suffragio\", although the rights of denizens were restricted by the Act of Settlement 1701, not by common or immemorial law. \n\nDenization was expressly preserved by the Naturalisation Act 1870 and by s25 of the British Nationality and Status of Aliens Act 1914. (See Early British Nationality Law.) According to the British Home Office, the last denization was granted to the Dutch painter Lawrence Alma-Tadema in 1873; the Home Office considered it obsolete when the Prince of Pless applied for it in 1933, and instructed him to apply for naturalisation instead. The British Nationality Act 1948, a major reform of citizenship law in Britain, made no mention of denization and neither abolished nor preserved the practice.\n\nDenization, as an exercise of royal power, was applicable throughout the British dominion to all British subjects. That is, it was exercisable in the colonies. For example, denization occurred in the colony of New South Wales. As in Britain, the practice became obsolete to naturalisation, with the last known denization in 1848.\n\nThe term \"denizen\" may also refer to any national of a country, whether citizen or non-citizen, with a right to remain in and return to the country. In the United States, before they were made citizens by statute, unassimilated Native Americans, although born on U.S. soil, were not deemed to be citizens of the United States or any state, but of a domestic dependent nation contained within the United States but whose members are not even nationals of it, but denizens of it, with a right to remain in and return to their reserved territories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "107913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=107913", "title": "Desert Hot Springs, California", "text": "Desert Hot Springs, California\n\nDesert Hot Springs, also known as DHS, is a city in Riverside County, California, United States. The city is located within the Coachella Valley geographic region, sometimes referred to as the \"Desert Empire\". The population was 25,938 at the 2010 census, up from 16,582 at the 2000 census. The city has undergone rapid development and high population growth since the 1970s, when there were 2,700 residents.\n\nIt is named for its many natural hot springs. It is one of few places in the world with naturally occurring hot- and cold mineral springs. Desert Hot Springs is home to the largest collection of warm mineral springs in the United States. More than 20 natural mineral spring lodgings can be found in town. Unlike most hot springs, the mineral springs in town are odorless.\n\nThe only people residing in areas north of Palm Springs prior to the 20th century was Cahuilla Indians in the village of Seven Palms. Although Cahuilla people never settled permanently in today’s Desert Hot Springs, they often camped here during winter times due to the warm climate.\n\nAccording to early homesteader and writer Cabot Yerxa in his newspaper columns published in The Desert Sentinel newspaper, the first homesteader in the area of the city of Desert Hot Springs was Hilda Maude Gray, who staked her claim in 1908.\nCabot Yerxa arrived in 1913 and soon discovered the hot water aquifer on Miracle Hill. Due to the Mission Creek Branch of the San Andreas Fault bisecting the area, one side is a cold water aquifer, the other has a hot water aquifer. His large Pueblo Revival Style architecture structure, hand built over 20 years, is now one of the oldest adobe-style buildings in Riverside County, and houses Cabot's Pueblo Museum, designated a state historical site after his death in 1965. Cabot's Trading Post & Gallery opened there in February 2008.\n\nThe town was founded by L. W. Coffee on July 12, 1941. The original town site was centered at the intersection of Palm Drive and Pierson Boulevard and was only one square mile. Coffee chose the name Desert Hot Springs because of the area's natural hot springs.\n\nDesert Hot Springs became a tourist destination in the 1950s because of its small spa hotels and boutique hotels. The city is popular with \"snowbirds.\"\n\nRealtors arrived to speculate, and thousands of lots and streets were laid out over a six square mile area. Some homes were bought by retirees and the area incorporated as a city in 1963, with 1,000 residents.\n\nDesert Hot Springs experienced periods of significant growth in the 1980s and 1990s, when most of the vacant lots were filled with new houses and duplex apartments. The city's population doubled in the 1980s and increased by 5,000 in the 2000 census.\n\nIn 1993, a 3-star hotel, Mirage Springs Hotel Resort opened in DHS. Despite good reviews and providing much needed financial revenue to DHS, Mirage Springs closed its doors in 1998. The business reopened as the Miracle Springs Resort and Spa.\n\nDesert Hot Springs High School opened in 1999.\n\nDesert Hot Springs was the first city in Southern California to legalize medical marijuana cultivation, and has since been overwhelmed by marijuana developers and growers. It was later featured in a CNBC special as California's first city to permit the commercial cultivation of marijuana in 2014.\n\nBefore development of the city began in the 1930s, Desert Hot Springs was a treeless place in the Colorado Desert.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of , of which 99.89% is land and 0.11% is water. Desert Hot Springs is nestled between two mountain ranges: San Bernardino Mountains and San Jacinto Mountains. It is located just south of Big Morongo Canyon Preserve and Joshua Tree National Park. It is located in the Colorado Desert region of the Sonoran Desert.\n\nDesert Hot Springs has a desert climate (Köppen climate classification BWh) similar to the rest of the Coachella Valley, with less than six inches of precipitation per year. Summers are very hot with days frequently exceeding in July and August while night-time lows tend to stay between . The winters are mild with days typically seeing temperatures between and corresponding night-time lows between . Heat waves during the summer months involving temperatures higher than are not unusual.\n\nSummer winds and the higher elevation keep Desert Hot Springs on average 5-7 degrees cooler than other communities in Coachella Valley. However, the winter season can be warmer due to the surrounding mountains blocking north winds.\nThe Mission Creek Fault, a branch of the San Andreas, separates two aquifers. On one side, the Desert Hot Springs Sub-Basin contains an aquifer with hot water. This aquifer supports the area's spas and resorts. Mission Springs Sub-basin, on the other side of the fault, the Miracle Creek sub-basin has cold water. This aquifer provides fresh water to the city and has received awards for exceptional taste.\n\nFrom having 20 residents in 1941, Desert Hot Springs had 28,000 residents in 2014.\n\nThe 2010 United States Census reported that Desert Hot Springs had a population of 25,938. The population density was 1,097.1 people per square mile (423.6/km²). The racial makeup of Desert Hot Springs was 15,053 (58.0%) White (34.4% Non-Hispanic White), 2,133 (8.2%) African American, 357 (1.4%) Native American, 675 (2.6%) Asian, 84 (0.3%) Pacific Islander, 6,343 (24.5%) from other races, and 1,293 (5.0%) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 13,646 persons (52.6%).\n\nThe Census reported that 25,820 people (99.5% of the population) lived in households, 118 (0.5%) lived in non-institutionalized group quarters, and 0 (0%) were institutionalized.\n\nThere were 8,650 households, out of which 3,713 (42.9%) had children under the age of 18 living in them, 3,468 (40.1%) were opposite-sex married couples living together, 1,603 (18.5%) had a female householder with no husband present, 711 (8.2%) had a male householder with no wife present. There were 843 (9.7%) unmarried opposite-sex partnerships, and 206 (2.4%) same-sex married couples or partnerships. 2,071 households (23.9%) were made up of individuals and 691 (8.0%) had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.98. There were 5,782 families (66.8% of all households); the average family size was 3.59.\n\nThe ages of the resident population range from 8,064 people (31.1%) under the age of 18, 2,712 people (10.5%) aged 18 to 24, 6,893 people (26.6%) aged 25 to 44, 5,781 people (22.3%) aged 45 to 64, to 2,488 people (9.6%) who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 31.0 years. For every 100 females, there were 100.3 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 98.4 males.\n\nThere were 10,902 housing units at an average density of 461.1 per square mile (178.0/km²), of which 4,166 (48.2%) were owner-occupied, and 4,484 (51.8%) were occupied by renters. The homeowner vacancy rate was 8.6%; the rental vacancy rate was 16.6%. 11,533 people (44.5% of the population) lived in owner-occupied housing units and 14,287 people (55.1%) lived in rental housing units.\n\nAccording to the 2010 United States Census, Desert Hot Springs had a median household income of $32,883, with 28.6% of the population living below the federal poverty line.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 16,582 people, 5,859 households, and 3,755 families residing in the city. The population density was 713.2 people per square mile (275.4/km²). There were 7,034 housing units at an average density of 302.5 per square mile (116.8/km²). The racial makeup of the city was 68.2% white, 6.1% black or African American, 1.4% Native American, 2.0% Asian, 0.1% Pacific Islander, 16.4% from other races, and 5.8% multiracial. 40.4% of the population was Hispanic or Latino.\n\nThere were 5,859 households out of which 38.7% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 39.3% were married couples living together, 17.9% had a female householder with no husband present, and 35.9% were non-families. 27.6% of all households were made up of individuals and 9.9% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.8 and the average family size was 3.5.\n\nIn Desert Hot Springs the age of the population was spread out with 33.3% under the age of 18, 9.7% from 18 to 24, 29.4% from 25 to 44, 16.5% from 45 to 64, and 11.1% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 30 years. For every 100 females, there were 96.8 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 91.6 males. Desert Hot Springs has a reputation as an active adult community, where many retirees choose to live.\n\nThe median income for a household in the city was $25,987, and the median income for a family was $29,126. Males had a median income of $27,873 versus $21,935 for females. The per capita income for the city was $11,954. About 22.4% of families and 27.5% of the population were below the poverty line, including 37.1% of those under age 18 and 15.0% of those age 65 or over, one of the highest for cities over 10,000 in southern California.\n\nDesert Hot Springs has a diverse population. Several racial or ethnic groups live there, with the largest group being of Mexican and Central American ancestry. There is a Korean American ethnic section of the city at 8th Street and Cholla Drive. Thousands of American Jews made the city their home. According to the Desert Chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), the city's population is over 10 percent African-American or Black. The city has a high proportion of Native Americans, most of whom are members of the Cahuilla tribe in proximity to the Agua Caliente Cahuilla tribal board in Palm Springs.\n\nIn the California State Legislature, Desert Hot Springs is in , and in .\n\nIn the United States House of Representatives, Desert Hot Springs is in . The 36th District covers most of the desert communities of Palm Springs, Palm Desert, Indio, Coachella, Rancho Mirage, Desert Hot Springs, Indian Wells, and Cathedral City.\n\nDesert Hot Springs is in the Riverside County Supervisor 4th District.\n\nDesert Hot Springs is served by Mayor Scott Matas., Mayor Pro Tem Yvonne Parks, and Council Members Anayeli Zavala, Joe McKee and Russell Betts. Council members serve four-year terms. The Mayor serves a two-year term and is directly elected. Charles Maynard serves as city manager.\n\nDesert Hot Springs outlying areas include non-county areas of Desert Hot Springs and nearby communities of Sky Valley and North Palm Springs.\n\nThe city of Desert Hot Springs contracts for fire and paramedic services with the Riverside County Fire Department through a cooperative agreement with CAL FIRE.\n\nIn two separate municipal ballot measures, Desert Hot Springs residents approved a utility users tax and a public safety tax by majorities of over 75 percent. Both measures provide added funding to the police department and other public safety services.\n\nAs of November 2013, the continued existence of a city police department is questionable as the city faces looming budget deficits and lack of financial reserves. Instead, the City is considering contracting with the Riverside County Sheriffs Department to manage its police department as a means to increase the number of officers on patrol and as a cost saving measure.\n\nThe city is home to windmill farms in the west and also by the San Gorgonio Pass. Growing use of solar power accompanied with many windmills make Desert Hot Springs a leading city in renewable energy.\n\nThe main economy is based on spas. Most of these are owner-operated. The mild climate and hot springs make it a popular tourist destination.\n\nIn 2001 the town filed for a Chapter 9 municipal bankruptcy. The bankruptcy was resolved in 2004 by selling municipal bonds when it faced a legal judgment of almost $6 million.\n\nDesert Hot Springs is home to a number of hot mineral water spas. During the 1950s and 1960s the town had over 80 spa hotels, often called \"spa-tels.\" From the late 1990s to the present a number of these boutique hotels have been renovated and revived. With their mid-century modern architecture they appeal to those wanting a unique hotel / spa experience.\n\nOne famous spa hotel property in Desert Hot Springs is the Two Bunch Palms Resort. In 1992 it was used as a filming location for the movie \"The Player\".\n\nIn 2001 Huell Howser Productions, in association with KCET/Los Angeles, featured the Desert Hot Springs Hotel and Spa in \"California's Gold\".\n\nAt one time there were 43 small spas (6 to 10 guest rooms) in the city. Some were located atop the hot water aquifer on Miracle Hill, where Cabot Yerxa, one of the early settlers lived. His home is now Cabot's Pueblo Museum. Across the street is Miracle Manor Retreat, one of the first spas built (1949) in the town. It was built by the Martin Family who eventually sold it in 1981 to a local legend, Lois Blackhill. Upon her death in 1996, her family sold it in 1997, to two longtime regulars and close friends of Lois', trans-media designer April Greiman and architect-educator Michael Rotondi. It was restored to its original state, with improvements and renamed Miracle Manor Retreat. They are credited with pioneering the 'boutique spa' movement in the city. The Desert Hot Springs Motel, designed by architect John Lautner is located just outside the city limits. The motel was purchased and restored in 2000 by Steven Lowe.\n\nIn 2006 the architectural firm of Marmol Radziner + Associates designed a sustainable, modernist prefab home featured in the November 2006 issue of \"Dwell\" magazine. The home served as a prototype for the firm's efforts to develop a series of prefab homes.\n\nThe Desert Star Weekly newspaper is published in the city.\n\n\nAlthough never a resident of Desert Hot Springs, Marilyn Monroe traveled to the spas here occasionally. She spent a week here shortly before her death.\n\nDesert Hot Springs lies just south of large nature preserves such as Big Morongo Canyon Preserve and Joshua Tree National Park. Surrounding areas are home to a number of species adapted for the desert climate and temperature extremes. Species include Pronghorns, Desert Bighorn Sheep, Desert Tortoise, Kit Fox, Desert Iguana, Horned Lizard, Chuckwalla, Roadrunners, Mountain lions, Raptors and Gila Monsters.\n\nAlthough Black bears are not common here, a bear was sighted on Palm Drive and Dillon Road in October 2010.\n\nInformational notes\nCitations\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "55873517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55873517", "title": "Environmental audit privilege", "text": "Environmental audit privilege\n\nEnvironmental audit privilege, or environmental privilege, in United States environmental law, is an evidentiary privilege created under state statute. The privilege protects the results of companies' internal environmental compliance audits from disclosure at trial, or in pretrial discovery.\n\nThe environmental audit privilege is meant to incentivize companies to evaluate their own compliance with environmental regulations. Proponents of such laws further argue that it is necessary to encourage such self-evaluations, because regulatory agencies lack the resources to police all the polluters in their jurisdiction.\n\nEnvironmental audit privilege statutes have been promoted by the conservative American Legislative Exchange Council, which circulates a model statute known as the \"Uniform State Environmental Audit Privilege Act\". However, most state environmental privilege laws are non-uniform, and vary greatly in their scope, exceptions and effect.\n\nThe United States Environmental Protection Agency has been skeptical of state environmental audit privilege laws, and generally requires that states limit the privilege's effect so as not to interfere with federal investigations. These concerns were heightened by the question of whether these laws would apply to state government agencies to which the EPA delegated its enforcement authority under federal law. Accordingly, in the past, the EPA has used its statutory powers in the delegation of EPA enforcement authority to discourage states from adopting excessively powerful environmental audit privilege laws.\n\nSome states do not recognize environmental audit privilege, but do provide immunity from civil penalties for the results of internal compliance audits. These states include Minnesota, New Jersey, and Rhode Island.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3492548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3492548", "title": "Equality before the law", "text": "Equality before the law\n\nEquality before the law, also known as equality under the law, equality in the eyes of the law, legal equality, or legal egalitarianism, is the principle that each independent being must be treated equally by the law (principle of isonomy) and that all are subject to the same laws of justice (due process). Therefore, the law must guarantee that no individual nor group of individuals should be privileged or discriminated against by the government. Equality before the law is one of the basic principles of liberalism. This principle arises from various important and complex questions concerning equality, fairness, and justice. The principle of equality before the law is incompatible and ceases to exist with legal systems such as slavery, servitude, colonialism, or monarchy. .\n\nArticle 7 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) states that \"All are equal before the law and are entitled without any discrimination to equal protection of the law.\"\n\nThus, everyone must be treated equally under the law regardless of race, gender, national origin, color, ethnicity, religion, disability, or other characteristics, without privilege, discrimination or bias. The general guarantee of equality is provided by most of the world's national constitutions, but specific implementations of this guarantee vary. For example, while many constitutions guarantee equality regardless of race, only a few mention the right to equality regardless of nationality.\n\nA legalist Guan Zhong (720–645 BC) declared that all persons under the jurisdiction of the ruler are equal before the law.\n\nThe 431BCE funeral oration of Pericles, recorded in Thucydides's \"History of the Peloponnesian War\", includes a passage praising the equality among the free male citizens of the Athenian democracy:\nIf we look to the laws, they afford equal justice to all in their private differences; if to social standing, advancement in public life falls to reputation for capacity, class considerations not being allowed to interfere with merit; nor again does poverty bar the way.\n\nIn ancient times, violent repression of even basic equality was commonplace. Despite the recent overthrow of the Roman monarchy and the establishment of the Roman Republic and sacrosanct Tribunes of the Plebs, Cincinnatus's son Caeso led a gang that chased plebs from the forum to prevent the creation of equitable written laws. In Rome's case, the organization of the plebs and the patricians' dependence upon them as both laborers and soldiers meant the Conflict of the Orders was resolved by the establishment of the Twelve Tables and greater equality. Nominally, all citizens except the emperor were equal under Roman law in the imperial period. However, this principle was not implemented in most of the world and, even in Europe, the rise of aristocracies and nobility created unequal legal systems that lasted into the modern era.\n\nClassical liberalism calls for equality before the law for all persons. Classical liberalism, as embraced by libertarians and modern American conservatives, opposes pursuing group rights at the expense of individual rights. Lockean liberalism (the foundation for classical liberalism) is interpreted by others, however, as including social rights and responsibilities.\n\nEquality before the law is a tenet of some branches of feminism. In the nineteenth century, gender equality before the law was a radical goal, but some later feminist views hold that formal legal equality is not enough to create actual and social equality between women and men. An ideal of formal equality may penalize women for failing to conform to a male norm, while an ideal of different treatment may reinforce sexist stereotypes.\n\nIn 1988, prior to serving as a Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court, Ruth Bader Ginsburg wrote: \"Generalizations about the way women or men are – my life experience bears out – cannot guide me reliably in making decisions about particular individuals. At least in the law, I have found no natural superiority or deficiency in either sex. In class or in grading papers from 1963 to 1980, and now in reading briefs and listening to arguments in court for over seventeen years, I have detected no reliable indicator or distinctly male or surely female thinking – even penmanship.\". In an ACLU's Women's Rights Project in the 1970s, Ginsburg challenged, in \"Frontiero v. Richardson\", the laws that gave health service benefits to wives of servicemen but not to husbands of servicewomen. There are over 150 national constitutions that currently mention equality regardless of gender.\n\nSome radical feminists, however, have opposed equality before the law, because they think that it maintains the weak position of the weak.\n\nArticle 200 of the Criminal Code of Japan, the penalty regarding parricide, was declared unconstitutional for violating the equality under the law by the Supreme Court of Japan in 1973. This was a result of the trial of the Tochigi patricide case.\n\n"}
{"id": "18742624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18742624", "title": "Executive Order 13470", "text": "Executive Order 13470\n\nExecutive Order 13470 was issued by US President President Bush on July 30, 2008. It amended Executive Order 12333 to strengthen the role of the Director of National Intelligence.\n\n"}
{"id": "42971169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42971169", "title": "Fire Research and Safety Act of 1968", "text": "Fire Research and Safety Act of 1968\n\nFire Research and Safety Act of 1968 was a declaration for a panoptic fire research and safety program advocated by President Lyndon Johnson on February 16, 1967. The Act of Congress established a National Commission on Fire Prevention and Control while encompassing more effective measures for fire hazards protection with the potentiality of death, injury, and damage to property. The U.S. statute petitioned a nationwide collection of comprehensive fire data with emphasis on a United States fire research program, fire safety education and training programs, demonstrations of new approaches and improvements in fire control and prevention resulting in the reduction of death, personal injury, and property damage.\n\nThe S. 1124 legislation was passed by the 90th Congressional session and enacted by the 36th President of the United States Lyndon B. Johnson on March 1, 1968.\n\nPublic Law 90-259 was penned as two titles: \"Fire Research and Safety Program\" and \"National Commission on Fire Prevention and Control\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "275246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=275246", "title": "First Succession Act", "text": "First Succession Act\n\nThe First Succession Act of Henry VIII's reign was passed by the Parliament of England in March 1534. The Act was formally titled the Succession to the Crown Act 1533 (citation 25 Hen 8 c 22), or the Act of Succession 1533; it is often dated as 1534, as it was passed in that calendar year. However, the legal calendar in use at that time dated the beginning of the year as March 25, and so considered the Act as being in 1533.\n\nThe Act made Princess Elizabeth, daughter of King Henry VIII by Anne Boleyn, who had been born on 7 September 1533, the true successor to the Crown by declaring Princess Mary, daughter of the King by Catherine of Aragon, a bastard. The Act also required all subjects, if commanded, to swear an oath to recognize this Act as well as the King's supremacy. Under the Treasons Act 1534 anyone who refused to take the oath was subject to a charge of treason.\n\nThe Act was later altered by the Second Succession Act, which made Elizabeth illegitimate, and the Third Succession Act, which returned both sisters to the line of succession.\n\nThe currently applicable legislation is the Act of Settlement 1701.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5559460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5559460", "title": "Hat tax", "text": "Hat tax\n\nThe hat tax, or hat duty, was a tax levied by the British Government from 1784 to 1811 on men's hats. The tax was introduced during the first ministry of Pitt the Younger and was designed to be a simple way of raising revenue for the government in a rough accordance with each person's relative wealth. It was supposed that the rich would have a large number of expensive hats, whereas the poor might have one cheap hat or none at all.\n\nThe hat tax required hat retailers to buy a licence and to display the sign \"Dealer in Hats by Retail\". The cost of the retail licence was two pounds for London and five shillings elsewhere. Each man's hat was required to have a revenue stamp pasted inside on its lining. \n\nThe cost of the duty depended on the cost of the hat. For hats costing under four shillings, a duty of threepence was paid. For hats costing between four and seven shillings, sixpence was levied, and a shilling for those between seven and twelve shillings. For expensive hats over twelve shillings, the duty was two shillings. Heavy fines were given to anyone, milliner or hat wearer, who failed to pay the hat tax. However, the death penalty was reserved for forgers of hat-tax revenue stamps.\n\nThe hat tax was not the only duty raised by the government on household items. The best known such tax was the window tax, which was implemented in 1697, and was not repealed until 1851. Other similar taxes were the dice duty (1711–1862), almanac tax (1711–1834), wallpaper tax (1712–1836), brick tax (1784–1850), glove tax (1785–94), hair-powder tax (1786–1869) and perfume tax (1786–1800).\n\nAlthough, these twenty-seven years saw rapid inflation, a shilling of that period had the purchasing power of about £3.40 today.\n"}
{"id": "242286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=242286", "title": "Honorary citizenship of the United States", "text": "Honorary citizenship of the United States\n\nA person of exceptional merit, generally a non-United States citizen, may be declared an honorary citizen of the United States by an Act of Congress or by a proclamation issued by the President of the United States, pursuant to authorization granted by Congress.\n\nEight people have been so honored, six posthumously, and two, Sir Winston Churchill and Mother Teresa, during their lifetimes.\n\nFor Lafayette and Mother Teresa, the honor was proclaimed directly by an Act of Congress. In the other cases, an Act of Congress was passed authorizing the President to grant honorary citizenship by proclamation.\n\nWhat rights and privileges honorary citizenship bestows, if any, is unclear. According to State Department documents, it does not grant eligibility for United States passports.\nDespite widespread belief that Lafayette received honorary citizenship of the United States before Churchill, he did not receive honorary citizenship until 2002. Lafayette did become a natural-born citizen during his lifetime. On 28 December 1784, the Maryland General Assembly passed a resolution stating that Lafayette and his male heirs \"forever shall be...natural born Citizens\" of the state. This made him a natural-born citizen of the United States under the Articles of Confederation and as defined in Section 1 of Article Two of the United States Constitution.\n\nLafayette boasted in 1792 that he had become an American citizen before the French Revolution created the concept of French citizenship. In 1803, President Jefferson wrote him he would have offered to make him Governor of Louisiana, had he been \"on the spot\". In 1932, descendant René de Chambrun established his American citizenship based on the Maryland resolution, although he was probably ineligible as the inherited citizenship was likely only intended for direct descendants who were heir to Lafayette's estate and title. The Board of Immigration Appeals ruled in 1955 that \"it is possible to argue\" that Lafayette and living male heirs became American citizens when the Constitution became effective on 4 March 1789, but that heirs born later were not U.S. citizens.\n\nHonorary citizenship should not be confused with citizenship or permanent residency bestowed by a private bill. Private bills are, on rare occasions, used to provide relief to individuals, often in immigration cases, and are also passed by Congress and signed into law by the President. One such statute, granting Elián González U.S. citizenship, was suggested in 1999, but was never enacted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4696273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4696273", "title": "Hostis humani generis", "text": "Hostis humani generis\n\nHostis humani generis (Latin for \"enemy of mankind\") is a legal term of art that originates in admiralty law. Before the adoption of public international law, pirates and slavers were already held to be beyond legal protection and so could be dealt with by any nation, even one that had not been directly attacked.\n\nA comparison can be made between this concept and the common law \"writ of outlawry\", which declared a person outside the King's law, a literal out-law, subject to the violence and execution by anyone. The ancient Roman civil law concept of proscription, and the status of homo sacer conveyed by proscription may also be similar.\n\nInternational waters (also called \"the high seas\") have their own customs and usage, rules and articles, and laws. Unlike the case with land, above the high-tide mark, where title, ownership, and sovereignty are created by law based around use and possession, no nation may claim as its territory the high seas, for continuous use and possession of them is impossible; as such, no nation may thus forbid trespass through the high seas. The high seas, since they cannot be owned by anyone, are held to belong to all humanity, and every nation is held to have a separate and equal right to have its ships navigate over them; this is the concept of \"mare liberum\", or the freedom of the seas. As the sea is the common property of all, the perils of the sea and of navigation are shared by all mariners, and all nations. A law of amity and reciprocity holds among the seafaring powers, especially in regard to matters related to the protection of life and to a lesser extent, property; for instance, the law stipulates the obligation of every mariner to assist those who are shipwrecked, and the obligation of every harbormaster to provide safe harbor to any vessel in need during a storm, regardless of the flag it flies.\n\nPerhaps the oldest of the laws of the sea is the prohibition of piracy, as the peril of being set upon by pirates, who are not motivated by national allegiance, is shared by the vessels and mariners of all nations, and thus represents a crime upon all nations. Since the time of the Ancient Romans, pirates have been held to be individuals waging private warfare, a private campaign of sack and pillage, against not only their victims, but against all nations, and thus, pirates hold the peculiar status of being regarded as \"hostis humani generis\", the enemies of humanity. Since piracy anywhere is a peril to every mariner and ship everywhere, it is held to be the universal right and the universal duty of all nations, regardless of whether their ships have been beset by the particular band of pirates in question, to capture, try by a regularly constituted court-martial or admiralty court (in extreme circumstances, by means of a drumhead court-martial convened by the officers of the capturing ship), and, if found guilty, to execute the pirate via means of hanging from the yard-arm of the capturing ship, an authoritative Custom of the Sea.\n\nAlthough summary battlefield punishment was conducted by certain nations at certain times with regard to pirates, it was regarded as irregular (but lawful if the attenuation of due process was dictated by urgent military necessity), as individuals captured with pirates could potentially have a defense to charges of piracy, such as coercion. For instance, in early 1831, the 250-strong crew captured off Ascension was brought to Ascension and summarily hanged, as they were acting in a rebellious manner and threatening to overthrow the 30-man crew of HMS \"Falcon\", a British sloop-of-war, which took them captive. As the summary punishment in this case was due to military necessity, there was clear evidence of the offense, and it was done proximate in time and location to the battlefield, it can be classified as merely irregular, and not a violation of the custom of the sea.\n\nIn more recent times, much of the customary law of the sea has been codified. Piracy is the broadest exception to the principle that a ship on the high seas is subject to the protection of, and jurisdiction of, its flag state. Piracy is considered an offense of universal jurisdiction, such that any state may board and seize a ship engaged in piracy, and any state may try a pirate and impose punitive sanctions in accordance with that state's own laws. Piracy is defined in Article 101 of the 1982 Convention on the Law of the Sea, and the 1958 Convention on the High Seas also regulates this exercise of jurisdiction.\n\nThe tradition of classing the pirate as \"hostis humani generis\" has been expanded to one other particular class of seafaring criminal, that of the slaver, who, by trafficking in human flesh upon the high seas, is similarly held to be in a state of war against all humanity. These treaties, as well as the customary international law, allow states to act similarly against slavers.\n\nAlthough the tradition of privateering has been in decline over the past several centuries and international treaties are held to have abolished it, privateering, or the use of private ships as raiders of commerce of the enemies of the sovereign whose flag the privateer flies, is not considered piracy but warfare against a particular national enemy, and thus does not represent a crime against the customary international law, provided those involved adhere to the law of naval warfare.\n\nThe land and airborne analogues of pirates, bandits and hijackers are not subject to universal jurisdiction in the same way as piracy; this is despite arguments that they should be. Instead these crimes, along with terrorism, torture, crimes against internationally protected persons and the financing of terrorism are subject to the \"aut dedere aut judicare\" principle (meaning prosecute or extradite). In the current global climate of international terrorism some commentators have called for terrorists of all sorts to be treated hostis humani generis.\n\nOther commentators, such as John Yoo and various U.S. Federal court, have called for the extension of this hypothetical connection of \"hostis humani generis\" from pirates to hijackers to terrorists all the way to that of \"unlawful enemy combatants\". Unlawful enemy combatants, or persons captured in war who do not fight on behalf of a recognized sovereign state, have become an increasingly common phenomenon in contemporary wars, such as War in Afghanistan, Iraq War, Chechen Wars and Syrian Civil War.\n\nThe only actual extension of \"hostis humani generis\" blessed by courts of law has been its extension to torturers. This has been done by decisions of U.S. and international courts; specifically, in a case tried in the United States in 1980, \"Filártiga v. Peña-Irala\", 630 F.2d 876, the United States 2nd Circuit Court ruled that it could exercise jurisdiction over agents of the Government of Paraguay (in their individual capacity) who were found to have committed the crime of torture against a Paraguayan citizen, using its jurisdiction under the \"Offenses Clause\" of the Constitution of the United States, the Alien Tort Claims Act, and customary international law. In deciding this, the court famously stated that \"Indeed, for purposes of civil liability, the torturer has become like the pirate and slave trader before him hostis humani generis, an enemy of all mankind.\" This usage of the term \"hostis humani generis\" has been reinforced by the ruling of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia in the conviction of a torturer in \"Prosecutor v. Furundžija\", marking its acceptance as a peremptory norm, part of the customary international law, held as jus cogens, applying erga omnes, upon any and every state and human individual without exception or reservation whatsoever.\n\n"}
{"id": "2384664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2384664", "title": "Immigration Act 1971", "text": "Immigration Act 1971\n\nThe Immigration Act 1971 (c 77) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom concerning immigration. The Act, as with the Commonwealth Immigrants Act 1962, and that of 1968, restricts immigration, especially primary immigration into the UK. It introduced the concept of \"patriality or right of abode\". It was also partly passed to legally clarify the rights of Commonwealth citizens within the United Kingdom in preparation for future membership of the European Communities which the UK became a member state on 1 January 1973 which gave new automatic rights to EC member state citizens. It is connected in relation to deportation notices, at sections 11 and 23 of the Terrorism Act 2000.\nCallum Williams argued that foreign-policy pressures led Edward Heath's Conservative government to adopt discriminatory Commonwealth immigration policy, which broke from the non-discriminatory immigration policy that had preceded it. The government saw a need to appease Canada, New Zealand and Australia over the future negative impact on them when Britain would join the European Economic Community that would be hardest on people who had immigrated from Britain in the expectation of continued close ties.\n\nOne result of the Act was to stop the permanent migration of workers from the Commonwealth. It further elaborated the definition of \"patrial\" migrants, first introduced in the Commonwealth Immigrants Act 1968, as persons born in the United Kingdom and persons who had resided there for the previous five years or longer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44238381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44238381", "title": "International Penal and Penitentiary Foundation", "text": "International Penal and Penitentiary Foundation\n\nThe International Penal and Penitentiary Foundation (IPPF; , ) is an international organisation with quasi-governmental status. It promotes studies on crime-prevention and treatment of offenders, focussing on research, publications and teaching. It has been approved by the General Assembly of the United Nations and holds consultative status at the United Nations and the Council of Europe.\n\nThe IPPF can trace its origin to 1872, when the International Prison Commission (according to some sources the International \"Penitentiary\" Commission) was set up to make recommendations for prison reform. This commission later became the International Penal and Penitentiary Commission (IPPC) and is considered the oldest intergovernmental agency in the correctional field. The IPPC was affiliated with the League of Nations and organised conferences on crime control every five years. \n\nIt produced the first set of minimum rules for the treatment of detainees (the Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners), which were adopted by the League of Nations in 1934 and approved in 1955 at the first United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and the Treatment of Offenders.\n\nAfter World War II, the IPPC was dissolved and its role transferred to the United Nations. The International Penal and Penitentiary Foundation in its current form was established in 1950 as a foundation officially based in Switzerland, and has been approved by the General Assembly of the United Nations.\n\nThe IPPF promotes studies on crime-prevention and treatment of offenders through research, publications, teaching and international meetings. The IPPF's members are experts in penal and penitentiary matters from around the world such as judges, officials in the prison system, and academics.\n\nThe IPPF holds consultative status at the UN Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, the United Nations Economic and Social Council, and the Council of Europe. It provides recommendations and advice on safeguarding human rights and improving treatment under the penal system. Among its current priorities are a revision of minimum rules for the treatment of prisoners for Latin America and the Caribbean, and prison policy and prisoners' rights.\n\nThe Council is the supreme body of the IPPF and is responsible for its administration. The Council also represents the Foundation with respect to third parties. It is composed of five members: \n\nThe work of the IPPF is split among three committees whose members are persons who have distinguished themselves in the field of crime prevention and the treatment of offenders. The Committees are as follow: \n\nThe Principal Committee (1st Committee) <br>\n\nThe Associates Committee (2nd Committee) <br>\n\nThe Fellows Committee (3th Committee) <br>\n\nThe Council appoints this external and independent body to audit the accounts of the Foundation and the submit a detailed report to the Council for its approval. This body has the authority to report any defects it discovers to external surveillance authorities if the Council does not rectify them in a reasonable time. \n\nThe following countries were original members of the IPPC, and as such are granted the right to be represented in the First Committee: \n"}
{"id": "6706780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6706780", "title": "Irish competition law", "text": "Irish competition law\n\nIrish Competition Law is the Irish body of legal rules designed to ensure fairness and freedom in the marketplace. The main (but not the only) purpose of Irish competition law is to enhance consumer welfare. The key provisions of Irish competition law: (a) usually outlaw anti-competitive arrangements between businesses and economic operators (known as \"undertakings\"); (b) always outlaw the abuse of dominance by undertakings; (c) control certain mergers, acquisitions and joint ventures; and (d) control certain activities in the grocery sector.\n\nIrish competition law is primarily statute-based with some judge-made rules (the so-called \"common law\"). The statute rules are embodied primarily in the Competition Act 2002 (which replaced the Competition Acts 1991-1996), the Competition (Amendment) Act 2006; the Competition (Amendment) Act 2012; and the Competition and Consumer Protection Act 2014.\n\nIrish competition law is comparable to, but quite different in certain key respects, from European Union competition law. There are some similarities to the anti-trust law of the United States of America but the differences (particularly in relation to merger control, abuse of dominance and the way in which breaches are punished) are substantial. So it is best to see Irish competition law as sui generis. For example, the Irish competition agency (the Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (the \"CCPC\")) may not impose fines while many competition agencies worldwide may do so.\n\nIrish competition law is enforced by the courts (which have the power to find breaches, permit unannounced visits by the CCPC) and impose penalties), the CCPC (which has the power to institute investigations and take court actions) and private action by \"aggrieved persons\" (the latter do not have to be undertakings). Unlike many other competition agencies (such as the [European Commission]), the CCPC does not, and may not, have the power to impose fines; this is due to the Irish Constitution which limits the power to impose penalties and sanctions to the judicial system (i.e., the courts); some would argue that Irish competition law is a better system for having the filter of the CCPC having to make its case to the police (the Garda Siochana) and the Director of Public Prosecutions before cases are instituted with the extra protection of the judges and, in criminal cases, juries acting as a filter to ensure robust cases are taken.\n\nIrish competition law, Irish law must not contradict or inhibit the operation of EC law, but it may outlaw things which are legal under EU law, or punish breaches more severely. It also exercises a persuasive force over the jurisprudence of Irish competition law. Due to the requirement of compliance with EU law and the similar understanding and goals, Irish Courts will examine cases and precedents in the European Courts to see how it has been interpreted or to ensure that they are consistent. EU competition law has jurisdiction over cases which affect inter-state trade in the Union.\n\nRegulation 1/2003 of the European Commission \"decentralised\" the enforcement of competition law with a number of reforms designed to increase the enforcement of EC rules in national courts.\n\nThe law is primarily enforced by the Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (which replaced the Irish Competition Authority on 31 October 2014), who review mergers, and investigate cartels and abuse of dominance by undertakings. They can fine offenders, when can be appealed to the High Court. Private enforcement is also possible. An aggrieved party may sue the offender for damages under the Competition Act. However this facility has not been exercised much, possibly due to the difficulty of gathering evidence to prove such a breach. Regulation 1/2003 of the European Commission sought to increase private and public enforcement of EC rules in national courts to allow the commission to concentrate on bigger cases.\n\nThe CCPC operates a Cartel Immunity Programme which allows for immunity or leniency in sentencing for offenders which supply information to them that allows the prosecution of other breaches of the law. The rule mirrors the European Commission's Leniency policy.\n\nIrish competition law also regulates certain mergers, acquisitions and joint ventures. Part III of the Competition Act 2002 provides that the Competition Authority must approve transactions which fall within the scope of Part III before they may be lawfully implemented.\n\nIreland has achieved considerable success in enforcing competition law by virtue of successful criminal prosecutions against various individuals and companies. It has almost thirty convictions for competition law breaches including jury convictions for cartel-related activity.\n\n\n\nIrish Competition Authority's website\n"}
{"id": "12294930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12294930", "title": "John H. Langbein", "text": "John H. Langbein\n\nJohn Harriss Langbein (born 1941) is the Sterling Professor of Law and Legal History at Yale Law School. He is an expert in the fields of trusts and estates, comparative law, and Anglo-American legal history. \n\nProfessor Langbein earned his A.B. in Economics from Columbia University in 1964; his LL.B. \"magna cum laude\" in 1968 from Harvard Law School; and a second LL.B. in 1969 and a Ph.D. in 1971 from Trinity Hall, Cambridge. His Cambridge Ph.D. thesis, \"The Criminal Process in the Renaissance,\" was awarded the Yorke Prize. He also received an honorary M.A. degree in 1990 from Yale University. His first appointment was at the University of Chicago Law School, where he taught from 1971 to 1990. After being named Max Pam Professor of American and Foreign Law, he moved to Yale, where he eventually became a Sterling Professor, the highest-ranking appointment at Yale University.\n\nIn the field of trusts and estates, Professor Langbein is known for his scholarship advocating greater flexibility in the application of the Wills Act formalities, work which led to the adoption of the \"harmless error\" standard in the Uniform Probate Code. He has also called attention to the trend whereby human capital has replaced physical capital as the dominant form of wealth transmitted from parent to child. In the fields of comparative law and legal history, he is best known for his critique of the common-law jury and adversarial procedure, which he considers inferior to the Continental alternatives, especially the German system.\n\nProfessor Langbein is the author of numerous books and articles. He has focused in particular on the history of criminal procedure, comparing the Anglo-American tradition to that of the European Continent. His article, \"The Prosecutorial Origins of Defence Counsel in the Eighteenth Century: The Appearance of Solicitors,\" was awarded the Sutherland Prize by the American Society for Legal History in 2000. He is also a coauthor of the leading casebook on American pension law, \"Pension & Employee Benefit Law\" (4th ed. 2006). \n\nProfessor Langbein has long been active in law reform. He has served as an Associate Reporter for the \"Restatement of Property (Third): Wills and Other Donative Transfers\", and is an adviser to the \"Restatement (Third) of Trusts\". He is also a Commissioner of the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, and has served on the drafting committees for several uniform acts, including the Uniform Prudent Investor Act (1994), for which he was the Reporter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52349689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52349689", "title": "Jungle justice", "text": "Jungle justice\n\nJungle justice or mob justice is a form of public extrajudicial killings in Sub-Saharan Africa, most notably Nigeria and Cameroon, where an alleged criminal is humiliated, beaten or summarily executed by a crowd or vigilantes. Treatments can vary from a \"muddy treatment\", where the perceived perpetrator is made to roll in mud for hours to severe beatings followed by necklacing. This form of street justice occurs where a dysfunctional and corrupt judiciary system and law enforcement have \"lost all credibility. European principles of justice have likewise become discredited.\"\n\nNotable examples include the Bakassi Boys and the Aluu four lynching.\n"}
{"id": "37447771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37447771", "title": "Legal expert system", "text": "Legal expert system\n\nA legal expert system is a domain-specific expert system that uses artificial intelligence to emulate the decision-making abilities of a human expert in the field of law. Legal expert systems employ a rule base or knowledge base and an inference engine to accumulate, reference and produce expert knowledge on specific subjects within the legal domain.\n\nIt has been suggested that legal expert systems could help to manage the rapid expansion of legal information and decisions that began to intensify in the late 1960s. Many of the first legal expert systems were created in the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nLawyers were originally identified as primary target users of legal expert systems. Potential motivations for this work included:\n\n\nSome early development work was oriented toward the creation of automated judges.\n\nLater work on legal expert systems has identified potential benefits to non-lawyers as a means to increase access to legal knowledge.\n\nLegal expert systems can also support administrative processes, facilitating decision making processes, automating rule-based analyses and exchanging information directly with citizen-users.\n\nRule-based expert systems rely on a model of deductive reasoning that utilizes \"if A, then B\" rules. In a rule-based legal expert system, information is represented in the form of deductive rules within the knowledge base.\n\nCase-based reasoning models, which store and manipulate examples or cases, hold the potential to emulate an analogical reasoning process thought to be well-suited for the legal domain. This model effectively draws on known experiences our outcomes for similar problems.\n\nA neural net relies on a computer model that mimics that structure of a human brain, and operates in a very similar way to the case-based reasoning model. This expert system model is capable of recognizing and classifying patterns within the realm of legal knowledge and dealing with imprecise inputs.\n\nFuzzy logic models attempt to create 'fuzzy' concepts or objects that can then be converted into quantitative terms or rules that are indexed and retrieved by the system. In the legal domain, fuzzy logic can be used for rule-based and case-based reasoning models.\n\nWhile some legal expert system architects have adopted a very practical approach, employing scientific modes of reasoning within a given set of rules or cases, others have opted for a broader philosophical approach inspired by jurisprudential reasoning modes emanating from established legal theoreticians. \n\nSome legal expert systems aim to arrive at a particular conclusion in law, while others are designed to predict a particular outcome. An example of a predictive system is one that predicts the outcome of judicial decisions, the value of a case, or the outcome of litigation.\n\nMany forms of legal expert systems have become widely used and accepted by both the legal community and the users of legal services.\n\nThe inherent complexity of law as a discipline raises immediate challenges for legal expert system knowledge engineers. Legal matters often involve interrelated facts and issues, which further compound the complexity.\n\nFactual uncertainty may also arise when there are disputed versions of factual representations that must be input into an expert system to begin the reasoning process.\n\nThe limitations of most computerized problem solving techniques inhibit the success of many expert systems in the legal domain. Expert systems typically rely on deductive reasoning models that have difficulty according degrees of weight to certain principles of law or importance to previously decided cases that may or may not influence a decision in an immediate case or context.\n\nExpert legal knowledge can be difficult to represent or formalize within the structure of an expert system. For knowledge engineers, challenges include:\n\nCreating a functioning expert system requires significant investments in software architecture, subject matter expertise and knowledge engineering. Faced with these challenges, many system architects restrict the domain in terms of subject matter and jurisdiction. The consequence of this approach is the creation of narrowly focused and geographically restricted legal expert systems that are difficult to justify on a cost-benefit basis.\n\nLegal expert systems may lead non-expert users to incorrect or inaccurate results and decisions. This problem could be compounded by the fact that users may rely heavily on the correctness or trustworthiness of results or decisions generated by these systems.\n\nASHSD-II is a hybrid legal expert system that blends rule-based and case-based reasoning models in the area of matrimonial property disputes under English law.\n\nCHIRON is a hybrid legal expert system that blends rule-based and case-based reasoning models to support tax planning activities under United States tax law and codes.\n\nJUDGE is a rule-based legal expert system that deals with sentencing in the criminal legal domain for offences relating to murder, assault and manslaughter.\n\nThe Latent Damage Project is a rule-based legal expert system that deals with limitation periods under the (UK) \"Latent Damage Act 1986\" in relation to the domains of tort, contract and product liability law.\n\nSplit-Up is a rule-based legal expert system that assists in the division of marital assets according to the (Australia) \"Family Law Act (1975)\".\n\nSHYSTER is a case-based legal expert system that can also function as a hybrid through its ability to link with rule-based models. It was designed to accommodate multiple legal domains, including aspects of Australian copyright law, contract law, personal property and administrative law.\n\nTAXMAN is a rule-based system that could perform a basic form of legal reasoning by classifying cases under a particular category of statutory rules in the area of law concerning corporate reorganization.\n\nThere may be a lack of consensus over what distinguishes a legal expert system from a knowledge-based system (also called an intelligent knowledge-based system). While legal expert systems are held to function at the level of a human legal expert, knowledge-based systems may depend on the ongoing assistance of a human expert. True legal expert systems typically focus on a narrow domain of expertise as opposed to a wider and less specific domain as in the case of most knowledge-based systems.\n\nLegal expert systems represent potentially disruptive technologies for the traditional, bespoke delivery of legal services. Accordingly, established legal practitioners may consider them a threat to historical business practices.\n\nArguments have been made that a failure to take into consideration various theoretical approaches to legal decision making will produce expert systems that fail to reflect the true nature of decision making. Meanwhile, some legal expert system architects contend that because many lawyers have proficient legal reasoning skills without a sound base in legal theory, the same should hold true for legal expert systems.\n\nBecause legal expert systems apply precision and scientific rigor to the act of legal decision-making, they may be seen as a challenge to the more disorganized and less precise dynamics of traditional jurisprudential modes of legal reasoning. Some commentators also contend that the true nature of legal practice does not necessarily depend on analyses of legal rules or principles; decisions are based instead on an expectation of what a human adjudicator would decide for a given case.\n\nSince 2013, there have been significant developments in legal expert systems. Professor Tanina Rostain of Georgetown Law Center teaches a course in designing legal expert systems. Companies such as Neota Logic have begun to offer artificial intelligence and machine learning-based legal expert systems.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29039702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29039702", "title": "Manchester Law Library", "text": "Manchester Law Library\n\nThe former Manchester Law Library is a Grade II* listed building in the Venetian Gothic style at 14 Kennedy Street, Manchester. \"The building is noteworthy by virtue of having been built for the purposes of a law library and, London and the old universities aside, it is believed to have performed this function for a period longer than any other provincial law library\".\n\nDesigned by Thomas Hartas, the library was built by William Holt between 1884 and 1885 to provide a meeting place, and reading room, for the Manchester Law Society. The building has a fine Venetian Gothic facade, \"three bays, each divided into three again with richly traceried and strongly moulded frames to the openings\". Internally, a lending library is located on the ground floor, \"now with twentieth century furnishings. On the first floor, a reading room \"with most of the (slightly rearranged) attractive, original fittings.\" These include the central oak table, three fireplaces, and tall bookcases, some set at right angles to the walls to maximise the available storage space. The \"stained glass is a noteworthy feature (including) three roundels containing the images of bewigged judges\". Offices are above this.\n\nThomas Hartas is an elusive architect. The Manchester Incorporated Law Library Society website describes him as \"famous\" although it is hard to determine whence his fame derives as the Library appears to be his only documented building. Hartas also appears not to have an entry in the RIBA \"Directory of British Architects 1834-1914\" which is an exhaustive survey of practising architects of the period.\n\nIn 2015 the building was put up for sale. The Law Library relocated to new premises on Deansgate where it remains a private library open only to subscribing members of the legal profession.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2878732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2878732", "title": "Medical Communications for Combat Casualty Care", "text": "Medical Communications for Combat Casualty Care\n\nMedical Communications for Combat Casualty Care (MC4) is a deployable health support information management system of the U.S. Army. \n\nMC4 integrates, fields and provides technical support for a comprehensive medical information system enabling lifelong electronic medical records, streamlined medical logistics and enhanced situational awareness for Army operational forces. By accomplishing this mission, the MC4 Product Management Office (PMO) provides the U.S. Army’s solution to the Presidential and Congressional objectives set-forth by U.S. Code Title 10 in 1997, which called for a medical tracking system for all deployed Service members. For up-to-date information about MC4, visit The Gateway.\n\nMC4 is a (semi-) ruggedized system-of-systems containing medical software packages fielded to operational medical forces worldwide. The MC4 PMO provides Army-specific infrastructure (MC4 system) to support deployment of the Defense Health Information Management System (DHIMS), Theater Medical Information Program-Joint (TMIP-J) products. The TMIP-J applications include software for electronic medical record (EMR) documentation, a web-based application that serves as a deployed EMR repository and a web-based application for conducting battlefield surveillance.\n\nAlthough the MC4 program doesn't create the software, the MC4 program does provide the tools needed to digitally record and transfer critical medical data from the foxhole to medical treatment facilities around the world. \n\nMC4 is more than an EMR. The MC4 system is the Army's tactical medical information system including software from multiple sources, future systems and applications, package fielding and technical support. \n\nDeployable medical forces use the MC4 system to gain quick, accurate access to patient histories and forward casualty resuscitation information. The system also provides automated tools facilitating patient and item tracking, blood management, medical reporting and medical logistical support.\n\nMC4 provides new equipment training while Unit Commanders are responsible for sustainment training. MC4 is always looking at new ways to provide training that aligns with its charter and resources. \n\nFirst deployed in 2003, MC4 has fielded systems to tactical medical units throughout Iraq, Kuwait, Qatar and Afghanistan, making it the most comprehensive information management/information technology medical system deployed to date.\n\nMC4 support personnel assure system sustainability. \n\nThis commitment is supported by regional support centers in the U.S., South Korea, Europe, Kuwait, and currently Afghanistan as well as a 24-7, online helpdesk, providing a worldwide sustainment and technical support structure.\n\nThe U.S. Army recognizes that the MC4 system is an evolving capability required to support current and emerging medical information technologies needed by deployed medical forces. \n\nAs such, MC4 is strategically integrating with future Army systems, including PEO Soldier. MC4 will provide an interface to these systems that enables automated assessment and remote monitoring capabilities for deployed medical forces.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "193300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=193300", "title": "Military justice", "text": "Military justice\n\nMilitary justice (or military law) is the body of laws and procedures governing members of the armed forces. Many nation-states have separate and distinct bodies of law that govern the conduct of members of their armed forces. Some states use special judicial and other arrangements to enforce those laws, while others use civilian judicial systems. Legal issues unique to military justice include the preservation of good order and discipline, the legality of orders, and appropriate conduct for members of the military. Some states enable their military justice systems to deal with civil offenses committed by their armed forces in some circumstances.\n\nMilitary justice is distinct from martial law, which is the imposition of military authority on a civilian population as a substitute for civil authority, and is often declared in times of emergency, war, or civil unrest. Most countries restrict when and in what manner martial law may be declared and enforced.\n\nAll Commands of the Canadian Forces (CF) (that is, Royal Canadian Navy, Canadian Army, Royal Canadian Air Force, Canadian Joint Operations Command, and Canadian Special Operations Forces Command) are primarily governed by the National Defence Act (NDA). Section 12 of the NDA§ authorizes the governor in council's creation of the Queen's Regulations and Orders (QR&Os). The QR&Os are subordinate legislation having the force of law. Since the principle of \"delegatus non-potest delegare\" has not achieved rigid standing in Canada, the QR&Os authorize other military officials to generate orders having similar, but not equal, status. These instruments can be found in the Canadian Forces Administrative Orders and Defence Administrative Orders and Directives; they are used as direction for authorities within the CF to administer the day-to-day considerations of the Forces. For example, officer cadets attending military college are organized and subject to regulations more appropriate for their academic success than the enforcement of discipline, as might be expected of fully trained members. Volume IV, Appendix 6.1 of The Queen's Regulations and Orders for the Canadian Military Colleges (QR Canmilcols) applies.\n\nA judge advocate general (JAG) has headed the Canadian military legal branch since before the First World War. The branch interprets the Canadian Forces' own internal rules and code of discipline, and also international and humanitarian laws and codes of war, such as the Geneva Conventions. In Canadian practice, armed combat is a strictly regulated environment and legal officers are a crucial part of the planning that goes into operational decisions. The Military Law Centre on the grounds of Royal Military College of Canada, staffed with military lawyers, oversees the education of officers and troops in legal matters, trains military lawyers and advises Ottawa on matters of policy and doctrine. Legal education is integrated into the regular training that CF members undergo.\n\nThe Finnish military law concerns the members of the Finnish Defence Forces and the Finnish Border Guard. The military jurisdiction encompasses all military persons: conscripts, students training for a paid military position, females serving voluntarily and paid military personnel. However, military chaplains are outside the criminal military jurisdiction.\nReservists belong to the military jurisdiction when activated voluntarily or involuntarily. The military jurisdiction starts from the moment when a person reports to duty or was liable to report to duty and lasts to the moment when the person has been discharged from service and, in case of conscripts and involuntarily activated reservists, has also left the military area. During wartime, also civilians serving in the Defence Forces or in civilian institutions that have been put under the direction of Defence Forces are under military jurisdiction. Enemy prisoners of war fall under Finnish military jurisdiction during their imprisonment.\n\nLike in Germany, persons under military jurisdiction are under the usual civilian criminal law. The military criminal law, the 45th Chapter of the penal code, encompasses only the crimes which only military persons can commit. The most important of these are various types of \"service crime\" () which encompasses all voluntary and negligent disobedience of orders and regulations, \"guard crime\" (), encompassing any misdeed during guarding duty, absence without leave (), desertion (), diverse forms of disobedience against superiors, misuses of a position as superior and behaviour unsuitable for military person (). Other crimes are subject to usual civilian law.\n\nThe military has a jurisdiction to investigate all military crimes proper, and also a number of other crimes that have been specifically listed as belonging to the military jurisdiction. These include e.g. various types of murder, assault, theft, fraud, forgery, computer hacking and illegal divulging of classified information. However, they are only under military jurisdiction if the crime has been committed against another military person or against the Defence Forces.\n\nUnlike other crimes, the military crimes have separate sentence ranges for peace and wartime. During wartime, the crimes carry considerably larger sentence ranges and, if the crime causes the danger to the military unit, the sentence range is even harsher. For example, desertion carries, in the peacetime, a sentence of disciplinary punishment or up to one year in prison. During wartime, it carries a mandatory prison sentence of not more than four years, and, if the crime caused a particularly immediate danger to the unit, a mandatory minimum of one year, with a maximum sentence of ten years.\n\nWhen the military has jurisdiction over an ordinary crime, and the crime carries fine as a punishment, a disciplinary punishment may be given instead of fine both in summary proceedings and in the courts of law.\n\nWhen the crime falls under military jurisdiction, it is usually investigated by the serviceman's own unit. During such investigation, the serviceman's superior and the company commander have the power to detain the suspect. The battalion commander and military police officers have also the right to arrest the suspect and to conduct searches inside a military area.\n\nWhen the company commander or his superior feels that the crime is non-trivial and requires professional investigation, they may submit the issue to the Defence Command for investigation. The Defence Command has, in addition to the power of arrest, the power to use almost all other measures that are available to the Finnish police. If the Defence Command requires the use of the most invasive investigative measures (e.g. wiretaps, use of deep cover agents or computer intrusion) they may either request the police to conduct the measure or hand over the case to the police, as agreed between the investigator and the competent policeman. If the police considers it necessary, they may always take the case over, however.\n\nIn the Border Guard, the Border Guard headquarters has the same internal law enforcement authority as the Defence Command in the Defence Forces, in addition to the regular law enforcement powers of the Border Guard.\n\nWhen the investigation is ready, the case is brought to the company commander or sergeant major or for his superior for consideration. After hearing the suspect, the disposing superior either frees the suspect from suspicion or gives an appropriate punishment within the range allowed to him. The range is\n\nDuring peacetime, professional soldiers (with the exception of certain soldiers deployed to international missions) cannot be given other disciplinary punishment than a public letter of reprimand or a fine.\n\nIf the superior does not feel that his powers allow him to give sufficient punishment, he will transfer the matter to the next higher superior. When the brigade commander determines that he cannot give sufficient punishment, he will transfer the matter to the public prosecutor who will commence prosecution in a civilian court. If the serviceman feels that the punishment was unjust, he can appeal to the brigade commander. The brigade commander's decision can be appealed to the district court within seven days. However, the appeals will not prevent the execution of the punishment.\n\nThe military crimes that go to court are handled by civilian courts that have military members. The district court has a learned civilian judge and two military members. One of them is an officer and the other a warrant officer, an NCO or a private. The court of appeals, that acts as the first instance for the prosecution of officers with at least major's rank, will have a military member who has at least a major's rank. The Supreme Court of Finland has two officers with at least colonel's rank as members when handling military crimes. These members are not named for a specific case but serve for two-year terms. The military members of the district court are selected by the court of appeals on the motion of the Commander of the Finnish Army. The military members of the Courts of Appeals are selected by the Ministry of Justice on motion of the Ministry of Defence. The military members of the Supreme Court are selected by the President of Finland.\n\nThe sentences of the courts for military crimes are served in civilian prisons. An exception is formed by the disciplinary arrest, which may be sentenced for up to 30 days and is served in the detention facilities of the convict's garrison.\n\nWhen the military person holds a permanent or temporary paid position as a state military servant (), as all officers and NCOs in regular active service do, they will be sentenced to dismissal () in addition to other punishments, if they are convicted of a military or a civilian crime for more than two years in prison and there are no special grounds for leniency. If the sentence is a life sentence, dismissal is mandatory. The court may also sentence dismissal with a shorter prison sentence if the crime shows that the person is unsuitable for state employment.\n\nIf the military person is no longer in service, the summary disciplinary procedure cannot be used and the military has no longer any law enforcement power over the issue. In such cases, the former service member is investigated by the civilian police but the case is handled by a court with military members. In sentencing, disciplinary punishments cannot be used. Instead if a disciplinary punishment, an ordinary day-fine is sentenced. Typically, this is the case when a reservist is absent from an obligatory refresher exercise or a conscript is, after the commission of crime, declared unfit for duty for medical or security reasons.\n\nIn addition to judicial dismissal, the Defence Forces and the Border Guard have the option of administratively ending the military person's service if the person is in a paid position. This can happen even if no criminal charges are pressed. In the Defence Forces, the professional serviceman can also be administratively suspended for a period of one to six months. Similarly to state military servants, persons serving in a deployed force on an international mission may be administratively dismissed by the commander of the Finnish contingent. A conscript or a reservist cannot be dismissed but their service can be suspended by the brigade commander if they are suspected of having committed a crime which shows that they may endanger the safety of others. Following this, the person may be declared permanently unfit for duty by the Defence Forces regional office for safety and security reasons.\n\nAs an exception to the principle that the military jurisdiction concerns only military persons, the penal code provides for the loss of military rank. Any person who is sentenced to prison for at least two years or to prison for any length of time for a crime of treasonous nature (specifically, crimes in chapters 11 and 12 of the Penal Code, e.g. espionage, high treason and related crimes), shall be sentenced to lose their military rank also. Thus, not only active military persons but also retired personnel, reservists and persons who are too old to belong to reserve may lose their military ranks for crimes of civilian nature.\n\nMilitary crimes are relatively common in Finland. Partly this is due to the fact that the bar of criminality has been set consciously low. The crime of absence without leave is committed by a soldier who is even a minute late, and a slightest wilful or negligent disregard for a standing order or a regulation fulfils the indicia of the \"service crime\". The legislator has purposefully given the military superiors the legal tools by which to maintain discipline by punishing even the slight appearances of bad conduct if they feel it necessary. On the other hand, handing out unofficial punishments is discouraged in the extreme.\n\nThe number of military crimes is yearly somewhat above 4,000. An absolute majority of these are handled by summary measures, i.e. by a punishments given by the military superiors. Only some 250 military crimes in a year end up for handling in district courts. The number of appeals is vanishingly small. In year 2014, courts of appeals handled only a total of 5 military criminal cases.\nNovember 16, 2018, а USS Ronald Reagan aviation ordnanceman was sentenced to two years in prison after being accused of sexually assaulting a fellow sailor, lying to Naval Criminal Investigative Services and strangling a civilian woman. \n\nMembers of any branch of the Bundeswehr, the German armed forces, are subject to the ordinary civil jurisdiction and unless otherwise stated all civil laws apply to soldiers as well.\n\nThe German constitution allows the federal government in art. 96 II to create military courts under special circumstances: in times of war, outside Germany or on a German vessel, acting under a legal judge and only for members of the armed forces. In fact, no such laws have been enacted so far. Instead, suspects of crimes committed abroad are subject to the district attorney of the city of Potsdam. The reason is that the operational headquarters (\"Einsatzführungskommando\") is located there.\n\nNonetheless, there exist numerous acts that only concern soldiers describing their special status, their rights and duties. The military penal code (\"Wehrstrafgesetz\") applies to soldiers by extending the civil penal code (\"Strafgesetzbuch\") to crimes that can be only committed on military duty: General offenses (such as desertion, illegal use of weapons and more) and offenses that interfere with the military hierarchy (such as mutiny or abuse).\n\nLaw enforcing inside any branch is done by the military police, the Feldjäger. When investigating, working for the attorney is equivalent to any German police in civil issues. In cases of both groups involved (on German terrain), regular and military police cooperate. In emergencies, the regular police is authorized to maintain order until the military police has arrived.\n\nSoldiers that violate military regulations may also receive penalties in form of Non-judicial punishment or in severe cases judicial punishments by a special type of court. These procedures are defined by the military discipline code (\"Wehrdisziplinarordnung\", WDO). Note that the WDO describes how to proceed on offenses that are not (yet) covered by the military penal code but clearly against a military regulation. The head of the unit as immediate superior who acts as primary disciplinary master has the exclusive right to choose: non-judicial punishment (such as fines, curfews, arrests up to 7 days), forwarding the decision to the next superior officer of the unit (arrest then can be extended up to 21 days) or calling the military service court (\"Truppendienstgericht\") which has the power for further punishment (like degradation and shortening the salary up to five years). The judge of such a court is a civil one, two military officers are attending every case and act as consultants to the judge.\n\nIn Germany, there are no federal or military prisons. If a soldier is sentenced to jail for up to six months, the punishment is executed by the soldier's barracks administration. He will remain in arrest for the same time but continue serving in his unit on duty times unless the court has imposed further limits. Otherwise soldiers will be detained in civil state prisons. In the case of a soldier being sentenced to jail for one year or more (6 months or more in case of bribery) he will be discharged from the armed forces.\n\nIndia has its own Army Act, Navy Act and Air Force Act.\nThese laws define the statutory provisions as applicable to men and women in uniform. All these three Acts are available on search from the official website.\nThere are certain para military forces in India too who have laws akin to the ones applicable to defence services. This includes the Border Security Force Act, Coast Guard Act, Indo-Tibetan Border Police Force Act and the Assam Rifles Act. All such Acts draw their inspiration from the Army Act.\n\nThe military courts in India are coming under extreme stress with the establishment of Armed Forces Tribunal in 2007. There is increasing voice in the country for the reform on the lines other liberal democracies are seeing in their military justice system.\n\nThe United Kingdom's arrangements for justice in the armed forces dates back many centuries to the Articles of War. In the late 19th Century this was added to the annual Army Act and embodied in the Naval Discipline Act. The Air Force Act was added in 1918. In 1966 a process of harmonisation started with the introduction of a quinquennial Armed Forces Act. The Armed Forces Act 2006 replaces the three separate service discipline acts and earlier Armed Forces Acts as the system of law under which the Armed Forces operate. In the previous decade the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) had considerable impact on the administration of military justice, particularly the need for the independence of the courts martial system. Nevertheless, the underlying premise of the service justice system is that discipline is a matter for commanders.\n\nThe Armed Forces Act 2006 completed the harmonisation of service law, and took full effect on 1 November 2009. Guidance about its application and related matters are provided in the Manual of Service Law. One motivating factor behind the changes in the legislation combining discipline acts across the armed forces is the trend towards tri-service operations and defence organisations. It deals with military offences, civil offences committed in some circumstances, offences by civilians associated with the armed forces or with the armed forces overseas (including family members), authority of Commanding Officer to deal with offences summarily, the Court Martial, the Service Civilian Court, custody and appeals. The Act also creates the post of the Director of Service Prosecutions.\n\nSummary dealing by a Commanding Officer (CO) is the central feature, this is acceptable within the ECHR because an accused always has the right to elect trial by the Court Martial. Most cases are dealt with summarily. Typically a CO is a Lieutenant Colonel or equivalent (NATO grade OF-4), but a CO may delegate some powers of summary dealing to a subordinate. The superior officer of a CO, a Higher Authority, may vary a CO's powers of summary dealing. An implication is that every person subject to service law must have a CO, and a CO must have a Higher Authority.\n\nThe military judicial system is headed by the Judge Advocate General who is a civilian and part of the Ministry of Justice.\n\nAdministrative procedures enable a service man or women to be discharged for unsatisfactory behaviour in a process similar to that in the private sector. They also allow a superior of any rank to award up to three extra duties or similar to a subordinate for minor infractions. Since being introduced this has significantly reduced the number of cases dealt with summarily.\n\nThe United States Constitution authorized the creation of a system of military justice. Article I, Section 8 permits the U.S. Congress to \"make rules for the government and regulation of the land and naval forces.\" Congress issued these rules first in 1806 as the Articles of War. Military justice during the American Civil War was governed by the 1863 Lieber Code. The Articles of War were superseded in 1951 by the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ).\n\nThe UCMJ is federal law, found in Title 10 United States Code Chapter 47, and implemented by the Manual for Courts-Martial, an executive order issued by the President of the United States in his capacity as Commander-in-Chief of the United States Armed Forces. Court-martial convictions in the United States may be appealed through military courts of appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces (CAAF), a federal appellate court consisting of five civilian judges appointed by the President of the United States. CAAF decisions are subject to direct review by the Supreme Court of the United States.\n\nThe offenses covered by the UCMJ include those encompassed by \"high crimes and misdemeanors\" which covers officials generally, and includes perjury of oath, abuse of authority, bribery, intimidation, misuse of assets, failure to supervise, dereliction of duty, conduct unbecoming, and refusal to obey a lawful order. It also includes ordinary crimes, but perhaps with different standards of proof and punishment than for civilians, on the grounds that more is expected of military personnel by their oaths of office. Many of the terms used date back to the era during which the code was written.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27231320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27231320", "title": "Nunn v. Georgia", "text": "Nunn v. Georgia\n\n\"Nunn v. State\", 1 Ga. (1 Kel.) 243 (1846) is a Georgia Supreme Court ruling that a state law ban on handguns was an unconstitutional violation of the Second Amendment. This was the first gun control measure to be overturned on Second Amendment grounds.\n\nIn 1837, Georgia passed a law banning the sale and carry of certain types of weapons included Bowie and other types of knives, and pistols. Hawkins H. Nunn was charged and convicted for carrying a pistol in violation of the law. He appealed the ruling, claiming the state law was a violation of the Second Amendment to the United States Constitution. He did not make a claim under the Georgia constitution because Georgia, unlike many other states, did not have a similar protection of the right to bear arms within its constitution.\n\nThe \"Nunn\" court ruled that while the legislature could prohibit the concealed carry of weapons, it could not prohibit the open carry of weapons. To do so would be a violation of the Second Amendment right to carry weapons for self-defense. As there was no proof that Nunn had been carrying his pistol concealed, the conviction was overturned.\n\nThe court relied on guidance from other state decisions and general theories of rights to explain its decision.\n\nThe \"Nunn\" court referenced \"Bliss v. Commonwealth\", 12 Ky. (2 Litt.) 90, 13 Am. Dec. 251 (1822) and State v. Reid, 1 Ala. 612, 35 Am. Dec. 44 (1840). In \"Bliss\", the defendant was charged with carrying a weapon concealed, in violation of a Kentucky statute. The \"Bliss\" court invalidated the law as a diminution of the Kentucky constitution which provided, \"that the right of the citizens to bear arms in defense of themselves and the State, shall not be questioned.\" The court reasoned that the right as defined has no limits and \"in fact consists of nothing else but the liberty.\" Any restriction on the right, including the prohibition of concealed carry was a violation of the right.\n\nIn contrast the court in \"Reid\" upheld a similar ban on concealed carry. The Alabama constitution read, \"that every citizen has a right to bear arms in defence of himself and the State.\" The \"Reid\" court held that the law \"to suppress the evil practice of carrying weapons secretly,\" did not violate the Alabama constitution. While the legislature could not prevent the carrying of arms, it did retain the right \"to enact laws in regard to the manner in which arms shall be borne.\" Because the restriction on concealed carry was not a prohibition on the right, it was within the ambit of the legislature to restrict concealed carry.\n\nThe \"Nunn\" court recognized that \"Reid\" and \"Bliss\" were applying clauses in state constitutions. But, their decisions were relevant to Georgia because the state constitutional protection of the right to keep and bear arms was not a newly given right, but was a recitation of an already existent right. \n\nThe court held that the Second Amendment to the United States Constitution protected the rights of Georgia citizens because free people have the right to self-defense. The fact that Georgia did not have a constitutional amendment did not empower the Georgia legislature to infringe on the right. The right is fundamental, and no free society could exist where the right was prohibited.\nThe court also held that the whole people, not just militia were afforded the right to keep and bear arms. And the type of arms was not restricted only to those borne by the militia but arms of every type and description.\n\nThe court's concept of rights meant that other portions of the Bill of Rights would also apply to the States. For example, the court explained that the right to peaceably assemble, protected under the First Amendment, was applicable to both the national and state governments. The court also cited to the New York case of \"People vs. Goodwin\", 18 John. Rep. 200 (N.Y.Sup. 1820) which applied Fifth Amendment double jeopardy prohibitions to New York state court operations. The court explained how to determine which constitutional provisions apply to the state and which applied only the federal government; the relevant question is whether the concepts in the constitution were confined only to the national government or if they could be extended to the states as well. Citing \"Goodwin\":\n\nThe \"Nunn\" court's decision has continuing relevance to the ongoing debate over gun rights. The Supreme Court in its ruling in \"Heller v. District of Columbia\" said \"Nunn\", \"...perfectly captured the way in which the operative clause of the Second amendment furthered the purpose announced in the prefatory clause...\" The \"Nunn\" court concept of fundamental rights was relevant to determine whether or not the Second Amendment is a restriction only on the federal government or whether the right to keep and bear arms is a fundamental right that cannot be infringed by the state governments\n\n\n"}
{"id": "358677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=358677", "title": "Obedience (human behavior)", "text": "Obedience (human behavior)\n\nObedience, in human behavior, is a form of \"social influence in which a person yields to explicit instructions or orders from an authority figure\". Obedience is generally distinguished from compliance, which is behavior influenced by peers, and from conformity, which is behavior intended to match that of the majority. Depending on context, obedience can be seen as moral, immoral, or amoral.\n\nHumans have been shown to be obedient in the presence of perceived legitimate authority figures, as shown by the Milgram experiment in the 1960s, which was carried out by Stanley Milgram to find out how the Nazis managed to get ordinary people to take part in the mass murders of the Holocaust. The experiment showed that obedience to authority was the norm, not the exception. Regarding obedience, Milgram said that \"Obedience is as basic an element in the structure of social life as one can point to. Some system of authority is a requirement of all communal living, and it is only the man dwelling in isolation who is not forced to respond, through defiance or submission, to the commands of others.\" A similar conclusion was reached in the Stanford prison experiment.\n\nAlthough other fields have studied obedience, social psychology has been primarily responsible for the advancement of research on obedience. It has been studied experimentally in several different ways.\n\nIn one classical study, Stanley Milgram (as part of the Milgram experiment) created a highly controversial yet often replicated study. Like many other experiments in psychology, Milgram's setup involved deception of the participants. In the experiment, subjects were told they were going to take part in a study of the effects of punishment on learning. In reality, the experiment focuses on people's willingness to obey malevolent authority. Each subject served as a teacher of associations between arbitrary pairs of words. After meeting the \"teacher\" at the beginning of the experiment, the \"learner\" (an accomplice of the experimenter) sat in another room and could be heard, but not seen. Teachers were told to give the \"learner\" electric shocks of increasing severity for each wrong answer. If subjects questioned the procedure, the \"researcher\" (again, an accomplice of Milgram) would encourage them to continue. Subjects were told to ignore the agonized screams of the learner, his desire to be untied and stop the experiment, and his pleas that his life was at risk and that he suffered from a heart condition. The experiment, the \"researcher\" insisted, had to go on. The dependent variable in this experiment was the voltage amount of shocks administered.\n\nThe other classical study on obedience was conducted at Stanford University during the 1970s. Phillip Zimbardo was the main psychologist responsible for the experiment. In the Stanford Prison Experiment, college age students were put into a pseudo prison environment in order to study the impacts of \"social forces\" on participants behavior. Unlike the Milgram study in which each participant underwent the same experimental conditions, here using random assignment half the participants were prison guards and the other half were prisoners. The experimental setting was made to physically resemble a prison while simultaneously inducing \"a psychological state of imprisonment\".\n\nThe Milgram study found that most participants would obey orders even when obedience posed severe harm to others. With encouragement from a perceived authority figure, about two-thirds of the participants were willing to administer the highest level of shock to the learner. This result was surprising to Milgram because he thought that \"subjects have learned from childhood that it is a fundamental breach of moral conduct to hurt another person against his will\". Milgram attempted to explain how ordinary people were capable of performing potentially lethal acts against other human beings by suggesting that participants may have entered into an agentic state, where they allowed the authority figure to take responsibility for their own actions.\n\nZimbardo obtained similar results as the guards in the study obeyed orders and turned aggressive. Prisoners likewise were hostile to and resented their guards. The cruelty of the \"guards\" and the consequent stress of the \"prisoners,\" forced Zimbardo to terminate the experiment prematurely, after 6 days.\n\nThe previous two studies greatly influenced how modern psychologists think about obedience. Milgram's study in particular generated a large response from the psychology community. In a modern study, Jerry Burger replicated Milgram's method with a few alterations. Burger's method was identical to Milgram's except when the shocks reached 150 volts, participants decided whether or not they wanted to continue and then the experiment ended (base condition). To ensure the safety of the participants, Burger added a two-step screening process; this was to rule out any participants that may react negatively to the experiment. In the modeled refusal condition, two confederates were used, where one confederate acted as the learner and the other was the teacher. The teacher stopped after going up to 90 volts, and the participant was asked to continue where the confederate left off. This methodology was considered more ethical because many of the adverse psychological effects seen in previous studies' participants occurred after moving past 150 volts. Additionally, since Milgram's study only used men, Burger tried to determine if there were differences between genders in his study and randomly assigned equal numbers of men and women to the experimental conditions.\n\nUsing data from his previous study, Burger probed participant's thoughts about obedience. Participants' comments from the previous study were coded for the number of times they mentioned \"personal responsibility and the learner's well being\". The number of prods the participants used in the first experiment were also measured.\n\nAnother study that used a partial replication of Milgram's work changed the experimental setting. In one of the Utrecht University studies on obedience, participants were instructed to make a confederate who was taking an employment test feel uncomfortable. Participants were told to make all of the instructed stress remarks to the confederate that ultimately made him fail in the experimental condition, but in the control condition they were not told to make stressful remarks. The dependent measurements were whether or not the participant made all of the stress remarks (measuring absolute obedience) and the number of stress remarks (relative obedience).\n\nFollowing the Utrecht studies, another study used the stress remarks method to see how long participants would obey authority. The dependent measures for this experiment were the number of stress remarks made and a separate measure of personality designed to measure individual differences.\n\nBurger's first study had results similar to the ones found in Milgram's previous study. The rates of obedience were very similar to those found in the Milgram study, showing that participants' tendency to obey has not declined over time. Additionally, Burger found that both genders exhibited similar behavior, suggesting that obedience will occur in participants independent of gender.\nIn Burger's follow-up study, he found that participants that worried about the well being of the learner were more hesitant to continue the study. He also found that the more the experimenter prodded the participant to continue, the more likely they were to stop the experiment.\nThe Utrecht University study also replicated Milgram's results. They found that although participants indicated they did not enjoy the task, over 90% of them completed the experiment.\nThe Bocchiaro and Zimbardo study had similar levels of obedience compared to the Milgram and Utrecht studies. They also found that participants would either stop the experiment at the first sign of the learner's pleas or would continue until the end of the experiment (called \"the foot in the door scenario\").\nIn addition to the above studies, additional research using participants from different cultures (including Spain, Australia, and Jordan) also found participants to be obedient.\n\nOne of the major assumptions of obedience research is that the effect is caused only by the experimental conditions, and Thomas Blass' research contests this point, as in some cases participant factors involving personality could potentially influence the results.\nIn one of Blass' reviews on obedience, he found that participant's personalities can impact how they respond to authority, as people that were high in authoritarian submission were more likely to obey. He replicated this finding in his own research, as in one of his experiments, he found that when watching portions of the original Milgram studies on film, participants placed less responsibility on those punishing the learner when they scored high on measures of authoritarianism.\n\nIn addition to personality factors, participants who are resistant to obeying authority had high levels of social intelligence.\n\nObedience can also be studied outside of the Milgram paradigm in fields such as economics or political science. One economics study that compared obedience to a tax authority in the lab versus at home found that participants were much more likely to pay participation tax when confronted in the lab. This finding implies that even outside of experimental settings, people will forgo potential financial gain to obey authority.\n\nAnother study involving political science measured public opinion before and after a Supreme Court case debating whether or not states can legalize physician assisted suicide. They found that participants' tendency to obey authorities was not as important to public opinion polling numbers as religious and moral beliefs. Although prior research has demonstrated that the tendency to obey persists across settings, this finding suggests that at personal factors like religion and morality can limit how much people obey authority.\n\nBoth the Milgram and Stanford experiments were conducted in research settings. In 1966, psychiatrist Charles K. Hofling published the results of a field experiment on obedience in the nurse–physician relationship in its natural hospital setting. Nurses, unaware they were taking part in an experiment, were ordered by unknown doctors to administer dangerous doses of a (fictional) drug to their patients. Although several hospital rules disallowed administering the drug under the circumstances, 21 out of the 22 nurses would have given the patient an overdose.\n\nMany traditional cultures regard obedience as a virtue; historically, societies have expected children to obey their elders (compare patriarchy, slaves their owners, serfs their lords in feudal society, lords their king, and everyone God. Even long after slavery ended in the United States, the Black codes required black people to obey and submit to whites, on pain of lynching. Compare the religious ideal of surrender and its importance in Islam (the word \"Islam\" can literally mean \"surrender\").\n\nIn some Christian weddings, obedience was formally included along with honor and love as part of a conventional bride's (but not the bridegroom's) wedding vow. This came under attack with women's suffrage and the feminist movement. the inclusion of a promise to obey in marriage vows has become optional in some denominations.\n\nSome animals can easily be trained to be obedient by employing operant conditioning, for example obedience schools exist to condition dogs to obey the orders of human owners.\n\nLearning to obey adult rules is a major part of the socialization process in childhood, and many techniques are used by adults to modify the behavior of children. Additionally, extensive training is given in armies to make soldiers capable of obeying orders in situations where an untrained person would not be willing to follow orders. Soldiers are initially ordered to do seemingly trivial things, such as picking up the sergeant's hat off the floor, marching in just the right position, or marching and standing in formation. The orders gradually become more demanding, until an order to the soldiers to place themselves into the midst of gunfire gets an instinctively obedient response.\n\nWhen the Milgram experimenters were interviewing potential volunteers, the participant selection process itself revealed several factors that affected obedience, outside of the actual experiment.\n\nInterviews for eligibility were conducted in an abandoned complex in Bridgeport, Connecticut. Despite the dilapidated state of the building, the researchers found that the presence of a Yale professor as stipulated in the advertisement affected the number of people who obeyed. This was not further researched to test obedience without a Yale professor because Milgram had not intentionally staged the interviews to discover factors that affected obedience. A similar conclusion was reached in the Stanford prison experiment.\n\nIn the actual experiment, prestige or the appearance of power was a direct factor in obedience—particularly the presence of men dressed in gray laboratory coats, which gave the impression of scholarship and achievement and was thought to be the main reason why people complied with administering what they thought was a painful or dangerous shock. A similar conclusion was reached in the Stanford prison experiment.\n\nRaj Persaud, in an article in the BMJ, comments on Milgram's attention to detail in his experiment:\nDespite the fact that prestige is often thought of as a separate factor, it is, in fact, merely a subset of power as a factor. Thus, the prestige conveyed by a Yale professor in a laboratory coat is only a manifestation of the experience and status associated with it and/or the social status afforded by such an image.\n\nAccording to Milgram, \"the essence of obedience consists in the fact that a person comes to view himself as the instrument for carrying out another person's wishes, and he therefore no longer sees himself as responsible for his actions. Once this critical shift of viewpoint has occurred in the person, all of the essential features of obedience follow.\" Thus, \"the major problem for the subject is to recapture control of his own regnant processes once he has committed them to the purposes of the experimenter.\" Besides this hypothetical agentic state, Milgram proposed the existence of other factors accounting for the subject's obedience: politeness, awkwardness of withdrawal, absorption in the technical aspects of the task, the tendency to attribute impersonal quality to forces that are essentially human, a belief that the experiment served a desirable end, the sequential nature of the action, and anxiety.\n\nAnother explanation of Milgram's results invokes belief perseverance as the underlying cause. What \"people cannot be counted on is to realize that a seemingly benevolent authority is in fact malevolent, even when they are faced with overwhelming evidence which suggests that this authority is indeed malevolent. Hence, the underlying cause for the subjects' striking conduct could well be conceptual, and not the alleged 'capacity of man to abandon his humanity ... as he merges his unique personality into larger institutional structures.\"'\n\nIn humans:\nIn animals:\n\n"}
{"id": "2495598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2495598", "title": "Opinio juris sive necessitatis", "text": "Opinio juris sive necessitatis\n\nOpinio juris sive necessitatis (\"an opinion of law or necessity\") or simply opinio juris (\"an opinion of law\") is the belief that an action was carried out as a legal obligation. This is in contrast to an action resulting from cognitive reaction or behaviors habitual to an individual. This term is frequently used in legal proceedings such as a defense for a case.\n\n\"Opinio juris\" is the subjective element of custom as a source of law, both domestic and international, as it refers to beliefs. The other element is state practice, which is more objective as it is readily discernible. To qualify as state practice, the acts must be consistent and general international practice.\n\nA situation where \"opinio juris\" would be feasible is a case concerning self-defense. A condition must be met where the usage of force is limited to the situation at hand. The act of striking an attacker may be done with legal justification; however, legal territory limits the acceptability of such a claim. Even in this case, the usage of force must be acceptable to the conditions of the environment, the attacker, and the physical conditions of the people involved, as well as any weapons or tools used.\n\nIn international law, \"opinio juris\" is the subjective element used to judge whether the practice of a state is due to a belief that it is legally obliged to do a particular act. When opinio juris exists and is consistent with nearly all state practice, customary international law emerges. Opinio juris essentially means that states must act in compliance with the norm not merely out of convenience, habit, coincidence, or political expediency, but rather out of a sense of legal obligation. [1] Article 38(1)(b) of the Statute of the International Court of Justice accepts \"international custom\" as a source of law, but only where this custom is 1) “evidence of a general practice,” (the objective component) (2) \"accepted as law.\" (the opinio juris or subjective component) Thus, for example, while it may be observed that heads of state virtually always shake hands when they first meet, it is highly unlikely that they do so because they believe that a rule of international law requires it. On the other hand, a state would almost certainly expect some form of legal repercussions if it were to prosecute a foreign ambassador without the consent of his or her home state, and in this sense opinio juris does exist for the international law rule of diplomatic immunity.\n\nBecause opinio juris refers to the psychological state of the state actor—asking why the state behaved as it did—it can be difficult to identify and to prove. In practice, a variety of sources tend to be used to demonstrate the existence of opinio juris, including evidence such as diplomatic correspondence, press releases and other government statements of policy, opinions of legal advisers, official manuals on legal questions, legislation, national and international judicial decisions, legal briefs endorsed by the state, a pattern of treaties ratified by the state that all include the same obligation(s), resolutions and declarations by the United Nations, and other sources. In the Paquete Habana case (decided by the United States Supreme Court in 1900 on the question of whether small coastal fishing boats are immune from capture during wartime under customary international law), evidence of opinio juris included medieval English royal ordinances, agreements between European nations, orders issued to the U.S. Navy in earlier conflicts, and the opinions of legal treatise writers. Finally, the context, circumstances, and manner in which the state practice is carried out can also be used to infer the existence of opinio juris. As the ICJ stated in the North Sea Continental Shelf cases of 1969, \"Not only must the acts concerned amount to a settled practice, but they must also be such, or be carried out in such a way, as to be evidence of a belief that this practice is rendered obligatory by the existence of a rule of law requiring it.\" Nonetheless, a state's motives can change over time, and that it is not necessary that opinio juris be a significant impetus for each instance of action. As Judge Lachs wrote in a dissenting opinion in the North Sea Continental Shelf cases, \"At successive stages in the development of the [customary] rule the motives which have prompted States to accept it have varied from case to case. It could not be otherwise. At all events, to postulate that all States, even those which initiate a given practice, believe themselves to be acting under a legal obligation is to resort to a fiction, and in fact to deny the possibility of developing such rules.\"\n\nAs difficult as it can be to prove why an actor did act in a certain way, it is exponentially more difficult to prove why it did not act. For this reason, the necessity of demonstrating that a behavior was prompted by a sense of legal obligation makes it particularly difficult for customary international law to develop around the prohibition of a practice. One important case in the development of modern customary international law theory is the Lotus case, in which France attempted to protest Turkey's assertion of criminal jurisdiction over a French citizen for acts committed on the high seas (outside of Turkey's territory). France presented a number of historical examples to demonstrate that the state of nationality or the state whose flag the ship had flown had exclusive jurisdiction in cases such as this. However, the Permanent Court of International Justice (a precursor to the ICJ) declared that the evidence showed merely that \"States had often, in practice, abstained from instituting criminal proceedings, and not that they recognized themselves as being obliged to do so; for only if such abstention were based on their being conscious of having a duty to abstain would it be possible to speak of an international custom.\" This reasoning was cited approvingly in the North Sea Continental Shelf cases, which similarly declined to find the existence of customary law regarding the proper method to delimit territorial claims to the continental shelf extending from the coastline of states bordering the North Sea. The ICJ also declined to find evidence of customary international law in an opinion on the legality of the use or threat of nuclear weapons, despite what some argued to be uniform state practice. As in the North Sea Continental Shelf cases, it found that the mere fact that no state had used nuclear weapons against another state since World War II did not reflect opinio juris. Some states had pointed out that a series of U.N. resolutions had been issued \"that deal with nuclear weapons and that affirm, with consistent regularity, the illegality of nuclear weapons,\" and argued that this signified “the existence of a rule of international customary law which prohibits recourse to those weapons.” Nonetheless, the ICJ wrote that states possessing nuclear weapons had almost always objected to these resolutions, which strongly suggests that those states did not believe that a customary law prohibiting their use existed. Moreover, it wrote that the non-use of nuclear weapons could actually provide evidence of their \"use\" as a deterrent force.\n\nThis logical framework makes sense for existing norms of customary international law, but it becomes problematic in the context of new or emerging customary rules. If a practice is not currently governed by customary international law, then it is illogical to inquire into a state's beliefs about the legality of engaging in or abstaining from that practice, i.e., to ask whether it believed that its practice was in compliance with a law that does not yet exist. This paradox may be resolved to some extent by the idea of \"crystallization\" of customary international law, in which practice and legal obligation evolve jointly and eventually ripen into law. Under one model, this process occurs in three stages: first, some States engage in a given practice for reasons other than a sense of legal obligation (e.g. political expediency, economic gain, courtesy, etc.); next, States reinforce the practice by engaging in it or making claims based upon it, creating loops of reciprocity and reliance based on expectations that the practice will continue; finally, as these relationships expand in number and complexity, they eventually harden into a general rule. In this final stage, as more States become aware of the conduct and actively participate or at least passively acquiesce to the practice, the States' actions begin to be undergirded by a belief that they are complying with an emerging customary rule.\n"}
{"id": "36150945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36150945", "title": "Pete Orr (racing driver)", "text": "Pete Orr (racing driver)\n\nCharles \"Pete\" Orr (July 29, 1956 – November 18, 2002) was an American stock car racing driver. Regarded as a superstar in Florida late model competition, Orr competed primarily in the lower levels of racing, but did have a brief NASCAR Busch Series career; his death from lymphoma in 2002 led to the State of Florida enacting insurance reform.\n\nBorn in Miami but a long-time resident of Montverde, Florida, Orr competed in local short track racing events throughout Florida starting in the 1970s. He ran for Rookie of the Year in the NASCAR Winston All-American Challenge Series, later renamed the Slim Jim All Pro Series, in 1988; he competed in the series over the next several years, both as a driver and as crew chief for fellow Florida racer David Russell. Orr continued competing in local events as well, winning the FASCAR Triple Crown Series in 1991. In 1992 he won the prestigious Orange Blossom 100 at New Smyrna Speedway for the second consecutive year; he also won the speedway's World Series of Asphalt championship.\n\nIn 1995, having left local competition in an attempt to make it at the top levels of the sport, Orr made his debut in NASCAR national touring competition, driving for David Ridling in the Busch Grand National Series. Orr was 39; he had promised his wife he would retire if he hadn't reached the Busch Series level by age 40. Driving the No. 88 Chevrolet with sponsorship from Farmer's Choice Fertilizer, he ran two races in the 1995 season, at Darlington Raceway and Charlotte Motor Speedway, with a best finish of 29th; he failed to qualify for the two final races of the season.\n\nRemaining with Ridling's team for the 1996 season, Orr planned full-time in the Busch Series, declaring his intention to compete for Rookie of the Year honors; in the season-opening Goody's 300 at Daytona International Speedway, Orr qualified tenth for the series' biggest race of the year, but was involved in an accident, finishing 40th of 46 cars and completing only 50 laps. Orr failed to qualify three times over the next six races, with his best finish in the three races which he qualified for being 34th, at Richmond International Raceway in the third race of the season, and Bristol International Raceway in the seventh. Bristol's Goody's Headache Powder 250 would be Orr's final race in NASCAR's higher levels; before the race the following week at Hickory Motor Speedway, Ridling released him from the team, replacing him with Kevin Lepage, who would go on to win at the season's final race.\n\nFollowing his aborted Busch Series career, Orr returned to local short track competition, racing as far afield as DeSoto Speedway in Florida and Jennerstown Speedway in Pennsylvania in 2000.\n\nSuffering from lymphoma, he retired from racing in 2001, having scored over 300 wins in racing competition Orr became a victim of insurance fraud, with over $250,000 in claims being refused by his insurance company; the racing community assisted in paying for his medical treatment. Orr died of his cancer on November 18, 2002; he was survived by his wife Terri, three sons, and a daughter.\n\nOrr's insurance issues led to the Florida Legislature passing insurance reform following his death; the measure was referred to as the \"Pete Orr Insurance Anti-Fraud Act\", or more simply as the \"Pete Orr Bill\". from 2003 until 2015, the Orange Blossom 100 was named the Pete Orr Memorial, with the family supporting the race; Orr had won the event four times, more than any other driver.\n\n"}
{"id": "3931818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3931818", "title": "Phulkari", "text": "Phulkari\n\nPhulkari () embroidery technique from the Punjab region of the Indian subcontinent, literally means \"flower work\", which was at one time used as the word for embroidery, but in time the word “Phulkari” became restricted to embroidered shawls and head scarfs. Simple and sparsely embroidered \"odini\" (head scarfs), dupatta and shawls, made for everyday use, are called \"Phulkaris\", whereas garments that cover the entire body, made for special and ceremonial occasions like weddings and birth of a son, fully covered fabric is called \"Baghs\" (\"garden\") and scattered work on the fabric is called \"adha bagh\" (half garden). This whole work is done with white or yellow silk floss on cotton khaddarh and starts from the center on the fabric called \"chashm-e-bulbul\" and spreads to the whole fabric.\n\nThe word \"phul\" means flower and \"kari\" means craft, thus its name, literally means floral work or floral craft.\n\nPunjab is known for its Phulkaris. The embroidery is done with floss silk thread on coarse hand woven cotton fabric. Geometrical patterns are usually embroidered on the Phulkaris. \nPhulkaris and Baghs were worn by women all over Punjab during marriage festivals and other joyous occasions. They were embroidered by the women for their own use and use of other family members and were not for sale in the market. Thus, it was purely a domestic art which not only satisfied their inner urge for creation but brought colour into day-to-day life. In a way, it was true folk art. Custom had grown to give Phulkaris and Baghs to brides at the time of marriages. The exquisite embroidery for Baghs are known to have been made in the districts of Hazara, Peshawar, Sialkot, Jhelum, Rawalpindi, Multan, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ambala, Ludhiana, Nabha, Jind, Faridkot, Kapurthala and Chakwal of the Punjab region. Bagh and phulkari embroidery has influenced the embroidery of Gujarat known as 'heer bharat' in its use of geometrical motifs and stitchery.\n\nSome feel it came from Central Asia along with Jat tribes who migrated to India and settled in Punjab, Haryana and Gujarat. There is reference of Phulkari in Vedas, Mahabharat, Guru Granth Sahib and folk songs of Punjab. In its present form, phulkari embroidery has been popular since the 15th century.\n\nThe main characteristics of Phulkari embroidery are use of darn stitch on the wrong side of coarse cotton cloth with coloured silken thread. Punjabi women created innumerable alluring and interesting designs and patterns by their skilful manipulation of the darn stitch. The base khaddar cloth used in Western Punjab is finer from those of Central Punjab. Black/blue are not preferred in Western Punjab, whereas white is not used in East Punjab. In West Punjab, 2 or 3 pieces of cloth are first folded and joined together. In East Punjab, they are joined together first and then embroidered.\n\nIn Phulkari embroidery ornaments the cloth, whereas in \"Bagh\", it entirely covers the garment so that the base cloth is not visible. The end portion of pallav of Phulkari have separate panels of exquisite workmanship of striking design.\n\nThe most favoured colour is red and its shades, because Bagh and Phulkari are used during marriage and other festivals. Red is also considered auspicious by Punjabi Hindus and Sikhs. Other colours are brown, blue, black, white. White was used in Bagh by elderly ladies. Silk thread in strands came from Kashmir, Afghanistan and Bengal. The best quality silk came from China.\n\nNo religious subject or darbar scenes were embroidered. Phulkari encompassed life in the villages. Creative ability of Punjabi women has produced innumerable and intricate geometrical patterns. However, most motifs were taken from everyday life. Wheat and barley stalk with ears are a common motif.\n\nThe two styles of chope and subhar are worn by brides. The chope is embroidered on both sides of the cloth. \n\nOnly the borders and the four edges of the cloth are embroidered in fine embroidery. The subhar has a central motif and four motifs on the corners.\n\nThe til (sesame) patra has decorative embroidery which is spread out as if spreading sesame seeds. The term til patra means 'the sprinkling of seeds'.\n\nThe neelak phulkari is made of a black or red background with yellow or bright red embroidery. The colour of the phulkari is mixed with metals.\n\nOriginating in Rawalpindi, the ghunghat bagh is heavily embroidered around the centre on the edge to be worn over the head. The embroidered centre is then pulled over the face so as to form an embroidered veil.\n\nThe chhaamas phulkari hails from Rohtak, Gurgaon, Hissar and Delhi. The chaamas phulkari incorporates mirrors which are sewn into the cloth with yellow, grey or blue thread.\n\nThe phulkari of south and southwestern Punjab region, has wide edges upon which designs of animals and birds are embroidered. As is the case of the chaup, the edges are embroidered on both sides of the cloth. South and southwestern Punjab region includes the south Punjab, India, south and south west of Punjab, Pakistan.\n\nThe senchi phulkari is popular in and around Ferozepur. The senchi phulkai incorporates designs of birds, jewellery such as bracelets, earrings, rings and necklaces.\n\nTraditionally, phulkari garments were part of a girl's wedding trousseau, its motifs expressive of her emotions and the number of phulkari pieces defined the status of the family. Over the years, government has been working towards promotion of phulkari embroidery, by organizing special training programs, fairs, and exhibitions. Since most of women artisan creating phulkari are in the unorganized sector or work through agents, they do not make much money compared to an actual market price of their product, to avoid this lacuna Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) has formed women self-help groups and cooperatives to sell directly and make more profits.\n\nIndira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA) acquired a collection of selected phulkari for its archives in 1994. Some modern fashion designers are incorporating this embroidery into their garments, and its use has spread beyond \"salwar kameez\" and \"dupatta\" to objects and garments as varied, as jackets, bags, cushion covers, table-mats, shoes, slipper, \"juttis\", and kids garments.\n\nIn 2011, after a five-year-long legal case, Phulkari was awarded the geographical indication (GI) status in India, which means that after that only registered traders and manufacturers, from Punjab Haryana and Rajasthan states would be able to use the term for the traditional craft, and the patent information centre (PIC) of Punjab State Council for Science and Technology would issue a logo or hologram to distinguish the product.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1549333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1549333", "title": "Piercing the corporate veil", "text": "Piercing the corporate veil\n\nPiercing the corporate veil or lifting the corporate veil is a legal decision to treat the rights or duties of a corporation as the rights or liabilities of its shareholders. Usually a corporation is treated as a separate legal person, which is solely responsible for the debts it incurs and the sole beneficiary of the credit it is owed. Common law countries usually uphold this principle of separate personhood, but in exceptional situations may \"pierce\" or \"lift\" the corporate veil.\n\nA simple example would be where a businessman has left his job as a director and has signed a contract to not compete with the company he has just left for a period of time. If he sets up a company which competed with his former company, technically it would be the company and not the person competing. But it is likely a court would say that the new company was just a \"sham\", a \"cover\" or some other phrase, and would still allow the old company to sue the man for breach of contract.\n\nDespite the terminology used which makes it appear as though a shareholder's limited liability emanates from the view that a corporation is a separate legal entity, the reality is that the entity status of corporations has almost nothing to do with shareholder limited liability. For example, English law conferred entity status on corporations long before shareholders were afforded limited liability. Similarly, the Revised Uniform Partnership Act confers entity status on partnerships, but also provides that partners are individually liable for all partnership obligations. Therefore, this shareholder limited liability emanates mainly from statute.\n\nCorporations exist in part to shield the personal assets of shareholders from personal liability for the debts or actions of a corporation. Unlike a general partnership or sole proprietorship in which the owner could be held responsible for all the debts of the company, a corporation traditionally limited the personal liability of the shareholders.\n\nPiercing the corporate veil typically is most effective with smaller privately held business entities (close corporations) in which the corporation has a small number of shareholders, limited assets, and recognition of separateness of the corporation from its shareholders would promote fraud or an inequitable result.\n\nThere is no record of a successful piercing of the corporate veil for a publicly traded corporation because of the large number of shareholders and the extensive mandatory filings entailed in qualifying for listing on an exchange.\n\nGerman corporate law developed a number of theories in the early 1920s for lifting the corporate veil on the basis of \"domination\" by a parent company over a subsidiary. Today, shareholders can be held liable in the case of an interference destroying the corporation. The corporation is entitled to a minimum of equitable funds. If these are taken away by the shareholder the corporation may claim compensation, even in an insolvency proceeding.\n\nThe corporate veil in UK company law is pierced very rarely. After a series of attempts by the Court of Appeal during the late 1960s and early 1970s to establish a theory of economic reality, and a doctrine of control for lifting the veil, the House of Lords reasserted an orthodox approach. According to a 1990 case at the Court of Appeal, \"Adams v Cape Industries plc\", the only true \"veil piercing\" may take place when a company is set up for fraudulent purposes, or where it is established to avoid an existing obligation. The veil is also often ignored in the process of interpreting a statute, and as a matter of tort law it is open as a matter of authority that a direct duty of care may be owed by the managers of a parent company to accident victims of a subsidiary. There are also significant statements still among the judiciary in support of a broader veil lifting approach in the interests of \"justice\".\n\nThe issue is discussed at length in a 2013 UK Supreme Court case, \"Prest v Petrodel Resources Ltd\".\n\nTort victims and employees, who did not contract with a company or have very unequal bargaining power, have been held to be exempted from the rules of limited liability in \"Chandler v Cape plc\". In this case, the claimant was an employee of Cape plc's wholly owned subsidiary, which had gone insolvent. He successfully brought a claim in tort against Cape plc for causing him an asbestos disease, asbestosis. Arden LJ in the Court of Appeal held that if the parent had interfered in the operations of the subsidiary in any way, such as over trading issues, then it would be attached with responsibility for health and safety issues. Arden LJ emphasised that piercing the corporate veil was not necessary. There would be direct liability in tort for the parent company if it had interfered in the subsidiary's affairs. The High Court before it had held that liability would exist if the parent exercised control, all applying ordinary principles of tort law about liability of a third party for the actions of a tortfeasor. The restrictions on lifting the veil, found in contractual cases made no difference.\n\nIt is an axiomatic principle of English company law that a company is an entity separate and distinct from its members, who are liable only to the extent that they have contributed to the company's capital: \"Salomon v Salomon\" [1897]. The effect of this rule is that the individual subsidiaries within a conglomerate will be treated as separate entities and the parent cannot be made liable for the subsidiaries' debts on insolvency. Furthermore, it can create subsidiaries with inadequate capitalisation and secure loans to the subsidiaries with fixed charges over their assets, despite the fact that this is \"not necessarily the most honest way of trading\". The rule also applies in Scotland.\n\nWhile the secondary literature refers to different means of \"lifting\" or \"piercing\" the veil (see Ottolenghi (1959)), judicial dicta supporting the view that the rule in Salomon is subject to exceptions are thin on the ground. Lord Denning MR outlined the theory of the \"single economic unit\" - wherein the court examined the overall business operation as an economic unit, rather than strict legal form - in \"DHN Food Distributors v Tower Hamlets\". However this has largely been repudiated and has been treated with caution in subsequent judgments.\n\nIn \"Woolfson v Strathclyde BC\", the House of Lords held that it was a decision to be confined to its facts (the question in DHN had been whether the subsidiary of the plaintiff, the former owning the premises on which the parent carried out its business, could receive compensation for loss of business under a compulsory purchase order notwithstanding that under the rule in Salomon, it was the parent and not the subsidiary that had lost the business). Likewise, in \"Bank of Tokyo v Karoon\", Lord Goff, who had concurred in the result in \"DHN\", held that the legal conception of the corporate structure was entirely distinct from the economic realities.\n\nThe \"single economic unit\" theory was likewise rejected by the CA in \"Adams v Cape Industries\", where Slade LJ held that cases where the rule in Salomon had been circumvented were merely instances where they didn't know what to do. The view expressed at first instance by HHJ Southwell QC in \"Creasey v Breachwood\" that English law \"definitely\" recognised the principle that the corporate veil could be lifted was described as a heresy by Hobhouse LJ in \"Ord v Bellhaven\", and these doubts were shared by Moritt V-C in \"Trustor v Smallbone (No 2)\": the corporate veil cannot be lifted merely because justice requires it. Despite the rejection of the \"justice of the case\" test, it is observed from judicial reasoning in veil piercing cases that the courts employ \"equitable discretion\" guided by general principles such as mala fides to test whether the corporate structure has been used as a mere device.\n\nThe cases of \"Tan v Lim\", where a company was used as a \"façade\" (per Russell J.) to defraud the creditors of the defendant and \"Gilford Motor Co Ltd v Horne\", where an injunction was granted against a trader setting up a business which was merely as a vehicle allowing him to circumvent a covenant in restraint of trade are often said to create a \"fraud\" exception to the separate corporate personality. Similarly, in \"Gencor v Dalby\", the tentative suggestion was made that the corporate veil was being lifted where the company was the \"alter ego\" of the defendant. In truth, as Lord Cooke (1997) has noted extrajudicially, it is because of the separate identity of the company concerned and not despite it that equity intervened in all of these cases. They are not instances of the corporate veil being pierced but instead involve the application of other rules of law.\n\nThere have been cases in which it is to the advantage of the shareholder to have the corporate structure ignored. Courts have been reluctant to agree to this. The often cited case \"Macaura v Northern Assurance Co Ltd\" is an example of that. Mr Macaura was the sole owner of a company he had set up to grow timber. The trees were destroyed by fire but the insurer refused to pay since the policy was with Macaura (not the company) and he was not the owner of the trees. The House of Lords upheld that refusal based on the separate legal personality of the company.\n\nIn English criminal law there have been cases in which the courts have been prepared to pierce the veil of incorporation. For example, in confiscation proceedings under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 monies received by a company can, depending upon the particular facts of the case as found by the court, be regarded as having been 'obtained' by an individual (who is usually, but not always, a director of the company). In consequence those monies may become an element in the individual's 'benefit' obtained from criminal conduct (and hence subject to confiscation from him). The position regarding 'piercing the veil' in English criminal law was given in the Court of Appeal judgment in the case of \"R v Seager\" in which the court said (at para 76):\n\nIn the United States, corporate veil piercing is the most litigated issue in corporate law. Although courts are reluctant to hold an active shareholder liable for actions that are legally the responsibility of the corporation, even if the corporation has a single shareholder, they will often do so if the corporation was markedly noncompliant with corporate formalities, to prevent fraud, or to achieve equity in certain cases of undercapitalization.\n\nIn most jurisdictions, no bright-line rule exists and the ruling is based on common law precedents. In the United States, different theories, most important \"alter ego\" or \"instrumentality rule\", attempted to create a piercing standard. Mostly, they rest upon three basic prongs—namely:\nHowever, the theories failed to articulate a real-world approach which courts could directly apply to their cases. Thus, courts struggle with the proof of each prong and rather analyze all given factors. This is known as \"totality of circumstances\".\n\nThere is also the matter of what jurisdiction the corporation is incorporated in if the corporation is authorized to do business in more than one state. All corporations have one specific state (their \"home\" state) to which they are incorporated as a \"domestic\" corporation, and if they operate in other states, they would apply for authority to do business in those other states as a \"foreign\" corporation. In determining whether or not the corporate veil may be pierced, the courts are required to use the laws of the corporation's home state. This issue can be significant; for example, California law is more liberal in allowing a corporate veil to be pierced, while the laws of neighboring Nevada makes doing so more difficult. Thus, the owner(s) of a corporation operating in California would be subject to different potential for the corporation's veil to be pierced if the corporation was to be sued, depending on whether the corporation was a California domestic corporation or was a Nevada foreign corporation operating in California.\n\nGenerally, the plaintiff has to prove that the incorporation was merely a formality and that the corporation neglected corporate formalities and protocols, such as voting to approve major corporate actions in the context of a duly authorized corporate meeting. This is quite often the case when a corporation facing legal liability transfers its assets and business to another corporation with the same management and shareholders. It also happens with single person corporations that are managed in a haphazard manner. As such, the veil can be pierced in both civil cases and where regulatory proceedings are taken against a shell corporation.\n\nFactors that a court may consider when determining whether or not to pierce the corporate veil include the following:\n\n\nIt is important to note that not all of these factors need to be met in order for the court to pierce the corporate veil. Further, some courts might find that one factor is so compelling in a particular case that it will find the shareholders personally liable. For example, many large corporations do not pay dividends, without any suggestion of corporate impropriety, but particularly for a small or close corporation the failure to pay dividends may suggest financial impropriety.\n\n\nIn recent years, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in the United States has made use of corporate veil piercing arguments and logic as a means of recapturing income, estate, or gift tax revenue, particularly from business entities created primarily for estate planning purposes. A number of U.S. Tax Court cases involving Family Limited Partnerships (FLPs) illustrate the IRS's use of veil-piercing arguments. Since owners of U.S. business entities created for asset protection and estate purposes often fail to maintain proper corporate compliance, the IRS has achieved multiple high-profile court victories.\n\nReverse veil piercing is when the debt of a shareholder is imputed onto the corporation. Throughout the United States, the general rule is that reverse veil piercing is not allowed. However the California Court of Appeals has allowed reverse veil piercing against a limited liability company (LLC) based largely on the difference in remedies available to creditors when it comes to attaching assets of a debtors' LLC as compared to attaching assets of a corporation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5615180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5615180", "title": "Piracy Act 1698", "text": "Piracy Act 1698\n\nThe Piracy Act 1698 (11 Will 3 c 7) was an Act of the Parliament of England passed in the eleventh year of William III. The long title of the Act is \"An Act for the more effectual suppression of Piracy\". \n\nThe main purpose behind the statute was to make some corrections to the Offences at Sea Act 1536 (28 Hen 8, c. 15). The 1700 statute states that “it hath been found by experience” that the courts met with “great trouble and charges in sending them into England” to be tried for their crimes or cannot easily “be questioned for such their piracies and robberies” because this was the necessary measure for enforcing the law under the statute of Henry the VIII. The 1700 statute changed this law to allow for acts of piracy to be “examined, inquired of, tried, heard and determined, and adjudged in any place at sea, or upon the land, in any of his Majesty’s islands, plantations, colonies, dominions, forts, or factories”. This enabled admirals to hold a court session to hear the trials of pirates in any place they deemed necessary, rather than requiring that the trial be held in England.\n\nThe statute then proceeds to explain what is required for these admiralty court sessions to function, how they will run, and what powers that statute grants to the commissioners. The commissioners can “call and assemble a court of admiralty when and as often as occasion shall require”. In addition, these courts shall consist of at least seven people who “are known merchants, factors, or planters, or such as are captains, lieutenants, or warrant officers” and who are “fitting and voting in the said court”. The statute also grants the commissioners of these vice-admiralty courts with “full power and authority” to issue warrants, summon the necessary witnesses, and “to do all thing necessary for the hearing and final determination of any case of piracy, robbery, or felony”. The statute then moves to instruct the commissioners on the proceedings of the courts in a significant amount of detail ranging from the oath that the president of the court must take, what actions were to be taken upon pleas of guilty or not guilty, and how to examine witnesses and give sentence.\n\nIn addition, the statute adds additional instances, not listed in the Offences at Sea Act of 1536, which expanded the legal definition of piracy as a capital crime. The first of these includes any subject of the crown who commits any act of piracy “under colour of any commission from any foreign prince or state.” Additionally, any commander who “piratically and feloniously run away with his or their ships\", anyone who may “consult, combine, or confederate” with any pirates, or “shall lay violent hands upon his commander whereby to hinder him from fighting” pirates who may be attempting to capture their vessel. \n\nThis statute also added the offence of being an accessory to piracy. Under the 1700 statute, any individual who may “knowingly or willingly … aid and assist, or maintain, procure, command, counsel, or advise” and persons to commit any act of piracy “shall be deemed and adjudged to be accessory to such piracy”. This title of accessory was also extended to any persons who “receive, entertain, or conceal any such pirate or robber”. These accessories “shall be enquired of, tried, heard, determined, and adjudged” following the statute of 1536 by Henry VIII and “shall suffer such pains of death” just as the pirates themselves would.\nThe majority of the cases tried under these admiralty courts followed the exact proceedings laid out in the 1700 statute. In addition, most pirates appeared to have been given a fair trial because, if the accused could not be confirmed to have taken part in the said piracy by witness testimony, they were often acquitted. However, in the admiralty court, murder was almost always considered the more serious charge. In fact, during a 1737 case in which Edward Johnson and Nicholas Williams were being tried, the Counsel proceeded with the murder charge after stating: “I will not touch upon the Piracy, that will come under your consideration hereafter.” This shows that the Counsel prosecuted the accused for piracy only after the trial for murder was finished. \n\nThe death penalty under this Act was abolished by the Piracy Act 1837. \n\nIn the United Kingdom, the whole Act was repealed by section 1(1) of, and Group 2 of Part I of Schedule 1 to, the Statute Law (Repeals) Act 1993.\n\nThe Piracy Act 1698 was repealed for the Australian Capital Territory by section 6(1) of, and Part 4.11 of Schedule 4 to, the \"Statute Law Amendment Act 2002 (No 2)\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1598791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1598791", "title": "Professional responsibility", "text": "Professional responsibility\n\nProfessional responsibility is the area of legal practice that encompasses the duties of attorneys to act in a professional manner, obey the law, avoid conflicts of interest, and put the interests of clients ahead of their own interests.\n\nCommon violations include\n\nFollowing the Watergate scandal, which involved questionable behavior by a number of lawyers, the American Bar Association (\"ABA\") mandated that all American law schools incorporate a required course on this topic. This is typically offered as an upper-level course, most often taken in the second year. Professional Responsibility courses include matters pertaining to basic legal ethics, as well as bar admissions, legal advertising, disbarment proceedings, ineffective assistance of counsel, and judicial misconduct.\n\nMaynard Pirsig, published one of the first course books on legal ethics, \"Cases and Materials on Legal Ethics\", 1949, later \"Cases and Materials on the Standards of the Legal Profession\", 1957, and \"Cases and Materials on Professional Responsibility\", 1965.\n\nMaynard Pirsig also published the definition of \"Legal Ethics,\" in \"Encyclopedia Britannica\", 1974.\n\nEvery state in the United States tests prospective attorneys on their knowledge of professional responsibility. 47 states and the District of Columbia require bar applicants to pass an exam called the Multistate Professional Responsibility Exam (\"MPRE\"). The remaining three states test professional responsibility on their local bar examinations. Furthermore, the ABA promulgated the ABA Model Rules of Professional Conduct. in 1983; when Maine adopted the Model Rules in August 2009, California became the only remaining U.S. jurisdiction not to have adopted the Model Rules in whole or in part. Most states have only minor variations from the Model Rules, if any. Attorneys who violate professional responsibility rules may be subject to sanctions ranging from reprimands to temporary suspension to permanent disbarment. The responsibility is defined as \"a charge assigned to a unique actor to signify its accountabilities concerning a unique business task\".\n\n"}
{"id": "12475487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12475487", "title": "Rouanet Law", "text": "Rouanet Law\n\nThe Rouanet Law is a Brazilian law named after Sérgio Paulo Rouanet whose role is providing monetary funds for use in art and culture, including the production of movies. It is intended to encourage cultural investments and its major highlight is the tax incentive policy that enables companies and citizens to deduct a portion of income tax.\n\nAll projects must be approved by the Brazilian Ministry of Culture that examines technical feasibility of activities. \n\nDespite the pros, there is criticism against the law, which includes the possibility of funds being misappropriated. Critics also argue that the Ministry, rather than directly investing in culture, began to let companies themselves decide which kind of culture deserved to be sponsored.\n\nThe government's incentives to culture sums up to R$310 million (approximately US$82 million), in which R$30 million (U$8 million) goes to the and R$280 million (U$74 million) to the Rouanet Law, while the tax incentive no longer collects R$1 billion (US$263 million) to the Treasury.\n\nIn 2018, an attempt to revoke the Rouanet Law ruled the Federal Senate. The 2017 Legislative Suggestion Nº 49 requested the revocation of the law, but was rejected by the Human Rights Commission and Participatory Legislation of the Senate, following the report of Senator Marta Suplicy.\n\n"}
{"id": "533963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=533963", "title": "Select committee", "text": "Select committee\n\nA select committee is a committee made up of a small number of parliamentary members appointed to deal with particular areas or issues originating in the Westminster system of parliamentary democracy. Select committees exist in the British Parliament, as well as in other parliaments based on the Westminster model, such as those in Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, India and New Zealand.\n\nIt is a special subcommittee of a legislature or assembly governed under a committee system, like \"Robert's Rules of Order\". They are often investigative in nature, collecting data or evidence for a law or problem, and will dissolve immediately after they report their findings to their superiors.\n\nThese are very common in government legislatures, and are used to solve special problems, hence their name.\n\nUnder Rule 125 of the Rajya Sabha Rules and Procedures, any member may move as an amendment that a bill be referred to a select committee and, if the motion is carried, the bill shall be referred to such a committee. The House decides the members of such committee.\n\nIn the United States, notable select committees include the Select Committee on Presidential Campaign Activities (for investigating Nixon's role in Watergate) and the Select Committee on Benghazi.\n\n"}
{"id": "15392826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15392826", "title": "Side judge", "text": "Side judge\n\nSide judge, or assistant judge, is a judicial position apparently unique to the state of Vermont. There are two side judges in each of Vermont's 14 counties.\n\nWhile Family, District and Superior Court judges are appointed by the Governor, probate and side judges are elected. Side judges run at-large (not specifically for one of the two seats) and county-wide in November of even-numbered, non-presidential election years, and serve four-year terms. The terms begin on the following February 1.\n\nIn the event of a vacancy, the Governor is empowered to appoint a replacement.\n\nSide judges sit with the judge in Superior (civil cases and violations of traffic laws and municipal ordinances) and Family Court. There are Superior and Family Courts located in each of Vermont's 14 counties at their \"shire town\" or county seat.\n\nThere are normally two side judges on the bench, but the court may proceed with only one side judge or none. In theory the side judges, who are generally not attorneys, have input only on matters of fact, with matters of law left to the presiding judge, but the vote of a side judge has the same weight as that of the judge, so two side judges can outvote the judge. If there is only one side judge and the side judge and the judge disagree on a matter of fact, a mistrial is declared. Side judges who undergo some training may also sit alone in small claims, uncontested divorces, traffic offenses, and violations of municipal ordinances.\n\nSide judges have administrative duties in addition to court responsibilities. They appoint the County Clerk, Treasurer and Auditor, Road Commissioners, and Notaries Public, manage the county courthouse, sheriff's office and other property, and prepare the county budget. As a result, side judges receive two types of compensation: a salary for their administrative duties, paid by the county, and a per diem for their judicial duties, paid by the state.\n\nOnce the county budget has been determined, municipalities in the county are assessed a portion, based on their grand list (total evaluation of property in the municipality).\n\nVermont's Assistant Judges also have a professional association and lobbying group, the Vermont Association of County Judges.\n\nThe position of side judge was part of Vermont's government during the mid to late 1700s period of the Vermont Republic, and was continued in the Vermont Constitution when Vermont was admitted to the Union as the fourteenth state in 1791.\n\nThe idea of side judges appear to have been borrowed from the colony of Pennsylvania, and they were also part of the judiciary in other states, including New Hampshire and Connecticut. In Vermont, they were created in part because early Vermont residents were distrustful of lawyers, many of whom had received their training in England before the American Revolution, making their loyalty suspect, or had supported New York during the dispute between New York's colonial government and Vermont's original white settlers over control of Vermont's first towns. The founders of Vermont had purchased their land grants from Benning Wentworth, the Governor of New Hampshire. When the British government supported New York's attempts to assert control, those with New Hampshire land grants refused to re-purchase them from New York. Adding lay judges to the courts was a means of ensuring that pro-British or pro-New York judges could not control the courts.\n\nThough reorganization of the judiciary in other states eliminated the side judge position, It has continued in Vermont. Some updates and changes to Vermont's court system included elimination or a reduced role for the side judges, but most of those efforts have been unsuccessful.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9261301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9261301", "title": "Special Field Orders No. 120", "text": "Special Field Orders No. 120\n\nSpecial Field Orders No. 120 (series 1864) were military orders issued during the American Civil War, on November 9, 1864, by Major General William Tecumseh Sherman of the Union Army. He issued these orders in preparation for his famous March to the Sea, also known as the Savannah Campaign.\n\nThis order is part of the Official Records of the American Civil War. It can be found in Series I — Military Operations, Volume XXXIX, Part III, Pages 713-714. The volume was published in 1892.\n\n"}
{"id": "39758984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39758984", "title": "Special Warfare Department", "text": "Special Warfare Department\n\nThe Special Warfare Department (SWD, ) was the special forces unit of the Turkish Army. Founded in 1965, it was formed out of the Army's \"Tactical Mobilisation Group\" (, STK). It was disbanded in 1992, with special operations taken over by the new Special Forces Command.\n\nFormer members include Korkut Eken.\n\nThe SWD were also fund and trained by the USA. During the Cold War the SWD closely cooperated with the CIA.\n\nThe SWD encouraged and protected the Turkish Grey Wolves when they unleashed waves of bomb attacks and shootings that killed thousands of people, including students, lawyers, journalists, public officials, labor organizers, ethnic Kurds and others, in the 1970s.\n\nThe SWD established the TMT at Cyprus in 1958 to counter the EOKA and to force partition of the island and supported it logistically and militarily. Arms were transferred from Turkey to support TMT, but as the arms transfer was blocked at international water the SWD contacted arms smugglers for this task. Also, the SWD was involved in the Turkish invasion of Cyprus in 1974, under the command of Sabri Yirmibeşoğlu. In 2010 Yirmibeşoğlu reported to the television news channel Habertürk TV that Turkey burned a mosque during the Cyprus Intercommunal violence in order to foster civil resistance against Greeks on the disputed island, and that their rules of war included \"false flag\" acts, engaging in acts of sabotage made to look as if they were carried out by the enemy.\n\n"}
{"id": "19692107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19692107", "title": "Transport Act 1985", "text": "Transport Act 1985\n\nThe Transport Act of 1985 was an Act of Parliament in the United Kingdom, it introduced privatized and deregulated bus services throughout Great Britain and came into effect in October of 1986.\n\nThe Transport Act of 1985 was created as a response to growing concern about the environmental effect the private transportation was having and the public's objection to an increase in road construction. The Transport Act of 1985 was introduced by Margaret Thatcher and the Act committed to reduce the amount the public paid for commercial objects. This was achieved by reducing the control governments had of bus systems and reducing the subsidies to bus companies. The Conservative government also believed the removal of subsidies and local government control would lead to an increase in competition between companies. The deregulation of Buses applied throughout the United Kingdom, excluding bus services in Greater London, and was lead by the Conservative government.  \n\nIn 1984 a proposal to deregulate local bus services was published in the white paper \"Buses\" and in more detailed consultation papers. The Transport Act of 1985 (part I) brought these proposals into effect. \n\nDeregulation, elimination of barriers, and the transfer to the private sector were some of the major changes the Transport Act of 1985 established.  Privatization and bus deregulation came into effect on 26 October 1986. Local authorities were required to transfer their municipally-owned bus services to separate companies. Although most of these companies have since been privatized, with the exception of Lothian Buses in Edinburgh; a few other municipal bus companies remain today. The Transport Act of 1985 also mandated that local governmentspublish statements of their own polices for bus services deemed socially vital that were not operated by commercial companies. \n\nLondon faced a different type of deregulation. The standard deregulation that applied to other cities in the United Kingdom was not applied to bus services in Greater London; instead, the Act brought about a system of franchised routes operated by private companies but managed by London Buses Ltd. Meaning that although the bus companies in London were privatized London's government still retained the ability to regulate the companies. At the time the Transport Act of 1985 was put into place London Bus companies were governed by the London Regional Transport Act of 1984.\n\nPart I of the Transport Act of 1985 eradicated, excluding London, the need for the required road service licence throughout the United Kingdom. Part I replaced service licensing with a system of registration. This caused licensing authorities losing many of their powers and made it possible for operators to register new routes. For an operator to register a new route the licensed operator had to supply the traffic commissioner with information of the proposed route, the timeline for the trip, stopping arrangements, the vehicles to be used, and the terminal points. In accordance with the Act the traffic commissioner had to received the registration at least 42 days prior to when the route is to be run. It was mandatory for the notice to go through the traffic commissioner for a licence bus operator to operate. After approval the operator was required to run the route according to the specifications provided in the registration. \n\nDeregulation also lead to firms being able to charge any fares they wish, run routes, and freely enter and leave the market. This was accomplished by reducing the amount of subsides local governments could provide for services. \n\nPrivatization proposals were put forth to change the structure of the bus industry. The bus industry was managed mainly by public sector companies in the years prior to 1985. Privatization was introduced by the Conservative government as a way to achieve better access to private capital and more committed management. In order to achieve this goal the Conservative government made it so local governments could only provide subsides for services and prohibited subsidies that would promote low fares. \n\nThe Transport Act of 1985 changed how bus services were run in the United Kingdom. The Act introduced the largest change in the framework of bus services in over five decades and it replaced the prior publicly owned and highly regulated bus service with a largely competitive commercial system. Additionally, the removal of subsidies made it so different firms had to bid on the right to operate with subsidized services.\n\n"}
{"id": "145809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145809", "title": "Unlawful combatant", "text": "Unlawful combatant\n\nAn unlawful combatant, illegal combatant or unprivileged combatant/belligerent is a person who directly engages in armed conflict in violation of the laws of war. An unlawful combatant may be detained or prosecuted under the domestic law of the detaining state for such action, subject to international treaties on justice and human rights.\n\nThe Geneva Conventions apply in wars between two or more sovereign states. of the Third Geneva Convention states that the status of a detainee may be determined by a \"competent tribunal\". Until such time, he must be treated as a prisoner of war. After a \"competent tribunal\" has determined that an individual detainee is an unlawful combatant, the \"detaining power\" may choose to accord the detained unlawful combatant the rights and privileges of a prisoner of war as described in the Third Geneva Convention, but is not required to do so. An unlawful combatant who is not a national of a neutral state, and who is not a national of a co-belligerent state, retains rights and privileges under the Fourth Geneva Convention so that he must be \"treated with humanity and, in case of trial, shall not be deprived of the rights of fair and regular trial\".\n\nWhile the concept of an unlawful combatant is included in the Third Geneva Convention, the phrase itself does not appear in the document. Article 4 of the Third Geneva Convention does describe categories under which a person may be entitled to POW status, and there are other international treaties that deny lawful combatant status for mercenaries and children. In the United States, the Military Commissions Act of 2006 codified the legal definition of this term and invested the U.S. President with broad discretion to determine whether a person may be designated an unlawful enemy combatant under United States law. The assumption that such a category as unlawful combatant exists is not contradicted by the findings of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia in the Celebici Judgment. The judgment quoted the 1958 International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) commentary on the Fourth Geneva Convention: Every person in enemy hands must be either a prisoner of war and, as such, be covered by the Third Convention; or a civilian covered by the Fourth Convention. Furthermore, \"\"There is no\" intermediate status; nobody in enemy hands can be outside the law\", because in the opinion of the ICRC, \"If civilians directly engage in hostilities, they are considered 'unlawful' or 'unprivileged' combatants or belligerents (the treaties of humanitarian law do not expressly contain these terms). They may be prosecuted under the domestic law of the detaining state for such action\".\nThe Geneva Conventions do not recognize any lawful status for combatants in conflicts not involving two or more nation states. A state in such a conflict is legally bound only to observe Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions and may ignore all of the other Articles. But each one of them is completely free to apply all or part of the remaining Articles of the Convention.\n\nThe term \"unlawful combatant\" has been used for the past century in legal literature, military manuals, and case law. However, unlike the terms \"combatant\", \"prisoner of war\", and \"civilian\", the term \"unlawful combatant\" is not mentioned in either the Hague or the Geneva Conventions. So while the former terms are well understood and clear under international law, the term \"unlawful combatant\" is not.\n\nAt the First Hague Conference, which opened on 6 May 1899, there was a disagreement between the Great Powers—which considered \"francs-tireurs\" unlawful combatants subject to execution on capture—and a group of small countries headed by Belgium—which opposed the very principle of the rights and duties of armies of occupation and demanded an unlimited right of resistance for the population of occupied territories. As a compromise, the Russian delegate, F. F. Martens, proposed the Martens Clause, which is included in the preamble to the \"1899 Hague Convention II – Laws and Customs of War on Land\". Similar wording has been incorporated into many subsequent treaties that cover extensions to humanitarian law.\n\nThe Geneva Convention relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War, 12 August 1949 (GCIII) of 1949 defines the requirements for a captive to be eligible for treatment as a POW. A lawful combatant is a person who commits belligerent acts, and, when captured, is treated as a POW. An \"unlawful combatant\" is someone who commits belligerent acts but does not qualify for POW status under GCIII Articles 4 and 5.\n\nThese terms thus divide combatants in a war zone into two classes: those in armies and organised militias and the like (lawful combatants), and those who are not. The critical distinction is that a \"lawful combatant\" (defined above) cannot be held personally responsible for violations of civilian laws that are permissible under the laws and customs of war; and if captured, a lawful combatant must be treated as a prisoner of war by the enemy under the conditions laid down in the Third Geneva Convention.\n\nIf there is any doubt about whether a detained alleged combatant is a \"lawful combatant\" then the combatant must be held as a prisoner of war until his or her status has been determined by \"a competent tribunal\". If that tribunal rules that a combatant is an \"unlawful combatant\" then the person's status changes to that of a civilian which may give them some rights under the Fourth Geneva Convention.\n\nA civilian \"in the hands\" of the enemy often gains rights through the \"Geneva Convention Relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War\", 12 August 1949 (GCIV), if they qualify as a \"protected person\".\nIf the individual fulfills the criteria as a protected person, they are entitled to all the protections mentioned in GCIV. It should be emphasised that, in a war zone, a national of a neutral state, with normal diplomatic representation, is not a protected person under GCIV.\n\nIf a combatant does not qualify as a POW, then, if they qualify as a protected person, they receive all the rights which a non-combatant civilian receives under GCIV, but the party to the conflict may invoke Articles of GCIV to curtail those rights. The relevant Articles are 5 and 42.\n\nIt is likely that if a competent tribunal under GCIII Article 5 finds they are an \"unlawful combatant\", and if they are a protected person under GCIV, the Party to the conflict will invoke GCIV Article 5. In this case, the \"unlawful combatant\" does not have rights under the present Convention as granting them those rights would be prejudicial to the security of the concerned state. They do, however, retain the right \"...to be treated with humanity and, in case of trial, shall not be deprived of the rights of fair and regular trial prescribed by the present Convention\",\n\nIf, after a \"fair and regular trial\", an individual is found guilty of a crime, they can be punished by whatever lawful methods are available to the party to the conflict.\n\nIf the party does not use Article 5 of GCIV, the party may invoke Article 42 of GCIV and use \"internment\" to detain the \"unlawful combatant\".\n\nFor those nations that have ratified Protocol I of the Geneva Conventions, are also bound by Article 45.3 of that protocol which curtails GCIV Article 5.\n\nCivilians are covered by GCIV Article 3:\n\nIf the combatant is engaged in \"armed conflict not of an international character\" then under the Article 3 of the general provisions of the Geneva Conventions they should be \"treated humanely\", and if tried \"sentences must ... be pronounced by a regularly constituted court\"\n\nThe last time that American and British unlawful combatants were executed, after \"a regularly constituted court\", was the Luanda Trial as mercenaries.\n\nA combatant who is a POW, and who is subsequently paroled on the condition that he will not take up arms against the belligerent power (or co-belligerent powers) that had held him as a prisoner, is considered a parole violator if he breaks said condition. He is regarded as guilty of a breach in the laws and customs of war, unless there are mitigating circumstances such as coercion by his state to break his parole. As with other combatants, he is still protected by the Third Geneva Convention (GCIII), until a competent tribunal finds him in violation of his parole.\n\nThe Geneva Convention (1929) made no mention of parole, but as it was supplemental to the Hague conventions, it relied on the wording of Hague to address this issue. The authors of GCIII, 1949, decided to include a reference with some modification to parole, because during the Second World War, some belligerent countries did permit such release to some extent.\n\nArticle 21 of GCIII (1949) reproduces the Articles 10 and 11 of the \"Hague IV: Regulations Respecting the Laws and Customs of War on Land\", 18 October 1907, but did not include Article 12, which provides: \"Prisoners of war liberated on parole and recaptured bearing arms against the Government to whom they had pledged their honour, or against the allies of that Government, forfeit their right to be treated as prisoners of war, and can be brought before the courts\". Nevertheless, contained in the commentary on GCIII: The only safeguard available to a parole violator—who has been coerced into fighting, and who has been recaptured by the Power that detained him previously—is contained in the procedural guarantees to which he is entitled, pursuant to Article 85 of GCIII.\n\nIn the opinion of Major Gary D. Brown, United States Air Force (USAF), this means that \"[T]he Hague Convention specified that parole breakers would forfeit their right to be treated as prisoners of war if recaptured. The 1949 Geneva Convention is less direct on the issue. A recaptured parole violator under the Convention would be afforded the opportunity to defend himself against charges of parole breaking. In the interim, the accused violator would be entitled to P[o]W status\".\n\nUnder Article 47 of Protocol I (Additional to the Geneva Conventions of 12 August 1949, and relating to the Protection of Victims of International Armed Conflicts) it is stated in the first sentence \"A mercenary shall not have the right to be a combatant or a prisoner of war\".\n\nOn 4 December 1989 the United Nations passed resolution 44/34 the \"International Convention against the Recruitment, Use, Financing and Training of Mercenaries\". It entered into force on 20 October 2001 and is usually known as the UN Mercenary Convention. Article 2 makes it an offence to employ a mercenary and Article 3.1 states that \"A mercenary, as defined in article 1 of the present Convention, who participates directly in hostilities or in a concerted act of violence, as the case may be, commits an offence for the purposes of the Convention\".\n\nThe United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, Article 38, (1989) proclaimed: \"State parties shall take all feasible measures to ensure that persons who have not attained the age of 15 years do not take a direct part in hostilities\".\n\nIn a 2003 briefing for the 4th UN Security Council open debate on children and armed conflict by Human Rights Watch they state in their introduction that:\n\nOn 26 July 2005, the United Nations Security Council unanimously passed UN Security Council Resolution 1612, the sixth in a series of resolutions about children and armed conflict. Resolution 1612 established the first comprehensive monitoring and reporting system for enforcing compliance among those groups using child soldiers in armed conflict.\n\nTwo separate issues to be determined in evaluating the category \"unlawful combatant\" as applied by the government of the United States. One issue is whether such a category \"could\" exist without violating the Geneva Conventions, and if such a category does exist, what steps the United States executive branch needs to take to comply with municipal laws as interpreted by the judicial branch of the United States government.\n\nThe term \"unlawful combatant\" has been used for the past century in legal literature, military manuals and case law. The term \"unlawful combatants\" was first used in U.S. municipal law in a 1942 United States Supreme Court decision in the case \"Ex parte Quirin\". In this case, the Supreme Court upheld the jurisdiction of a U.S. military tribunal over the trial of eight German saboteurs in the U.S. during World War II. This decision states:\nThe validity of this case, as basis for denying prisoners in the War on Terrorism protection by the Geneva Conventions, has been disputed. A report by the American Bar Association commenting on this case, states:\nSince the 1942 Quirin case, the U.S. signed and ratified the 1949 Geneva Conventions, which are, therefore, considered to be a part of U.S. federal law, in accordance with the Supremacy Clause in the Constitution of the United States. In addition the U.S. Supreme Court invalidated this premise, in Hamdan v. Rumsfeld, by ruling that Common Article Three of the Geneva Conventions applies to detainees in the War on Terror, and that the Military Tribunals used to try these suspects were in violation of U.S. and international law.\n\nCongress addressed these issues in the Military Commissions Act of 2006, so that enemy combatants and unlawful enemy combatants might be tried under military commissions; however, on 12 June 2008, the Supreme Court ruled, in Boumediene v. Bush, that Guantanamo Bay captives were entitled to access the U.S. justice system, and that the military commissions as constituted under the Military Commissions Act of 2006 fell short of what was required of a court under the United States constitution (see the section below for more details).\n\nIn the wake of the September 11, 2001 attacks, the United States Congress passed a resolution known as the \"Authorization for Use of Military Force\" (AUMF) on 18 September 2001. In this, Congress invoked the War Powers Resolution and stated:\n\nUsing the authorization granted to him by Congress, on 13 November 2001, President Bush issued a Presidential Military Order: \"Detention, Treatment, and Trial of Certain Non-Citizens in the War Against Terrorism\" which allowed \"individuals ... to be detained, and, when tried, to be tried for violations of the laws of war and other applicable laws by military tribunals\", where such individuals are members of the organization known as al Qa'ida; or has conspired or committed acts of international terrorism, or have as their aim to cause, injury to or adverse effects on the United States, its citizens, national security, foreign policy, or economy. The order also specifies that the detainees are to be treated humanely.\n\nThe length of time for which a detention of such individuals can continue before being tried by a military tribunal is not specified in the military order. The military order uses the term \"detainees\" to describe the individuals detained under the military order. The U.S. administration chooses to describe the detainees held under the military order as \"illegal enemy combatants\".\n\nWith the U.S. invasion of Afghanistan, some lawyers in the Justice Department's Office of Legal Counsel and in the office of White House counsel Alberto Gonzales advised President Bush that he did not have to comply with the Geneva Conventions in handling detainees in the War on Terrorism. This applied not only to members of al Qa'ida but the entire Taliban, because, they argued, Afghanistan was a \"failed state\".\n\nDespite opposition from the U.S. State Department, which warned against ignoring the Geneva Conventions, the Bush administration thenceforth began holding such individuals captured in Afghanistan under the military order and not under the usual conditions of Prisoners of War. For those U.S. citizens detained under the military order, U.S. officials, such as Vice President Dick Cheney, argue that the urgency of the post-9/11 environment called for such tactics in administration's war against terrorism.\n\nMost of the individuals detained by the U.S. military on the orders of the U.S. administration were initially captured in Afghanistan. The foreign detainees are held in the Guantanamo Bay detention camp established for the purpose at the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base, Cuba. Guantanamo was chosen because, although it is under the \"de facto\" control of the United States administration, it is not a sovereign territory of the United States, and a previous Supreme Court ruling \"Johnson v. Eisentrager\" in 1950 had ruled that U.S. courts had no jurisdiction over enemy aliens held outside the USA.\n\nIn \"Rasul v. Bush\", the Supreme Court ruled that \"the U.S. Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, Naval Base, which the United States occupies under a lease and treaty recognizing Cuba's ultimate sovereignty, but giving this country complete jurisdiction and control for so long as it does not abandon the leased areas\", and that as the United States had complete jurisdiction, the federal courts have the authority under the federal \"habeas corpus\" statute to decide whether foreign nationals (non-U.S. citizens) held in Guantanamo Bay were rightfully imprisoned. This ruling largely overturned the judicial advantage for the U.S. administration of using the Naval Base that \"Johnson v. Eisentrager\" seemed to have conferred.\n\nThere have been a number of legal challenges made on behalf of the detainees held in Guantanamo Bay detention camp and in other places. These include:\n\nYaser Hamdi was captured in Afghanistan in November 2001. He was taken to Guantanamo Bay Naval Base, but was transferred to jails in Virginia and South Carolina after it became known that he was a U.S. citizen. On 23 September 2004, the United States Justice Department agreed to release Hamdi to Saudi Arabia, where he is also a citizen, on the condition that he gave up his U.S. citizenship. The deal also bars Hamdi from visiting certain countries and to inform Saudi officials if he plans to leave the kingdom. He was a party to a Supreme Court decision \"Hamdi v. Rumsfeld\" which issued a decision on 28 June 2004, repudiating the U.S. government's unilateral assertion of executive authority to suspend the constitutional protections of individual liberty of a U.S. citizen. The Court recognized the power of the government to detain unlawful combatants, but ruled that detainees must have the ability to challenge their detention before an impartial judge. Though no single opinion of the Court commanded a majority, eight of the nine justices of the Court agreed that the Executive Branch does not have the power to hold indefinitely a U.S. citizen without basic due process protections enforceable through judicial review.\n\nOn 8 May 2002, José Padilla, also known as Abdullah al-Muhajir, was arrested by FBI agents at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport and held as material witness on the warrant issued in New York State about the 2001 9/11 attacks. On 9 June 2002 President Bush issued an order to Secretary Rumsfeld to detain Padilla as an \"enemy combatant\". The order justified the detention by leaning on the AUMF which authorized the President to \"use all necessary force against those nations, organizations, or \"persons\"\" and in the opinion of the administration a U.S. citizen can be an enemy combatant (this was decided by the United States Supreme Court in the case of \"Ex parte Quirin\"). Padilla is being detained in Miami and is accused of providing material support for terrorism.\n\nFollowing the \"Hamdan v. Rumsfeld\"-ruling (November 2004) the Bush administration has begun using Combatant Status Review Tribunals to determine the status of detainees. By doing so the obligation under Article 5 of the GCIII was to be addressed.\n\nHowever, critics maintain these CSRTs are inadequate to warrant acceptance as \"competent tribunal\". Their principal arguments are:\nNotable cases pointed to by critics as demonstrating the flawed nature of the procedure include: Mustafa Ait Idir, Moazzam Begg, Murat Kurnaz, Feroz Abbasi, and Martin Mubanga. A comment by legal experts states:\n\nJames Crisfield, the legal advisor to the Tribunals, offered his legal opinion, that CSRT \"do not have the discretion to determine that a detainee should be classified as a prisoner of war — only whether the detainee satisfies the definition of 'enemy combatant'\". Determining whether a captive should be classified as a prisoner of war is the sole purpose of a competent tribunal.\n\nAnalysis of these Tribunals by two lawyers for Guananamo detainees, Professor Mark P. Denbeaux of the Seton Hall University School of Law, his son Joshua Denbeaux, and some of his law students resulted in a report called \"No-hearing hearings\". In essence it supports the criticism voiced above.\n\nAs of 17 October 2006, when President Bush signed the Military Commissions Act of 2006 into law, Title 10 of the United States Code was amended to include a definition of an \"unlawful enemy combatant\" as\n\nThe definition of a lawful enemy combatant is also given, and much of the rest of the law sets out the specific procedures for determining whether a given detainee of the U.S. armed forces is an unlawful enemy combatant and how such combatants may or may not be treated in general and tried for their crimes in particular. Among its more controversial provisions, the law stipulates that a non United States citizen held as an enemy combatant or is awaiting such determination may not seek habeas corpus relief. Such detainees must simply wait until the military convene a detainee status review tribunal (under the procedures described in the Detainee Treatment Act of 2005).\n\nImmediately after Bush signed the Act into law, the U.S. Justice Department notified the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia that the Court no longer had jurisdiction over a combined \"habeas\" case that it had been considering since 2004. A notice dated the following day listed 196 other pending habeas cases for which it made the same claim.\n\nOf the first three war crimes cases brought against Guantanamo Bay detainees under the Military Commissions Act, one resulted in a plea bargain and the two others were dismissed on jurisdictional grounds.\n\nOn 4 June 2007, in two separate cases, military tribunals dismissed charges against detainees who had been designated as \"enemy combatants\" but not as \"unlawful enemy combatants\". The first case was that of Omar Khadr, a Canadian who had been designated as an \"enemy combatant\" in 2004. Khadr was accused of throwing a grenade during a firefight in Afghanistan in 2002. Colonel Peter Brownback ruled that the military tribunals, created to deal with \"unlawful enemy combatants\", had no jurisdiction over detainees who had been designated only as \"enemy combatants\". He dismissed without prejudice all charges against Khadr. Also on 4 June, Captain Keith J. Allred reached the same conclusion in the case of Salim Ahmed Hamdan.\n\nThe United States Department of Defense responded by stating: \"We believe that Congress intended to grant jurisdiction under the Military Commissions Act to individuals, like Mr. Khadr, who are being held as enemy combatants under existing C.S.R.T. procedures\". That position was called \"dead wrong\" by Specter.\n\nOn 12 June 2008, the Supreme Court ruled, in Boumediene v. Bush, 5-4 that Guantanamo captives were entitled to access the US justice system. Justice Anthony Kennedy wrote in the majority opinion:\nThe Court also ruled that the Combatant Status Review Tribunals were \"inadequate\". Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen Breyer, David Souter and John Paul Stevens joined Kennedy in the majority.\n\nChief Justice John Roberts, in the minority opinion, called the CSR Tribunals\nSamuel Alito, Clarence Thomas and Antonin Scalia joined Roberts in the dissent.\n\nVincent Warren, the executive director of the Center for Constitutional Rights, the organization that initiated the action that triggered the Supreme Court ruling responded:\n\nIn January and February 2009, President Barack Obama's nominees for Attorney General and Solicitor General, Eric Holder and Elena Kagan, both testified they agreed the U.S. government may detain combatants in accordance with the laws of war until the end of the war, (this sidesteps the issue of deciding whether the combatant is a lawful or unlawful combatant and the need to try them). When asked by Senator Lindsey Graham \"If our intelligence agencies should capture someone in the Philippines that is suspected of financing Al Qaeda worldwide, would you consider that person part of the battlefield?\" Both Holder and Kagan said that they would.\n\nOn 28 October 2009, President Obama signed the Military Commissions Act of 2009 into law, which was included in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (). While critics said it is an improvement over prior versions of military-commissions passed during the Bush administration, it still fails to provide many of the fundamental elements of a fair trial.\n\nIsrael, since the 2002 \"Imprisonment of Illegal Combatants Law\", makes theoretical distinctions between lawful and unlawful combatants and the legal status thereof.\n\nThe United Kingdom Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) makes the distinction. The CPS conducted a \"through review of the evidence concerning the deaths of Sergeant Steven Roberts of the 2nd Royal Tank Regiment and Mr Zaher Zaher, an Iraqi national, at Az Zubayr, Iraq on 24 March 2003\":\nThe designation of some prisoners as \"unlawful combatants\", has been the subject of criticism by international human rights institutions; including Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and the International Committee of the Red Cross.\n\nIn response to the U.S.-led military campaign in Afghanistan, a legal advisor at the Legal Division of the ICRC, published a paper on the subject, in which it states:\n\nHuman Rights Watch have pointed out that in a judgement, the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia interpreted the International Committee of the Red Cross, \"Commentary: IV Geneva Convention Relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War\" (Geneva: 1958) to mean that:\n\nThis does not mean that the status of unlawful combatant does not exist because in the opinion of the ICRC \"If civilians directly engage in hostilities, they are considered 'unlawful' or 'unprivileged' combatants or belligerents ... [and] They may be prosecuted under the domestic law of the detaining state for such action\".\n\nCritics of the U.S. internment at Guantanamo Bay worry that the introduction of the \"unlawful combatant\" status sets a dangerous precedent for other regimes to follow. When the government of Liberia detained American activist Hassan Bility in 2002, Liberian authorities dismissed the complaints of the United States, responding that he had been detained as an unlawful combatant.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36598394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36598394", "title": "Virginia Environmental Law Journal", "text": "Virginia Environmental Law Journal\n\nThe Virginia Environmental Law Journal is a law review edited by students at the University of Virginia School of Law. The journal covers research and discussion in the areas of environmental and natural resource law, on a broad array of topics from environmental justice to corporate liability. The Journal is perennially ranked among the top five environmental law journals in the country. \n\nEstablished in 1980, the Virginia Environmental Law Journal is one of the oldest journals at the University of Virginia School of Law. It is entirely student-run. The Journal is closely tied to the law school’s Program in Environmental and Land Use Law, and it provides the Law School community with a forum for discussion of current environmental issues through its publication of legal scholarship related to the topic.\n\nThe Journal publishes the works of leading scholars, practitioners, and government officials, as well as exceptional student notes. \n\nThrough its annual symposia, the Journal encourages dialogue about environmental law and policy among students, professors, and the local Charlottesville community.\n\n"}
{"id": "3793128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3793128", "title": "Warth v. Seldin", "text": "Warth v. Seldin\n\nWarth v. Seldin, 422 U.S. 490 (1975), was a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court reviewed the concept of judicial standing and affirmed that if the plaintiffs lacked standing, they could not maintain a case against the defendants.\n\nThe plaintiffs brought action against the town of Penfield, New York, a suburb of Rochester, and against members of the Zoning, Planning, and Town Boards of Penfield, alleging that Penfield's zoning ordinances intentionally and wrongly excluded persons of low and moderate income from living there. \n\nThe not-for-profit housing organization Metro-Act of Rochester joined with several Rochester taxpayers as well as low and moderate-income individuals of various racial and ethnic backgrounds were considered jointly as party-plaintiffs to this action. However, the United States District Court dismissed the case, citing that the plaintiffs did not have standing to sue. The United States Court of Appeals affirmed the dismissal.\n\nThe court was tasked to determine if the American rules of standing should be considered part of the 'case or controversy' clause of Article Three of the United States Constitution or, apart from that, if the court can hear cases on \"generalized grievances\" or in the interest of third parties where none of the complainants have standing.\n\nThe Court found that as none of the plaintiffs could demonstrate any injury actually done to them by the defendants, the plaintiffs were third parties to the issue and had no standing to sue. The plaintiff's descriptions of their own meager financial situations and subsequent inability to live in Penfield were found by the Court to be the consequence of the economics and housing market of the area rather than any wrongdoing by the defendants.\n\n"}
